Mouse trisomy 16 (Ts16) appears to provide an animal model of Down's syndrome in that a portion of mouse chromosome 16 is syntenic with part of human chromosome 21. Trisomy 21 in human beings leads to the mental retardation of Down's syndrome and in middle age, to some presenile anatomic and clinical features of Alzheimer's disease. Neural tissue from aging Ts16 mice is unavailable, however, as Ts16 mouse embryos die late in utero. We studied these embryos looking at the ultrastructure of neurons from the hippocampus and dorsal root ganglion in normal control mice embryos (diploid) and in Ts16 late embryonic litter mates after day 15 of gestation. The organelles in the Ts16 neurons looked similar to those in control neurons, fixed and processed under similar conditions. No obvious neuropathological structures were observed. These results, when compared to reports on electrophysiological abnormalities of cultured fetal Ts16 neurons and on abnormalities in neurotransmitter markers in the Ts16 fetal brain, lead us to suggest that the mental retardation of Down's syndrome is likely to result from functional and chemical defects not directly related to abnormal neuronal ultrastructure. When related to fine structural studies of transplanted embryonic Ts16 hippocampus which have been maintained for long periods of time, these results indicate that the trisomic mouse brain would not be useful as a structural model for Down's syndrome and hence presenile Alzheimer's disease, as it is not associated with any detectable morphological abnormality.
Intracellular Ca2+ oscillations play an important role in the induction of alpha-MSH release from pituitary melanotrope cells of Xenopus laevis. Oscillatory, secretory and adenylyl cyclase activities are all inhibited by dopamine, neuropeptide Y (NPY) and baclofen (a GABAB receptor agonist) and stimulated by sauvagine. In this study, we test the hypothesis that these neural messengers regulate the Ca2+ oscillations via a cAMP/protein kinase A (PKA)-dependent mechanism. To this end, video-imaging microscopy was applied to single Xenopus melanotropes loaded with the Ca2+ indicator Fura-2. The cAMP-dependent PKA inhibitor H89 blocked Ca2+ oscillations as well as the stimulatory actions of 8-Br-cAMP and sauvagine. Treatment of cells inhibited by baclofen with either 8-Br-cAMP or sauvagine led to a reappearance of Ca2+ oscillations. A similar result was found for cells inhibited by NPY. Neither 8-Br-cAMP nor sauvagine induced Ca2+ oscillations in cells inhibited by dopamine. Depolarizing dopamine-inhibited cells with high potassium also failed to induce oscillations, but combining 8-Br-cAMP with membrane depolarization induced oscillations. It is concluded that sauvagine, baclofen and NPY work primarily through a cAMP/PKA-pathway while dopamine inhibits Ca2+ oscillations in a dual fashion, namely via both a cAMP-dependent and a cAMP-independent mechanism, the latter probably involving membrane hyperpolarization.
1. An identified dopaminergic interneuron (RPeD1) of the snail Lymnaea stagnalis, makes specific synaptic connections with a number of target (VI and VJ) but not non-target (VF and RPB) neurons in vivo. When cultured in vitro with both target and non-target cells, RPeD1 re-establishes synapses with target cells only. 2. To test whether exogenous dopamine exerts effects on the neurite outgrowth of both target and non-target neurons respectively, these cells were cultured in conditioned media (CM) in the presence of dopamine (10(-5) M). The growth of the non-target cells was severely restricted and retarded in the presence of dopamine. These data suggest that dopamine may regulate neurite outgrowth of non-target cells in culture. 3. The growth regulatory effects of dopamine on the non-target cells were blocked in the presence of a dopamine receptor antagonist (R(+) SCH-23390, 10(-4) M). These results indicate that dopamine-induced growth regulation of the non-target cells is mediated via dopamine receptors on these cells. 4. In the absence of conditioned media, dopamine was not sufficient to exert growth promoting effects on either target or non-target cells. 5. Taken together, our data show that dopamine differentially regulates growth of identified Lymnaea neurons in culture. Dopamine alone, however, is not sufficient to initiate and support neurite outgrowth from these cells. Rather, it functions to suppress the neurite outgrowth of the non-target cells, initiated by the conditioned media.
In this article we review recent developments in the field of &quot;first-&quot; and &quot;second-generation&quot; perfluorochemical (PFC) oxygen carriers. Particular emphasis is placed on the latest research and its implications regarding the clinical and experimental neurosciences. These compounds are ideally suited to the transportation of O2 within the vascular system. Two properties that facilitate their use in this respect are their very high solubility coefficients for O2 and CO2 and their biological inertness. Unfortunately, their widespread use has been limited by logistical difficulties associated particularly with their molecular behavior in vivo. However, advances in PFC technology have led to renewed interest. A potential role for second-generation PFCs in cerebral protection is exciting. Other possible significant applications are slowly becoming established in clinical practice. Currently under investigation are potential uses in the management of severe head injuries, radiotherapy or chemotherapy of malignant brain tumors, protection against air embolism, preservation of organs for transplantation, and as a tool in microsurgery of the retina or other parts of the CNS. Diagnostic neuroimaging applications could include the employment of PFCs as adjuncts in ultrasound, Doppler, computed tomography (CT), and magnetic resonance (MR) to achieve enhanced imaging and precise staging of inflammatory, neoplastic, and vascular disease processes. Research applications could include their use in magnetic resonance imaging and spectroscopy in assessing cerebral blood flow, local oxygen tension, and brain metabolism, in molecule-specific imaging, and as physiological markers of O2, ions, and pH.
Smelling an odour induces a pattern of sensations, images and memories which participate in identification. It was proposed that perceptual memory performances for odours could be inferred from the description of these olfactory representations. The subject was asked to elaborate an odour descriptor profile, and a short-term odour recognition memory task was chosen to test the individual perceptual memory performance. Two pattern-recognition methods based on artificial neural networks and discriminant analysis were carried out and allowed odour profile and perceptual memory performance to be related. Insofar as the subjects gave dichotomic responses in the recognition memory task, each response could be evaluated in terms of correct or incorrect responses. Simulations indicated that the olfactory recognition memory performance can be predicted in man from odour-elicited semantic profiles by using artificial neural networks. It was also shown that all semantic descriptors do not participate in olfactory recognition to the same degree. Low-level information, such as intensity, familiarity and hedonic judgements, did not allow the artificial neural network to predict the olfactory performance. By contrast, high-level information, such as gustatory, olfactory and visual evocations, allowed artificial networks to make such predictions.
OBJECTIVE: The aim of this study was to provide new information on the myoelectrical activation of the quadratus lumborum, the deep lateral and the superficial medial lumbar erector spinae, the psoas, and the iliacus muscles in various motor tasks. DESIGN: An intramuscular electromyographic study was performed. BACKGROUND: The contribution of individual deep trunk muscles to the stability of the lumbar spine is relatively unknown in different tasks, including the flexion-relaxation phenomenon. METHODS: Seven healthy subjects participated. Fine-wire electrodes were inserted with a needle guided by ultrasound. RESULTS: The highest activity observed for quadratus lumborum and deep lateral erector spinae occurred in ipsilateral trunk flexion in a side-lying position and for superficial medial erector spinae during bilateral leg lift in a prone position. Quadratus lumborum and deep lateral erector spinae were activated when the flexion-relaxation phenomenon was present for superficial medial erector spinae, i.e. when its activity ceased in the latter part of full forward flexion of the trunk, held relaxed and kyphotic. CONCLUSIONS: In general, the activation of the investigated muscles showed a high degree of task specificity, where activation of a certain muscle was not always predictable from its anatomical arrangement and mechanical advantage.
1. The induction of long-term potentiation (LTP) at excitatory synapses on CA1 pyramidal neurons occurs partly through an increase in the quantal AMPA current. It is also accompanied by an increase in the number of active sites. Any presynaptic modification, requiring the presence of a retrograde messenger, remains uncertain. 2. There are no definitive data that establish a causal link between LTP and the formation of memories. Pharmacological blockage of NMDA and mGLU receptors and genetic mutants with proteins deleted that are thought to be involved in LTP induction or maintenance or in the formation of memories have all linked deficits in LTP with impairments to behavioural learning, but these links are not necessarily causal. The development of tissue- and time-specific lesion of gene expression for multiple gene products may overcome the present limitations of gene deletion experiments and provide more revealing insights into the relationship between LTP and memory.
One of the adjunctive modes of diagnosing tuberculous meningitis (TBM) is to detect immune responses in the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) to the Mycobacterium tuberculosis antigen. Up to 70% of clinical TBM reveal the presence of antimycobacterial antibody by the enzyme-linked immunosorbant assay. Defining the specificity of this immune response by Western blotting on separated M. tuberculosis antigen has been attempted in this study. Only antimycobacterial antibody-positive TBM cases were included in the study. An analysis of 30 such TBM cases showed a major immune reactivity to the 30- to 40-kDa region (93%) while a lower degree of immune reactivity was seen to the 14-kDa region (87%) and to the 18- to 25-kDa region (60%). Grossly the antibody reactivity on Western blot correlated with the ELISA results. Assessment of antimycobacterial antibody in the neurologic control CSF samples of pyogenic meningitis [n = 10], cryptococcal meningitis [6], neurocysticercosis [28], neurosyphilis [8], viral meningoencephalitis [8], carcinomatous meningitis [8], iatrogenic meningitis [6], and nonneurological control CSF samples from patients undergoing spinal anesthesia [20] revealed the presence of antibody in the CSF of 2 of the 10 pyogenic meningitis and 5 of the 28 neurocysticercosis cases. A Western blot analysis of these 7 cases revealed immune reactivity to 30- to 40-kDa regions only in 2 cases (1 of pyogenic and 1 of neurocysticercosis). The remaining 5 CSF samples did not reveal any immune reactivity on Western blotting, although ELISA demonstrated antimycobacterial antibodies. The antibody response to M. tuberculosis lipoarabinomannan and 38-kDa antigen by ELISA revealed 70.58 and 41.17% positivity, respectively. Thus this study has demonstrated that, by Western blotting, the major immune response is to the 30- to 40-kDa region, namely, lipoarabinomannan. Further, this finding will be useful for specific immunodiagnosis of the TBM.
We explored the prevalence of respiratory dyskinesia (RD), diagnosed objectively using a spirograph, and the major risk factors for tardive dyskinesia (TD) and RD. A total of 258 inpatients treated with neuroleptics was interviewed, and TD was evaluated using the Abnormal Involuntary Movement Scale (AIMS). Movement of the chest and respiratory regularity were assessed on clinical examination. Spirographs of patients with suspected RD were recorded, and RD was diagnosed based on spirographic data and the concurrence of two investigators. The prevalence of TD in this study was 22.1% (57 of 258). Aging and organic brain damage (OBD) were confirmed as risk factors; female gender, mood disorders, and the duration of neuroleptic exposure were not. Ten of 28 patients suspected of having RD were diagnosed with RD on the basis of persistent respiratory irregularities without other physiologic causes. The overall prevalence of RD was 3.9% (10 of 258) and was 17.5% (10 of 57) among the TD patient population. Four of these patients complained of dyspnea, and three demonstrated grunting. RD was more highly associated with aging and OBD than with TD itself. The identification of risk factors for RD is not only helpful in planning prophylactic strategies, but also facilitates the understanding of the pathogenesis of this syndrome.

Recent research in urogynaecology includes major advances in our understanding of the structure and function of the urothelium and bladder wall. The control of the detrusor muscle and the bladder neck has been studied at a molecular level, and the response of host tissues to new treatments such as collagen implantation has also been investigated.
Metabolism of an atypical antipsychotic agent, 3-[4-[4-(6-fluorobenzo[b]thien-3-yl)-1-piperazinyl]butyl]-2, 5,5-trimethyl-4-thiazolidinone (HP236) by rats is described. HP236 was extensively metabolized both in vitro and in vivo. Metabolites were identified using electrospray interface-LC/MS (ESI-LC/MS) and 1H NMR spectroscopy. Protonated molecular ions, MH+, were observed for all the metabolites of HP236 using ESI-LC/MS. Tandem MS was performed on these quasimolecular ions to provide structural information. Structures of metabolites were confirmed by chromatographic and spectroscopic comparisons to synthetic standards. Metabolic pathways for HP236 both in vivo and in vitro included: a) cleavage of the thiazolidinone ring structure to give N-acetyl-N-[4-[4-(6-fluorobenzo[b] thien-3-yl)-1-piperazinyl]butyl]-2-methyl-propanamide, N-[4-[4-(6-fluorobenzo[b] thien-3-yl)-1-piperazinyl]-butyl]-2-methyl-propanamide, and N-[4-[4-(6-fluorobenzo[b] thien-3-yl)-1-piperazinyl]butyl]-acetamide; b) oxidation of the sulfide to give a mixture of sulfoxide diastereoisomers, 3-[4-[4-(6-fluorobenzo[b]thien-3-yl)-1-piperazinyl]butyl]-1-oxo-2, 5,5-trimethyl-4-thiazolidinone and a sulfone, 1,1-dioxo-3-[4-[4-(6-fluorobenzo[b]thien-3-yl)-1-piperazinyl]butyl ]-2, 5,5-trimethyl-4-thiazolidinone; and c) N-dealkylation at the piperazine ring to produce 3-(4-(1-piperazinyl]butyl]-2, 5,5-trimethyl-4-thiazolidinone and 6-fluoro-3-(1-piperazinyl)benzo[b]thiophene. Metabolites found circulating in the plasma of rats dosed with HP236 were identical to those produced in vitro using rat liver microsomes or S9 fractions; however, LC/MS analysis of rat urine extract showed that the metabolite profile was different than that obtained from plasma or from in vitro extracts. The metabolite resulting from the cleavage of the thiazolidinone ring, N-acetyl-N-[4-[4-(6-fluorobenzo[b] thien-3-yl)-1-piperazinyl]-butyl]-2-methyl-propanamide, was the major circulating metabolite in the plasma of rats dosed with HP236. Results from in vitro studies showed that the metabolite was also produced by incubating the sulfoxides and sulfone analogs of HP236 with rat liver microsomes. A mechanism for the formation of N-acetyl-N-[4-[4-(6-fluorobenzo [b]thien-3-yl)-1-piperazinyl]butyl]-2-methyl-propanamide from HP236 is proposed.

We have previously shown that an NPY antagonist decreases lordosis behavior and that this decrease can be reversed with NPY administration. The present experiments examined whether intracerebroventricular (icv) administration of NPY would facilitate lordosis behavior and whether it would increase feeding behavior in the female guinea pig. Additionally, we examined whether icv administration of a more specific NPY Y1 and/or Y2 receptor agonist would facilitate lordosis behavior. Although NPY (1 g) increased feeding behavior when it was administered to the lateral ventricle of ovariectomized (ovx) estrogen (i.e., estradiol benzoate; EB) and progesterone- (P) treated guinea pigs, it had no facilitatory effect on lordosis behavior at any of the doses tested (0.5, 1, 5, or 10g). In fact, the lower doses had a small, delayed inhibitory effect. NPY also had no effect on lordosis in females treated with EB alone. In contrast, the NPY Y1 agonist (Leu(31)Pro(34)) NPY significantly facilitated lordosis in ovx EB- and P-treated females. It had no effect in ovx females treated with EB alone. The NPY Y2 agonist NPY (13-36) had a slight, delayed inhibitory effect in ovx EB- and P-treated females. These data are consistent with the hypothesis that NPY can act at a number of receptor subtypes to affect lordosis behavior, and that NPY can facilitate lordosis behavior by acting at Y1 receptors. Furthermore, it appears that this facilitatory effect of Y1 receptors is an effect on some progesterone-mediated component of lordosis, as the Y1 agonist facilitated EB- and P-induced lordosis, but not that induced with EB alone.
5-Hydroxytryptamine (5-HT) is synthesized and secreted by thyroid parafollicular (PF) cells. As all PF granules contain 5-HT, it is released whenever PF cells secrete. Because 5-HT stimulates follicular (F) cells and can modulate their response to TSH, 5-HT has been proposed to be a paracrine PF to F cell transmitter. This role would require a thyroid mechanism to rapidly inactivate 5-HT. A 5-HT transporter (SERT) in the plasma membrane of serotonergic neurons inactivates neuronal 5-HT. We thus tested the hypothesis that this molecule is expressed in the thyroid. Messenger RNA encoding SERT was demonstrated in both the human thyroid and a rat F cell line (FRTL-5). SERT immunoreactivity was detected in rat F, but not PF, cells. Transporter-mediated uptake of [3H]5-HT by F cells arose early in development (E13 in mice) and was maintained in adult life in mice, guinea pigs, bats, and rats (FRTL-5 cells). These observations indicate that a functional SERT is expressed in the thyroid, not by the 5-HT-secreting PF cells, but by their putative F cell targets.
The release of POMC-derived peptides from the melanotrope cells in the pituitary pars intermedia of Xenopus laevis is regulated by multiple inhibitory and stimulatory neurochemical messengers. In this study we examined the role of acetylcholine (ACh) in regulating melanotrope cell activity. The origin of ACh was studied in in vitro biosynthesis experiments, where it was demonstrated that dissociated melanotropes can synthesize ACh. In addition, immunocytochemical studies showed the presence of the ACh-synthesizing enzyme choline acetyltransferase in the cytoplasm of melanotrope cells. Oscillations in the concentration of intracellular free calcium ions are thought to be the driving force for the secretion of POMC-derived peptides from Xenopus melanotrope cells. A technique was developed to study simultaneously calcium oscillations and peptide secretion from the same population of single melanotrope cells in vitro. ACh concentration-dependently raises the intracellular free calcium concentration by increasing both the frequency and amplitude of the calcium oscillations as well as the release of POMC-derived peptides. The actions of ACh on the melanotrope cell were mimicked by muscarine, but not by nicotine, indicating the exclusive presence of a muscarinic cholinergic receptor. Furthermore, selective muscarinic receptor antagonists showed that the actions of ACh are mediated through an M1-subtype muscarinic receptor. Immunofluorescence cytochemistry in combination with confocal laser scanning microscopy visualized muscarinic receptors on the surface of melanotrope cells. It is concluded that ACh stimulates the release of POMC-derived peptides from the Xenopus melanotrope cell in an autocrine way, acting via a muscarinic M1 receptor on the intracellular free calcium concentration.
To elucidate the roles of the autonomic nervous system in cardiovascular adaptation to microgravity, spectral analysis of heart rate and blood pressure variabilities were conducted during thermoneutral head-out water immersion in 8 healthy young subjects aged 23 to 31 years. In all subjects immersed up to the shoulder, the low-frequency (LF: 0.04-0.15 Hz) component in blood pressure variability and the ratio of LF power to high-frequency power (LF/HF ratio) in heart rate variability decreased, while the high-frequency (HF: 0.15-0.5 Hz) component of heart rate variability increased. Concomitantly, a decrease in heart rate was observed without significant changes in blood pressure during immersion. These results suggest that cardiac and vasomotor sympathetic nerve activities are suppressed and cardiac parasympathetic (vagal) nerve activity is activated during head-out water immersion.
Intracortical injection of iron ion has been shown to induce recurrent seizures and epileptic discharges in electrocorticograms. The importance of the effects of NO on seizure control systems and their regulation is suggested. In this paper, we examined the changes in nitric oxide synthase (NOS) activity in the epileptogenic focus induced by intracortical injection of iron ion at 5 min, 10 min, 1 h, 3 h and 3 days. Iron ion significantly decreased NOS activity in the cortex at the injection site 5 min, 3 h and 3 days after injection. These results suggest that the formation of an epileptic focus induced by iron ion is accompanied by decreased NOS activity.
Dramatic changes occur in neuropeptide expression in sensory and sympathetic neurons following axonal injury. Based on the finding that the cytokine leukemia inhibitory factor (LIF) plays an important role in mediating these changes in sympathetic neurons, its participation in triggering changes in sensory neurons was examined. By the use of transgenic mice in which the LIF gene had been knocked out, LIF was found to contribute to the induction of galanin expression in dorsal root ganglia (DRG) after sciatic nerve lesion. On the other hand, two other neuropeptide changes that occur in DRG under these conditions, the reduction of substance P and induction of neuropeptide Y, were independent of LIF expression. In the sympathetic superior cervical ganglion, transection of the postganglionic nerves close to the ganglion resulted in a rapid induction of LIF mRNA in the ganglion and in the lesioned nerve trunk. In contrast, transection of the sciatic nerve close to or distant from the DRG caused a rapid induction of LIF mRNA in the lesioned nerve, but not in the DRG. DRG were capable of making substantial amounts of LIF mRNA when placed in explant cultures, but, in vivo, only a slight induction was found even when both central and peripheral nerve processes of these sensory neurons were transected. These latter observations suggest that, in contrast to the superior cervical ganglia, the DRG environment inhibits the lesion-induced expression of LIF in vivo and/or explanted DRG produce stimulatory signals not found in vivo. Together with the data on the induction of galanin, these observations provide evidence that LIF, generated at a site at some distance from the ganglion, is involved in triggering part of the cell body reaction in sensory neurons.
A low dose of apomorphine (80 micrograms/kg s.c.), a mixed D1/D2 agonist that induces penile erection and yawning, increased the concentration of NO2-from 1.12 +/- 0.45 microM to 3.8 +/- 0.75 microM and NO3-from 5.53 +/- 0.82 to 11.25 +/- 2.30 microM in the dialysate collected from the paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus of male rats by in vivo microdialysis. The NO2-concentration was also increased by LY 171555 (50 micrograms/kg s.c.), a D2 agonist that induces penile erection and yawning, but not by SKF 38393 (5 mg/kg s.c.), a D1 agonist with no effect on these responses. Conversely, apomorphine's effect on NO2-was prevented by haloperidol (0.5 mg/kg i.p.), a mixed D1/D2 antagonist and L-sulpiride (25 mg/kg i.p.), a D2 antagonist, but not by the D1 agonist SCH 23390 (50 micrograms/kg s.c.), although all three compounds prevented penile erection and yawning. The apomorphine effect on NO2-, penile erection and yawning was also prevented by the nitric oxide synthase inhibitor NG-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester (200 micrograms i.c.v.). The nitric oxide scavenger haemoglobin (200 micrograms i.c.v.) also prevented the NO2-increase, but was ineffective against penile erection and yawning. In contrast, the oxytocin antagonist d(CH2)5Tyr(Me)-Orn8-vasotocin (1 microgram i.c.v.) and the guanylate cyclase inhibitor methylene blue (300 micrograms i.c.v.) had no effect on the NO2-increase, but did prevent the behavioural responses. We infer from this that dopamine agonists induce penile erection and yawning by acting on D2 receptors that increase nitric oxide synthase activity in the cell bodies of paraventricular oxytocinergic neurons projecting to extra-hypothalamic brain areas.
Using immunohistochemistry and in situ hybridization, the expression of galanin (GAL)/galanin message associated peptide (GMAP)-, neuropeptide Y (NPY)-, vasoactive intestinal polypeptide (VIP)/peptide histidine isoleucine (PHI)- and nitric oxide synthase (NOS)-like immunoreactivities and mRNAs, and NPY receptor mRNA was studied in normal trigeminal and nodose ganglia and 14 and 42 days after peripheral axotomy. In normal trigeminal ganglia about 11% of the counted neuron profiles contained GAL mRNA, 4% NOS mRNA, 5% NPY mRNA, 7% VIP mRNA, and 19% NPY receptor mRNA. Peptide mRNA- and NPY receptor mRNA-positive neuron profiles were small in size. Fourteen days after axotomy a marked increase in the number of GAL mRNA-(34% of counted neuron profiles), NPY mRNA-(54%) and VIP mRNA-(31%) positive neuron profiles, and a moderate increase in the number of NOS mRNA-(22%) positive neuron profiles were observed in the ipsilateral trigeminal ganglia. The GAL/GMAP, VIP- and NOS-positive profiles were mainly small, the NPY-positive ones mostly large. NPY receptor mRNA was expressed in some large neurons. In normal nodose ganglia, about 3% of the counted neuron profiles contained GAL mRNA, 3% NPY mRNA, 17% NOS mRNA and less than 1% VIP mRNA. Fourteen days after peripheral axotomy, a marked increase in the number of GAL mRNA-(78% of counted neuron profiles), NOS mRNA-(37%) and VIP-(46%) mRNA-positive neuron profiles was seen in the ipsilateral nodose ganglia. The number of NPY-positive (23%) neurons was moderately increased, mainly in small neuron profiles. There were no NPY receptor mRNA-positive neurons, either in normal nodose ganglia or in nodose ganglia ipsilateral to the axotomy. In contralateral nodose ganglia the number of GAL- and NPY-positive neuron profiles was slightly increased, and VIP cells showed a moderate increase. Immunohistochemical analysis revealed parallel changes in expression of peptides and NOS in both trigeminal and nodose ganglia, demonstrating that the changes in mRNA levels are translated into protein. Finally, although not quantified, similar upregulations of peptide and NOS mRNA levels were observed in both ganglia 42 days after nerve injury provided that regeneration was not allowed, suggesting that the changes are long lasting. The present results show that the effect of axotomy on peptide and NOS expression in the trigeminal and nodose ganglia is similar to that previously shown for lumbar dorsal root ganglia. However, no mRNA for the NPY Y1 receptor could be detected in the vagal system. In general the mechanism(s) for and the purpose(s) of the messenger regulation in response to axotomy may be similar in these different sensory systems (dorsal root, trigeminal and nodose ganglia).
In the present study, facial skin from so-called &quot;screen dermatitis&quot; patients were compared with corresponding material from normal healthy volunteers. The aim of the study was to evaluate possible markers to be used for future double-blind or blind provocation investigations. Differences were found for the biological markers calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP), somatostatin (SOM), vasoactive intestinal polypeptide (VIP), peptide histidine isoleucine amide (PHI), neuropeptide tyrosine (NPY), protein S-100 (S-100), neuron-specific enolase (NSE), protein gene product (PGP) 9.5 and phenylethanolamine N-methyltransferase (PNMT). The overall impression in the blind-coded material was such that it turned out easy to blindly separate the two groups from each other. However, no single marker was 100% able to pin-point the difference, although some were quite powerful in doing so (CGRP, SOM, S-100). However, it has to be pointed out that we cannot, based upon the present results, draw any definitive conclusions about the cause of the changes observed. Whether this is due to electric or magnetic fields, a surrounding airborne chemical, humidity, heating, stress factors, or something else, still remains an open question. Blind or double-blind provocations in a controlled environment are necessary to elucidate possible underlying causes for the changes reported in this investigation.
CNS trauma or disease induces a constellation of changes in the glia comprising the condition known as reactive gliosis. At present, little is known regarding the nature of the injury signals and the specific consequences of their actions. Ciliary neurotrophic factor (CNTF) induces acute phase proteins in liver and increases astrocytic glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) both in vitro and in vivo. The purpose of the present study was to establish whether CNTF induces other aspects of gliosis. Between 10 and 72 h after 100 ng of recombinant human CNTF was administered into the adult rat neocortex, alterations were observed in a region extending several millimeters in circumference from the injection site. Microglia in this region were more apparent and astrocytes were hypertrophic. By in situ hybridization, mRNAs for GFAP, vimentin, and clusterin were upregulated when compared to the control hemisphere (which received heat-inactivated CNTF). By immunocytochemistry, GFAP, vimentin, glutathione-S-transferase mu, S-100, and OX-42 were elevated by 48 h. By contrast, the oligodendroglial marker GSTYp, the neuronal markers MAP-2 and NSE, the intermediate filament nestin, and the stress protein alpha B-crystallin were unchanged. In addition, a greater than twofold increase in the number of proliferating cells was observed. Since CNTF induces swelling and multiple &quot;gliotic&quot; genes in astrocytes, increases microglial number, and stimulates cell proliferation, we conclude that CNTF is sufficient to induce multiple aspects of gliosis. These data are consistent with a model whereby CNTF (which is synthesized by astrocytes) would be released when the integrity of the astrocyte membrane is compromised, whereupon it would elicit an inflammatory response.
The primary objective of this study was to determine the pattern of motor neuron loss in thoracic spinal cord from amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) patients. A prerequisite to this objective was to examine control human spinal cord with the techniques to be used for ALS specimens. Combined choline acetyltransferase (ChAT) immunocytochemistry and NADPH diaphorase histochemistry (a marker for nitric oxide synthase) revealed a staining pattern very similar to that seen in other mammals. Stained cell groups were present in the superficial dorsal horn (labeled only by diaphorase), the deep dorsal horn (double-labeled), the intermediate region (double-labeled), around the central canal (mostly double-labeled), autonomic motor neurons (AMNs; either double-labeled or ChAT-positive only), and somatic motor neurons (SMNs; ChAT-positive only). These similarities indicated that most cell types previously described in other mammals are present in human spinal cord. However, the percentage of AMNs that were double-labeled was much higher in humans (94%) than in rodents (approximately 66%) or in nonmammalian vertebrates (essentially 0%). In ALS, extensive loss of SMNs is known to occur in cervical and lumbar enlargements, and similarly, our specimens revealed a degeneration of nearly all SMNs in thoracic spinal cord. In contrast, the average number of AMNs in ALS specimens was not significantly different from that in controls, directly confirming clinical observations suggesting that AMNs do not degenerate in ALS. Most importantly, the percentage of AMNs that were diaphorase-negative was not decreased in ALS, indicating that AMN resistance in this degenerative neurological disorder probably is independent of nitric oxide synthase expression.
Microglia express cytokines, major histocompatibility (MHC) loci, and several other immunologically important constituents. The aim of this study was to detect immunological responses of microglial cells following allogeneic dopaminergic transplantation using active and adoptive immunizations. Adult inbred Fisher 344 (F344 RT1) rats were unilaterally dopamine (DA) depleted in striatum by injection of 6-hydroxydopamine. The degree of degeneration was assessed by recording the rotational response to apomorphine. Fetal ventral mesencephalic tissue containing DA neuroblasts from Wistar-Furth (WF, RT1u) rat donors (9-12 mm CRL) were later implanted in striatum on the lesioned side. Lymph nodes and spleen cells were collected aseptically, resuspended, and diluted for isovolumetric injections. Animals selected for active immunization were injected intraperitoneally with varying amounts of WF lymphocytes. Animals selected for adoptive immunization (transferred immunity) were intraperitoneally injected with 10(8) F344 lymphocytes prepared from animals actively immunized 3 weeks previously. Monoclonal antibodies against CD4 (OX38), CD8 (OX8), CD11b (OX42), MHC class I (OX18), monomorphic MHC class II (OX-6), and ED1 and polyclonal antibodies against tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) were used for immunohistochemistry. We found that the degree of ED1-positive cell proliferation was well correlated to the immunization patterns. Groups that were actively immunized with or without prior adoptive immunization had a larger amount of reactive microglial proliferation. ED1 immunohistochemistry revealed patterns of immunolabeling of engrafted areas: 8-12 weeks after grafting in nonimmunized and adoptively immunized groups reactive microglial proliferation occurred only at the graft periphery. Active and adoptive + active immunization led to ED1-IR within the grafts themselves. At early stages nonimmunized groups had an ED1 pattern which was partially inside the grafts. At early time points nonimmunized groups contained ameboid microglial cells within the grafts which disappeared at later stages and were absent in the immunized groups. ED1-positive ameboid microglial cells within the grafts may be of graft origin and constitute a part of a continued normal development of the fetal tissue.
Neuropeptide Y (NPY) has been implicated in the hypothalamic regulation of reproduction and energy homeostasis. The perikarya located primarily in the arcuate nucleus (ARC) of the hypothalamus constitute a common source of NPY. Projections from these neurons along two distinct pathways, namely, the reproductive axis of the ARC--median eminence--medial preoptic area and the orexigenic axis of the ARC--paraventricular nucleus and neighboring regions, participate in regulation of these two neuroendocrine functions. Additionally, the NPY neuronal system within the basal hypothalamus is morphologically and functionally linked with galanin and the opioid networks which also play roles in the control of reproduction and ingestive behavior. Recent experimental evidence indicates that genetic, hormonal, and environmental factors that cause nutritional imbalance and metabolic disturbances, along with depressed pituitary gonadal function, produce alterations in the synthesis, storage, and release of NPY and in other connected peptidergic systems in the hypothalamus. The current findings summarized in this review support our concept that NPY may-be one of the essential messenger molecules that serve as a communication bridge between the neural processes that regulate reproduction and those that maintain energy homeostasis. Modification in information flow within this peptidergic network due to nutritional imbalance may adversely impact hypothalamo-pituitary-gonadal function.
Reproductive maturation and regulation is centrally orchestrated by gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH). GnRH produced in the vertebrate hypothalamus acts on the pituitary to regulate gonadotropins. In nonplacental mammalian species, it has recently been shown that a second GnRH gene is expressed in mesencephalic cells. Here, we report the cDNA sequences and expression patterns for two distinct genes encoding the hypothalamic and mesencephalic GnRH forms in the brain of a placental mammal, the tree shrew (Tupaia glis belangeri). The novel mammalian GnRH form, designated here as [His5Trp7Tyr8]GnRH (often called chicken GnRH II), is expressed in neurons of the mesencephalon and is the first nonhypothalamic form to be isolated from a mammal. Its peptide sequence is identical to the form previously reported in fish, amphibians, reptiles, and birds, revealing that it has remained unchanged for 500 million years. In contrast, the sequences of the hypothalamic GnRH decapeptides vary by as much as 50% across vertebrate species. The remarkable sequence conservation of mesencephalic GnRH suggests that it has been highly constrained throughout evolution, perhaps indicating an important, conserved nongonadotropic role. The discovery and localization of two mRNAs encoding distinct GnRH forms in an advanced mammal suggest that other mammals, including primates, may also have a second GnRH gene with expression localized in the midbrain.
Cell proliferation and hair cell addition have not been studied in the ears of otophysan fish, a group of species who have specialized hearing capabilities. In this study we used the mitotic S-phase marker bromodeoxyuridine (BrdU) to identify proliferating cells in the ear of one otophysan species, Carassius auratus (the goldfish). Animals were sacrificed at 3 h or 5 days postinjection with BrdU and processed for immunocytochemistry. The results of the study show that cell proliferation occurs in all of the otic endorgans and results in the addition of new hair cells. BrdU-labeled cells were distributed throughout all epithelia, including the primary auditory endorgan (saccule), where hair cell phenotypes vary considerably along the rostrocaudal axis. This study lays the groundwork for our transmission electron microscopy study of proliferative cells in the goldfish ear (Presson et al., Hearing Research 100 (1996) 10-20) as well as future studies of hair cell development in this species. The ability to predict, based on epithelial location, the future phenotype of developing hair cells in the saccule of the goldfish make that endorgan a particularly powerful model system for the investigation of early hair cell differentiation.
It has been proposed that alterations of excitatory and inhibitory amino acids play a role in the pathogenesis of hepatic encephalopathy in acute liver failure. To evaluate this possibility, in vivo cerebral microdialysis was used to sample extracellular concentrations of amino acids in the frontal cortex of unanesthetized rats at various times during the progression of encephalopathy resulting from acute liver failure. Liver failure was induced by portacaval anastomosis followed 24 hours later by hepatic artery ligation. Dialysate concentrations of amino acids were measured by high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) with fluorescence detection. Deterioration of neurological status was accompanied by two- to four-fold increases in extracellular glutamate, glutamine, and glycine; concentrations of gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) and taurine were unchanged. Densities of binding sites for the glutamate (N-methyl-D-aspartate [NMDA]) receptor ligand 3H-MK801, assessed using quantitative receptor autoradiography, however, were unchanged in the frontal cortex of rats at coma stages of ischemic liver failure. Increased extracellular glutamate concentrations were positively correlated with the severity of encephalopathy and with arterial ammonia concentrations. Such changes may result from an ammonia-induced reduction in the capacity for astrocytes to uptake glutamate. Increased extracellular glutamate in brain, together with increases in concentrations of glycine, a positive allosteric modulator of glutamate (NMDA) receptors, are consistent with increased NMDA-related glutamatergic neurotransmission in this model of acute liver failure. Increased extracellular glutamate, therefore, could contribute to the pathogenesis of hepatic encephalopathy and brain edema in acute liver failure.
Portacaval anastomosis (PCA) in the rat results in a broad spectrum of neurological and neurobehavioral changes, including alterations of circadian rhythms, impaired locomotor activity, and reflexes, as well as decreased threshold to noxious stimuli. In addition, following portacaval shunting, rats drink significantly more ethanol in a free-choice drinking paradigm. Available evidence suggests that many of these behavioral changes may be modulated by the endogenous opioid system of the brain. To evaluate this possibility, the effects of PCA on circulating beta-endorphin (beta-EP), as well as beta-EP content in the pituitary and specific brain nuclei, was evaluated using a sensitive radioimmunoassay. Furthermore, the characteristics and regional densities of mu and delta opioid receptors in the brains of PCA and sham-operated control rats were studied using an in vitro technique, as well as quantitative receptor autoradiography and the specific ligands 125I [D-Ala2, MePhe4, Met(o)ol5]enkephalin (FK 33-824) and 125I [2-D-penicillamine, 5-D-penicillamine]-enkephalin (DPDPE) for micro and delta sites, respectively. PCA resulted in region-selective modifications of beta-EP in brain, but not in pituitary or blood. Autoradiographic studies revealed a generalized decrease in mu binding sites (up to 70% decreases compared with sham-operated controls) and region-selective alterations of delta receptor densities following PCA. Portacaval-shunted rats drank significantly more ethanol in a free-choice drinking paradigm, an effect that was significantly attenuated by the administration of the opiate antagonist naloxone. Increased ethanol preference thus appeared to result from modifications of the endogenous opioid system in nucleus accumbens of rats following PCA.
Reepithelialization of artificial partial thickness wounds made in biopsies of human skin was determined after 3, 5, or 7 d of incubation, submerged or elevated to the air-liquid interface. The biopsies were reepithelialized within 5-7 d, with a more complete epidermal healing in wounds exposed to air. Both types of wounds showed similar time-course in deposition of basement membrane components, as detected by immunofluorescence labeling. Laminin and collagen type VII were deposited underneath the migrating tips, whereas collagen type IV was detected after reepithelialization. Markers of terminal differentiation showed a pattern close to normal in the air-liquid incubated wounds after reepithelialization. Involucrin was detected in the suprabasal regions of the migrating epidermis and thereafter in the upper half of neo-epidermis in the air-liquid incubated wound. Filaggrin could not be detected in the submerged wounds at any time during healing, whereas wounds exposed to air showed a well-differentiated epidermis by Day 7. Tritiated thymidine-incorporation indicated proliferation of epidermal and dermal cells during reepithelialization and a maintained viability, as shown by cultivation of endothelial- and fibroblast-like cells obtained from the dermis 7 d after wounding. Reepithelialization in this human in vitro model is supported by a matrix close to normal with the possibility of extracellular influences and cell-cell interactions and, in addition, the technique is simple and reproducible. Therefore, we suggest this model for studies of regeneration in culture and as a complement to in vivo studies on epidermal healing.
In blood from the portal vein of anaesthetized rats the levels of histamine and putrescine were 2-3-fold lower compared to arterial blood. Putrescine concentration was increased severalfold and the difference between portal and arterial blood abolished in animals pretreated with the specific diamine oxidase inhibitor aminoguanidine. Histamine concentration was 40% lower in portal compared to arterial blood in animals treated with the mast cell degranulator compound 48/80. In animals pretreated with aminoguanidine, compound 48/80 enhanced the level of histamine and no difference was observed between arterial and portal blood. The amounts of intravenously injected [14C]-labeled histamine was about 15% lower in portal compared to arterial blood. The uptake of [14C]-putrescine from the small intestine was estimated. In urine from animals pretreated with aminoguanidine the concentration of [14C]-putrescine was more than 40-times higher than in control animals corresponding to a calculated uptake of about 7% in aminoguanidine treated animals. Our results suggest that intestinal diamine oxidase clears the blood from diamines and prevents luminal uptake of putrescine.
Gap junctions permit the exchange of regulatory molecules between cells and play important roles during organogenesis. The expression pattern of the gap junction proteins connexin 26, 32, and 43 was studied by immunohistochemistry in the developing, adult, and injured rat teeth. Connexins 32 and 43, but not the connexin 26, were detected during the late stages of embryonic tooth development (bell stage). Expression of connexin 32 was predominant in epithelial cells, whereas connexin 43 was more widely distributed and found in both epithelial and mesenchymal cells. During cytodifferentiation (early postnatal stages), both connexin 32 and 43 were expressed in the epithelial-derived ameloblasts, synthesizing and secreting the enamel matrix proteins. In mesenchyme, connexin 32 was observed only in differentiating odontoblasts, while connexin 43 was expressed in both differentiating and functional odontoblasts, which secrete the dentin matrix. In adult rat teeth, connexin 26 and 43 were expressed in the odontoblastic layer at low and high levels, respectively, while connexin 32 was absent from odontoblasts. Electron microscopy showed that connexin 43 was distributed exclusively at sites of contacts between odontoblasts. However, double immunostaining combined with confocal microscopy suggested an occasional overlap between odontoblasts and calcitonin gene-related peptide-positive nerve fibers. Denervation experiments showed that the expression of connexins in dental pulp was independent of innervation, whereas in injured teeth connexin 43 was upregulated in pulpal fibroblasts. Finally, cultured dental epithelial cells expressed both connexin 32 and 43, and connexin 43 was detected in cultured pulp fibroblasts in vitro, thus mimicking the in vivo distribution pattern of connexins. These results demonstrate that connexins are involved in tooth development and suggest that a given connexin may have distinct roles during odontogenesis and tooth homeostasis.
Voltage-gated sodium channels are responsible for the initial depolarizing phase of the action potential. In hippocampal neurons cultured from trisomy 16 (Ts16) mice (a model for Down's syndrome), the maximum inward conductance mediated by these channels was reduced 47% relative to control diploid neurons. This reduced conductance was reflected in a 35% decrease in binding of radiolabeled saxitoxin, a sodium channel-specific ligand, indicating expression of fewer channels in these neurons. The mRNAs encoding the alpha and beta 1 subunits were, however, present at the same levels in Ts16 neurons and control diploid neurons. Thus, the altered regulation of voltage-gated sodium channels in Ts16 neurons is apparently a post-transcriptional event and possible mechanisms are discussed.
Brain tissue from 12 subjects with pure Alzheimer's disease (AD) and 21 subjects with senile dementia of the Alzheimer type (SDAT) was investigated for membrane lipids and compared with that in age-matched controls. In brain tissue from the patients with AD, phospholipids were significantly decreased compared with that from SDAT patients and controls, cholesterol was reduced compared with that in controls, and gangliosides were significantly reduced in all gray-matter areas investigated compared with those in both SDAT subjects and controls. A reduction in gangliosides also occurred in the SDAT group, but it was smaller. In the white matter, the pattern of changes was the opposite. Phospholipids, cholesterol, cerebroside, and sulfatide were significantly reduced in the frontal-lobe white matter in the SDAT group compared with that in age-matched controls and AD patients. Gangliosides in the cerebrospinal fluid also separated AD from SDAT and controls. The findings indicate synapse degeneration as an important pathogenetic factor in AD. This disorder should be separated from SDAT, in which white-matter degeneration appears to be more prominent.

We examined changes in proteinase activities in P19 embryonal carcinoma cells during retinoic acid-induced differentiation. The interleukin-1 beta converting enzyme (ICE)-like Ac-YVAD-MCA hydrolytic activity was increased about 6-fold by treatment with retinoic acid. This activity was inhibited by N-ethylmaleimide and Ac-YVAD-H but not by E-64, EDTA, PMSF, or amastatin. The ICE-like activity in P19 cells eluted as a single peak just after the void volume on gel filtration. No ICE-like activity was observed at a molecular mass of 30-50 kDa. Enzymatic purification, Western blot analysis, and an immunoabsorption study demonstrated that the ICE-like activity in P19 cells is caused by the proteasome, and is stimulated during retinoic acid-induced differentiation. The proteasome purified from mouse liver also cleaved Ac-YVAD-MCA. These results strongly suggest that the proteasome is a major ICE-like proteinase in P19 cells and may be involved in the neural differentiation and the apoptotic pathway.
Mechanical properties and isoform composition of myosin heavy and light chains were studied in hypertrophying rat urinary bladders. Growth of the bladder was induced by partial ligation of the urethra. Preparations were obtained after 10 days. In maximally activated skinned preparations from the hypertrophying tissue, the maximal shortening velocity and the rate of force development following photolytic release of ATP were reduced by about 20 and 25%, respectively. Stiffness was unchanged. The relative content of the basic isoform of the essential 17 kDa myosin light chain was doubled in the hypertrophied tissue. The expression of myosin heavy chain with a 7 amino acid insert at the 25K/50K region was determined using a peptide-derived antibody against the insert sequence. The relative amount of heavy chain with insert was decreased to 50% in the hypertrophic tissue. The kinetics of the cross-bridge turn-over in the newly formed myosin in the hypertrophic smooth muscle is reduced, which might be related to altered expression of myosin heavy or light chain isoforms.
Several histochemical and physiological studies in the literature suggest that ionotropic glutamate receptors are involved in various sensory and motor control mechanisms at the spinal level. The present immunocytochemical study used three specific antibodies to GluR2,4, GluR5,6,7 and to NMDAR1 to differentiate between the regional distribution of alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazole propionic acid (AMPA), kainate and N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) subtypes of glutamate receptors throughout the rabbit spinal cord. All of these immunoreactivities were prominent in the superficial dorsal horn and motor column. Each antibody gave rise to regionally specific immunostaining patterns but which were similar at all spinal levels. Numerous small neurons in superficial laminae were immunostained with GluR2,4 antibody while only neuropilar elements were immunostained with the two other antibodies. Cell bodies of the intermediate zone and fibres in the motor column were particularly densely immunostained with GluR5-7. Such an immunostaining pattern, which was particularly abundant with the GluR5-7 antibody, suggests the presence, at the spinal level, of an extensive population of neurons exhibiting a high density of kainate receptors. Immunostaining with NMDAR1 antibody was less dense in comparison with the two others and especially in the motoneuron area. The present results provide the first immunohistochemical comparison between the respective regional distributions of the three types of ionotropic glutamate receptors in the spinal cord. Their parallel distributions throughout the spinal cord support the concept of a tight functional cooperation between NMDA and non-NMDA receptors which has been extensively described for spinal events.

Photodynamic therapy (PDT) for the treatment of a variety of brain tumors, particularly gliomas, has been extensively investigated in laboratory studies and has been studied in clinical trials. The main advantage of PDT lies in its ability to select out tumor cells that are infiltrating brain parenchyma and that are responsible for local tumor recurrence, the major therapeutic dilemma in the treatment of gliomas. PDT has been shown to be safe clinically but adequate trials have yet to be undertaken to prove its efficacy and much work remains to be done to optimize treatment. The laboratory studies and clinical trials involving PDT in the treatment of cerebral tumors, particularly the commonest brain tumors, gliomas, are discussed.

Exercise intolerance is a common finding in mitochondrial diseases, including Kearns-Sayre syndrome (KSS), characterised by progressive external ophthalmoplegia, cardiac conduction defects and atypical pigmentary degeneration of the retina. Exercise studies were performed in a 32 year old woman with KSS who had received an atrio-ventricular sequential pacemaker because of continuing breathlessness, having presented with complete heart block requiring a fixed rate demand pacemaker 6 years earlier. Minute ventilation, oxygen consumption, and carbon dioxide production were measured at different workloads on 3 consecutive days by collecting expired air. Compared to controls, after exercise at a subanaerobic workload, heart rate and ventilation were exaggerated relative to both oxygen consumption and carbon dioxide production. The findings are consistent with the hypothesis that, in mitochondrial disorders, impaired oxidative phosphorylation leads to uncoupling of cardiac ouput and ventilation relative to muscle metabolic rate.
Human gliomas, including astrocytomas, consist of highly heterogeneous populations of cells that represent different stages of malignancy. Glioblastoma multiforme is the most highly vascularised class of solid tumour. In order to develop efficacious adjuvant therapies for gliomas the growth pathway(s) targeted must be common to all of these tumours. As angiogenesis is a requirement for all solid tumour growth, we have targeted this process in order to suppress glioma growth in vivo. We have applied antisense VEGF gene expression to disrupt the VEGF/VEGF receptor paracrine pathway in C6 glioma cells and, thereby, inhibit tumour angiogenesis. C6 glioma cells which constitutively express antisense VEGF sequences were demonstrated to have significantly inhibited growth rates when implanted intracranially. Antisense VEGF expressing tumours had a markedly lower level of vascularisation which was accompanied by an increased level of necrosis compared to control tumours. Furthermore, these data support the notion that VEGF is the sole factor required for tumour angiogenesis as other potentially angiogenic factors could not compensate for the reduced level of VEGF expression in the antisense-VEGF expressing tumours. Our findings also suggest that the inhibition of angiogenesis is sufficient to significantly suppress tumour growth and is thus an effective point for therapeutic intervention for gliomas and all solid tumours.
In recent years there has been a shift away from invasive monitoring, with more emphasis on the role of neuroimaging, in the selection of patients for epilepsy surgery. Although video-EEG is essential to confirm the diagnosis, and to determine the ictal onset, neuroimaging, in particular magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), forms the basis for selection of most surgical candidates. MRI, using visual analysis, is able to detect hippocampal sclerosis, the most common cause of temporal lobe epilepsy, in the majority of patients with this condition, with quantitative MRI increasing the sensitivity of this imaging technique. Other lesions readily detected on MRI include dysplasia, neuronal migration disorders and cavernomas. Studies have shown that the best postoperative results are achieved in patients with a lesion visible on MRI. Functional imaging, both single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT), in particular ictal SPECT, and photon emission tomography (PET), are important ancillary investigations providing valuable corroborative evidence of a seizure focus.

Intravenous flumazenil was administered to two patients with probable Alzheimer's disease. Neuropsychological tests were administered at baseline, immediately after drug administration, and at washout 3 hours later. Cognitive function was observed to decline in both patients with eventual return to baseline, which indicates an adverse effect of flumazenil. Tests of vigilance were most severely affected, which may have been related to an inverse agonistic effect of flumazenil in producing symptoms of anxiety.
Experiments were undertaken using cultured equine sweat gland epithelial cells that express purine receptors belonging to the P2U subclass which allow the selective agonist uridine triphosphate (UTP) to increase the concentration of intracellular free Ca2+ ([Ca2+]i). Experiments using pertussis toxin (Ptx), which inactivates certain guanine-nucleotide-binding proteins (G-proteins), showed that this response consisted of Ptx-sensitive and Ptx-resistant components, and immunochemical analyses of the G-protein alpha subunits present in the cells showed that both Ptx-sensitive (alpha i1-3) and Ptx-resistant (alpha q/11) G-proteins were expressed. P2U receptors may, therefore, normally activate both of these G-protein families. Ptx-sensitive, alpha i2/3 subunits permit inhibitory control of adenylate cyclase, and UTP was shown to cause Ptx-sensitive inhibition of adrenaline-evoked cyclic AMP accumulation, suggesting that the receptors activate Gi2/3. Experiments using cells grown on permeable supports suggested that P2U receptors became essentially confined to the apical membrane in post-confluent cultures. Polarised epithelia may, therefore, express apical P2U receptors which influence two centrally important signal transduction pathways. It is highly improbable that these receptors could be activated by nucleotides released from purinergic nerves, but they may be involved in the autocrine regulation of epithelial function.
This two-stage epidemiologic study was to investigate the prevalence and types of dementia among elderly people in the Saa-Min district of Kaohsiung City in Taiwan. In stage one, the Chinese Mini-Mental Status Examination (CMMSE) and Blessed Dementia Rating Scale were employed. In stage two, a comprehensive neurobehavioral examination and neuropsychologic tests were administered by neurologists and neuropsychologists. Dementia was defined by DSM-III-R criteria. The National Institute of Neurological and Communication Disorders and Stroke-Alzheimer's Disease and Related Disorders Association guidelines for Alzheimer's disease (AD) and the National Institute of Neurological Disorder and Stroke-Association international pour la Recherche et l'Enseignement en Neurosciences criteria for vascular dementia (VaD) were applied. A total of 1,016 randomly selected elderly people participated in phase one: 131 people with CMMSE below cutoff values participated in phase two, of whom 45 were confirmed to have a form of dementia. The prevalence of dementia in this sample was 4.4% (3.2% in men and 5.8% in women): 2.0% for those 65 to 74 years old, 8.3% for those 75 to 84 and 24.4% for those &gt; or = 85 years old; 6.0% for those who were illiterate, 3.3% for those who attended grade-school; and 2.8% for those who finished junior-high-school. AD (22 cases, 48.9%) was the most common cause of dementia, followed by VaD (11 cases, 24.4%) and mixed dementia (MIX: 5 cases, 11.1%). Old age and being female were significant high risk factors for AD. Medical history indicated that stroke and hypertension were significant risk factors for VaD. A relatively high prevalence of dementia was observed in this study, probably because we assessed neurobehavior in great detail. Although AD was the leading cause of dementia in the present population sample. VaD and MIX also comprised an important proportion, reflecting the high prevalence of stroke in Taiwan. Older women had high risk for AD, not for VaD; and those with a history of stroke and hypertension had high risk for VaD, not for AD.
cDNA clones encoding human neuronal nicotinic acetylcholine receptor alpha 2, alpha 3, alpha 4, alpha 5, alpha 6, alpha 7, beta 2, beta 3, and beta 4 subunits were isolated from brainstem, hippocampus, prefrontal cortex, substantia nigra, thalamus, and IMR32 libraries. Human alpha 2 and alpha 6 and full-length beta 3 and beta 4 clones have not been previously reported. Deduced amino acid sequences of the alpha 2, alpha 6, beta 3, and beta 4 predicted mature peptides are 503 residues (56.9 kDa), 464 residues (53.7 kDa), 440 residues (50.8 kDa), and 477 residues (54.1 kDa), respectively. These sequences show 84 (alpha 2), 87 (alpha 6), 89 (beta 3), and 84% (beta 4) identity to the corresponding rat sequences. The amino termini of the human alpha 2 and beta 3 mature peptides contain 23 and six additional residues, respectively, compared to those of rat alpha 2 and beta 3. Recombinant receptors were expressed in Xenopus laevis oocytes injected with in vitro transcripts encoding either alpha 7 alone or alpha 2, alpha 3, or alpha 4 in pairwise combination with beta 2 or beta 4. Inward currents were elicited by the application of acetylcholine (1-100 microM) and other agonists; these responses were blocked 65-97% by application of 10 microM d-tubocurare, confirming functional expression of human nicotinic receptors.
The relationships between range of motion, optimal length for force production (lo), and passive force provide useful insights into the structure and function of muscles but are unknown for most individual muscles. We measured these values and examined their relationships in five strap-like muscles of the cat hind limb: caudofemoralis, semitendinosus, sartorius anterior, tenuissimus, and biceps femoris anterior. The range of motion relative to lo was found to vary significantly between different muscles and even between different specimens of the same muscle. The passive force-length (FL) curve was found to be correlated with both lo and lmax (maximal in situ muscle length) but was correlated more strongly with lmax. The mean passive force produced by these muscles at lmax was less than 7% of estimated maximal isometric force, suggesting that passive force may not be important in these muscles during normal activation patterns. The variance in passive FL curves between specimens of the same muscle was found to be significantly lower when length was scaled by lmax as opposed to lo. These results suggest that lmax may provide a more useful scaling factor for generic models of muscle. However, the passive length-tension properties of mammalian muscle appear to reflect a complex mix of structures at both the myofilament and connective tissue levels that may differ depending on muscle-fiber architecture and perhaps on the history of trophic influences on a particular specimen.
Agmatinase, the enzyme that hydrolyzes agmatine to form putrescine and urea in lower organisms, was found in rat brain. Agmatinase activity was maximal at pH 8-8.5 and had an apparent K(m) of 5.3 +/- 0.99 mM and a Vmax of 530 +/- 116 nmol/mg of protein/h. After subcellular fractionation, most of the enzyme activity was localized in the mitochondrial matrix (333 +/- 5 nmol/mg of protein/h), where it was enriched compared with the whole-brain homogenate (7.6-11.8 nmol/mg of protein/ h). Within the CNS, the highest activity was found in hypothalamus, a region rich in imidazoline receptors, and the lowest in striatum and cortex. It is interesting that other agmatine-related molecules such as arginine decarboxylase, which synthesizes agmatine, and I2 imidazoline receptors, for which agmatine is an endogenous ligand, are also located in mitochondria. The results show the existence of rat brain agmatinase, mainly located in mitochondria, indicating possible degradation of agmatine by hydrolysis at its sites of action.
In response to axonal injury, noradrenergic sympathetic neurons of the adult superior cervical ganglion (SCG) alter their neurotransmitter phenotype. These alterations include increases in the levels of the neuropeptides, galanin, vasoactive intestinal peptide (VIP), and substance P (SP) and a decrease in the catecholamine biosynthetic enzyme tyrosine hydroxylase (TH). Previous studies have indicated that after axotomy in vivo, leukemia inhibitory factor (LIF) plays an important role in increasing the contents of galanin and VIP in the SCG. In the present study, by examining the time courses of the changes in LIF and neuropeptide mRNA and by using LIF null mutant mice, we have determined that LIF alters neuropeptide content in part by increasing levels of peptide mRNA. In addition, LIF also makes a small contribution to the axotomy-induced down-regulation of mRNA encoding TH and neuropeptide Y, both of which are normally expressed at high levels in the SCG. Finally, by using a LIF-blocking antiserum, this cytokine was found to regulate SP expression in an in vitro axonal injury model. Thus, after axotomy, a single factor, LIF, participates in the down-regulation of peptides/proteins involved in normal neurotransmission and the up-regulation of a group of neuropeptides normally not present in the SCG that may be involved in regeneration.
In vivo rates of arachidonic acid incorporation and turnover were determined for molecular species of rat brain phosphatidylcholine (PtdCho) and phosphatidylinositol (PtdIns). [3H]Arachidonic acid was infused intravenously in pentobarbital-anesthetized rats at a programmed rate to maintain constant plasma specific activity for 2-10 min. At the end of infusion, animals were killed by microwave irradiation, and brain phospholipids were isolated, converted to diacylglycerobenzoates, and resolved as molecular species by reversed-phase HPLC. Most [3H] arachidonate (&gt; 87%) was incorporated into PtdCho and PtdIns, with arachidonic acid at the sn-2 position and with oleic acid (18:1), palmitic acid (16:0), or stearic acid (18:0) at the sn-1 position. However, 10-15% of labeled brain PtdCho eluted in a small peak containing two molecular species with arachidonic acid at the sn-2 position and palmitoleic acid (16:1) or linoleic acid (18:2) at the sn-1 position. Analysis demonstrated that tracer was present in both the 16:1-20:4 and 18:2-20:4 PtdCho species at specific activities 10-40 times that of the other phospholipids. Based on the measured mass of arachidonate in each phospholipid molecular species, half-lives were calculated for arachidonate of &lt; 10 min in 16:1-20:4 and 18:2-20:4 PtdCho and 1-3 h in 16:0-20:4, 18:1-20:4 PtdCho and PtdIns. The very short half-lives for arachidonate in the 16:1-20:4 and 18:2-20:4 PtdCho molecular species suggest important roles for these molecules in brain phospholipid metabolism and signal transduction.
Synaptotagmin I, an integral membrane protein of secretory vesicles, appears to have an essential role in calcium-triggered hormone and neurotransmitter release. The large cytoplasmic domain of synaptotagmin I has two C2 domains that are thought to mediate calcium and phospholipid binding. A recombinant protein (p65 1-5) comprised of the cytoplasmic domain was previously shown to aggregate purified chromaffin granules and artificial phospholipid vesicles in a calcium-dependent manner. p65 1-5 may be able to aggregate membrane vesicles by a self-association reaction. This hypothesis led us to investigate the ability of synaptotagmin I protein fragments to multimerize in vitro. We found that p65 1-5, in the absence of membranes, was able to self-associate to form large aggregates in a calcium-dependent manner as shown by light-scattering assays and electron microscopy. In addition, a recombinant protein comprised of only the second half of the cytoplasmic domain, including the second C2 domain, was also able to self-associate and aggregate phospholipid vesicles in a calcium-dependent manner. A recombinant protein comprised of only the first C2 domain was not able to self-associate or aggregate vesicles. These results suggest that synaptotagmin I is able to bind calcium in the absence of membranes and that the second half of the cytoplasmic domain is able to bind calcium and mediate its multimerization in a calcium-dependent manner. The ability of synaptotagmin I protein fragments to multimerize in a calcium-dependent manner in vitro suggests that multimerization may have an important function in vivo.
Reactive oxygen species are believed to play a crucial role in situations where dopamine neurons die, such as in Parkinson's disease or during intracerebral transplantation of embryonic mesencephalic tissue. The present study was designed to address the question whether, and to what extent, the glutathione redox system is important for the viability of rat embryonic dopamine neurons in vitro. Furthermore, we studied whether the lazaroid U-83836E, a 2-methylaminochroman that inhibits lipid peroxidation, affects the survival of cultured mesencephalic neurons subjected to experimentally induced glutathione depletion. Glutathione depletion was achieved by exposing dissociated mesencephalic cell cultures to L-buthionine sulfoximine (BSO), an inhibitor of glutathione synthesis, at four different concentrations (1, 10,100, and 1,000 microM). Dopamine neuron survival was significantly reduced by 65-94% in a concentration-dependent manner by 10-1,000 microM BSO. The neurotoxic effects of BSO were almost completely prevented by supplementing the culture medium with 0.3 microM U-83836E. As assessed by HPLC analysis, BSO treatment was associated with a marked reduction of cellular glutathione content, and this depletion was not altered by the presence of U-83836E. We conclude that in the present insult model of severe glutathione depletion, the lazaroid can afford efficient neuroprotection that does not seem to be mediated by a direct interaction with BSO or glutathione, but rather via an independent pathway.
Following peripheral nerve injury, neurons respond with synthesis of proteins required for axonal regeneration. Newly synthesized membrane proteins, like B-50/GAP-43, are transported with the fast component of anterograde axonal transport. Structural proteins and calmodulin are transported by the slow component. Since B-50/GAP-43 can bind calmodulin, it has been hypothesised that B-50/GAP-43 may act as a carrier for fast anterograde transport of calmodulin, so that both proteins are delivered rapidly to the distally outgrowing axons ('the fast carrier hypothesis'). We have investigated whether this hypothesis is valid in myelinated axons of the regenerating rat sciatic nerve. Seven days after crush, the nerve was ligated to accumulate fast transported proteins. Nerve pieces were dissected proximal to the ligation and processed for immunofluorescence and quantitative electron microscopy by postembedding single and double immunogold labelling. By light microscopy, we observed a qualitative increase in B-50/GAP-43 immunofluorescence in the axonal element immediately proximal to the nerve ligation (termed 'accumulated') compared to an upstream site (termed 'regenerating') closer to the cell body. The immunofluorescence for calmodulin appeared to be the same at both sites. Using electron microscopy, we observed that organelles had collected at the 'accumulated' site, moreover the density of B-50/GAP-43 immunolabelling was significantly increased compared to the 'regenerating' site, where the axoplasmic structure was undisturbed. The increase in B-50/GAP-43 immunolabelling was largely associated with vesicles. The density of calmodulin immunolabelling was similar at both sites. Approximately 25% of the total B-50/GAP-43 was associated with vesicles of which only 15% also contained labelling for calmodulin. Thus, ligation of the nerve resulted in accumulation of vesicles, including those carrying B-50/GAP-43, largely without calmodulin. Therefore, contrary to 'the fast carrier hypothesis', the bulk of calmodulin is not co-transported with B-50/GAP-43 in myelinated axons of the sciatic nerve.
The effect of sigma (sigma) receptor ligands on natural killer (NK) activity was examined both in vivo and in vitro. Following injection of mice with sigma receptor ligands such as (+)-pentazocine, (-)-pentazocine, BD 1073, BD 1165 and BD 737, NK activity was measured in poly-I.C.-stimulated mouse splenocytes. (+)-Pentazocine reduced NK cell activity in a dose-dependent fashion, while the (-) enantiomer was inactive in this measure. For example, at a dose of 50 mg/kg, (+)-pentazocine suppressed NK activity (using effector to target cell ratios of 200:1, 100:1 and 50:1) by &gt; 70%, 24 h after injection while (-)-pentazocine was inactive. The other sigma ligands examined either slightly enhanced or had no effect on NK activity. Nonetheless, parenteral administration of the sigma receptor ligand BD 1165 blocked (+)-pentazocine-induced suppression of NK activity, while the opiate receptor antagonist naltrexone was ineffective. Addition of sigma receptor ligands (10(-11)-10(-5) M) to splenocyte cultures for 24 h did not affect NK activity. These findings indicate that while sigma receptor ligands are capable of modulating NK activity, this effect is not the result of an action on splenocyte sigma receptors, but may be mediated via sigma receptors either in the central or peripheral nervous systems.

In earlier studies of sporadic amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS), a disease of unknown etiology, the amount of metallothioneins (MTs), a group of small (6-7 kDa) metal-binding proteins, appeared higher in liver, kidney and spinal cord from patients than from non-neurologic controls. Immunohistochemically, the expression of MT in the central nervous system appeared limited to glia. Since the highly conserved MTs isotypes share antigenic epitopes, they could not be distinguished by immunological methods. It thus proved necessary to estimate the expression of each individual MT messenger ribonucleic acid (mRNA) by performing reverse transcriptase polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR)-mediated analysis of tissue samples. Tissues selected included liver, motor cortex and cervical cord at C6; MT mRNAs analyzed included MT1A, 1B, 1E, 1F, 1G, 2A, and 3. Also, special care was taken to avoid interference by amplification of the 6 MT pseudogenes. Except of MT3, already known as brain-specific, and MT1B which was not expressed in any tissue, mRNA levels of the other MT genes tended to be higher in ALS than in control liver samples, but the differences did not attain statistical significance. In the nervous system, the diverse MT genes were expressed over a greater range in ALS than in controls, but exhibited no change in a consistent direction. At the motor cortex, changes seemed to be less pronounced than at C6. MT3 was expressed in the motor cortex and the cord. The results provide no evidence for either the induction of a specific MT repertoire, or for the inability of glia to express any MT gene in ALS. Because the semi-quantitative RT-PCR technique does not permit detailed comparisons between the subtypes of MT expressed in the various tissues, the question whether a single inductor may be held responsible for the elevation of MT in the ALS liver and nervous system remains open. In conclusion, ALS tissue remains capable of expressing all the major MT genes. MT, present in protoplasmic glia, arises locally and is not secondary to increases of hepatic or renal MT. Because MT3 is also expressed by the normal and ALS spinal cord, it is a central nervous system-specific and not only a brain-specific protein. Thus, the excess of MT in ALS liver seems to be an effect of slower catabolism rather than faster synthesis of protein.
To identify potential molecular substrates for leukocyte trafficking and activation in multiple sclerosis (MS) brain, we determined the immunocytochemical distribution of the beta, integrin lymphocyte-function-associated antigen-1 (LFA-1) and its major ligands, intercellular adhesion molecule (ICAM)-1, ICAM-2, and ICAM-3 in MS tissue. Colocalization of these adhesion molecules with lineage-specific markers was analyzed by dual-labeling immunocytochemistry and confocal microscopy. ICAM-1 and ICAM-2 were detected on endothelial cells, and ICAM-3 immunoreactivity was restricted to infiltrating leukocytes. In control brain, 10% of glucose transporter-1 positive vessels contained ICAM-1 immunoreactivity on their luminal surface and 21% were ICAM-2-positive. A significant increase in ICAM-1-positive vessels was found in MS brains. This increase was greater in MS lesions (81% of vessels) than in nonlesion areas (37% of vessels). A significant increase in ICAM-1-positive vessels was found in encephalitis (55% of vessels) but not in Parkinson's (17% of vessels) brains. The percentage of vessels expressing ICAM-2 was not increased in MS, encephalitis, or Parkinson's brains. Both ICAM-3 and LFA-1 were detected on the vast majority of infiltrating lymphocytes and monocytes in and near MS lesions, and these cells were often closely apposed to each other. In addition, LFA-1 was detected on activated microglia located close to the edge of demyelinating lesions. ICAM-3-positive leukocytes were often closely apposed to LFA-1-positive microglia. These results suggest a role for ICAM-1, -2, and LFA-1 in the transendothelial migration of leukocytes into MS brain and a role for ICAM 3/LFA-1 interactions in the activation of lymphocytes, monocytes, and microglia in MS lesions.
This paper attempts to put together in the form of a flow sheet (Fig. 1) the several known alterations, both chemical and structural, of brain tissue in Alzheimer disease, which ultimately result in dementia. While most investigators in the field believe strongly that amyloid deposition is at the core of the disease, this writer finds that a more coherent, and thus more satisfying, schema can be based on the centrality of cytoskeletal abnormality. Not only do all four identified genes interact one way or another with the cytoskeleton, but abnormality of the latter leads to alterations of the Golgi apparatus with effects on protein processing, and on axoplasmic flow such that one can expect loss of synapses and subsequent loss of neurons with consequent disconnection and loss of neurotransmitters. Dementia is the result.
1. The rise time of activity-dependent extracellular pH shifts was measured in the CA1 stratum radiatum of rat hippocampal slices by recording pH-sensitive fluorescence of a fluorescein-conjugated dextran. Optical data were compared with simultaneous pH microelectrode recordings. 2. The pH shifts generated by CO2 or by stimulation of the Schaffer collaterals were paralleled by shifts in fluorescence emissions at 535 nm when the probe was excited with 490-nm light (delta F490). Emissions at 535 nm induced by 440-nm light were unchanged in these paradigms. 3. A train of three stimuli at 100 Hz was repeated at 30-s intervals and the stimulus-triggered delta F490 was averaged. The mean rise time of the delta F490 was 69 +/- 24 (SE) ms (range 20-200 ms, n = 6). The mean increase in emission was 0.75 +/- 0.22% of baseline, associated with a pH microelectrode response of +0.06 +/- 0.02 unit pH. 4. These data demonstrate that synaptically evoked alkaline transients develop within tens of milliseconds. The occurrence of the alkalinization in the same time frame as excitatory postsynaptic currents indicates that these pH shifts arise with sufficient speed to modulate synaptic transmission.
1. Whole cell recordings from dentate granule neurons in the hippocampal slice preparation reveal that (1 S, 3R)-1-aminocyclopentane-1,3-dicarboxylic acid (ACPD), a selective agonist at metabotropic glutamate receptors (mGluRs), inhibits a calcium-activated potassium current (IAHP) responsible for the postspike after-hyperpolarization. Inclusion of 1 mM of the Ca2+ chelator ethylene glycol-bis (beta-aminoethyl ether)-N,N,N',N'-tetraacetic acid in the patch pipette reduced the inhibitory action of ACPD on IAHP while having no effect on a similar action of serotonin (5-HT). Thus the known action of ACPD of mobilizing intracellular Ca2+ may be involved in this inhibitor action of ACPD. 2. Inhibition of IAHP is not secondary to effects on Ca2+ currents, because 10 microM ACPD, which inhibits IAHP by 95 +/- 5% (mean +/- SE), reduced the Ca2+ current by only 8 +/- 4%. 3. Activation of mGluRs accelerates the irreversible inhibition of IAHP that develops when 88 microM GTP-gamma-S is included in the pipette filling solution, whereas inclusion of 1 mM GDP-beta-S attenuated the inhibitory action of ACPD. These results indicate that the response to mGluR activation is G protein mediated. 4. Group I mGluRs, which includes mGluR1 and mGluR5, are G-protein-coupled receptors that are known to stimulate phospholipase C (PLC)-mediated hydrolysis of phosphoinositides to produce 1,4,5-triphosphate (IP3), which in turn is known to mobilize the release of intracellular Ca2+. The weak but selective mGluR1 agonist (S)-3-hydroxyphenylglycine (100 microM) completely inhibited IAHP, and the mGluR1 antagonist (S)-4-carboxyphenylglycine (500 microM) reduced IAHP inhibition produced by 5 microM ACPD from 73 +/- 6% to 22 +/- 4%. These results indicate that the mGluR responsible for IAHP inhibition has a similar pharmacological profile to that of those coupled to IP3 production. 5. The effects of agents known to interfere with IP3 production and action also support IP3 involvement in ACPD action. Neomycin (1 mM in pipette solution), which should reduce IP3 production through inhibition of PLC, reduced the ability of 10 microM ACPD to inhibit IAHP from almost 100% to 57 +/- 8% (n = 8). Heparin, an IP3 receptor antagonist that reduces Ca2+ mobilization, attenuated the inhibitory action 10 microM ACPD from almost 100% to 39 +/- 5% (n = 5). Heparin by itself increased the amplitude and duration of IAHP, suggesting that resting levels of IP3 are sufficient to suppress of IAHP partially. 6. In addition to the pool of intracellular Ca2+ that is mobilized by IP3, there is a distinct pool that is responsible for Ca(2+)-triggered Ca2+ release and is blocked by ryanodine or dantrolene. These drugs caused a small reduction of both IAHP and the inhibitory action of ACPD. Possibly the Ca2+ signal mobilized by IP3 is partially amplified by Ca2+ released from the ryanodine-sensitive stores. 7. Activation of PLC can also lead to the production of diacylglycerol and activation of protein kinase C (PKC). However, the inhibitory action of ACPD on IAHP was not affected by staurosporine at a concentration (1 microM) that inhibits both protein kinase A (PKA) and PKC and blocks the action of 5-HT to inhibit IAHP. 8. Activation of PKA by the adenylate cyclase activator forskolin led to inhibition of IAHP. Although activation of mGluR1 agonists can also stimulate adenylate cyclase and activate PKA, inhibition of PKA and the effect of forskolin on IAHP with the Walsh peptide did not affect ACPD inhibition of IAHP. 9. All of our results support the hypothesis that mGluR-mediated inhibition of IAHP is initiated by the production of IP3 and the mobilization of intracellular Ca2+.
1. The purpose of this study was to investigate a proposed role for the postsynaptic dorsal column (PSDC) pathway in mediating visceral nociceptive input into the dorsal column (DC) nuclei. 2. In one group of animals, the hypogastric nerves were sectioned, thereby restricting colorectal input into the cord to pelvic afferent pathways known to coverage on lower lumbar and sacral segments. Extracellular recording were made from 41 nucleus gracilis (NG) cells that responded to colorectal distension (CRD). Results reported are from 15 NG cells that were tested before and after the administration of morphine into the sacral cord by microdialysis. 3. The responses of 11 NG cells to CRD were dramatically reduced by morphine infused into the sacral cord through a microdialysis fiber. This reduction was reversed by an intravenous injection of naloxone. Microdialysis administration of 6-cyano-7-nitro-quinoxaline-2,3-dione (CNQX) or a lesion of the DC also abolished the responses of the NG cells to CRD. 4. Four NG cells that responded to CRD showed an increase in their background activity approximately 25 min after an injection of mustard oil (MO). This increase in activity was counteracted by morphine or by a lesion of the DC. 5. In a second group of animals, recordings were made from 28 PSDC cells in the L0-S1 segments of the cord. These units were antidromically activated by stimulation of the upper cervical fasciculus gracilis. The projections of five PSDC neurons into the NG were traced with the use of antidromic mapping. Results are reported for the responses of 12 PSDC cells to CRD and to cutaneous stimuli before and after morphine administration into the sacral cord by microdialysis. 6. Morphine given spinally reduced the responses of 12 PSDC cells to CRD. This reduction was reversed by an intravenous injection of naloxone. CNQX administered spinally also abolished the responses to CRD of the PSDC cells tested. 7. Four other PSDC cells were studied before and after an injection of MO into the colon. Their background activity started to increase within 25 min after the injection. Morphine suppressed this increase in background activity and this effect of morphine was reversed by naloxone. 8. The responses of NG cells to cutaneous stimuli were not significantly affected by morphine in the dose used. On the other hand, morphine significantly reduced the responses of PSDC cells to noxious cutaneous stimuli although this effect was not as dramatic as that on responses to visceral stimuli. 9. From the results of the studies described in this and the companion paper, we conclude that there is an important pelvic visceral nociceptive pathway involving PSDC neurons that synapse in the NG. The NG in turn activates neurons in the ventral posterolateral (VPL) nucleus of the thalamus. We presume that activation of VPL neurons by noxious visceral stimulation contributes to visceral pain sensation and thus that pelvic visceral pain depends largely on activity in the DC-medial lemniscus system.
1. Extracellular recordings were made from single neurons in the ventral posterolateral (VPL) nucleus of the thalamus in anesthetized male rats. VPL cells that responded to colorectal distension (CRD) were further tested with cutaneous and visceral stimuli before and after sequential lesions of the dorsal column (DC) and of the ventrolateral column (VLC). 2. A total of 105 VPL viscerosensitive cells was isolated. In this study, we report results from 27 cells that were tested for visceral responses before and after lesions of the DC and the VLC. 3. Ten VPL cells, isolated in 10 different rats, that responded to CRD and to activation of their cutaneous receptive fields with innocuous and noxious stimuli were tested before and after a lesion of the DC and again after a lesion of the VLC. Ten other VPL cells were isolated in 10 different rats. These were also tested for responses to CRD and to cutaneous stimuli spanning the innocuous and the noxious range before and after a lesion of the VLC and again after a lesion of the DC. 4. A lesion of the DC dramatically reduced the responses of VPL cells to CRD as well as to innocuous cutaneous stimuli. A lesion of the VLC reduced and sometimes abolished the responses of VPL cells to noxious cutaneous stimuli; however, its effect on the responses to visceral or innocuous cutaneous stimuli was minor when compared with that of a DC lesion. 5. The activity of seven VPL cells that responded to CRD and to cutaneous stimuli was observed after an injection of a chemical irritant, mustard oil (MO), into the colon. These cells showed an increase in background activity that started approximately 25-30 min after the MO injection. A lesion of the DC reduced the background activity of the cells to levels near initial values. 6. We conclude that the DC in the rat contains a pathway that is more important for transmitting visceral nociceptive signals to the VPL nucleus than are pathways in the VLC, including the spinothalamic tract. Conversely, the VLC is more important for transmitting nociceptive information of cutaneous origin.
1. The involvement of N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptors in thalamocortical transmission has been demonstrated in early postnatal development, but could not be determined so far in adult animals. We used thalamocortical slices from brains of mature mice to examine whether NMDA receptors exist in adult thalamocortical synapses, and what is their potential contribution to thalamocortical synaptic responses. 2. Thalamocortical fibers to the primary somatosensory area of the cortex were stimulated by an electrode placed in the ventrobasal (VB) nucleus of the thalamus. Horizontal intracortical axons within layer 5 were stimulated for comparison: a cut was made in the slice between layers 4 and 5 lateral to the recording area, and a second stimulating electrode was placed under the cut to activate these fibers. 3. Mg(2+)-free perfusing solution was used to enhance NMDA-receptor-mediated excitatory postsynaptic potentials (EPSPs). It led to synchronized population events that could be evoked by stimulating either in the thalamus or in layer 6. A short-latency, monosynaptic EPSP preceded the synchronous events in layer 5 cells. 4. Bath application of the non-NMDA antagonist 6-cyano-7-nitroquinoxaline-2,3-dione (CNQX, 10 microM) abolished only synchronized events triggered from the thalamus, but not intracortically. CNQX reduced, but did not abolish, the monosynaptic thalamocortical EPSP, and had almost no effect on intracortically evoked EPSPs. Focal application of the gamma-aminobutyric acid-A receptor antagonist bicuculline methiodide (10 microM) to layer 4 reestablished the appearance of synchronous events on thalamic stimulation. 5. Monosynaptic thalamocortical and intracortical EPSPs on the same cells were studied in the presence of normal Mg2+ concentration to mimic better the physiological state. Spikes were abolished by intracellular injection of the quarternary lidocaine derivative (QX-314) sodium channel blocker. EPSPs from both sources were reduced compared with control, but not blocked, after bath application of CNQX (10 microM). CNQX-resistant EPSPs of both synaptic tracts were evident at membrane potentials close to rest, exhibited strong voltage dependency, and were blocked by the NMDA antagonist DL-2-amino-5-phosphonovaleric acid (APV), suggesting that they were NMDA receptor dependent. 6. To confirm that NMDA receptors were indeed activated at thalamocortical synapses and not by antidromic activation of intracortical pathways, we used pressure microapplications of glutamate (10 mM) to the VB nucleus of the thalamus. The perfusing solution contained CNQX (10 microM) and cells were recorded with micropipettes containing QX-314. All cells that showed a monosynaptic response to electrical thalamic stimulation also exhibited a barrage of mixed synaptic responses to thalamic glutamate application. The amplitude of these synaptic events was dependent strongly on the membrane voltage, and the application of APV to the cortex abolished the events completely. 7. Our results demonstrate that, in adult animals, both thalamocortical and intracortical synaptic pathways utilize NMDA as well as non-NMDA receptors.
1. Single unitary activity in primate somatosensory cortex (SI) was recorded while monkeys maintained a range of static arm postures. Unit discharge was related to parameters defining the posture of the arm by multiple linear regression techniques. 2. Two monkeys were trained to grasp a manipulandum presented at locations distributed throughout their workspace. The discharge of single units in SI was recorded for 3 s while the monkeys maintained contact with the manipulandum and the mean discharge rate over this hold time was related to the location of the hand and to the shoulder and elbow joint angles of the arm. 3. Unitary activity of 171 neurons in the proximal arm region of areas 3, 1, and 2 was recorded during the task. Of the total, 78 neurons had activity that varied with the location of the hand in space. Neuronal discharge typically varied monotonically with the target location, reaching a maximum at the borders of the work-space. The discharge rate in most of these neurons varied with both shoulder and elbow angles. 4. Discharge rate was related to the hand's location along three axes by means of a polynomial fit. In approximately half of the neurons, activity varied significantly only for displacements along a single axis in space. However, many neurons exhibited nonlinear relations between hand location along this preferred axis and discharge rate. Discharge rate did not vary for displacements of the hand in the plane perpendicular to this preferred axis (null plane). 5. In other neurons, discharge rate varied for hand displacements in a plane, i.e., along two perpendicular axes. Displacements of the hand along the axis perpendicular to this plane (null axis) did not affect the discharge rate. In only a small minority of neurons did discharge rate vary for hand displacements along all three axes in space. 6. The distribution of the sensitivity of the neural population to hand displacements along arbitrary directions in space was not uniform. On average, hand displacement along a vertical axis led to the smallest modulation of neural discharge, and displacement of the hand along the anteroposterior direction led to the largest modulation of activity.
1. Three parallel maps of the distribution of tuberous electroreceptor inputs are found in the medullary electrosensory lateral line lobe (ELL) of weakly electric fish. Pyramidal cells in each map are known to respond differentially to the frequency of amplitude modulations (AMs) of external electric fields in vivo. We used an in vitro ELL slice preparation of Apteronotus leptorhynchus to compare the characteristics of spontaneously active single units across the three tuberous maps. It was our objective to determine whether spontaneous bursting activity of pyramidal cells in each map correlates with the known AM frequency selectivities of pyramidal cells in vivo. 2. Single-unit discharges were recorded from the pyramidal cell layer of the centromedial segment (CMS), centrolateral segment (CLS), and lateral segment (LS) of the ELL. Stochastic analysis of interspike intervals (ISIs) was used to identify bursting and nonbursting unit activity, and to separately analyze intra- and interburst ISIs. Four ISI patterns were identified as 1) bursting, 2) regular spiking, 3) irregular spiking, and 4) highly irregular spiking. This work focuses primarily on the characteristics of bursting units across the ELL segments. 3. Spontaneous bursting discharge was identified in all three maps (68 of 97 units), with several characteristics changing in a gradual manner across the maps. The coefficient of variation (CV) of ISIs and intraburst ISIs decreased significantly from the CMS to the LS, whereas the CV of burst periods increased significantly from the CMS to the LS. Autocorrelations and power spectral density analysis identified units discharging in an oscillatory manner with the following ratio: CMS, 75%; CLS, 4%; LS, 8%. 4. The mean period of spike bursts decreased significantly across the segments (CMS, 2.7 s; CLS, 1.2 s; LS, 1.1 s) primarily because of a shortening of mean burst duration (CMS, 1.0 s; CLS, 0.1 s; LS, 0.05 s). The average number of spikes per burst decreased significantly across the maps (CMS, 61; CLS, 8; LS, 8), whereas the average frequency of spikes per burst increased (CMS, 90 Hz; CLS, 130 Hz; LS, 178 Hz), mainly through an increase in the maximal frequencies attained by units within each map. 5. Bursts in the CMS were unstructured in that the intraburst ISIs were serially independent, whereas for many units in the CLS and especially the LS there were serial dependencies of successive spikes, with alternating short and long ISIs during the burst. 6. These data reveal that the characteristics of bursting unit activity differ between the CMS, CLS, and LS maps in vitro, implying a modulation of the factors underlying burst discharge across multiple sensory maps. Because the pattern of change in burst activity between these maps parallels that of pyramidal cell AM frequency selectivity in vivo, oscillatory and burst discharge may represent the cellular mechanism used to tune these cells to specific frequencies of afferent input during electrolocation and electrocommunication.
1. The influence of age on striatal neuron Ca2+ physiology was studied through an analysis of intracellularly recorded Ca(2+)-mediated plateau potentials. In vitro brain slices from young and aged rats were treated with the K+ channel blocker tetraethylammonium (30 mM) to facilitate the expression of plateau potentials. A sample of neurons was also filled with biocytin and post hoc correlations were performed between morphology and physiology. 2. Testing of sampling parameters in neurons from young rats revealed that tetrodotoxin did not affect the amplitude or duration of plateau potentials. The membrane potential induced during plateau testing and the rate of plateau potential generation, however, had to be held constant because these variables affected plateau potential duration. 3. A significant age-related decrease was found in the duration of Ca(2+)-mediated plateau potentials that could not be explained by alterations in the activation or inactivation properties of the plateau potential. Investigation into relationships between cell morphology and plateau potential duration revealed a number of correlations. Soma size and dendritic length were correlated with plateau potential duration, independent of age (hierarchical regression), and an age-related decrease in dendritic length but not in soma size was found. Spine density and plateau potential duration were also correlated, but the significance depended on the variance associated with age. These data indicate that the extent of somadendritic membrane (including spines) affects plateau potential duration in striatal neurons and that dendrite and spine loss in aged animals may contribute to age-related decreases in plateau potential duration. 4. The response to replacement of Ca2+ with Ba2+ was age dependent, with Ba2+ causing a greater increase in the duration of plateau potentials in young neurons. These data rule out an increase in Ca(2+)-mediated inactivation of Ca2+ channels as a primary cause for the shortening of plateau potentials in aged neurons. Our morphological findings suggest that dendritic regression in aged neurons may have reduced the number of Ca2+ channels participating in plateau potential generation, but other mechanisms related to changes in the type of Ca2+ channel expressed and possible differences in their inactivation kinetics may also contribute to the age-related change in plateau potential duration.
The present study assessed Pavlovian eyeblink (EB) conditioning, using tones and periorbital shock as the conditioned and unconditioned stimuli (CS and US), and nictitating membrane (NM) conditioning, using tones and airpuffs as the CS and US. During each experiment, CS-evoked changes in multiple-unit activity (MUA) in the medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC) were recorded. Concomitant heart rate (HR) conditioned responses (CRs) were also recorded. A nonassociative control group received explicitly unpaired presentations of the CS and US in each experiment. Increases in both NM and EB CRs occurred over sessions in the paired, but not the unpaired, groups. Decelerative HR CRs also occurred in the eyeshock, but not the airpuff, group. Although tone-evoked increases in neuronal activity were obtained during 10 initial tone-alone presentations in all groups, this activity habituated over trials. CS-evoked increases in neuronal activity also occurred, but this activity was considerably greater in the group that received periorbital shock as the US. During subsequent extinction trials, decreases in tone-evoked neuronal activity occurred in this group, compared with the previous CS/US paired trials. CS-evoked MUA increases were minimal during all except the pretraining phase of the study in the CS/US unpaired control groups and in the paired airpuff group. These findings show that neuronal activity during associative learning occurs in the mPFC during Pavlovian EB, as well as HR conditioning, but this activity apparently reflects an affective component to learning that is only indirectly related to skeletal conditioning.
Neurons of neocortical layers II-VI in the dorsomedial cortex of the mouse arise in the pseudostratified ventricular epithelium (PVE) through 11 cell cycles over the six embryonic days 11-17 (E11-E17). The present experiments measure the proportion of daughter cells that leave the cycle (quiescent or Q fraction or Q) during a single cell cycle and the complementary proportion that continues to proliferate (proliferative or P fraction or P; P = 1 - Q). Q and P for the PVE become 0.5 in the course of the eighth cycle, occurring on E14, and Q rises to approximately 0.8 (and P falls to approximately 0.2) in the course of the 10th cycle occurring on E16. This indicates that early in neuronogenesis, neurons are produced relatively slowly and the PVE expands rapidly but that the reverse happens in the final phase of neuronogenesis. The present analysis completes a cycle of analyses that have determined the four fundamental parameters of cell proliferation: growth fraction, lengths of cell cycle, and phases Q and P. These parameters are the basis of a coherent neuronogenetic model that characterizes patterns of growth of the PVE and mathematically relates the size of the initial proliferative population to the neuronal population of the adult neocortex.
This study examined the effects of substance P (SP) and calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) on synaptic transmission in a pontine slice containing the parabrachial nucleus (PBN). Stimulation of the ventral, external lateral portion of the PBN elicited glutamate-mediated EPSCs in cells recorded using the nystatin perforated-patch recording technique in the external lateral, external medial, and central lateral subnuclei of the PBN. Bath application of SP or CGRP dose-dependently and reversibly attenuated the evoked EPSC. The attenuation of the EPSC induced by both of these peptides was not accompanied by changes in input resistance of PBN cells over a wide voltage range, nor did these peptides alter the inward current induced by a brief bath application of AMPA. The combined application of subthreshold concentrations of these peptides revealed a synergistic interaction in reducing the evoked EPSC. The substance P neurokinin-1 receptor antagonist CGP49823 completely and reversibly blocked both the SP- and the CGRP-induced attenuation of the EPSC. However, the rat CGRP receptor antagonist human-CGRP8-37 did not block the actions of CGRP or SP on the EPSC. Using a metabolically stable analog of SP, SP (5-11), or an endopeptidase inhibitor, phosphoramidon, we were able to demonstrate that CGRP enhances the SP effect by inhibiting an SP endopeptidase. Application of phosphoramidon also revealed an endogenous SP &quot;tone&quot; apparently made effective by blockade of the endopeptidase. These results suggest that SP (and CGRP indirectly through an inhibition of the SP endopeptidase) acts on presynaptic NK-1 receptors to cause an inhibition of excitatory transmission in the PBN. These results indicate an important role of endopeptidases in regulating synaptic modulation by peptides.
Parkinson's disease (PD) is characterized by degeneration of dopamine (DA)-containing nigro-striatal neurons. Loss of the antioxidant glutathione (GSH) has been implicated in the pathogenesis of PD. Previously, we showed that the oxidant hydrogen peroxide inhibits vesicular uptake of DA in nigro-striatal neurons. Hydrogen peroxide is scavenged by GSH and, therefore, we investigated a possible link between the process of vesicular storage of DA and GSH metabolism. For this purpose, we used rat pheochromocytoma-derived PC12 cells, a model system applied extensively for studying monoamine storage mechanisms. We show that depletion of endogenous DA stores with reserpine was accompanied in PC12 cells by a long-lasting, significant increase in GSH content the extent of which appeared to be inversely related to the rate of GSH synthesis. A similar increase in GSH content was observed after depletion of DA stores with the tyrosine hydroxylase inhibitor alpha-methyl-p-tyrosine. In the presence of alpha-methyl-p-tyrosine, refilling of the DA stores by exogenous DA reduced GSH content back to control level. Lowering of PC12 GSH content, via blockade of its synthesis with buthionine sulfoximine, however, led to a significantly decreased accumulation of exogenous [3H]DA without affecting uptake of the acetylcholine precursor [14C]choline. These data suggest that GSH is involved in the granular storage of DA in PC12 cells and that, considering the molecular characteristics of the granular transport system, it is likely that GSH is used to protect susceptible parts of this system against (possibly DA-induced) oxidative damage.
There is increasing evidence that certain mRNAs are present in dendrites and can be translated there. The present study uses two strategies to evaluate whether dendrites also possess the machinery for protein glycosylation. First, precursor labeling techniques were used to conjunction with autoradiography to visualize glycosyltransferase activities that are characteristic of the rough endoplasmic reticulum (RER) (mannose) or the Golgi apparatus (GA) (galactose and fucose) in dendrites that had been separated from their cell bodies and in intact neurons treated with brefeldin A or low temperature. Second, immunocytochemical techniques were used to define the subcellular distribution of proteins that are considered markers of the RER (ribophorin I) and GA (p58, alpha-mannosidase II, galactosyltransferase, and TGN38/41). Autoradiographic analysis revealed that isolated dendrites incorporated sugar precursors in a tunicamycin-sensitive and protein synthesis-dependent manner. Moreover, when intact neurons were pulse-labeled with 3H-labeled sugars at low temperature or after treatment with brefeldin A, labeling was distributed over proximal and sometimes distal dendrites. Immunolabeling for RER markers was predominantly localized in cell bodies but extended for a considerable distance into dendrites of all neurons. Immunolabeling for GA markers was confined to the cell body in approximately 70% of the neurons, but in 30% of the neurons, the staining extended into proximal and middle dendrites. These results indicate that the machinery for glycosylation extends well into dendrites in many neurons.
Studies have suggested that an increase in intracellular [Ca2+] is necessary for the induction of both long-term potentiation (LTP) and long-term depression (LTD) of synaptic transmission, and that release of Ca2+ from intracellular storage pools can be necessary to induce LTP. We investigated whether release of Ca2+ from intracellular stores also is required for the induction of LTD at Schaffer collateral-CA1 synapses in hippocampal slices. Both thapsigargin (1 microM) and cyclopiazonic acid (1 microM), compounds that deplete all intracellular Ca2+ pools by blocking LTP-dependent Ca2+ uptake into intracellular compartments, blocked the induction, but not maintenance, of LTD by low-frequency stimulation (LFS) (1 Hz/15 min) without affecting baseline synaptic transmission. Washout of the reversible inhibitor cyclopiazonic acid restored the ability to induce LTD. In contrast, thapsigargin did not block depotentiation of LTP by 1 Hz LFS, suggesting that LTP causes a reduction in the threshold [Ca2+] necessary for LTD. Selective depletion of the ryanodine receptor-gated Ca2+ pool by bath application of ryanodine (10 microM) also blocked the induction of LTD, indicating a requirement for Ca(2+)-induced Ca2+ release. Impalement of CA1 pyramidal neurons with microelectrodes containing thapsigargin (500 nM to 200 microM) prevented the induction of LTD at synapses on that neuron without blocking LTD in the rest of the slice. In contrast, similar filling of CA1 pyramidal neurons with ryanodine (2 microM to 5 mM) did not block the induction of LTD. From these data, we conclude that the induction of LTD requires release of Ca2+ both from a presynaptic ryanodine-sensitive pool and from postsynaptic (presumably IP3-gated) stores.
Parkinson's disease is a degenerative neurologic disorder that currently affects half a million Americans. There is no known medical treatment that stops or reverses the dopaminergic neuronal degeneration that causes the symptoms. Investigators are searching for new surgical treatments that may provide better control of symptoms for longer periods of time. Reinnervating the basal ganglia with dopaminergic neurons is the theory behind fetal neural tissue transplantation. A review of the clinical trials of fetal neural tissue transplants performed in Mexico, Sweden, England and the United States shows some improvement in motor function in patients with severe idiopathic Parkinson's disease. Comparing the results of the different clinical trials is difficult due to a number of varying factors between the groups. There is still no consensus regarding patient selection, optimal fetal tissue source, optimal site of implantation, the use of immunosuppression or optimal method of assessing patient response. Much research is still required before fetal neural tissue transplantation can be offered as a therapeutic option for patients with Parkinson's disease.
The neurotrophin tyrosine kinase receptors trkA, trkB, and trkC have been isolated and sequenced from several mammalian species. Their cognate ligands nerve growth factor (NGF), brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF), neurotrophin-4 (NT-4), and neurotrophin-3 (NT-3) act as survival and trophic factors for neurons in the peripheral nervous system (PNS). In this study we have focused on the isolation and expression of the chicken trkA homologue. In addition to a near full-length cDNA sequence described, including an extracellular six amino-acid motif earlier found in neuronal TrkA in human and rat, a novel insert of 150 base pairs (bp) between subdomains IX and X in the otherwise well-conserved intracellular kinase domain is reported. Phylogenetic analysis showed the relationship between chicken trkA and the mammalian trkA receptors. Comparisons of the extracellular domains showed some amino-acid motifs of putative NGF binding function to be well conserved in chicken TrkA. The early expression of trkA mRNA, including the alternatively spliced insert form, was localized by in situ hybridization. As early as embryonal day 3 (E3), trkA mRNA is expressed in the condensing dorsal root ganglia, and at E4 distinct trkA mRNA expression appears in the primary sympathetic chain ganglia. Finally, using a reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) approach, we found that among several tested growth factors only fibroblast growth factor-2 (FGF-2) upregulated trkA mRNA expression in E9 sympathetic ganglion explants. This upregulation of trkA was corroborated by subsequent NGF-stimulated fiber outgrowth.
How multiple mature phenotypic traits are regulated in developing neurons remains a central problem in developmental neurobiology. Mature sympathetic neurons express general neuronal epitopes, including neuron specific tubulin (NST) as well as markers involved in neurotransmitter synthesis including tyrosine hydroxylase (TH). To investigate the relationship between neuronal differentiation and neurotransmitter development, the order of appearance of NST and TH was determined in both chick and rat embryonic sympathetic ganglia by double-label immunohistochemistry. In differentiated ganglia, these two markers were expressed in virtually all sympathetic neurons examined. By contrast, at early stages of embryonic development in both chick and rat, sympathetic ganglia contained many NST immunoreactive (IR) cells, but few precursors were TH-IR. With further development, more NST-IR cells were also TH-IR, and these two markers gradually became coexpressed with subsequent development. These data provide evidence that general neuronal and neurotransmitter differentiation events are separable and independently regulated during cellular diversification in the adrenergic lineage.
We have previously reported the production of monoclonal antibody 4C5 that recognizes a cell surface neuron specific antigen, the 4C5 antigen (Thomaidou and Patsavoudi: Neuroscience 53:813-827, 1993). Antibody perturbation experiments have suggested that the 4C5 antigen is involved in granule cell migration processes in vitro (Thomaidou et al: J Neurochem 64:1937-1944, 1995). In the present study, we have used monoclonal antibody 4C5 to investigate the cellular distribution and the expression of the corresponding antigen during development, and after injury of the rat sciatic nerve. Immunocytochemistry revealed presence of the protein both in myelin and non-myelin forming Schwann cells. Western blot analysis showed that monoclonal antibody 4C5 recognizes the same 94 kdalton polypeptide in the sciatic nerve as in the brain. Immunocytochemical analysis revealed an age-dependent decline of the 4C5 antigen expression. Moreover, following adult sciatic nerve crush, 4C5 immunoreactivity becomes intense in Schwann cells of the distal segment, as early as 4 days after injury and remains at relatively high levels up to 2 weeks after the crush. By the 3rd week, 4C5 immunoreactivity is greatly reduced, and by the 4th week it is hardly detectable. Our results concerning the cellular localization and temporal expression of the 4C5 antigen during development and after injury of the rat sciatic nerve, suggest that it may participate in Schwann cell migrations that occur during such processes.
The electrophysiological and pharmacological properties of two mammalian cell lines stably transfected with cDNAs encoding recombinant human N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor subtypes NMDAR1A/2A and NMDAR1A/2B are described. In whole-cell electrophysiological recordings, application of NMDA/glycine elicited inward currents at negative holding potentials in human NMDAR1A/2A (hNMDAR1A/2A)- and hNMDAR1A/2B-expressing cells. The current-voltage relationships determined in both cell lines in the presence and absence of external Mg++ were similar to those observed with recombinant rat NMDA receptors. Power spectra calculated from NMDA/glycine-induced currents for both NMDA receptor-expressing cell lines suggested a kinetically homogeneous population of channels. Immunoprecipitation with an anti-NMDAR1A antibody coprecipitated the corresponding NMDAR2 subunit with the NMDAR1A, suggesting that heteromeric complexes are formed in these stable cell lines. Stimulation of NMDA receptors evoked an increase in intracellular Ca++, which was used to characterize their pharmacological properties. NMDA displayed less intrinsic activity than did glutamate in both NMDA receptor-expressing cell lines and was a 4-fold more potent agonist at hNMDAR1A/2B than hNMDAR1A/2A. NMDA/glycine-evoked increases in Ca++ levels were inhibited by CGS 19755, (+/-)-3-(2-carboxypiperazin-4-yl)propyl-1-phosphonate, MK-801, ketamine and ifenprodil. (+/-)-3-(2-Carboxypiperazin-4-yl)propyl-1-phosphonate was a 3-fold more potent antagonist at hNMDAR1A/2A than hNMDAR1A/2B, whereas ifenprodil was markedly more selective toward hNMDAR1A/2B, being 250-fold more potent than against hNMDAR1A/2A. These data suggest that cells stably expressing recombinant heteromeric hNMDAR1A/2A and hNMDAR1A/2B represent pharmacologically valid experimental systems to study human NMDA receptors.

In zebra finches, estrogen is a potent hormone that masculinizes the neural circuitry controlling song during development and activates song in adulthood. However, previous studies have reported conflicting patterns of estrogen receptor (ER) expression in the song control regions. To obtain additional information about the distribution of ER in the zebra finch brain, a cDNA encoding an estrogen receptor was isolated from a zebra finch hypothalamic-preoptic area cDNA library. The 2792 bp insert contains a 1764 bp open reading frame with 5' and 3' untranslated regions of 132 bp and 896 bp, respectively. The deduced polypeptide is 589 amino acids in length and is highly homologous to the estrogen receptors of chicken (97%), rat (79%), mouse (79%), human (78%), Xenopus laevis (76%) and trout (49%). Northern blot analysis revealed three ER mRNAs expressed differentially in ovary, oviduct and telencephalon. The smallest transcript, 4.1 kb, was expressed in all three tissues, whereas larger mRNAs were expressed in ovary (7.6 kb) and oviduct (8.1 kb). In situ hybridization histochemistry revealed strong labelling in the infundibular region of the hypothalamus, preoptic area, and medial caudal neostriatum. Few or no labelled cells were found in the song control nuclei (HVC, RA, MAN or Area X). These results are consistent with previous studies that have shown ER protein and binding in hypothalamic and preoptic area and a lack of ER in most regions that control song production.
The human polyomavirus JC virus (JCV) infects myelin-producing cells in the central nervous system, resulting in the fatal demyelinating disease progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy (PML). JCV-induced PML occurs most frequently in immunosuppressed individuals, with the highest incidence in human immunodeficiency type 1-infected patients, ranging between 4 and 6% of all AIDS cases. Although JCV targets a highly specialized cell in the central nervous system, infection is widespread, with more than 80% of the human population worldwide demonstrating serum antibodies. A number of clinical and laboratory studies have now linked the pathogenesis of PML with JCV infection in lymphoid cells. For example, JCV-infected lymphocytes have been suggested as possible carriers of virus to the brain following reactivation of a latent infection in lymphoid tissues. To further define the cellular tropism associated with JCV, we have attempted to infect immune system cells, including CD34+ hematopoietic progenitor cells derived from human fetal liver, primary human B lymphocytes, and human tonsillar stromal cells. Our results demonstrate that these cell types as well as a CD34+ human cell line, KG-1a, are susceptible to JCV infection. JCV cannot, however, infect KG-1, a CD34+ cell line which differentiates into a macrophage-like cell when treated with phorbol esters. In addition, peripheral blood B lymphocytes isolated by flow cytometry from a PML patient demonstrate JCV infection. These results provide direct evidence that JCV is not strictly neurotropic but can infect CD34+ hematopoietic progenitor cells and those cells which have differentiated into a lymphocytic, but not monocytic, lineage.

The gravity-dependency and age-dependency of noradrenergic vasoconstrictor outflow to skeletal muscle (muscle sympathetic nerve activity; MSNA) in humans was analyzed by applying microneurography technique. The basal level of MSNA in the horizontally supine position increased with aging without significant changes in arterial baroreflex sensitivity. MSNA responded to +Gz load by head-up tilt and to simulated microgravity by thermoneutral head-out immersion with increasing and decreasing the activity, respectively. These gravity related responses of MSNA were age-dependent, being reduced by aging. Simultaneously monitored hemodynamic responses to +Gz load and to simulated microgravity were also age-dependent, being reduced by aging. The gravity-dependent and also age-dependent changes in the noradrenergic vasoconstrictor outflow to muscle seem to be related to the mechanisms controlling the gravity-dependent fluid shift in the human body.
Phosphoproteins and their associated kinases and phosphatases play a major role in second messenger signal cascades in neurons. Immunocytochemical studies have shown that some of these phosphoproteins and their associated enzymes are homogeneously distributed in brain and function in signal cascades common to all neurons. Other phosphoproteins and their associated enzymes are heterogeneously distributed and function in signal cascades related to specific neuronal subpopulations. Phosphoproteins and their kinases and phosphatases have been localized in the brain by electron microscopic immunocytochemistry, allowing their subcellular distributions to be analyzed. A sensitive technique employing avidin, biotin, and horseradish peroxidase has been especially useful in this endeavor. This method, along with suggestions for optimizing fixation and antibody incubations, is summarized.

The synaptic organization of the amphibian sympathetic ganglia was studied, especially in the last two abdominal paravertebral ganglia of the frog. These ganglia appear to form a monosynaptic relay, not containing interneurons. They consist of two systems working in parallel: the principal neurons, by far the most numerous, and a small number of chromaffin (i.e., SIF) cells, usually arranged in clusters. Each principal neuron is innervated by a preganglionic branch forming a set of cholinergic synapses which exhibit classical ultrastructure. The only peculiarity is the presence of a subsynaptic apparatus in a variable percentage of synaptic complexes. Electrophysiological studies have demonstrated that synaptic transmission is due to ACh release and involves several postsynaptic potentials. Moreover, the principal neurons are of two types, B and C, whose preganglionic axons and their own axons have different conduction velocities. C neurons tend to be small in diameter, and B neurons are larger, but the size distribution of the two populations overlaps. More recently, it was demonstrated that these two neuronal systems have different immunocytochemical features. The C preganglionic fibers contain an LHRH-like peptide, which is responsible for late synaptic events. The B preganglionic fibers contain CGRP, whose role has not yet been established. The principal neurons all contain adrenaline, but neuropeptide Y is also present in C neurons and could be a second transmitter at peripheral junctions. SP-containing fibers also pass through the ganglia, but give rise to intraganglionic synapses only rarely, except in the celiac plexus. Galanin can coexist with neuropeptide Y in certain C neurons. Numerous principal neurons are immunoreactive for VIP. Chromaffin cells contain noradrenaline and metenkephalin, and some contain SP or LHRH; they are endocrine cells controlled by preganglionic fibers and can have a modulatory effect on principal neurons endowed with appropriate receptors. The accessibility of frog abdominal ganglia and the anatomical separation of B and C preganglionic fiber pathways provide interesting systems in which to carry out experimentation on the stability and specificity of synaptic contacts. After postganglionic axotomy, the majority of synapses disappear by disruption of synaptic contacts. There is a certain discrepancy between the recovery of synaptic transmission and the reappearance of morphologically identifiable synapses, suggesting that a certain amount of transmission is possible at contacts devoid of synaptic complexes. The selective deafferentation of B or C neurons showed that the subsynaptic apparati are mainly found at B neuron synapses. The course of reinnervation following selective deafferentation reveals the existence of different specificities at B and C synapses: C neurons are easily reinnervated by B preganglionic fibers, whereas C fibers appear fairly ineffective at reinnervating B neurons, even after a long interval. Attempts were made to reinnervate ganglionic neurons with somatic motor nerve fibers. Reinnervation was achieved only rarely, and it is concluded that the ganglionic synapses in the frog have a higher specificity and lower plasticity than in mammals.
Medulloblastomas are poorly differentiated brain tumors believed to arise from primitive pleuripotential stem cells, and tend to express mixed neuronal and glial properties. In the present study, we examined immunohistochemical and neurotransmitter phenotypic properties in a newly established medulloblastoma cell line, MCD-1. MCD-1 cells were immortal, not contact-inhibited, but did not grow in soft agar. Immunohistochemical studies showed positive staining for neurofilament protein (NF), neuron-specific enolase (NSE), synaptophysin, MAP 2, tau, NCAM 180, vimentin, and S-100 protein. The cells expressed specific uptake of glutamate, serotonin, and choline, but not GABA or dopamine. A significant increase in process extension was seen in response to agents that enhance intracellular cyclic AMP, especially 3-isobutyl-1-methylxanthine (IBMX). Process formation induced by IBMX was associated with a decrease in cell proliferation as evidenced by a reduction in numbers of cells incorporating 5-bromo-2-deoxyuridine (BrdU). No increase in process extension was observed following exposure to NGF or retinoic acid. MCD-1 cells were shown to produce transforming growth factor beta (TGF beta), and were immunopositive for mutant p53. Transfection assays with the PG13-Luc reporter plasmid, which contains a p53-responsive enhancer element and a luciferase reporter gene, suggested MCD-1 cells are deficient in wild-type p53 and do not activate p53 on treatment with the anticancer agent adriamycin. The MCD-1 cell line is suggested to represent an abnormally differentiated cell type, which has some properties consistent with a multipotent neuronal phenotype while retaining some properties of immature cells of a glial lineage. The MCD-1 cell line can be used to provide a model of a medulloblastoma cell line that is resistant to growth-controlling and anticancer agents.

(-)-Deprenyl, 0.05, 1.0, 2.0, and 10.0 mg/kg body weight, was administered intraperitonially to Wistar rats for 30 days. The activity of acetylcholinesterase, and monoamine oxidase A and B were assayed in different brain regions. After the experimental period acetyl cholinesterase activity was found to be significantly increased in frontal cortex [P &lt; 0.001] and hippocampus [P &lt; 0.001] but not in striatum and brainstem at 0.1, 1.0, and 2.0 mg/kg dose, the maximum increase being at 0.1 mg/kg dose. Monoamine oxidase B activity was inhibited by more than 90% at 1.0, 2.0, and 10.0 mg/kg dose while 0.05 and 0.1 dose inhibited only about 55% and 70% respectively. Monoamine oxidase A activity was inhibited to more than 70% at 1.0 mg dose and to more than 90% at 2.0 and 10.0 mg/kg dose. At 0.05 and 0.1 mg/kg dose monoamine oxidase A activity was not significantly altered.
Since nitric oxide (NO) is synthesized by nitric oxide synthase (NOS) from L-arginine (Arg) which has an amidino group in its molecule, we examined the effect of 29 kinds of Arg analogues on neuronal NOS (nNOS) activity in the rat brain. None of the Arg analogues acted as a substrate for nNOS. Diamidinocystamine, hirudonine, and guanethidine inhibited nNOS activity to 67.3%, 64.2% and 74.1%, respectively, but their inhibitory efficiency was lower than NG-monomethyl-L-arginine (to 36.5%) which is a well known NOS inhibitor. Dimethylguanidine and N-benzoylguanidine also significantly inhibited nNOS activity to 88.0% and 90.7%, respectively. Whereas almost all of the NOS inhibitors previously reported were synthesized by substituting the amidino nitrogen of Arg, none of these new inhibitors were substituted at this position. Furthermore, hirudonine, which is a naturally occurring compound, was thought to act as an agonist at polyamine binding site of the N-methyl-D-aspartate type of glutamate receptor complex. It is also interesting that guanethidine, an antihypertensive agent, inhibit nNOS activity. These new drugs are useful for the investigation not only of the chemical nature of nNOS but also of the physiologic function of NO.
We studied the effect of olanzapine (1 to 15 mg/d) in 15 nondemented parkinsonian patients with drug-induced psychosis. Psychotic symptoms decreased significantly during treatment, and there was no worsening of extrapyramidal symptoms. These results suggest that olanzapine is a well-tolerated and effective treatment for drug-induced psychosis in nondemented patients with Parkinson's disease.
Elevated titers of antibodies directed at ganglioside epitopes have been associated with multifocal motor neuropathy (MMN), motor variant of chronic inflammatory demyelinating polyradiculoneuropathy (CIDP), amyolrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS), and other motor neuropathies. Anti-GM1 antibodies were measured in 675 patients: 180 age- and sex-stratified healthy blood bank controls, 132 normal controls who had full neurologic assessment including electromyography, 121 patients with definite ALS, 19 patients with pure sensory neuropathy, and 173 consecutive patient serum samples submitted for GM1 antibody testing. Antibodies to three ganglioside epitopes were determined by ELISA: IgM and IgG anti-monosialo GM1, asialo GM1, and disialo GD1b. Antibody titers for normal subjects and patients with ALS were used to determine normal values and borderline levels below which 99% of normal and 99% of ALS patient titers were found. Clinical evaluation of the next 173 consecutive patients referred for anti-GM1 antibody testing revealed 36 patients with motor neuropathies. Sera from 18 of these patients had titers above the 99% normal threshold and 14 had titers above the ALS and normal borderline threshold. All 14 with elevated sera titers were from patients with motor neuropathy or neuronopathy. Sixteen patients met the clinical and electrophysiologic criteria for MMN; 10 had elevated titers. Ten patients had the motor variant of CIDP without conduction block and three had elevated titers. Anti-IgM asialo GM1 antibodies had the highest sensitivity and specificity. High-titer IgM antibodies against monosialo GM1 occurred only in patients with various forms of pure motor neuropathy (100% specificity). The sensitivity was 50% for this referral-based population.

The synthetic immunomodulator Linomide, a quinoline-3-carboxamide, has a profound inhibitory influence in several experimental autoimmune diseases, including acute and chronic experimental allergic encephalomyelitis. In a double-blind trial, 31 patients with relapsing-remitting multiple sclerosis were randomized to oral doses of 2.5 mg Linomide or placebo once a day for six months. Fourteen patients receiving Linomide and 14 receiving placebo completed the trial, and the results were based on this population. The mean number of active (new and enlarged T2 weighted) lesions per monthly MRI scan was 1.37 in the patients receiving Linomide and 4.22 in the patients receiving placebo (p = 0.043). The percentage of scans with active MRI lesions was lower in the Linomide-treated group (p = 0.0064). When neurologic deficit was assessed by the Regional Functional Scoring System (RFSS), the Linomide group showed an improvement of 1% of the maximal RFSS range and the placebo group a deterioration of 0.2% (p = 0.14). There were three patients with relapses in the Linomide-treated group and six in the placebo group (p = 0.22). A slightly decreased proportion of natural killer cells in cerebrospinal fluid and peripheral blood was noted in the Linomide group. A severe adverse event of pleuropericarditis occurred in one of the Linomide-treated patients. The most frequent adverse event was musculoskeletal pain, of mild to severe degree, which tended to diminish after three months on Linomide therapy.
Dynamic regulation of ion channel interactions with the cytoskeleton mediates aspects of synaptic plasticity, yet mechanisms for this process are largely unknown. Here, we report that two inwardly rectifying K+ channels, Kir 2.1 and 2.3, bind to PSD-95, a cytoskeletal protein of postsynaptic densities that clusters NMDA receptors and voltage-dependent K+ channels. Kir 2.3 colocalizes with PSD-95 in neuronal populations in forebrain, and a PSD-95/Kir 2.3 complex occurs in hippocampus. Within the C-terminal tail of Kir 2.3, a serine residue critical for interaction with PSD-95, is also a substrate for phosphorylation by protein kinase A (PKA). Stimulation of PKA in intact cells causes rapid dissociation of the channel from PSD-95. This work identifies a physiological mechanism for regulating ion channel interactions with the postsynaptic density.

Intracerebroventricular (i.c.v.) administration of the kappa-opiate receptor agonist U 69.593 induces a rapid and short lasting suppression of oxytocin (OXT) levels in plasma of water deprived rats, whereas only a tendency towards a suppression of vasopressin (AVP) levels in plasma is observed. No change in neurohypophyseal hormone levels in CSF occurs following i.c.v. administration of U 69.593 at the various times points studied. It is concluded that, upon i.c.v. administration, the suppressive influence of U 69.593 is much weaker than that of the dynorphins and that neurophypophyseal hormone levels in CSF behave differently from those in the peripheral circulation.
The present study examined 13 patients with typical left unilateral spatial neglect to explore the mechanisms of neglect in copying a single object. All patients identified the figure of a sunflower as a flower that had petals all around the central circle. Besides, in the free viewing of the flowers prepared by the examiner, 10 of the 13 patients could discriminate between the presence and absence of the left-sided petals. When copying the flower, however, they always left the left side unfinished without noticing the incompleteness. Whether perception in the left visual field was impaired or not was irrelevant to the performances in the copying and the free viewing of the flowers. We consider the mechanism of left unilateral spatial neglect in copying a flower as follows. Small leftward shift of attention may take place during the free observation of the stimulus flower. While copying, however, neglect patients pay attention exclusively to the right-sided petals they are drawing. The strong engagement of attention to the right side results in the lack of discovery of the left-sided omission. The close integration of attentional and premotor mechanisms seems to be crucial for the appearance of unilateral spatial neglect in copying a single object.
Patients with frontal lobe lesions were compared to controls matched for age and education on several tests of sustained attention. One was a simple reaction time task requiring subjects to respond whenever they saw an &quot;X', one was a Continuous Performance Test that required subjects to respond to an &quot;X' but refrain from responding to other letters, and one involved reading a story and responding to a specified target. Patients with right frontal lesions showed longer RTs and missed more targets than control subjects for all three tests. In addition, right frontal patients got worse with time on the CPT. These results suggest a special role for the right frontal lobe in sustaining attention over time.
The effect of the GABAB agonist baclofen on cocaine self-administration in the rat was investigated. In the first experiment, rats trained to self-administer i.v. cocaine (1.5 mg/kg/inj) on a progressive ratio (PR) schedule were pretreated with various doses of baclofen (1.25, 2.5, or 5.0 mg/kg). Baclofen produced a dose-dependent decrease in the break points. In the second experiment, baclofen (2.5 mg/kg) was found to decrease significantly break points across a series of unit injection doses of cocaine (0.18, 0.37, 0.75, 1.5 mg/kg/inj). Baclofen produced only modest effects on food-reinforced responding even at the largest dose tested (5.0 mg/kg). These data suggest that baclofen may produce a specific attenuation of cocaine reinforcement. Baclofen produced no significant change in the rate of i.v. cocaine intake on a fixed ratio (FR 1) schedule. These data support a number of recent observations that rate of drug intake may be an insensitive measure of changes in the motivation to self-administer cocaine.
Direct projections from the pedunculopontine tegmental nucleus (PPT) and the laterodorsal tegmental nucleus (LDT) in the brainstem to area 17 of the visual cortex were investigated in the cat by the tract-tracing method with WGA-HRP. Neurochemical nature of neurons which were labeled retrogradely with WGA-HRP injected into area 17 was also examined immunohistochemically with antibodies against choline acetyltransferase (ChAT), tyrosine hydroxylase (TH), dopamine-beta-hydroxylase (DBH), and serotonin (5-HT). After injections of WGA-HRP into area 17, neurons in the caudal half of the PPT and the LDT were retrogradely labeled bilaterally with marked ipsilateral predominance. In the LDT, about 20% of the labeled neurons showed ChAT immunoreactivity (ChAT+); the vast majority (about 80%) of the labeled cells showed TH(+) and DBH(+). In the PPT, all retrogradely labeled cells exhibited TH(+) and DBH(+), but not ChAT(+). No retrogradely labeled cells with WGA-HRP showed 5-HT(+) in the PPT or LDT. The results indicate that the caudal part of the PPT and LDT sends projection fibers to area 17, and that PPT-neurons projecting to area 17 are noradrenergic, whereas LDT-neurons projecting to area 17 are cholinergic (20%) and noradrenergic (80%).
To investigate the role of brain-derived neurotrophic factor in the central nervous system, we produced an anti-peptide antibody that specifically recognized brain-derived neurotrophic factor and performed immunohistochemistry for brain-derived neurotrophic factor-like immunoreactivity in normal adult rat brain. A synthetic peptide (EKVPVSKGQL), derived from mature brain-derived neurotrophic factor, was conjugated to bovine thyroglobulin at a ratio of 1:3 and used as an immunogen to produce a high-titre anti-brain-derived neurotrophic factor polyclonal antibody in Japanese white rabbits. Dot blotting demonstrated that the antiserum could detect 3.91 pmol of synthetic peptide, and Western blotting showed that the antiserum recognized one band with a molecular weight consistent with that of brain-derived neurotrophic factor. In immunohistochemistry, brain-derived neurotrophic factor-like immunoreactivity was widespread in adult rat brain, including cerebral cortex, hippocampus, basal forebrain, striatum, hypothalamus, brainstem and cerebellum. Not only neuronal somata but also nerve fibres showed positive staining. Our data suggest that brain-derived neurotrophic factor is transported through axons in a subpopulation of neurons in adult rat brain, and that brain-derived neurotrophic factor influences a great variety of neurons and acts as a neurotrophic factor in the central nervous system.
The molecular mechanisms that underlie dentate granule cell axon (i.e., mossy fiber) growth during development and following seizure-induced hippocampal injury remain unknown. Part of this process may involve specific factors that support dentate granule cells during differentiation, and molecular cues that allow the appropriate growth of mossy fiber axons toward their targets. To study this process, we developed an in vitro assay system to measure the activity of putative trophic, chemoattractant and chemorepulsive factors. Two-hundred-micrometer-thick transverse hippocampal sections were prepared from neonatal rats and microdissected to isolate the middle one-third of the superior blade of the dentate granule cell layer. These were embedded in a three-dimensional collagen matrix either alone or with microdissected regions of the CA2 pyramidal cell layer. Cultures were maintained in a defined medium and grown for two to three days in a standard culture environment. Results showed that numerous processes grew primarily from the hilar side of explants into the collagen matrix, often in excess of 500 microns in length. These were determined to be axons based on: (i) morphological criteria including size and presence of growth cones, (ii) synaptophysin and growth-associated protein-43 immunoreactivity, (iii) lack of glial fibrillary acidic protein immunoreactivity and (iv) contiguity of biocytin-filled processes with neuronal soma within the explant. Treatment of cultures with brain-derived neurotrophic factor caused a significant increase in axon number and length, and this effect was partially reversed by the addition of a trkB-immunoglobulin fusion protein that blocks the activity of brain-derived neurotrophic factor and neurotrophin-4/5. Basic fibroblast growth factor also caused a marked increase in axon number and length, and caused a migration of neuron-like cells out of the explant into the collagen. These results show that cultured dentate granule cell layer explants are capable of growing mossy fibers into a neutral collagen matrix, and the growth of axons can be modified by the addition of exogenous growth factors. Furthermore, since target tissue and point sources of purified factors can easily be co-cultured with the explants, this new system provides a direct means for testing the molecular cues that influence mossy fiber growth.
Extracellular ATP is known to activate intracellular enzymes in astrocytes via P2 purinoceptors that appear to play important physiological and pathological roles in these supporting brain cells. In this study, major P2 purinoceptor subtypes on astrocytes of neonatal rat cerebral cortices were identified in receptor expression experiments, when astrocytic messenger RNA was injected into Xenopus oocytes and recombinant P2 purinoceptors were characterized pharmacologically. In messenger RNA-injected oocytes, ATP evoked inward chloride currents (ICl,Ca) typical of stimulating metabotropic receptors that release intracellular Ca2+. Half-maximal activation with ATP occurred at 40 nM: the Hill coefficient was 0.5, which indicated that ATP stimulated two subtypes of P2 purinoceptor. UTP and 2-methylthioATP were the most active (and equipotent) of a series of nucleotides activating recombinant P2 purinoceptors. These results indicated that the two P2 purinoceptors expressed by astrocytic messenger RNA were of P2U and P2Y subtypes. Responses to ATP were antagonized by the P2 purinoceptor antagonist (suramin) but not by the P1 purinoceptor blocker (sulphophenyltheophylline). Findings in expression studies were confirmed in assays of intracellular signalling systems using primary cultures of rat astrocytes. UTP and 2-methylthioATP stimulated mitogen-activated protein kinase to the same extent as ATP, although UTP was less potent than either ATP or 2-methylthioATP. Both UTP and ATP increased intracellular Ca2+ (as measured by fura-2/AM luminescence) which, in cross-desensitization experiments, indicated the involvement of two subtypes of P2 purinoceptors. In conclusion, rat cortical astrocytes express two major subtypes (P2U and P2Y) of metabotropic ATP receptor which, when activated, raise intracellular Ca2+ and also stimulate mitogen-activated protein kinase.
Hydrolysis-resistant activation of G-proteins by extracellular perfusion of fluoride ions was examined in Type B cells isolated from the cerebral ganglion of the marine mollusc Hermissenda. Under single-electrode voltage-clamp, modulation by aluminum fluoride ions of several classes of outward K+ currents as well as an inward Ca2+ current was observed. Following injection of the Ca2+ chelator EGTA, aluminum fluoride ions selectively increased a slow, voltage-dependent K+ current (IK) within 5 min of application, while in the absence of EGTA, aluminum fluoride ions induced a small, transient reduction of IK. Neither the magnitude nor steady-state inactivation of a fast, voltage-dependent K+ current (IA), nor a slow, Ca2+-dependent K+ current (IK-Ca), were affected by aluminum fluoride ions. In contrast, when perfusion of aluminum fluoride ions was accompanied by a repetitive depolarization and a concomitant increase in intracellular Ca2+, both IA and the combined late currents (IK and IK-Ca) were markedly reduced, a reduction which was not observed following depolarization alone or if the pairing of aluminum fluoride ions and depolarization was preceded by an injection of EGTA. The reduction of membrane conductance by the pairing of aluminum fluoride ions with depolarization could not be accounted for by an increased Ca2+ conductance, as aluminum fluoride ions produced only a small decrease in the voltage-dependent Ca2+ current. In total, these results indicate that regulatory G-proteins may bidirectionally modulate neuronal K+ currents, the direction of which is dependent on intracellular Ca2+ concentration. Such a dual regulatory mechanism may contribute to the modulation of membrane excitability observed when presynaptic activity is paired with postsynaptic depolarization, and thus may contribute to some forms of activity-dependent plasticity involving metabatropic receptors.
Because of its remarkable simplicity and the robustness of the isolated preparation, the lamprey has been used as a model system to study locomotion and its central pattern generator. The function of the spinal cord is relatively well understood in this context, but the role of the brain or even the caudal brainstem remains less so. We here present a study of the interaction between the caudal brainstem and the spinal pattern generator for locomotion. We show that the interaction is highly complex, with both feedforward input from the brainstem to spinal cord and feedback input from the spinal cord to brainstem playing a significant role in the motor output during locomotion. The brainstem, when diffusely stimulated pharmacologically, can initiate fictive locomotion, or it can disrupt or alter the ongoing D-glutamate initiated motor output. The nature of the disruptions vary greatly, and can induce generalized irregularity, while the alterations can include accelerating or decelerating of the bursting. All behaviors are displayed with spectrograms of the motor nerve discharge. We also show that the unstimulated brainstem can disrupt as well as slow the bursting, but in a complex fashion. Finally, a slow episodic behavior initiated from the caudal brainstem is also described. This can be elicited either by D-glutamate to the brainstem or by ascending activity from the spinal cord pattern generator. Thus, we demonstrate that the interaction between the brainstem and the spinal cord during the production of locomotion is highly complex. The locomotion that is exhibited by the combined brainstem-spinal cord preparation is extremely variable. This is in striking contrast to the variability of the locomotor output pharmacologically induced in the spinal cord alone. The latter preparation exhibits remarkable regularity, or upon occasion, irregularity, but not the routine irregularity or the systemic up and down changes in frequency seen with the brainstem present. However, the pattern of frequency changes induced by the brainstem is not predictable, and remains to be understood.
Several recent studies have demonstrated that expression of the tumour-suppressor gene p53 increases within the nervous system after injury. In various cell lines wild-type-p53, induced by DNA damage, has been shown to function to halt cell-cycle progression and under certain circumstances to induce programmed-cell death or apoptosis. Since wild type-p53 can act as a transcription factor to regulate the expression of p53-responsive genes it is possible that either, or both, functions of p53 are mediated by down-stream effector genes. However wild-type-p53 only weakly activates transcription and it remains to be determined whether p53-responsive genes are expressed in lesioned brain. Here we report that excitotoxic lesion of rat brain with the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor agonist, quinolinic acid, induces expression of p53 messenger RNA and protein in brain regions showing delayed DNA fragmentation and that expression of p53 messenger RNA precedes DNA damage detected by terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase-mediated dUTP-biotin nick end-labelling. In addition, using in situ hybridization and immunocytochemistry we demonstrate increased expression of the p53-responsive gene Gadd-45 (preceding p53 expression) and re-expression of the p53-responsive gene Bax (following p53 expression), in these same areas. Bax has been shown to promote neuronal death by interacting with Bcl-2 family members while Gadd-45 expression has been associated with suppression of the cell-cycle and DNA repair. These results suggest that p53 protein may function as an active transcription factor in lesioned brain perhaps initiating the re-expression of Bax in injured brain regions. However, since Gadd-45 precedes p53 expression it appears unlikely that p53 is involved in regulating the early expression of Gadd-45. Taken together however, these results suggest that p53, Bax and Gadd-45 may play important roles in the response (damage/recovery) of the brain following excitotoxic injury.
One of the crucial breakthroughs in research on parkinsonism was the observation of circling behaviour in rodents after unilateral intranigral injection of 6-hydroxydopamine. This Ungerstedt model remains one of the basic animal models of Parkinson's disease. We report here the first mutant rat strain with abnormal circling behaviour and several other features reminiscent of the Ungerstedt Parkinson model. The neurological disorder in the novel mutant rat strain is determined monogenetically by a recessive autosomal gene termed circling (ci). Mutant rats of both genders exhibit an intense asymmetric circling in an open-field or rotometer, which is enhanced by treatment with amphetamine. Neurochemical determinations show that mutants of both genders have significantly lower concentrations of dopamine and dopamine metabolites in the striatum ipsilateral to the preferred direction of rotation. Furthermore, in a forelimb-reaching test for assessing the skilled motor capacities of rats, ci rats show a marked deficit on the side contralateral to the preferred direction of turning, which is analogous to motor deficits previously described for rats subjected to unilateral 6-hydroxydopamine lesions. The new mutant rat strain thus exhibits remarkable similarities to the Ungerstedt model and could be used to study the endogenous processes, particularly the genetic components, that might eventually lead to progressive motor dysfunctions.
We investigated descending projections from the secondary somatosensory cortex to the feline spinal cord and the effects of long-lasting potentiation in secondary somatosensory cortex on the activities of motoneurons of the cat. Electrophysiological examinations revealed that the low-intensity subthreshold secondary somatosensory cortex stimulation could change the H-Reflex induced by radial nerve stimulation. The H-wave amplitudes, recorded in wrist flexor muscles, were enhanced when the intervals from secondary somatosensory cortex to radial nerve stimuli were altered from 0 to 30 ms (initial excitation, 146 +/- 11% (mean +/- S.E.M.) of the control value). In contrast, the H-waves were suppressed with intervals longer than 30 ms (80 +/- 3%). The descending pathways from secondary somatosensory cortex to the spinal cord were assessed using an immunohistochemical technique. c-Fos and Zif268 proteins, induced by stimulation of the hand-represented secondary somatosensory cortex areas, could thus express in activated cervical neurons. The density of labeled cells was significantly higher in the seventh and eighth cervical segments than in other levels. The great majority of positive cells were distributed in the lateral part of the contralateral ventral horn and their somas ranged from 10 to 50 microns in size. Finally, we examined the effects of long-lasting potentiation, induced by high-frequency stimulation of the ventral posterolateral thalamic nucleus, on the activities of spinal motoneurons. Long-lasting potentiation altered the previously observed effects of secondary somatosensory cortex stimulation on the H-wave amplitude. The secondary somatosensory cortex-conditioned initial excitation of the H-reflex was enhanced (from 139 to 175%, P &lt; 0.05), while late suppression was completely blocked (from 74 to 112%, P &lt; 0.01). In conclusion, the descending pathways from secondary somatosensory cortex to the spinal cord modulated the H-reflex, and long-lasting potentiation in secondary somatosensory cortex affected this modulation. We have previously reported that corticocortical inputs from primary to secondary somatosensory cortex is required for induction of long-lasting potentiation in secondary somatosensory cortex. Taken together, the present study suggests that cortical plasticity in secondary somatosensory cortex amplifies somatic inputs from primary somatosensory cortex as a means of adaptive motor control by the sensory system.
Prostaglandins sensitize some nociceptors to noxious mechanical, thermal and chemical stimuli; however, not all nociceptors are sensitized by prostaglandins. We used cultures of dorsal root ganglion neurons from neonatal rats to determine whether prostaglandins differentially alter the responsiveness of populations of neurons to the chemical stimulus bradykinin. Groups of dorsal root ganglion neurons were defined by size of the cell soma and by the presence of immunoreactivity for substance P. An increase in the concentration of free intracellular Ca2+ was used as an indicator of responsiveness to bradykinin. Pretreatment (5 min) with prostaglandin E2 (100 nM) increased the proportion of intermediate-size neurons (somal areas of 240-320 microns2) that responded to 30 nM bradykinin by two-fold but did not alter the proportion of small-size neurons (somal areas of 160-239 microns2) that responded. Pretreatment with prostaglandin E2 had no effect on the maximum increase in free intracellular Ca2+ evoked by 30 nM bradykinin in either population of neurons, defined by size. Although pretreatment with PGE2 did not increase the proportion of intermediate-size neurons that responded to a lower concentration of bradykinin (3 nM), it did increase the concentration of free intracellular Ca2+ evoked by 3 nM bradykinin. Both results were consistent with a leftward shift in the stimulus-response relationship for bradykinin following pretreatment with PGE2. Small- and intermediate-size neurons that responded to bradykinin also differed in their expression of immunoreactivity for substance P. Furthermore, intermediate-size neurons that expressed immunoreactivity for substance P were more likely to respond to bradykinin after treatment with prostaglandin E2. These results support the hypothesis that prostaglandin E2 sensitizes some normally unresponsive primary afferent neurons to chemical stimuli. One population of neurons which becomes responsive to bradykinin after treatment with prostaglandin E2 can be defined based on cell size, and furthermore, these neurons are likely to express substance P. During inflammation, recruitment of primary afferent neurons that are immunoreactive for substance P would enhance the participation of substance P in central mechanisms that contribute to hyperalgesia.
Pituitary adenylate cyclase activating peptide (PACAP) is expressed in a population of capsaicin-sensitive primary sensory neurons of small to medium size in the rat. In the present report we have examined the effect of sciatic nerve injury (unilateral transection) on PACAP expression (immunocytochemistry, radioimmunoassay, in situ hybridization and northern blot analysis) in dorsal root ganglia at the lumbar level and on immunoreactive PACAP in the spinal cord and in the sciatic nerve stump. For comparison, calcitonin gene-related peptide was examined. In dorsal root ganglia of the intact side immunoreactive PACAP and PACAP messenger RNA were localised to a population of nerve cell bodies of small to medium size. In dorsal root ganglia on the injured side, PACAP-immunoreactive nerve cell bodies were more numerous and PACAP messenger RNA was considerably more abundant as studied 14 days after sciatic nerve transection. By contrast, calcitonin gene-related peptide-containing nerve cell bodies were numerous and rich in calcitonin gene-related peptide messenger RNA in dorsal root ganglia on the intact side, while after transection both the number of immunoreactive nerve cell bodies and their content of messenger RNA were markedly reduced. There were indications of axotomy-induced expression of PACAP messenger RNA in larger neurons. In the dorsal horn of the spinal cord on the intact side PACAP and calcitonin gene-related peptide-immunoreactive fibres were densely accumulated in the superficial layers. On the transected side the densities of both PACAP and calcitonin gene-related peptide-immunoreactive nerve fibres were reduced in the medial part. The data obtained indicate a marked up-regulation of PACAP in sensory neurons following peripheral nerve injury. Since PACAP depresses a C-fibre evoked flexion reflex, this may have implications for sensory transmission. Further, in view of the known promoting effects of PACAP on neuronal survival and differentiation and non-neuronal cell growth as well as its proinflammatory effects a role of PACAP in the neuronal and periaxonal tissue restoration after injury is not inconceivable.
Synapsins are a family of neuron-specific phosphoproteins that are localized within the presynaptic terminals in adult brain. Previous work has demonstrated that introduction of exogenous synapsins I(a + b) or IIa into Xenopus spinal neurons promoted maturation of the neuromuscular synapse in a nerve-muscle co-culture system. We have now studied the expression of endogenous Xenopus synapsin I during synaptic maturation in vivo and in culture, using a polyclonal antibody raised against Xenopus synapsin I. Immunoprecipitation experiments indicated that synapsin I was not detectable during the early phase of synaptogenesis in vivo, and exhibited a marked increase during the period of synaptic maturation. In contrast, the expression of synaptophysin, another synaptic vesicle protein, was detected at the start of nervous system formation, and remained at a high level thereafter. Similar expression profiles for the two proteins were also observed in immunocytochemical studies of Xenopus spinal neurons in culture: intense staining of synaptophysin was found on the first day, while synapsin I was not detected until after three days in culture. The expression of synapsin I correlated very well with the appearance of a bell-shaped amplitude distribution of spontaneous synaptic currents, a physiological parameter which reflects functional maturation of the neuromuscular synapse. In one-day-old cultures grown in the absence of laminin, an extracellular matrix protein known to be present at the neuromuscular junction, the amplitude distribution of virtually all synapses was skewed towards smaller values. In contrast, when laminin was used as a culture substrate, many synapses exhibited a bell-shaped amplitude distribution. Laminin treatment also induced synapsin I expression in one-day-old cultures. These results suggest that the expression of endogenous synapsin I may regulate maturation at neuromuscular synapses.
Ankle inflammation was induced in rats by subcutaneous injection of complete Freund's adjuvant and the firing properties of spinal neurons receiving afferent input from the inflamed areas were studied four to six days later. Comparable neurons in normal rats were also studied. In normal animals the response of neurons to ankle compression consisted of a brief burst of action potentials followed by sustained firing during stimulus application. On cessation of the stimulus there was no prolonged afterdischarge. In rats with an inflamed ankle, compression of the ankle produced firing while the stimulus was applied, but with 17 of 22 neurons there was a prolonged (219 +/- 55 s) post-stimulus afterdischarge. All neurons studied in rats with peripheral inflammation fired with intermittent bursts of action potentials, particularly during the afterdischarge and spontaneous firing. The N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor antagonist DL-2-amino-5-phosphonopentanoate was ejected microiontophoretically near the cells studied. The major effect was a near abolition of bursts present in spontaneous firing and post-stimulus afterdischarges with a lesser reduction in firing during stimulus application. Effects on afterdischarge duration were variable. Since firing in bursts is known to increase transmitter release at some sites in the brain, it is proposed that when the relevant spinal neurons fire in bursts, additional intraspinal pathways are recruited and this contributes to the expanded receptive fields of neurons and possibly to the enhanced pain experienced by manipulation of inflamed peripheral tissues.
Using a novel technique combining immunohistochemistry and in vitro quantitative autoradiography, we were able simultaneously to localize and quantitate cyclic guanosine 3',5'-monophosphate (cGMP)-immunoreactive binding in adult rat cerebellum. The cGMP-immunoreactive binding was predominantly detected in the molecular layer of the cerebellum under both basal and N-methyl-D-aspartate-stimulated conditions. N-Methyl-D-aspartate significantly increased the cGMP binding density in the molecular layer. This increased cGMP level was dose-dependently and significantly inhibited by the inhalational anesthetics halothane and isoflurane. This increased cGMP level was also significantly inhibited by L-NG-nitroarginine methyl ester, an inhibitor of nitric oxide synthases. L-Arginine, the substrate of nitric oxide synthase, reversed the inhibition by L-NG-nitroarginine methyl ester on the cGMP increase. This novel combination of immunohistochemistry and quantitative autoradiography may be used to localize and quantitate simultaneously cGMP or other substances in animal tissues. Our data also confirm that nitric oxide is involved in the stimulation of cGMP formation by N-methyl-D-aspartate. Halothane and isoflurane inhibit the nitric oxide-guanylyl cyclase signaling pathway activated by the excitatory amino acid N-methyl-D-aspartate in the brain, which may be a component of the mechanisms by which these two inhalational anesthetics produce their anesthetic effects.
Nitric oxide has recently been identified as a major neural regulator. It is synthesized by the enzyme nitric oxide synthase. Whilst considerable functional evidence has pointed to an involvement of nitric oxide in circadian regulation, all previous morphological studies have failed to demonstrate the presence of nitric oxide synthase in the mammalian suprachiasmatic nucleus. By use of an antibody directed against whole recombinant rat neuronal nitric oxide synthase we have identified the presence of immunoreactivity for this enzyme in the suprachiasmatic nucleus of mouse and rat, to provide the first detailed report of this enzyme in the suprachiasmatic nucleus for any species of mammal. Immunoreactivity for neuronal nitric oxide synthase was found in neurons throughout the suprachiasmatic nucleus of mice and no difference could be detected between the ventrolateral and dorsomedial parts of the nucleus in terms of the optical density of the immunostaining. Very small, rounded neuronal cell bodies were immunopositive. Electron microscopy revealed that these neurons had relatively large nuclei and scant cytoplasm containing relatively few organelles, which sometimes included some 100 nm dense-cored peptidergic vesicles. Only about 5% of such neurons were not detectably immunoreactive. By contrast, in the rat suprachiasmatic nucleus, a much smaller number of neurons were immunopositive and these cells were aggregated in the ventrolateral part of the nucleus. The immunoreactive neurons were bipolar cells with scanty cytoplasm. Electron microscopy revealed diffuse immunoreactivity in the cytosol, but not within any organelles. In the surrounding neuropil immunoreactive dendrites and axons mingled with much larger numbers of immunonegative processes, but immunoreactive boutons were only identified just outside the dorsal margin of the nucleus. Astrocytes, oligodendrocytes and endothelial cells in the suprachiasmatic nucleus were immunonegative. NADPH-diaphorase activity was not detectable in the suprachiasmatic nucleus of either mouse or rat. This morphological evidence for nitric oxide synthase-immunoreactive cells in the suprachiasmatic nucleus supports the existing functional evidence for an involvement of nitric oxide in the transmission of light-induced signals to the suprachiasmatic nucleus in mammals.
The aim of this study was to investigate how different levels of K(+)-induced depolarization affect the survival and growth of isolated, cultured thalamic explants from mice aged embryonic day 13 to postnatal day 2. K+ was added to explants in serum-free culture medium. After culture for three days, explants were sectioned and Nissl-stained or photographed under phase contrast for quantification of neurite outgrowth. Viable and pyknotic cells were counted in sectioned material. The results revealed that, with no added K+, both viability and neurite outgrowth decreased as the age of the thalamic explant increased: most cells survived in embryonic day 13 explants, most died in postnatal day 2 explants. Adding K+ had an age- and dose-dependent effect on viability and neurite outgrowth. The greatest viability-promoting effect of adding K+ was at embryonic day 19: adding 5 mM K+ rescued the majority of these cells, although there was no effect on neurite outgrowth at this age (i.e., enhanced viability did not necessarily produce increased outgrowth). This same dose of K+ had its greatest effect on neurite outgrowth at embryonic day 17. No dose of added K+ had a stimulatory effect on viability and neurite outgrowth after embryonic day 19. The highest dose of K+ used here (50 mM) inhibited thalamic cell survival. We suggest that the survival and growth of the prenatal thalamus can occur without external influences. This intrinsic control may use an autocrine mechanism that becomes increasingly reliant on neural activity for its maintenance as it ages. After birth, when thalamic cells may switch their dependence to cortex-derived growth factors, this intrinsic control may become ineffective.
The hippocampal formation has long been thought to play a role in learning and memory. Previous studies from our laboratory examined the organization of mesencephalic projections to the hippocampal formation in the rat. In order to evaluate the effects on learning and memory of retrograde selective lesions of mesencephalic dopaminergic neurons, following bilateral injection of 6-hydroxydopamine in the dorsal and ventral subiculum and adjacent CA1 field of the hippocampal formation, young adult Sprague-Dawley rats were trained in classical inhibitory avoidance, inhibitory avoidance using a multiple trial (training to criterion) and the standard Morris water maze task (cued and spatial versions). With regard to inhibitory avoidance, retention was examined one, three and 10 days after training. Concerning the Morris water maze task, 6-hydroxydopamine-lesioned and sham-operated rats received four training trials on each of four days. After training sessions, the rats were tested during a 60-s probe trial (free-swim trial) in which the platform was removed from the maze. The loss of mesencephalic dopaminergic neurons in the 6-hydroxydopamine-lesioned rats, compared to sham-operated rats, was verified by tyrosine hydroxylase immunohistochemistry. Although the 6-hydroxydopamine-lesioned rats were indistinguishable from sham-operated rats in performing the inhibitory avoidance and the cued version of the Morris water maze task, in the spatial version of the Morris water maze, lesioned rats, compared to controls, exhibited significant differences in the latency (P &lt; 0.05), quadrant time (P &lt; 0.01) and number of platform crossings (P &lt; 0.05). These results suggest that the rat's ability to acquire spatial learning and memory for place navigation in the Morris water maze is likely to be dependent also on the integrity of mesohippocampal dopaminergic connections.
The effects of a recently synthesized benzoyl-piperidine drug that enhances currents mediated by alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionate (AMPA)-type glutamate receptors were tested on monosynaptic and polysynaptic responses in hippocampal slices of the rat. Stimulation of perforant path inputs to the dentate gyrus evoked extracellular responses in field CA1 that had latencies and laminar profiles indicating that they were relayed through the trisynaptic intrahippocampal circuit. Under control conditions, trisynaptic field excitatory postsynaptic potentials did not show larger paired-pulse facilitation than monosynaptic responses and failed to exhibit frequency facilitation. Low concentrations of picrotoxin greatly enhanced trisynaptic responses and, under these conditions, frequency facilitation was obtained. Benzoyl-piperidine-12 (250 microM) had a three-fold greater effect on the amplitude of trisynaptic responses than on monosynaptic field excitatory postsynaptic potentials, indicating that the drug's effect is amplified across the successive stages of a polysynaptic circuit. The AMPA receptor modulator did not change the frequency characteristics of monosynaptic potentials and had only a modest influence on those of the trisynaptic response. The effect of benzoyl-piperidine-12 on trisynaptic responses was significantly greater when GABAergic inhibition was partially blocked with picrotoxin; the GABA blocker did not alter the effects of benzoyl-piperidine-12 on monosynaptic responses. These results indicate that centrally active AMPA receptor modulators are likely to have a greater influence on brain operations involving long chains of connections than on those mediated by simple reflex-like circuits, and will vary markedly in their effects depending upon the excitability of local interneurons.
Formalin (10%) induces higher levels of licking and flexing in female than in male rats, as shown in the present study. In order to ascertain the neural and hormonal modifications that accompany these behavioural differences, we determined the activity of choline acetyltransferase in the hippocampus and the levels of adrenocorticotropic hormone and corticosterone in the plasma. Two concentrations of formalin were used (50 microliters; 0.1% or 10%). Formalin was injected subcutaneously in the dorsal part of the hindpaw, and the animal's behaviour was then recorded for 60 min in a familiar open-field apparatus. Hippocampal choline acetyltransferase activity did not differ between the two genders in controls, while a significant gender difference was present in both formalin-injected groups, with higher levels in females than in males. This was the result of a decrease in males but not in females. In contrast, adrenocorticotropic hormone was increased by both formalin concentrations in females; corticosterone was not affected by treatment in either gender. Results are discussed in the light of the morphological and functional differences between the two genders in the hippocampus and in the hypothalamo-pituitary-adrenal axis.
In adult rat hippocampus, simultaneous intracellular recordings from 989 pairs of CA1 pyramidal cells revealed nine monosynaptic, excitatory connections. Six of these pairs were sufficiently stable for electrophysiological analysis. Mean excitatory postsynaptic potential amplitude recorded at a postsynaptic membrane potential between -67 and -70 mV was 0.7 +/- 0.5 mV (0.17-1.5 mV), mean 10-90% rise time was 2.7 +/- 0.9 ms (1.5-3.8 ms) and mean width at half-amplitude was 16.8 +/- 4.1 ms (11.6-25 ms). Cells were labelled with biocytin and identified histologically. For one pair that was fully reconstructed morphologically, excitatory postsynaptic potential average amplitude was 1.5 mV, 10-90% rise time 2.8 ms and width at half-amplitude 11.6 ms (at -67 mV). In this pair, correlated light and electron microscopy revealed that the presynaptic axon formed two synaptic contacts with third-order basal dendrites of the postsynaptic pyramid, one with a dendritic spine, the other with a dendritic shaft. In the four pairs tested, postsynaptic depolarization increased excitatory postsynaptic potential amplitude and duration. In two, D-2-amino-5-phosphonovalerate (50 microM) reduced the amplitude and duration of the excitatory postsynaptic potential. The remainder of the excitatory postsynaptic potential now increased with postsynaptic hyperpolarization and was abolished by 20 microM 6-cyano-7-nitroquinoxaline-2,3-dione (n = 1). Paired-pulse depression was evident in the four excitatory postsynaptic potentials tested. This depression decreased with increasing inter-spike interval. These results provide the first combined electrophysiological and morphological illustration of synaptic contacts between pyramidal neurons in the hippocampus and confirm that connections between CA1 pyramidal neurons are mediated by both N-methyl-D-aspartate and alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionate/kainate receptors.
Previous studies have demonstrated neuronal loss in the substantia nigra pars reticulata following excitotoxic injury to the striatum of adult rats, and have considered this to be an anterograde transneuronal effect. However, the mode and temporal pattern of cell death in this model are unknown. We injected ibotenate into the striatum of adult rats and performed Nissl and silver staining of the substantial nigra, the globus pallidus and the entopeduncular nucleus at multiple times up to postlesion day 28. Silver-stained degenerating cells were identified in the substantia nigra pars reticulata at days 3-14 after the lesion, with maximal occurrence at day 3. Degenerating cells and fibers were preferentially distributed in the central region of the substantia nigra pars reticulata. At the cellular level, degenerating cells, frequently demonstrating morphological characteristics of neurons, showed intense silver staining of the nucleus and punctate staining of the cytoplasm. Apoptosis was not observed. In situ end-labeling confirmed the non-apoptotic nature of the cell death. There was no secondary cellular degeneration in other striatal targets, including the globus pallidus, substantia nigra pars compacta or entopeduncular nucleus. Double staining with silver and tyrosine hydroxylase immunohistochemistry disclosed degenerating cells within the tyrosine hydroxylase-positive ventral tier in the substantia nigra pars reticulata, but in no instance was there double staining within a single cell. Our results demonstrate that secondary neuronal degeneration occurs within the substantia nigra pars reticulata within a few days following excitotoxic injury to the striatum of adult rats. The cell death is non-apoptotic, unlike that occurring in the substantia nigra of neonatal rats following similar striatal lesion. This mode of transneuronal cell death may be relevant to human diseases, such as Huntington's disease and the multiple system atrophies, in which, in addition to the major striatal neuronal loss, there is considerable loss of neurons in the substantia nigra pars reticulata.
The aim of the present study was to find out whether a 6-hydroxydopamine-induced lesion of the substantia nigra in rats would evoke muscular rigidity of the parkinsonian type. Simultaneous measurements of muscle resistance (mechanomyogram) of the hind foot to passive flexion and extension at the ankle joint, as well as of the electromyographic activity of the antagonistic muscles of the ankle joint--the gastrocnemius and tibialis anterior--in rats were carried out one, two and four weeks after bilateral injections of 6-hydroxydopamine (6.5 micrograms/microliter) into the substantia nigra. After immunohistochemical staining of brain sections for tyrosine hydroxylase, the rats were divided into two groups in which, on average, either 70% (63-80%) or 89% (81-96%) of nigral cells degenerated. Larger lesions increased the resistance (mechanomyogram) of the rat's hind leg to passive movements two weeks after 6-hydroxydopamine injection, whereas smaller lesions did not. Muscle rigidity was accompanied by an increase in the movement-induced reflex electromyographic activity in both muscles, mainly in long-latency components which are most probably influenced by supraspinal mechanisms. However, in spite of relatively large lesions of nigral dopamine cells, already four weeks after the lesion, muscle rigidity and the respective electromyographic activity diminished dramatically, which seems to result from very effective compensatory mechanisms operating in young lesioned rats. The results suggest that the muscle rigidity induced by the 6-hydroxydopamine nigral lesion seems to be a good model of parkinsonian rigidity.
The aim of the present study was to analyse whether riluzole, a compound that interacts with the voltage-dependent sodium channel and impairs glutamatergic transmission, would exhibit a neuroprotective activity in a model of Parkinson's disease in the rat. Impaired skilled forelimb use, circling behavior, and altered dopaminergic metabolism of the mesotelencephalic system were evaluated in unilaterally 6-hydroxydopamine-lesioned rats. Riluzole was administered twice 15 min before, and 24 h after, the lesion. Riluzole reduced both the contralateral rotations induced by apomorphine and the ipsilateral ones elicited by amphetamine. Moreover, the decreased dopaminergic metabolism seen after 6-hydroxydopamine injection was attenuated in the riluzole-treated animals, at both the striatal and nigral levels. These biochemical and behavioral results demonstrate the ability of riluzole partially to protect the degeneration of the nigrostriatal dopaminergic neurons induced by the toxin 6-hydroxydopamine. Perhaps, the most striking evidence for the protective effect of riluzole was that this compound improved the skilled paw use, a complex sensorimotor behavior which is not easily ameliorated by palliative therapies such as dopaminergic grafts. These results extend previous data showing that riluzole counteracts the toxicity induced by 1-methyl-4-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine and 1-methyl-4-phenylpyridinium in rodent dopaminergic neurons. The use of riluzole may be considered of potential interest for the neuroprotective therapy of Parkinson's disease.
Grafts of striatal tissue comprise two different types of tissue: regions with (P-zones) and without (NP-zones) neurons that express markers characteristic of the striatum, such as dopamine- and cyclic AMP-regulated phosphoprotein with a mol. wt of 32,000 (DARPP-32). It remains unclear whether P-zones alone play a crucial role in functional effects of striatal grafts in an animal model of Huntington's disease. The present study has been performed to determine: (i) the yield of DARPP-32-positive neurons in grafts of lateral ganglionic eminence; (ii) whether treatment of graft tissue with the spin-trapping agent alpha-phenyl-tert-butyl nitrone enhances the survival of implanted DARPP-32-positive neurons; and (iii) the relationship between the number of DARPP-32-positive neurons in the grafts and functional effects of the grafts on paw-reaching ability in rats with unilateral quinolinic acid lesions of the striatum. Dissociated tissue derived from the lateral ganglionic eminence of rat embryos (embryonic day 14), with or without addition of alpha-phenyl-tert-butyl nitrone (3 mM), was implanted into the quinolinic acid-lesioned striatum. Compared to unlesioned normal animals, rats with striatal lesions showed substantial impairment in paw-reaching ability, particularly on the side contralateral to the lesion, as judged from the number of pellets retrieved by each paw. Intrastriatal grafts gave rise to a significant improvement in paw-reaching ability. The mean total number of surviving DARPP-32-positive cells in grafts without alpha-phenyl-tert-butyl nitrone treatment was estimated at 115 x 10(3), which did not significantly differ from that in alpha-phenyl-tert-butyl nitrone-treated grafts. The paw-reaching scores were significantly correlated with the volumes of P-zones and the number of DARPP-32-positive neurons, but with neither the volumes of NP-zones nor the total graft volume. The results suggest that P-zones in striatal grafts mediate graft-derived functional recovery in a complex task such as skilled forelimb use. Although the antioxidant treatment with alpha-phenyl-tert-butyl nitrone failed to promote graft survival, the positive correlation between the yield of DARPP-32-positive cells in the graft and the extent of the functional recovery highly warrants further attempts to increase the yield of the striatal component in the graft.
Severing the axon of a neuron triggers profound changes in its soma, beginning within a few days and becoming maximal within a few weeks. Unravelling these changes bears directly on our understanding of degeneration and regeneration after injury. Classically described chromatolysis arises from reorganization of rough endoplasmic reticulum, associated with biosynthetic changes in response to injury. Since motoneurons, in contrast with other central neurons, are able to regenerate their axons, their response to axotomy is of special interest. For successful regeneration, a neuron must shift its cellular machinery from &quot;operational&quot; (e.g., integration of synaptic currents, conduction of action potentials, release of transmitter) to &quot;regenerative&quot; (e.g., repair of membrane and axoplasm, remyelination, growth cone guidance). Motoneurons become unresponsive to synaptic input after axotomy, and the conduction velocity of the proximal stump is reduced. The loss of synaptic contacts on to axotomized neurons has been suggested to underlie this lost responsiveness. Here, we demonstrate rapid, selective and dramatic changes in immunostaining for ionotropic glutamate receptors in axotomized motoneurons and in supporting cells, suggesting that altered expression of glutamate receptors underlies the changed reflex responsivity.
Neurotrophins are a family of proteins which act as survival and differentiative factors in the developing and mature nervous system. Extensive evidence has been provided for their retrograde action following incorporation into nerve terminals and transport to the cell body. In contrast, we now demonstrate that one neurotrophin, brain-derived neurotrophic factor, is transported anterogradely via both peripheral and central processes of spinal sensory neurons. Using newly generated antisera, we have examined the distribution of brain-derived neurotrophic factor immunoreactivity and found it to be present within a subpopulation of sensory somata, primarily those with a small-to-medium diameter. The immunoreactivity was accumulated on both the distal and proximal sides of a ligature on the sciatic nerve. The accumulation on the distal side, but not on the proximal side, was substantially reduced by pretreatment with brain-derived neurotrophic factor antibodies in vivo. In contrast to the periphery, the immunoreactivity only accumulated on the proximal side of a lesion of the dorsal root. In the spinal cord, most nerve terminals immunoreactive for brain-derived neurotrophic factor were identified in lamina II. Lesion of the dorsal root led to a reduction of these nerve terminals. These studies indicate that the factor is transported not only retrogradely to, but also anterogradely from, the spinal ganglia to terminals in the periphery and spinal cord. The findings add a new dimension to the role of neuronal growth factors, since anterograde transport has not been observed previously for any endogenous survival factor.
Electrical excitation of nociceptive afferents in an extremity has been demonstrated to increase skin blood flow in the contralateral extremity. Hence, one would expect that loose sciatic nerve ligation, which induces an experimental painful peripheral neuropathy, may also provoke a vasodilator response in the contralateral hindpaw. On the non-ligated side, such a response may involve inhibited skin vasoconstrictor activity as well as neurogenically mediated active vasodilation. We studied skin blood flow changes in the rat hindpaw consequent to contralateral loose sciatic nerve ligation. After ligation, we also investigated whether blockade of afferent input from the ligated sciatic nerve to the spinal cord, by means of lidocaine, overrules the vasodilator response in the non-ligated paw. On the non-ligated side, we assessed the vasoconstrictor response of skin microvessels to cooling of the rat abdomen as a measure of skin vasoconstrictor activity in this paw. In order to investigate the involvement of sensory and/or non-sensory nerve fibers in the non-ligated sciatic nerve on skin blood flow abnormalities in the non-ligated paw, we studied the influence of blockade of these fibers through successive capsaicin and lidocaine application. We show that loose ligation of the sciatic nerve induces a vasodilator response in the contralateral hindpaw, which is completely abolished by blockade of afferent input from the ligated sciatic nerve. From day 1 after ligation, skin vasoconstrictor activity in the non-ligated paw was reduced, as indicated by an impaired vasoconstrictor response to cooling of the rat abdomen. Besides, blockade of sensory but not of non-sensory nerve fibers on the non-ligated side attenuated the vasodilator response in this paw. The data presented here indicate that loose ligation of the rat sciatic nerve induces a vasodilator response in the contralateral hindpaw. On the non-ligated side, this vasodilator response may involve inhibition of skin vasoconstrictor activity, as well as antidromically acting sensory nerve fibers.
Recent evidence indicates that nitric oxide participates in the modulation of vascular tone in a variety of vascular beds, including the parenchymal microvasculature of the brain. The present study examined the role of protein kinase activity in the induction and maintenance of the contractile response when endogenous nitric oxide production is inhibited in parenchymal microvessels of the rat hippocampus. Microvessels in in vitro slices of the hippocampus were monitored using computer-assisted video microscopy. The effects of inhibitors of two kinases, protein kinase C and calcium/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase, on the vasoconstrictor response to NG-nitro-L-arginine (L-NNA) were investigated. The resting luminal diameter of the microvessels examined in this study ranged from 9 to 29 microns. Addition of 100 microM L-NNA to the medium superfusing the slice constricted microvessels by 38.8 +/- 0.6%. The addition of protein kinase inhibitors reversed this constriction in a dose-dependent manner. H-7 (50 microM), a relatively non-selective protein kinase C inhibitor, elicited an 81.4 +/- 10.0% reversal of the L-NNA-induced constriction. Bisindolylmaleimide (5 microM), a selective protein kinase C inhibitor, reversed the constriction by 69.1 +/- 13.7%. KN-62, an inhibitor of calcium/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II, elicited a smaller yet statistically significant reversal of 17.1 +/- 5.1%. Pretreatment with H-7 or bisindolyl-maleimide blocked the LNNA-induced constriction entirely, while KN-62 did not significantly inhibit the response. These findings indicate that the contractile response observed upon removal of endogenous nitric oxidergic vasodilation is mediated by protein kinase activity, and the contribution of protein kinase C to this effect is greater than that of calcium/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II. The results suggest that a tonic nitric oxidergic influence serves to mask the potential for protein kinase C-mediated vasoconstriction in cerebral microvessels.
Using Fos immunohistochemistry as a marker of cellular activity, we have shown that neurons in the suprachiasmatic nucleus of fetal sheep are active by 75 days gestation. From at least 90 days gestation (term is 146 days), these neurons are more active during the day (12.00) than at night (03.00) when pregnant ewes are exposed to a 12-h light-dark cycle with lights on at 07.00. The day-night difference in Fos immunoreactivity persisted when the lighting schedule was extended by 8 h to 03.00, although neurons were now more active at 03.00 than they were in fetuses maintained on the normal light-dark cycle. When ewes were maintained in constant light from 133 to 138 days, the day-night difference in Fos immunoreactivity in the fetal suprachiasmatic nucleus was abolished, suggesting that diurnal activity of the fetal suprachiasmatic nucleus is maintained by a signal related to the external lighting regime. In a twin pregnancy where one fetus was optically enucleated at 100 days gestation, the density of Fos-immunoreactive neurons in the suprachiasmatic nucleus during the day at 138 days was similar to the unoperated twin. This suggests that the effects of dim light in the uterus on the fetal retina do not account for the high level of Fos immunoreactivity in the suprachiasmatic nucleus in the daytime. We propose that a chemical messenger of maternal origin, possibly melatonin, suppresses the activity of fetal suprachiasmatic neurons during the night, and that fetal suprachiasmatic neurons have endogenous activity which is expressed fully during the daytime.
Many lines of evidence support a close association between thyroid hormones and noradrenergic systems in peripheral tissues. However, there is little certainty regarding interactions of the two systems in brain. We now report that triiodothyronine is concentrated in both nuclei and projection sites of central noradrenergic systems. Immunohistochemical mapping of the hormone revealed the following: (1) Locus coeruleus and all other noradrenergic cell groups identified were the most prominently labeled neural centers in the brain. (2) The hormone was also concentrated in the widely dispersed targets of noradrenergic projections. (3) Triiodothyronine labeling in noradrenergic target cells was most prominent over the cell nuclei, indicating that the hormone was bound to its receptors. Therefore, targets of noradrenergic innervation should be responsive to triiodothyronine. (4) Unlike that in noradrenergic target cells, triiodothyronine staining was decidedly perikaryal in locus coeruleus (A-6) and the other A-1 to A-7 cell groups; the staining pattern in locus coeruleus cytosol and processes was heavy, clumped and similar to that seen in contiguous sections immunostained for tyrosine hydroxylase. Results of radio-immunoassay, immunoabsorption and pharmacological tests demonstrated the specificity of the antibody for triiodothyronine and ruled against cross-reactivity with norepinephrine or its metabolites as the basis for the staining reactions. Although other possibilities consistent with these new observations are given consideration, it appears that the structure and activity of central noradrenergic systems may be major determinants of triiodothyronine distribution patterns and actions in brain. If the noradrenergic system processes both triiodothyronine and norepinephrine and conducts them both to nerve cell groups receiving its terminal arborizations, specific postsynaptic receptors would be available for transduction of both sets of messages. The evidence provides a morphological basis for earlier proposals that triiodothyronine may play a neuromodulatory or neurotransmitter role in the adrenergic nervous system.
Until now, in amphibians, response odor properties of primary cortical neurons had never been investigated. Furthermore, very few data on this subject are available in other species. This prompted us to explore the functional properties of olfactory cortical neurons at rest and in response to odors. To achieve this, our experience with odor coding in the first two stages of the frog olfactory system, the olfactory mucosa and the olfactory bulb, led us to use odor stimuli which were chemical compounds with known stimulating properties, delivered to the mucosa in controlled conditions over a wide concentration range. Most of the cortical neurons were found to be very silent at rest, their average spontaneous activity being significantly lower than that of bulb neurons recorded previously in the same conditions. Cortical cells displayed, with all odors combined, 35% excitatory responses and 8% inhibitory responses. The excitatory response rate was similar to that of the bulb, while the inhibitory response rate was about 4.5-fold lower. Interestingly, two functional groups of cortical cells emerged based both on differences in response temporal patterning to odors delivered at increasing concentrations and in qualitative discrimination power. Regarding intensity coding, group 1 cells (53%) displayed &quot;classical&quot; temporal pattern evolution, increase of discharge frequencies and decrease of latency and burst duration, over the concentration range. The responses of group 2 cells (47%) were clearly original, since they consisted of a single spike (or more rarely two spikes) occurring with a strictly reproducible latency at a given concentration and a decreased latency as a function of increasing concentration. The dynamics of cell recruitment in the cortex showed that group 1 cell recruitment mimicked that of mitral cells, group 2 cells being recruited at higher concentrations. The analysis of qualitative discrimination properties of cortical cells regarding the eight-odor set revealed that the discrimination power of group 2 cells was similar to that of mitral cells. By contrast, the qualitative discrimination power of group 1 cells was found to be similar to that of neuroreceptor cells. In conclusion, this pioneer approach leads us to report that olfactory cortical neurons of the frog are responsive to odors and can be clearly divided into two groups based on functional criteria. Group 1 cells, which were relatively selective, poorly discriminating but sensitive, may be mainly devoted to intensity coding. By contrast, group 2 cells, which were not very sensitive but were selective and discriminating, were hypothesized to provide minimal intensity coding and thus to be mainly devoted to qualitative discrimination tasks.
c-Fos has been used as a marker for activity in the spinal cord following noxious somatic or visceral stimulation. Although the viscera receive dual afferent innervation, distention of hollow organs (i.e. esophagus, stomach, descending colon and rectum) induces significantly more c-Fos in second order neurons in the nucleus of the solitary tract and lumbosacral spinal cord, which receive parasympathetic afferent input (vagus, pelvic nerves), than the thoracolumbar spinal cord, which receives sympathetic afferent input (splanchnic nerves). The purpose of this study was to determine the contribution of sympathetic and parasympathetic afferent input to c-Fos expression in the nucleus of the solitary tract and spinal cord, and the influence of supraspinal pathways on Fos induction in the thoracolumbar spinal cord. Noxious gastric distention to 80 mmHg (gastric distension/80) was produced by repetitive inflation of a chronically implanted gastric balloon. Gastric distension/80 induced c-Fos throughout the nucleus of the solitary tract, with the densest labeling observed within 300 microns of the rostral pole of the area postrema. This area was analysed quantitatively following several manipulations. Gastric distension/80 induced a mean of 724 c-Fos-immunoreactive nuclei per section. Following subdiaphragmatic vagotomy plus distention (vagotomy/80), the induction of c-Fos-immunoreactive nuclei was reduced to 293 per section, while spinal transection at T2 plus distention (spinal transection/80) induced a mean of 581 nuclei per nucleus of the solitary tract section. Gastric distension/80 and vagotomy/80 induced minimal c-Fos in the T8-T10 spinal cord (50 nuclei/section), but spinal transection/80 induced 200 nuclei per section. Repetitive bolus injections of norepinephrine produced transient pressor responses mimicking the pressor response produced by gastric distension/80. This manipulation induced minimal c-Fos in the nucleus of the solitary tract and none in the spinal cord. It is concluded that noxious visceral input via parasympathetic vagal afferents, and to a lesser extent sympathetic afferents and the spinosolitary tract, contribute to gastric distention-induced c-Fos in the nucleus of the solitary tract. The induction of c-Fos in the nucleus of the solitary tract is significantly greater than in the viscerotopic segments of the spinal cord, which is partially under tonic descending inhibition, but is not subject to modulation by vagal gastric afferents. Distention pressures produced by noxious gastric distention are much greater than those produced during feeding, suggesting that c-Fos induction in the nucleus of the solitary tract to noxious distention is not associated with physiological mechanisms of feeding and satiety. The large vagal nerve-mediated induction of c-Fos in the nucleus of the solitary tract following gastric distension suggests that parasympathetic afferents contribute to the processing of noxious visceral stimuli, perhaps by contributing to the affective-emotional component of visceral pain.
This study examined the contribution of endogenous opioids to the antinociception produced by microinjection of the GABAA receptor antagonist, bicuculline, into the rat midbrain ventrolateral periaqueductal gray region. Microinjection of bicuculline (40 ng/0.4 microliter) into the periaqueductal gray produced robust antinociception as measured by the tail-flick latency to noxious heat. This antinociception was partially reversed by intravenous administration of the non-selective opioid antagonist naloxone hydrochloride (1 and 5 mg/kg), indicating that endogenous opioid release is necessary for this effect. To determine whether opioid release in the rostral ventromedial medulla, a major projection target of the periaqueductal gray, contributes to this effect, we microinjected another opioid antagonist, naltrexone, into the rostral ventromedial medulla. Naltrexone in the rostral ventromedial medulla (5 and 10 micrograms/microliter) significantly attenuated bicuculline antinociception elicited from the periaqueductal gray. Cys2, tyr3, orn5, pen7-amide (26.5 nmol), a selective mu-opioid receptor antagonist, also reversed the antinociception when microinjected into the rostral ventromedial medulla. Microinjections of naltrexone (10 micrograms/microliter) or cys2, tyr3, orn5, pen7-amide at sites in the medulla dorsal to the rostral ventromedial medulla were ineffective. None of the antagonists altered baseline tail-flick latencies. These results support the hypothesis that a population of periaqueductal gray neurons produces antinociception through a mu-opioid receptor-mediated action of endogenous opioids in the rostral ventromedial medulla. Thus, two opioid-sensitive pain-modulating brainstem sites are linked by an endogenous opioid synapse in the rostral ventromedial medulla.
The rostral ventromedial medulla is a critical relay for midbrain regions, including the periaqueductal gray and nucleus cuneiformis, that control nociception at the spinal cord. Opioid-containing neurons and terminals are concentrated in both the periaqueductal gray and the rostral ventromedial medulla in the rat. However, the function of endogenous opioid peptides within the medulla in pain modulation is unclear. In this study, bicuculline (30-50 ng) or morphine (5 micrograms) microinjected into the periaqueductal gray inhibited the tail-flick reflex and the firing of on-cells (cells that increase firing just before tail flick) in the medulla. Iontophoretically applied naloxone (20 or 30 nA), which blocked the inhibition of on-cell firing induced by iontophoresis of morphine (20 or 30 nA), consistently reduced the on-cell inhibition produced by bicuculline or morphine microinjected into the periaqueductal gray. Naloxone did not reduce the inhibition of on-cell firing induced by iontophoretically applied clonidine (10 or 20 nA), an alpha 2 adrenoceptor agonist. The firing of off-cells (cells that pause in firing just prior to tail-flick) in the medulla was increased by bicuculline applied in the periaqueductal gray and was not affected by naloxone. The present results suggest that when activation of neurons in the periaqueductal gray produces antinociception, endogenous opioid peptides are released in the rostral ventromedial medulla and selectively inhibit on-cells, which presumably have a facilitating action on spinal nociceptive transmission. This action is proposed to be critical for the behavioral antinociception induced by bicuculline or morphine in the periaqueductal gray.
Substance P is known to elicit diverse actions via activating multiple subtypes of tachykinin receptors, and these actions appear to be involved not only in synaptic transmission but also in synaptic plasticity during development of the mammalian central nervous system. The availability of sensitive quantitation of individual tachykinin receptor subtypes is crucial for elucidating the physiological function specifically mediated by activation of a particular receptor subtype. We thus attempted to develop an assay to determine the level of messenger RNA molecule encoding the neurokinin-1-type tachykinin receptor and apply it for assessment of developmental changes in the neurokinin-1 receptor gene expression in the rat brain to explore the role of tachykinin receptors during ontogeny. The assay was designed to use a competitive reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction co-amplifying endogenous neurokinin-1 receptor messenger RNA and internal standard, which enabled specific quantification of the number of neurokinin-1 receptor transcripts, ranging from 3.1 x 10(3) to 1.3 x 10(5) molecules/microgram total RNA. The levels of neurokinin-1 receptor gene expression were examined in three different brain regions of the rat aged 0-56 days after birth. The order of neurokinin-1 receptor messenger RNA expression was hippocampus &gt; cerebral cortex &gt; &gt; cerebellum at all ages examined except postnatal day 0, where its expression was more abundant in the cerebral cortex than in the hippocampus. From postnatal day 3 onward, the hippocampus contained 140-160% of the cortical levels. Although the tachykinin receptor expression in the cerebellum was too low to be accurately assessed by conventional techniques, our assay enabled us to determine the amount of cerebellar neurokinin-1 receptor messenger RNA that changed in the range 7-23% of the cortical level during postnatal development. A prominent feature revealed by this assay is that the neurokinin-1 receptor gene expression in the rat brain is developmentally regulated. The hippocampus displayed a transient peak of neurokinin-1 receptor messenger RNA at postnatal day 3 and a subsequent gradual decrease. In the cerebral cortex, the amount of the message was highest at birth, and was followed by a moderate decrease during postnatal development. At 56 days after birth, the expression levels in both brain regions were down-regulated to approximately 50% of their maximal levels. The transitory pattern of gene expression was also observed in the cerebellum. The results of this study demonstrate that the reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction-based assay is useful to quantitate precisely the neurokinin-1 tachykinin receptor message in limited tissue samples derived from discrete brain regions. Together with previous findings, the increased level of neurokinin-1 receptor messenger RNA expression in immature rat brain shown by the present analysis suggests that the neurokinin-1-type tachykinin receptor may play a role in the synaptic plasticity associated with morphological and functional development of the mammalian CNS.
Norepinephrine and the beta-adrenergic receptor agonist, isoproterenol, have been shown to potentiate the amplitude of GABAA receptor-mediated whole-cell current responses in Purkinje cells acutely dissociated from the rat cerebellum. However, the steps leading from the activation of beta-adrenergic receptors to the modulation of GABAA receptor remain to be delineated. This study tested the hypothesis that a sequelae of intracellular intermediaries involving the cyclic AMP second messenger system serves as the subcellular link to promote this heteroreceptor interaction. Exposure to cholera toxin, but not to pertussis toxin, increased the amplitude of GABA-activated current responses in acutely dissociated Purkinje cells. Intracellular dialysis with guanosine 5'-O-(3-thiotriphosphate) also resulted in a time- and dose-dependent augmentation of the response to GABA. while guanosine 5'-O-(2-thiodiphosphate) blocked the norepinephrine-mediated facilitation. A positive modulation of the current response to GABA was observed following intracellular delivery of cyclic AMP or the catalytic subunit of the cyclic AMP-dependent protein kinase. Furthermore, the norepinephrine-induced potentiation of the GABA-activated current response was prevented in the presence of the Rp isomer of cyclic AMP, the regulatory subunit of cyclic AMP-dependent protein kinase and an inhibitor of cyclic AMP-dependent protein kinase. These findings led to the formulation of a working model in which activation of the beta-adrenergic receptor triggers a Gs-protein-mediated transduction cascade in cerebellar Purkinje cells which activates adenylate cyclase, resulting in a rise in intracellular levels of cyclic AMP, increased phosphorylating activity by cyclic AMP-dependent protein kinase and, ultimately, a potentiation of GABAA receptor function.
The kinetics of platelet-derived growth factor messenger RNA synthesis in the substantia nigra and in the striatum, before and after unilateral intranigral 6-hydroxydopamine injection, was studied and compared with that after sham operation by a quantitative reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction. The kinetics of brain-derived neurotrophic factor messenger RNA was studied as a comparison. Furthermore, the expression of platelet-derived growth factor A- and B-chain proteins was analysed by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay and immunohistochemistry. In the ipsilateral striatum of 6-hydroxydopamine-lesioned rats, the signal density of messenger RNA for both A- and B-chains had already increased at one day and remained at an elevated level during the observation period of four weeks. In the substantia nigra ipsilateral to the lesion, a strongly increased level of B-chain and, to a lesser extent, of A-chain messenger RNA was already detected at 4h, reaching a maximal level at one day. No significant increase was seen either in sham-operated rats or in the contralateral striatum and substantia nigra. Amounts of platelet-derived growth factor proteins were examined separately by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay in both sides of the substantia nigra, striatum and cortex. Three days after 6-hydroxydopamine lesions the levels of both platelet-derived growth factor A- and B-chains increased in the ipsilateral striatum, substantia nigra, and cortex. An increase in the A-chain was also observed in the contralateral side of the brain. The signal for brain-derived neurotrophic factor messenger RNA increased in the striatum in the lesioned side and, to a lesser extent, in the contralateral side, as well as in the substantia nigra, where a significant difference was observed when compared with the contralateral side. Semiquantitative immunohistochemical analysis on the substantia nigra confirmed the enhanced platelet-derived growth factor expression, revealing that the majority of the platelet-derived growth factor-producing cells were neurons. In summary, we have shown that platelet-derived growth factor messenger RNA as well as its protein are induced after injury to dopaminergic cells. These data indicate an important role of platelet-derived growth factor in the dopaminergic system.
Psychomotor stimulants such as cocaine alter gene expression in neurons of the striatum. Whereas many of these effects are mediated by D1 dopamine receptors, the involvement of other dopamine receptor subtypes or neurotransmitters is likely. To distinguish between these possibilities, regulation by cocaine of immediate-early genes and genes encoding neuropeptides was analysed in mice that lack functional D1 receptors. Gene expression was examined with in situ hybridization histochemistry. In these animals, cocaine failed to induce the immediate-early genes c-fos and zif 268. In contrast, substance P expression was abnormally increased by this drug. These results demonstrate that some of the effects of cocaine on gene regulation are mediated via D1 receptor-dependent mechanisms, as evidenced by the absence of immediate-early gene induction in D1-deficient mice, whereas others also involve additional, non-D1 receptor mechanisms, as shown for substance P expression.
It has been reported in previous studies that perikaryal neurotensin immunoreactivity is largely absent in the rat striatum except following striatal dopamine depletion or blockade of dopamine D2 receptors, after which, however, neurotensin immunoreactivity is elicited in at least two distinct subpopulations of striatal neurons [Zahm D.S. (1992) Neuroscience 46, 335-350]. One subpopulation of such cells (type I), prominent following D2 receptor blockade, is located mainly in the matrix compartment in the rostral, dorsomedial and ventrolateral parts of the striatum, and comprises neurons at the large end of the medium-sized spectrum that exhibit intense neurotensin immunoreactivity in perikarya and proximal dendrites, but rarely display Fos immunoreactivity [Senger B. et al. (1993) Neuroscience 57, 649-660]. A second subpopulation (type II) resides predominantly in the patch (striosome) and matrix compartments in the dorsolateral quadrant of the striatum, and is prominent following administration of reserpine. These neurons are at the small end of the medium size range and exhibit very light neurotensin immunoreactivity, with little staining of dendrites. Fos immunoreactivity is frequently co-localized in striatal neurons that exhibit a type II striatal neurotensin response [Brog J.S. and Zahm D.S. (1995) Neuroscience 65, 71-86]. In the current study, neurotensin immunoreactivity was elicited in striatal neurons by ventral mesencephalic 6-hydroxydopamine lesions or administration of reserpine or haloperidol. Irrespective of which drug was given, retrogradely transported Fluoro-Gold was prominently co-localized with neurotensin-like immunofluorescence in the perikarya of striatal neurons following injections of the retrograde tracer into the globus pallidus. Few double-labeled neurons were observed following administration of any of these drugs and injections of Fluoro-Gold into the substantia nigra. It is concluded that two subpopulations of neurotensin-immunoreactive striatal neurons project predominantly to the globus pallidus and minimally to the substantia nigra.
The effect of cholecystokinin peptides on the release of dynorphin B, aspartate, glutamate, dopamine and GABA in the neostriatum and substantia nigra of the rat was investigated using in vivo microdialysis. Sulphated cholecystokinin-8S in the dialysis perfusate (1-100 microM) induced a concentration-dependent increase in extracellular dynorphin B and aspartate levels, both in the neostriatum and substantia nigra. Striatal dopamine levels were only increased by 100 microM of cholecystokinin-8S, while in the substantia nigra they were increased by 10-100 microM of cholecystokinin-8S. Extracellular GABA and glutamate levels were increased following 100 microM of cholecystokinin-8S only. Striatal cholecystokinin-8S administration also produced a significant increase in nigral dynorphin B levels. Local cholecystokinin-4 (100 microM) produced a moderate, but significant, increase of extracellular dynorphin B and aspartate levels in the neostriatum and substantia nigra. No effect was observed on the other neurotransmitters investigated. A 6-hydroxydopamine lesion of the nigrostriatal dopamine pathway did not affect the increases in dynorphin B and aspartate levels produced by local administration of cholecystokinin-8S. Basal extracellular GABA levels were increased significantly in both the neostriatum and substantia nigra ipsilateral to the lesion. Nigral glutamate and aspartate levels were also increased in the lesioned substantia nigra, but in the lesioned neostriatum aspartate levels were decreased. The cholecystokinin-B antagonist L-365,260 (20 mg/kg, s.c.), but not the cholecystokinin-A antagonist L-364,718 (devazepide; 20 mg/kg, s.c.), significantly inhibited the effect of cholecystokinin-8S on striatal dynorphin B and aspartate levels. In the substantia nigra, however, the effect of cholecystokinin-8S on dynorphin B and aspartate levels was inhibited to a similar extent by both L-365,260 and L-364,718. Pretreatment with L-364,718, but not with L-365.260, prevented the increase in nigral dopamine levels produced by nigral cholecystokinin-8S administration. Taken together, these results suggest that cholecystokinin-8S modulates dynorphin B and aspartate release in the neostriatum and substantia nigra of the rat via different receptor mechanisms. In the neostriatum, the effect of cholecystokinin-8S on dynorphin B and aspartate release is mediated via the cholecystokinin-B receptor subtype, while in the substantia nigra, cholecystokinin-8S modulates dynorphin B and aspartate release via both cholecystokinin-A and cholecystokinin-B receptor subtypes. Cholecystokinin-8S modulates dopamine release mainly in the substantia nigra, via the cholecystokinin-A receptor subtype.
Repetitive local application of a short train of stimuli to the rat substantia nigra and ventral tegmental area elicited a predominant depolarizing, slow, long-lasting synaptic response in the dopaminergic cells intracellularly recorded in vitro. This slow excitatory postsynaptic potential ranged between 13 and 27 mV at holding potentials of about-75 mV and lasted for 0.2-6 s. It was not greatly affected by the perfusion of 6-cyano-7-nitroquinoxaline-2,3-dione (10-20 microM), while it was potentiated in the presence of bicuculline methiodide (30 microM) or picrotoxin (50-100 microM) and 2-hydroxysaclofen (100-300 microM). In contrast, a substantial component of the slow excitatory postsynaptic potential was reversibly depressed, in a concentration-dependent manner, by the application of the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor antagonists D,1-2-amino-5-phosphonovalerate (10-100 microM). Furthermore, the slow excitatory postsynaptic potential was reversibly increased by the superfusion of nominally magnesium-free solution. It was graded, increasing in amplitude with increased stimulus intensity, and was blocked by tetrodotoxin (0.5 microM). We suggest that a sustained activation of synaptic terminals containing excitatory amino acids mediates a slow excitatory postsynaptic potential in the dopaminergic cells of the midbrain. N-Methyl-D-aspartate receptors participate in the generation of this slow potential, while the alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methylisoxazole-4-proprionate/kainate receptors do not seem to contribute substantially to this potential. This N-methyl-D-aspartate-mediated synaptic event could be implicated in the release of dopamine as well as in the excitotoxic injury of the dopaminergic neurons.
Axons damaged in the adult mammalian central nervous system are able to regenerate when their inhibitory glial environment is replaced with a more permissive substrate. Here, we have used long oblique &quot;bridge&quot; grafts of fibroblast growth factor-4-transfected RN-22 schwannoma cells to allow mechanically lesioned nigrostriatal axons to regenerate back to their original target in the adult rat brain. Regenerated axons were able to leave the bridge graft to form terminal arborizations and increase the density of tyrosine hydroxylase-immunoreactive fibres within the striatum. Bridge grafting also resulted in an increase in the number of neurons within the substantia nigra pars compacta taking up the fluorescent retrograde tracer Fluoro-Gold from the striatum. Animals which had received RN-22 bridge grafts showed lower rates of amphetamine-induced rotation 10 weeks after a mechanical lesion of the nigrostriatal tract compared to lesioned controls, the magnitude of the behavioural effect being related to the number of regenerated axons, and this comparative reduction was reversed by mechanical section of the bridge graft. It is concluded that our bridge grafting strategy allowed the partial anatomical and functional regeneration of the mechanically lesioned nigrostriatal tract, an unmyelinated central axon bundle, and that bridge grafting therefore represents a realistic approach to the repair of central nervous system lesions involving axon tract damage.
A number of experimental results has pointed to a cholinergic involvement in the stress response. Recently, analytical techniques have become available to measure acetylcholine release in vivo during exposure to various stressors. In these experiments, microdialysis was used to monitor acetylcholine output every 15 min in the dorsal hippocampus, amygdala, nucleus accumbens and prefrontal cortex before, during and after 1 h of restraint, including a 15-min session of intermittent tail-shock (1/min, 1 mA, 1-s duration) in rats. In response to the stressful event, acetylcholine release was significantly increased in the prefrontal cortex (186%; p &lt; 0.01) and hippocampus (168%; P &lt; 0.01) but not in the amygdala or nucleus accumbens. The sole effects observed in the amygdala and nucleus accumbens occurred upon release from the restrainer, at which point acetylcholine levels were significantly elevated in both areas (amygdala: 150%; P &lt; 0.05; nucleus accumbens: 13%; P &lt; 0.05). An enhanced acetylcholine release was also evident during this sample period in the hippocampus and prefrontal cortex. These data demonstrate an enhancement of cholinergic activity in response to stress in two acetylcholine projection systems (hippocampus and prefrontal cortex) but not in the intrinsic acetylcholine system of the nucleus accumbens or the extrinsic innervation of the amygdala. Moreover, the data showed that relief from stress was accompanied by a more ubiquitous acetylcholine response that extended to each site tested.
We have previously shown that androgen receptors are found in high concentrations in hippocampal CA1 pyramidal cells. To begin to explore the possible roles for androgen receptors in this area of the brain, we studied the effects of endogenous and exogenous androgen on the behaviourally induced expression of cellular immediate early gene messenger RNAs. Adult male Fischer 344 rats were either gonadectomized, gonadectomized and given two Silastic capsules of dihydrotestosterone propionate at the time of surgery, or left intact. Three weeks later, animals were placed into a novel open field for 20 min. This behavioural paradigm caused region- and gene-specific increases of c-fos, jun-B, c-jun and zif268 messenger RNA in the hippocampus as determined by semi-quantitative in situ hybridization histochemistry. The removal of circulating androgen by gonadectomy potentiated, whereas dihydrotestosterone treatment of castrates attenuated, the behaviourally induced expression of c-fos messenger RNA in the CA1 region of the hippocampus. No changes in c-fos messenger RNA expression were detected in the CA3 or dentate gyrus regions where androgen receptor levels are low. Androgen status did not affect either the basal or stimulated expression of Jun-B, c-Jun or zif268 messenger RNA in any of the three cellular regions of the hippocampus examined. These results implicate androgen receptors in modulating the active response of hippocampal neurons to a behaviourally relevant stimulus. Since the products of cellular immediate genes can function to alter an array of downstream genes, the modulation of these genes in the hippocampus by gonadal hormones may have important ramifications for hippocampal function.
Using in vitro autoradiography, we investigated [3H] alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionate, [3H]kainate and [3H]N-methyl-D-aspartate binding in two forebrain regions, the hippocampus and striatum, of young (four months of age) and aged (24-25 months of age) Long-Evans rats that had previously been tested for spatial learning ability in the Morris water maze. Although there was substantial preservation of binding in the aged rats, reductions in binding were present in the aged rats that were specific to ligand and anatomical region. In the hippocampus of aged rats, [3H] alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionate binding in CA1 and [3H]kainate binding in CA3 were reduced. In contrast, N-methyl-D-aspartate binding was not significantly different between age groups. There was evidence of sprouting in the dentate gyrus molecular layer of aged rats, indicated by changes in the topography of [3H]kainate binding. Binding density was analysed with respect to patch/matrix compartmentalization in the striatum. The most striking result was a large decrease in N-methyl-D-aspartate binding in aged rats that was not limited to any dorsal/ventral or patch/matrix area of the striatum. Additionally, [3H]kainate binding in striatal matrix was modestly reduced in aged rats. Of these age effects, only N-methyl-D-aspartate binding in the striatum and [3H]kainate binding in the CA3 region of the hippocampus were correlated with spatial learning, with lower binding in the aged rats associated with better spatial learning ability. Age-related alterations in ionotropic glutamate receptors differ with respect to the receptor subtype and anatomical region examined. The age effects were not necessarily indicative of cognitive decline, as only two age-related binding changes were correlated with spatial learning. Interestingly, in these instances, lower binding in the aged rats was associated with preserved spatial learning, suggesting a compensatory reduction in receptor binding in a subpopulation of aged rats.
With advancing age clusters of abnormal granules positive for periodic acid-Schiff appear in the hippocampus of C57BL/6 (B6) mice and the senescence-accelerated mouse (SAM) P8. The granules can also be visualized with a polyclonal antibody to a 110,000 mol. wt laminin-binding protein and stain specifically with a monoclonal antibody to heparan sulfate proteoglycan. The present study used light and electron-microscopic analysis to compare the staining and morphological properties of these granules in SAM P8 hippocampus with those in B6 hippocampus at different ages. The results of the light-microscopic analysis revealed that granules in SAM P8 and B6 had similar morphology, staining characteristics and distribution patterns, and appeared to have a close association with astrocytic process. The onset of granules in SAM P8 mice (at two to three months of age) was earlier than that observed in B6 mice (at four to six months of age), but the maximum incidence was similar in both strains. Electron-microscopic analysis revealed that the granules in SAM P8 and B6 mice also had a very similar ultrastructure. Granules in both strains were surrounded by a discontinuous membrane and contained mostly crystalline-like, degenerated material. The successive ultrastructural changes from the exterior to interior of the granules suggest that the degenerative process was initiated outside the granules and that degenerative structures migrate inward. Astrocytes and heparan sulfate proteoglycan are closely associated with beta-amyloid deposits in Alzheimer's disease. The presence of astrocyte-associated heparan sulfate proteoglycan-positive material in aged SAM P8 and B6 mice might model age-related alterations in glia function possibly involved in human cerebral amyloidogenesis.
Trans-azetidine-2,4-dicarboxylic acid (ADA) is a putative selective agonist of group 1 metabotropic glutamate receptors. It has been shown previously that application of ADA prior to a short-term potentiation-inducing high-frequency tetanus facilitates long-term potentiation in vivo. In order to examine the role of metabotropic glutamate receptors in this response, we studied the effect of ADA in the dentate gyrus of the rat when applied after high-frequency tetanus to the perforant path. A comparison was made with the effects of the metabotropic glutamate receptor group 1 agonist 3,5-dihydroxyphenylglycine. Drugs were applied via a cannula implanted in the lateral cerebral ventricle. Both population spike amplitude and field excitatory postsynaptic potential were measured. Weak tetanization produced a short-term potentiation of field excitatory postsynaptic potential and population spike which decayed to baseline values by 90 min, and was unaffected by vehicle injections. Application of ADA (20 mM/5 microliters) or 3,5-dihydroxyphenylglycine (4mM/5 microliters) 5 min after high-frequency tetanus facilitated short-term potentiation into a long-term potentiation which lasted over 24 h. (R,S)-alpha-Methyl-4-carboxyphenylglycine (200 mM/5 microliters), a metabotropic glutamate receptor antagonist, when applied prior to high-frequency tetanus and ADA or 3,5-dihydroxyphenylglycine, completely inhibited this effect. ADA applied 10,15,20 and 25 min after high-frequency tetanus also facilitated short-term potentiation into long-term potentiation, but the magnitude of long-term potentiation was smaller than than produced by ADA given 5 min after tetanus. Similar effects were seen with 3,5-dihydroxyphenylglycine applied 25 min after high-frequency tetanus. When (R,S)-alpha-methyl-4-carboxyphenylglycine was applied prior to high-frequency tetanus and ADA or 3,5-dihydroxyphenylglycine applied 30 min after high-frequency tetanus, or after short-term potentiation decay, elicited no facilitation of long-term potentiation. These results indicate that a distinct time window for the enhancement by ADA and 3,5-dihydroxyphenylglycine of short-term potentiation into long-term potentiation occurs in the dentate gyrus in vivo. This suggests that metabotropic glutamate receptor activation in long-term potentiation occurs within a finite period of time and may be mediated by group 1 metabotropic glutamate receptors. Furthermore, it suggests that metabotropic glutamate receptor modulation of N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors does not account for the role of metabotropic glutamate receptors in long-term potentiation.
Polyclonal antibodies against specific carboxy-terminal sequences of known alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionate (AMPA) receptor subunits (GluR-4) were used to screen regional homogenates and subcellular fractions from rat brain. Affinity purified anti-GluR1 (against amino acids 877-899), anti-GluR2/3 (850-862), and anti-GluR4a and anti-GluR4b (868-881) labeled distinct subunits with the expected molecular weight of approximately 105,000. These antigens were shown to have distinct distributions in the brain. While GluR2/3 epitopes had a distribution profile similar to that of the presynaptic marker synaptophysin, GluR1 was notable for its abundance in the hippocampus and its relatively low density in neocortical areas, and GluR4 was highly enriched in cerebellar tissue. An additional antigen (glutamate receptor-related, GR53) of lower molecular weight (50,000-59,000) was recognized in rat, human, frog, chick and goldfish brain samples by anti-GluR4a as well as by anti-GluR1 at, an antibody that specifically recognizes the extracellular aminoterminal domain of GluR1 (amino acids 163-188). Both antibodies also labeled antigens of approximately 105,000 mol. wt in brain tissue from all species tested. The approximately 53,000 mol. wt antigen was concentrated 10-20-fold in synaptic membranes vs homogenates across rat brain regions. Both the 105,000 and the 53,000 mol. wt proteins were also concentrated in postsynaptic densities, and neither of the two antigens were evident in seven non-brain tissue samples. These data indicate that AMPA receptors have regionally different subunit combinations and that some AMPA receptor composites include proteins other than the conventional 105,000 mol. wt GluR subunits.
It is well known that high potassium (K+) solutions introduced by microdialysis into normal brain increase the extracellular concentration of the excitatory amino acid glutamate, and in vitro studies suggest that a high exogenously applied glutamate concentration can produce excitotoxic neuronal death. However, only recently were in vivo studies undertaken to determine whether high-K+ exposure damages neurons. We implanted microdialysis probes into rat amygdalae bilaterally, and after a 2-h baseline period exposed one side to a modified Krebs-Ringer-bicarbonate solution containing 100 mmol/l KCl for 30,50 and 70 min, followed by a 2-h recovery period, and 70 min and 3 h without a recovery period. Of 100.9 +/- 2.0 mmol/l KCl, 12.0 +/- 1.0% was extracted by amygdalar tissue in vivo. Election of the extracellular K+ concentration in the amygdala for 70 min or longer without a recovery period produced extensive neuronal damage and edematous-appearing neuropil in the tissue dialysed, as well as loss of normal neurons. Histological evidence of edema subsided in the groups with a 2-h recovery period. Although the number of damaged neurons was not significantly higher in the group with a 70 min high-K+ exposure and 2-h recovery period, the number of normal neurons was reduced, suggesting cell loss. During 70-min high-K+ exposure, the extracellular glutamate concentration increased to 242-377% of baseline during the first 60 min, and extracellular aspartate rose to 162-213% during the first 50 min; extracellular taurine rose even higher, to 316-567% of baseline, and glutamine fell to 14-27% of baseline. Extracellular serine was decreased at 20, 50 and 70 min of high-K+ exposure; extracellular glycine was unchanged. The elevated extracellular glutamate and aspartate concentrations suggest that exposure of the amygdala to high extracellular K+ may produce cell death through an excitotoxic process, and point the way to future studies to define the specific mechanisms involved.
Using both immunohistochemistry and in situ hybridization, we examined the rat brain for the expression of the inducible 70,000 mol. wt heat shock protein, Hsp70, at 3,6,12 and 24 h after systemic administration of kainic acid. In contrast to previous reports, the present study demonstrates that neurons in the regions most susceptible to seizure-induced cell death accumulate both Hsp70 messenger RNA and protein. Neurons in the denate hilus and piriform cortex contained Hsp70 messenger RNA at 6 h and protein at 12 h. These neutrons contained little or no Hsp70 messenger RNA or protein at 24 h when the majority of cells in these area were pyknotic. Injured neurons in areas such as the parietal cortex, which are less susceptible to seizure-induced cell death, expressed and maintained high levels of Hsp70 messenger RNA and protein at 12 and 24 h. This work suggest that Hsp70 messenger RNA and protein are rapidly and transiently expressed in dying neurons, and contradicts the notion that Hsp70 only accumulates in injured neurons that survive.
Growing evidence suggests that non-N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor activation may contribute to neuronal death in both acute and chronic neurological diseases. The intracellular processes that mediate this form of neuronal death are poorly understood. We have previously characterized a model of kainate neurotoxicity using cerebellar granule cell neurons in vitro and we sought to determine the mechanism of kainate-induced neurons degeneration. We found DNA, and chromatin condensation using a fluorescent DNA intercalating dye, in cerebellar granule cells following exposure to kainate (100 microM). Aurintricarboxylic acid protected cerebellar granule cells from kainate-induced death. While the morphological and biochemical features of neuronal death induced by kainate resembled low-K(+)-induced apoptosis in cerebellar granule cells; the time interval from the institution of the death-promoting condition to neuronal death was briefer with kainate and did not require new protein or RNA synthesis. These results demonstrate that kainate receptor activation can induce transcription-independent apoptosis in neurons. This in vitro model should be useful in identifying the intracellular pathways that link kainate receptor activation with apoptosis.
Cortical structures such as the hippocampus and cerebral cortex are considered to be particularly susceptible to seizure and epileptiform electrical activity and, as such, are the focus of intense investigation relative to hyperexcitability. To determine whether parallel glutamate-mediated hyperexcitability and seizure-like activity in the rat can be generated by neurons irrespective of their origin within the CNS, we maintained cells from the spinal cord,hippocampus, olfactory bulb, striatum, hypothalamus, and cortex in the long-term presence of glutamate receptor antagonists 2-amino-5-phosphonovalerate and 6-cyano-7-nitroquinoxaline-2-3-dione. After removal of chronic (three to 11 weeks) glutamate receptor block, whole-cell patch-clamp recordings from current-clamped neurons (n = 94) revealed an immediate increase in large excitatory postsynaptic potentials and a depolarization of 20-35 mV that was often sustained for recording periods lasting 5 min (54% of 66 neurons from all six areas). The intense activity was not seen in age-matched control neurons not subjected to chronic glutamate receptor block. Selective blockade of ionotropic glutamate receptors showed that the hyperexcitability was due to an enhanced response through both AMPA/kainate and N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors. Relief from chronic glutamate receptor block also increased inhibitory activity, as revealed by an increase in inhibitory postsynaptic currents while neurons were voltage-clamped at -25 mV. These inhibitory postsynaptic currents could be blocked with bicuculline, indicating that they were mediated by an enhanced GABA release. This enhanced GABA activity reduced, but did not eliminate, the glutamate-mediated hyperactivity, shown by an increase in both intracellular Ca2+ and excitatory electrical activity when bicuculline was added. When the glutamate receptor block was removed, cells (n &gt; 1000) from all six regions showed exaggerated Ca2+ activity, characterized by abnormally high increases in intracellular Ca2+, rising from basal levels of 50-100 nM up to 150-1600 nM. Cd2+ eliminated the hyperexcitability by blocking Ca2+ channels, and reducing excitatory transmitter release and response. Fura-2 digital imaging revealed Ca2+ oscillations with periods ranging from 4 to 60 s. Ca2+ peaks in oscillations in oscillations were synchronized among most neurons recorded simultaneously. That synchronization was dependent on a mechanism involving voltage-dependent Na+ channels was demonstrated with experiments with tetrodotoxin that blocked Ca2+ rises and synchronous cellular behavior. Removal of the glutamate receptor antagonists resulted in the glutamate-mediated death of 44% of the cells after 23 days of chronic block and 82% cell death after 40 days of chronic block. Nimodipine substantially reduced cell death, indicating that one mechanism responsible for the enhanced cell death after relief from chronic glutamate receptor block was increased intracellular Ca2+ entry through L-type voltage-gated calcium channels. These data indicate that glutamate is released by neurons from all areas studied, including the spinal cord. Sufficient amounts of glutamate can be released from axon terminals from all areas to cause cell hippocampal and cortical neurons, but also by neurons from any of the brain regions tested after chronic deprivation of glutamate receptor stimulation during development. This hyperexcitability is mediated by glutamatergic mechanisms independent of the specific excitatory connections existing in vivo. The epileptiform activity of neurons from one region is indistinguishable from that of another in culture, underlining the importance of synaptic connections in vivo that define the responses characteristic of neurons from different brain regions.
It is hypothesized that the cholinergic and monoaminergic neurons of the brain from a global network. What is meant by a global network is that these neurons operate as a unified whole, generating widespread patterns of activity in concert with particular electroencephalographic states, moods and cognitive gestalts. Apart from cholinergic and monoaminergic global systems, most other mammalian neurons relay sensory information about the external and internal milieu to serially ordered loci. These &quot;serial&quot; neurons are neurochemically distinct from global neurons and commonly use small molecule amino acid neurotransmitters such as glutamate or aspartate. Viewing the circuitry of the mammalian brain within the global-serial dichotomy leads to a number of novel interpretations and predictions. Global systems seem to be capable of transforming incoming sensory data into cognitive-related activity patterns. A comparative examination of global and serial systems anatomy, development and physiology reveals how global systems might turn sensation into mentation. An important step in this process is the permanent encoding of memory. Global neurons are particularly plastic, as are the neurons receiving global inputs. Global afferents appear to be capable of reorganizing synapses on recipient serial cells, thus leading to enhanced responding to a signal, in a particular context and state of arousal.
Expression of the weakly adhesive, highly sialylated isoform of the neural cell adhesion molecule is a feature common to cell capable of migration and conformation changes. 11,18,19 Polysialylated neural cell adhesion molecule also intervenes in axonal outgrowth and synaptogenesis during development and after lesion. 11,13 High levels of polysialylated neural cell adhesion molecule immunoreactivity are normally visible in laminae I,II and X of the adult rat spinal cord. 2,15 We how here that unilateral cervical dorsal rhizotomy induced no detectable changes in immunoreactivity in these areas. However, 24 h after lesion, polysialylated neural cell adhesion molecule immunoreactivity appeared in neurons scattered in laminae III-IX, ipsi-and contralateral to lesion. This reaction increased particularly on the contralateral side, became maximal at four days and disappeared eight days later. At this time, there was immunolabelling of astrocytes with an activated morphology. The astrocytic labelling, predominant on the side ipsilateral to the lesion, was strongest 12 days after rhizotomy, then diminished progressively. Deafferentation thus causes a transient expression of polysialylated neural cell adhesion molecule within areas of the spinal cord distinct from those which permanently express this adhesion molecule. Such expression occurs both in neurons and glial cells, with a temporal pattern specific to each type of cell.
For the past 60 years, the Montreal Neurological Institute and Hospital and three associated McGill University teaching hospitals have provided a broad course of instruction in neurosurgery and the related neurosciences. This integrated program offers a wealth of experience in adult and pediatric neurosurgery, based on a total of 140 beds, covering a full range of general and subspecialty neurosurgery. The institute, recognized for many years as a world center for epilepsy surgery, has traditional strengths in the treatment of brain tumors and cerebrovascular and spinal disorders; it has been at the cutting edge of brain imaging in all modalities applied to neurosurgical diagnosis and cerebral localization, including three-dimensional monitoring in the operating room. New approaches to stereotactic procedures have been developed in conjunction with imaging technology, including functional neurosurgery and the versatile McGill double rotation method for radiosurgery with a linear accelerator. Experience in managing trauma, pediatric cases, and general neurosurgical problems is gained at the Montreal General Hospital, the Montreal Children's Hospital, and the Jewish General Hospital. Well-established research units, including burgeoning groups in neurogenetics, molecular neurobiology, and neural regeneration, provide a wide variety of academic opportunities to provide trainees with a sound basis for coping with the rapidly advancing field of neurosurgery.

Changes in analgesia, play behavior, sexual behavior and responsiveness to stress and stimulants have been reported in rodents treated in utero with opiates. During development the endogenous opioids and opioid receptors are present in a tonic balance in the mammalian nervous system. The development of this balance is particularly sensitive to prenatal administration of opioid agonists and antagonists. The motivational and rewarding aspects of play behavior are probably controlled by endogenous opioid systems; low doses of opioids stimulate play behavior, whereas administration of opioid antagonists attenuates play behavior. We have analyzed the effect of morphine administration during the prenatal development of endogenous opioid systems on play behavior in juvenile rats. The doses of morphine used neither affected gestation of pregnant mother rats nor sensorimotor development of the juvenile rats. Levels of social play were elevated in juvenile rats after prenatal exposure to morphine. Social behaviors not related to play and non-social activities were not affected by the prenatal treatment procedure. To study these changes in more detail, social play was investigated using a sequential analysis in prenatally morphine-and saline-exposed pairs. The sequential structure of behavior was not altered by the in utero exposure to morphine. Quantitatively, increases in behavioral transitions were found between behaviors related to play. The prenatal morphine treatment did not affect transitions between behaviors not related to play. It is concluded that the prenatal exposure to morphine did not affect mechanisms underlying play behavior itself, but is probably affecting more general phenomena like reward or motivation to play.
Microglial cells are exquisitely sensitive to neuronal damage. Neurons which have been damaged by an injury or a neurotoxicant will stimulate microglia in their immediate vicinity to become activated and undergo a series of morphologic and phenotypic changes. The changes occurring on microglial cells can be documented quite readily using histochemical methods, and it is suggested that the histological demonstration of microglial activation can serve as a very sensitive biological marker for neuron damage. While the functional significance of microglial activation is unknown, there is evidence to suggest that microglia may exert both neurotrophic and neurotoxic effects. However, proving that these functions are indeed carried out by microglia in vivo remains a formidable challenge for future investigations.
Inflammation of the temporomandibular joint (TMJ) region evokes pain and hyperalgesia as well as causing persistent changes in the response properties of central trigeminal neurons. To determine if excitatory amino acids have a role in TMJ-induced responses, extracellular concentrations were measured in microdialysate samples from probes positioned in the spinal trigeminal nucleus (Vsp) near the transition region between subnucleus interpolaris and subnucleus caudalis (Vi/Vc) in chloralose-anesthetized rats. Injection of the selective small fiber excitant, mustard oil (20 microliters, 20% solution), into the ipsilateral TMJ region caused a transient (by 10 min) increase in glutamate (from 0.48 +/- 0.16 to 1.94 +/- 0.78 microM, P &lt; 0.005) and aspartate (from 0.29 +/- 0.11 to 1.78 +/- 0.82 microM, P &lt; 0.025) among sites located at the ventrolateral pole of the Vi/Vc transition region (n = 6). Samples from probes located within the ventral Vsp, but outside this Vi/Vc transition region (n = 9), did not show significant changes in amino acid concentrations. Glutamate and aspartate also increased after mustard oil injections into the contralateral TMJ region. Dialysate concentrations of serine and taurine did not change significantly after mustard oil injections. Addition of high potassium (150 mM) to the perfusate solution caused increases in glutamate and aspartate regardless of probe location. The transient and selective release of glutamate and aspartate within the Vi/Vc transition after acute irritation of the TMJ region is consistent with a proposed role for excitatory amino acids in mediating noxious sensory input from deep orofacial structures. Together with previous reports of c-fos expression, these results suggest that neurons within the ventrolateral portion of the Vi/Vc transition may serve as a relay site for the integration of sensory or reflex responses to acute inflammation of the TMJ region.
We studied the immunohistochemical localization of the glutamate receptor subunits GluR1, GluR2/3, and GluR4 in brains of Down syndrome patients and of normal controls. In cerebral cortex of both the control and Down syndrome patients, weak GluR1 immunoreactivity was observed in the cytoplasm of neurons, especially pyramidal neurons, after 34 weeks of gestation. In Down syndrome patients, the staining of the neurons became more distinct after 21 years of age. After 32 years of age in Down syndrome patients, GluR1 immunoreactivity was also observed in the senile plaques, including the diffuse, primitive, and classic plaques. The immunoreactivity was observed in a cluster of several small swollen neurites in the senile plaques. GluR2/3 and GluR4 immunoreactivity was also observed in the cytoplasm of neurons, especially pyramidal neurons, after 34 weeks of gestation in controls and Down syndrome patients, but not in senile plaques. GluR4 immunoreactivity was also observed in the cell processes of astrocytes in both the normal and the Down syndrome brains. Excessive immunoreactivity of GluR1 may be involved in degeneration of neurons and the early formation of senile plaques in Down syndrome.
Substance P and glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) immunohistochemistry was applied to the medulla of neonatal infants who died of sudden infant death syndrome (SIDS). A quantitative analysis of cells demonstrating immunoreactivity to GFAP and substance P in 15 neonatal SIDS cases revealed increased GFAP immunoreactivity in the reticular formation, the dorsal vagal nucleus, and the solitary nucleus and an increase in substance P immunoreactivity in the spinal trigeminal nucleus and the solitary nucleus as compared with that in age-matched controls. GFAP immunopositivity suggests astrogliosis which implies a pathologic insult to neurons in the area of astrogliosis. The failure of neurons in these sites to show enhanced substance P immunopositivity may indirectly indicate altered neurons. Further study of prenatal events may be of importance in clarifying the pathogenesis of neonatal SIDS.
Voltage-gated K+ channels are modulated by extracellular free unsaturated fatty acids. Both increases and attenuations of K+ channels activities have been observed. We studied the effect of cis-unsaturated fatty acids on Shaker B delta6-46 and the endogenous outward rectifier K+ channels expressed in COS cell line, using the whole cell recording technique. For both K+ channels, exogenously applied unsaturated fatty acids dramatically increased the outward K+ currents. This enhancement was not mediated by cylooxygenase or epoxygenase (P450) enzymes. However, nordihydroguaiaretic acid, a lipoxygenase metabolic pathway blocker, did prevent the arachidonic acid-induced Shaker current enhancement.
Pharmacological characterization of ion channels and receptors in cultured neurons or transfected cell lines requires microapplication of multiple drug solutions during electrophysiological recording. An ideal device could apply a large number of solutions to a limited area with rapid arrival and removal of drug solutions. We describe a novel &quot;multipuffer&quot; rapid application device, based on a modified T-tube with a nozzle made from a glass micropipette tip. Drug solutions are drawn via suction from open reservoirs mounted above the recording chamber through the device into a waste trap. Closure of a solenoid valve between the device and the waste trap causes flow of drug solution though the T-tube nozzle. Any number of drug solutions can be applied with rapid onset (50-100 ms) after a brief fixed delay (100-200 ms). Recombinant alpha1beta1gamma2S GABAA receptors (GABARs) transfected into L929 fibroblasts were recorded using whole-cell and single-channel configurations. Application of GABA resulted in chloride currents with an EC50 of 12.2 microM and a Hill slope of 1.27, suggesting more than one binding site for GABA. GABAR currents were enhanced by diazepam and pentobarbital and inhibited by bicuculline and picrotoxin. Single-channel recordings revealed a main conductance state of 26-28 pS. This device is particularly suitable for rapid, spatially controlled drug applications onto neurons or other cells recorded in the whole-cell configuration, but is also appropriate for isolated single-channel or multichannel membrane patch recordings.
A central goal of the Neurosciences is to provide an account of how the brain works in terms of cell groups organised into pattern generating networks. This review focuses on the neural network that generates the rapid movements of the eyes that are called saccades. A brief description of the metrical and dynamical properties of saccades is provided first. Data obtained from lesion and electrical stimulation experiments are then described; these indicate that the relevant neural machinery spreads over at least 10 distinct cortical and subcortical regions of the brain. Each one of these regions harbors several distinct classes of saccade related cells (i.e. cells whose discharge encodes the metrical and often dynamical properties of saccades). The morphological and physiological properties of about 30 saccade related cell classes are described. To generate the signals they carry, and therefore saccades, distinct classes of cells influence each other in a non-random manner. Anatomical evidence is provided that indicates the existence of about 100 distinct connections established between saccade related neurons. The overall picture of the saccadic system that emerges from these studies is one of intricate complexity. In part this is due to the presence of at least 3, multiply interconnected negative feedback loops. Several computational models of the saccadic system have been proposed in an attempt to understand the functional significance of the simultaneous operation of these loops. An evaluation of these models demonstrates that besides providing a coherent summary of the data that concern it, successful models of the saccadic system generate realistic saccades (in precise quantitative psychophysical terms) when their elements are stimulated, produce abnormal saccades, reminiscent of those encountered in the clinic, when their elements are disabled, while their constituent units display realistic discharge patterns and are connected in a manner that respects anatomy.
Activation of the proto-oncogene c-fos in the brain was described initially almost a decade ago and represents one of the most studied immediate early genes in the brain. Transient c-fos expression in the central nervous system was first observed after seizure activity and following noxious stimulation in the spinal cord. Since then, multiple studies have shown that different stimuli can induce c-fos expression. Seizure activity induces rapid and transient expression of c-fos in hippocampal structures. Similarly, transient activation of c-fos follows cortical brain injury in a pattern that resembles that of spreading depression. Many other stimuli have been shown to induce the expression of this proto-oncogene in the brain and c-fos immunostaining and in situ hybridization are now used to map brain metabolism under different physiological and non-physiological conditions. Here we review the variety of inducible patterns of c-fos expression in the brain.
1. Five adult cats were prepared with standard sleep-recording electrodes, microinjection cannulae in the bilateral mesopontine tegmentum X area and cannulae for microdialysis probes in the LGN. 2. Dialysates were collected at 5 min intervals during SWS, REM sleep and wakefulness, and during pre- and post-stimulation periods of 5MeODMT microinjection in the bilateral mesopontine tegmentum of freely moving cats. 3. A REM sleep-specific increase of ACh release was observed in the LGN, but not out of the LGN. 4. ACh release was depressed up to 33% by bilateral 5MeODMT microinjection in the mesopontine tegmentum where the microinjection of carbachol also depressed ACh in the LGN probably by stimulating the auto receptor. 5. Our observations indicate that PGO-on neurons of mesopontine tegmentum release more ACh in the LGN during REM sleep by burst discharge than during wakefulness and SWS, and that presumptive cholinergic PGO-on cells are regulated by serotonergic inputs.
Late onset vacuous chewing movements (VCMs) from chronic neuroleptic treatment have been used as a rat model of tardive dyskinesia (TD). Early onset VCMs have also been observed, raising questions about the validity of this model. To assess the relationship between these two types of VCMs, pharmacological and neurochemical properties of early and late onset VCMs were compared. &quot;Acute&quot; VCMs were induced by daily intraperitoneal injections for 1-21 days. &quot;Tardive&quot; VCMs were induced by intramuscular injections of haloperidol decanoate every 3 weeks for 30 weeks followed by a 24-week withdrawal period. Suppression was attempted for both types of VCMs using several doses of intraperitoneal haloperidol. Striatonigral activation was assessed by measuring mRNA expression levels of the neuropeptides dynorphin and substance P using in situ hybridization histochemistry. Enkephalin mRNA was also measured as an index of striatopallidal activation. The results indicate that acute VCMs cannot be suppressed with increased doses of haloperidol and are associated with reduced dynorphin and substance P. This profile is similar to that seen with an animal model of parkinsonism. Tardive VCMs, in contrast, were markedly suppressed by haloperidol. They have previously been shown to be associated with increased striatonigral activation as indicated by increased dynorphin mRNA. Enkephalin mRNA was elevated following both short and long term treatment. Although superficially similar, acute and tardive VCMs appear to have different pharmacological and neurochemical profiles, suggesting they are related to acute extrapyramidal side effects and tardive dyskinesia, respectively.
Cessation of chronic administration of orally administered large amounts of ethanol for 7 days resulted in a markedly increased frequency of audiogenic seizures in Sprague-Dawley rats. Oral administration of the novel glycine receptor antagonist, L-701,324, produced a dose-dependent (2.5 and 5.0 mg/kg; -30 min) inhibition of ethanol withdrawal signs when measured about 12 h after withdrawal of the ethanol treatment. Similarly, using the same experimental paradigm, oral administration of the specific polyamine receptor antagonist, eliprodil, caused a dose-related (2.0 and 5.0 mg/kg; -30 min) inhibition of ethanol withdrawal-induced audiogenic seizure activity. The inhibition of ethanol withdrawal seizures produced by L-701,324 and eliprodil, respectively, was obtained at doses which by themselves did not change the locomotor activity in naive Sprague-Dawley rats. The findings that L-701,324 and eliprodil are potent inhibitors of seizure activity induced by cessation of chronic ethanol administration and the fact that they, in contrast to currently available NMDA receptor antagonists, do not produce psychotomimetic and/or sedative effects, suggest that these drugs may represent a new class of therapeutically useful pharmacological agents for the treatment of ethanol withdrawal seizures. Furthermore, since there is evidence that eliprodil produces its pharmacological actions through a specific inhibition of NMDAR1 and/or NMDAR2B subunits, these data may indicate that certain NMDA receptor subunits may be of particular importance for the mediation of seizure activity following the discontinuation of chronic ethanol exposure.

Goal directed behaviour is often internally generated which implies that the generation of action involves a representational step. One of the challenges of cognitive neuroscience is to discover the neural mechanism that underlies the representation of both intention and goal and fuses them into an integrated action. This paper reviews neurophysiological data gathered from different sorts of paradigms that reveal the presence of underlying neural processes which can be related to representations for action. Taken together, these data lead to the notion of distributed representations stored as patterns of activation networks.
Transcription factors act to regulate gene expression. Many transcription factor families have been discovered based on their roles in cell cycle events involved in development and oncogenesis. In post-mitotic neuronal cells, however, many transcription factor genes are &quot;trans-synaptically&quot; regulated: their patterns of expression can be dramatically altered by extracellular stimuli. Transcription factor proteins can then potently influence expression of other genes, whose products can directly alter neuronal function. The central nervous system (CNS) displays varying degrees of neuroplasticity in adult life. Flexible neurochemical pathways that link extracellular stimuli to long-term modifications in neuronal functions are likely to contribute substantially to this neuroplasticity. This review summarizes evidence supporting central roles for transcription factors in such neurochemical cascades. It furthermore illustrates how drugs of abuse can trigger and modulate neuroadaptive processes that could conceivably contribute to clinically relevant addiction phenomena such as craving, tolerance, sensitization, and withdrawal.
Glia cell line-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF) is a novel type of neurotrophic factor cloned in 1993. Recent research revealed that it may have potential application in the treatment of Parkinson's disease and motor neuron diseases. This short review summarized the character of the protein, gene structure, tissue distribution, and its physiological functions and pathological implications.

A simple method for differentiating human-derived SH-SY5Y neuroblastoma cells to provide a stable, mature, neuronal morphology is described. SH-SY5Y cells can be induced to differentiate terminally with retinoic acid in medium with low levels of serum. The morphological differentiation of the parental cell line SK-N-SH was compared with that seen in the SH-SY5Y cells. Changes in the cytoskeleton of SH-SY5Y cells indicated that differentiation proceeds continuously over the 1-month period studied after initiating differentiation. Immunoblot analysis demonstrated increased expression of the high molecular weight neurofilament polypeptide NF-H, the microtubule-associated protein tau, and the synaptic vesicle-associated protein synapsin I, indicating that an increasingly mature, neuronal phenotype was being expressed. The cultures were not dependent on retinoic acid for continued survival. SH-SY5Y cultures differentiated over extended periods should provide a good in vitro model for studying the neurotoxic potential of compounds and mechanisms of toxicity, particularly in longer-term or multiple exposure studies, for example on cytoskeletal function, where acute toxicity is not the aspect of interest.
To understand the specific functions of Ca(2+)-channel types it is necessary to know how they are distributed within neurons. The unique structure of the magnocellular neurosecretory cells of the rat supraoptic nucleus has made it possible to obtain whole-cell recordings from individual somata and axon terminals acutely isolated from adult rats. Characterization of elicited Ca2+ currents in these cells has demonstrated that certain types are segregated in somata or axon terminals, and that current types defined pharmacologically can display different kinetic properties in the two loci. Observed biophysical properties correlate with functional requirements in the two compartments and have implications for the roles of specific Ca(2+)-channel subtypes.
Polysialic acid (PSA), a homopolymer attached to the neural cell adhesion molecule (NCAM), serves as a modulator of cell interactions. Polysialic acid exhibits a highly regulated expression pattern. During embryonic development its abundant expression is closely correlated with axon pathfinding and targeting, and with certain aspects of muscle formation. Its level also can be altered by synaptic activity. During neonatal development and in the adult brain, PSA expression is more restricted, being primarily associated with regions capable of morphological or physiological plasticity. The ability to perturb PSA in vivo by a specific glycosidase and by the creation of NCAM-deficient mice has led to extensive analysis of its biological function. These studies suggest that the primary role of PSA is to promote changes in cell interactions and thereby facilitate plasticity in the structure and function of the nervous system.
N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors belong to the family of ionotropic glutamate receptors. NMDA receptors were named after the specific glutamate-like synthetic agonist N-methyl-D-aspartate. In the past decade, an increasing number of functional sites have been discovered and used to refine the operational definition of NMDA receptors. The goal to characterize the molecular substrate underlying the heretofore strictly operationally defined NMDA receptors has come into reach following the cloning of a number of cDNAs coding for NMDA receptor subunits. However, in their review, Nikolaus Sucher and colleagues show that caution should be exercised in comparing the pharmacological properties of recombinant NMDA receptors to those of native neurones. Future work on NMDA receptors will be challenged to reconcile disparate effects obtained with recombinant versus native receptors.

The threshold intensity for large-long incremental stimuli rises proportionally to adapting background luminance IB (Weber adaptation), but the intensity required to evoke a criterion high-brightness sensation rises much less steeply. We propose that this difference originates in the very first stage of visual processing, in the phototransduction and adaptation properties of the retinal photoreceptor cells. A physiological model previously found to account for visual latency and brightness as functions of stimulus intensity in the dark-adapted state [Donner, K. (1989). Visual Neuroscience, 3, 39-51] is extended to cover different states of adaptation. It is assumed that the neural coding of high intensities is based on the rate of rise (quasi-derivative) of the photoreceptor response just after it reaches a small threshold amplitude. The shallow background adaptation functions for high-brightness criteria emerge as a consequence of the relative constancy of the leading edge of large responses under backgrounds, a phenomenon that can be formally described by compensating changes in photoreceptor sensitivity and time scale. We first test the model on supra-threshold responses in the frog retina, where the discharge rate of ganglion cells (a possible neural code for brightness) and the primary rod hyperpolarizations can be recorded under identical conditions. The two are related as predicted over at least 3 log units of background intensity. We then show that published data on the background adaptation of human foveal high brightness judgments conform to the same model, assuming that human cones accelerate as IB-b with b = 0.14-0.15.
The perceived direction of motion of plaids windowed by elongated spatial Gaussians is biased toward the window's long axis. The bias increases as the relative angle between the plaid motion and the long axis of the window increases, peaks at a relative angle of approximately 45 deg, and then decreases. The bias increases as the window is made narrower (at fixed height) and decreases as the component spatial frequency increases (at fixed aperture size). We examine several models of human motion processing (cross-correlation, motion-energy, intersection-of-constraints, and vector-sum), and show that none of these standard models can predict our data. We conclude that spatial integration of motion signals plays a crucial role in plaid motion perception and that current models must be explicitly expanded to include such spatial interactions.
Recent studies indicate that competitive and non-competitive NMDA receptor antagonists can be readily distinguished by their effects on local cerebral glucose utilisation (1CGU). In the present study we compare the effects of the novel NMDA antagonist, (+)-1-methyl-1phenyl-1,2,3,4-tetrahydroisoquinoline (FR115427) on 1CGU, comparing its metabolic profile with that of the non-competitive NMDA receptor antagonist, dizocilpine (MK801) and of the competitive NMDA receptor antagonist CGS19755, using the 2-deoxyglucose metabolic mapping approach. Local cerebral glucose utilisation was measured in 80 anatomically discrete regions of the conscious rat brain using [14C]2-deoxyglucose quantitative autoradiography. Studies were initiated 10 min after the administration of FR115427 (0.1-3 mg/kg i.v.; n = 20), dizocilpine (0.03-0.3 mg/kg; n = 15), CGS19755 (1-30 mg/kg; n = 15) or saline (2 ml/kg; n = 5). Dizocilpine produced characteristic alterations in 1CGU with widespread increases in 1CGU in primary olfactory and limbic areas while reducing 1CGU in somatosensory and motor cortex. FR115427 produced a pattern of altered 1CGU which was broadly similar to that elicited by dizocilpine with increases in 1CGU in the pontine nuclei, presubiculum and hippocampus and reductions in somatosensory and motor cortex and within components of the auditory system. However, FR115427 was approximately 30-fold less potent than dizocilpine in this regard. In limbic structures, the effects of FR115427 were less pronounced than those produced by dizocilpine. Increases in 1CGU of 62-98% were found in retrosplenial, piriform and entorhinal cortex of dizocilpine-treated rats whereas these areas appeared relatively unaffected following FR115427 administration. A comparison of the pattern of metabolic response produced by each of these agents was performed by constructing a hierarchy of regional responsiveness using the f statistic: while focal differences in the metabolic profiles of dizocilpine and FR115427 were evident, a plot of the regional f values for dizocilpine and FR115427 revealed a strong overall relationship between the metabolic responses with a Pearson's product moment correlation of 0.78. In contrast, the correlation between the patterns produced by CGS19755 and that for dizocilpine or FR115427 was poor (r = 0.28 and 0.5 respectively).
Membrane remodeling was imaged in vivo in brains of rats with a 2-week-old right-sided ablation of the nucleus basalis magnocellularis (NBM). To do this, [9,10-3H]palmitic acid ([3H]PAM) was injected intravenously and regional brain incorporation k* of tracer was determined with quantitative autoradiography after 20 min circulation. In NBM-lesioned animals, k* was elevated significantly (by up to 17%) in 11 ipsilateral frontal or parietal cortical regions, more so in layer 1 than in layers IV and V. Unoperated animals showed no right-left difference in k*, whereas sham-operated animals showed some unilateral effects of damage due to the needle track. Circulating [3H]PAM is incorporated into sn-1 positions of brain phospholipids, mainly phosphatidylcholine, and its rate of turnover is thought to reflect turnover of neuronal and glial membranes. These results, when related to published evidence of altered cortical phospholipid metabolism in NBM-lesioned rats, suggest that images of increased [3H]PAM incorporation into ipsilateral cortex reflect increased membrane remodeling involving phospholipids.
Behavioral contexts can evoke a variety of autonomic modes of response, characterized by reciprocal, coactive, or independent changes in the autonomic divisions. The present study investigated the modes of autonomic response to visual illusion and mental arithmetic tasks, by the use of noninvasive measures of sympathetic (pre-ejection period; PEP) and parasympathetic (respiratory sinus arrhythmia; RSA) cardiac control. As previously demonstrated, mental arithmetic was associated with a reciprocal pattern of sympathetic activation and vagal withdrawal. The illusion task, however, yielded a distinct mode of vagal activation in the absence of sympathetic change. Responses within tasks were reliable. In contrast to the general intertask consistency reported for stress tasks that yield similar autonomic modes of response, however, neither PEP nor RSA responses were correlated across the illusion and arithmetic tasks. This may be attributable to the dissimilar modes of autonomic control evoked by these tasks. The distinct modes of autonomic response to arithmetic and illusions emphasize the importance of a bivariate model of autonomic control, and may offer important experimental tools for psychophysiological studies of autonomic control.
Final extents of fusion of influenza virus (A/PR/8/34 strain) with neutral and partially acidic liposomes were monitored with (i) a fluorescence resonance energy-transfer assay in which the liposomes were labeled and (ii) by the dequenching of octadecylrhodamine, initially incorporated in the viral membrane. The latter assay was also employed in the fusion of influenza virus and Sendai virus with erythrocyte ghosts. In all cases, a phenomenon of partial fusion activity of the virus was observed, which is distinct from low pH inactivation. The unfused influenza or Sendai virions, which were separated by sucrose gradient centrifugation from liposomes or erythrocyte ghosts exhibited again partial fusion activity toward freshly added liposomes or ghosts, respectively. The conclusion is that the fraction of initially bound and unfused virions does not consist of defective particles, but rather of particles bound to the target membranes via inactive sites on the virus (or on cellular membranes), or else, partial fusion activity is a manifestation of a certain probability of production of fusion inactive sites by irreversible association of viral glycoproteins or peptides in the target membrane.
HP-236 (3-[4-[4-(6-Fluorobenzo[b]thien-3-yl)-1-piperazinyl]butyl]-2,5,5- trimethyl-4-thiazolidinone maleate; P-9236) (54) displayed a pharmacological profile indicative of potential atypical antipsychotic activity. A series of piperazinyl butyl thiazolidinones structurally related to this compound were prepared and evaluated in vitro for dopamine D2 and serotonin 5HT2 and 5HT1A receptor affinity. The compounds were examined in vivo in animal models of potential antipsychotic activity and screened in models predictive of extrapyramidal side effect (EPS) liability. The synthesis of these compounds, details of their structure-activity relationships, and discovery of a new lead, compound 50, as well as further development of the profiles of compounds 50 and 54 are described.
Corticotropin-releasing factor (CRF) receptors in IMR-32 human neuroblastoma cells were characterized after differentiation with 2.5 microM 5'-bromo-2'-deoxyuridine for 10 days. Scatchard analysis of [125I-Tyr0]ovine CRF binding revealed a high affinity binding site with a dissociation constant of 0.59 nM and a maximum binding capacity of 142 fmol/mg, the affinity of which was decreased by guanosine 5'-o-(3-thiotriphosphate). This binding was displaced in the following order of potency: human/rat CRF &gt; ovine CRF &gt; urotensin I &gt; sauvagine &gt; bovine CRF &gt; [D-Phe12, Nle21,38, C alpha-MeLeu37]human/rat CRF-(12-41) &gt; alpha-helical CRF-(9-41), indicative of the CRF1 receptor subtype. Functional coupling of this receptor was confirmed by CRF-induced increases in cyclic AMP, which were antagonised by alpha-helical CRF-(9-41) and [D-Phe12,Nle21,38,C alpha-MeLeu37] human/rat CRF-(12-41).
This study uses immediate early transcription factor gene expression to map neuronal activation after a single exposure to the elevated X-maze. Exposure to this novel environment leads to widespread upregulation in the gene expression of c-fos, NGFI-A and NGFI-B (the nerve growth factor induced genes), but not c-jun nor jun B as shown by in situ hybridization and northern blot analysis. Changes in c-fos were evident after just 5 min exposure to the maze. The cholecystokininB receptor antagonist, CI-988, given intraperitoneally at 1 mg/kg 40 min prior to exposure to the X-maze demonstrated an anxiolytic profile without affecting overall movement around the maze, however it did not reduce the increased levels of gene expression with the methodology used. Likewise the anxiolytic benzodiazepine, chlordiazepoxide at 3 mg/kg did not reduce gene expression. It is concluded that a reduction in an index of behavioural stress/anxiety produced by anxiolytic agents is not concomitantly followed by a detectable reduction in immediate early gene induction.
The effects of purified recombinant microtubule-associated protein 2c (rMAP2c) on the dynamic instability of microtubules were examined by direct observation of individual microtubules in vitro by video-enhanced differential interference contrast light microscopy. Microtubules were grown in the absence or presence of varying concentrations of rMAP2c and were analyzed to determine growth rates, shortening rates, and the frequencies of conversion between growing and shortening phases. We found rMAP2c to stabilize microtubules dramatically. The most notable effect is a reduction in both the frequency of catastrophes (transitions from growth to shortening) and the mean length of shortening events: no microtubule catastrophes were observed at concentrations of rMAP2c as low as 1.06 microM in a solution of 10 microM tubulin. Even at lower rMAP2c concentrations, there is a marked stabilizing effect. As the concentration of rMAP2c increases, average growth rates increase slightly, shortening rates decrease, and the frequency of rescues (transitions from shortening to growth) increases significantly. Together, these changes in parameters produce a population of extremely stable microtubules in the presence of rMAP2c. This stabilization is consistent with a structural role for MAP2c during early postnatal neural development.
Immunohistochemical staining for the substance P (neurokinin INK1) receptor labels 32% of the unmyelinated axons in the glabrous skin of the rat hindpaw. This is the first demonstration of substance P (SP) receptors associated with the membranes of primary afferent fibers. Injection of SP into the subcutaneous tissue of the third hind toe results in behavioral changes interpreted as mechanical hyperalgesia and mechanical allodynia. These nocifensive behaviors can be blocked by the NK1 antagonist CP99,994-1. The presence of peripheral axons immunolabelled for NK1 receptors and the demonstration that exogenous peripheral SP causes nocifensive behaviors would seem to indicate that SP can have a direct effect on sensory afferents with activation of these receptors resulting in fine afferent firing and thus the pain-related behaviors. Additionally, the presence of round, clear vesicles in some of the SP receptor-labelled axons suggests the presence of autoreceptors since it is known that many primary sensory afferents contain SP.
Reconstruction of the septohippocampal pathways by axons extending from embryonic cholinergic neuroblasts grafted into the neuron-depleted septum has been explored in the neonatal rat by using a novel lesioning and grafting protocol. Neonatal ablation of the basal forebrain cholinergic projection neurons, accompanied by extensive bilateral cholinergic denervation of the hippocampus and neocortex, was produced at postnatal day (PD) 4 by 192 immunoglobulin (IgG)-saporin intraventricularly. Four days later, cholinergic neuroblasts (from embryonic day 14 rats) were implanted bilaterally into the neuron-depleted septum by using a microtransplantation approach. The results show that homotopically implanted septal neurons survive and integrate well into the developing septal area, extending axons caudally along the myelinated fimbria-fornix and supracallosal pathways that are able to reach the appropriate targets in the denervated hippocampus and cingulate cortex as early as 4 weeks postgrafting. Moreover, the laminar innervation patterns established by the graft-derived axons closely resembled the normal ones and remained essentially unchanged up to at least 6 months, which was the longest postoperative time studied. The reinnervating fibers restored tissue choline acetyltransferase activity (up to 50% of normal) in the dorsal hippocampus and the parietooccipital cortex. Retrograde labeling with Fluoro-Gold from the host hippocampus combined with immunocytochemistry confirmed that most of the projecting neurons, indeed, were cholinergic. The results suggest that the graft-host interactions that are necessary for target-directed axon growth are present in the septohippocampal system during early postnatal maturation. Thus, the present approach may contribute to overcome the functional limitations inherent in the use of ectopically placed intrahippocampal transplants.
To identify the markers tightly linked to Machado-Joseph disease (MJD) and to investigate whether a limited number of ancestral chromosomes are shared by Japanese MJD pedigrees, a detailed linkage analysis employing D14S55, D14S48, D14S67, D14S291, D14S280, AFM343vf1, D14S81, D14S265, D14S62, and D14S65 was performed. The results of multipoint linkage analysis as well as detection of critical recombination events indicate that the gene for MJD is localized in a 4-cM region between D14S280-D14S81. We found strong linkage disequilibria at AFM343vf1 and D14S81, and association of a few common haplotypes with MJD. These results indicate that there is an obvious founder effect in Japanese MJD and suggest the possibility of the existence of predisposing haplotypes which are prone to expansions of CAG repeats.
We have shown previously that alpha-dystroglycan with a molecular mass of 120 kDa is a Schwann cell receptor of laminin-2, the endoneurial isoform of laminin comprised of the alpha2, beta1, and gamma1 chains. In this paper, we show that Schwann cell alpha-dystroglycan is also a receptor of agrin, an acetylcholine receptor-aggregating molecule having partial homology to laminin alpha chains in the C terminus. Immunochemical analysis demonstrates that the peripheral nerve isoform of agrin is a 400-kDa component of the endoneurial basal lamina and is co-localized with alpha-dystroglycan surrounding the outermost layer of myelin sheath of peripheral nerve fibers. Blot overlay analysis demonstrates that both endogenous peripheral nerve agrin and laminin-2 bind to Schwann cell alpha-dystroglycan. Recombinant C-terminal fragment of the peripheral nerve isoform of agrin also binds to Schwann cell alpha-dystroglycan, confirming that the binding site for Schwann cell alpha-dystroglycan resides in the C terminus of agrin molecule. Furthermore, the binding of recombinant agrin C-terminal fragment to Schwann cell alpha-dystroglycan competes with that of laminin-2. All together, these results indicate that alpha-dystroglycan is a dual receptor for agrin and laminin-2 in the Schwann cell membrane.
Monoclonal antibodies to isoforms of the Na,K-ATPase have become important tools in the study of the enzyme's distribution, physiological roles, and gene regulation, and when their epitopes are defined, they are useful in the study of enzyme structure as well. Evidence is presented that the alpha3-specific antibody McBX3 recognizes an unusual epitope that is not present on alpha3 in the heart. The epitope, which is also found in kidney alpha1 from some species, was mapped to a site on the large intracellular loop near the ATP binding site. DNA sequencing of reverse transcribed-PCR products encompassing the corresponding regions from alpha3 from brain (where McBX3 recognizes alpha3) and heart demonstrated that the tissue difference in epitope is not due to alternative splicing of the mRNA. Instead, hydroxylamine sensitivity indicated that the antibody recognizes a post-translational modification. The epitope for a new antibody for alpha3, XVIF9-G10, was mapped to a site near the N terminus, a location analogous to the sites for the well-characterized antibodies McK1 (alpha1) and McB2 (alpha2). The antibody XVIF9-G10 reacted with the alpha3 of the heart as well as that of the brain; however, McBX3 and XVIF9-G10 both stained the same cellular structures in sections of the rat retina. A new alpha1-specific antibody, 6F, was characterized and mapped to another site near the N terminus; this antibody has broader species specificity than the other well-characterized alpha1 antibody, McK1.
The ability to respond to unexpected stimuli (the 'orienting response') is a fundamental characteristic of mammalian behaviour, but the brain mechanisms by which novelty is detected remain poorly defined. Electrophysiological recordings of scalp and intracranial event-related potentials (ERPs) have shown that novel stimuli activate a distributed network involving prefrontal and posterior association cortex. In addition, ERP and single-neuron recordings, as well as neuroimaging and modelling studies, have suggested that temporal cortical regions, including the hippocampus, are also involved. To examine further the role of the medial temporal lobe in novelty processing, I measured physiological responses to novel auditory and tactile stimuli in patients with damage to the posterior hippocampal region. In normal control subjects, unexpected novel stimuli produce a characteristic ERP signal, accompanied by an autonomic skin response. Both responses are reduced in hippocampal lesion patients, whereas the response to expected control stimuli is unaffected. Thus the hippocampal region, in addition to its known role in memory formation, is an essential component of the distributed limbic-cortical network that detects and responds to novel stimuli.

Here we describe the properties of CP-154,526, a potent and selective nonpeptide antagonist of corticotropin (ACTH) releasing factor (CRF) receptors. CP-154,526 binds with high affinity to CRF receptors (Ki &lt; 10 nM) and blocks CRF-stimulated adenylate cyclase activity in membranes prepared from rat cortex and pituitary. Systemically administered CP-154,526 antagonizes the stimulatory effects of exogenous CRF on plasma ACTH, locus coeruleus neuronal firing and startle response amplitude. Potential anxiolytic activity of CP-154,526 was revealed in a fearpotentiated startle paradigm. These data are presented in the context of clinical findings, which suggest that CRF is hypersecreted in certain pathological states. We propose that a CRF antagonist such as CP-154,526 could affirm the role of CRF in certain psychiatric diseases and may be of significant value in the treatment of these disorders.
Cells of the exocrine pancreas produce digestive enzymes potentially harmful to the intestinal mucosa. Dopamine has been reported to protect against mucosal injury. In looking for the source of dopamine in the small intestine, we found that the duodenal juice contains high levels of dopamine and that the pancreas itself has a high dopamine [and dihydroxyphenylalanine (dopa)] content that does not change significantly after chemical sympathectomy. Furthermore, we were able to demonstrate tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) activity in control pancreas as well as in pancreas from rats after chemical sympathectomy. Immunostaining and in situ hybridization histochemistry confirmed both the presence of TH, dopamine, and the dopamine transporter, and the mRNAs encoding TH and dopamine transporter, and the presence of both types of vesicular monoamine transporters in the exocrine cells of the pancreas. Since there are no catecholaminergic enteric ganglia in the pancreas, the above results indicate that pancreatic cells have all the characteristics of dopamine-producing cells. We suggest that the pancreas is an important source of nonneuronal dopamine in the body, and that this dopamine has a role in protecting the intestinal mucosa and suggests that dopamine D1b receptor agonists might be used to help mucosal healing in the gastrointestinal tract.

We previously showed that intraperitoneal injection of lipopolysaccharide induced cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) mRNA in as yet unidentified cells of blood vessels and leptomeninges in the rat brain and proposed a possible role of these cells as the source of prostaglandin E2 in the genesis of fever (Cao et al., Brain Res., 697 (1995) 187-196). In the present study, to proceed further with this line of research, we addressed the following two questions: first, does a pyrogenic dose of interleukin-1 beta (IL-1 beta), an endogenous pyrogen, induce COX-2 mRNA in the brain blood vessels and leptomeninges? Secondly, if it does, what type of cells are positive for COX-2 mRNA? Intraperitoneal injection of recombinant human IL-1 beta (30 micrograms/kg) induced fever in rats and an in situ hybridization study revealed that faint but significant COX-2 mRNA signals appeared in the blood vessels and leptomeninges at 1.5 h after the injection (the early rising phase of fever). The mRNA signals increased in number and intensity at 4 h (early plateau phase), decreased at 6.5 h (early recovery phase), and completely disappeared by 10 h after the injection (late recovery phase). The COX-2 mRNA positive cells in the blood vessels were likely to be the endothelial cells since the corresponding cells in the adjacent mirror-imaged section also expressed mRNAs for intracellular adhesion molecule-1 and the type-I interleukin-1 receptor, although those in the leptomeninges still remained unidentified. These results imply that circulating IL-1 beta acts on its receptor on the endothelial cells of the brain vasculature to induce COX-2 mRNA, which is possibly responsible for the elevated level of PGE2 seen during fever.
We have cloned from human retina a cyclic nucleotide-gated (CNG) ion channel that is distinct from the one found in rod photoreceptors. This channel protein is highly homologous to the CNG channel that recently has been cloned from bovine testis and kidney and has been shown to be present in retinal cone photoreceptors. When expressed in human embryonic kidney cells, the protein forms functional ion channels with properties broadly similar to those described for the cloned bovine channel. The gene for this channel resides on chromosome 2.
Rhodopsins (Rh), G-protein-coupled receptors with seven transmembrane (TM) helices, form the first step in visual transduction in most organisms. Although many long-wavelength (LW) vertebrate opsin sequences are known, less information is available for invertebrate LW sequences. By a combination of RT-PCR and cDNA library screening, we have cloned and sequenced the honeybee LW Rh gene. The deduced protein is composed of 378 amino acids (aa), appears to have seven TM regions, and contains many of the structures and key aa thought to be important for Rh function. Phylogenetic analysis of this sequence in relation to other invertebrate Rh reveals it to be a member of a new group of insect LW Rh.
The purpose of the present study was to determine if the cortical efferents from homologous body regions of the supplementary motor area (SMA) and the primary motor cortex (MI) project to separate or to overlapping regions in the striatum. In order to investigate the dual corticostriatal projections, we employed an anterograde double labeling paradigm in which two tracers could be simultaneously detected in the same histological section. Prior to the injections, the forelimb representation in the two cortical motor areas was identified by using intracortical microstimulation in four Japanese monkeys (Macaca fuscata). Multiple injections of biotinylated dextran amine (BDA) were made into the forelimb regions of MI and wheat germ agglutinin conjugated horseradish peroxidase (WGA-HRP) was injected into the arm region of the SMA. In additional animals, the tracers were reversed such that BDA was injected into the SMA and WGA-HRP was injected into the MI. The tissue was processed sequentially using different chromogens in order to visualize both tracers in a single section. We analyzed the distribution of the ipsilateral anterograde label. The striatal labeling from each cortical area basically consisted of a wide band of patchy dense labeling interrupted by lighter labeling. The SMA striatal projections were located mainly within the putamen, distributing from the level of the anterior commissure to the most posterior extent of the putamen. At an intermediate level, the label spread obliquely from the ventrolateral edge of the putamen dorsomedially as far as the lateral edge of the caudate nucleus. The label from the MI was observed in comparable portions of the putamen, although the SMA projections were shifted more anterior and dorsomedial to the MI projections and the heaviest projections from the SMA and the MI were separately located. On the basis of the double anterograde labeling technique, we found considerable overlap mainly in the central portion of the putamen from the SMA and MI forelimb representation. These results suggest that the homologous body regions of the SMA and MI send widespread, and substantially overlapping projections, to portions of the striatum.
It has frequently been reported that in so-called oddball tasks, children with attention-deficit and hyperactivity disorder (ADDH) show small P3 peaks of the event-related potential (ERP) in response to &quot;targets&quot; (task-relevant deviant stimuli) than normal children. It is not clear, however, whether this smaller P3 is due to abnormal processing of infrequent stimuli per se and/or of task-relevant stimuli and whether it is preceded by abnormalities in earlier peaks, especially those thought to be related to automatic deviancy detection [mismatch negativity (MMN) in the auditory modality and P2N2 in the visual modality]. ERPs of ADDH and normal children in response to visual and auditory stimuli were studied in a condition without task relevance as well as in a task-relevant condition. ADDH children showed smaller P3 amplitudes and (marginally) smaller MMN to auditory deviant stimuli, irrespective of task relevance, so smaller P3s in ADDH children are due to stimulus deviancy per se. In the visual modality the P3 effect failed to reach significance. Because the smaller P3s were also found in a condition not requiring task-related motivation, recent motivational interpretations of differences with normal children are not supported. ADDH children also showed smaller P1 amplitudes than normal children to all stimuli except visual novels. The ERP differences were unrelated to performance, since both groups performed equally well.
Monozygotic twins discordant for schizophrenia were analyzed by two-dimensional (2-D) gel electrophoresis to identify extrahereditary factors important in the development of schizophrenia. Plasma protein patterns in 2-D gels of monozygotic twins discordant for schizophrenia were found to be significantly less alike than those of normal control monozygotic twins. Several polypeptide spots were found to be elevated in the plasma of the schizophrenic twin. One of these polypeptides, spot 782, was also found to be significantly (p &lt; .001) elevated when schizophrenic patients were compared to unrelated normal control individuals. Spot 782 may be an isoform of haptoglobin. Quantitative variations in some plasma haptoglobin levels were seen between discordant twins, but not between unrelated schizophrenic and normal control individuals.
The majority of human colon cancers express the gastrin gene, and a significant percentage bind gastrin-like peptides. However, it is not known if gastrin gene products are physiologically relevant to the growth and proliferation of human colon cancers. To investigate the functional role of gastrin gene expression, we examined the effect of gastrin antisense (AS) RNA expression on the growth and tumorigenicity of colon cancer cells. The full-length human gastrin cDNA was cloned in the AS direction in a retroviral vector under the transcriptional control of human cytomegalovirus promoter. Three representative human colon cancer cell lines that expressed negligible (Colo-205A) to significant (Colo-320 and HCT-116) levels of gastrin mRNA were transfected with either AS or control vectors and subjected to various growth studies in vitro and in vivo. The proliferative and tumorigenic potential of the AS clones from the gastrin-expressing cell lines was significantly suppressed compared to that of the control clones, whereas the growth of Colo-205A-AS cells (the negative control) was similar to that of the Colo-205A-C-cells, indicating the relative specificity of the antitumorigenic effects of AS gastrin RNA expression. We believe that this is the first evidence that supports a possible critical role of gastrin gene expression in the tumorigenicity of human colon cancers that express the gastrin gene. Because &gt; 60-80% of human colon cancers express the gastrin gene, it can be expected that the growth of a significant percentage of these cancers may be critically dependent on the expression of gastrin gene products. Therapeutic measures, such as the AS strategy used in the present study, may therefore prove to be useful in treating human colon cancers in the future.
In Xenopus embryos growth cones of the mandibular trigeminal nerve contact cells located in the posterior end of the cement gland. We report three lines of evidence suggesting that cues from the posterior cells of the target influence the behavior of trigeminal neurites. First, target ablation in vivo results in failure of axons to stop and to arborize. Second, 180 degree rotation in the anteroposterior axis of the target results in anterior innervation of the cement gland. Third, ectopic cement gland implantation in the path of neurites migration leads to ectopic innervation. These results provide evidence for short-range cues (&lt; 50 microns) in the posterior part of the cement gland controlling the stopping and the branching of the mandibular trigeminal nerve. Furthermore, we show that an ectodermic explant expressing follistatin mimics the natural target in homing trigeminal neurites. We finally propose to use this novel in vivo assay to isolate the trigeminal nerve target-recognition molecule(s).
We have previously identified novel members of the pentraxin family (neuronal pentraxin 1 and 2) that are expressed in the nervous system. Neuronal pentraxin 1 (NP1) was identified as a rat protein that may mediate the uptake of synaptic material and the presynaptic snake venom toxin, taipoxin. NP2 was identified as a separate gene discovered by screening for a human homolog for NP1. Here, we report human cDNA and mouse genomic DNA sequences for NP1 (gene symbol NPTX1). Human NP1 and mouse NP1 show 95 and 99% amino acid identity, respectively, with rat NP1 and conserve all potential glycosylation sites. Like rat NP1, human NP1 message is large (6.5 kb) and is exclusively localized to the nervous system. The mouse NP1 gene is 13 kb in length and contains four introns that break the coding sequence of NP1 in the same positions as the introns of the human NP2 gene. The human and mouse NP1 genes are localized to chromosome 17q25.1-q25.2 and chromosome 11e2-e1.3, respectively. These data demonstrate the existence of a separate family of pentraxin proteins that are expressed in the human brain and other tissues and that may play important roles in the uptake of extracellular material.
Overexpression of mutated human amyloid precursor protein (hAPP717V--&gt;F) under control of platelet-derived growth factor promoter (PDAPP minigene) in transgenic (tg) mice results in neurodegenerative changes similar to Alzheimer's disease (AD). To clarify the pathology of these mice, we studied images derived from laser scanning confocal and electron microscopy and performed comparisons between PDAPP tg mice and AD. Similar to AD, neuritic plaques in PDAPP tg mouse contained a dense amyloid core surrounded by anti-hAPP- and antineurofilament-immunoreactive dystrophic neurites and astroglial cells. Neurons were found in close proximity to plaques in PDAPP tg mice and, to a lesser extent, in AD. In PDAPP tg mice, and occasionally in AD, neuronal processes contained fine intracellular amyloid fibrils in close proximity to the rough endoplasmic reticulum, coated vesicles, and electron-dense material. Extracellular amyloid fibrils (9-11 nm in diameter) were abundant in PDAPP tg and were strikingly similar to those observed in AD. Dystrophic neurites in plaques of PDAPP tg mouse and AD formed synapses and contained many dense multilaminar bodies and neurofilaments (10 nm). Apoptotic-like figures were present in the tg mice. No paired helical filaments have yet been observed in the heterozygote PDAPP tg mice. In summary, this study shows that PDAPP tg mice develop massive neuritic plaque formation and neuronal degeneration similar to AD. These findings show that overproduction of hAPP717V--&gt;F in tg mice is sufficient to cause not only amyloid deposition, but also many of the complex subcellular degenerative changes associated with AD.
Neocortical neuronogenesis occurs in the pseudostratified ventricular epithelium (PVE) where nuclei of proliferative cells undergo interkinetic nuclear movement. A fraction of daughter cells exits the cell cycle as neurons (the quiescent, or Q, fraction), whereas a complementary fraction remains in the cell cycle (the proliferative, or P, fraction). By means of sequential thymidine and bromodeoxyuridine injections in mouse on embryonic day 14, we have monitored the proliferative and post-mitotic migratory behaviors of 1 and 2 hr cohorts of PVE cells defined by the injection protocols. Soon after mitosis, the Q fraction partitions into a rapidly exiting (up to 50 microns/hr) subpopulation (Qr) and a more slowly exiting (6 microns/hr) subpopulation (Qs). Qr and Qs are separated as two distributions on exit from the ventricular zone with an interpeak distance of approximately 40 microns. Cells in Qr and Qs migrate through the intermediate zone with no significant change in the interpeak distance, suggesting that they migrate at approximately the same velocities. The rate of migration increases with ascent through the intermediate zone (average 2-6.4 microns/hr) slowing only transiently on entry into the developing cortex. Within the cortex, Qr and Qs merge to form a single distribution most concentrated over layer V.
Mechanisms underlying axonogenesis remain obscure. Although a large number of proteins eventually become polarized to the axonal domain, in no case does protein compartmentalization occur before or simultaneous with the earliest morphological expression of axonal properties. How then might initially unpolarized proteins, such as the microtubule-associated protein tau, play a role in the microdifferentiation of axons? We hypothesized that tau function could be locally regulated by phosphorylation during the period of axonogenesis. To test this hypothesis, we mapped relative levels of tau phosphorylation within developing cultured hippocampal neurons. This was accomplished using calibrated immunofluorescence ratio measurements employing phosphorylation state-dependent and state-independent antibodies. Tau in the nascent axon is more highly dephosphorylated at the site recognized by the tau-1 antibody than tau in the somatodendritic compartment. The change in phosphorylation state from soma to axon takes the form of a smooth proximo-distal gradient, with tau in the soma, immature dendrites and proximal axon approximately 80% phosphorylated at the tau-1 site, and that in the axonal growth cone only 20% phosphorylated. The existence of real spatial differences in tau phosphorylation state was confirmed by in situ phosphatase and kinase treatment. Pervanadate, a tyrosine phosphatase inhibitor, induced rapid tau dephosphorylation within live cells, effectively abolishing the phosphorylation gradient. Thus, the gradient is dynamic and potentially regulatable by upstream signals involving tyrosine phosphorylation. Phosphorylation gradients are likely to be present on many neuronal proteins in addition to tau, and their modulation by transmembrane signals could direct the establishment of polarity.
We have tested the effects of neuromuscular denervation in Drosophila by laser-ablating the RP motoneurons in intact embryos before synaptogenesis. We examined the consequences of this ablation on local synaptic connectivity in both 1st and 3rd instar larvae. We find that the partial or complete loss of native innervation correlates with the appearance of alternate inputs from neighboring motor endings and axons. These collateral inputs are found at ectopic sites on the denervated target muscle fibers. The foreign motor endings are electrophysiologically functional and are observed on the denervated muscle fibers by the 1st instar larval stage. Our data are consistent with the existence of a local signal from the target environment, which is regulated by innervation and influences synaptic connectivity. Our results show that, despite the stereotypy of Drosophila neuromuscular connections, denervation can induce local changes in connectivity in wild-type Drosophila, suggesting that mechanisms of synaptic plasticity may also be involved in normal Drosophila neuromuscular development.
A brief exposure to high concentrations of glutamate kills cultured forebrain neurons by an excitotoxic process that is dependent on Ca2+ influx through the NMDA receptor. In this study, we have measured striking changes in mitochondrial function during and immediately after intense glutamate receptor activation. Using indo-1 microfluorometry and a specific inhibitor of the mitochondrial Na+/Ca2+ exchanger, CGP-37157, we have demonstrated that mitochondria accumulate large quantities of Ca2+ during a toxic glutamate stimulus and further that Ca2+ efflux from mitochondria contributes to the prolonged [Ca2+]i elevation after glutamate removal. We then used JC-1 (5,5',6,6'-tetrachloro-1,1',3,3'-tetraethylbenzimidazolocarbocyanine+ ++ iodide), a ratiometric indicator of mitochondrial membrane potential (delta psi), to show that Ca2+ accumulation within the organelle dissipates delta psi. The abrupt loss of delta psi after glutamate stimulation did not occur in the presence of MK801 or in the absence of extracellular Ca2+. The mitochondrial depolarization was also cyclosporin A-sensitive, indicating a probable role for the permeability transition pore. Hence mitochondrial Ca2+ accumulation and the subsequent permeability transition may be a critical early event specific to the NMDA receptor-mediated excitotoxic cascade.
In hippocampal neurons, a slowly inactivating aminopyridine-sensitive transient potassium current, D-current, influences the time course of action potential repolarization and therefore activity-dependent Ca2+ entry. We used high-speed optical recording techniques to study the effects of selectively inhibiting D-current with 4-AP (40 microM) on transmission at the Schaffer collateral (CA3)-CA1 synapse in rat hippocampal slices stained with the voltage-sensitive dye RH-155. We observed that addition of 4-AP to the bathing solution resulted in (1) augmentation of a fast component of the optical signal corresponding to the postsynaptic EPSP and action potential, and (2) the appearance of a delayed depolarization of CA1 neurons and other adjacent cells. 4-AP appeared to alter the presynaptic action potential and the dynamics of synaptic transmission to both reduce the sensitivity of the postsynaptic EPSP and action potential to omega-toxin calcium channel blockers (omega-conotoxin GVIA and omega-agatoxin IVA) and the Ca(2+)-dependent potassium channel blocker charybdotoxin, and to increase sensitivity to the dihydropyridine nifedipine, the NMDA receptor blocker aminophosphonopentanoic acid, and the intracellular Ca2+ release inhibitor thapsigargin. The delayed depolarization induced by 4-AP was inhibited in hyperosmotic extracellular solution, suggesting that enhanced transmitter release resulted in increased accumulation of K+ in the extracellular space. Because 4-AP is a convulsant at concentrations similar to those used here, we suggest that the 4-AP-targeted channel(s) carrying D-current may contribute to the hyperexcitability associated with epilepsy.
Heme oxygenase (HO) converts heme to carbon monoxide (CO) and biliverdin, which is metabolized rapidly to bilirubin. CO is implicated as an intercellular messenger, whereas bilirubin could function as an antioxidant. These cellular functions differ significantly from those of HO in peripheral tissues, in which it degrades heme from senescent erythrocytes, suggesting that the regulation of HO may differ in neurons from that in other tissues. Among neurons, olfactory receptor neurons have the highest level of HO activity. Metabolic labeling with [2-14C]glycine or delta-[3H]aminolevulinic acid ([3H]ALA) was used to investigate heme metabolic turnover and CO biosynthesis in primary cultures of olfactory receptor neurons. The production rates of heme precursors and metabolites from [14C]glycine over 6 hr were (in pmol/mg protein): 100 for ALA, 8.2 for heme, and 2.9 for CO. Taking into account endogenous heme content, the amount of total CO production was determined to be 1.6 nmol/mg protein per 6 hr. Heme biosynthesis usually is subject to end-product negative feedback at the level of ALA synthase. However, metabolic control in these neurons is different. Both heme concentration (heme formation) and HO activity (heme degradation) were enhanced significantly during immature stage of neuronal differentiation in culture. Neuronal maturation, which is accelerated by transforming growth factor-beta 2 (TGF-beta 2), suppressed the activities of both heme biosynthesis and degradation. To explore the physiological importance of this endogenous production of CO, we examined the potency of CO as a soluble guanylyl cyclase activator. Exogenous CO (10-30 microM), comparable to endogenous CO production, significantly activated guanylyl cyclase, suggesting that HO activity may regulate cGMP levels in the nervous system.
Hippocampal neurons exhibit low-voltage-activated (LVA) and high-voltage-activated (HVA) calcium currents. We characterized the LVA current by recording whole-cell Ca2+ currents from acutely isolated rat hippocampal CA3 pyramidal neurons in 2 mM Ca2+. Long depolarizing steps to -50 mV revealed two components to the LVA current: transient and sustained. The transient phase had a fast decay time constant of 59 msec. The sustained phase persisted throughout the depolarization, even for steps lasting several seconds. The transient current was inhibited by the classic T-type channel antagonists Ni2+ and amiloride. The anticonvulsant phenytoin preferentially blocked the sustained phase, but ethosuximide had no effect. Steady-state inactivation of the transient component was half-maximal at -80 mV. Nimodipine, an L-type channel antagonist, partly inhibited the sustained current. BayK-8644, an L-type channel agonist, potentiated the sustained current. Calciseptine, another L-type channel antagonist, inhibited the sustained component. omega-Conotoxin-MVIIC, a nonselective toxin for HVA channels, had no effect on either of the LVA current components. omega-Grammotoxin-SIA, another nonselective toxin, partially inhibited the sustained component. The voltage dependence of activation of the nimodipine-sensitive current could be fit with a single Boltzmann, consistent with a homogenous population of L-type channels in CA3 neurons. Half-maximal activation of the nimodipine-sensitive current occurred at -30 mV, considerably more negative than the remaining HVA current. These results suggest that in physiologic Ca2+ more than one type of Ca2+ channel contributes to the LVA current in CA3 neurons. The transient current is carried by T-type channels. The sustained current is carried, at least in part, by dihydropyridine-sensitive channels. Thus, the designation &quot;low-voltage-activated&quot; should not be limited to T-type channels. These findings challenge the traditional designation of L-type channels as exclusively HVA and reveal a possible role in subthreshold Ca2+ signaling.

Regulation of experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE) can be induced by anti-idiotype immunity against T cell receptor (TCR) fragments associated with major histocompatibility complex (MHC) molecules. However, we have recently found that preimmunization with an alpha-chain TCR CDR3 peptide (LYFCAARSNYQL) derived from myelin basic protein (MBP)-specific clones did not suppress but rather augmented the severity of EAE induced by MBP-specific T cells in SJL/J mice. To test whether CDR3 vaccination could control only a highly restricted T cell population, we studied the effect of the peptide against EAE induced by T cells specific for different Ag/MHC ligands and autoimmune diseases affecting non-neural tissues. In contrast to expectations, the peptide was found to augment not only EAE induced by MBP-specific T cells, but also proteolipid protein (PLP)-specific T cell- or PLP peptide-induced EAE in SJL/J mice, and MBP-induced EAE and adjuvant arthritis (AA) in rats. The CDR3 peptide was neither inhibitory nor supportive for Ag-induced activation of an encephalitogenic clone in vitro. In addition, the peptide treatment neither inhibited the induction of Ag-specific T cells nor altered the APC function of spleen cells. These findings, on the one hand, confirm previous results showing TCR peptide-induced enhancement of the disease and, on the other hand, indicate that the TCR CDR3 peptide may control T cells with broader Ag/MHC specificities than could be expected. Structural similarity among TCR idiotypes of autoimmune T cells may partly account for these results.
We report preliminary characterization of a gene designated beta-R1, which is selectively expressed in response to interferon beta (IFN-beta) compared with IFN-alpha. In human astrocytoma cells, beta-R1 was induced to an equivalent extent by 10 IU/mL IFN-beta or 2500 IU/mL IFN-alpha2. To address the mechanism of this differential response, we analyzed induction of the beta-R1 gene in fibrosarcoma cells and derivative mutant cells lacking components required for signaling by type I IFNs. beta-R1 was readily induced by IFN-beta in the parental 2fTGH cell line, but not by recombinant IFN-alpha2, IFN-alpha Con1, or a mixture of IFN-alpha subtypes. IFN-alpha8 induced beta-R1 weakly. beta-R1 was not induced by IFN-beta in mutant cell lines U2A, U3A, U4A, and U6A, which lack, respectively, p48, STAT1, JAK1, and STAT2. U5A cells, which lack the Ifnar 2.2 component of the IFN-alpha and -beta receptor, also failed to express beta-R1. U1A cells are partially responsive to IFN-beta and IFN-alpha8 but lacked beta-R1 expression, indicating that TYK2 protein is essential for induction of this gene. Taken together, these results suggest that the expression of beta-R1 in response to type I IFN requires IFN-stimulated gene factor 3 plus an additional component, which is more efficiently formed on induction by IFN-beta compared with IFN-alpha.
G protein-coupled receptor kinases (GRKs) mediate agonist-dependent phosphorylation of G protein-coupled receptors (GPRs) and initiate homologous receptor desensitization. Previously, we reported that charged phospholipids directly interacted with the two GRK isoforms, GRK2 and GKR3, via a pleckstrin homology (PH) domain to regulate GRK activity (DebBurman, S. K., Ptasienski, J., Boetticher, E., Lomasney, J. W., Benovic, J. L., and Hosey, M. M. (1995) J. Biol. Chem. 270: 5742-5747). Here, evidence is provided to support the hypothesis that charged phospholipids are required for agonist-dependent phosphorylation of receptors by GRK2. In the absence of charged phospholipids, the purified human m2 muscarinic acetylcholine receptor (hm2mAChR) reconstituted in pure phosphatidylcholine vesicles or in a noninhibitory detergent was not a substrate for GRK2. However, these receptor preparations were stoichiometrically phosphorylated in an agonist-dependent manner upon addition of charged phospholipids. The known ability of G protein betagamma subunits to stimulate mAChR phosphorylation also was found to be absolutely dependent on the presence of charged phospholipids, including phosphatidylinositol 4,5-bisphosphate (PIP2). Phospholipids also regulated GRK-mediated phosphorylation of casein, a nonreceptor-soluble substrate. Among lipids tested, lipid inositol phosphates, PIP2 and phosphatidylinositol 4-monophosphate, were found to be the most potent activators of GRK2 and were the only lipids that regulated GRK2 in a complex biphasic manner. At low micro concentrations, PIP2 activated GRK2 via an interaction with the GRK pleckstrin homology domain; however, at high micro concentrations, PIP2 inhibited GRK2, apparently via another mechanism. PIP2-mediated inhibition could be partly relieved by increasing ATP. The results support the hypothesis that GRK2 is a lipid-dependent protein kinase that requires charged phospholipids for enzyme activation, for regulation by Gbetagamma subunits, and potentially for membrane association.
High voltage-activated Ca2+ currents in rat melanotropic cells consist of a sustained and an inactivating component. In this study the pharmacological properties of the high voltage-activated Ca2+ channels underlying these components are investigated with whole-cell recordings. We report that melanotropes express four pharmacologically distinct high voltage-activated Ca2+ channels. Non-inactivating L-type channels account for 35% of the total high voltage-activated channel population. These channels have a very high affinity for the dihydropyridine nimodipine (EC50 approximately 3 pM). The cone snail toxin omega-conotoxin GVIA irreversibly blocked an inactivating high voltage-activated component which accounted for 26% of the total whole-cell high voltage-activated Ca2+ current. The spider toxin omega-agatoxin IVA reversibly blocked an additional 31% of the total high voltage-activated current. The current blocked by omega-agatoxin IVA was not homogenous and consisted of a sustained component with a high affinity for omega-agatoxin IVA (&lt; 10 nM) and an inactivating current with a low affinity for omega-agatoxin IVA (&gt; 100 nM). Both the omega-agatoxin IVA and omega-conotoxin GVIA-blocked currents were very sensitive to nimodipine and nitrendipine with a half maximal block at 200-500 nM. 10 microM nimodipine blocked 70% of the omega-conotoxin GVIA-sensitive current and 90% of the omega-agatoxin IVA-sensitive current. Thus, omega-conotoxin GVIA- and omega-agatoxin IVA-sensitive high voltage-activated Ca2+ channels in melanotropes have an unusual high affinity for dihydropyridines compared to N-, P-, and Q-type channels in other preparations.
To determine how the baroreflex control of sympathetic nerve activity is affected by aging, muscle sympathetic nerve activity (MSNA) from the tibial nerve was monitored using microneurography, and heart rate and blood pressure were recorded during the pressor or depressor responses to intravenous injections of phenylephrine or nitroglycerin in 39 healthy humans, aged 16 to 56 years. Although the baroreflex slope for heart rate showed attenuation with aging, the baroreflex slope for MSNA was not affected by aging. These data suggest preservation of the baroreflex control of sympathetic nerve activity despite attenuation of the baroreflex control of parasympathetic nerve activity by aging in humans.
Skin sympathetic nerve activity (SSNA) from the tibial nerve and event-related brain potentials (ERPs) were recorded simultaneously during auditory oddball paradigms with a counting task in 10 healthy subjects to elucidate the relationships between the autonomic nervous system and the cognitive process. After the target tones. SSNA bursts were observed more frequently than after the non-target tones. Moreover, the amplitudes of SSNA bursts elicited after the target tones were higher than those elicited after the non-target tones. However, when subjects ignored the series of tones, there was no significant difference between the incidence of SSNA bursts after rare tones and frequent tones. The P300 latencies for the target trials with SSNA bursts were shorter than those for the target trials without SSNA bursts. The average ERP wave forms for the target trials with SSNA bursts showed larger positive deflection in the early part of the P300 component than those for the target trials without SSNA bursts. We conclude that SSNA is generated in relation to the conscious cognitive process, as well as to the reactive automatic process to changes in repeating stimuli. The early part of the P300 component, possibly P3a, may be related to the mechanisms that generate SSNA.
To reveal new therapeutic strategies for Parkinson's disease (PD), we investigated the protective effect of an immunosuppressant, cyclosporin A (CsA), against 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA)-induced injury of nigrostriatal dopamine neurons in mice. Seven days after induction of 6-OHDA lesion, dopamine (DA) and homovanillic acid (HVA) in the striatum were depleted by 60 and 50%, respectively, and repeated high dose CsA (20 mg/kg) treatment significantly protected against these depletions. HVA and dihydroxyphenylacetic acid (DOPAC) in the substantia nigra were depleted by 40%, and CsA significantly increased HVA and DOPAC in 6-OHDA-lesioned mice. Furthermore, CsA increased the [DOPAC + HVA]/DA ratio in the substantia nigra, indicating that DA metabolism was stimulated by CsA in 6-OHDA-lesioned mice. These results suggest that CsA is beneficial in reducing 6-OHDA-induced injury of nigrostriatal DA neurons, indicating the therapeutic potential of immunosuppressants in PD.
The nucleus tractus solitarius (NTS), the ventrolateral medulla (VLM), the dorsal motor vagus nucleus (DMnX) and the locus coeruleus (LC) are catecholaminergic brainstem areas involved in ventilatory and cardiovascular responses to hypoxia and tyrosine hydroxylation is the rate limiting step of cathecholamine biosynthesis in the central nervous system. The aim of this study was to evaluate the effects of long-term hypoxia on tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) content in these different areas using a quantitative autoradiographic technique. Two experimental groups of rats were studied: Group I (9 males, 8 females) was submitted to normobaric hypoxia (10% O2-90% N2) for 21 days and compared to 12 (6 males, 6 females) normoxic control rats (Group II). Coronal tissue sections from fresh-frozen rat brains, obtained along the caudo-rostral axis, were incubated in the presence of a TH monoclonal antibody, and the reaction was revealed by a 35S-labelled secondary antibody. TH levels were quantified in the NTS, VLM, DMnX and LC by measuring optical density on autoradiographic films using an automatic image analyser system. Regional antigen quantification was assessed by computer-assisted image analysis. Chronic hypoxia led to body weight decrease until day 5, haematocrit increase (65 +/- 2% vs. 44 +/- 2%, P &lt; 0.01) and right ventricle hypertrophy (35 +/- 0.5% vs. 23 +/- 0.1% of the weight of the two ventricles, P &lt; 0.01). TH protein contents expressed as percentage of controls were as follows. In males, in the rostral part of the NTS 132 +/- 9% (P &lt; 0.02), in the caudal part of the NTS, 117 +/- 5% (P &lt; 0.04). In female rats, the TH quantity reached a value of 124 +/- 4% (P &lt; 0.01) in the rostral part and 126 +/- 6% (P &lt; 0.01) in the caudal part of the NTS. In females, TH content was significantly increased in the VLM, 124 +/- 6%, P = 0.01, whereas in males there was only a non-significant trend to increase, 122 +/- 11%. In females, there was a significant increase in the DMnX, 127 +/- 9%, P = 0.05, whereas in males there was only a trend to increase, 120 +/- 5%. This study shows that long-term hypoxia induces a persistent increase in TH protein content both in the caudal and rostral part of the NTS, which are known to receive respectively chemo- and barosensory inputs, and in other catecholaminergic areas involved in baroreflex activity. Our data clearly demonstrate the implication of neurochemical mechanisms in the central relationship between chemo- and baroreflex which are responsible for changes in systemic arterial pressure and oxygen partial pressure as required for maintaining an adequate oxygen supply to the tissues.
The rostral ventrolateral medulla (RVL) contains reticulospinal adrenergic (C1) neurons that are thought to be sympathoexcitatory and that form the medullary efferent limb of the baroreceptor reflex pathway. The RVL receives direct projections from two important autonomic regions, the caudal ventrolateral medulla (CVL) and the nucleus tractus solitarii with immunocytochemical identification of C1 adrenergic neurons in the RVL to compare the morphology of afferent input from these two autonomic regions into the RVL. NTS (n = 203) and CVL (n = 380) efferent terminals had similar morphology and vesicular content, but CVL efferent terminals were slightly larger than NTS efferent terminals. Overall, efferent terminals from either region were equally likely to contact adrenergic neurons in the RVL (21% for NTS, 25% for CVL). Although efferents from both regions formed both symmetric and asymmetric synapses, NTS efferent terminals were statistically more likely to form asymmetric synapses than CVL efferent terminals. CVL efferent terminals were more likely to contact adrenergic somata than were NTS efferents, which usually contacted dendrites. These findings 1) support the hypothesis that a portion of NTS efferents to the RVL may be involved in sympathoexcitatory, e.g., chemoreceptor, reflexes (via asymmetric synapses), whereas those from the CVL mediate sympathoinhibition (via symmetric synapses); and 2) provide an anatomical substrate for differential postsynaptic modulation of C1 neurons by projections from the NTS and CVL. With their more frequent somatic localization, CVL inhibitory inputs may be more influential than excitatory NTS inputs in determining the discharge of RVL neurons.
Axonal projections of pump neurons (P-cells) of the nucleus of the solitary tract were studied in Nembutal-anesthetized, paralyzed, and artificially ventilated cats. Extracellular recordings were made from single P-cells which were monosynaptically activated by electrical stimulation of the ipsilateral vagal afferents and distributed in close proximity to the solitary tract. Antidromic stimulation of the medulla showed that all P-cells examined projected their axons to the ipsilateral ventrolateral medulla. Axonal arborizations were found in respiration-related areas and their vicinity between the level of the retrofacial nucleus and the level a few millimeters caudal to the obex. Some of these P-cells sent axon collaterals to the contralateral nucleus of the solitary tract (NTS) as well. This study is the first to show wide spread medullary projections of P-cell axons.
Transcription factor, cAMP response element-binding protein (CREB), which is phosphorylated by cAMP-dependent kinase via an increase in cAMP, and regulates gene transcription by binding to the cAMP response element (CRE) on target genes. We examined age-dependent alterations in the DNA-binding activity of CREB in rat brain regions, and the effects of rolipram, a cAMP-specific phosphodiesterase (PDE) inhibitor on the CRE-binding activity by electrophoretic mobility-shift assay (EMSA). A marked age-dependent decrease in the CRE-binding activity was shown in all brain regions examined, especially in the basal forebrain, the striatum and the hippocampus. Furthermore, CRE-binding activities in the basal forebrain of both young-adult and aged rats significantly increased 2 h after rolipram administration (1 mg/kg, i.p.), and the rolipram treatment recovered the decreased CRE-binding activity in the aged rats. The saturation experiment in EMSA also revealed that rolipram reversed the decrease in the maximum CRE-bindings in the basal forebrain with aging. Since the 5' upstream region of the rat choline acetyltransferase (ChAT) gene contains CRE, and ChAT-positive neurons in the basal forebrain project to the frontal cortex and the hippocampus, rolipram may exert its previously reported ameliorating effect on the age-related reductions of ChAT activities in the frontal cortex and the hippocampus by phosphorylating CREB in the basal forebrain with activation of cAMP-dependent protein kinase via inhibition of PDE.
Dexfenfluramine (DF), given in high doses, can produce long-lasting decreases in brain levels of serotonin (5-HT) and 5-HT transporter (5-HTT) protein. The purpose of this study was to determine if DF-induced decreases in 5-HT and 5-HTT in rat forebrain are correlated with compensatory changes in the expression of the genes for tryptophan hydroxylase (TPH) and 5-HTT in the dorsal raphe nucleus. Gene transcripts were measured by quantitative reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR). Rats were treated with either one or eight injections of DF at either high (10 mg/kg) or low (2 mg/kg) doses. A positive control group for 5-HT cell loss received a single cerebroventricular injection of 5,7-dihydroxytryptamine (DHT). Rats were killed either 5, 15 or 30 days after their last treatment. Paroxetine binding to the 5-HTT protein in frontal cortex was, as expected, reduced in all of the treated groups relative to vehicle controls. TPH mRNA levels in the dorsal raphe of animals that received DHT were significantly higher than those measured in all other treatment groups 15 days following treatment. By 30 days, the amount of TPH mRNA in DHT-treated rats had fallen to well below control levels. None of the DF regimens significantly affected TPH mRNA levels. Unlike the TPH mRNA changes in DHT-treated rats, the 5-HTT mRNA levels in the dorsal raphe declined progressively throughout the 30 day survival period. None of the DF regimens significantly affected 5-HTT mRNA levels. The significance of these data are discussed in terms of whether loss of forebrain markers for 5-HT reflects either the loss of fine caliber 5-HT axon terminals or a decrease in the expression of these markers in the somata of these cells which are located in the dorsal raphe.
Nurr1 and NGFI-B are closely related orphan members of the steroid-thyroid hormone receptor family involved in immediate early responses to stimuli such as growth factors. In-situ hybridization in the developing and adult mouse and rat demonstrated Nurr1 mRNA in several regions during early central nervous system (CNS) development. Expression persisted through the pre- and postnatal periods and was also found in several areas in the adult CNS. Positive areas include the olfactory bulb, parts of the cortex, the hippocampal formation and substantia nigra where Nurr1 and tyrosine hydroxylase mRNAs were co-expressed. 6-Hydroxydopamine-induced degeneration of mesencephalic dopamine neurons led to a corresponding loss of Nurr1 mRNA, demonstrating a link between Nurr1 and dopaminergic neurons. NGFI-B mRNA was not found in the prenatal CNS but was highly expressed in the adult brain in many areas including the olfactory bulb, cortex, basal ganglia and hippocampus. The spatiotemporal distribution of Nurr1 and NGFI-B mRNAs suggests that these transcription factors are involved in the development and maturation of specific sets of CNS neurons. The experimental data imply that one of these functions may be to control gene regulatory events important for development and function of those neurons that degenerate in patients with Parkinson's disease.
The possibility that 5,6,7,8-tetrahydrobiopterin (BH4) biosynthesis is stimulated in glial cells by treatment with lipopolysaccharide (LPS) and tumor necrosis factor (TNF-alpha) was examined in the astrocyte-derived C6 glioma cell line. Under basal culture conditions BH4 levels were found to be at the limit of detection. Concurrent treatment with 10 micrograms/ml LPS and 50 ng/ml TNF-alpha caused a time-dependent 13-fold increase in the levels of BH4. This treatment paradigm also induced nitric oxide synthase activity, as evidenced by increased levels of nitrite, an oxidized metabolite of NO, in the culture medium. LPS and TNF-alpha treatment led to a 25-fold increase in GTPCH enzyme activity, the first and rate-limiting enzyme in BH4 synthesis, and a corresponding 23-fold increase in GTPCH protein levels. Northern blot analysis showed that increased levels of GTPCH mRNA preceded changes in GTPCH protein, GTPCH enzyme activity and BH4 levels and reached a maximal of 44-fold that was sustained for at least 48 h. These results demonstrate that LPS and TNF-alpha stimulate de-novo BH4 biosynthesis and suggest that C6 cells offer a model system for studying the molecular events that control the induction of GTPCH gene expression and BH4 synthesis in glial cells.
We assessed the effect of an opener of ATP-sensitive K+ channel, levcromakalim (BRL 38227, (-)6-cyano-3,4-dihydro-2, 2-dimethyl-trans-4-(2-oxo-1-pyrrolidyl)-2H-1-benzopyran-3-ol) on seizure threshold and severity of the hippocampus-generating partial seizures in rats. For comparison, an ATP-sensitive K+ channel blocker, glibenclamide; K+ channel blocker, tetraethylammonium; Ca2+ channel antagonist, nimodipine and Ca2+ channel agonist, (+/-)-BAY K 8644 (1,4-dihydro-2, 6-dimethyl-5-nitro-4-[2-(trifluoromethyl)-phenyl]-3-pyridinecarboxyli c acid methyl ester) were also examined. Seizure threshold was determined using pulse number threshold and seizure severity was ascertained using afterdischarge duration. Levcromakalim decreased afterdischarge duration at 10 nmol i.c.v. and decreased pulse number threshold at 100 nmol i.c.v. Tetraethylammonium at 10 nmol i.c.v. increased afterdischarge duration selectively and at 100 nmol i.c.v. induced spontaneous seizures. Glibenclamide (1-100 nmol i.c.v.) failed to change pulse number threshold and afterdischarge duration. Nimodipine (40 mg/kg i.p.) decreased afterdischarge duration and pulse number threshold. BAY K 8644 (1 mg/kg i.p.) decreased pulse number threshold and increased afterdischarge duration. In addition, voltage-clamp recording from neuroblastoma x glioma hybrid cells indicates that levcromakalim inhibited the fast component of Ca(2+)-dependent K+ currents, in addition to the inhibition of T- and L-types of voltage-dependent Ca2+ currents reported (Ito et al., FEBS Lett. 262, 313, 1990). These results suggest that levcromakalim shows anti- and proconvulsive actions in the hippocampus-generating partial seizures in rats and these effects might be, at least partly, caused by inhibiting Ca2+ channel and Ca(2+)-dependent K+ channel, respectively.
Stimulation of two metabotropic glutamate-receptor subtypes, mGluR1 and mGluR5, triggers the release of Ca2+ from intracellular stores through the inositol-(1,4,5) trisphosphate (InsP3) pathway. Here we report that glutamate induces single-peaked intracellular Ca2+ mobilization in mGluR1alpha-transfected cells but elicits Ca2+ oscillations in mGluR5a-transfected cells. The response patterns of the intracellular Ca2+ increase depend upon the identity of a single amino acid, aspartate (at position 854) or threonine (at position 840), located within the G-protein-interacting domains of mGluR1alpha and mGluR5a, respectively. Pharmacological and peptide mapping analyses indicated that phosphorylation of the threonine residue at position 840 of mGluR5a by protein kinase C (PKC) is responsible for the generation of Ca2+ oscillations in mGluR5a-expressing cells. To our knowledge this is the first evidence that PKC phosphorylation of G-protein-coupled receptors is important in producing oscillations in intracellular Ca2+ signalling.
Classical conditioning of Aplysia's siphon-withdrawal reflex is thought to be due to a presynaptic mechanism-activity-dependent presynaptic facilitation of sensorimotor connections. Recent experiments with sensorimotor synapses in dissociated cell culture, however, provide an alternative cellular mechanism for classical conditioning-Hebbian long-term potentiation (LTP) of sensorimotor connections. Induction of Hebbian LTP of these connections is mediated by activation of N-methyl-D-aspartate-related receptors and requires the postsynaptic elevation of intracellular Ca2+. To determine whether the enhancement of sensorimotor synapses during classical conditioning in Aplysia-like LTP of sensorimotor synapses in culture-also depends upon the elevation of postsynaptic Ca2+, we carried out experiments involving the cellular analog of classical conditioning of siphon withdrawal. We examined changes in the strength of monosynaptic siphon sensorimotor connections in the abdominal ganglion of Aplysia following paired presentations of sensory neuron activation and tail nerve shock. This training regimen resulted in significant enhancement of the monosynaptic sensorimotor excitatory postsynaptic potential, as compared with the sensorimotor excitatory postsynaptic potential in preparations that received only test stimulation. Infusing the motor neuron with 1,2-bis(2-aminophenoxy)ethane-N,N-N',N'-tetraacetic acid, a specific chelator of intracellular Ca2+, prior to paired stimulation training blocked this synaptic enhancement. Our results implicate a postsynaptic, possibly Hebbian, mechanism in classical conditioning in Aplysia.
Hippocampal neuron loss is widely viewed as a hallmark of normal aging. Moreover, neuronal degeneration is thought to contribute directly to age-related deficits in learning and memory supported by the hippocampus. By taking advantage of improved methods for quantifying neuron number, the present study reports evidence challenging these long-standing concepts. The status of hippocampal-dependent spatial learning was evaluated in young and aged Long-Evans rats using the Morris water maze, and the total number of neurons in the principal cell layers of the dentate gyrus and hippocampus was quantified according to the optical fractionator technique. For each of the hippocampal fields, neuron number was preserved in the aged subjects as a group and in aged individuals with documented learning and memory deficits indicative of hippocampal dysfunction. The findings demonstrate that hippocampal neuronal degeneration is not an inevitable consequence of normal aging and that a loss of principal neurons in the hippocampus fails to account for age-related learning and memory impairment. The observed preservation of neuron number represents an essential foundation for identifying the neurobiological effects of hippocampal aging that account for cognitive decline.
The invasion of sodium spikes from the soma into dendrites was studied in hippocampal pyramidal cells by simultaneous extracellular and intracellular recordings in anesthetized rats and by simultaneous extracellular recordings of the somatic and dendritic potentials in freely behaving animals. During complex-spike patterns, recorded in the immobile or sleeping animal, dendritic invasion of successive spikes was substantially attenuated. Complex-spike bursts occurred in association with population discharge of CA3-CA1 pyramidal cells (sharp wave field events). Synaptic inhibition reduced the amplitude of sodium spikes in the dendrites and prevented the occurrence of calcium spikes. These findings indicate that (i) the voltage-dependent calcium influx into the dendrites is under the control of inhibitory neurons and (ii) the temporal coincidence of synaptic depolarization and activation of voltage-dependent calcium conductances by the backpropagating spikes during sharp wave bursts may be critical for synaptic plasticity in the intact hippocampus.
To determine the regional and cellular distribution of the kainate receptor subtype in the LC, we combined immunoperoxidase labeling of an antibody which recognized the three identified members of the kainate receptor subunit class, with immunogold-silver localization of tyrosine hydroxylase (TH). Light microscopy showed that kainate receptor-like (KAr-li) immunoreactivity was dense throughout the LC. Electron microscopy revealed that KAr-li immunoreactivity was mainly located at synaptic and extrasynaptic portions of the plasmalemma in dendrites and somata, many of which also contained gold-silver labeling for TH. Unlabeled axon terminals often formed asymmetric (excitatory-type) synaptic contacts with postsynaptic dendrites containing KAr-li immunolabeling. In perikarya, KAr-li immunoreactivity was often associated with subcellular organelles including the Golgi apparatus and endoplasmic reticulum. Axon terminals were infrequently immunolabeled for KAr-li in the LC. These results provide the first direct ultrastructural evidence that the excitatory amino acid, glutamate, may locally modulate noradrenergic neurons in the LC through kainate-type receptors located at postsynaptic and extrasynaptic cellular sites.
Primary astrocyte cultures from neonatal rats were swollen by exposure to hypotonic buffer with and without 10 microM methylmercury (MeHg). We investigated the effects of MeHg on K+ (using 86Rb), taurine, D-aspartate (a non metabolizable analogue of glutamate) and Na+ fluxes during regulatory volume decrease (RVD), with an electrical impedance method for determination of cell volume, coupled with on-line measurements of efflux of radioactive ions and amino acids. Addition of 10 microM MeHg completely inhibited RVD in swollen astrocytes, increased the uptake of 22Na+, increased 86Rb release, and decreased 3H-taurine release. There was no effect on the rate of release of 3H-D-aspartate from swollen astrocytes. 0.5 mM amiloride completely inhibited MeHg-induced increased Na+ influx during RVD, while 1 mM furosemide had no effect. When Na+ in the hypotonic buffer was replaced with N-methyl-D-glucamine (NMDG), RVD in the presence of MeHg was indistinguishable from controls. These results indicate that MeHg increases cellular permeability to ions such as Na+ and K+, and that an increase in Na+ permeability via Na+/H+ exchange, offsetting K+ loss, is the primary mechanism in its inhibition of RVD in swollen astrocytes.
We have reexamined the retinal distribution and dendritic field dimensions of beta cells in the cat retina. Beta cells were labeled by retrograde transport from the A-layers of the lateral geniculate nucleus and distinguished from alpha cells on the basis of soma size. Dendritic fields of beta cells were visualized by intracellular staining in vitro. The fraction of cat ganglion cells that were beta cells varied with retinal location. Except near the area centralis, beta cells represented about half of all ganglion cells in the nasal hemiretina. They contributed as heavily as the other major ganglion cell classes to the nasal visual streak. In and near the area centralis and in the temporal retina, beta cells represented about two-thirds of all ganglion cells. The areas of beta cell dendritic fields were reciprocally related to beta cell density. For example, they were 3-fold smaller within the visual streak than at matched eccentricities outside it. For many cells, we could estimate both local beta cell density and dendritic field area. Coverage factor (dendritic field area x local density) remained constant at about 4 despite 100-fold variations in beta cell density, and was independent of eccentricity, nasotemporal location, or position relative to the visual streak. Analysis in terms of sampling theory suggests that the beta cell array is matched to X-cell spatial resolution so as to optimize acuity. The beta cell distribution and its systematic reflection in dendritic architecture predict acuity levels that apparently correlate well with actual visual performance across the cat's visual field.
Many reports based upon correlation dimension studies have suggested the chaotic nature of electroencephalographic spike and wave activity (SW). Another study found no evidence for this, showing that surrogate stochastic data generated from SW have the same dynamical properties as the original data. The present paper explicitly models SW as the output of a non-linear stochastic system. Non-linear non-parametric kernel autoregression is used to show that the attractor of this system may be a limit cycle. The addition of system noise originates a simulated time series with the same interspike interval variability originally hypothesized as chaotic. Tests performed on the correlation dimension obtained from the original data as well as from both linear and non-linear surrogates show that the noise-perturbed limit cycle model achieves the best fit to the original data. We conclude that SW is likely to be a form of stochastic disturbed limit cycle behaviour rather than chaos.
The effect of chronic treatment with the cholinesterase inhibitor tacrine on alpha 4 beta 2 nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (nAChRs) was investigated in a transfected fibroblast cell line, M10. Tacrine significantly increased (+46%; 5 x 10(-8) to 10(-5) M) and decreased (-74%; 2 x 10(-5) to 10(-4) M) the number of nAChRs in the M10 cells in a concentration-dependent manner when using [3H]cytisine as labelled ligand. The mRNA levels for alpha 4 or beta 2 nAChR subunits remained unchanged following the treatment. The tacrine-induced increase in number of nAChRs was significantly blocked by the antagonist mecamylamine (10(-4) M), while tubocurarine (10(-4) M) had no effect. Neither of the antagonists prevented the decrease in the number of nAChRs obtained at the higher concentration of tacrine. Similar to nicotine, tacrine (5 x 10(-5) M) decreased the turnover rate of nAChRs, which might indicate neuroprotective properties. This study demonstrates that tacrine interacts with two sites on nAChRs, where activation of the noncompetitive allosteric site might contribute to the clinical efficacy of tacrine treatment in AD patients.
The therapeutic efficacy of single or repeated doses of HI-6, together with atropine, against soman poisoning were compared both in guinea pigs and in marmoset monkeys. In addition, the pharmacokinetics of HI-6 were determined after single or repeated injections. Both single and repeated HI-6 injections protected guinea pigs effectively against 2 x LD50 soman. The plasma levels of HI-6 after single HI-6 injection fitted a one-compartment elimination model. The plasma levels of HI-6 following repeated injections were in accordance with those predicted using the data obtained after single HI-6 injection. No evidence was found for any disturbance of the HI-6 elimination in guinea pigs following soman intoxication. Marmosets were intoxicated with 2 x LD50 soman (s.c.), followed after 1 min by i.m. injections of atropine and HI-6. One and 2 h later, four animals received additional HI-6 injections. The pharmacokinetics of HI-6 in plasma, after single and repeated HI-6 injections were similar to those found in the guinea pig. Furthermore, repeated HI-6 injections protected effectively against soman: four out of four animals survived, in fair condition. In contrast, only one out of four animals receiving single HI-6-treatment fully recovered within a few days. Two animals died, the fourth animal survived, but had to be euthanized 3 weeks after intoxication.

The aim of the present study was to analyse quantitatively, on a cat gastrocnemius muscle preparation in vivo, the effects of local angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibition by enalaprilat on total regional vascular resistance (tone) and its distribution to the large-bore arterial resistance vessels (&gt; 25 microns), the small arterioles (&lt; 25 microns) and the veins. Associated effects on capillary pressure and fluid exchange were also studied. Close-arterial infusion of enalaprilat (0.05-0.20 mg kg muscle tissue min-1) elicited a moderate dilator response in all three consecutive sections of the muscle vascular bed, an increase in capillary pressure and transcapillary fluid filtration. This dilation could be abolished by the selective bradykinin B2-receptor antagonist Hoe 140 (2 mg kg-1 min-1, i.a.), indicating that the dilator mechanism of ACE inhibition was an increased local concentration of bradykinin, and hardly at all a decreased concentration of angiotensin (AT) II. The generalized dilator response to ACE inhibition along the vascular bed suggested a relatively uniform distribution of ACE from artery to vein and this was further supported by the finding that a close-arterial infusion of AT I (0.04-0.32 microgram kg-1 min-1), which was vasoactive only after conversion to AT II by local ACE, elicited a generalized constrictor response in all three vascular sections. In contrast, infused AT II (0.01-0.16 microgram kg-1 min-1) constricted almost selectively the large-bore arterial vessels. The specific angiotensin AT1-receptor antagonist losartan (2 mg kg-1 min-1, i.a.) abolished the constrictor response to AT II but did not affect vascular tone under control conditions, indicating that AT II is not involved in the initiation of basal vascular tone in muscle. These results, taken together, indicate that under basal conditions vascular ACE contributes to the local control of vascular tone in skeletal muscle by degrading the endogenous dilator bradykinin, and not by converting AT I into vasoconstrictor AT II.
Muscle sympathetic nerve activity (MSNA) is suppressed during thermoneutral head-out water immersion (HOI) in humans. In this study, the effects of ageing on the suppressive response of MSNA to HOI were determined. MSNA was recorded microneurographically from the tibial nerve in 16 healthy men, 10 of whom were aged 19-30 years (young group) and six aged 45-67 years (older group). MSNA was suppressed in all the subjects during HOI. The suppressive response was significantly less prominent in the older group than in the young group. A significant negative correlation between age and the suppressive response of MSNA induced by HOI (r = -0.53, P &lt; 0.05) was found. We conclude that suppressive response of sympathetic nerve activity to HOI is reduced with age.
Leanna Standish, ND, PhD, is the principal investigator for the Bastyr University AIDS Research Center and codirector of the Bastyr Research Institute. She also serves as director of research at Bastyr University and as a staff physician at the University Health Clinic. She is a licensed naturopathic physician and will soon complete her training as an acupuncturist. Dr Standish received her doctoral degree in biopsychology from the University of Massachusetts. She completed a postdoctoral fellowship in psychopharmacology at the Yerbes Primate Research Center, co-directed Smith College's neuroscience program, and served for 2 years as a visiting scientist/senior fellow in the University of Washington's Department of Physiology and Biophysics. Alternative Therapies interviewed Dr Standish at her office at Bastyr University in Seattle, Wash.

Endogenous opioid peptides serve as growth factors in normal and neoplastic cells and tissues, and both opioids and their receptors have been identified in human colon cancer. This study examined the hypothesis that opioids serve to modulate the growth of human colon cancer. Daily administration of the native opioid growth factor (OGF), [Met5]enkephalin, at dosages of 0.5, 5, or 25 mg/kg prevented the occurrence of human colon cancer HT-29 xenografts in nude mice. More than 80% of the mice receiving OGF beginning at the time of tumor cell inoculation did not exhibit neoplasias within 3 wk, in comparison with a tumor incidence of 93% in control subjects. Even 7 wk after cancer cell inoculation, 57% of the mice given OGF did not display a tumor. OGF delayed tumor appearance and growth in animals developing colon cancer with respect to the control group. The suppressive effects of OGF on oncogenicity were opioid receptor mediated. OGF and its receptor, zeta (zeta), were detected in transplanted human HT-29 colon tumors. Surgical specimens of human colon cancers also contained OGF. These results show that a naturally occurring opioid peptide acts as a potent negative regulator of human gastrointestinal cancer and may suggest pathways for tumor etiology, progression, treatment, and prophylaxis.
We used conjoint manipulation of taste and physiological state to address the theoretical issue of signal integration. The interaction between taste (glucose concentration) and state (food deprivation) was evaluated using the taste reactivity method in which oral motor responses elicited by direct intraoral infusion are measured. The time frame of the typical taste reactivity paradigm, where observation is limited to the infusion period, was expanded to include the postinfusion interval. In each test session, rats received a series of trials consisting of 15-s intraoral infusions and 45-s postinfusion observation intervals. Two experiments were run in which glucose concentration was varied and rats were run nondeprived and after 24 h food deprivation. In experiment 1, glucose concentrations (0, 3.2, 6.25, 12.5, and 25%) were randomly presented during each test session. In experiment 2, individual glucose concentrations (0, 6.25, or 25%) were presented during separate sessions. For both, a deprivation condition was flanked by nondeprived (baseline) sessions. Concentration-response functions were comparable in both experiments. In each experiment, the shape of the concentration-response function was dramatically different during and after infusions. During infusions, there were no increases in glucose-elicited rhythmic oral responses beyond a very dilute concentration. After infusions, the concentration-response functions appeared linear across the concentration range. In both experiments, deprivation elevated responding only in the after-infusion periods. In experiment 1, the concentration-response function was uniformly elevated (on average, 27%) by deprivation, which if taken at face value would suggest an additive combination of taste and state feedback signals. In experiment 2, however, deprivation increased responding (approximately 30%) for 6.25%, but not for 0 or 25%, suggesting a stimulus specificity of the taste-state integration. Clearly then, the taste-state profiles differed as a function of experimental design. In the GENERAL DISCUSSION, we suggest that the uniform elevation of responding to all glucose concentrations, and to water, seen in experiment 1, may be an artifact of the random presentation of all stimuli during individual sessions. Experiment 2, in which stimuli were presented in a between-sessions design, may provide a truer reflection of the underlying integrative process.
Native opioid peptides serve as growth factors in a number of normal and neoplastic cells and tissues, including the prevention and delayed growth of human colon cancer xenografts in nude mice. This study examined the hypothesis that opioids exert a direct inhibitory influence on tumor cell growth by the use of a tissue culture model. The naturally occurring pentapeptide [Met5]enkephalin depressed growth of HT-29 human colon cancer cells from 17 to 41% at 12-72 h after administration of 10(-6)M concentration; consistent with previously defined nomenclature, this peptide was termed opioid growth factor (OGF). OGF action exhibited a dose-response relationship, was reversible and not cytotoxic, and was opioid receptor mediated. Growth inhibition by OGF was not dependent on serum, and was noted in the two other human colon cancer cell lines examined WiDr and COLO 205. This peptide continually repressed growth because an increase in cell number was noted when cells were exposed to the potent opioid antagonist naltrexone or an antibody to OGF. Both OGF and its receptor, zeta (zeta), were found in colon cancer cells by immunocytochemistry, and receptor binding assays revealed a nuclear-associated receptor with a dissociation constant of 8.9 nM and a maximum binding capacity of 43 fmol/mg of protein. OGF was produced and secreted by the tumor cells. These results lead to the suggestion that OGF has a direct, tonic, inhibitory action on the growth of human colon cancer cells and contribute to our understanding of the mechanisms underlying the marked antitumor effect of this peptide in nude mice inoculated with human colon cancer cells.


We wished to assess general practitioners' and psychiatrists' sensitivity and specificity in the diagnosis of depression, rationale for drug of choice, average and range of prescribed daily doses of antidepressants, and use of therapeutic drug monitoring (TDM). A questionnaire survey was given to 264 psychiatrists and general practitioners (GPs) in one urban area of Stockholm and the rural county of Jamtland, Sweden. The response rate was 86% (n = 228). The survey was validated against independent studies of actual prescription rates. One of eight physicians presented with a hypothetical case history of major depression appeared unwilling to use antidepressants. Two-thirds of the GPs and one-fourth of the psychiatrists usually prescribed doses that were too low. Many doctors never prescribed doses higher than 150 mg/day of common tricyclic antidepressants, although many patients clearly need higher doses. The choice of drug was based mostly on the therapeutic tradition and seldom on considerations of scientific evidence. The few physicians who utilized TDM (plasma concentrations) for dosing prescribed a more flexible dosage schedule and higher average doses as well as higher maximal doses. Interestingly, there were no significant differences in dosing between GPs and psychiatrists in this group, while striking differences were found in the whole study group, with GPs prescribing much smaller doses. Regular use of TDM as a means for individualizing the dose regimen of antidepressants should be encouraged, as well as continuous education of general practitioners in the diagnosis and treatment of depression.
We studied neuronal activity and its relation to the accumulation of neurofibrillary tangles in Alzheimer's disease (AD) neurons by in situ hybridization to cytochrome oxidase subunit III messenger RNA, a marker of mitochondrial energy metabolism. In AD midtemporal cortex, levels of cytochrome oxidase subunit III messenger RNA were decreased by 26% in neurons bearing early-stage neurofibrillary tangles as compared to tangle-free neurons (p &lt; 0.01). However, levels of 12S ribosomal RNA, also encoded by mitochondrial DNA, and of total messenger RNA were decreased only in later stages of tangle development. Comparing tangle-free neurons of 4 AD brains to tangle-free neurons of 3 control brains, levels of cytochrome oxidase subunit III messenger RNA were found to be 25% lower (p &lt; 0.001) in AD tangle-free neurons. Because energy metabolic needs of neurons are mainly determined by synaptic input, the observed decreases in cytochrome oxidase subunit III messenger RNA likely reflect downregulation due to impaired synaptic function in AD. Thus, a failure in synaptic transmission may precede tangle formation. A further decline in neuronal activity is seen as tangle formation progresses. However, these results can also be viewed as showing the viability and continuing activity, albeit at a lower level, of neurons in the early stages of neurofibrillary pathology.

The spinocerebellar ataxias (SCAs) are a clinically and genetically heterogeneous group of late onset neurodegenerative disorders. To date, seven different genes causing autosomal dominant SCA have been mapped: SCA1, SCA2, Machado-Joseph disease (MJD)SCA3, SCA4, SCA5, SCA7 and dentatorubropallidoluysian atrophy (DRPLA). Expansions of an unstable trinucleotide CAG repeat cause three of these disorders: SCA1, MJD/SCA3 and DRPLA. We studied one Brazilian family segregating an autosomal dominant type of SCA. A total of ten individuals were examined and tested for the presence of the SCA1, MJD and DRPLA mutations. Three individuals, one male, and two females, were considered affected based on neurological examination; ages at onset were 32, 36 and 41 years. The first complaint in all three patients was gait ataxia which progressed slowly over the years. Six individuals showed one allele containing an expanded CAG repeat in the SCA1 gene. The mean size of the expanded allele was 48.2 CAG units. Instability of the expanded CAG tract was seen in the two transmissions that were observed in this family. In both occasions there was a contraction of the CAG tract. Our study demonstrates that SCA1 occurs in the Brazilian population. In addition, our results stress the importance of molecular studies in the confirmation of diagnosis and for pre-symptomatic testing in SCAs.

Personal stress has been identified as the most significant issue for neuroscience nurses (NNs) who care for patients in persistent vegetative states (PVS). Several factors outside the realm of nursing contribute to this stress. One factor that NNs can influence is how they deal with terminating nourishment. This is discussed in the context of the significance of food in our society, and a recommendation that should help NNs to deal with this issue is presented.

Aspects of cognitive processing in patients with cerebellar degeneration (CD) were studied in order to examine the validity of recent findings that CD patients demonstrate deficits in visuospatial cognition and verbal-associative learning. Two groups of patients with CD were compared to stratified matched control groups on tests examining selective visual attention, visual spatial attention, mental rotation of geometric designs, and memory for the temporal order of words they were previously exposed to. CD patients performed similarly to their matched controls across all tasks. These results indicate that the reported cognitive deficits of CD patients are quite selective and need further specification in order to more fully describe their relationship to cerebellar dysfunction.
The aim of this paper was to study the role of the prelimbic area of rats in response selection. A bilateral electrolytic lesion was made in the prelimbic area. The rats were tested in the Morris water-maze, the conditioned shock-prod burying test, the elevated plus-maze, a modified open field test, and the step-through passive avoidance test. In the water-maze during initial acquisition, the latency times of the lesioned rats were not different from those of the controls, but they found the platform faster than the sham operated rats after the platform was placed in a new position. The lesion did not affect performance in the shock-prod burying test. In the elevated plus-maze the lesioned rats were more active than the sham-operated rats and spent more time on the open arms. In the open field there was no difference between lesioned and sham-operated rats with regard to distance travelled or the time spent near the object in the center of the open field. In the passive avoidance test the lesioned rats had a shorter latency time to enter the shock compartment during the retention trial than the sham-operated rats did. The results were discussed in relation to those of similar studies. The extent and precise localisation of the lesion seems to be crucial for the outcome: lesions confined to the prelimbic area may have the opposite effects of larger lesions. Furthermore, it may well be that the prelimbic area is only involved in processing of stimuli of a specific sensory modality, as made probable by the results of different conditioned reinforcement tasks. Finally, it was stated that we still lack a hypothesis about the precise role of the prelimbic area in response selections.
The nucleus accumbens is often considered as an interface between limbic and motor brain structures. In the present experiment, we investigated the effect of a bilateral lesion of the nucleus accumbens on a motor task with attentional constraints. Four male cats were trained to reach for a mobile target that was only accessible for a short period of time and after a variable delay of expectation. They were food-rewarded. Their visuomotor performance was analyzed in speed and accuracy. Their ECoG was recorded to evaluate the occurrence of beta-rhythms that have been shown to be related to a behaviour of focalized attention. After stabilization of their visuomotor performance, all subjects underwent a bilateral neurotoxic lesion of the nucleus accumbens. After lesion, cats were able to maintain their focalized attention while waiting for the target for longer periods of time and the probability of beta-activity increased. Their visuomotor performance showed an improvement both in accuracy and in speed. Moreover, unexpected external stimuli were less efficient in diverting the cats' attention from their task, so that the proportion of unsuccessful trials due to inattention decreased after lesion. The data showed that the lesion induced a focalization of attention resulting in an improvement of motor performance. The role of the nucleus accumbens both in attention control and in modulating motor output is discussed together with the possible cerebral pathway involved.

Both the aging of animals and the senescence of cultured cells involve an altered pattern of gene expression, suggesting changes in transcription factor regulation. We studied age-related changes in transcription factors nuclear factor (NF)-kappa B, activator protein factor-1 (AP-1) and Sp-1 by using electrophoretic mobility shift binding assays; we also analysed changes in the protein components of NF-kappa B complex with Western blot assays. Nuclear and cytoplasmic extracts were prepared from heart, liver, kidney and brain of young adult and old NMRI mice and Wistar rats as well as from presenescent, senescent and simian virus 40-immortalized human WI-38 fibroblasts. Aging of both mice and rats induced a strong and consistent increase in the nuclear binding activity of NF-kappa B factor in all tissues studied, whereas those of AP-1 and Sp-1 decreased, e.g. in liver. Protein levels of p50, p52 and p65 components of the NF-kappa B complex did not show any age-associated changes in the cytoplasmic fraction but in the nuclear fraction the level of p52 strongly increased in heart and liver during aging. The protein levels of inhibitory I kappa B-alpha and Bcl-3 components were not affected by aging in any of the tissues studied. Replicative cellular senescence of human WI-38 fibroblasts induced a strong decrease in nuclear NF-kappa B, AP-1 and Sp-1 binding activities. Protein levels of p50 and p52 components of NF-kappa B complex were decreased in the nuclear fraction of senescent WI-38 fibroblasts but in the cytoplasm of senescent fibroblasts the level of p65 protein was increased. Cellular senescence also slightly decreased the protein levels of I kappa B-alpha and Bcl-3. Transfection assays with NF-kappa B-enhancer-driven chloramphenicol acetyltransferase reporter gene showed a significant down-regulation of NF-kappa B promoter activity in senescent WI-38 fibroblasts. Results suggest that the aging process might be regulated differently in tissues and cultured fibroblasts, perhaps reflecting differences between mitotic and post-mitotic cells. In tissues, aging seems to involve specific changes in the regulation of NF-kappa B components and perhaps also changes in the DNA-binding affinities of the NF-kappa B complex.
Time-dependent distribution of extracellular proteins (albumin, fibrinogen, fibronectin, collagen-I and IgG) in the interface zone between implant and soft tissue has been investigated utilizing a recently developed method. Commercially pure (c.p.) titanium and polytetrafluoroethylene (PTFE) implants were inserted in the abdominal wall of rats for 1, 6 and 12 weeks followed by a mild fixation, cryoprotection, rapid freezing in LN2-cooled propane, cryosubstitution and low-temperature infiltration with UV curing of the methacrylate LR-Gold. Before sectioning, the bulk part of the titanium was removed by an electrolytical dissolution technique (electropolishing), while the PTFE implants were removed by a fracture technique. Employing a cryosubstitution method combined with postembedding immunohistochemistry, a light microscopic analysis was allowed. The selected proteins had an apparently varying distribution in the implant-close tissue and their distribution changed during the follow-up period. There was also a difference in the distribution pattern for each protein around titanium and PTFE implants. Insertion of the c.p. titanium implants elicited an inflammatory reaction in many respects similar to a normal wound healing response, while the PTFE implants caused a more pronounced, persistent inflammation.
1. The 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT) receptors mediating contraction of human isolated pulmonary artery rings were investigated. Responses to the agonists 5-carboximidotryptamine (5-CT, non-selective 5-HT1 agonist), sumatriptan (5-HT1D-like receptor agonist), 5-HT and 8-hydroxy-2-(di-n-propylamino)-tetralin (8-OH-DPAT, 5-HT1A receptor agonist) were studied. Responses to 5-HT and sumatriptan in the presence of the antagonists, methiothepin (non-selective 5-HT1+2-receptor antagonist), ketanserin (5-HT2A receptor antagonist) and the novel antagonist, GR55562 (5-HT1D receptor antagonist) were also studied. 2. All agonists contracted human pulmonary artery ring preparations in the following order of potency 5-CT &gt; 5-HT = sumatriptan &gt; 8-OH-DPAT. Maximum responses to 5-HT, 5-CT and sumatriptan were not significantly different. 3. Methiothepin 1 nM and 10 nM, but not 0.1 nM reduced the maximum contractile responses to 5-HT but did not alter tissue sensitivity to 5-HT. Methiothepin 0.1 nM, 1 nM and 10 nM had a similar effect on responses to sumatriptan. 4. The 5-HT2A receptor antagonist ketanserin (10 nM, 100 nM and 1 microM) also reduced the maximum contractile response to both 5-HT and sumatriptan without affecting tissue sensitivity to these agonists. 5. The novel 5-HT1D receptor antagonist, GR55562, inhibited responses to 5-HT and sumatriptan in a true competitive fashion. 6. The results suggest that the human pulmonary artery has a functional population of 5-HT1D-like receptors which are involved in the contractile response to 5-HT.
To determine the development and prognosis of patients with the moderate congenital form of congenital non-progressive myopathies (CNM), we investigated 55 patients with CNM by questionnaires. This patient group included 18 with nemaline myopathy, 11 with central core disease, 3 with myotubular myopathy, 15 with congenital fiber type disproportion and 3 with minicore disease. As to motor development, almost all patients had learned to walk alone by 3 years of age, averaging 2 2/12 years. Central nervous system involvement including mental retardation was seen in 24% of the patients, predominantly in patients with myopathy. The level of mental retardation was not related to the severity of muscle weakness. Patients with central core disease had a higher frequency of skeletal deformities. CNM were not necessarily benign in their prognosis as previously thought, but sometimes showed progressive deterioration leading to death. In 16% of patients, progressive deterioration in muscle strength and respiratory function became manifest after once the patient became ambulant. Even in the benign congenital form, seven of 55 patients died from respiratory or cardiac failures by 20 years of age. Therefore evaluation of cardiopulmonary function at regular intervals is important in the continuing care of patients with CNM.
Age-related changes in semantic context effects were examined using late event-related brain potentials (ERPs). Auditory ERPs to semantically congruous and incongruous final words in spoken sentences were recorded in 16 children (aged 5-11 years) and 16 adults. Previous findings concerning age-related effects on N400 were replicated: the N400 effect was significantly larger in children than in adults. The main new finding was that a late positive component (LPC) following N400 and modulated by semantic context in adults was not found in children. Thus, the common generalization that semantic context effects decline with age holds only for ERP components occurring in the N400 time window or earlier. The cognitive function reflected by the semantic LPC we observed is not clear, but it seems to have a role different from that of the N400, although in adults the components often co-exist as an N400-LPC complex.
The anteroventral periventricular nucleus (AVPV) of the preoptic region represents an essential component of neural pathways regulating gonadotropin secretion, and contains sexually dimorphic populations of neurons that express dynorphin or enkephalin. In the present study we used in situ hybridization to measure prodynorphin (PDYN) and proenkephalin (PENK) mRNA in the AVPV of intact animals killed on each day of the cycle. Levels of PDYN mRNA were lowest in animals killed on the afternoon of proestrus and then increased by over 60% by the morning of the following day. Expression of PENK mRNA was generally stable during the cycle, but a small yet significant reduction was detected on proestrus relative to levels of PENK mRNA in animals killed on the day of diestrus. In addition, we used double in situ hybridization to demonstrate that the majority of PDYN mRNA-containing neurons express both estrogen (50%) and progesterone receptor (85%) mRNAs. Only one quarter of the PENK-containing neurons also co-express estrogen receptor mRNA, and fewer than 10% of the PENK mRNA neurons express PR mRNA. Thus, the differential expression of PDYN and PENK during the cycle generally correlates with distinct differences in the degree of colocalization of ER and PR mRNA in PDYN and PENK mRNA-containing neurons in the AVPV.
Several studies have shown marked changes in the regional expression pattern of N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor subunit composition in vivo in the developing brain. Similar developmental changes may also occur in vitro. Thus, displacement of [3H]MK-801 binding by the subunit-selective NMDA antagonist, ifenprodil, in membrane homogenates prepared from cultured neurones, has been shown to comprise two components, the relative proportion of which changed with time in culture [11]. In the present experiments we have used electrophysiological methods to determine the influence of time in culture on NMDA receptor subtype expression pattern in individual neurones. Shortly after plating (13 days in vitro (DIV)), approximately 70% of total NMDA-induced inward current in voltage-clamped rat cortical neurones is antagonised by ifenprodil with relatively high affinity (approximately 1 microM). By 65 DIV, however, the high-affinity component contributed to only approximately 20% of the overall antagonism. Cerebellar granule cells also appear to undergo a similar change in their NMDA receptor expression with the exception that, in general, they appear initially to show considerably less of the ifenprodil high-affinity component and this disappears completely by 15 DIV. These experiments suggest that individual cortical and granule cells express at least two different NMDA receptor subtypes and that their relative proportion changes with time in culture.
The synaptotagmins together with other vesicle proteins are thought to be essential for the docking and/or fusion of synaptic vesicles with the plasma membrane that occurs following depolarization and calcium influx in presynatic terminals. Syt4, the fourth identified member of the synaptotagmin family, is inducible in PC12 cells by depolarization and secretagogues, and in limbic regions of the adult rat brain by kainic acid-induced seizures. In the present study, we examined the time course of the seizure-induced changes in the expression of Syt4 and Syt1, both in adult animals and during the postnatal period. Syt4 was transiently induced in several structures of the adult rat brain following seizure activity with peak inductions between 4 and 8 h and overal return to control values by 30 h. No induction was observed following seizure activity in 7-day-old animals. The brain regions most sensitive to increased induction were, in decreasing order of sensitivity, hippocampal pyramidal cells dentate granule cells and piriform cortex pyramidal cells. The brain areas showing the greatest Syt4 stimulation in adults were also the areas in which Syt4 was induced by seizures earlier in development. In contrast, Syt1 mRNA was depressed in adult brains following seizure activity, particularly in the dentate granule cells. Our results suggest that the differential regulation of different synaptotagmin genes following excessive neuronal activity might participate in rapid adaptation of subsequent transmitter release.
We began these experiments as an attempt to replicate in the mouse the induction by kainate (KA) of F1/GAP-43 mRNA we observed in adult rat hippocampal granule cells [Mol. Brain Res., 33 (1995) 22-28]. However, even though KA induced behavioral seizures in the mouse similar to those in the rat, neither induction of F1/GAP-43 mRNA nor subsequent mossy fiber sprouting observed in the rat was detected in three different mouse strains. It was also surprising that the distribution of constitutive levels of F1/GAP-43 mRNA in mouse and rat hippocampus was qualitatively different. Indeed, F1/GAP-43 expression in CA3 pyramidal cells was significantly greater in rat than mouse, while F1/GAP-43 expression in CA1 cells of rat and mouse was equivalent using densitometric analysis. Thus, F1/GAP-43 expression in rat is quantitatively higher in CA3 and CA1 pyramidal cells. In mouse, expression was equivalent in these two subfields. In a transgenic mouse bearing a rat F1/GAP-43 promoter-reporter (lacZ) construct (line 252), in-vivo promoter activity of F1/GAP-43 was studied in hippocampal cells. Transgene expression in hippocampal pyramidal subfields, high in CA3, low in CA1 pyramidal cells, paralleled the distribution of rat F1/GAP-43 mRNA levels, not mouse. Differences in the constitutive F1/GAP-43 expression pattern in hippocampus between rat and mouse may therefore be determined by different recognition elements present on the F1/GAP-43 promoter. KA injected into the line 252 transgenic mouse did not activate the rat F1/GAP-43 promoter in mouse hippocampal granule cells. The absence of both F1/GAP-43 mRNA expression induction and promoter activation in mouse granule cells after KA is likely related to genera differences in transcriptional regulatory mechanisms, though post-transcriptional mechanisms cannot be excluded. Since the different hippocampal chemistry of F1/GAP-43 in rat and mouse likely extends to other molecular species, behaviors in rat and mouse that depend on hippocampal function might be different as well. We therefore evaluated spatial memory ability in a delayed matching-to-sample task. In contrast to rat, we were surprised to find no evidence of the ability to learn this task in three different mouse strains. Since interest in mouse genetics in relation to behavior and memory functions of hippocampus is growing, generalizations concerning hippocampal function from studies carried out on the mouse need to be made with caution considering the specific behavioral, pharmacological, and general molecular differences observed here. One can also be opportunistic and exploit the natural variations between these two genera to gain insight into the molecular mechanisms underlying information storage.

Many studies have emphasized species differences in the serotoninergic innervation and phenotypic characteristics of the subcommissural organ in mammals. The post-natal distribution patterns of serotonin-containing fibers, the onset of gamma-aminobutyric acid uptake, and glial markers have been studied in the subcommissural organ of the semi-desertic rodent, Meriones shawi, by using immunohistochemical and autoradiographic techniques. Abundant serotoninergic fibers can be observed in the subcommissural organ of the newborn Meriones, some of them running among the ependymocytes and reaching the apical part of this organ. During the first 2 post-natal weeks of development, the subcommissural organ displays a progressive increase of serotonin fiber density throughout the organ, including the apical part. The existence of a dense serotonin-containing basal plexus concomitantly with a high apical innervation in this organ is a specific characteristic of Meriones. Ependymocytes of this organ have the ability to take up gamma-aminobutyric acid at birth. This uptake decreases and completely disappears from the 2nd week. The reappearance of gamma-aminobutyric acid accumulation in ependymocytes of the adult subcommissural organ after destruction of the serotonin innervation by a neurotoxin (5-7 dihydroxytryptamine) suggests an inhibitory effect of the serotonin innervation on this accumulation. Immunohistochemical studies of the phenotype of the ependymocytes with respect to glial markers during ontogeny show the transitory expression of glial fibrillary acidic protein, the presence of vimentin and the absence of S100 protein expression. No correlation has been found between the serotonin innervation and the expression of the glial markers.
Nitric oxide (NO) has recently been shown to regulate blood flow to choroid plexus, a specialized brain structure responsible for production of most of cerebrospinal fluid. In the present study, we used a specific polyclonal rabbit antibody against the neuronal isoform of NO synthase (NOS), a synthetic enzyme for NO, to determine the localization of NOS in the choroid plexus of adult male Sprague-Dawley rats. NOS-containing nerve fibers were found in the anterior choroidal artery and its branches, and in stromal blood microvessels. Chronic denervation experiments indicated that these nerve fibers originate predominantly from the sphenopalatine ganglion. NOS-immunopositive staining was also detected in the cytoplasm of choroidal epithelial cells. NADPH-diaphorase, a histochemical marker for NOS, was found to colocalize with NOS-immunoreactive product in both nerve fibers and choroidal epithelium. Both neuronal and epithelium-derived NO may regulate secretory function and hemodynamics of choroidal tissue.
Rodent striatal cells were immortalized using the A58 temperature-sensitive allele of the SV40 large T antigen. Seventy-eight clones and 10 mixed cultures were characterized at the nonpermissive and permissive temperatures. Based on morphology and expression of proteins, cells were classified into three primary types, with types b and c expressing some neuronal characteristics. Type a cells have an epithelial-like morphology with coarse cytoplasmic extensions and occasional fine processes. These cells express vimentin, do not grow well under serum-free conditions and, when confluent, form a uniform monolayer. Type b cells have a polygonal shape and usually extend multiple thin processes. These cells possess large nuclei with multiple nucleoli and do not express vimentin. Type c cells have a fibroblast-like appearance, are unipolar or multipolar, and their soma is smaller than that of type b cells. Type c cells do not express vimentin, and when confluent form a uniform monolayer. Some type b and c clones express N-CAM and MAP-2. Several type b and c cell lines were found to consistently express glutamic acid decarboxylase (GAD) immunoreactivity under several tissue culture conditions. Selected cell lines were transplanted into the intact adult rat brain in several locations. Cells survived well for 15 wk and did not form tumors. The proteins expressed in vivo were similar to those expressed in vitro.



It is known that the perceived color of an object depends on the context in which it is viewed, its reflectance properties and the spectral distribution of the illuminating light. What is not known, however, is how the visual system functions so that color percepts depend upon the integration of local and contextual cues. While phenomenological theories of color vision exist, robust neurally based theories consistent with psychophysical observations are sparse. In the present study we develop such a theory and establish its self-consistency by computer simulations of cerebral cortical areas involved in color perception. The simulations test the hypothesis that long-range reciprocal connections within and between cortical areas mediate a dynamic process of reentry that integrates contextual cues into the color percept. When stimuli similar to those used in psychophysical testing of contextual influence were used, firing patterns consistent with psychophysical data on color constancy and color induction in humans were observed. Selective disruption of reciprocal inter- or intra-areal connections reduced the correspondence between the model's responses and the psychophysical data. The findings are consistent with the proposal that reentrant interactions within and between cortical areas provide a major basis for the context-sensitive aspects of color vision.
The gyral morphology of the region of the primary auditory cortex (PAC) in the human brain is highly variable, and possible asymmetries between the hemispheres have been noted since the beginning of the century. We mapped the location and extent of PAC as identified from gross anatomical landmarks in magnetic resonance scans that had been transformed into Talairach-Tournoux stereotaxic space. Individual maps were averaged to produce a probabilistic map of the region which can be co-registered with any image of brain structure or function that has been similarly transformed. The map can be used to localize a region of interest, such as a lesion, or an activation focus from position omission tomography or functional magnetic resonance imaging, within a specified range of probability. We also measured the total volume of the region and found a significant L &gt; R asymmetry both on average and in the majority of subjects. Automatic segmentation of the volumes into grey and white matter revealed larger volumes of white, but not grey matter on the left. This larger volume of cortical connecting fibres may be related to the known left-hemisphere dominance for speech, and a preferential role for left PAC in processing temporal aspects of auditory stimuli is suggested.
In physicochemical and pharmacokinetic evaluations of (--)-(R)-5-[(1-methyl-1H-indol-3-yl)carbonyl] -4,5,6,7-tetrahydro-1H-benzimidazole hydrochloride 1 (YM060: ramosetron), which is a highly potent 5-hydroxytryptamine(-HT3) receptor antagonist, 4-hydroxy-6-[(1-methyl-1H-indol-3-yl) carbonyl]4,5,6,7-tetrahydro-1H-benzimidazole 2 was identified as a degradation product and metabolite of 1. The (--)-(4R,6S)-isomer 2 was synthesized from the diketone derivative 3, via the stereoselective reduction of 3 followed by the stereocontrolled epimerization of the (--)-(4S,6S)-isomer 10, the epimer of 2. The stereochemistry of 2 and 10 was determined by NMR and HPLC studies. Compounds 2 and 10 were found to be potent 5-HT3 receptor antagonists, like 1. Among the other oxidation products, the diketone derivatives 3 and 7 and the dihydroxylated derivative 4 retained antagonistic activity similar to that of ondansetron. This is of interest, because they do not possess the amine group which is known to be necessary for high affinity to the 5-HT3 receptor.
The R- and S-enantiomers of the 4,5,6,7-tetrahydro-1H-benzimidazole derivatives 3-8 were prepared by optical resolution. Each R-isomer, except for 3, was almost two orders of magnitude more potent than its S-isomer as a 5-hydroxytrptamine (5-HT3) receptor antagonist, as judged from they effect on the von Bezold-Jarisch reflex (B. J. reflex) in rats, the contraction of isolated guinea-pig colon and the receptor-binding affinity. The (--)-(R)-5-[(1-methyl-1H-indol-3-yl)carbonyl] derivative 6R.HCl (ramosetron = YM060) and (--)-(R)-5-[(1-indolinyl)carbonyl] derivative 4R.HCl (YM114 = KAE-393) given p.o. were hundreds of times more potent than 1 (ondansetron) and 2 (granisetron) in their inhibitory effects on cisplatin-induced emesis in ferrets and restraint stress-induced increases in fecal pellet output in rats. Three-dimensional molecular modeling studies suggested that the 'chiral selection' of the enantiomers might be influenced by the steric repulsion between the aromatic ring part and the conformationally restricted 4,5,6,7-tetrahydro-1H-benzimidazole ring in &quot;equatorial-twist&quot; conformation. In our pharmacophore model for the 5-HT3 receptor antagonist, a basic center exists at the left side of the aromatic-carbonyl plane when viewing from the aromatic part with the carbonyl oxygen atom upwards, whereas the &quot;handedness&quot; is ambiguous in the previously proposed model.

The dynamical behaviour of the brain is currently being viewed from the perspective of nonlinear dynamics. There are several reports of low dimensional chaotic activity in various states of human behaviour. The time evolution of chaotic systems exhibit many transitional states and brain is known to undergo a number of transitions in sleep. It evolves from random looking states to almost periodic states with an increase in the depth of sleep. There occurs intermittent random-like behaviour in REM (rapid eye movement) sleep. In this paper, we examine the transitional processes of brain activity in sleep from the patterns of attractor dimension (D2) and its corresponding dominant Lyapunov exponent (lambda 1) curves of EEG signals. Results indicate the occurrence of different degrees of chaoticity in the transitional states that may be related to various sleep stages. The chaotic parameter curves yield an objective measure of the neurodynamics of sleep comparable to an hypnogram. The parallelism of D2 and lambda 1 curves implies the validity of Kaplan-Yorke conjecture for EEG. It is suggested that the nonlinear dynamical measures of EEG may yield information about the nature of underlying neural processes of brain in sleep.
Recent work shows that the non-myelinating 'terminal' Schwann cells that cap neuromuscular junctions play an important role in synaptic maintenance and repair.
Cells in the premotor cortex of the macaque monkey respond to the sight of specific hand actions made by either the animal itself or the experimenter. What could be the function of such cells?
Synaptic differentiation is triggered by signals from the ingrowing axon and is shaped by information exchange between the presynaptic and postsynaptic cells. The central role of agrin in this process, and the identity of the signaling component of its receptor, have now been established.
Reported findings regarding sleep and sleep disorders in the elderly often conflict. Differences in results across studies may arise from selection of subjects, definitions and recording conditions. Our purpose was to test a method to study elderly, both healthy and demented, under the most natural conditions, without disturbing a fragile sleep. Using clinical parameters and a non-disturbing recording method, we evaluated sleep quality in patients with carefully diagnosed dementia and compared the results to a group of healthy subjects between 50 and 70 years of age. Healthy subjects awoke less and had more quiet sleep than patients, while in patients a tendency for delayed sleep latency and more active sleep was observed. Consistent with previous investigations, sleep-related respiratory disorders (SRRD) were more common in patients than in the matched control group, and periodic breathing appeared only among patients. SRRD, of both obstructive and central types, were only mild, with periodic breathing dominating only among patients. Most of the desaturations were less than 10%. We did not observe respiration of the Cheyne-Stokes type. Patients had more sleep-related movement disorders (SRMD), particularly with increase of twitches and long movements. Periodic movements were not significantly increased among the patients. The method, and the data obtained may be useful for practitioners dealing with sleep disorders in geriatric populations. In the elderly, interactivity between sleep, SRRD and SRMD may be bidirectional and as elderly and demented subjects might have a distorted homeostatic sleep response, SRRD and SRMD, even in a mild form, may cause sleep disruption and worsen dementia.
Colony stimulating factor-1 (CSF-1) was initially identified as a growth factor for mononuclear phagocytes. This study examines the role of CSF-1 in the development of the central nervous system (CNS). CSF-1 treatment of neurons cultured from embryonic brain promoted survival and process outgrowth in a dose-dependent manner. By contrast, CSF-1 treatment of neurons cultured from the osteopetrotic (op/op) mouse, a null mutant for CSF-1, promoted significantly less process outgrowth, suggesting that there are neural abnormalities in op/op animals. Nuclease protection assays were used to determine whether CSF-1 and its receptor are expressed at times appropriate to regulate neural development. Both CSF-1 and its receptor are expressed in developing mouse brain, with a unique pattern of CSF-1 mRNA splice variant expression encoding secreted, and not membrane-bound, growth factor. To determine whether brain function is altered by null mutation of CSF-1, op/op mice were examined using electrophysiologic assays. Brainstem auditory and visual evoked potentials were both abnormal in op/op mice. Further, intracortical recordings revealed aberrant neuronal function within visual cortex and alterations in the cortical circuitry that balances excitation and inhibition. Daily CSF-1 injection of postnatal op/op mice largely rescued the abnormal neural phenotype, confirming that the absence of CSF-1 during development is responsible for the abnormalities. The effects of CSF-1 on cultured embryonic neural cells, the developmentally appropriate expression of CSF-1 and its receptor, and the neurological abnormalities in op/op mice suggest a role for CSF-1 in brain development.
Moderate impairment of learning and memory has been recognized as a complication of diabetes. The present study examined behavioral and electrophysiological measures of cerebral function in streptozotocin (STZ)-induced diabetic rats. Behavioral testing consisted of a spatial learning task in a water maze. Electrophysiological testing consisted of in vitro assessment of hippocampal long-term potentiation (LTP), an activity-dependent form of synaptic plasticity, which is believed to be related to the cellular mechanisms of learning and memory. Two experiments were performed: the first with severely hyperglycemic rats and the second with moderately hyperglycemic rats. Rats were tested in the water maze 11 weeks after induction of diabetes. Next, LTP was measured in vitro in trained animals. Both spatial learning and LTP expression in the CA1 field of the hippocampus were impaired in severely hyperglycemic rats as compared with nondiabetic controls. In contrast, spatial learning and hippocampal LTP were unaffected in moderately hyperglycemic rats. The association of alterations in hippocampal LTP with specific learning impairments has previously been reported in conditions other than diabetes. Our findings suggest that changes in LTP-like forms of synaptic plasticity in the hippocampus, and possibly in other cerebral structures, are involved in learning deficits in STZ-induced diabetes. The beneficial effect of moderate glycemic control on both place learning and hippocampal LTP supports the significance of the relation between these two parameters and indicates that the development of the observed deficits may be related to the level of glycemic control.

Current treatments for Parkinson's disease (PD) rely on dopamine-replacing strategies, and centre around dopamine precursors (e.g. levodopa) or directly acting dopamine agonists. With long-term therapy these agents lose much of their clinical utility due to the appearance of adverse effects such as dyskinesias and/or a wearing off of efficacy. Although dyskinesias in Huntington's disease, hemiballism and experimental animals are thought to be associated with reductions in amino acid transmission within the lateral and medial segments of the globus pallidus, the neural mechanisms underlying treatment-related dyskinesias in PD are poorly understood. Recent evidence suggests that, within these regions of the brain, the opioid peptides enkephalin and dynorphin, acting at delta and kappa opioid receptors, respectively, can reduce the release of amino acid transmitters. Furthermore, the synthesis of these peptides appears to be enhanced in neurons projecting to the pallidal complex in animal models of PD following repeated treatment with dopamine-replacing agents that also cause dyskinetic adverse effects (e.g. levodopa and apomorphine). In contrast, dopamine receptor agonists such as bromocriptine and lisuride do not cause dyskinetic adverse effects following long-term treatment, and do not elevate peptide synthesis when given de novo. These data, together with recent data on the behavioural effects of opioid antagonists in a rodent model of levodopa-induced dyskinesia in PD, suggest the possibility that antagonists of opioid receptors may prove useful as adjuncts to levodopa. By limiting the severity of dyskinetic adverse effects, these drugs may help extend the time for which the antiparkinsonian effects of such compounds can be usefully exploited.
To assess the effects of normal aging and senile dementia of the Alzheimer's type (SDAT) on semantic analysis of words, we examined the N400 component of the event-related potential (ERP) elicited during the processing of highly constrained (opposites) and less constrained materials (category-category exemplars) in 12 young control subjects, 12 elderly control subjects and 12 patients with SDAT. We employed a priming paradigm in which a context phrase was spoken and a target word (congruent or incongruent) was presented visually. The N400 effect was reduced in amplitude and delayed in the elderly control group relative to that of the younger subjects, and was further attenuated in amplitude, delayed in latency and somewhat flatter in its distribution across the scalp in the SDAT patients. These findings are consistent with less efficient processing and integration of lexical items with semantic context in normal aging, which is further exacerbated by SDAT. Differences in the N400 range associated with the opposite and category conditions were observed only in the young subjects, suggesting less use of controlled attentional resources or perhaps weaker associative links with age.
We prospectively studied 100 consecutive patients (200 hands) sent to our Neurophysiopathology Service for a suspected Carpal Tunnel Syndrome (C.T.S.). We performed 6 different motor and sensitive electrodiagnostic tests on both hands of each patients and on 25 healthy subjects. We calculated the sensibility and the specificity of each test by comparing each parameter with all the other ones, and then, again, using the clinical evaluation as a &quot;gold standard&quot;. The routinely performed tests proved to have a high sensibility in detecting C.T.S., nevertheless, sometimes they do not give a definite response. In these cases we suggest to carry out the neurophysiological examination by performing some of the newly proposed tests. We end our study by drawing a &quot;flow-chart&quot;, which considers reliability, sensibility, difficulty in performing and/or evaluating, and discomfort for patients, of each test; by this we would give a guide and a practical aid in determining the electrophysiological path for C.T.S. diagnosis.
Recent studies have suggested a role for glucose availability in the central control of reproductive function. Various experimental paradigms have shown that a large pharmacological reduction in circulating or cellular glucose levels can suppress LH secretion, ovulation, and reproductive behavior. In contrast, states of undernutrition, which are also associated with a suppression of reproductive function, are accompanied by very mild changes in circulating glucose levels. In monkeys, 1 day of fasting leads to a significant suppression of LH secretion before any significant change in blood glucose levels, and by 2 days of fasting, circulating glucose levels only decrease by about 20%. Refeeding a normal meal after 2 days of fasting results in a restoration of euglycemia and a rapid stimulation of LH secretion. To test the hypothesis that physiological changes in glucose levels occurring during brief periods of fasting and refeeding can modulate LH secretion, we provided monkeys that had been fasted for 2 days with meals that differed in the ability to raise blood glucose levels. Meals consisting of mixed nutrients, carbohydrate only, or protein and fat were provided to monkeys through indwelling gastric cannulas. Mixed nutrient infusions and carbohydrate infusions caused a rise in blood glucose as well as a robust stimulation of LH secretion. However, protein and fat meals also stimulated LH secretion, even though no rise in blood glucose concentrations occurred. Thus, the restoration of pulsatile LH secretion when fasted animals are refed is not dependent on an elevation in circulating glucose levels. These results do not support the hypothesis that physiological changes in circulating glucose levels play a necessary role in mediating the changes in LH secretion that occur with fasting and refeeding. Alternatively, these results support the hypothesis that the availability of metabolizable fuels, regardless of their nature, provides a critical cue that regulates the central drive to the reproductive axis under physiological conditions of fasting and feeding.
There is a plethora of studies documenting the association between psychosocial disadvantage and epilepsy but a paucity of studies explaining the precise nature of that relationship. Previous studies have been hampered by methodological problems including small sample size and selection bias. This study examined the aetiology of psychopathology in epilepsy in a cross-sectional community study. A significant proportion of patients were anxious and depressed and many reported side effects of their medication. Stepwise multiple regression techniques were employed to examine the relationship between clinical, demographic and psychosocial variables. Results indicated that psychosocial variables were the best predictors of each other but when these were taken into account, patient perceived seizure severity was an important predictor variable in understanding the relationship between epilepsy and psychosocial functioning.
The 'two-hit' hypothesis for the development of the childhood eye cancer, retinoblastoma (Rb), predicts that bilaterally affected individuals will carry germline mutations. The second suggestion is that patients with early presentation of unilateral tumours also carry predisposing mutations. We have used SSCP analysis to study the 27 individual exons of the RB1 gene in constitutional DNA from 3 patients whose tumours were treated under the age of 12 months. Bandshifts on SSCP gels were detected in 2 of these patients which, on sequencing, were shown to be a C--&gt;T transition converting a CGAarg to a TGAstop codon in exon 17 and an 8 bp deletion in exon 20 resulting in a downstream stop codon. The mutations seen in these patients are reminiscent of those seen in patients with hereditary Rb and confirms that at least some early onset unilateral cases carry constitutional mutations, which has important implications for genetic screening and counselling of these individuals.
The functional interaction of thiocyanate (SCN-) ions with recombinant non-N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors was examined by studying alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionic acid (AMPA)- and kainic acid (KA)-activated currents in Xenopus laevis oocytes. Recombinant receptors were expressed after microinjection of oocytes with combinations of cDNAs or cRNAs encoding for GluR1, GluR2, GluR2(R586Q), GluR3 or GluR6 subunits. When the GluR2 subunit was expressed with GluR1, SCN- (2 mM) inhibited the responses to 50 microM AMPA, whereas responses to 100 microM KA were slightly increased and responses to 200 microM L-glutamate were unaffected. Equilibrium concentration-response curves for AMPA were antagonized in a non-competitive manner by SCN- with a reduction in the EC50. The inhibitory effects of SCN- were unaffected by prior reduction of receptor desensitization with either 10 microM Concanavalin-A or 0.5 mM diazoxide. AMPA-activated currents recorded from homomeric GluR1 or Glur3 receptors were not affected by SCN-, and GluR6 homomeric receptors, which are sensitive to KA but not to AMPA, were also unaffected. In contrast, AMPA activation of homomeric GluR2(R586Q) subunit receptors, or combinations of GluR1 or GluR3 + GluR2(R586Q) subunits, were markedly inhibited by SCN-. In addition, the inhibitory effect of AMPA on KA-activated responses on these heteromeric receptors, was enhanced by SCN-. These results indicate that SCN- exert an inhibitory effect on 'AMPA receptors' but only when the recombinant non-NMDA receptor is a GluR2 homomer, or when GluR2 subunits are present as part of a heteromeric combination. Moreover, this inhibitory effect was unaffected by the 'Q/R' site in the presumed second transmembrane domain, since currents mediated by the GluR2(R586Q) subunit were also susceptible to inhibition by SCN-. Thus the inhibition was not related to the rectification properties or calcium permeability of the non-NMDA receptors. It is suggested that the GluR2 subunit may have a specific binding site for anions which could modulate the function of non-NMDA receptors and that SCN- may be a useful probe for the detection of these subunits in native neurons.
We wanted to examine whether there are cortical fields active in short-term retention of sensory information, independent of the sensory modality. To control for selective attention, response selection and motor output, the cortical activity during short-term memory (STM) tasks was compared with that during detection (DT) tasks. Using positron emission tomography and [15O]-butanol as a tracer, we measured the regional cerebral blood flow in ten subjects during three STM tasks in which the subjects had to keep in mind: (i) the pitch of tones; (ii) frequencies of a vibrating stylus; and (iii) luminance levels of a monochrome light. Another group of ten subjects undertook three tasks in which subjects detected changes in similar stimuli. Six cortical fields were significantly more activated during STM than during DT. These fields were activated irrespective of sensory modality, and were located in the left inferior frontal gyrus, right superior frontal gyrus, right inferior parietal cortex, anterior cingulate, left frontal operculum and right ventromedial prefrontal cortex. Since the DT tasks and the STM tasks differed only with respect to the STM component, we conclude that the neuronal activity specifically related to retention of the stimuli during the delays was located in these six multi-modal cortical areas. Since no differences were observed in the sensory-specific association cortices, the results indicate further that the activity in the sensory-specific association cortices due to selective attention is not different from the activity underlying short-term retention of sensory information.
Therapeutic ototoxic drugs are one of the major causes of damage in the peripheral auditory system, leading to hearing loss. In this study, we have examined the toxic actions of three classes of ototoxins (sodium salicylate, gentamicin and cisplatin) in organotypic cultures of postnatal cochlear explants. In these cultures, afferent innervation of hair cells by primary auditory neurons remained intact. Double labelling with a monoclonal antibody against neurofilament protein and a phalloidin-fluorescein isothiocyanate conjugate revealed that the three types of drugs induced differential damage to auditory neurons and hair cells in the cochlea. While gentamicin preferentially caused hair cell death, sodium salicylate specifically induced degeneration of auditory neurons. In contrast, cisplatin resulted in destruction of both auditory neurons and hair cells. Neuronal degeneration was largely prevented by the addition of neurotrophin-4/5, brain-derived neurotrophic factor and neurotrophin-3 to the culture media together with the ototoxins, while nerve growth factor and other growth factors had no effect. In contrast, the hair cell loss caused by cisplatin or gentamicin was not attenuated by the presence of neurotrophins. These results suggest that ototoxic mechanisms of salicylates, aminoglycosides and chemotherapeutic agents are different. Auditory neuronal loss induced by ototoxins may be prevented by specific neurotrophins.
New strategies have recently been developed where infusion of neurotrophic factors into the brain can rescue different populations of neurons. Infusion of nerve growth factor (NGF) has been used in combination with transplants of chromaffin tissue to the striatum in the rat model of Parkinson's disease as well as to patients suffering from Alzheimer's disease. In this study we have evaluated the distribution of recombinant human NGF (rhNGF) in different brain areas and evaluated morphological and electrophysiological effects after continuous infusion for 2 weeks of rhNGF (500 micrograms/ml) into the striatum of normal rats. One week after termination of rhNGF infusion, NGF levels in the infused striata were 10-fold increased while in contralateral striata normal levels were found. Extracellular recordings from striatal neurons revealed a significantly decreased spontaneous firing rate (0.76 +/- 0.07 Hz) in rats infused with rhNGF compared to vehicle-infused control animals (1.36 +/- 0.16 Hz). Local application of rhNGF during recordings showed no direct inhibitory effect of NGF on neuronal discharge rate. Immunohistochemistry, using antibodies against acetyl cholinesterase (AChE) and glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP), revealed a 38.7 +/- 7.0% increase in optical density of AChE immunoreactivity close to the NGF source and an increase in GFAP-positive profiles that was restricted close to the implanted dialysis fibre. In situ hybridization showed an increase in mRNAs for choline acetyltransferase, trkA, p75 and muscarinic m2 receptor in the large neurons of rhNGF-infused striatum. Messenger RNAs for m1 and m4 receptors in striatal neurons were not changed. Thus, chronic infusion of rhNGF into the striatum caused a cholinergic hyperinnervation and reduced spontaneous activity of striatal neurons.

Antispastic effects of the noradrenaline and dopamine precursor l-3,4-dihydroxyphelanine (L-dopa) were investigated in 11 subjects in which exaggerated stretch reflexes developed after spinal cord injuries. The effects were evaluated from changes in the electromyographic (EMG) response of the quadriceps muscle during tendon jerks evoked by standardized taps over the patellar tendon, in clonus and in resistance to passive movements of the limb. After administration of L-dopa, EMG responses occurring 30-150 ms after the tendon tap decreased to about 50% of control, and clinical tests revealed a marked decrease in the resistance to muscle stretches and in the degree of clonus. The effects were maximal within about 1 h. The depressive actions of L-dopa are interpreted as being exerted primarily at the spinal level, since they were evoked in paraplegics and tetraplegics. The results support the previous hypothesis that group II muscle afferents contribute to.the exaggerated stretch reflex in spastic patients because L-dopa depresses transmission from group II but not from group I muscle afferents. They also indicate the possibility of using L-dopa in the treatment of spastic patients.
The preceding study of the influence of various stimulus parameters on a single subject's pattern-on-set visual evoked potentials (VEPs) identified several constituent potentials with distinctive stimulus-related (and topographic) response properties. This paper describes related experiments in which an appropriate selection of the stimuli used in the original study, and some additional images of faces and other figures, were used to analyse and compare the composition of the VEPs recorded from 49 subjects. The results showed: (1) that the previously discovered response components were again easily identified: the early negative and late negative potentials, for example, were distinguishable in most subjects, not only by their different latencies and surface distributions, but also by the former's preferential, or more often selective, evocation by patterns of discrete elements compared with gratings, and the latter's selective enhancement by patterns containing monocular depth cues; (2) that there was considerable inter-individual variation in the relative sizes (as well as changes in latencies) of the basic components; (3) all the components were not always discernible in each individual's VEPs, and none was recorded for all 49 subjects; and (4) that because of these component amplitude variations, which were the main cause of variable overall response waveforms, there was no simple relationship between the VEP peaks and underlying components. Some important methodological implications of these findings are discussed.
This paper describes the first of two complementary studies designed to identify and to investigate the properties and likely functional significance of independently generated components of scalp-recorded responses evoked by stationary patterns. These experiments compared the influence of various stimulus parameters, including site of stimulation, pattern form, nature of background field and several binocular and monocular depth cues on a single subject's visual evoked potentials. The results revealed the presence, inter alia, of two topographically distinct components with the following properties. The earlier component (C2), whose polarity depends on the stimulus location in the visual field, is: contour-specific; best evoked by discrete pattern elements, but not gratings, in the central few degrees of the visual field; insensitive to any depth cues. By contrast, the later (consistently) negative potential (LNP) is not dependent on the form of the stimulus and is larger for paracentrally (beyond 1.5 degrees) than centrally located stimuli. It is also selectively enhanced by both monocular and binocular depth-cue stimuli, including the simulated forward movement of a pattern relative to a steady textured background; a stimulus which evokes no C2. The respective response properties of these scalp potentials suggest that there is parallel processing of depth- and contour-related features of stationary stimuli in anatomically separate regions of the human visual cortex.
Horizontal movements of both eyes were recorded simultaneously using scleral search coils in 2 rhesus monkeys before and after the COSMOS 2229 space-flight of 1992-1993. Another 9 monkeys were tested at comparable time intervals and served as controls. Ocular vergence, defined as the difference in horizontal position between the left and right eyes, was measured during off-vertical yaw axis rotation (OVAR) in darkness. Vergence was modulated sinusoidally as a function of head position with regard to gravity during OVAR. The amplitude of peak-to-peak modulation increased with increments in tilt of the angle of the rotational axis (OVAR tilt angle) that ranged from 15 degrees to 90 degrees. Of the 11 monkeys tested, 1 had no measurable modulation in vergence. In the other 10, the mean amplitude of the peak to peak modulation was 5.5 degrees +/- 1.3 degrees at 90 degrees tilt. Each of these monkeys had maximal vergence when its nose was pointed close to upward (gravity back; mean phase: -0.9 degree +/- 26 degrees). After space flight, the modulation in vergence was reduced by over 50% for the two flight monkeys, but the phase of vergence modulation was not altered. The reduction in vergence modulation was sustained for the 11-day postflight testing period. We conclude that changes in vergence are induced in monkeys by the sinusoidal component of gravity acting along the naso-occipital axis during yaw axis OVAR, and that the modulation of the vergence reflex is significantly less sensitive to linear acceleration after space flight.
Rotational head motion in vertebrates is detected by the semicircular canal system, whose innervating primary afferent fibers carry information about movement in specific head planes. The semicircular canals have been qualitatively examined over a number of years, and the canal planes have been quantitatively characterized in several animal species. The present study first determined the geometric relationship between individual semicircular canals and between the canals and the stereotactic head planes in pigeons. Stereotactic measurements of multiple points along the circumference of the bony canals were taken, and the measured points fitted with a three-dimensional planar surface. Direction normals to the plane's surface were calculated and used to define angles between semicircular canal pairs. Because of the unusual shape of the anterior semicircular canals in pigeons, two planes, a major and a minor, were fitted to the canal's course. Calculated angle values for all canals indicated that the horizontal and posterior semicircular canals are nearly orthogonal, but the anterior canals have substantial deviations from orthogonality with other canal planes. Next, the responses of the afferent fibers that innervate each of the semicircular canals to 0.5 Hz sinusoidal rotation about an earth-vertical axis were obtained. The head orientation relative to the rotation axis was systematically varied so that directions of maximum sensitivity for each canal afferent could be determined. These sensitivity vectors were then compared with the canal plane direction normals. The afferents that innervated specific semicircular canals formed homogeneous clusters of sensitivity vectors in different head planes. The horizontal and posterior afferents had average sensitivity vectors that were largely co-incident with the innervated canal plane direction normals. Anterior canal afferents, however, appeared to synthesize contributions from the major and minor plane components of the bony canal structure to produce a resultant sensitivity vector that was positioned between the canal planes. Calculated angles between the average canal afferent sensitivity vectors revealed that direction orthogonality is preserved at the afferent signal level, even though deviations from canal plane orthogonality exist.
Intraparenchymal injections of the neurotoxin 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA) into the medial forebrain bundle in rats destroys the dopaminergic neurons in the pars compacta of the substantia nigra. In other transmitter systems it has been found that axotomy or neurotoxin exposure produces an initial loss of neurotransmitter phenotype, with cell death occurring over a much slower time course. To determine whether this also occurs in dopamine neurons after 6-OHDA, two approaches were utilized. First, the effect of injections of 6-OHDA into the medial forebrain bundle on nigral dopaminergic neurons was studied using combined fluorogold and immunocytochemical labeling. Four weeks after the 6-OHDA injection, there was an 85% reduction in the number of tyrosine hydroxylase (TH)-immunoreactive cells on the lesioned side. In contrast, there was only a 50% reduction in the number of fluorogold-labeled cells on the lesioned side. Second, the time course of the rescue of dopaminergic neurons after 6-OHDA by glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF) was determined using TH immunocytochemistry. Greater numbers of dopamine neurons were rescued 9 weeks after GDNF, compared with counts made 5 weeks after GDNF. Taken together, these results suggest loss of dopaminergic phenotype is greater than cell loss following 6-OHDA injections, and that GDNF restores the phenotype of affected cells.
It is generally assumed that central nervous system injury sustained during development produces less severe behavioral deficits than damage in the adult, due to increased plasticity of the immature brain. However, developmental plasticity may also exacerbate deficits, presumably through formation of anomalous connections. Previous studies showed that after unilateral neonatal, but not adult, electrolytic hippocampal lesion spatial memory is severely impaired. To determine whether the memory deficit is correlated with anatomical changes in a major hippocampal afferent system, the septal input, the anterograde tracer Phaeseolus vulgaris leucoagglutinin was injected into the medial septum 2 months after unilateral neonatal hippocampal lesion. The density of septal fiber projections into the entorhinal cortex (EC) was found to be increased. Choline-acetyltransferase activity increased significantly in the EC 2 months postlesion, suggesting that septal cholinergic fibers are sprouting. Finally, nerve growth factor (NGF), which can mediate sprouting, was measured in the EC, NGF protein increased transiently 7 to 12 days postlesion in the ipsilateral EC, suggesting that increased trophic support is associated with growth of septal afferents into the EC. Thus, neonatal hippocampal lesion causes a reorganization of axonal connections associated with elevated NGF in the target region of the increased septal input. Moreover, since previous studies showed that the neonatal lesion is accompanied by a spatial memory deficit, this plasticity may compromise function of the remaining circuitry.
Hemorrhagic transformation (HT) is a poorly understood yet frequent complication of stroke. A transient increase in blood pressure (BP) occurs immediately after experimental embolization in rabbits and we evaluated the relationship between this acute hypertensive response and subsequent hemorrhagic transformation, as well as the attenuation of this hypertensive response with an anesthetic dose of halothane. We also examined embolism-induced HT during infusion of the thrombolytic agents tissue plasminogen activator and streptokinase. A blood clot embolus was injected into the internal carotid artery and flushed into the middle cerebral artery. In the first experiment, BP was monitored in anesthetized or unanesthetized rabbits for 20 min prior to and up to 1 h after embolization. In the second experiment, animals were embolized half-way through an infusion of tPA (3.0 mg/kg; 20% administered as an iv bolus, with the remainder infused over 30 min) or streptokinase (30,000 U/kg iv infused over 30 min). In unanesthetized animals, the HT score (number of brain sections displaying visible HT) was significantly correlated with the peak mean arterial pressure recorded at embolization (r = 0.60, n = 24, P &lt; 0.01). No relationship was observed between BP and HT score in animals anesthetized with halothane. Although HT incidence and extent were significantly related to elevated BP in the unanesthetized animals, halothane administration actually increased HT incidence. Embolization during thrombolytic infusion did not increase the occurrence or severity of HT. These data suggest that acute hypertension, but not ongoing thrombolysis, is a significant risk factor for HT following cerebral embolization.
Herpes viruses have received a great deal of attention due to their widespread and ubiquitous prevalence in the human population and to the diverse range of diseases caused as a result of an infection. During the last 20-25 years, many research laboratories have investigated the pathogenesis and molecular biology of these viruses; particularly herpes simplex virus (HSV). As a result of this research, HSV has begun to get the attention of neuroscientists. In fact, in the last few years there has been an explosion of research involving the use of HSV and related viruses as tools or model systems for different areas of neuroscience research. This brief review will describe several of these areas including demyelinating diseases, neuronal tracings, and genetic therapy.
A panel of somatic cell hybrids has been used to localize 192 novel eSTS markers to seven individual subregions of human chromosome 1. The positions of the breakpoints in each of these hybrids have been determined relative to the genetic linkage map of chromosome 1, and so the approximate locations of the genes from which the eSTS markers have been derived can be determined. Although the distribution of the eSTS markers is relatively random, 23% were assigned to the 1p34-p36 region. The hybrid mapping panel does not subdivide the 1q24-q44 region, which contains 36% of the eSTS markers. This analysis, therefore, provides a series of genic markers in which to search for candidates for a variety of human genetic disorders and recessive oncogenes mapped to the same relative position on the chromosome.
The enzyme N-acetylglucosamine-1-phosphodiester alpha-N-acetylglucosaminidase (EC 3.1.4.45; uncovering enzyme) catalyzed the removal of N-acetylglucosamine from the N-acetylglucosamine-alpha-phospho-mannose portion of selected lysosomal enzyme oligosaccharide chains, thereby forming the mannose 6-phosphate signal which is responsible for the targeting of these lysosomal enzymes for transport into lysosomes. The uncovering enzyme has been purified approximately 7000-fold to electrophoretic homogeneity from Epstein-Barr virus-transformed human lymphoblast cells. The purification sequence involves solubilizing this membrane-bound enzyme with Tergitol NP-10, affinity chromatography on Lentil lectin-Sepharose 4B, ion-exchange chromatography on DEAE-Sephacel, chromatography on zinc(II)-IDA-Sepharose 6B, and preparative SDS-PAGE electrophoresis. The purified enzyme migrated as a single band of 114 kDa which was coincident with enzyme activity on analytical SDS-PAGE electrophoresis. Characterization studies of the purified enzyme demonstrated that catalytic activity was maximal at pH 6.95 and that the enzyme retained full activity following incubation for 10 min at 60 degrees C. No requirement was found for a divalent cation, but Zn2+, Hg2+, and Cu2+ were found to reduce the enzyme's activity by 30-40%. The highest catalytic efficiency was observed with N-acetylglucosamine-phospho-methylmannoside as a substrate while uridine diphosphate-N-acetylglucosamine, N-acetylglucosamine-phosphomannose-uteroferrin, and N-acetylglucosamine-phosphate were also cleaved by the enzyme with decreasing efficiency. Acetamino-deoxycastanospermine was a potent inhibitor of the human enzyme with a Ki of 0.35 microM, while N-acetylglucosamine phosphate (Ki 1.58 mM) and N-acetylglucosamine (Ki 5.1 mM) inhibited the enzyme to a lesser degree.

We examined responses to pure tones and exponentially frequency-modulated (FM) stimuli in the inferior colliculus of ketamine anesthetized rats. All units responded to both pure-tone and FM stimulation: units responding selectively to FM stimuli were not found. The comparison between responses to many different FM sweeps revealed that activity was elicited when the instantaneous frequency of a FM sweep entered the unit's pure-tone tuning curve. Units were tuned to the rate of frequency modulation. Most modulation rate transfer functions had bandpass characteristics. Best modulation rates covered a range from 4.8 to 1904 octaves/s with more than 90% between 10 and 400 octaves/s. In contrast to previous studies, modulation direction was not coded in unit responses and only few units demonstrated a weak change in response strength when sweep direction was altered. This is at least partly attributable to the FM stimulus design which, in the present study, was adapted to the logarithmic frequency representation in the rat auditory system and carefully matched to the units' pure-tone responses area. In spite of the close relationship between pure tone and FM response behavior, modulation rate tuning cannot be completely explained on the basis of the units' pure-tone responses.
Reproduction in vertebrates is regulated by internal signals such as hormone levels and by external signals such as social interactions. In an African cichlid fish, Haplochromis burtoni, the effect of social interactions is evident in the hypothalamo-pituitary-gonadal (HPG) axis of males. Territorial males, characterized by aggressive and reproductive activity, have significantly larger hypothalamic gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH)-containing neurons and larger testes than nonterritorial males. Furthermore, a switch in the social status of an adult male causes a corresponding change in GnRH neuron size and testis size. Here we show that the GnRH-containing neurons in the hypothalamus of adult territorial males are also influenced by gonadal hormones. Castration of territorial males caused GnRH neurons to increase in size. This neuronal hypertrophy in castrated animals was prevented either by testosterone (T) or 11-ketotestosterone (KT) treatment. Estradiol (E2) treatment did not reduce GnRH cell size in castrated animals. These results suggest that androgens reduce the size of GnRH cells through negative feedback. Since E2 had no effect, androgen influence on GnRH cell size appears to be independent of aromatization. These data are consistent with the hypothesis that the setpoint for hypothalamic GnRH cell size is determined by social cues and that this setpoint is maintained by negative feedback from gonadal androgens.
Methods are described for estimating the inertia, viscosity, and stiffness of the lower leg around the knee and of the whole leg around the hip that are applicable even to persons with considerable spasticity. These involve: 1) a &quot;pull&quot; test in which the limb is slowly moved throughout its range of motion while measuring angles (with an electrogoniometer) and torques (with a hand-held dynamometer) to determine passive stiffness and 2) a &quot;pendulum&quot; test in which the limb is moved against gravity and then dropped, while again measuring angles and torques. By limiting the extent of the movement and choosing a direction (flexion or extension) that minimizes reflex responses, the mechanical parameters can be determined accurately and efficiently using computer programs. In the sample of subjects studied (nine with disability related to spinal cord injury, head injury, or stroke, and nine with no neurological disability), the inertia of the lower leg was significantly reduced in the subjects with disability (p &lt; 0.05) as a result of atrophy, but the stiffness and viscosity were within normal limits. The values of inertia were also compared with anthropometric data in the literature. The identification of these passive parameters is particularly important in designing systems for functional electrical stimulation of paralyzed muscles, but the methods may be widely applicable in rehabilitation medicine.
2, 4-Dichloro phenoxy acetic acid (2, 4-D) was given at 100 mg/kg body weight per day by oral intubation from postnatal days 2 to 25 to assess its effect on the levels of norepinephrine (NE), dopamine (DA) and 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT) in olfactory bulb (OB), hippocampus (HI), visual cortex (VC), cerebellum (CB) and brainstem (BS). NE levels were increased in OB, HI, VC and BS at 10 days of age. However, by 25 days, NE levels were decreased in OB, HI and VC. DA levels were also increased in OB, HI, VC and CB at 10 days of age and again decreased by 25 days in OB, HI and VC. 5-HT levels were increased in HI, CB and BS at 10 days and in VC and CB at 25 days of age. Reduced acetylcholinesterase (AChE) activity in OB and HI and monoamines in different brain regions at 25 days of age might be responsible for the observed deficits in both acquisition and rate of pedal press response when animals were exposed chronically to 2, 4-D during postnatal brain development.
Over a 200 day period, chronic (limbic) epileptic rats were exposed intermittently, for either one or three nights (00 to 08 hr), once very approximately 10 days to experimental magnetic fields whose morphology (incremental changes in intensity over time) simulated geomagnetic activity. One of two intensities and two ripple frequencies (7 Hz, 45 Hz) was employed. The display of over seizures following synchronized food presentation significantly increased by a factor 3.1 relative to controls when the fields had been activated for one or two but not three successive nights. The combined effects of the experimental field and ambient geomagnetic activity (&gt; 40 nT) explained approximately 12 to 15% of the variance in the daily incidence of seizures. Implications for the transient disinhibition of electrical lability within the limbic system following suppression of nocturnal melatonin are discussed.
Extracellular single unit recordings were made from spinal dorsal horn wide dynamic range neurons in spinal transected, urethane-anesthetized rats. The unit discharges elicited by noxious electrical stimulation of the hind paw were suppressed by electroacupuncture (15 Hz, 0.3 ms, 3 mA, 30 min) placed at the hind leg points (S-36 and SP-6). Local spinal superfusion with naloxone (20 micrograms/15 microliters) or CCK-8 (10 ng/15 microliters) attenuated, whereas CCK-B receptor antagonist L365,260 (2.5 micrograms/15 microliters) enhanced the electroacupuncture effect. These findings provide further evidence for the notion that CCK-8, in the spinal cord, functions as an antiopioid substrate that antagonizes opioid- or electroacupuncture-induced analgesia.
Previously we have described the distribution of the Rdl GABA receptor subunit in the Drosophila CNS. Knowing that Rdl can coassemble with LCCH3 (a Drosophila GABA receptor-like subunit showing sequence similarity to vertebrate beta subunit GABAA receptors) in baculovirus infected insect cells, we compared the localization of these two receptor subunits in order to identify any potential overlap in their spatial or temporal distribution. The two subunits show very different patterns of localization. Early in development LCCH3 is found in the majority of developing neuroblasts and later is localized to the cell bodies of the embryonic nerve cord and brain, and the neuronal cell bodies surrounding the adult brain. In contrast, Rdl receptor subunits appear confined to the neuropil in all developmental stages. These results have two important implications. Firstly, they suggest that although these two subunits can coassemble in heterologous expression systems, they may not be found in the same tissues in the nervous system. Secondly, production of LCCH3 before neuronal differentiation leads us to speculate on the role of that LCCH3 containing receptors in the developing nervous system.
Measurements of external ear transfer functions in the echolocating bat Eptesicus fuscus have revealed a prominent spectral notch that decreases in center frequency (50 to 30-35 kHz) as elevation decreases [Wotton et al., J. Acoust. Soc. Am. 98, 1423-1445 (1995)]. To examine the influence of this notch, four Eptesicus were trained to discriminate between two sets of electronically generated artificial echoes. The negative (unrewarded) stimulus contained a test spectral notch at a specific frequency that varied from 30 to 50 kHz, while the positive (rewarded) stimulus contained no test notch. The vertical position of the loudspeakers delivering these simulated echoes was changed daily. When echoes were returned from an elevation at which the external ear introduced a spectral notch at the same frequency as the test notch, then the discrimination should have been difficult. The bats' performance conformed to this prediction: All bats discriminated the presence of a 35-kHz notch at all elevations except -10 degrees. As the frequency of the synthesized notch increased, the elevation at which bats could not perform the discrimination also increased. The movement of the bat's &quot;blind spot&quot; for the test notch of different frequencies followed the movement of the external ear notch at different elevations.
The present study was undertaken to further characterize the nucleus reticularis gigantocellularis (NRGC) of the medulla oblongata in the central processing of nociceptive and cardiovascular signals, and its modulation by met-enkephalin. In Sprague-Dawley rats anesthetized with pentobarbital sodium, we found that all 125 spontaneously active NRGC neurons that responded to noxious stimuli (tail clamp) also exhibited arterial pressure-relatedness. Forty neurons additionally manifested cardiac periodicity that persisted even during nociceptive responses. While maintaining their cardiovascular responsive characteristics, the nociception-related NRGC neuronal activity was blocked, naloxone-reversibly (0.5 mg/kg, i.v.), by morphine (5 mg/kg, i.v.). Microiontophoretically applied met-enkephalin suppressed the responsiveness of NRGC neurons to individually delivered tail clamp or transient hypertension induced by phenylephrine (5 &amp;mgr;g/kg, i.v.). Interestingly, in NRGC neurons that manifested both nociception and arterial pressure relatedness, the preferential reduction in the response to noxious stimuli upon simultaneous elevation in systemic arterial pressure was reversed to one that favored nociception in the presence of met-enkephalin. All actions of met-enkephalin were discernibly blocked by the opioid receptor antagonist, naloxone. Our results suggest that individual NRGC neurons may participate in the processing of both nociceptive and cardiovascular information, or in the coordination of the necessary circulatory supports during nociception. In addition, neuropeptides such as met-enkephalin may exert differential modulation on neuronal responsiveness according to the prevailing physiologic status of the animal. They also showed that NRGC may be a central integrator for pain and cardiovascular-related functions. Copyright 1996 S. Karger AG, Basel
A novel neuronal model (PC12EN cells), obtained by somatic hybridization of rat adrenal medullary pheochromocytoma (PC12) and bovine adrenal medullary endothelial (BAME) cells, was developed. PC12EN cells maintained numerous neuronal characteristics: they expressed neuronal glycolipid conjugates, synthesized and secreted catecholamines, and responded to differentiative agents with neurite outgrowth. PC12EN lacked receptors for EGF and both the p75 and trk NGF receptors, while FGF receptor expression was maintained. Staurosporine (5-50 nM), but not other members of the K252a family of protein kinase inhibitors, rapidly induced neurite outgrowth in PC12EN, as also found in the parental PC12 cells, but not in BAME cells. Similarly, both acidic and basic FGF (1-100 ng/ml) were neurotropic in PC12EN. In contrast to the mechanism by which FGF promoted neurite outgrowth in PC12EN, the neurotropic effect of staurosporine did not involve activation of established signalling pathways, such as tyrosine phosphorylation of erk (ras pathway) or SNT (a specific target of neuronal differentiation). In addition, staurosporine induced the tyrosine phosphorylation of the focal adhesion kinase p125FAK. However, since the latter effect was also observed with other protein kinase inhibitors of the K252a family, which induced PC12EN cells flattening but no neurite extension, we propose that FAK tyrosine phosphorylation may be related to ubiquitous changes in cell shape. We anticipate that PC12EN neuronal hybrids will become useful models in neuroscience research for evaluating unique cellular signalling mechanisms of novel neurotropic compounds.
Previously, a high affinity, glycosylphosphatidylinositol-anchored receptor for folate and a caveolae internalization cycle have been found necessary for potocytosis of 5-methyltetrahydrofolate in MA104. We now show by cell fractionation that folate receptors also must be clustered in caveolae for potocytosis. An enriched fraction of caveolae from control cells retained 65-70% of the [3H]folic acid bound to cells in culture. Exposure of cells to the cholesterol-binding drug, filipin, which is known to uncluster receptors, shifted approximately 50% of the bound [3H]folic acid from the caveolae fraction to the noncaveolae membrane fraction and markedly inhibited internalization of [3H]folic acid. An mAb directed against the folate receptor also shifted approximately 50% of the caveolae-associated [3H]folic acid to noncaveolae membrane, indicating the antibody perturbs the normal receptor distribution. Concordantly, the mAb inhibited the delivery of 5-methyl[3H]tetrahydrofolate to the cytoplasm. Receptor bound 5-methyl[3H]tetrahydrofolate moved directly from caveolae to the cytoplasm and was not blocked by phenylarsine oxide, an inhibitor of receptor-mediated endocytosis. These results suggest cell fractionation can be used to study the uptake of molecules by caveolae.
In the present study the intrinsic nerve plexuses of the basal cerebral arteries, derived from aged non-Alzheimer's and aged Alzheimer's disease patients were quantified and compared. A previous study described and quantified nerve density on similar arteries from healthy middle-aged patients. Whole-mount preparations of various segments of the basal cerebral arteries were stained for protein gene product 9.5. The deep nerve plexuses, located at the adventitial-medial border, were quantified by image analysis. Transverse cryostat sections were stained for various markers and quantified. Measurements on whole mounts demonstrated that nerve densities were highest in the posterior communicating artery and in the postcommunicating part of the posterior cerebral artery (PCA) for both aged and Alzheimer's groups. Statistical comparison showed a tendency toward decreased nerve density with aging, which was significant for the internal carotid artery, precommunicating part of the PCA, and the anterior choroidal artery in both non-Alzheimer's and Alzheimer's aged groups. In addition, in Alzheimer's patients nerve density was significantly lower in the precommunicating part of the anterior cerebral artery compared with the healthy aged group. Measurements on sections confirmed the tendency to decreased innervation with aging. It is concluded that densities of deep perivascular nerves of human basal cerebral arteries are subject to localized changes caused by aging and Alzheimer's disease.
In the present study the topographical distribution of the intrinsic nerve plexuses of the basal cerebral arteries in humans was quantified and the relation between vessel diameter and nerve density was investigated. Whole-mount preparations of various segments of the basal cerebral arteries from middle-aged patients were stained for protein gene product (PGP) 9.5. The deep nerve plexuses, located at the adventitial-medial border, were quantified by image analysis. Confocal scanning laser microscopy was used to study nerve plexuses throughout the adventitia. Transverse cryostat sections were stained for PGP 9.5, tyrosine hydroxylase and neurofilament, and quantified. The results showed a three-layered configuration of the adventitial nerves. Measurements on whole-mounts demonstrated that nerve densities were highest in the posterior communicating artery (PCom), and next highest in the proximal parts of the posterior cerebral artery (PCA) and anterior choroidal artery. There appeared to be no clear relation between nerve density and vessel diameter. The measurements on sections confirmed the high nerve densities in the PCom and PCA. Tyrosine hydroxylase- and neurofilament-immunoreactivities appeared to demonstrate separate subpopulations of the overall nerve plexuses, representing sympathetic and, possibly, sensory fibers, respectively. Densities of both subgroups generally followed those of PGP 9.5-immunoreactive nerves. Transmission electron microscopy suggested motor function of the deep nerve plexuses. The results indicate a stronger neuronal influence on this part of the cerebral circulation than hitherto reported. It is concluded that human basal cerebral arteries display a topographical distribution of deep perivascular nerves, and that nerve density is determined by locality rather than by vascular diameter.
Glutamate (Glu) neurotoxicity is an important element of a number of neurological disorders including central nervous system (CNS) ischemia. We evaluated the effects of the novel AMPA Glu antagonist LY293558 on functional neurological outcome in two rabbit stroke models. In the reversible spinal cord ischemia model, ischemia of the caudal lumbar spinal cord was produced by temporary occlusion of the abdominal aorta. LY293558 was administered 5 min after recirculation as a 16 mg/kg i.v. bolus followed by 2.2 mg/kg infused over 1 h. Control animals received saline. LY293558 significantly increased the duration of ischemia required to produce paraplegia, from 30.5 +/- 15.8 min (mean +/- SD) controls to 50.1 +/- 11.5 in treated animals (p &lt; 0.01). In an irreversible model of cerebral ischemia, 50 microns plastic microspheres were injected into the carotid artery and lodged in the cerebral microvasculature. LY293558 did not significantly reduce neurological damage in this model. These data suggest that LY293558 may have therapeutic benefit following some types of ischemic injury.
We studied the effect of a novel alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methylisoxazole-4-propionic acid (AMPA)/kainate antagonist, YM90K [6-(1H-imidazol-1-yl)-7-nitro-2, 3(1H, 4H)-quinoxalinedione monohydrochloride], in a focal cerebral ischemia model using anesthetized cats. Cats were subjected to permanent occlusion of the middle cerebral artery (MCA) for 6 h, then killed and examined histologically. The amount of ischemic damage was assessed in 12 stereotaxic coronal sections. Treatment with YM90K (i.v. infusion of 0.5 mg/5 ml/kg/h) starting 10 min after MCA occlusion markedly reduced the volume of ischemic damage (from 2823 +/- 164 mm3 of the cerebral hemisphere in saline-treated cats to 1737 +/- 305 mm3 in YM90K-treated cats). No essential differences were observed between YM90K-and saline-treated cats concerning physiological variables or brain temperature. These results further support the notion that the AMPA/kainate receptor plays an important role in the pathogenesis of focal cerebral ischemia. This evidence for the neuroprotective efficacy of YM90K in a gyrencephalic species suggests its therapeutic potential in the treatment of human stroke.
Nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate-diaphorase (NADPHd) histochemical techniques were used to identify neurons synthesizing nitric oxide in the lateral septum of the guinea pig. Double immunocytochemical procedures were used to detect neurons immunoreactive for calbindin-D28k and enkephalinergic fibers which project to the lateral septum. The present data demonstrate that (1) the neurons containing NADPH diaphorase and the neurons immunoreactive for calbindin-D28k are observed in discrete regions of the lateral septum; (2) these populations overlap in various areas of the lateral septum including its dorsal and mediolateral parts; (3) NADPH diaphorase and calbindin-D28k are colocalized in neurons located in the overlapping areas; (4) neurons identified by the presence of calbindin-D28k, NADPH diaphorase or both substances, are surrounded by enkephalinergic fibers. These observations indicate the chemical heterogeneity of the lateral septum and suggest that the enkephalinergic hypothalamo-septal tract does not preferentially contact a subpopulation of neurons.
Abstract Based on recent research that suggests that the processing of spatial and object information in the primate brain involves functionally and anatomically different systems, we examined whether the encoding and retention of object and spatial information in working memory are associated with different ERP components. In a study-test procedure subjects were asked to either remember simple geometric objects presented in a 4 by 4 spatial matrix irrespective of their position (object memory task) or to remember spatial positions of the objects irrespective of their forms (spatial memory task). The EEG was recorded from 13 electrodes during the study phase and the test phase. Recognition performance (reaction time and accuracy) was not different for the two memory tasks. PCA analyses suggest that the same four ERP components are evoked in the study phase by both tasks, which could be identified as N100, P200, P300, and slow wave. ERPs started to differ as a function of memory task 225 msec after stimulus onset at the posterior recording sites: An occipital maximal P200 component, lateralized to the right posterior temporal recording site, was observed for the object memory but not for the spatial memory task. Between-tasks differences were also obtained for P300 scalp distribution. Moreover, ERPs evoked by objects that were remembered later were more positive than ERPs to objects that were not remembered, starting at 400 msec postsimulus. The PCA analysis suggest that P300 and a slow wave following P300 at the frontal recordings contribute to these differences. A similar differential effect was not found between positions remembered or not remembered later. Post hoc analyses revealed that the absence of such effects in the spatial memory task could be due to less elaborated mnemonic strategies used in the spatial task compared to the object memory task. In the face of two additional behavioral experiments showing that subjects exclusively encode object features in the object memory task and spatial stimulus features in the spatial memory task, the present data provide evidence that encoding and rehearsal of object and spatial information in working memory are subserved by functionally and anatomically different subsystems.
Beginning from a biologically based integrate and fire model of a rat whisker barrel, we employ semirigorous techniques to reduce the system to a simple set of equations, similar to the Wilson-Cowan equations, while retaining the ability for both qualitative and quantitative comparisons with the biological system. This is made possible through the clarification of three distinct measures of population activity: voltage, firing rate, and a new term called synaptic drive. The model is activated by prerecorded neural activity obtained from thalamic &quot;barreloid&quot; neurons in response to whisker stimuli. Output is produced in the form of population PSTHs, one each corresponding to activity of spiny (excitatory) and smooth (inhibitory) barrel neurons, which is quantitatively comparable to PSTHs from electrophysiologically studied regular-spike and fast-spike neurons. Through further analysis, the model yields novel physiological predictions not readily apparent from the full model or from experimental studies.
Two experiments tested an identical elements model of the organization of basic arithmetic skills (T. C. Rickard, A. F. Healy, &amp; L. E. Bourne, 1994). This model assumes a distinct abstract representation for each unique combination of the basic elements (i.e., the operands and the required operation) of a problem. Participants practiced multiplication and division problems and were then tested on various altered versions of these problems. Experiment 1 confirmed the prediction of no positive transfer when the presented elements of a test problem do not exactly match those of a practice problem. Experiment 2 confirmed the prediction that there is complete transfer when the elements of the test problem match exactly with those of a practice problem. Experiment 2 also confirmed that there is both perceptually specific and nonspecific speed-up with practice. Implications for number processing and arithmetic are discussed.

Transferrin has been proposed as the mobilization protein for iron and manganese. To better understand the role of transferrin in the transport of these metals, we studied the tissue distribution of injected iron 59 and manganese 54 in the hypotransferrinemic (Hp) mouse mutant. The Hp mouse has a mutation in the transferrin gene and produces &lt; 1% of normal transferrin levels. The tissue distribution of 59Fe and 54Mn in Hp mice was compared with that in animals heterozygous for the Hp mutation (50% transferrin levels) and wild-type animals. Formed elements in the brain, liver, spleen, heart, sternum/rib, plasma, and blood were analyzed for isotope incorporation at 24 hours, 7 days, and 4 weeks after injection. Tissue distribution of both 59Fe and 54Mn was similar in wild-type and heterozygote animals, indicating that decreased transferrin concentration and increased saturation did not influence the tissue distribution of the injected metals. The absence of transferrin in the Hp mutant was associated with abnormal tissue distribution of radiolabeled iron; there was 4 times more 59Fe than normal in the Hp liver and 10 times less 59Fe in the spleen and blood formed elements than normal. Injected manganese also accumulated at abnormally high levels in the Hp mouse liver. Distribution of either metal to the brain, heart, and sternum/rib was not affected by the absence of plasma transferrin. These results reveal that transferrin is required for proper targeting of manganese and iron, especially from the liver to other organs, but further indicate that nontransferrin transport mechanisms for iron and manganese must exist.
We studied the localization of N-acyl phosphatidylethanolamine (NAPE), a putative cannabinoid precursor, in primary cultures of striatal and cortical neurons from the rat brain. We probed intact neurons with various exogenous phospholipases, including S. chromofuscus phospholipase D (PLD). S. chromofuscus PLD does not penetrate into neurons (as demonstrated by a lack of internalization of 125I-labeled PLD), and does not cause gross damage to the neuronal membrane (as demonstrated by a lack of effect of PLD on [3H]gamma-aminobutyric acid release). When neurons, labeled to isotopic equilibrium with [3H]ethanolamine, were incubated for 10 min with S. chromofuscus PLD, approximately 50% of neuronal NAPE was hydrolysed. This hydrolysis was accompanied by the release of a family of N-acyl ethanolamines (NAE) (assessed by high performance liquid chromatography), which included the cannabinoid receptor agonist, anandamide. Exogenous phospholipase A2 (PLA2) (Apis mellifera) and PLC (B. cereus) mobilized [3H]arachidonate and [3H]diacylglycerol, respectively, but had no effect on NAE formation under these conditions. These experiments indicate that approximately 50% of neuronal NAPE is localized in a compartment that is easily accessible to extracellular PLD, possibly the plasmalemma, where it would also be easily hydrolyzed upon stimulation to produce NAE.

Nerve growth factor (NGF) induces neuritelike process outgrowth in cultured adult pancreatic beta cells. DbcAMP partially mimics this effect on cell morphology, and both compounds act synergistically to promote neuritelike process outgrowth. To determine if NGF- and dbcAMP-induced differentiation was accompanied by changes in beta cell electrical activity, we studied the macroscopic Na current of adult rat beta cells identified with the reverse hemolytic plaque assay and cultured for one week with these factors. After 5-7 days, beta cells cultured in the presence of 2.5S NGF exhibited a 48% increase on the macroscopic Na current, which was due to an increase on Na current density. We did not observe changes on voltage dependence of current activation, nor on steady-state inactivation. Although dbcAMP also promotes changes on beta cell morphology, it did not affect the Na current density.
Microdialysis has been proven to be a valuable tool to study in vivo release of various neurotransmitters in the rat brain. Recently we demonstrated for the first time the release of neurotrophic bioactivity in the brains of awake rats. Neurotrophic factors, however, exist in extremely low concentrations in the brain compared to neurotransmitters, rendering their detection particularly difficult. This review summarizes knowledge about the use of microdialysis for the detection of neurotrophic bioactivity, its limits, and its problems.
When subjects are required to produce short sequences of equally paced finger taps and to accentuate one of the taps, the interval preceding the forceful tap is shortened and the one that immediately follows the accent is lengthened. Assuming that the tapping movements are triggered by an internal clock, one explanation attributes the rnistiming of the taps to central factors: The momentary rate of the clock is accelerated or decelerated as a function of motor preparation to, respectively, increase or decrease the movement force. This hypothesis predicts that the interresponse intervals measured between either tap movement onsets or movement terminations (taps) will show the same timing pattern. A second explanation for the observed interval effects is that the tapping movements are triggered by a regular internal clock but the timing of the successive taps is altered because the forceful movement is completed in less time than the other tap movements are. This &quot;peripheral&quot; hypothesis predicts regular timing of movement onsets but distorted timing of movement terminations. In the present study, the trajectories of the movements performed by subjects were recorded and the interresponse intervals were measured at the beginning and the end of the tapping movements. The results of Experiment 1 showed that neither model can fully explain the interval effects: The fast forceful movements were initiated with an additional delay that took into account the small execution time of these movements. Experiment 2 reproduced this finding and showed that the timing of the onset and contact intervals did not evolve with the repetition of trial blocks. Therefore, the assumption of an internal clock that would trigger the successive movements must be rejected. The results are discussed in the framework of a modified two-stage model in which the internal clock, instead of triggering the tapping movements, provides target time points at which the movements have to produce their meaningful effects, that is, contacts with the response key. The timing distortions are likely to reflect both peripheral and central components.
The patterns of gene expression in the Drosophila brain were studied by using the lacZ reporter gene carried on an enhancer detector element. From the analysis of serial sections of the heads of 6000 enhancer detector lines, reporter gene expression in some lines was found to generally follow boundaries established by cell type or anatomy, revealing distinct patterns of lacZ expression restricted to the lamina, the medulla, mushroom bodies, antennal lobes, or other anatomical subdivisions. About 15% of the lines showed ubiquitous expression in most or all head tissues and 25% of the lines showed expression throughout the CNS. Another quarter of the lines showed widespread expression in the CNS, with large regions of the brain showing expression. This suggests that the majority of detected genes are expressed with little spatial specificity. The expression patterns produced by 12 different insertions at the rutabaga locus were found to be extremely similar in the brain and offer strong evidence that the enhancer detector elements generally report the activity of an adjacent gene. Only 15% of the lines were judged to have relatively specific expression in one brain region, including those with preferential or specific expression in the mushroom bodies, antennal lobes, lamina, medulla, etc. The cytological insertion sites for elements showing preferential mushroom body expression were found to be dispersed in the genome at approximately 50 different chromosomal regions. In addition to providing a broad picture of the transcriptional activity in the Drosophila brain, these enhancer detector lines offer access to interesting new genes and form a novel collection of lines in which identifiable brain cells are marked in a reproducible way.
Cytochemical analysis demonstrated that a high percentage of human Y-79 retinoblastoma cells displayed a specific labeling by the biotinyl derivative of pituitary adenylate cyclase-activating polypeptide (PACAP), a novel neuropeptide of the secretin-vasoactive intestinal peptide (VIP) family of peptides. In cell membranes, the two molecular forms of PACAP, the one with 38 (PACAP 38) and the other with 27 (PACAP 27) amino acids, displaced the binding of 125I-PACAP 27 with IC50 values in the picomolar range and increased adenylyl cyclase activity by 100-fold with EC50 values of 27 and 180 pM, respectively. VIP, human peptide histidine-isoleucine, glucagon, and secretin were much less effective and potent in both receptor assays. The PACAP receptor antagonists PACAP 6-27 and PACAP 6-38 and an antiserum directed against the stimulatory G protein Gs inhibited the PACAP stimulation of adenylyl cyclase. In intact cells, both PACAPs and VIP failed to stimulate the phosphoinositide hydrolysis, whereas in cell membranes PACAP 38, but not the other peptides, produced a modest increase (40%) of inositol phosphate formation with an EC50 value of 22 nM. However, this effect was not antagonized by either PACAP 6-38 or PACAP 6-27. These data demonstrate the presence in human Y-79 retinoblastoma cells of specific PACAP receptors and provide further evidence that PACAP may act as a neurotransmitter/neuromodulator in mammalian retina.
Characteristics of the transport of the nitric oxide synthase substrate L-arginine and its inhibitor, NG-nitro-L-arginine (L-NOARG), into rat cerebellar synaptosomes were studied. Uptake of both L-arginine and L-NOARG was linear with increasing amount of protein (up to 40 micrograms) and time of incubation (up to 5 min) at 37 degrees C. Uptake of both compounds reached a steady state by 20 min. Maximal uptake of L-NOARG (650 pmol/mg of protein) was three to four times higher than that of L-arginine (170 pmol/mg of protein). L-NOARG uptake showed biphasic kinetics (Km1 = 0.72 mM, Vmax 1 = 0.98 nmol/min/mg of protein; Km2 = 2.57 mM, Vmax2 = 16.25 nmol/min/mg of protein). L-Arginine uptake was monophasic with a Km of 106 microM and a Vmax of 0.33 nmol/min/mg of protein. L-NOARG uptake was selectively inhibited by L-NOARG, NG-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester, and branched-chain and aromatic amino acids. L-Alanine and L-serine also inhibited L-NOARG uptake but with less potency. Uptake of L-arginine was selectively inhibited by NG-monomethyl-L-arginine acetate and basic amino acids. These studies suggest that in rat cerebellar synaptosomes, L-NOARG is transported by the neutral amino acid carrier systems T and L with high affinity, whereas L-arginine is transported by the basic amino acid carrier system y+ with high affinity. These data indicate that the concentration of competing amino acids is an important factor in determining the rates of uptake of L-NOARG and L-arginine into synaptosomes and, in this way, may control the activity of nitric oxide synthase.
SH-SY5Y human neuroblastoma cells express muscarinic M3 receptors as well as insulin receptors, thus offering the opportunity to investigate possible cross-talk following activation of two distinct intracellular signal transduction pathways that convert the precursor phosphatidylinositol (PI) to its 3' phosphate or its 4' phosphate, respectively. In this study, the effect of carbachol on insulin-stimulated PI 3-kinase (PI3K) activity was examined in SH-SY5Y cells. Insulin addition to the cell medium induced a 10-26-fold increase in anti-phosphotyrosine-immunoprecipitable PI3K activity. Preincubation with 1 mM carbachol inhibited the insulin-stimulated PI3K activity in a time-dependent manner, with half-maximal and maximal inhibition times of 4 and 15 min, respectively. Atropine blocked the inhibitory effect of carbachol. Although carbachol did not change the amount of 85-kDa subunit protein regulatory unit associated with tyrosine-phosphorylated proteins, either in control or in insulin-stimulated cells, it appears to decrease the amount of associated 110-kDa catalytic subunit protein in the latter instance. Because PI3K activity from SH-SY5Y cells has been shown to be inhibited in vitro in the presence of cytidine diphosphodiacylglycerol (CDP-DAG) or phosphatidate (PA), we examined the presence of these lipids in SH-SY5Y cells that had been treated with carbachol. Formation of both lipids was increased in a time-dependent manner following carbachol addition, and their increased levels are proposed to account for the observed in vivo inhibition of PI3K. Addition of the cell-permeable homologue didecanoyl-CDP-DAG to intact cells inhibited insulin-stimulated PI3K activity up to 75%, with an IC50 of 0.5 microM, a result that further supports a proposed lipid-mediated inhibition of PI3K. Exogenously added didecanoyl-PA, however, did not affect PI3K activity. The possibility that stimulation of the PI 4-kinase-mediated signal transduction pathway leads to down-regulation of the PI3K-mediated signal transduction pathway in vivo, via inhibition of PI3K by CDP-DAG or by other consequences of phosphoinositidase C-linked receptor activation, is discussed.
We examined the axonal transport of actin and its monomer binding proteins, actin depolymerizing factor, cofilin, and profilin, in the chicken sciatic nerve following injection of [35S]methionine into the lumbar spinal cord. At intervals up to 20 days after injection, nerves were cut into 1-cm segments and separated into Triton X-100-soluble and particulate fractions. Actin and its binding proteins were then isolated by affinity chromatography on DNase I-Sepharose and by one- and two-dimensional polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis. Fluorographic analysis showed that the specific activity of soluble actin was two to three times that of its particulate form and that soluble actin, cofilin, actin depolymerizing factor, and profilin were transported at similar rates in slow component b of axonal flow. Our data strongly support the view that the mobile form of actin in slow transport is soluble and that a substantial amount of this actin may travel as a complex with actin depolymerizing factor, cofilin, and profilin. Along labeled nerves the specific activity of the unphosphorylated form of actin depolymerizing factor, which binds actin, was not significantly different from that of its &quot;inactive&quot; phosphorylated form. This constancy in specific activity suggests that continuous inactivation and reactivation of actin depolymerizing factor occur during transport, which could contribute to the exchange of soluble actin with the filamentous actin pool.
The effect of oxidative stress induced by the oxidant pair ascorbate/Fe2+ on the activity of ionotropic glutamate receptors was studied in cultured chick retina cells. The release of [3H]GABA and the increase of the intracellular free Na+ concentration ([Na+]i), evoked by glutamate receptor agonists, were used as functional assays for the activity of the receptors. The results show that the maximal release of [3H]GABA evoked by kainate (KA; approximately 20% of the total) or AMPA (approximately 11% of the total) was not different in control and peroxidized cells, whereas the EC50 values determined for peroxidized cells (33.6 +/- 1.7 and 8.0 +/- 2.0 microM for KA and AMPA, respectively) were significantly lower than those determined under control conditions (54.1 +/- 6.6 and 13.0 +/- 2.2 microM for KA and AMPA, respectively). The maximal release of [3H]GABA evoked by NMDA under K+ depolarization was significantly higher in peroxidized cells (7.5 +/- 0.5% of the total) as compared with control cells (4.0 +/- 0.2% of the total), and the effect of oxidative stress was significantly reduced by a phospholipase A2 inhibitor or by fatty acid-free bovine serum albumin. The change in the intracellular [Na+]i evoked by saturating concentrations of NMDA under depolarizing conditions was significantly higher in peroxidized cells (8.9 +/- 0.6 mM) than in control cells (5.9 +/- 1.0 mM). KA, used at a subsaturating concentration (35 microM), evoked significantly greater increases of the [Na+]i in peroxidized cells (11.8 +/- 1.7 mM) than in control cells (7.1 +/- 0.8 mM). A saturating concentration (150 microM) of this agonist triggered similar increases of the [Na+]i in control and peroxidized cells. Accordingly, the maximal number of binding sites for (+)-5-[3H]methyl-10,11-dihydro-5H-dibenzo[a,d]cyclohepten-5,10- imine 11-dihydro-5H-dibenzo[a,d]cyclohepten-5,10-imine maleate ([3H]MK-801) was increased after peroxidation, whereas the maximal number of binding sites for [3H]KA was not affected by oxidative stress. These data suggest that under oxidative stress the activity of the ionotropic glutamate receptors is increased, with the NMDA receptor being the most affected by peroxidation.
Tryptophan hydroxylase, the initial and rate-limiting enzyme in the biosynthesis of the neurotransmitter serotonin, is inactivated by nitric oxide (NO) and by the NO generators sodium nitroprusside, diethylamine/NO, S-nitroso-N-acetylpenicillamine, and S-nitrosocysteine. The inactivation occurs in an oxygen-free environment and is enhanced by dithiothreitol and ascorbic acid. Protection against the effect of NO on tryptophan hydroxylase is afforded by oxyhemoglobin, reduced glutathione, and exogenous Fe(II). Catalase partially protects the enzyme from NO-induced inactivation, whereas both superoxide dismutase and uric acid are without effect. These findings indicate that tryptophan hydroxylase is a target for NO and suggest that critical iron-sulfur groups in this enzyme serve as the substrate for NO-induced nitrosylation of the protein, resulting in enzyme inactivation.
cDNAs encoding the full-length sequence for tryptophan hydroxylase, and deletion mutants consisting of the regulatory (amino acids 1-98) or catalytic (amino acids 99-444) domains of the enzyme, were cloned and expressed as glutathione S-transferase fusion proteins in E. coli. The recombinant fusion proteins could be purified to near homogeneity within minutes by affinity chromatography on glutathione-agarose. The full-length enzyme and the catalytic core expressed very high levels of tryptophan hydroxylase activity. The regulatory domain was devoid of activity. The full-length enzyme and the catalytic core, while adsorbed to glutathione-agarose beads, obeyed Michaelis-Menten kinetics, and the kinetic properties of each recombinant enzyme for cofactor and substrate compared very closely to native, brain tryptophan hydroxylase. Both active forms of the glutathione S-transferase-tryptophan hydroxylase fusion proteins had strict requirements for ferrous iron in catalysis and expressed much higher levels of activity (Vmax) than the brain enzyme. Analysis of full-length tryptophan hydroxylase and the catalytic core by molecular sieve chromatography under nondenaturing conditions revealed that each fusion protein behaved as a tetrameric species. These results indicate that a truncated tryptophan hydroxylase, consisting of amino acids 99-444 of the full-length enzyme, contains the sequence motifs needed for subunit assembly. Both wild-type tryptophan hydroxylase and the catalytic core are expressed as apoenzymes which are converted to holoenzymes by exogenous iron. The tryptophan hydroxylase catalytic core is also as active as the full-length enzyme, suggesting the possibility that the regulatory domain exerts a suppressive effect on the catalytic core of tryptophan hydroxylase.
A cDNA encoding full-length tryptophan hydroxylase was produced by reverse transcriptase-PCR from rat brain mRNA and expressed transiently in a human fibroblast cell line. Catalytic activity was low unless transfected cells were grown in the presence of FeSO4. Recombinant tryptophan hydroxylase was found almost exclusively within the soluble compartment of the cell and was dependent on tryptophan and tetrahydrobiopterin for activity. The catalytic activity of recombinant tryptophan hydroxylase was stimulated &gt; 25-fold by Fe(II) and to a somewhat lesser extent by the polyanions heparin and phosphatidylserine. The enzyme was inhibited by desferrioxamine and dopamine, both of which complex iron. When extracts from transfected cells were subjected to sucrose gradient centrifugation and analytical gel filtration, the recombinant enzyme behaved the same as the native enzyme from brain. A monoclonal antibody against phenylalanine hydroxylase that cross-reacts with brain tryptophan hydroxylase was capable of immunoprecipitating the recombinant hydroxylase from solution. These data indicate that recombinant tryptophan hydroxylase expressed in mammalian cells is assembled into tetramers of approximately 220,000 daltons. Its catalytic and physical properties appear to be very similar to those of the native enzyme from brain.
N-Acetylated alpha-linked acidic dipeptidase is a membrane-bound peptidase that cleaves the neuropeptide N-acetyl-aspartyl-glutamate to N-acetyl-aspartate and glutamate. Previously, we have shown that in adult rat this enzyme is expressed by the non-myelinating Schwann cells in peripheral nerve. In the present study, we have determined the expression pattern of this peptidase in rat sciatic nerve during late embryonal and early postnatal development, using double-label immunofluorescence, enzyme assays and immunoblotting. We demonstrate that N-acetylated alpha-linked acidic dipeptidase is expressed by all Schwann cell precursor cells on embryonal day 14/15 and by all undifferentiated Schwann cells on embryonal days 16/17 and 20/21 and postnatal day 1. Moreover, we show that during the first postnatal week, the peptidase expression is down-regulated in the myelinating Schwann cells while the total enzyme activity levels and the enzyme amounts present in the nerve are transiently increased. To determine whether Schwann cell peptidase expression is dependent on axonal contact, we performed immunofluorescence experiments in cultured Schwann cells. These in vitro experiments demonstrate that the expression of this enzyme is maintained in culture for several weeks without axonal contact. Furthermore, they confirm previous suggestions that this peptidase is expressed on the extracellular side of the Schwann cell membrane. These findings support the notion that N-acetylated alpha-linked acidic dipeptidase takes part in signaling between peripheral axons and Schwann cells. The temporary increase in peptidase activity during the first postnatal week strongly implicates a role for this enzyme in the process of axon ensheathment and/or axon myelination.
Recently, we demonstrated that single administration of interleukin-1 beta (IL-1) to adult rats induces a long-lasting (weeks) increase of vasopressin (AVP) stores in terminals of CRH neurons in the external zone of the median eminence (ZEME). This is accompanied by hypersecretion of AVP into the pituitary portal circulation and long-lasting hyperresponsiveness of the hypothalamo-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis to stressors. Here, we determine whether this form of plasticity of hypothalamic CRH neurons is specific for IL-1 or represents a general response to a stressor. Single exposure of rats to lipopolysaccharide (LPS), IL-1, brain surgery or electric footshocks increases the AVP stores in the ZEME 7 and 11 days later. Exposure to insulin or ether does not affect the AVP stores. The stressors have little or no effect on the CRH stores in the ZEME. The amplitude of the increase in AVP as measured 7-11 days after stimulation correlates with the overall ACTH response to the stressor (area under curve, r = 0.89, P &lt; 0.0001), with the peak ACTH levels (r = 0.52, P &lt; 0.05), but not with the duration of the ACTH response nor with any parameter of the corticosterone response. Administration of ACTH or corticosterone at doses that mimic stress-induced plasma levels does not increase AVP stores 7 days later. We conclude that long-lasting increases of AVP stores in CRH terminals in the ZEME can be induced by various stressors and postulate that the amplitude of such increases depends on the degree of activation of the CRH neurons by the stressor. (NWO grant: 900-543-101.)
Five patients with left-sided visual neglect following focal infarction of the right frontal lobe are presented. Lesion location was assessed using computed tomography or magnetic resonance imaging. The common area of lesion overlap was small, being confined to the dorsal aspect of the inferior frontal gyrus (Brodmann's area 44) and the immediate underlying white matter. This cortical region is part of the homologue of Broca's area in the right hemisphere and is considered to be part of human premotor cortex. The association of neglect with injury to this area suggests it may play an important role in directing attention in visual space.

The recent discovery of missense mutations in the superoxide dismutase (SOD)-1 gene as a cause of familial amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) and the ensuing description of transgenic SOD-1 mutant mouse models have focussed scientific interest on free radical scavenging mechanisms in all other familial (FALS) and sporadic (SALS) forms of the disease. We have compared the presence of intracellular cytosolic copper-zinc SOD-1 and mitochondrial manganese SOD-2 in the CNS from FALS and SALS patients and from non-neurological controls by immunohistochemical assessment, in the knowledge that no SOD-1 mutations have been found in any of 18 Dutch ALS pedigrees. ALS specimens from the motor cortex and the spinal cord presented enhanced SOD-2 immunoreactivity, especially of astrocytes and occasionally of neurons. Astrocyte staining appeared to be increased at the cerebral cortical and the spinal cervical and lumbar levels, but was only slightly increased in the thoracic anterior horns and not at all in the brain stem. This indicates that, by the time of death, the disease had burnt out in the brain stem and thoracic cord. Increased staining of neurons was limited to the small lateral and dorsal nuclei of the spinal cord. FALS and SALS cases exhibited the same staining patterns. SOD-1 immunoreactivity did not differ between disease and control specimens. SOD-1 and -2 staining was normal in the ALS cortical, brain stem and spinal motoneurons. This suggests that SALS and non-SOD-1 mutant FALS are not accompanied by loss of SOD-1 or -2 protein. An enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay revealed no differences in SOD-1 and SOD-2 levels between ALS patients and controls. Our major finding of locally increased SOD-2 immunoreactivity of astrocytes in FALS and SALS specimens, probably reflects reactive fibrillary and protoplasmatic gliosis in areas of ongoing degeneration but may also result from an attempt at compensation for free radical injury.
We report a 61-year-old woman with bilateral optic neuritis and loss of vision following influenza vaccination. The patient had good recovery of vision following steroid treatment.

1. Extracellular bath application of the selective Ca2+/calmodulin-dependent kinase II (CaMKII) inhibitor KN-62 to hippocampal slices in vitro blocked the induction of long-term depression (LTD) by low-frequency Schaffer collateral stimulation (1 Hz/15 min) of the same concentration as has been shown previously to prevent induction of long-term potentiation (LTP) at these synapses. 2. In contrast, postsynaptic intracellular infusion of KN-62 into single CA1 pyramidal neurons did not prevent induction of LTD, although it was quite effective in blocking LTP. 3. We conclude that there is a presynaptic CaMKII that must be activated to induce LTD, whereas postsynaptic CaMKII stimulation is needed to evoke LTP. 4. Bath application of KN-62 also blocked depotentiation by low-frequency stimuli of previously induced LTP, suggesting that induction of depotentiation and de novo LTD may require the same CaMKII-dependent mechanisms.
1. The aim of this study was to characterize the signals transmitted by the neurons of the nucleus prepositus hypoglossal (NPH) to the middle zone of the flocculus of the cat. The methods, the behavioral testing, and the animals used in this study were the same as those used in the accompanying paper on medial vestibular nucleus neurons. 2. The rostral two-thirds of the NPH was explored in alert animals with microelectrodes during stimulation of the middle zone of both flocculi. Discharges of neurons were analyzed during spontaneous eye movements (head fixed) and during horizontal vestibuloocular reflex (VOR) activity elicited by sinusoidal stimulation (10, 20, 30, or 40 degrees at 0.1 Hz). Forty neurons were found to be antidromically activated from only one or the other of the two flocculi (latency: 0.99 +/- 0.17 ms, mean +/- SD): 37 from the contralateral flocculus and 3 from the ipsilateral one. None of the neurons could be activated antidromically from both flocculi. Floccular stimulation never resulted in direct inhibition of these NPH neurons. 3. Of the 37 units antidromically activated from the contralateral flocculus, 26 were recorded sufficiently long to allow full quantitative analysis. Most of these (20 neurons) were classified as burst-tonic (BT) neurons. The BT neurons exhibited during each saccade made in one direction (the ON direction) a burst of spikes, and during postsaccadic fixation a tonic activity that increased with gaze displacement in the ON direction. The mean sensitivity of the neurons to eye velocity during the &quot;ON&quot; saccades was 3.3 +/- 1.6 spikes.s-1.deg-1.s-1. During intersaccadic fixation, the mean sensitivity to eye position was 3.6 +/- 2.5 spikes.s-1.deg-1. During the VOR, the majority showed modulation in relation to both eye position and eye velocity. The mean sensitivity to eye position during the VOR was 3.4 +/- 2.6 spikes.s-1.deg-1 (range: 0.2-8.1 spikes.s-1.deg-1). The mean sensitivity to eye velocity during the VOR was 2.1 +/- 1.3 spikes.s-1.deg-1.s-1. The mean phase lead of with respect to eye position was 16.4 +/- 6.8 degrees (range: 6.0-28.9 degrees). Eighty percent of the BT neurons behaved as type I neurons. Forty-seven percent of the BT neurons also presented some head velocity sensitivity (1.48 +/- 0.6 spikes.s-1.deg-1.s-1, mean +/- SD). 4. Other NPH cells antidromically activated from the contralateral flocculus were classified in two groups: bidirectional burst (BB) neurons (n = 4) and burst-driving (BD) neurons (n = 2). The BB neurons were characterized by a burst discharge during every horizontal saccade or VOR quick phase, irrespective of the direction. The mean sensitivity of the BB neurons to eye velocity during saccades was 3.3 +/- 7.8 (SD) spikes.s-1.deg-1.s-1. Both BD neurons increased their firing rate during the slow VOR phases induced by an ipsilateral rotation (type I neurons) and exhibited high-frequency bursts in association with ipsilaterally directed quick phases. 5. The results indicate that the main projection of the NPH onto the middle zone of the flocculus comes from contralaterally located type I BT neurons. Signals transmitted in this path associate a high sensitivity for eye velocity with a high sensitivity for eye position. This type of input is consistent with the suggestion that the main function of the flocculus is to control the gain of downstream reflexes and to perform a fine adjustment of the gaze holding command.
1. The aim of this study was to characterize the signals transmitted by neurons of the medial vestibular nucleus (MVN) to the middle zone of the flocculus in alert cats. 2. Bipolar stimulating electrodes were implanted into the middle zone of each flocculus, because this zone is known to be involved in the control of horizontal eye movements. Correct implantation of the stimulating electrodes was ensured by 1) recording of Purkinje cells whose activity was related to horizontal eye movements and 2) elicitation of slow abduction of the ipsilateral eye upon electrical stimulation. 3. The rostral two-thirds of the MVN were investigated by microelectrodes during stimulation of both flocculi. Antidromically activated neurons were found only in the central part of the explored area. Forty-four units were activated from the contralateral, eight from the ipsilateral flocculus. Neurons could never be activated from both flocculi. 4. Neurons included in this study were MVN neurons that had 1) to be antidromically activated from one flocculus and 2) to modulate their firing rate during the horizontal vestibuloocular reflex (VOR) elicited by sinusoidal stimulation (0.1 Hz; 10, 20, 30 or 40 degrees). The 39 neurons matching both criteria were classified in 2 groups: 22 neurons changed their firing rate during spontaneous horizontal eye movements (EM-neurons), 17 modulated their activity only during head rotation and were labeled vestibular-only neurons (VO-neurons). 5. Sufficient data were obtained from 13 EM-neurons to allow a quantitative analysis. Among those, 12 were activated from the contralateral and 1 from the ipsilateral flocculus. Their sensitivity to horizontal eye position during intersaccadic fixation was 3.54 +/- 2.75 (SD) spikes.s-1/deg. Eight EM-neurons behaved as type I neurons, five as type II neurons. During the slow phases of the VOR, all of these neurons combined some head-velocity sensitivity (1.50 +/- 0.43 spikes.s-1/deg.s-1) with some horizontal eye-position sensitivity (3.61 +/- 2.45 spikes.s-1/deg). Additionally, seven of these neurons presented a sensitivity to eye velocity (1.34 +/- 0.55 spikes.s-1/deg.s-1). The phase difference between the modulation of firing rate and eye position varied substantially between neurons. The observed phase lead with respect to eye position ranged from 2 to 110 degrees (41.9 +/- 31.8 degrees). 6. Sufficient data were obtained from 10 VO-neurons to allow a quantitative analysis. Among those, nine were activated from the contralateral and one from the ipsilateral flocculus. All of these neurons behaved as type I neurons. The sensitivity to head velocity was 1.64 +/- 1.07 spikes.s-1/deg.s-1. The phase lead of the modulation of spike activity with respect to head velocity ranged from 4.5 to 30.5 degrees (16.4 +/- 8.9 degrees). 7. We conclude that the MVN provides the horizontal zone of the flocculus (with a strong contralateral preference) with information about head velocity (through VO-neurons and EM-neurons) and about eye velocity and position (through EM-neurons).
1. Buffering of glutamate-induced Ca2+ loads in single rat hippocampal neurons grown in primary culture was studied with ratiometric fluorescent Ca2+ indicators. The hypothesis that mitochondria buffer the large Ca2+ loads elicited by glutamate was tested. 2. The relationship between glutamate concentration and the resulting increase in the free intracellular Ca2+ concentration ([Ca2+]i) reached an asymptote at 30 microM glutamate. This apparent ceiling was not a result of saturation of the Ca2+ indicator, because these results were obtained with the low-affinity (dissociation constant = 7 microM) Ca2+ indicator coumarin benzothiazole. 3. Five minutes of exposure to glutamate elicited concentration-dependent neuronal death detected 20-24 h later by the release of the cytosolic enzyme lactate dehydrogenase into the media. Maximal neurotoxicity was elicited at glutamate concentrations &gt; or = 300 microM. The discrepancy between the glutamate concentration required to evoke a maximal rise in [Ca2+]i and the higher concentration necessary elicit maximal Ca(2+)-triggered cell death suggests that large neurotoxic Ca2+ loads are in part removed to a noncytoplasmic pool. 4. Treatment of hippocampal neurons with the protonophore carbonyl cyanide p-(trifluoro-methoxy) phenylhydrazone (FCCP; 1 microM, 5 min) greatly increased the amplitude of glutamate-induced [Ca2+]i transients, although it had little effect on basal [Ca2+]i. The effect of FCCP was more pronounced on responses elicited by stimuli that produced large Ca2+ loads. Similar results were obtained by inhibition of electron transport with antimycin A1. Neither agent, under the conditions described here, significantly depressed cellular ATP levels as indicated by luciferase-based ATP measurements, consistent with the robust anaerobic metabolism of cultured cells. Thus inhibition of mitochondrial function disrupted the buffering of glutamate-induced Ca2+ loads in a manner that was not related to changes in ATP. 5. Removal of extracellular Na+ for 20 min before exposure to N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) (200 microM, 3 min), presumably reducing intracellular Na+, evoked a prolonged plateau phase in the recovery of the [Ca2+]i transient that resembled the mitochondrion-mediated [Ca2+]i plateau previously observed in sensory neurons. Return of extracellular Na+ immediately after exposure to NMDA increased the height and shortened the duration of the plateau phase. Thus manipulation of extracellular Na+ altered the plateau in a manner consistent with plateau height being modulated by intracellular Na+ levels. 6. In neurons depleted of Na+ and challenged with NMDA, a plateau resulted; during the plateau, application of FCCP in the absence of extracellular Ca2+ produced a large increase in [Ca2+]i. In contrast, similar treatment of cells that were not depleted of Na+ failed to increase [Ca2+]i. Thus Na+ depletion traps Ca2+ within an FCCP-sensitive intracellular store. 7. Glutamate-induced Ca2+ loads are sequestered by an intracellular store that had a low affinity and a high capacity for Ca2+, was released by FCCP, was sensitive to antimycin A1, and was modulated by intracellular Na+ levels. We conclude that mitochondria sequester glutamate-induced Ca2+ loads and suggest that Ca2+ entry into mitochondria may account for the poor correlation between glutamate-induced neurotoxicity and glutamate-induced changes in [Ca2+]i.
1. Spontaneous and evoked excitatory postsynaptic currents (EPSCs) were recorded in slices of the rat anteroventral cochlear nucleus (AVCN) at the endbulb-bushy cell synaptic connection. 2. The amplitudes of alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methy-4-isoxa-zolepropionic acid (AMPA)-receptor-mediated spontaneous EPSCs were large (54 +/- 6 pA, mean +/- SD; membrane potential = -70 mV, 22-25 degrees C) and, in the same cell, exhibited a very wide range of peak amplitudes (CM = 0.42 +/- 0.01, n - 15 cells). There was no significant correlation between rise times or decay time constants and the peak amplitudes of spontaneous EPSCs recorded in the same cell, demonstrating that electrotonic attenuation is not responsible for the large amplitude variability of spontaneous EPSCs. 3. Cyclothiazide, a potent blocker of AMPA-receptor desensitization, did not affect the amplitude of spontaneous EPSCs in AVCN bushy cells, suggesting that background desensitization of AMPA receptors is not significant in these cells. However, the decay time constant of spontaneous EPSCs was prolonged significantly (2.6-fold increase). In addition, cyclothiazide produced a marked increase (approximately 40%, n = 6 cells) in the frequency of spontaneous EPSCs, indicating a likely presynaptic site of action of this drug. 4. Cyclothiazide produced a small increase (approximately 10%, n = 7 cells) in the peak amplitude of the evoked endbulb EPSC, but this effect could be explained by the action of cyclothiazide to increase the decay time constant of the underlying quantal EPSCs in conjunction with the asynchrony of quantal transmitter release at the endbulb synapse. 5. These results indicate that neither electrotonic attenuation nor receptor desensitization are responsible for the wide range of peak amplitudes of spontaneous EPSCs in bushy cells. The large quantal variability therefore is likely to be due entirely to intrinsic fluctuations at each release site and site-to-site variability in the numbers of available receptors.
The neurotrophins brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) and neurotrophin-4/5 (NT4) act via the TrkB receptor and support survival of primary somatic and visceral sensory neurons. The major visceral sensory population, the nodose-petrosal ganglion complex (NPG), requires BDNF and NT4 for survival of a full complement of neurons, providing a unique opportunity to compare gene dosage effects between the two TrkB ligands and to explore the possibility that one ligand can compensate for loss of the other. Analysis of newborn transgenic mice lacking BDNF or NT4, or BDNF and NT4, revealed that survival of many NPG afferents is proportional to the number of functional BDNF alleles, whereas only one functional NT4 allele is required to support survival of all NT4-dependent neurons. In addition, subpopulation analysis revealed that BDNF and NT4 can compensate for the loss of the other to support a subset of dopaminergic ganglion cells. Together, these data demonstrate that the pattern of neuronal dependencies on BDNF and NT4 in vivo is far more heterogeneous than predicted from previous studies in culture. Moreover, BDNF knockout animals lack a subset of afferents involved in ventilatory control and exhibit severe respiratory abnormalities characterized by depressed and irregular breathing and reduced chemosensory drive. BDNF is therefore required for expression of normal respiratory behavior in newborn animals.
Distal to a peripheral nerve transection, myelin degradation and Schwann cell (SC) proliferation are accompanied by a marked upregulation of brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) and a decrease of ciliary neurotrophic factor (CNTF) in non-neuronal cells. To investigate the role of SC differentiation in trophic factor regulation, we studied BDNF and CNTF expression in sciatic nerves from Trembler-J (Tr-J) mice. In these animals, a mutation in the pmp-22 gene causes a failure of myelination and continuous SC proliferation, but axonal continuity is preserved. In spite of the severe abnormalities in Tr-J nerves, BDNF levels remained as low as in the intact controls. Thus, the primary SC disorder in Tr-J produces a different pattern of BDNF expression from that caused by axonal breakdown due to nerve transection. Furthermore, the upregulation of BDNF mRNA triggered by transection was 70-fold in control nerves, but only 30-fold in Tr-J sciatic nerves. Because these results raised the possibility that axonal loss may influence neurotrophin expression only in SCs that have differentiated toward a myelinating phenotype, we measured BDNF mRNA after axotomy in the cervical sympathetic trunk (CST), a predominantly unmyelinated autonomic nerve. In contrast to the sciatic nerves, the BDNF mRNA level barely increased in the injured CST, supporting the idea that not all SCs are equal sources of trophic molecules. In Tr-J sciatic nerves, CNTF mRNA levels were fourfold lower than normal, implying that the downregulation of this cytokine is a sensitive indicator of a spectrum of SC perturbations that affect myelinating cells.
The solution to matrix equations which describe branched neuron-like structures can be made more efficient by minimizing matrix banding. This can be accomplished through the reordering of the compartmental numbering system. The renumbering method presented here extends upon the numbering method of Hines ((1984) Int. J. Biomed. Comput., 15: 69-76). A demonstration of efficient numbering will be presented for several general cases of branching structures. Theoretical computational savings can be estimated for the above structures. An algorithm to renumber a matrix already in Hines form will be described. Branched nerve equations, electrical networks and chemical reaction models are examples of systems which can benefit from this application.
The aim of the present study was to examine the glial cell response and the possible involvement of the complement cascade following a cerebral cortical contusion. The lesion was produced using a standardized weight-drop technique in adult rats. The blood-brain barrier was damaged, as demonstrated by a decrease of immunoreactivity for a tight junction protein normally expressed by endothelial cells of small vessels in the central nervous system. Increased immunoreactivity for microglial (OX42) and astroglial cells (glial fibrillary acidic protein), as well as macrophages expressing ED1-immunoreactivity (IR) were found in the vicinity of the lesion at all postoperative survival times (2-14 days). In the present study complement factor C3d- and C9-IR was found around the lesion, indicating that activation of the complement cascade had taken place. Furthermore, immunoreactivity for the putative complement inhibitor clusterin (sulfated glycoprotein-2) was found in some of the injured neurons. The contralateral hemisphere showed no evidence of the reaction found in the ipsilateral hemisphere. The balance between complement activation and complement inhibitors may have an impact on the degenerative components in the brain following traumatic injury and in particular on the events leading to nerve cell death.
The results of a retrospective study of 24 adult patients with occult dysraphism are described. There were 15 males and 9 females, with an average age of 31.1 years. Specific circumstances precipitated symptomatic onset in 67% of patients. Pain, often referred to the anorectal region, was the most common presenting symptom. Bladder and bowel dysfunction were also common findings. The most common tethering lesions were intradural lipoma and a short thickened filum terminale. Myelography revealed the diagnosis of tethered conus in most cases, but the addition of CT and MRI images provided valuable structural details. The surgical outcome was gratifying in relation to pain and sensory-motor deficits but disappointing in the resolution of sphincter disorders. Our conclusion is that symptoms and/or signs of TCS with onset in adult life are not invariably irreversible.
1. In adult decerebrate spinal rats whose plantar nerves (PLN) had been transected at either postnatal day 1 (P1) or P21 the nociceptive withdrawal reflexes (NWR) of musculi extensor digitorum longus (EDL), peroneus longus (PER) and semitendinosus (ST) were characterized with respect to receptive field (RF) organization, magnitude and time course, using electromyography. Thermal (short CO2 laser pulses) and mechanical (calibrated pinch) stimulation were used. The innervation patterns in normal and lesioned adult rats were assessed by acute nerve lesions. 2. The spatial organization of the mean mechano- and thermonociceptive RFs of all the muscles studied was similar to normal in both P1- and P21-lesioned rats, although in some P21-lesioned rats atypical EDL RFs were encountered. 3. In P1-lesioned rats thermo-NWR of PER and EDL had normal magnitudes, while mechano-NWR were reduced. In P21-lesioned rats both thermo- and mechano-NWR of these muscles had reduced magnitudes. Except for thermo-NWR of ST in P1-lesioned rats, which were increased, NWR of ST had normal magnitudes in both P1- and P21-lesioned rats. The time course of thermonociceptive NWR of the muscles studied were near normal in both P1- and P21-lesioned rats. 4. Acute nerve lesions in adult P1-lesioned rats revealed an essentially abolished contribution to NWR from the PLN. Instead, the contribution to NWR from other hindpaw nerves, such as the superficial and deep peroneal nerves, was dramatically increased. By contrast, in P21-lesioned rats, the regenerated PLN contributed significantly to the NWR. 5. It is concluded that despite profound alterations of plantar hindpaw innervation induced by early PLN transection the cutaneous nociceptive input to NWR attained an essentially normal spatial organization. An experience-dependent mechanism is suggested to be instrumental in adapting the reflex connectivity to the peripheral innervation.
In this report the authors discuss the unique case of a 19-year-old pregnant victim of a motor vehicle crash, who did not have significant injuries but in whom a fracture of the fetal skull was diagnosed. Several traumatic intrauterine fetal skull fractures have been reported over the last 100 years. In the vast majority of episodes, severe maternal trauma involving fractures of the pelvis has been causally related to the injured infant. There has not been a previous report of a motor-vehicle-associated fetal skull fracture in the absence of maternal injury with dual good outcomes. After cesarean section necessitated by fetal distress, both the baby and the mother made an excellent recovery. This case underscores the importance of a thorough examination of every pregnant trauma victim and her infant, even when there are no detectable maternal injuries.
Monoclonal antibodies (mAbs) N.03 and N.08 that recognize conformational epitopes on the prM protein of Japanese encephalitis virus (JEV) were analyzed to identify their peptide ligands by using a novel approach that combined two different synthetic peptide libraries. Immunoscreening of a library containing 20(5) sequences of pentapeptides revealed that the ligands for N.03 and N.08 had motif sequences, (Y/W/F)GG(I/L/M) and (N/Q)WY(D/E), respectively. To select higher-affinity ligands, we synthesized and screened another type of library with 20 peptide mixtures that were based on the identified motif, where only one amino acid position was defined; and the process was reiterated for the remaining undefined positions. Consequently, the peptides YGGIYMNG and QWYDDR were identified as peptide ligands of N.03 and N.08, respectively. These peptides bound specifically to the antigen-combining sites of the mAbs as confirmed by competitive binding assays. Mouse antisera directed against the peptide YGGIYMNG specifically recognized JEV, while those against QWYDDR did not. These data demonstrated that peptide ligands which reproduce or mimic the immunogenicity as well as the antigenicity of conformational epitopes can be at least partly identified using this approach. This approach may be useful for analyzing conformational epitopes, which are generally difficult to characterize, and might provide a step toward vaccine development when applied to protective mAbs.
The inward rectification of the inward rectifier K+ channels has been reported to be caused by both the block of the outward current by cytoplasmic Mg2+ and by intrinsic channel gating. Recently it was uncovered that the apparent intrinsic gating is mostly due to a block by cytoplasmic polyamines which is actually extrinsic to the channel. Furthermore, negatively charged amino-acid residues in the center of the M2 region and in the C-terminal hydrophilic domain were identified to be involved in the binding of these blockers to the channels. The inward rectifier shows consistent inward rectification at various extracellular K+ concentrations ([K+]o). To explain the dependency of the channel activity on Ko+, the hypothesis that Ko+ interacts with the inward rectifier K+ channel and thereby activates it (K(+)-activated K+ channel model) has been postulated. In this manuscript, the history and recent progresses of the study of the inward rectification mechanism, especially the effect of the cytoplasmic blockers and Ko+, is reviewed.
We have demonstrated that microglia produce certain secretory proteases which have been found to be important determinants of microglial properties, in surrounding cells and regenerative processes. In recent years, it has become clear that secretory proteases, particularly PGn-PA (plasminogen-plasminogen activator) system, work not only on catalysis of proteins in the extracellular space but also on cell growth, cell function, differentiation, proliferation and remodeling. These diverse effects may be derived from the unique structures of these enzymes, including their accessary domains. In particular, kringle domains have been shown to be important for interactions with other proteins. The results of these studies indicate that microglial secretory proteases participate to a great extent in physiological processes involving the regulation of neuronal growth, neuronal function and regenerative stages in the CNS.
Long-term depression (LTD) of synaptic efficacy at CA1 synapses is believed to be a Ca(2+)-dependent process. We used high-speed fluorescence imaging and patch-clamp techniques to quantify the spatial distribution of changes in intracellular Ca2+ accompanying the induction of LTD at Schaffer collateral synapses in CA1 pyramidal neurons. Low-frequency stimulation (3 Hz), which was subthreshold for action potentials, produced small changes in [Ca2+]i and failed to elicit LTD. Increasing the stimulus strength so that action potentials were generated produced both robust LTD and increases in [Ca2+]i. Back-propagating action potentials at 3 Hz in the absence of synaptic stimulation also produced increases in [Ca2+]i, but failed to induce LTD. When subthreshold synaptic stimulation was paired with back-propagating action potentials, however, large increases in [Ca2+]i were observed and robust LTD was induced. The LTD was blocked by the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor (NMDAr) antagonist APV, and stimulus-induced increases in [Ca2+]i were reduced throughout the neuron under these conditions. The LTD was also dependent on Ca2+ influx via voltage-gated Ca2+ channels (VGCCs), because LTD was severely attenuated or blocked by both nimodipine and Ni2+. These findings suggest that back-propagating action potentials can exert a powerful control over the induction of LTD and that both VGCCs and NMDArs are involved in the induction of this form of plasticity.
Activity-dependent changes in synaptic strength, such as long-term potentiation (LTP), have been proposed to underlie memory storage in the brains of all mammals, including humans. However, most forms of synaptic plasticity, including LTP, are studied almost exclusively in rodents and related species. Thus, the hypothesis that LTP is important in human memory relies on the assumption that LTP is similar in the primate and rodent brains. We have begun to test this hypothesis by studying the properties and mechanisms of LTP induction in area CA3 of hippocampal slices from cynomolgus monkeys. We have found that LTP can be induced reliably at both mossy fiber-CA3 and collateral/associational-CA3 synapses in the primate brain, and that the properties of LTP induction at these synapses are similar to what we and others have observed in experiments using hippocampal slices from rodents. Also, we have investigated the role of opioids in mossy fiber synaptic transmission and LTP and have found no effect of the opioid antagonist naloxone nor the opioid agonist dynorphin on mossy fiber synaptic transmission or potentiation. These data suggest that LTP in the primate and rat brains has a similar induction mechanism and, thus, that the rodent is a useful animal model in which to study synaptic modification such as LTP.

In the PC12 neuroendocrine line, the neuronal nicotinic acetylcholine receptor alpha3 gene promoter is activated by SCIP/Tst-1/Oct-6, a POU domain transcription factor proposed to be important for regulating the development of specific neural cell populations. In this study, we have investigated the SCIP polypeptide domains involved in alpha3 promoter activation. The characteristics of activation by a chimeric effector in which the GAL4 DNA binding domain was substituted for the SCIP POU domain were dramatically different from those of wild-type SCIP. At low effector masses, the chimeric polypeptide weakly activated alpha3 in a GAL4 binding-site-dependent manner but then squelched transcription at higher masses. In contrast, wild-type SCIP activation was not modulated by the presence of multimerized SCIP binding sites, and squelching was not observed. Analysis of wild-type SCIP truncations revealed that deletion of the previously characterized SCIP amino-terminal activation domain did not destroy activity of the factor. Surprisingly, a truncation expressing nothing more than the POU domain was nearly as active as wild-type SCIP. Moreover, cotransfection of a GAL4-VP16 effector with an effector expressing just the SCIP POU domain resulted in synergistic activation of the promoter. Synergistic activation did not depend on an Sp1 motif that is the only functional alpha3 cis element outside the transcription start site region. Our results show that the DNA binding domain of a POU factor is capable of transcriptional activation probably through protein-protein interactions with components of the basal transcription complex.
The expression of the neurofilament protein of the highest molecular weight (NF-H) is developmentally and spatially regulated. For example, the MAb RMO24.9, directed against a phosphorylated epitope in the tail domain of NF-H, immunohistochemically labels specific tracts within the rat brainstem prenatally, but does not label diencephalic tracts until after postnatal day 10 (P10). A diet providing 300 mg/kg/d Al (as Al lactate) to rat dams throughout gestation causes behavioral deficits in their offspring (Bernuzzi et al., 1989). We repeated this regimen by substituting 120 mM Al lactate (pH 6.5) for drinking water during gestation and lactation, and examined the distribution of immunolabeling by RMO 24.9 after exposure to Al. Tracts within the diencephalon that bind RMO 24.9 on P11 in control pups did not bind the MAb until P14 in Al-treated pups. In these preliminary experiments, Al seemed to have caused a developmental delay in the expression of phosphorylated NF-H in the pups of mothers that received Al during gestation. However, subsequent experiments showed that the neuropathology observed--and that reported by other investigators using similar Al levels--may not be the result of the direct effects of Al on the pups. Throughout lactation, treated dams appeared progressively more cachexic. Unlike the normal viscera of pair-watered controls, the stomachs of treated dams were ulcerated, and their kidneys had decreased cortical thickness and contained stones. Lesions such as these compromise a rat's ability to absorb nutrients, to excrete toxins, and to regulate water and electrolytes. In a lactating dam, these alterations could compromise the dam's ability to nourish her pups. Our experiments point out that the mechanisms of Al toxicity-- already complex in the adult--are further complicated in a system in which the pup is dependent on the mother for delivery of both nutrients and toxins. It is therefore impossible to determine the cause of any neuropathology in the pup in a system where Al delivery overlies a background of multisystem defect and altered maternal homeostasis.

Tremor can be particularly disabling in patients with multiple sclerosis (MS) and is mildly improved by drug treatment. The efficiency of stereotactic thalamotomy has been reported in a small number of patients but was counterbalanced by severe postoperative complications. Stimulation of the thalamic ventral intermediate nucleus, which is a less aggressive surgical method, is efficient in essential and in parkinsonian tremors. We report here the results of thalamic stimulation in 13 patients with MS with tremor. All patients were subjected to clinical examination, videorecording, and quantification of the functional disability before surgery and 3 months postoperatively. The surgical intervention was well tolerated in all cases. A clear improvement of the tremor was observed in 69.2% of the patients. Functional improvement was more varied and depended on the severity of tremor and coexistence of other neurological symptoms. Of the eight most severely affected patients, seven recovered the possibility to easily catch an object and use it. The results indicate that thalamic stimulation may be useful in the treatment of severe postural cerebellar tremor in MS.

Peripheral nerve injury and neuronal degeneration resulting from toxic ricin induce activation of the classical pathway of complement close to the injured motorneuron perikarya or sensory terminals. In contrast, degeneration of central myelinated fibers is not accompanied by complement expression. The main source of complement in peripheral nerve injury and toxic ricin degeneration appears to be microglia. Brain contusion is associated with complement activation. Some of the complement in this situation may derive from plasma, because the blood-brain barrier is disrupted. Clusterin expression is increased in astrocytes along with their activation in the vicinity of lesioned neurons. In addition, axotomized motorneurons show a marked clusterin upregulation. A relationship between clusterin and cell death is suggested by the prominent aggregation of clusterin in neuronal perikarya destroyed by the effects of toxic ricin, as well as by the neosynthesis of clusterin in apparently degenerating nonneuronal cells, presumed to be oligodendrocytes. Our findings indicate that the expression of complement and clusterin are prominent features of neural degeneration and regeneration, as it is in Alzheimer's disease brains as well. The nerve injury conditions described, therefore, offer attractive experimental models to elucidate the roles of these molecular components in neurodegenerative disorders, thereby providing useful insights into potentially new therapeutic approaches in these conditions.
A variety of inflammatory mediators including complement activation products, protease inhibitors, and cytokines are colocalized with beta-amyloid (A beta) deposits in the Alzeimer's disease (AD) brain. Activation products of the early complement components C1, C4, and C3 are always found in neuritic plaques and to a lesser extent in varying numbers of diffuse plaques. In contrast to these findings, no immunohistochemical evidence was obtained for the presence of the late complement components C7 and C9 and the complement membrane attack complex in the neuropathological lesions in AD brains. The mRNA encoding the late complement components C7 and C9 appears to be hardly or not detectable. These findings indicate that in AD the complement system does not act as an inflammatory mediator through membrane attack complex formation, but through the actions of the early complement products. In this review we focus on the role of complement in the pathological amyloid cascade in AD. In our opinion, the early complement activation products play a crucial role as mediators between the A beta deposits and the inflammatory responses leading to neurotoxicity.
The present experiments were concerned with the examination of the hypothesis that a deficiency in calpastatin, the endogenous inhibitor of calpain, enhances learning and memory performance. In the first experiment we used rats with an altered calpain/calpastatin balance (Milan hypertensive strain, MHS, low calpastatin) to investigate the learning and memory of a spatial task in the Morris water maze in comparison with control rats with a normal calpain/calpastatin balance (Milan normotensive strain, MNS). Since the two strains also differ in blood pressure, a third strain of rats was included to assess the role of hypertension (spontaneously hypertensive rats, SHR). Although the acquisition rate of the spatial task was better in the low-calpastatin MHS rats than in their normal-calpastatin MNS controls, their performance was similar to that of the SHR rats, thus thwarting the conclusion that differences were due to the low level of calpastatin. The availability of another mutant strain, low-calpastatin level and normotensive (MH.NE), allowed a further examination of the hypothesis. In the second experiment rats of the MH.NE strain acquired the spatial task as well as their normotensive controls, but their memory retrieval was clearly less than that of their normal-calpastatin controls. This deficiency was not due to impaired visual function or a slower swimming speed. The conclusion is that an inbalanced calpain/calpastatin ratio, although favoring calpain activity, is disadvantageous for remembering a spatial task. This disadvantage is clearly overruled when this inbalance is accompanied by hypertension.
It has generally been assumed that new synapses added to various brain regions in response to experience are equivalent to those already in existence. Theorists have recently posited that synaptic configurations involving multiple associated contacts may facilitate plastic change. The number of multiple-headed dendritic spines on medium-sized spiny neurons in the rat dorsolateral corpus striatum was determined following rearing in environments differing in complexity. Postweaning rats were either housed as a group in a toy- and object-filled environment or housed individually in standard laboratory cages for 30 days. Dendritic segments of Golgi-Cox impregnated Type I spiny neurons of the complex environment housed rats had approximately 60% more multiple-head spines than those of the individually caged animals. Multiple-head spines may reflect parallel synaptic contacts that modify relative strengths of existing connections or connections with a novel presynaptic terminal that alter the neuron's pattern of connections.

In this review a case is presented for the use of mathematical modelling in the study of pain. The philosophy of mathematical modelling is outlined and a recommendation is made for the use of modern nonlinear techniques and computational neuroscience in the modelling of pain. Classic and more recent examples of modelling in neurobiology in general and pain in particular, at three different levels-molecular, cellular and neural networks-are described and evaluated. Directions for further progress are indicated, particularly in plasticity and in modelling brain mechanisms. Major advantages of mathematical modelling are that it can handle extremely complex theories and it is non-invasive, and so is particularly valuable in the investigation of chronic pain.
Gene expression has been studied in post-mortem frontal cortex samples from patients who had suffered from schizophrenia and depressive illness. mRNA was extracted and characterised by translation and separation of the products by 2D gel electrophoresis. Post-mortem artefacts and the agonal experience did not affect the size distribution or amount of specific translation products. Four expression products were specifically reduced in samples from schizophrenics compared with normals. The expression of six products was altered in affective disorder, one in common with schizophrenia, two the same as in schizophrenia but increased. cDNA libraries were produced from the mRNA samples and 5 clones present at abnormal levels in schizophrenia identified by differential screening, isolated and sequenced. All the sequences encode mitochondrial transcripts; four encode mitochondrial rRNA and one the amino acid sequence of cytochrome oxidase sub-unit II. Increased cytochrome oxidase transcripts were found in a further set of mRNA extracts from schizophrenic patients including two who had not received neuroleptic medication. The effects of neuroleptic administration as exemplified by alpha-flupenthixol compared with the ineffective beta-flupenthixol were studied in experimental animals. It was found that 13 out of 28 clones whose levels were altered were mitochondrial in origin including rRNA, COX I &amp; II and the NADH-Q reductase. Those encoding respiratory enzymes were at abnormally low levels as a result of alpha-flupenthixol administration. Measurements of the enzymic activity of cytochrome c oxidase in post-mortem frontal cortex of schizophrenics did not indicate any differences in overall activity but there was a decreased sensitivity to azide that was abolished by neuroleptics. Studies on NADH-cytochrome c reductase showed that schizophrenics whether medicated or not had a reduced rotenone sensitive activity that was compensated for by increased rotenone insensitive activity. We conclude that changes in mitochondrial gene expression are involved in schizophrenia and probably other functional psychoses.

Parkinsonism-dementia complex (PDC), a neurodegenerative disorder in the Chamorro, Guam population, has been epidemiologically ascribed to the ingestion of the neurotoxin cycasin. This disease is characterized neuropathologically by the presence of abundant neurofibrillary tangles (NFTs). We analyzed a genetic risk factor of Alzheimer's disease (AD), apolipoprotein E, hypothesized to be linked to NFT formation, and a genetic risk factor of Parkinson's disease (PD), CYP2D6 mutation, linked to slower metabolism of exogenous toxins, in Chamorro, Guam individuals with and without PDC. The representation of the G-to-C mutation in exon 9 of the CYP2D6 gene was higher in Chamorro and Filipino than in Caucasian individuals, but this mutant allele had similar high frequencies in both PDC patients and healthy Chamorro individuals. We found no alleles of these genes associated with AD or PD to be overrepresented among those with PDC.
A 1-year, double-blind, placebo-controlled, randomized, parallel-group study compared the efficacy and safety of acetyl-L-carnitine hydrochloride (ALCAR) with placebo in patients with probable Alzheimer's disease (AD). Subjects with mild to moderate probable AD, aged 50 or older, were treated with 3 g/day of ALCAR or placebo (1 g tid) for 12 months. Four hundred thirty-one patients entered the study, and 83% completed 1 year of treatment. The Alzheimer's Disease Assessment Scale cognitive component and the Clinical Dementia Rating Scale were the primary outcome measures. Overall, both ALCAR- and placebo-treated patients declined at the same rate on all primary and most secondary measures during the trial. In a subanalysis by age that compared early-onset patients (aged 65 years or younger at study entry) with late-onset patients (older than 66 at study entry), we found a trend for early-onset patients on ALCAR to decline more slowly than early-onset AD patients on placebo on both primary endpoints. In addition, early-onset patients tended to decline more rapidly than older patients in the placebo groups. Conversely, late-onset AD patients on ALCAR tended to progress more rapidly than similarly treated early-onset patients. The drug was very well tolerated during the trial. The study suggests that a subgroup of AD patients aged 65 or younger may benefit from treatment with ALCAR whereas older individuals might do more poorly. However, these preliminary findings are based on past hoc analyses. A prospective trial of ALCAR in younger patients is underway to test the hypothesis that young, rapidly progressing subjects will benefit from ALCAR treatment.
Synthesis of new protein has been shown to be required for establishment of a late phase in hippocampal long-term potentiation. Whether a similar requirement is needed to produce the late phase of long-term depression (LTD) remains to be determined. Application of transcription inhibitors or of the translation inhibitor anisomycin, immediately, but not 30 min after glutamate/depolarization conjunction, attenuated a late phase of cerebellar LTD in culture. LTD, produced in a perforated outside-out macropatch of Purkinje neuron dendrite, which lacks nuclear material, returned to baseline values with a time course paralleling that observed with protein synthesis inhibitors in intact cultured Purkinje neurons. These findings suggest that there is a distinct late phase of cerebellar LTD that is dependent upon postsynaptic protein synthesis.

This study examined time perception in 12 patients with cerebellar degeneration (CD) and in 13 normal controls (NC). We used a time bisection procedure with four interval conditions (100-900 msec; 8-32 sec; 100-600 msec; 100-325 msec). Each subject's bisection point, discrimination ability (the Weber ratio) and precision (the inverse of the proportion of unexplained variance) was calculated for each condition. CD patients' performance on the 100-900 msec time bisection condition suggested a possible time discrimination deficit, which was confirmed with intervals in the range of 100-600 msec. Time discrimination was normal on the 100-325 msec condition and impaired on the 8-32 sec bisection task. However, when discriminating long intervals, CD patients also showed a precision deficit, which points to impaired sustained attention and/or decision processes. Our findings corroborate the view that cerebellar timing processes are not limited to the motor system but are also used in perceptual computations.
This study examined whether the neuronal and extraneuronal sites of action of two monoamine oxidase (MAO) inhibitors, l-deprenyl and debrisoquin, could be distinguished by their effects on plasma concentrations of catecholamine metabolites. Plasma concentrations of the intraneuronal deaminated metabolite of norepinephrine, dihydroxyphenylglycol (DHPG), were decreased by 77% after debrisoquin and by 64% after l-deprenyl administration. Plasma concentrations of the extraneuronal O-methylated metabolite of norepinephrine, normetanephrine, were increased substantially more during treatment with l-deprenyl than with debrisoquin (255% compared to a 27% increase). The comparable decreases in plasma concentrations of DHPG indicate a similar inhibition of intraneuronal MAO by both drugs. Much larger increases in normetanephrine after l-deprenyl than after debrisoquin are consistent with a site of action of the latter drug directed at the neuronal rather than the extraneuronal compartment. Thus, differential changes in deaminated and O-methylated amine metabolites allows identification of neuronal and extraneuronal sites of action of MAO inhibitors.
One of the central questions in neuroscience concerns the basic code for information processing in the brain. Much experimental evidence and theoretical consideration have suggested that single-neuron coding is no longer a tenable hypothesis. The present review explains why population neuronal coding is valid and discusses how it is carried out in the brain. The main context is experimental access to real features of the coding in working brains as deduced from experimental research. Several recent studies recording neuronal activities from behaving animals have shown that ensemble activity of neurons represents specific information, indicating the reality of population coding by many neurons. The key concept which can integrate the experimental evidence is the 'cell assembly', i.e., overlapped populations of neurons with flexible functional connections within and among the populations. Correlated activity among the neurons constructs the functional connection. In order to see features of the cell-assembly coding, two main properties of cell assemblies in processing several different kinds of information must be investigated, that is, the overlapping of neurons and the dynamics of synaptic connections. This manner of coding can provide both the experimental and theoretical framework to detect the real dynamic features of information processing by the brain.
The aim of this investigation was to evaluate the role played by cyclic nucleotides in the transduction of inflammatory pain and hyperalgesia. Unmyelinated afferents (n = 79) were exposed to stable analogues of cyclic AMP and cyclic GMP, to inflammatory mediators and to Methylene Blue, an inhibitor of guanylyl cyclase. Analogues of cyclic AMP at a concentration of 1 mM (n = 9) but not 10 microM (n = 16) sensitized nociceptor responses to noxious heat and enhanced interstimulus activity. In addition. mechanical thresholds were moderately, but significantly lowered after superfusion of the cyclic AMP analogue (1 mM). Addition of 10 microM cyclic AMP analogue to a mixture of excitatory inflammatory mediators (serotonin, histamine, bradykinin and prostaglandin E2, 10 microM each) did not further increase nociceptor activity (n = 15), in contrast to a previous report that cAMP sensitized bradykinin responses. Cyclic GMP analogues (10 microM, 1 mM) did not alter heat sensitivity or mechanical thresholds of polymodal C-fibres, nor did they enhance the ongoing activity that resulted from repeated heat stimulation. After inhibition of guanylyl cyclase with Methylene Blue, cyclic GMP analogues (1-10 microM) did not alter nociceptor responses evoked by application of the mixture of inflammatory mediators. The findings indicate that polymodal nociceptor sensitization and excitation is independent of cyclic GMP. Cyclic AMP can obviously contribute to the increased heat sensitivity of inflamed tissue, whereas cyclic GMP might be of importance in the recruitment of &quot;silent&quot; nociceptors.
Dendritic cells of the rat were studied immunohistochemically with MRC OX62 monoclonal antibody and using electron microscopy. In normal CNS, a small number of OX62+ cells was detected in the choroid plexus and meninges. These cells were absent from other CNS and peripheral nervous system sites studied. Dendritic cells were also studied in two models of immune-mediated inflammatory conditions in the CNS. These were: acute experimental allergic encephalomyelitis and aberrant delayed-type hypersensitivity lesions induced as a response to heat-killed bacillus Calmette-Gurin sequestrated behind the blood-brain barrier. In addition, a group of animals with a delayed-type hypersensitivity response was treated with dexamethasone to assess the effect of steroid treatment on T-cells and OX62+ cells in CNS lesions. Dendritic cells were present in many but not all lesions in acute experimental allergic encephalomyelitis and their numbers were small. In experimental allergic encephalomyelitis lesions, dendritic cells were found predominantly in perivascular cuffs, where they constituted approximately 2% of the total number of major histocompatibility complex class II+ cells. Some of these cells were also detected in the CNS parenchyma, close to the perivascular cuff. In contrast, dendritic cells were present in all delayed-type hypersensitivity lesions studied. Their number in delayed-type hypersensitivity lesions was significantly higher than in experimental allergic encephalomyelitis lesions. Numerous OX62+ cells were found, even in three-month-old lesions. Electron microscopy studies revealed that these cells were often in close contact with lymphocytes. There was no significant change in the density of OX62+ cells, IL2R+ cells and OX19+ T-cells in delayed-type hypersensitivity lesions after seven-day treatment with dexamethasone, although there was a considerable reduction in the number of CD45RA+ T-cells. The high numbers of dendritic cells found in the delayed-type hypersensitivity lesions may be important in contributing to the chronicity of the response. They may also initiate autoimmune responses to CNS antigens uncovered during bystander tissue damage which occurs as a consequence of aberrant delayed-type hypersensitivity responses.
Transplantation of embryonic neurons to the adult mammalian central nervous system (CNS) offers the possibility of re-establishing neural functions lost after traumatic injuries or neurodegenerative disease. In the adult CNS, however, transplanted neurons and their growing neurites can become confined to the graft region, and there may also be a relative paucity of afferents innervating grafted neurons. Because glia may influence the development and regeneration of CNS neurons, the present study has characterized the distribution of astrocytes and developmentally regulated glycoconjugates (chondroitin-6-sulfate proteoglycan and tenascin) within regions of the embryonic mouse CNS used as donor tissues, and in and around these grafts to the adult striatum and substantia nigra. Both chondroitin-6-sulfate proteoglycan and tenascin are present in the embryonic ventral mesencephalon (in association with radial glia and their endfeet, and glial boundaries that cordon off the ventral mesencephalon dopamine neuron migratory zone) and lateral ganglionic eminence before transplantation, and they are conserved within grafts of these tissues to the adult mouse. Neostriatal grafts exhibit a heterogeneous pattern of astrocyte and extracellular matrix molecule distribution, unlike ventral mesencephalon grafts, which are rather homogeneous. There is evidence to suggest that, in addition to variation in astroglial/extracellular matrix immunostaining within different compartments in striatal grafts to either adult striatum or substantia nigra, there are also boundaries between these compartments that are rich in glial fibrillary acidic protein/extracellular matrix components. Substantia nigra grafts, with cells immunoreactive for tyrosine hydroxylase, are also rich in immature astroglia (RC-2-immunopositive), and as the astroglia mature (to glial fibrillary acidic protein-positive) over time the expression of chondroitin-6-sulfate proteoglycan and tenascin is also reduced. These same extracellular matrix constituents, however, are only slightly up-regulated in an area of the adult host which surrounds the grafted tissue. Glial scar components exhibit no obvious differences between grafts from different sources to homotopic (e.g., striatum to striatum) or heterotopic (e.g., substantia nigra to striatum) sites, and likewise grafts of non-synaptically associated structures (e.g., cerebellum to striatum), needle lesions or vehicle injections all yield astroglial/extracellular matrix scars in the host that are indistinguishable. Studies utilizing the ROSA-26 transgenic (beta-galactosidase-positive) mouse as a host for non-5-bromo-4-chloro-3-indolyl-beta-d-galactopyranoside-labeled grafts indicate that the early astroglial/extracellular matrix response to the graft is derived from the surrounding host structures. Furthermore, biochemical analysis of one of the &quot;boundary molecules&quot;, tenascin, from the developing ventral mesencephalon versus adult striatal lesions, suggests that different forms of the molecule predominate in the embryonic versus lesioned adult brain. Such differences in the nature and distribution of astroglia and developmentally regulated extracellular matrix molecules between donor and host regions may affect the growth and differentiation of transplanted neurons. The present study suggests that transplanted neurons and their processes may flourish within graft versus host regions, in part due to a confining glial scar, but also because the extracellular milieu within the graft site remains more representative of the developmental environment from which the donor neurons were obtained [Gates M. A., et al. (1994) Soc. Neurosci. Abstr. 20, 471].
Olfactory neuroblastoma is a rare malignancy of the olfactory mucosa that may be derived from the olfactory epithelium. To characterize this tumor, we cultured olfactory neuroblastoma cells in the presence or absence of growth factors (transforming growth factor alpha and basic fibroblast growth factor) known to affect olfactory tissue and assessed their responsiveness to known odorants by measuring changes in intracellular calcium. Untreated cells did not respond to odorants. Basic fibroblast growth factor treatment had cytotoxic effects, and treated cells did not respond to odorants. Transforming growth factor alpha treatment resulted in the induction of odor responsiveness in these cells. Cells responded to odorants at 100 nM to 100 microM concentrations and responded with both increases and decreases in intracellular calcium. Increases in intracellular calcium were mediated by a calcium influx and were reversibly blocked by compounds known to inhibit second messenger pathways in olfactory receptor neurons. The calcium responses of the olfactory neuroblastoma cells were thus specific to the odorants and similar to those found in olfactory receptor neurons. The results support the notion that olfactory neuroblastoma cells may be of olfactory origin and thus they can be used as a model cell line to study human olfaction.
Activated Schwann cells such as those in the distal stump of a cut peripheral nerve, or those cultured in vitro, develop a molecular phenotype very different from that of quiescent Schwann cells, and express high levels of the transcription factor c-jun. We studied the expression of c-jun messenger RNA, by in situ hybridization, and Jun-like immunoreactivity of Schwann cells in segments of peripheral nerve, or in cell suspensions grafted into the adult rat brain. Schwann cells rapidly lost their Jun immuno-positivity, and down-regulated expression of c-jun messenger RNA once implanted into the brain, and only the Schwann cells contained in the portion of peripheral nerve which remained outside the brain maintained Jun-like immunopositivity. c-jun messenger RNA was also down-regulated in the grafts, but more slowly than the protein; however, a proximodistal gradient in the level of expression of c-jun messenger RNA along the graft, comparable to that found for Jun immunoreactivity, was not detected. Schwann cells transplanted into the lesioned central nervous system promote regeneration of some injured central nervous system axons, but this regenerative response is always much more limited than peripheral nervous system regeneration. We suggest a correlation between the limited regeneration of central nervous system axons into peripheral nerve grafts and the loss of c-jun expression in Schwann cells following exposure to the central nervous system environment.
Rats treated systemically with kainate develop stereotyped epileptic seizures involving mainly limbic structures that may last for hours. This model of limbic status epilepticus has been widely studied using classical neuropathological techniques. We used in situ nick translation histochemistry to examine patterns of DNA fragmentation in this model. We found a stereotyped and reproducible pattern of neuronal populations that demonstrate evidence of DNA fragmentation from 24 h to one week after kainate treatment. Neither blockade of new protein synthesis nor blockade of the N-methyl-D-aspartate-type glutamate receptors significantly altered this response. Moreover, we saw no evidence of the regular internucleosomal cleavage of DNA that produces a characteristic laddered appearance of 180-200 bp DNA fragments after gel electrophoresis in samples obtained from microdissected affected regions. These studies suggest that DNA fragmentation after systemic kainate-induced seizures is not the result of programmed cell death. This assay may be useful for quantitative testing of both neuroprotective agents and mechanistic hypotheses.
Neurotrophic effects of estradiol and insulin-like growth factor-I were assessed in primary cultures from fetal rat hypothalamus. Cultured neurons were immunostained with an antibody for the microtubule-associated protein-2. While both estradiol and insulin-like growth factor-I increased the number of microtubule-associated protein-2-immunoreactive neurons and the extension of immunoreactive processes, the effect of these two factors was not additive. The estradiol-induced increases in neuronal numbers and extension of neuronal processes were blocked by either the estrogen receptor antagonist ICI 182,780 or by an anti-sense oligonucleotide to the estrogen receptor. Furthermore, incubation of the cultures with an anti-sense oligonucleotide directed against the insulin-like growth factor-I messenger RNA also blocked the effect of estradiol. In turn, the effects of insulin-like growth factor-I were blocked by the estrogen receptor antagonist ICI 182,780 and by the anti-sense oligonucleotide to the estrogen receptor. These findings suggest that estradiol-induced activation of the estrogen receptor in developing hypothalamic cells requires the presence of insulin-like growth factor-I, and that both estradiol and insulin-like growth factor-I use the estrogen receptor as a mediator of their trophic effects on hypothalamic neurons.
Mammalian brains contain a cde2-like protein kinase which is a heterodimer of cyclin-dependent kinase 5 (Cdk5) and a brain-specific regulatory subunit with a molecular weight of 35,000. In this study, we examined the temporal and spatial expression patterns of p35nck5a in the developing rat brain. Northern blot analysis showed that p35nck5a messenger RNA expression was low in the brain of 12-day postcoitum rats, and increased to a much higher level from 18 days postcoitum to two weeks after birth, and then declined at three weeks after birth. These developmental changes in p35nck5a expression correlated with the changes in Cdk5-associated kinase activity during brain development. These data suggest that p35nck5a is the specific activator for Cdk5 in the brain. Immunohistochemical and in situ hybridization studies demonstrated the presence of p35nck5a protein in postmitotic neurons but not in glial cells at all stages of brain development, indicating that p35nck5a is a neuron-specific protein. In the adult brain, the protein was rich in cell bodies and dendrites, and only very low amounts were detected in axons. In fetal and neonatal brains, however, axonal pathways such as the corpus callosum and external capsule were also stained with anti-p35nck5a antibody. Our findings suggest that p35nck5a is neuron specific, and a specific activator for Cdk5, and the subcellular localization of the two is strictly regulated depending on brain development. Neuronal Cdc2-like kinase may play key roles in neuronal maturation, synaptic formation, and neuronal plasticity.
We have established and characterized a cell line (designated Cb-E1A) that can be induced to display a variety of neuronal characteristics under simple culture conditions. This cell line was generated by retroviral-mediated gene transfer of the adenovirus 12S E1A-immortalizing gene in cerebellar cells isolated from one-week-old rats. Actively dividing cells express the E1A adenovirus protein, and exhibit minimal expression of glial cell markers and low level expression of neuronal cell markers. The immortalized cells can be induced to differentiate by culture in an alternative depolarizing medium or calcium ionophore-containing medium. This caused the expression of neuronal markers to increase rapidly, while glial markers remain unchanged. Under these culture conditions, the Cb-E1A cells also display a variety of other characteristics which suggest that they may provide a good model system for differentiated cerebellar granule neurons. Such neuronal characteristics include a reduction or cessation of mitosis and an increased susceptibility to glutamate toxicity. We think that this novel cell line and differentiation strategy will facilitate future studies of the cellular mechanisms involved in a wide variety of neuronal functions, including development and neurodegenerative disease.
Adenosine trisphosphate-sensitive potassium (K-ATP) channels in the substantia nigra pars reticulata were studied in rat brain slices using whole-cell patch clamp recording. Substantia nigra pars reticula neurons were identified as such by their spontaneous action potential firing at mean rate of 15.3 Hz1 virtual absence of hyperpolarization-activated inward current Ih1 and unresponsiveness to dopamine (30 microM), quinirole (10 microM) and (Met)enkephalin (10 microM). Intracellular dialysis with Mg(2+0-ATP-free pipette solutions caused a slowly developing membrane hyperpolarization (13 +/- 4 mV), accompanied by a cessation of action potential firing, or an outward current (79 +/- 30 pA at around -60 mV), which were reversed b the sulphonylurea K-ATO channel blockers tolbutamide (100 microM) and glibenclamide (3 microM). When Mg(2+0-ATP (2 mM) was included in the recording pipette no membrane hyperpolarization or outward current was observed. Neither the sulphonylureas nor the potassium channel activator lemakalim (200 MicroM) altered membrane potential, firing rate or holding current under these recording conditions. The outward current induced by dialysis with Mg(2+)-ATP-free solutions reversed polarity negative to -94 +/- 9 mV (9 cells), close to the estimated K+ equilibrium potential (-105 mV) for the conditions used, and was associated with a conductance increase that was blocked by Ba2+ (100 microM). The current blocked by the sulphonylureas had a similar reversal potential (-97 +/- 7 MV; 13 cells), and both currents were voltage independent over the range -50 to -100 mV with slope conductance of approximately 2.0 nS. Outward synaptic current were evoked by single shock electrical simulation, in the presence of glutamate receptor antagonists, at a holding potential of -50 mV. These synaptic currents were blocked by bicuculline (10 microM) and reversed polarity at around -65 mV, close to the Cl- equilibrium potential, and were thus mediated by GABAA receptors. They were reversibly depressed by 37 +/- 14% in lemakalim (200 microM) in 6/12 cells tested, an effect that was partially reversed by tolbutamide (200 microM). It is concluded that functional K-ATP channels are present both presynaptically and postsynaptically in the substantia nigra pars reticulata. Postsynaptic K-ATP channels may control excitability in conditions where intracellular ATP is reduced, whereas presynaptic K-ATP channels, sensitive to the potassium channel activator lemakalim, can modulate the release of GABA, which probably arises from fibres of extranigral origin. Pharmacological differences between these two sites could be exploited to treat epilepsies, dyskinesias and akinesia.
Chronic ensemble recording techniques were used to investigate neuronal activity in the nucleus accumbens in freely moving rats during different cocaine self-administration schedules. The issue of concern in this study was the role of nucleus accumbens in initiating and sustaining cocaine self-administration. Specifically, to determine the nature of the neuronal activity, either motor or motivational, which precedes the multiple bar presses required to self-administer cocaine and of the post-lever press neuronal response, we used conventional fixed ratio-5, fixed ratio-10, and modified fixed ratio-3 schedules. In the modified fixed ratio-3 schedule, the first lever press resulted in retraction of the lever for 2 s; the second lever press retracted the lever and turned on a cue light; the third lever press turned off the cue light and delivered cocaine (1.0 mg/kg) intravenously. In the fixed ratio-5 and -10 schedules, rats continuously pressed the lever 5 or 10 times, respectively, to obtain a single infusion of cocaine. Phasic alterations in neural spike activity were observed in 50% of nucleus accumbens neurons before (termed &quot;anticipatory&quot; responses) and after lever pressing for cocaine self-administration. Neurons with anticipatory responses typically exhibited such responses for all lever presses in the modified fixed ratio-3, fixed ratio-5, and fixed ratio-10 schedules, but instances were found when the activity correlate was absent. In addition, some neurons had a prominent alteration in firing rate lasting 1-5 min after cocaine self-administration, and some of these neurons also had anticipatory responses. When cocaine was eliminated during self-administration sessions, the post-lever press inhibitory responses were largely abolished or even reversed, whereas anticipatory responses were not markedly changed when rapid lever presses occurred before behavior ceased. Post-cocaine inhibitory responses compared between self-administered and passively administered cocaine were not significantly different between these two conditions. The results suggest that nucleus accumbens may be involved in initiating general reward-seeking behaviors and action which are not exclusively associated with cocaine self-administration. Moreover, the neuronal responses in the nucleus accumbens to cocaine self-administration may play an essential role in maintaining cocaine reinforcement.
Methylenedioxymethamphetamine (MDMA) is a mood-altering, legally restricted drug that has been reported to inhibit glutamate-evoked firing of cells in the nucleus accumbens. This study used extracellular recording combined with microiontophoresis to examine whether the inhibitory effect of MDMA on neuronal firing in the nucleus accumbens is mediated by serotonin and/or dopamine. Serotonin and serotonin agonists with relative selectivity for the receptor subtypes 5-HT1A, 5-HT1B, 5-HT2A/2C and 5-HT3 all significantly (P &lt; 0.01) inhibited glutamate-evoked firing of cells in the nucleus accumbens compared to the effects of an acidic saline control solution (30-60 nA, 60 s ejection currents for all). The current (dose)-dependent inhibition produced by the serotonin agonists did not differ significantly from the inhibition produced by MDMA except for the 5-HT1A agonist 8-hydroxy-(2-di-n-propylamino) tetralin, which inhibited glutamate-evoked firing significantly more than MDMA or any of the other serotonin agonists. At the highest ejection current tested (60 nA, 60 s), glutamate-evoked firing was inhibited by MDMA in 94% of tested cells, by serotonin in 80% of tested cells and by the serotonin receptor subtype agonists in 95-100% of the tested cells. In addition to being mimicked by serotonin and serotonin agonists, MDMA-induced inhibition of glutamate-evoked firing in the nucleus accumbens was partially blocked by the serotonin antagonists ketanserin (100% of tested cells), methysergide (80% of tested cells), methiothepin (100% of tested cells) and WAY100135 (100% of tested cells). Furthermore, application of the serotonin uptake blocker fluoxetine, which prevents MDMA-induced serotonin release, also significantly attenuated MDMA-induced inhibition of glutamate-evoked firing in all of the cells that were tested. These observations suggest that MDMA-induced inhibition of nucleus accumbens cell firing is at least partially mediated by serotonin. Depletion of dopamine by pretreatment with the neurotoxin 6-hydroxydopamine and the synthesis inhibitor alpha-methyl-p-tyrosine blocked the inhibition of glutamate-evoked firing produced by MDMA applied with low ejection currents (30-40 nA, 60 s). However, this dopamine depletion had no effect on inhibition of glutamate-evoked firing produced by serotonin ejected with low or high currents (20-60 nA, 60 s). These results suggest that both dopamine release and an intermediate step of MDMA-induced serotonin release are necessary for the inhibitory effects of MDMA on neuronal excitability in the nucleus accumbens. The dopamine- and serotonin-mediated inhibitory effects of MDMA on glutamate-evoked firing of nucleus accumbens cells may play a role in the mood-altering properties of this increasingly popular drug.
Glucose deprivation potentiates the glutamate receptor-evoked release of arachidonic acid from cultured mouse striatal neurons. In this study we investigated whether this potentiation would be modified by the end-products of glycolysis. These enhanced responses were completely reversed by the addition of increasing concentrations of either lactate or pyruvate. This reversal was not due to increased osmolarity as substituting sucrose for lactate or pyruvate did not mimic their effects. In contrast, in the presence of glucose, neither lactate nor pyruvate was effective. Furthermore, these monocarboxylic acids rescued neuronal respiration in the absence of glucose. Inhibiting glycolysis with iodoacetate in the presence of glucose reproduced the potentiated glutamate-evoked release of arachidonic acid observed following glucose deprivation and reduced neuronal respiration to the same extent as that observed in the absence of glucose. All of these effects were overcome by the addition of either lactate or pyruvate. The reversal of the potentiated glutamate-evoked release of arachidonic acid by lactate or pyruvate was inhibited by a specific inhibitor of monocarboxylic acid transport, alpha-cyano-4-hydroxycinnamic acid, suggesting that lactate and pyruvate act intracellularly. Therefore, we propose that the enhanced release of arachidonic acid evoked by glutamate during glucose deprivation results from reduced glycolysis and hence from a depletion of lactate or pyruvate.
The early dopaminergic input from the midbrain may play an important role in the development of the basal ganglia. We therefore investigated whether and how dopamine affects the morphogenesis of striatal target neurons. Dissociated cell cultures of embryonic day 17 rat striatum were raised for seven days. Cells were then incubated with dopamine or various receptor-specific ligands for 1 h. At various times after termination of the treatment, cells were immunostained for growth-associated protein-43. Morphological parameters including numbers of growth cones, length of neurites, number of bifurcations, and neuronal soma size were assessed by means of a computer-based morphometric device. Treatment with dopamine in low concentrations as well as with the D1-like receptor agonist SKF 38393 increased the numbers of growth cones and neurite length and arborization. The morphogenetic effect took several hours to evolve and remained stable for at least 24 h. It could be blocked by the D1-like receptor antagonist SCH 23390 or by cycloheximide but not by pretreatment of the cultures with tetrodotoxin. The D2-like receptor agonist quinpirole had no effect on the morphological parameters and did not contribute to that of SKF 38393. Dopamine and SKF 38393 but not quinpirole also induced an increase in the number of neurons immunoreactive for Fos-like proteins. However, this effect was restricted to growth-associated protein-43-negative neurons. This is the first observation of a positive regulatory effect of D1-like receptors on neuronal morphogenesis. We conclude that the changes reflect true differentiation rather than short-term modulation of cellular properties and that c-fos induction is not an obligatory step in the transduction pathway coupling D1-like receptors to neurite outgrowth. Our results suggest that the differentiation of embryonic striatal neurons is promoted by the dopaminergic nigrostriatal projection through D1-like receptors.
Previous studies have documented a highly compartmentalized and laminar organization of dopamine D2 receptors in human hippocampus, entorhinal and perirhinal cortices. These areas receive input from regions of polysensory association cortices of the superior and inferior temporal sulci that evidence functional modules identified by other techniques. We examined the isocortical regions of temporal lobe for an equally well-differentiated pattern of D2 receptor expression as observed in their paleocortical temporal lobe targets. Using quantitative autoradiography we identified an organization of three-dimensional bands of high concentrations of dopamine D2 receptors throughout the rostral-caudal extent of the normal human temporal cortex. In the coronal plane, these D2 receptor-enriched bands had a columnar appearance with the concentration of D2 receptors almost two-fold higher within the bands than in the immediately adjacent cortex. These D2 receptor-enriched bands had a distinct laminar appearance with a paucity of [125I]epidepride binding to D2 receptors over the granule cell layer and higher concentrations of D2 receptors in laminae III and V than in the immediately adjacent cortex. They had a consistent width (mean width of 2.83 +/- 0.62 mm) in the coronal plane, but had their long axes in the rostrocaudal plane (some were at least 2500 microns in length). Hence, they exist as three-dimensional D2 receptor-enriched and receptor-poor modules with their long axes in the rostrocaudal plane. Tyrosine hydroxylase-immunoreactive fibers were observed to cross orthogonally to the long axes of the D2 receptor enriched bands. Other monoamine receptors (beta-adrenergic, 5-hydroxytryptamine2), and markers for myelin (anti-myelin basic protein immunohistochemistry), glia (5'-nucleotidase), and energy metabolism (cytochrome oxidase) showed a laminar organization but failed to demarcate the D2 receptor-enriched bands. The majority of these D2 receptor-enriched bands were observed in the lateral and inferior aspects of the superior temporal gyrus, less frequently on the lateral surface of the inferior temporal gyrus and the parahippocampal cortices (Brodmann's area 22, 42 and 20, 21, 37). They were absent from primary auditory cortex (Brodmann's 41). The present study is the first known observation of a modular organization of synaptic elements, identified by D2 receptors, in non-primary sensory cortices of any species. The dopamine D2 receptor-enriched bands were found in regions previously identified as having functional modules that underlie feature extraction. Hence, D2 receptor-enriched and receptor-poor modules may provide a mechanism for functional regulation of compartments within these regions by dopamine.
The distribution of calbindin-immunoreactive neurons in the red nucleus and the subcellular distribution of the calbindin and parvalbumin in tracer-identified rubrospinal neurons of the rat were studied. Only a fraction of the retrogradely labelled rubrospinal neurons was found to contain calbindin. These neurons filled the caudal part of the red nucleus and also appeared sporadically along the ventromedial border of the middle segment of the red nucleus. In addition to the somata, calbindin was found in the dendritic arbors of tracer-identified rubrospinal neurons, revealed by injecting the fluorescent dye Lucifer Yellow into their cell bodies. The axons of rubrospinal neurons located in the caudal red nucleus were marked by performing anterograde tracing with fluorescent dextran tracer in freshly prepared brainstem slices. Parvalbumin was found to locate in swellings along these tracer-identified axons as well as at their cut ends. The results indicate that calbindin and parvalbumin are segregated to the somadendritic and axonal compartments of the rat rubrospinal neurons, respectively. This anatomical segregation suggests that they may have different functions in neurons.
It has been demonstrated that coagulation in the area of the periaqueductal gray induces a marked increase in paradoxical sleep in the cat [Petitjean F. et al, (1975) brain Res. 88, 439-453]. This effect was obtained either by the destruction of ascending or descending fibres or by the lesion of a specific group of local neurons. To assess the role of these neurons, muscimol (0.5 microgram/0.5 microliter) was injected bilaterally in 31 cats in this area of the periaqueductal gray. Polygraphic recordings were performed before and after injections. Following muscimol (GABAA agonist) injection, there was a consistent increase in paradoxical sleep lasting 269 +/- 8 min (mean +/- S.E.M.), with a latency of 31 +/- 2 min. The increase varied from small (20-30%) to medium (30-50%) to large (50-100% of the recording time), depending on the injection site. The intensity of hypersomnia was correlated with the site of the injection. That is, the most profound hypersomnia was obtained when muscimol was injected in the vicinity of a target area which lies in the ventrolateral periaqueductal gray (at the level of the fourth nucleus) and in the reticular formation situated immediately below. Similar effects were also obtained in insomniac cats pretreated with p-chlorophenylalanine and in cats whose brainstem was transected 3 mm rostral to the injection site. Injections of baclofen, a GABAB agonist (0.25-5 micrograms), did not alter the quantity of paradoxical sleep, whereas injections of bicuculline, a GABAA antagonist, significantly decreased the quantity of paradoxical sleep at the doses of 0.2-2 micrograms. It was concluded that inactivation of ventrolateral periaqueductal gray neurons induces a very important increase in paradoxical sleep. The exact mechanisms of this effect remain to be investigated.
The objective of the present in vitro and in vivo experiments was to examine the involvement of neurokinin NK3 receptors in the regulation of the noradrenergic function in gerbils and guinea-pigs. Application of senktide, a peptide NK3 receptor agonist, on guinea-pig locus coeruleus slices increased the firing rate of presumed noradrenergic neurons (EC50 = 26 nM) in a concentration-dependent manner. Given i.c.v., senktide (0.5-2 micrograms) and (MePhe7)neurokinin B (1-10 micrograms), another NK3 receptor agonist, reduced exploratory behaviour in gerbils in a dose-dependent manner (2 micrograms of senktide producing a 50% reduction of locomotor activity and rearing). In vivo microdialysis experiments in urethane-anaesthetized guinea-pigs showed that senktide (2-8 micrograms i.c.v.) induced a dose-dependent increase in norepinephrine release in the medial prefrontal cortex. The electrophysiological, behavioural and biochemical changes elicited by senktide were concentration- or dose-dependently reduce by SR 142801, the selective non-peptide NK3 receptor antagonist. In the locus coeruleus slice preparation, complete antagonism of senktide (30 nM) was observed with 50 nM of SR 142801, while injected i.p. (0.1-1 mg/kg) it abolished the senktide-induced norepinephrine release in guinea-pigs. In gerbils, SR 142801 (1-10 mg/kg i.p.) reversed the reduction of exploratory behaviour induced by senktide (1 microgram). By contrast, the 100-fold less active enantiomer, SR 142806, did not exert any antagonism in these models. Finally, the reduction of exploratory behaviour in gerbils was found to be reversed by prazosin (0.25-2.56 micrograms/kg i.p.) and to some extent by clonidine, drugs known to depress noradrenergic function. All these experiments strongly support the hypothesis that brain noradrenergic neurons can be activated by stimulation of neurokinin NK3 receptors.
A large and consistent body of data implicates mesopontine cholinergic neurons in the production of rapid eye movement sleep, and indicates that many rapid eye movement sleep events are mediated by activation of pontine reticular formation neurons. There is anatomical evidence for projections from the mesopontine cholinergic nuclei to the pontine reticular formation, but no study has shown that stimulation of this cholinergic zone produces excitatory postsynaptic potentials in pontine reticular formation neurons. In the present study, intracellular recording were made from 168 pontine reticular formation neurons, identified by antidromic activation from the bulbar reticular formation and by neurobiotin intracellular labeling, in acutely anesthetized cats. The effects of single-pulse electrical stimulation of the laterodorsal tegmental nucleus portion of the ipsilateral mesopontine cholinergic zone were evaluated in these neurons. Under urethane anesthesia this stimulation produced, in 21 of 22 recorded neurons, long-latency excitatory postsynaptic potentials (mean = 3 ms), consistent with the conduction velocity of unmyelinated cholinergic fibers (measured conduction velocity was 2 m/s). This excitatory postsynaptic potential was virtually abolished by intravenous administration of the muscarinic cholinergic receptor blocker scopolamine (n = 40 neurons), and by acute cuts separating the laterodorsal tegmental nucleus and the recorded neurons (n = 40). In contrast, a short-latency excitatory postsynaptic potential (0.7-1.5 ms) was not reduced in amplitude by scopolamine and could still be elicited following acute transverse cuts. Unlike the longer-latency excitatory postsynaptic potential, its amplitude was not reduced by barbiturate anesthesia. These data, suggesting the presence of an excitatory, cholinergic laterodorsal tegmental nucleus projection to the pontine reticular formation, provide further support to other lines of evidence implicating mesopontine cholinergic neurons in the production of rapid eye movement sleep, and are compatible with a model of rapid eye movement sleep generation in which a key element is mesopontine cholinergic input depolarizing and increasing the excitability of reticular core neurons.
Mesopontine cholinergic neurons have been implicated in the initiation and maintenance of rapid eye movement sleep via their efferent connections to the thalamus and the medial pontine reticular formation. As a first step toward understanding how these modulatory neurons integrate synaptic input, we have investigated the dendritic architecture of laterodorsal tegmental nucleus neurons. The principal cells of the guinea-pig laterodorsal tegmental nucleus were identified electrophysiologically in a brain slice preparation, then were intracellularly injected with biocytin and reconstructed using a computer-aided tracing system. The somata were large (27 +/- 3 microns; n = 11) and gave rise to an average of 4.8 primary dendrites which, in most cases, emerged from the soma in a pattern that was radially symmetric in the plane of the slice. Primary dendrites had an average of 3.7 endings. A single axon arose from either the soma or a proximal dendrite and exited the nucleus with a medial and/or lateral trajectory. Some axons also gave rise to a local terminal plexus composed of fine fibers bearing numerous punctate swellings that ramified profusely within the neuron's dendritic field. Total dendritic area averaged about 10(5) microns2, and therefore the average contribution of the soma to the total surface area (20%) was significantly larger than the values reported for many other cell types. Dendritic diameters were non-uniform in three respects. Some processes were sparsely spiny. Most processes were varicose, with the degree of varicosity increasing substantially in secondary and tertiary dendritic segments. There was also a large degree of taper in dendritic processes; those processes with a non-negative taper had an average diameter decrease of 40 +/- 25%. Dendritic processes deviated from the criteria necessary for a Rall equivalent cylinder approximation due to non-uniformity in morphotonic path length, failure to conform to the Rall 3/2 branching rule and non-uniformity of dendritic diameter. An analysis was done to assess the impact of dendritic varicosities on the extraction of cable parameters for these cells. Voltage traces were simulated by solving the cable equation for a varicose dendrite and then membrane parameters were recovered using an equivalent cylinder model. Errors in the extracted values of specific membrane conductance and specific membrane capacitance were quite small (&lt; or = 5%), while larger errors were seen for electrotonic length (&lt; or = 21%) and intracellular resistivity (&lt; or = 5%). These data indicate that the principal cells of the laterodorsal tegmental nucleus, while possessing a relatively simple dendritic structure in terms of number and branchiness of dendrites, display a heterogeneity of dendritic process types. Processes range from smooth to markedly varicose, and can be aspiny or sparsely spiny. The possibility that the dendritic varicosities function as sites of either electrical or chemical compartmentalization is discussed. The degree of error resulting from a Rall equivalent cylinder approximation in light of these varicosities indicated that a generalized cable model approach may prove more effective in estimating their cable parameters.
The activation of N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors induces the synthesis of nitric oxide, which activates soluble guanylate cyclase and leads to the formation of cyclic GMP in the brain. The inhibition of nitric oxide production, as well as the blockade of N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors, has been reported to prevent the induction of hippocampal long-term potentiation and learning and memory formation in vivo, although the effects of inhibitors of nitric oxide synthase are still controversial. We investigated the putative role of nitric oxide and cyclic GMP in dizocilpine-induced memory impairment in mice. The nitric oxide synthase inhibitors, NG-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester and 7-nitro indazole, as well as dizocilpine, a non-competitive N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor antagonist, dose-dependently impaired spatial working memory in mice, assessed by their spontaneous alternation behavior in a Y-maze. The inhibitory effects of both NG-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester and dizocilpine on their behavior were completely reversed by 8-bromo-cyclic GMP. Cyclic GMP levels in the cerebellum were reduced by treatment with dizocilpine. NG-Nitro-L-arginine methyl ester and 7-nitro indazole reduced cyclic GMP levels in the cerebral cortex/hippocampus and cerebellum, and the suppressive effect of NG-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester on cyclic GMP levels in the cerebral cortex/hippocampus was reversed by co-treatment with L-arginine. Cyclic AMP levels in the brain were not affected by treatment with either dizocilpine, NG-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester, or 7-nitro indazole. Neither NG-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester nor L-arginine had any effect on monoamine and acetylcholine metabolism in the brain. These results suggest that the reduction in nitric oxide/cyclic GMP production in the brain may be responsible for dizocilpine-induced impairment of spontaneous alternation behavior in a Y-maze.
The comparative quantitative autoradiographic distribution of ionotropic glutamate receptor subtypes were investigated in young adults (six months) and aged (24-25 months) cognitively impaired and unimpaired male Long-Evans rats. Aged rats were behaviorally characterized as either cognitively impaired or unimpaired based upon their performances in the Morris water maze task compared to the young adult controls. The status of the N-methyl-D-aspartate, [125I]dizocilpine maleate, [3H]kainate and amino-3-hydroxy-5-methylisoxasole-4-propionate (AMPA, [3H]AMPA) receptor binding sites were then established in these three subgroups of animals as a function of their cognitive performance in the Morris water maze task. The apparent densities of both N-methyl-D-aspartate/[125I]dizocilpine maleate and kainate binding sites were significantly decreased in various regions of the aged rat brain. Marked losses in [125I]dizocilpine maleate binding sites were observed in outer laminae of the frontal, parietal and temporal cortices, and the stratum radiatum of the CA3 subfield of the hippocampus. Interestingly, losses in [125I]dizocilpine maleate binding sites were generally most evident in the cognitively unimpaired aged subgroup, suggesting a possible inverse relationship between losses of this receptor subtype and cognitive performances in the Morris water maze task. The levels of [3H]kainate binding were most significantly diminished in various cortical and hippocampal areas as well as the striatum and septal nuclei of both groups of aged rats. In contrast, the apparent density of [3H]AMPA binding was increased in most hippocampal subfields and the superficial laminae of the occipital cortex of the cognitively impaired vs young adult rats. Changes in [3H]AMPA labeling failed to reach significance in the unimpaired cohort. Taken together, these results show that while losses in [3H]kainate binding were similar in both subgroups of aged rats, differences were seen with respect to cognitive status for both [125I]dizocilpine maleate/N-methyl-D-aspartate and [3H]AMPA binding sites. Decreases in [125I]dizocilpine maleate binding sites were mostly restricted to cortical areas of cognitively unimpaired rats, while increases in the AMPA binding subtype were seen in the memory-impaired subgroup. It would thus appear that changes in N-methyl-D-aspartate and AMPA receptor subtypes may be more critical than alterations in kainate binding sites for the emergence of the functional deficits seen in the aged cognitively impaired rat.
Aging-related changes in the subunit expression of some hippocampal GABAA receptors have been found. Quantitative in situ hybridization has revealed that alpha 1, subunit messenger RNA expression was significantly increased in the hippocampus (34%) of old rats. The largest increases were observed in the dentate gyrus (76%) and in the CA1 field (30%). Quantitative immunocytochemistry also showed increased protein expression of the alpha 1 subunit in the dentate gyrus (19%) and CA1 (14%) of old rats. The increased alpha 1 messenger RNA and protein expression led to increased proportions of assembled GABAA receptors that contained alpha 1 subunits, as revealed by quantitative immunoprecipitation of (3H)flunitrazepam and (3H)muscimol binding. In contrast, there were no significant changes in the expression of beta 2, beta 3 and total gamma 2 (gamma 2S + gamma 2L) subunits, although a slightly increased expression of gamma 2L peptide was detected in the hippocampus proper (7%), but not in the dentate gyrus. The results are consistent with the notion that in the rat hippocampus there is an aging-related change in the subunit composition of some GABAA receptors.
This series of experiments assessed the role of GABAB receptors in the induction of long-term potentiation in the dentate gyrus in vivo, and spatial learning and memory in three different tasks. In urethane-anesthetized rats, the GABAB receptor antagonist CGP 46381 was injected intraperitoneally at a dose which effectively suppressed GABAB-mediated paired pulse disinhibition. Theta-burst stimulation reliably produced long-term potentiation in control rats. However, GABAB receptor blockade significantly suppressed the induction of long-term potentiation in the dentate gyrus. To compare the results of the long-term potentiation experiments with behavior, we assessed the performance of rats on several spatial learning and memory tasks in the presence of CGP 46381. We found that the working memory performance of highly trained rats on the eight-arm radial maze was unaffected by CGP 46381. There was also no effect of GABAB receptor blockade on learning in the eight-arm maze using a five-trial repeated acquisition paradigm. However, when we tested spatial learning in naive rats using a mildly stressful water maze task, we found that CGP 46381 substantially impaired both the latency to find the platform and the path-length travelled in the maze during acquisition. CGP 46381-treated rats took longer to learn the location of the escape platform and travelled a greater distance over the acquisition trials. These data demonstrate that GABAB receptor blockade results in a suppression of hippocampal long-term potentiation in vivo and impairs spatial learning in a task where stress may be a component of performance.
Changes in the latency of small excitatory postsynaptic potentials were observed in association with induction of long-term modifications of synaptic transmission in slices of rat neocortex and guinea-pig hippocampus. After potentiation response latency decreased in 3/10 cases in the neocortex and in 6/24 cases in the hippocampus, and increased after depression in 4/8 cases in the neocortex. These latency changes could not be attributed to changes in presynaptic fibre excitability, monosynaptic inhibition, release kinetics or activation kinetics of postsynaptic ion channels. We conclude therefore that potentiation led to the activation of previously silent synapses of fast-conducting afferents and depression to the inactivation of previously functional synapses. Thus, neocortical and hippocampal synapses can be in a non-functional state, and regimes that induce long-term potentiation and depression not only change the efficacy of synapses but also alter their functional state.
A classical fear conditioning paradigm was used to examine the effect of acute ethanol on the acquisition of context conditioning, a hippocampal-dependent associative task, and tone conditioning, a hippocampal-independent task. Administration of ethanol before the presentation of seven tone-shock pairings severely disrupted the acquisition of context conditioning, but had only a slight effect on tone conditioning, when conditioned fear was measured 48 h later. This effect was dose dependent: a dose of 0.5 g/kg had no effect on either context or tone conditioning, while doses of 1.0 and 1.5 g/kg disrupted context conditioning by 78-86%, and tone conditioning by 9-17%. Subsequent experiments indicated that ethanol's preferential effect on context conditioning could not be attributed to the fact that context conditioning is weaker than tone conditioning, ethanol-induced changes in motivational state or state-dependent learning. The effect of ethanol on stimulus-induced increases in hippocampal and neocortical expression of c-fos mRNA, a marker for changes in metabolic neuronal activity, was also examined. Ethanol completely blocked the induction of hippocampal c-fos mRNA by exposure to the conditioning context alone or seven tone-shock pairings, but only attenuated neocortical responses to these stimuli. Together, these results suggest that ethanol disrupts hippocampal-dependent learning by preferentially impairing stimulus processing at the level of the hippocampus.
The present studies were designed to test the learning and memory capacities of transgenic mice with central overexpression of corticotropin-releasing factor in a forced alternation water T-maze task and in the Morris water maze. In T-maze testing, littermate control mice reached a criterion of 70% correct responses after five days of trials, while the performance of transgenic subjects was still random after the same training. In Morris maze testing, control subjects reached the submerged platform significantly faster (F(1.48) = 4.51, P &lt; 0.05) after three days of trials, while the performance of transgenic mice was unimproved over the same period. The deficit in Morris maze performance in transgenic mice was reversed when the platform was visible above the surface of the water. Pre-test administration of the benzodiazepine anxiolytic, chlordiazepoxide (10 mg/kg), before acquisition training also produced a significant (F(4.40) = 16.61, P &lt; 0.001) and persistent improvement in Morris maze performance in transgenic mice when compared to vehicle-treated transgenic litter mates. Finally, there was no evidence of hippocampal cell loss in transgenic brains. The results suggest that corticotropin-releasing factor-overexpressing mice exhibit a profound learning deficit without sensory or motor-related impairments, and that memory plasticity can be restored by anxiolytic pre-treatment. Thus, constitutive overabundance of brain corticotropin-releasing factor may produce hyperemotionality that interferes with learned behaviors. Stress-related disorders characterized by co-morbid deficits in learning/memory may benefit from pharmacological normalization of brain corticotropin-releasing factor systems.
Based on the finding that the mechanism of membrane protein sorting may be similar in neurons and epithelial cells, we have investigated the localization of the 5-hydroxytryptamine1A and 5-hydroxytryptamine1B receptors in Eli Lilly and Company canine kidney (LLC-PK1) cells (epithelial cells from pig kidney) stably transfected with the corresponding cDNAs. Receptors were characterized by radioligand binding, measurement of coupled adenylate cyclase activity and immunofluorescene with specific antibodies. Confocal microscopy and cell surface biotinylation experiments showed that the 5-hydroxytryptamine1A receptor, which is at the somatodendritic level in neurons, was targeted to the basolateral surface whereas the 5-hydroxytryptamine1B receptor, which is localized on nerve endings, predominated intracellularly. Such a difference in the localization of these two receptors suggests that the signal for the differential addressing of 5-hydroxytryptamine1A and 5-hydroxytryptamine1B receptors is contained within their primary sequence and confirms that epithelial cells can be used as a suitable model to study receptor targeting in neurons.
Following the intracranial injection of lipopolysaccharide or during acute neuronal degeneration, there is a paucity of polymorphonuclear leukocyte recruitment to the brain parenchyma and a delay in monocyte recruitment. The present study investigates whether the injection of specific leukocyte chemoattractants into the murine central nervous system can override this intrinsic resistance. Recombinant alpha-(IL-8/NAP-1 MIP-2, IP-10) and beta-chemokines (MCP-1, RANTES) were injected into the murine hippocampus and leukocyte recruitment was assessed histologically. Injections were also made into the dermis of the hind flank for comparison. At doses of 1 microgram, MCP-1 was found to be the most potent monocyte chemoattractant in the brain parenchyma and skin with IP-10 and RANTES producing minimal monocyte recruitment to both sites. In contrast IL-8, and MIP-2 provoked dramatic polymorphonuclear leukocyte recruitment in both the central nervous system and skin. The polymorphonuclear leukocyte recruitment was associated with a breaching of the blood brain barrier that was particularly severe after MIP-2. Both L-8 and MIP-2 induced blood brain barrier breakdown could be attenuated by prior depletion of the circulating leukocytes. The regulation of polymorphonuclear leukocyte chemoattractants in the brain parenchyma during injury and infection is an important area for future studies.
The transport of dopamine into presynaptic nerve terminals is the primary mechanism for the termination of dopaminergic neurotransmission. This transport process has recently been found to be composed of two components, a basal dopamine transport pathway which exists in the absence of extracellular ATP and an ATP-regulated moiety which comprises approximately 66% of the total transport system [Cao C. J. et al. (1990) Biochem. Pharmac. 39, R9-R14; Cao C. J. et al. (1989) Biochemistry 8, 207-220; Dunigan C. D. and Shamoo A. E. (1995) Neuroscience 65, 1-4; Eshleman A. et al. (1995) Life Sci. 56, 1613-1621]. Using a rat pheochromocytoma cell line and a Krebs bicarbonate buffering system, the present study examined the effect of several cations on both basal and ATP-regulated dopamine transport. In the absence of extracellular ATP, dopamine transport had an absolute dependence on the presence of Na+, but exhibited no requirement for Mg2+. Kinetically, the addition of 120 mM NaCl increased the Vmax of basal dopamine transport by approximately 150%. In contrast, the ATP-regulated dopamine transport pathway displayed a different sensitivity to Na+ and was completely dependent upon the presence of Mg2+. The addition of 1.2 mM MgSO4 increased the Vmax of transport in the presence of 0.7 mM extracellular ATP by 222%. Both basal and ATP-regulated transport were unaffected by the removal of either Ca2+ or K+ from the assay buffer. When the effects of ouabain, a potent inhibitor of Na+, K(+)-ATPase, were tested in the rat pheochromocytoma cell model, it was found that concentrations of ouabain as high as 1 mM were ineffective at inhibiting either the basal or ATP-regulated dopamine transport components. These results imply that the Na+ gradient supplied by Na+, K(+)-ATPase is not the sole provider of energy needed to drive either transport process. The ionic requirements of the basal and ATP-regulated dopamine transport pathways demonstrate the distinction between the two transport processes. In addition, the ionic dependency profile of the ATP-regulated moiety has provided some mechanistic insights into ATP-regulated catecholamine uptake, as the absolute Mg2+ requirement and the ineffectiveness of Ca2+ argues against the involvement of either purinergic receptors or a Ca(2+)-dependent, Mg(2+)-independent ectokinase in the ATP-regulated transport system.
The immunohistochemical localization of G alpha 9/G alpha 11 was studied in the olfactory and respiratory epithelium of two representative vertebrates, the rat and the channel catfish. Localization in the rat was found at the apical surface of cells in the epithelium and within nerve tracts in the lamina propria. Immunostaining of neuronal cilia and supporting cell microvilli was confirmed by electron microscopy. Immunoreactivity on the ipsilateral neuroepithelium was abolished five weeks following unilateral bulbectomy. An emergence of patchy immunoreactivity was found, however, after fifteen weeks. In catfish, G alpha 9/G alpha 11 antigenicity was found at the apical surface of cells within the olfactory epithelium, at supranuclear regions within some cell bodies and in basal nerve tracts of the olfactory rosette. Immunoreactivity was removed with unilateral bulbectomy. Specific labelling in both rat and catfish was eliminated by preincubation of the G alpha 9/G alpha 11 antibodies with the cognate peptide. Proteins were extracted from olfactory tissues of both species and solubilized. Using western blotting, bands corresponding in apparent molecular weight to a 38,000 mol. wt protein were found. These data demonstrate the presence of G alpha 9/G alpha 11 in the olfactory tissues of these vertebrates and suggest a role in olfaction for this class of G-protein.
Neonatal inhibition of brain estrogen formation in male rats by administration of the aromatase inhibitor, 1,4,6-androstatriene-3,17-dione (ATD), permanently changes aspects of their mating behavior and partner preference in adulthood. The medial preoptic area receives chemosensory inputs via a sexually dimorphic vomeronasal projection circuit, which responds to reproductively relevant pheromonal cues. The medial preoptic area also receives genital somatosensory inputs via the midbrain central tegmental field and the medial amygdala. We used Fos immunoreactivity as a marker of neuronal activation to determine whether there is a correspondence between the behavioral profiles of neonatally ATD-treated male rats and their neuronal responses in the medial preoptic area and other brain regions to somatosensory and chemosensory stimuli. Achieving eight intromissions with an estrous female led to a greater neuronal Fos immunoreactivity in the medial preoptic area of neonatally ATD-treated male rats compared with neonatally cholesterol-treated male rats. Exposure for 1.5 h to chemosensory cues derived from soiled bedding of estrous females induced Fos immunoreactivity throughout the vomeronasal pathway (i.e. medial amygdala, bed nucleus of the stria terminalis and medial preoptic area) in both ATD and cholesterol males (Experiment 2a). By contrast, exposure for 1.5 h to chemosensory cues derived from soiled bedding of sexually active males revealed clear differences between ATD and cholesterol males in neuronal Fos immunoreactive (Experiment 2b). At peripheral portions of the vomeronasal pathway (i.e. the accessory olfactory bulb and the medial amygdala), there were no differences in the number of Fos immunoreactivity neurons between ATD and cholesterol males. However, neurons in the more central portions of the vomeronasal pathway (i.e. the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis and the medial preoptic area) showed increased Fos immunoreactivity after exposure to odors from sexually active males in ATD males as opposed to cholesterol males. Females, like ATD males, showed neuronal Fos immunoreactivity at each level of the vomeronasal pathway after being exposed to odors from sexually active males. These results suggest that the responsiveness of neurons in the central portion of the vomeronasal projection circuit to odors from sexually active males, but not estrous females, is sexually differentiated in male rats due to the neonatal action of estrogens.
In female rats, vaginocervical stimulation induces neuroendocrine responses necessary for pregnancy as well as analgesia to a variety of noxious stimuli. In this study, Fos immunocytochemistry was used to detect vaginocervical stimulation-induced changes in the activity of spinal neurons at levels T11-S3, segments known to receive afferent input from nerves which innervate the reproductive tract. Adult ovariectomized estrogen and progesterone-treated rats were killed 1 h after receiving mating stimulation from males, which included five or 15 intromissions, mounts-without-intromission by use of either vaginal masks or genitally-anaesthetized males, or immediately after being removed from their home cages. At all spinal levels, Fos labelling was lowest in the home cage group (50 +/- 22 cells), intermediate in the groups receiving intromissions (84 +/- 8 and 118 +/- 22 cells) and highest in groups receiving mounts-without-intromission stimulation (187 +/- 21 and 218 +/- 35 cells). Significant increases above control levels following intromissive stimulation were observed at levels L6, S1 and S2. Surprisingly, both groups receiving mounts-without-intromission showed significantly higher numbers of Fos-positive cells than did the fully mated groups at all levels. Analysis of selected spinal segments by Rexed's laminae revealed that intromissive stimulation increased Fos labelling above control levels in laminae II-V and X at L6, and laminae I, II, V and X at S1; vaginocervical stimulation did not increase labelling at L1. The greater Fos responses seen in mounts-without-intromission animals than in control or intromitted animals were apparent at L1, L6 and S1 within the same laminae (II-V and X). These results suggest that stimulation of the uterine cervix initiates activity within L6-S2 neurons which receive pelvic nerve afferents and that such stimulation suppresses activity at all levels within populations of neurons normally activated by cutaneous somatic inputs received from male mounts. As antinociceptive agents are known to suppress c-fos expression, vaginocervical stimulation received during natural mating may be capable of initiating spinal and/or brain mechanisms of analgesia.
The expression of enkephalin in neurons of the rat forebrain was studied by in situ hybridization and immunohistochemistry after unilateral injections of ibotenic acid into the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis. Initially, we observed that the destruction of nerve cell bodies in this nucleus resulted in a prominent bilateral increase in the number of neuronal perikarya immunoreactive for [Met]enkephalin in the lateral/basolateral amygdaloid complex-especially in the anterior division of the latter nucleus-as compared with NaCl-injected rats. In a separate set of experiments, this effect was associated with a significant (two times) enhancement of the number of nerve cell bodies containing preproenkephalin A messenger RNAs in the same amygdaloid nucleus ipsilateral to the injection, as compared with controls. In the hypothalamus of both experimental and control rats, the nerve cell bodies immunoreactive for [Met]enkephalin were few since the animals were not pretreated with colchicine, and the effects of the lesion were difficult to appreciate. However, using in situ hybridization, numerous nerve cell bodies containing preproenkephalin A messenger RNAs were detected bilaterally in the perifornical area, the paraventricular (parvocellular division) and the ventromedial nuclei of the hypothalamus. In the latter nucleus, the lesion of the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis resulted in a strong decrease (about two times) in the number of labelled cell bodies as compared with the controls, whereas no significant changes were found bilaterally in the paraventricular nucleus. In agreement with some data of the literature, our results indicate that the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis plays an important role in the regulation of neuropeptide genes expression in certain regions of the limbic system. Such a role is often exerted by nerve fibres afferents to the nerve cell bodies considered. However, from numerous neuroanatomical data of the literature, it appears more probable that the induction or inhibition of the expression of enkephalin in presynaptic neurons is due to the disappearance of their postsynaptic target in the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis.
The present studies characterize the expression of the alpha 2A, alpha 2B and alpha 2C adrenergic receptor subtypes via in situ hybridization analysis of messenger RNA expression in the adult mouse brain, as well as the pattern of expression of alpha 2A adrenergic receptor messenger RNA at embryonic day E9.5, the earliest time for detection of the messenger RNA encoding this receptor subtype. alpha 2A adrenergic receptor messenger RNA is highly expressed in the sixth layer of the cortex and the locus coeruleus, alpha 2B adrenergic receptor messenger RNA predominantly in the thalamus and in the Purkinje layer of the cerebellum, and alpha 2C adrenergic receptor messenger RNA in the putamen caudate region of the mouse brain. Both alpha 2A and alpha 2C adrenergic receptor messenger RNA demonstrate strong expression in the amygdaloid complex, hypothalamus, olfactory system and the hippocampal formation. To develop a molecular understanding of the unique cellular expression of messenger RNA encoding the alpha 2A adrenergic receptor subtype, 2.83 kb of the upstream regulatory sequence for the alpha 2A adrenergic receptor gene was fused to the LacZ gene as a reporter gene and expression of beta-galactosidase activity was assessed in transgenic offspring. Although the spatial expression of the transgene in the adult brain often overlaps that for the endogenous alpha 2A adrenergic receptor, both ectopic expression and the absence of appropriate expression were noted; in contrast five of the six lines show temporal expression characteristic of the endogenous alpha 2A adrenergic receptor gene. The present studies provide the first characterization of messenger RNA localization for the three alpha 2 adrenergic receptor subtypes in the mouse CNS. Because the functional roles of the prazosin-sensitive alpha 2B adrenergic receptor and alpha 2C adrenergic receptor subtypes have been masked in most earlier physiological and pharmacological analyses of alpha 2 adrenergic receptor function, identifying the multiple loci alpha 2 adrenergic receptor subtype expression is an important prelude to understanding the functional roles of these three independent receptor populations in the mouse CNS. The findings in the transgenic animals indicating that approximately 3 kb of regulatory sequence has imparted faithful temporal but not spatial expression for the alpha 2A adrenergic receptor gene suggest that additional regulatory information is necessary for appropriate cell specific expression of messenger RNA for the alpha 2A adrenergic receptor subtype.
Glutamate is the major mediator of fast excitatory neurotransmission in the mammalian central nervous system. Disturbances of this neurotransmitter system have been implicated in chronic degenerative neurological disease. Recently, major advances in our knowledge and understanding of the molecular biology of the glutamatergic receptor system have been made. It is now known that functional glutamate receptors consist of various combinations of some 20 identified subunits. A growing body of circumstantial evidence suggests that the non-N-methyl-D-aspartate subtype of glutamate receptors may mediate, at least in part, the selective motor neuron death seen in the human neurodegenerative disease amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. We have used subunit specific immunocytochemistry to study the distribution and potential subunit composition of the alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazole-propionic acid (AMPA) selective glutamate receptors, (a subgroup of non-N-methyl-D-aspartate selective glutamate receptors formed by combinations of GluR1-4 subunits), in the human motor system. Motor neurons in the spinal cord, brainstem, and motor cortex were relatively strongly immunoreactive with the GluR2/3 subunit antibody, moderately so with the GluR4 subunit antibody, and showed relatively low levels of immunoreactivity with the GluR1 subunit antibody. This is the first detailed study of AMPA receptor subunit expression in the human motor system. Motor neurons express a distinct subunit profile when compared with other groups of neurons in the human nervous system. There were no significant differences in the pattern of relative AMPA subunit expression (GluR2/3 &gt; or = GluR4 &gt; GluR1) between groups of motor neurons typically affected (in the spinal cord and hypoglossal nucleus), or spared (oculomotor and Onufs nucleus) by the amyotrophic lateral sclerosis disease process. However, oculomotor motor neurons had higher levels of expression of all AMPA subunit proteins which may indicate greater AMPA mediated glutamatergic input in the normal function of this neuronal population. This study does not support a role for differential subunit composition of AMPA receptors in determining the selective vulnerability of motor neurons in amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. However, the overall density of receptors may be of importance.
Brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) is important for the development and trophic support of several neuronal groups in the rat. In the present study, the distribution of BDNF messenger RNA was studied by in situ hybridization, and the cellular localization of BDNF protein was investigated with anti-peptide antibodies. Anatomical investigations were also made in animals with prolonged epileptic seizures which show an enhanced expression of BDNF messenger RNA. Major forebrain areas studied were the hippocampus, striatum and cortex. The messenger RNA coding for the putative high-affinity receptor, tyrosine kinase B, was also visualized using in situ hybridization with a probe specific for the full-length form. In the hippocampus, granule cells and pyramidal neurons expressed BDNF messenger RNA and BDNF-like immunoreactivity. Interneurons in dendritic layers did not show labelling with either method. Tyrosine kinase B messenger RNA was found within neurons in all these regions. In the medial septum-diagonal band, nucleus basalis and lateral hypothalamus, neurons with punctate cytoplasmic immunofluorescence were found, and neurons in the lateral septum were diffusely positive for BDNF. In striatum, positive labelling of medium-sized neurons was found with the antibody, whereas BDNF messenger RNA was only detectable during seizures. A laminar pattern of neuronal labelling for BDNF messenger RNA and protein was found in the neocortex. The analysis of the anatomical distribution of BDNF-producing cells suggests a number of possible cellular interactions. In the hippocampus, BDNF might act in an autocrine or paracrine manner for granule cells and pyramidal neurons, and, in addition, may serve as a signal from these principal cells to interneurons. BDNF could be a target-derived and a locally produced trophic factor for cholinergic neurons in the medial septum. The expression of BDNF in the striatum suggests that this factor could be a target-derived factor for dopaminergic neurons of substantia nigra and/or work as an autocrine/ paracrine factor within the striatum itself.
The effects of chronic alcohol consumption on memory performance and hippocampal acetylcholine release in vivo were investigated in rats. Rats were allowed to drink 25% (v/v) ethanol solution as the only source of fluid for nine consecutive months, whereas control rats received only tap water. Memory performance was tested by the acquisition of shuttle box active and passive avoidance. Chronic ethanol-consuming rats were not impaired in the acquisition of the active avoidance response task, whereas in the passive avoidance task, latency scores of treated rats were significantly lower than in controls. The basal release of acetylcholine in freely moving rats, assessed by the microdialysis technique, was significantly decreased in ethanol-treated rats. Impairment in memory performance, as assessed in the passive avoidance task, was significantly correlated with hippocampal acetylcholine release in vivo.
The possible colocalization of 5-hydroxytryptamine1A receptors and choline acetyltransferase in the same neurons of the medial septum and diagonal band of Broca was investigated using double immunocytochemical techniques, either on the same section or on adjacent thin sections of the rat brain. The presence of both antigens in the same neurons was demonstrated at the light and electron microscopic levels. The proportion of cholinergic neurons that express 5-hydroxytryptamine1A receptors was similar in the different parts of the septal complex (around 25%). By contrast, the proportion of 5-hydroxytryptamine1A receptor-positive neurons also exhibiting choline acetyltransferase immunoreactivity was much higher (40-44%) in the dorsal and ventral groups of cholinergic cells, than in the intermediate group (18%). In line with the topographical distribution of cholinergic projections, this result points out the potential involvement of 5-hydroxytryptamine1A receptors in the control of the septohippocampal cholinergic projection by serotonin. This connection might be relevant to learning and memory, and in the appearance of age-dependent or neurodegenerative cognitive deficits, which have been shown to involve alterations in both the serotoninergic and the cholinergic systems.
Selective removal of the basal forebrain cholinergic neurons by the immunotoxin 192 immunoglobulin G-saporin has offered a new powerful tool for the study of the relationships between cholinergic dysfunction and cognitive impairments. In the present study the morphological and functional consequences of selective lesions of the basal forebrain cholinergic system during early postnatal development have been investigated following bilateral intraventricular injections of 192 immunoglobulin G-saporin to immature (four-day-old) rats. Administration of increasing doses (0.2-0.8 microgram) of the immunotoxin produced dose-dependent loss of cholinergic neurons in the septal/diagonal band area (up to 72-86%) and in the nucleus basalis magnocellularis (up to 91-93%), paralleled by marked reductions in choline acetyltransferase activity in the hippocampus and several cortical regions (73-84%). The parvalbumin-positive neurons in the septal/diagonal band area and the calbindin-positive Purkinje cells in the cerebellum were unaffected at all dose levels. Brain dopamine or noradrenaline levels were unaffected or increased by the immunotoxin treatment. At the optimal dose, 0.4 microgram, the toxin conjugate produced maximal cholinergic depletion without significant mortality. Higher doses (0.8, 1.2 and 1.6 micrograms) of toxin, on the other hand, proved to be lethal for most or all of the injected animals. When tested at three and eight months after the optimal dose, in spite of persisting cholinergic depletion, the noenatally lesioned animals showed no impairment in the water maze task or in locomotor activity and exploration as compared to normal controls, probably reflecting partial sparing of the cholinergic neurons by the neonatal immunotoxic lesion (above all in the vertical and horizontal limbs of the diagonal band area), and/or a greater degree of plasticity in the developing as compared to the mature cholinergic system. The place navigational performance of the neonatally lesioned animals in the water maze task was abolished by central muscarinic cholinergic receptor blockade (by atropine) or by a second immunotoxic lesion, which eliminated virtually all residual cholinergic neurons in the septal/diagonal band area and the nucleus basalis. Administration of 192 immunoglobulin G-saporin to similarly trained, but previously normal adult rats, produced similar cholinergic depletions but much less severe place navigation deficits, suggesting that preoperative training on the task may reduce the functional consequences of a subsequent cholinergic lesion. The results thus support the view that the basal forebrain cholinergic system may be implicated in the acquisition rather than retention of spatial memory in the water maze task.
Multiple-unit and field-potential recordings in low-[Ca2+]0 solutions were used to study epileptiform bursts generated in hippocampal region CA1 and medial entorhinal cortex, a cortical region that is not as densely packed or highly laminated as the hippocampus. As expected in CA1, multiple-unit activity appeared as large spikes that corresponded one-to-one with population spikes in the field-potential recordings. During the negative field-potential shifts that lacked large population spikes, the multiple-unit recordings showed an increase in baseline activity. Initiation of the negative field-potential shift always coincided with increased multiple-unit activity. Slices displaying a post-burst positive overshoot showed a corresponding decrease in multiple-unit activity. In addition to the large ictal-like events in CA1, small-amplitude field-potential shifts were also observed, these events were associated with increases in baseline spike activity in the multiple-unit recording. These small-amplitude field-potential shifts appeared to precede the occurrence of the ictal-like events, but they decreased in frequency during low-[Ca2+]0 exposure. Recordings in normal artificial cerebrospinal fluid (nominally 1.3 mM [Ca2+]0) showed rhythmic, multiple-unit bursts of action potentials and corresponding negative small-amplitude field-potential shifts in the medial entorhinal cortex of immature rats (two-to three-weeks old), but not of adult rats. Rhythmic, spontaneous bursts of activity in low-[Ca2+]0 solution were found in both immature and adult medial entorhinal cortex, and were similar in amplitude to the small field-potential events generated in CA1. The probability of burst generation was higher in the immature than the adult medial entorhinal cortex, and the bursts in the immature cortex had more robust multiple-unit activity and an increased burst frequency compared with adult. These results indicate that the medial entorhinal cortex can also generate spontaneous synchronous bursts of activity in low-[Ca2+]0 solutions, and they suggest that the increased susceptibility of medial entorhinal cortex from immature versus adult rats to generate intense bursts of electrical activity does not require active chemical synaptic transmission. The various forms of epileptiform activity in low-[Ca2+]0 solutions probably arise from different contributions of electrical and ionic mechanisms of synchronization in these neuronal populations. The data suggest the hypothesis that ionic mechanisms (i.e. changes in [K+]0) may synchronize neurons in cortical regions (e.g. entorhinal cortex) that are not as densely packed and highly laminated as the hippocampus and dentate gyrus. The data also support the hypothesis that these mechanisms contribute significantly to the increased seizure susceptibility of the immature brain.
The aim of the present work was to investigate the mechanism by which the diffusible factor nitric oxide regulates GABAA receptor function in the brain. The effect of nitric oxide on GABAA receptor function has been studied in two different neuronal preparations: rat cerebral cortex microsacs and rat cerebellum granule cells in culture. In the first case, GABA-stimulated 36Cl-accumulation was studied as an index of GABAA receptor function. The maximal rate of GABA-stimulated 36Cl- accumulation (Vmax) was reduced by treatment of microsacs with nitric oxide chemical donors such as sodium nitroprusside (-26%) and S-nitroso-acetyl-penicillamine (-11%). The greater effect of the former agent is due to an additional interference by its breakdown products. The biochemical precursor L-arginine (1 mM) produced the same Vmax decrease as S-nitroso-acetyl-penicillamine. This effect was reversed by a nitric oxide synthase blocker and appears truly nitric oxide mediated. The action of nitric oxide in this system does not seem to imply cyclic GMP formation. GABAA receptor function was studied by whole-cell patch-clamp in rat cerebellum granule cells in culture. In this case, L-arginine (100 microM) profoundly reduced the Cl- current elicited by 10 microM GABA and its effect subsided following washing out. The effect of L-arginine was observed almost exclusively on the rapidly desensitizing component of the GABA-activated current. The action of L-arginine was blocked by a protein kinase G inhibitor and mimicked by its activators. Thus, it appears that this effect in these cells involves nitric oxide formation, cyclic GMP accumulation and protein kinase G-catalysed phosphorylation of GABAA receptor.
This study investigates the pattern of distribution of GABAA receptor subunit subtypes in the substantia nigra of the rat using in situ hybridization techniques and immunohistochemistry at the light microscopic level following unilateral quinolinate lesions in the striatum. The main purpose of this study was to first identify the variety and regional distribution of GABAA receptor subtype messenger RNAs in the normal substantia nigra and, second, to determine if this pattern and level of expression of GABAA receptor subtypes in the substantia nigra is affected following quinolinate-induced degeneration of the GABAergic striatonigral projection neurons. The study is based on a comparison of adjacent sections using: (i) in situ hybridization and oligonucleotide probes selective for 13 of the GABAA receptor subunits; and (ii) immunohistochemistry and antibodies specific to three protein subunits of the GABAA receptor complex. The results show that the GABAA receptor in the normal substantia nigra pars reticulata has a molecular configuration comprising of the alpha 1, beta 2, and gamma 2 subtypes and that following quinolinate lesions of the striatum the subtype configuration of the GABAA receptors remains unaltered, but that there is a marked increase in the level of expression of the alpha 1, beta 2 and gamma 2 subtypes. In confirmation of these findings, the immunohistochemical results show increased immunoreactivity for the alpha 1, beta 2,3 and gamma 2 GABAA receptor subtypes in the substantia nigra following degeneration of GABAergic striatonigral neurons. The details of these findings are discussed with reference to previous studies and with regard to the implications that these results may have for specific GABAergic neurodegenerative diseases of the human basal ganglia, such as Huntington's disease.
The mammalian striatum is divided into compartments that are anatomically and neurochemically distinct. The dorsal striatum has been described as containing two compartments, striosomes and matrix, while the ventral striatum is thought to have a more complex, multi-compartmental organization. In this study, we sought to characterize the compartmentalization of the dorsal and ventral portions of the human striatum using choline acetyltransferase as a marker. Image analysis was used to assess relative densities of immunostaining, and three distinct, choline acetyltransferase-immunostained compartments were demonstrated: intensely immunostained, moderately immunostained and weakly immunostained areas. The dorsomedial portion of the striatum was made up of moderately immunostained regions embedded within a densely immunostained background, thus manifesting the characteristic striosome/ matrix organization of the dorsal striatum. However, the ventral and lateral two-thirds of the striatum were made up of a mixture of densely immunostained, moderately immunostained and weakly immunostained areas, with the moderately immunostained region forming the bulk of the background tissue, and smaller, densely immunostained and weakly immunostained regions embedded within it. These compartments were compared to regions defined by distinct levels of acetylcholinesterase immunostaining in adjacent sections; the staining patterns produced by the two cholinergic markers were found to be identical except in some portions of the nucleus accumbens, where acetylcholinesterase immunostaining was found to be more intense than choline acetyltransferase immunostaining. The immunoreactive somata were mapped within sections stained for choline acetyltransferase taken from different rostrocaudal levels of the striatum, and the distributions and densities of immunoreactive somata within these three cholinergic compartments were determined. In general, the densities of cholinergic somata roughly correlated with immunostaining intensity of regions, e.g. the most intensely immunostained compartment also had the highest densities of cholinergic somata. However, in the rostroventral striatum, the densities of cholinergic somata in the weakly immunostained compartment roughly equalled the densities of cholinergic somata in the moderately immunostained compartment, suggesting that local axonal arborizations of cholinergic cells may differ in density or orientation between the two compartments, or, alternatively, that some of the cholinergic cells in the weakly immunostained compartment may project outside of the striatum. The large proportion of striatum displaying ventral striatal characteristics (a complex, multi-compart-mental organization) in humans relative to that observed in other mammals suggests that the role of the ventral striatum may be expanded and more highly differentiated in the human brain.
Aspartate-like immunoreactivity was visualized in the neostriatum of rats using indirect immunofluorescence techniques and antibodies raised against aspartate conjugated to keyhole limpet hemocyanine. In normal rats only a few aspartate-positive cell bodies with limited processes were observed. A moderate increase was seen after treatment with (+)methamphetamine and haloperidol. A dramatic increase in the number and fluorescence intensity was observed in the unilaterally 6-hydroxy-dopamine lesioned rats after multiple injections of the D1-dopamine receptor agonist SKF 38393. In these rats strongly fluorescent processes as well as extensive terminal varicose fibre networks were observed. This increase could partly be blocked by the D1-dopamine receptor antagonist SCH 23390. Using a modified technique the aspartate-positive cell bodies and processes were observed even when the antiserum was diluted 1:80,000. Positive cell bodies and fibres were also seen on the ipsilateral side outside the neostriatum, for example in the islet of Calleja and in the piriform cortex. The aspartate-positive cells were negative for dopamine- and cyclic AMP-regulated phosphoprotein-32, a marker for neurons bearing dopamine D1-receptor subtype. A proportion of the aspartate-positive neurons (20%) contained neuropeptide tyrosine-like immunoreactivity. On adjacent sections there was a marked up-regulation of preprodynorphin-like immunoreactivity. The up-regulation of dynorphin and aspartate was only observed when there was an almost complete denervation of the neostriatum as visualized with antiserum to tyrosine hydroxylase, a marker for dopamine fibres. The present results raise the possibility that aspartate may act as a neurotransmitter released from interneurons in the neostriatum.
Human neuroblastoma NMB cells take up [3H]dopamine in a selective manner indicating that dopamine transporters are responsible for this uptake. These cells were therefore used as a model to study dopamine neurotoxicity, and to elucidate the role of dopamine transporters in controlling cell death. Treatment with 0.05 0.4 mM dopamine changed cells' morphology within 4 h, accompanied by retraction of processes, shrinkage, apoptosis-like atrophy, accumulation of apoptotic particles, DNA fragmentation and cell death. Cycloheximide inhibited dopamine's effect suggesting that induction of apoptosis by dopamine was dependent upon protein synthesis. Dopamine cytotoxicity, monitored morphologically by flow cytometric analysis, and by lactate dehydrogenase released, was blocked by cocaine but not by the noradrenaline and serotonin uptake blockers desimipramine and imipramine, respectively. Attempting to inhibit dopamine transport and toxicity in a drug-free and highly selective way, three 18-mer dopamine transporter antisense phosphorothioate oligonucleotides (numbers 1, 2 and 3) and a new plasmid vector expressing the entire rat dopamine transporter complementary DNA in the antisense orientation were prepared and tested. Antisense phosphorothioate oligonucleotide 3 inhibited [3H]dopamine uptake in a time- and dose-dependent manner. Likewise, transient transfection of NMB cells with the plasmid expressing dopamine transporter complementary DNA in the antisense orientation partially blocked [3H]dopamine uptake. Antisense phosphorothioate oligonucleotide 3 also decreased, dose-dependently, the toxic effect of dopamine and 6-hydroxydopamine. Western blot analysis with newly prepared anti-human dopamine transporter antibodies showed that antisense phosphorothioate oligonucleotide 3 decreased the transporter protein level. These studies contribute to better understand the mechanism of dopamine-induced apoptosis and neurotoxicity.
Release of endogenous aspartate and glutamate from the region of the nucleus tractus solitarii was measured in vitro by perfusion methods and in vivo by microdialysis. Stimulation of the nucleus tractus solitarii with 35 mM potassium in vitro significantly increased extracellular concentrations of aspartate and glutamate. Glutamate and aspartate concentrations also increased with dialysis of 100 mM KCl into the nucleus tractus solitarii in vivo, but only changes in glutamate were significant. Experiments in vivo revealed that activation of the baroreflex by intravenous infusion of phenylephrine significantly increased glutamate in dialysates, while hypoventilation that accompanies baroreceptor activation and may activate chemoreceptors tended to increase aspartate but not glutamate. The demonstration that glutamate, but not aspartate, is released with activation of the baroreflex further supports the hypothesis that glutamate is a neurotransmitter of baroreceptor afferents terminating in the nucleus tractus solitarii.
A radioiodinated analogue of neuropeptide FF, [125I][D. Tyr1,(NMe) Phe3]neuropeptide FF, was used as a selective probe to label neuropeptide FF receptors in the rat spinal cord. Following neonatal capsaicin treatment, dorsal rhizotomy or sciatic nerve section, the distribution and possible alterations of spinal cord specific [125I][D.Tyr1,(NMe)Phe3]neuropeptide FF binding sites were evaluated using in vitro quantitative receptor autoradiography. In normal rats, the highest densities of sites were observed in the superficial layers of the dorsal horn (laminae I-II) whereas moderate to low amounts of labelling were seen in the deeper (III-VI) laminae, around the central canal, and in the ventral horn. Capsaicin-treated rats showed a bilateral decrease (47%) in [125I][D.Tyr1,(NMe)Phe3]neuropeptide FF binding in all spinal areas. Unilateral sciatic nerve section and unilateral dorsal rhizotomy induced significant depletions (15-27%) in [125I][D.Tyr1,(NMe)Phe3]neuropeptide FF labelling in the ipsilateral dorsal horn. These results suggest that a proportion of neuropeptide FF receptors is located on primary afferent terminals of the dorsal horn and could thus play a role in the modulation of nociceptive transmission.
The contribution of metabotropic glutamate receptor activation to the spinal segmental reflex response evoked at high-intensity electrical stimulation suggesting a role in nociception, has been examined in an in vitro preparation of neonatal rat spinal cord. Segmental reflex responses were recorded as a ventral root depolarization evoked following drug perfusion to the spinal cord or by electrical activation of high-threshold nociceptive afferent fibres. Superfusion of the selective metabotropic glutamate receptor agonist, (1S, 3R)-1-aminocyclopentane-1,3-dicarboxylic acid [(1S,3R)-ACPD], to the spinal cord produced a dose-dependent, reversible ventral root depolarization (EC50 = 58 +/- 7 microM; n = 4), which was antagonized by the selective metabotropic glutamate receptor antagonist, (+)-alpha-methyl-4-carboxyphenylglycine (MCPG; IC50 = 243 +/- 61 microM; n = 4). MCPG, over the same concentration range (10 microM-5.0 mM) did not affect N-methyl-D-aspartate-induced ventral root depolarizations. In contrast, the specific N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor antagonist D(-)-2-amino-5-phosphonopentanoic acid (D-AP5) reduced N-methyl-D-aspartate-evoked ventral root depolarization but did not affect the depolarization evoked by (1S,3R)-ACPD, thus indicating the specificity of the antagonists for these aggregate responses. MCPG significantly reduced the prolonged phase of the single shock C-fibre-evoked ventral root depolarization (IC50 = 2.9 +/- 0.2 mM; n = 3-5). Low frequency high intensity stimulation of the dorsal root evoked a wind-up response, the amplitude of which was attenuated by both D-AP5 and MCPG in a dose-dependent manner. The ventral root depolarization evoked by capsaicin application (1.0 microM, 30 s) was blocked by both MCPG (IC50 = 809 +/- 35 microM; n = 4) and D-AP5 (IC50 = 143 +/- 43 microM; n = 4). These data suggest that both D-AP5 and MCPG reduced C-fibre-induced ventral root responses. In addition to N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor, metabotropic glutamate receptor activation appears to be involved in the generation of the segmental spinal reflex evoked by high-intensity stimulation in the neonatal rat spinal cord in vitro.
Recent studies indicate that glutamate binding to N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors in the spinal cord is involved in triggering the development of chronic pain However, the processes which directly underlie the increased pain remain unclear. Here we report that, following peripheral nerve injury (ligation of the sciatic nerve) in the rat, there is an increase in immunoreactive labelling of non-N-methyl-D-asparatate, AMPA (alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazoleproprionate), glutamate receptors in the superficial laminae of the lumbar spinal cord ipsilateral to the ligation. The increase in AMPA receptor expression peaks 14 days after nerve ligation and decreases 35 days post-ligation, corresponding to the time-course of heightened sensitivity to mechanical and thermal noxious stimuli (hyperalgesia) induced by the ligation. Given evidence that AMPA receptors in the superficial laminae mediate fast nociceptive transmission in the spinal cord, our findings suggest that an upregulation of spinal AMPA receptors contributes to hyperalgesia following peripheral nerve injury.
In Alzheimer's disease, the most prevalent of the neurodegenerative diseases, inflammation of the CNS contributes to the pathology and is a target for therapy. In contrast, the group of neurodegenerative conditions known as the Prion Diseases have been widely reported as lacking any inflammatory elements despite the many similarities between the pathologies of Alzheimer's Disease and Prion Diseases We have found evidence for an inflammatory component in mouse scrapie, characterized by microglial activation and T-lymphocyte recruitment, which appears long before any clinical signs of the disease and spreads along well-defined anatomical pathways. These observations emphasize the potential value of murine scrapie as a model for studying the inflammatory pathology of other neurodegenerative diseases.
ANTON VON EISELSBERG was the first to resect a cerebral tumor at the First Surgical Clinic at the General Hospital in Vienna in 1904. He successfully removed a cerebral glioma, the first of no fewer than 15,000 tumors operated on at that hospital to date. von Eiselsberg and his successors, Egon Ranzi and Leopold Schnbauer, as heads of the First Surgical Clinic, devoted themselves intensively to brain surgery, and neurosurgery developed to be an integral part of Viennese surgery. During the first decades, a prominent neurologist, Otto Marburg, and a world-famous anatomist, Julius Tandler, were members of the neurosurgical operating team. This approach changed in the 1950s, when the brain surgeons aimed at becoming independent of the basic sciences. The founding of an independent neurosurgical department at the University of Vienna in 1964 under Herbert Kraus also marked the beginning of the formation of specialized sections for pediatric and stereotactic neurosurgery. After 1968, the operating microscope was greatly emphasized. As of 1970, cerebral tumors and cerebrovascular lesions were treated microneurosurgically. Many operations were performed by surgeons who were experienced in neurosurgery. This again changed in 1978 under the new head of the department, Wolfgang Koos, who regarded the neurosciences as the basis for neurosurgical training as well as neurosurgical activity. The reorganization of the neurosurgical institution coincided with the construction of a large modern building with state-of-the-art equipment for microneurosurgery, radiosurgery (gamma knife), neurodiagnostics, laboratories, etc. Many details of the construction plans, the equipment, and the organization of the department have their roots in the years that the present head of the department spent in the United States; this is also the reason for the close connection and cooperation of Vienna neurosurgery with many neurosurgeons in the United States.
Intravenous administration of the NK1 receptor antagonist L-733,060 to gerbils 3 h before intraplantar injection of formalin caused a dose-dependent and complete inhibition of the late, but not early, phase nociceptive response (paw licking). The ID50 for L-733,060 (0.17 mg/kg) revealed a greater than 50-fold separation in potency over its less active enantiomer L-733,061 (ID50 &gt; or = 10 mg/kg). In contrast, the non-brain penetrant quaternary ketone NK1 receptor antagonist, L-743,310 (3 mg/kg), did not attenuate the response to formalin, indicating that the antinociceptive effect of blockade of NK1 receptors by L-733,060 in this assay is centrally-mediated. These findings add to the preclinical evidence that NK1 receptor antagonists may be of therapeutic use as centrally-acting analgesics.
Although the tail-flick response to radiant heat is widely used in nociceptive research, there are indications that this benchmark test possesses some undesirable characteristics. Of present concern is the possibility that the supra-threshold stimuli associated with behavioral testing while under the influence of an effective hypoalgesic manipulation can alter subsequent tail-flick responses. To examine the effects of supra-threshold heating of the tail, we exposed anesthetized rats to either (1) manual restraint of the tail during a single tail-flick trial to a 5- or 7-sec cut-off, or (2) testing while under the analgesic effects of morphine (5 mg/kg/ml). A single prolonged trial produced hyperalgesia which lasted for 30 min. Following naltrexone injection, hyperalgesia was also found in animals that had been tested while under morphine analgesia. In contrast, animals that received morphine but were not tested under its influence did not exhibit hyperalgesia of similar magnitude. Analyses of tail temperature data in the second experiment indicate that these results are not dependent on shifts in tail temperature. These results suggest that, in anesthetized animals, exposure to prolonged tail-flick trials can produce hyperalgesia.
The motivational effects of ethanol were examined in Swiss-Webster mice using an unbiased place conditioning, design. Adult male Swiss-Webster mice received six 5-min pairings of a tactile stimulus with different doses of ethanol (1, 2, 3, or 4 g/kg. IP). A different tactile stimulus was paired with saline injections. A 60-min preference test was given after the first four conditioning trials and an additional 30-min preference test after the sixth conditioning trial. During conditioning, ethanol initially produced locomotor stimulation at the 2 g/kg dose and locomotor depression at the 4 g/kg dose. However, after repeated ethanol exposure, all doses produced overall increases in activity relative to saline, suggesting sensitization to ethanol's stimulant effect. After four conditioning trials ethanol-induced conditioned place preference was noted in mice receiving 3 and 4 g/kg ethanol. After two additional conditioning trials all ethanol doses produced conditioned place preference. These results indicate that ethanol has dose-dependent rewarding effects measured in an unbiased place-conditioning paradigm using a standard outbred mouse strain. Further, additional place-conditioning trials enhance the development of preference at lower (1 or 2 g/kg) ethanol doses.
Anticipatory level-changing behavior is a form of appetitive sexual behavior displayed by male rats prior to introduction of a female in a bilevel testbox. Analysis of this level-changing behavior may serve as assessment of sexual motivation. Because ejaculation affects appetitive aspects of sexual behavior, measures purporting to assess sexual motivation should be effected by ejaculation. We observed that ejaculation prior to testing reduced the number of anticipatory level changes of a male rat. This reduction was greater when tested after two than after one ejaculation. Our results support the concept that analysis of anticipatory level-changing behavior can be used to measure sexual motivation.
Level-changing behavior is a form of anticipatory behavior of a male rat, when tested in a bilevel testbox. The male explores the testcage prior to introduction of a female. The female is introduced after 5 min. The number of level changes displayed by the male in this period reflects appetitive aspects of sexual behavior and it was suggested that analysis of this level-changing behavior may function as assessment of sexual motivation. In this study the increase of anticipatory level changes over repeated weekly tests was dependent upon (sexual) olfactory stimulation. The number of anticipatory level changes was reliably reduced by administration of the opioid antagonist naloxone, suggesting that endogenous opioids facilitate this behavior. These results suggest that the increase of anticipatory level changes over repeated tests is a response to olfactory stimuli and reflects appetitive aspects of sexual behavior, which are stimulated by endogenous opioids. These results are in accordance with the concept that analysis of anticipatory level-changing behavior can be used to assess sexual motivation.
Somatostatin was first identified chemically in 1973, since when much has been established about its synthesis, storage and release. It has important physiological actions, including a tonic inhibitory effect on growth hormone release from the pituitary. It has other central actions which are not well understood but recent cloning studies have identified at least five different types of cell membrane receptor for somatostatin. The identification of their genes has allowed studies on the distribution of the receptor transcripts in the central nervous system where they show distinct patterns of distribution, although there is evidence to indicate that more than one receptor type can co-exist in a single neuronal cell. Receptor selective radioligands and antibodies are being developed to further probe the exact location of the receptor proteins. This will lead to a better understanding of the functional role of these receptors in the brain and the prospect of determining the role, if any, of somatostatin in CNS disorders and the identification of potentially useful medicines.
The effects of flesinoxan, a potent and selective 5-HT1A agonist, were studied in two pilot studies in panic disorder patients to explore the role of 5-HT1A receptors in the mechanism of action of antipanic agents. This paper reports on the results of these two studies with flesinoxan. In study I, using a single-blind crossover design, five patients were treated for 1 week with placebo, 4 weeks with flesinoxan (up to 2.4 mg per day), and 2 weeks with placebo. In study II, 15 patients were enrolled in a double-blind, three-armed study with placebo and two dosages of flesinoxan. After a single-blind placebo run-in phase of 1 week, patients were treated for 8 weeks with placebo, 0.6 or 1.2 mg/day flesinoxan. In pilot study I patients' condition worsened during the 4-week flesinoxan treatment period. Anxiety was frequently reported as an adverse event. Symptoms returned to the pre-treatment level during the 2-week placebo washout period. In pilot study II, no treatment effects in either group were observed. Anxiety as an adverse event was less prominent than in the first pilot study. A lowering of mood was seen in some patients. The sample sizes of these two pilot studies are too small to draw firm conclusions on the efficacy of flesinoxan in panic disorder, but the present data are not encouraging in this respect. The worsening of symptoms seen with the highest dose of flesinoxan is intriguing and might give a clue to the understanding of the mechanism underlying similar effects seen with antidepressants in panic disorder patients.
This report describes the activity of the antiepileptic agent gabapentin (Neurontin) in animal models predictive of anxiolysis and analgesia. Gabapentin displayed anxiolytic-like action in the rat conflict test, the mouse light/dark box and the rat elevated X-maze with respective minimum effective doses (MEDs) of 3, 10 and 30 mg/kg. Furthermore, gabapentin also induced behavioural changes suggestive of anxiolysis in the marmoset human threat test with a MED of 30 mg/kg. In the rat formalin test of tonic nociception, gabapentin dose-dependently (30-300 mg/kg) and selectively blocked the late phase with a MED of 100 mg/kg. However, it failed to block carrageenan-induced paw oedema. The intracerebroventricular (ICV) administration of the glycine/NMDA receptor agonist D-Serine, dose-dependently (10-100 micrograms/animal) reversed the antinociceptive action of gabapentin (200 mg/kg, SC). D-Serine (30 micrograms/animal, ICV) also reversed the anxiolytic-like effects (in the light/dark box and the rat elevated X-maze) of gabapentin (30 mg/kg). In contrast, L-Serine (100 micrograms, ICV) failed to block the antinociceptive action of gabapentin. The antinociceptive action of (+)-HA-966 (25 mg/kg, SC), a partial agonist at the glycine/NMDA receptor, was reversed by D-Serine (100 micrograms/animal, ICV). However, D-Serine (100 micrograms/animal, ICV) failed to affect the antinociceptive action of a competitive NMDA receptor antagonist CGS 19755 (3 mg/kg, SC). Gabapentin has negligible affinity for the strychnine insensitive [3H]glycine binding site. This indicates that the interaction between gabapentin and D-Serine may not involve the NMDA receptor complex. Gabapentin may represent a novel type of anxiolytic and analgesic agent.

Excitatory amino acids, such as glutamate, exert a profound stimulatory effect on the reproductive axis of several mammals. Although glutamate receptor agonists stimulate GnRH secretion, both in vivo and in vitro, it is unclear whether GnRH neurones respond directly to glutamatergic excitation. Immortalized GnRH neurones (GT1 cells) express glutamate receptors when grown in culture and also show enhanced GnRH secretion in response to glutamate receptor agonists. In addition, immunocytochemical evidence at the electron microscope level supports the possibility of a direct interaction between glutamatergic and GnRH neurones. In general, however, double-label histochemical studies (using immunocytochemistry, in situ hybridization, or a combination of these techniques) have not shown significant glutamate receptor gene expression in GnRH neurones of adult animals. It remains to be determined whether a higher degree of glutamate receptor gene expression occurs during development. This general lack, or very low amount, of glutamate receptor gene expression in the GnRH neurones of adults supports the view that excitatory amino acids exert their stimulatory action on the reproductive axis primarily through interneuronal pathways that impinge on the GnRH neurones, rather than by stimulating GnRH release directly.
Before the implementation of the health care reform of 1992 (The Adel Reform), a study of the frequency of mental impairment of people in different residential and care services was conducted in a parish of Stockholm. All residents, 65 years or older, registered with Primary Care Centres, Geriatric Hospitals and other institutions were assessed with respect to cognitive function according to the seven stage &quot;Global Deterioration Scale&quot; (GDS). The age-specific frequencies of mental impairment were similar to prevalences reported in earlier studies. The frequency of cognitive dysfunction of non-institutionalized and institutionalized elderly was 42% and 52%, respectively, and higher for women than for men. There was considerable variation in the prevalence of cognitive dysfunction among subjects in different types of accommodation. For the different stages of mental impairment the average age was about the same. With increasing need and demand for services, and limited resources, these variations in cognitive dysfunction have important implications for structuring appropriate support systems in a population with a rapidly rising proportion of elderly people.


Any therapeutic trial of a new treatment for stroke must provide sufficient reliable evidence to convince clinicians and healthcare purchasers of its merits. Clinicians are most likely to be convinced by large independent studies that provide clear evidence of benefit. If the trial is really to alter healthcare delivery, it should also confirm that the treatment is cost-effective enough to satisfy the increasingly critical demands of the healthcare purchasers. Although some of the current trials will be able to detect large benefits, reliable detection of the moderate benefits that seem more plausible with neuroprotection will need to wait until completion of trials that are perhaps an order of magnitude larger. If tens of thousands of patients are to be recruited into trials of neuroprotective therapy, it is essential that the trials have simple practicable designs that allow participation not only by interested university hospitals but also busy general hospitals with few research resources.
Transmitter release from frog motor nerve terminals occurs at specialized sites on the nerve terminal called active zones (AZs). We have used a low calcium (0.1 nM) saline treatment to disrupt AZ structure and correlated these changes with alterations in transmitter release from the nerve terminal. Exposure to 0.1 nM free calcium saline for 3 h caused many individual AZs to break into two or three pieces, apparently unorganized particles drifted free of the AZ array, and the normally ordered alignment of AZ particles was loosened. Despite these forms of disruption in AZ organization, physiological function remained remarkably normal. Although the size of the endplate potential recorded in response to a single nerve stimulus was little affected, paired-pulse facilitation and tetanic potentiation were significantly increased. Synaptic depression was not apparent during the tetanus, but was revealed following the cessation of the stimulation. The results are consistent with the hypothesis that 0.1 nM calcium treatment detached AZ segments from the anchoring molecules that normally hold these proteins in alignment with other synapse-specific molecules. We propose that the ordered AZ organization serves to bring the calcium channels that regulate transmitter release in close proximity to other proteins that are critical to the modulation of release, especially during periods of high frequency stimulation. We hypothesize that the drifting AZ segments, although capable of apparently normal transmitter release, may not be tightly coupled with the intracellular calcium handling proteins that normally restrict the time that calcium ions have to act on the transmitter release apparatus following each action potential.
We investigated hypoxic effects on cholesterol metabolism in cultured brain microvascular endothelial cells (BEC), aortic endothelial cells (AEC) and aortic vascular smooth muscle cells (VSMC) from rat. In control conditions, acid lipase activities in BEC and AEC were higher than that in VSMC. Acyl-Coenzyme A: cholesterol acyltransferase (ACAT) activities in control cells of BEC and AEC were lower than that of VSMC. Hypoxic treatment caused decreased acid lipase activity. ACAT activity decreased in VSMC. High pressure lipid chromatography (HPLC) study showed that hypoxia caused decreased contents of cholesterol and cholesteryl esters especially in AEC. We suggested that there is different cholesterol metabolism in the hypoxic treatment among endothelial cells and smooth muscle cells.

Neurofibromatosis type 2 (NF2) is an autosomal dominant disease which predisposes primarily to CNS tumors such as schwannomas (vestibular and spinal), meningiomas, ependymomas and juvenile posterior lenticular opacities. Allelic losses on chromosome 22q first suggested the existence of a tumor suppressor on this autosome in accordance with Knudson's 'two hit' model. The gene was identified by positional cloning and found to encode a novel protein schwannomin (also known as merlin), with high sequence similarity to the band 4.1 family of proteins. This similarity suggested a new mechanism of tumor suppression since it was the first time a structural protein had been associated with a human tumor. Mutation analysis confirmed that inactivation of the NF2 gene occurred in NF2 tumors and a majority of sporadic schwannomas and meningiomas. Expression and functional studies have provided additional information on the possible involvement of this novel tumor suppressor in cell differentiation, embryogenesis and growth suppression.
The development of neurochemical investigations at the Institute of Biochemistry of the National Academy of Sciences of Ukraine initiated by Academician A. V. Palladin, has impelled specialists in some regions of the country to start research in this trend. The Department of Biophysics and Biochemistry of Dniepropetrovsk State University founded and headed by Professor O. D. Reva became one of such centres in the Dnieper area. The chief developments of scientific-research inventions were devoted to radiational neurochemistry, O. D. Reva should be accounted as a pioneer of the study of chemical composition and metabolism in functional and morphologically logically different sites of cats spinal cord lumbar enlargement. Thus, the significant statement, proposed by A. V. Palladin, was confirmed about the presence of biochemical differentiation in cerebrum besides the morphological and functional ones. While analysing the test data concerning the biochemical and biophysical indices of roentgen irradiation of cats in different terms and conditions an original scheme of radiation-biophysical and radiation-biochemical injury of spinal cord was proposed. Some tissue proteinases, as well as some neurospecific proteins in the norm and under the gamma-irradiation were selected and assayed. An immunoelectrophoretic technique for estimating glyolic fibrilar acid protein and cellular adhesion (N-CAM) in blood and surrounding fluid, as well as in human brain tumour was developed and a method of early prenatal diagnosis of embryo developmental disorders was proposed in order to prevent the birth of the underdeveloped infants.
In the present study, experimental exposures to hyperbaric oxygen (HBO2) were performed (30-min exposure to 2.8 bar (280 kPa) pure oxygen). During all phases of the experiment, blood flow velocity in the right middle cerebral artery was monitored with transcranial Doppler (TCD) sonography. Time courses of heart rate, blood pressure, respiratory rate, end-tidal CO2, and TCD mean velocity (Vmean) are described for a group of 23 subjects during uncomplicated exposure to HBO2 and for three subjects who showed signs of central nervous system (CNS) O2 toxicity, including one subject with a HBO2-induced generalized tonic-clonic seizure. Hyperbaric oxygen decreased Vmean an effect that could not completely be explained by changes in end-tidal CO2. The findings of the present study are in agreement with the concept that an increase in partial oxygen pressure is the primary factor underlying CNS O2 toxicity. Of the variables analyzed, the TCD Vmean is the most valuable variable for monitoring a HBO2 exposure. The Vmean showed the most pronounced change during HBO2 application, and in one subject a sudden increase in Vmean during HBO2 exposure heralded toxicity before clinical signs. It should be realized, however, that the small series of subjects with toxicity in this study does not allow us to draw definite conclusions.
We studied the accuracy of human subjects in perceiving the direction of self-motion from optic flow, over a range of directions contained in a 45 deg cone whose vertex was at the viewpoint. Translational optic flow fields were generated by displaying brief sequences (&lt; 1.0 sec) of randomly positioned dots expanding in a radial fashion. Subjects were asked to indicate the direction of perceived self-motion at the end the display. The data were analyzed by factoring out the constant component of the error by means of a linear regression analysis performed on the azimuthal and elevational components of the settings. The analysis of the variable error revealed that: a) the variance of the settings is 3-45% greater along elevation than azimuth for five observers; b) azimuth and elevation correspond, on average, to the principal components of the error in the settings; c) there are differences in the variances of azimuthal and elevational errors between upper and lower visual fields. Moreover, the distribution of the errors for azimuth and elevation in the upper and lower hemifields is not the same. All of the above evidence supports the hypothesis that heading information is represented centrally in terms of its azimuthal and elevational components.
Scene segmentation and perceptual grouping are important operations in visual processing. Pattern elements constituting individual perceptual objects need to be segregated from those of other objects and the background and have to be bound together for further joint evaluation. Both textural (spatial) and temporal cues are exploited for this grouping operation. Thus, pattern elements might get bound that share certain textural features and/or appear in close spatial or temporal contiguity. However, results on the involvement of temporal cues in perceptual grouping are contradictory [Kiper et al. (1991). Society for Neuroscience Abstracts, 17, 1209; Fahle (1993). Proceedings of the Royal Society of London B, 254, 199-203]. We therefore reinvestigated the relative contributions of temporal and spatial cues and their interactions in a texture-segmentation paradigm. Our data show that the visual system can segregate figures solely on the basis of temporal cues if the temporal offset between figure and ground elements exceeds 10 msec. Moreover, segregation of figures defined by orientation differences among pattern elements is facilitated by additional temporal cues if these define the same figure. If temporal and textural cues define different figures, the two cues compete and only the more salient pattern is perceived. By contrast, the detection of a figure defined by orientation is not impaired by conflicting temporal cues if these do not define a figure themselves and do not exceed offset intervals of 100 msec. These results indicate the existence of a flexible binding mechanism that exploits both temporal and textural cues either alone or in combination if they serve perceptual grouping but can exclude either of the two cues if they are in conflict or do not define a figure. It is proposed that this flexibility is achieved by the implementation of two segmentation mechanisms which differ in their sensitivity for spatial and temporal cues and interact in a facultative way.
We report that when the luminance of a homogeneous spot of light is gradually increased or decreased, there are conditions in which the brightness of the spot is spatially nonuniform. When the spot luminance is increased, brightness changes in the spot's center lag behind changes at the edge and brightness appears to sweep inward. Conversely, if the luminance of the spot is decreased, there is a relative lag in the darkening toward the center of the spot and darkness seems to spread inward. In Experiment 1 we found that with both increasing and decreasing luminance sweeps, the strength of the brightness filling effects was strongest with luminance sweep durations of 0.25-0.5 sec. In Experiment 2, the sweep duration was held constant at 0.5 sec; the filling effect was seen when the dwell time spent at each luminance step was less than about 100 msec, but nonuniformities were not observed at longer dwell times. In Experiment 3, a spot of light was positioned to surround the optic disk in one eye. Surprisingly, when the spot was luminance modulated from bright to dark, darkness appeared to sweep from the edge to the center of the modulated disk, even though most of the disk's interior was imaged on a portion of the retina devoid of photoreceptors. These findings are consistent with the hypothesis that a neural filling-in mechanism in visual cortex plays a key role in brightness perception.

The mesencephalic trigeminal nucleus (Vme) neurons are primary sensory neurons transmitting orofacial proprioceptive sensation. The neurons innervating the periodontal ligaments and the masticatory muscles are intermingled with each other in the caudal part of the Vme. After fluorescent tracers, propridium iodide and bisbenzimide were applied to the inferior alveolar nerve and the masseter nerve on the same side of the rat, and a doubled-labeled neurons were observed in ipilateral Vme, mainly in the caudal part, and a few in the middle, rostral part. This reflects simultaneous innervation of both the periodontal ligaments and the masseter spindles by collaterals of peripheral process of single Vme neurons.
Dopamine transporters (DATs) are members of the Na+- and Cl--dependent neurotransmitter and amino acid transporter family predicted by hydrophobicity analysis to have 12 transmembrane-spanning helices. The structure of DAT was studied using the photoaffinity compounds [125I]1-[2-(diphenylmethoxy)-ethyl]-4-[2-(4-azido-3-iodophenyl) ethyl] piperazine ([125I]DEEP), a 1-(2-diphenylmethoxy)-ethyl-4-(3-phenyl propyl)piperazine (GBR analog), and [125I]-3beta-(p-chlorophenyl)tropane-2beta-carboxylic acid, 4'-azido-3'-iodophenylethyl ester ([125I]RTI 82), a cocaine analog, which had been shown in a previous study to become incorporated into different regions of the DAT primary sequence. The proximity of the photolabeled binding sites to integral membrane structures was investigated by subjecting photolabeled membrane suspensions to limited proteolysis with trypsin and separately analyzing the resulting membranes and supernatants for the presence of photolabeled DAT fragments. Trypsin treatment of [125I] DEEP-labeled membranes generated labeled 45- and 14-kDa DAT fragments that immunoprecipitated with an epitope-specific antiserum generated against amino acids 42-59 near the first putative transmembrane domain, whereas [125I]RTI 82 was found in 32- and 16-kDa tryptic fragments that precipitated with an antiserum directed against a sequence near transmembrane domain 4 (amino acids 225-238). All of the photolabeled fragments were recovered in the protease-treated membranes, indicating that they possess integral membrane structures that prevent their release from the membrane as soluble forms. The size of the two smallest fragments in conjunction with their retention in the membrane suggests that incorporation of the photoaffinity ligands occurs in or near membrane spanning regions and delineates the maximum possible distance between the transmembrane structures, incorporated photolabel, and antibody epitopes. Carbohydrate analysis of the fragments identified sialic acids and N-linked oligosaccharides exclusively on the 45-kDa [125I]DEEP-labeled fragment, which, based on size, would be expected to contain four consensus glycosylation sites between putative transmembrane domains 3 and 4. Photoaffinity labeling after trypsin treatment of membranes showed that the larger but not the smaller fragments retain binding capacity, as the 45- and 32-kDa fragments were capable of becoming photolabeled. Binding of photoaffinity ligands at these fragments was displaced with the same pharmacology as that of intact DATs. These results verify numerous aspects of DAT structure and topology heretofore only predicted from theoretical considerations and extend our knowledge of DAT structure-function properties.
Ionotropic glutamate receptors are known to cluster at high concentration on the postsynaptic membrane of excitatory synapses, but the mechanism by which this occurs is poorly understood. Studies on the neuromuscular junction and central inhibitory synapses suggest that clustering of neurotransmitter receptors requires its interaction with a cytoplasmic protein. Recently, in vitro studies have shown that members of the N-methyl--aspartate (NMDA) class of glutamate receptors interact with a synapse-associated protein, SAP90 (PSD-95). However, evidence for the in vivo interaction of NMDA receptors with SAPs is still lacking. In the present study, we demonstrate the specific interaction between SAP102, a novel synapse-associated protein, and the NMDA receptor complex from the rat cortical synaptic plasma membranes using co-immunoprecipitation techniques. No association was observed between SAP102 and GluR1, a member of the alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionate class of glutamate receptors. To identify the domain on the NMDA receptor responsible for this interaction, we constructed hexahistidine fusion proteins from different regions of the NR1a and NR2 subunits of the NMDA receptor. Immunoblot overlay experiments showed that while the C-terminal domain of the NR2 subunit displayed strong binding, the NR1a intracellular C-terminal tail did not interact with SAP102. The site of interaction was more precisely located to the last 20 amino acids of the NR2 subunit as indicated by the interaction of the synthetic peptide with SAP102. In summary, we demonstrate here for the first time an in vivo interaction between the native NMDA receptor complex and a synapse-associated protein. These results suggest that SAP102 may play an important role in NMDA receptor clustering and immobilization at excitatory synapses.
Regardless of the host, the route of administration, or the speciation, aluminum is a potent neurotoxicant. In the young adult or developmentally mature host, the neuronal response to Al exposure can be dichotomized on morphological grounds. In one, intraneuronal neurofilamentous aggregates are formed, whereas in the other, significant neurochemical and neurophysiological perturbations are induced without neurofilamentous aggregate formation. Evidence is presented that the induction of neurofilamentous aggregates is a consequence of alterations in the posttranslational processing of neurofilament (NF), particularly with regard to phosphorylation state. Although Al has been reported to impact on gene expression, this does not appear to be critical to the induction of cytoskeletal pathology. In hosts responding to Al exposure without the induction of cytoskeletal pathology, impairments in glucose utilization, agonist-stimulated inositol phosphate accumulation, free radical-mediated cytotoxicity, lipid peroxidation, reduced cholinergic function, and altered protein phosphorylation have been described. The extent to which these neurochemical modifications correlate with the induction of a characteristic neurobehavioral state is unknown. In addition to these paradigms, Al is toxic in the immediate postnatal interval. Whether unique mechanisms of toxicity are involved during development remains to be determined. In this article, the mechanisms of Al neurotoxicity are reviewed and recommendations are put forth with regard to future research. Primary among these is the determination of the molecular site of Al toxicity, and whether this is based on Al substitution for divalent metals in a number of biological processes. Encompassed within this is the need to further understand the genesis of host- and developmental-specific responses.
Tourette syndrome, a chronic tic disorder with autosomal dominant inheritance, exhibits considerable phenotypic variability even within monozygotic twin pairs. The origins of this variability remain unclear. Recent findings have implicated the caudate nucleus as a locus of pathology, and pharmacological evidence supports dopaminergic involvement. Within monozygotic twins discordant for Tourette syndrome severity, differences in D2 dopamine receptor binding in the head of the caudate nucleus predicted differences in phenotypic severity (r = 0.99); this relation was not observed in putamen. These data may link Tourette syndrome with a spectrum of neuropsychiatric disorders that involve associative striatal circuitry.
The novel radioligand [3H]PD140376 was used to label receptors that bind cholecystokinin (CCK) and related peptides in membranes prepared from guinea-pig brain and gastric glands. Under control conditions, measurements of the apparent affinity of 11 agonist and 16 antagonist ligands in both tissues revealed a strong positive relationship between the affinity of a compound in either tissue (slope of the regression line = 0.89, r2 = 0.908). Agonists consistently showed higher affinity for sites in gastric glands compared to brain. If agonists were excluded from the analysis, the degree of correspondence between affinities measured in each tissue was almost perfect (slope = 0.93, r2 = 0.986). In the presence of the guanyl nucleotide 5'-guanylimidodiphosphate (GppNHp), agonist affinity in gastric glands, but not brain, was reduced such that there was a direct relationship between binding affinity in each tissue. These data are consistent with the notion that the receptor sites in brain and gastric glands, which recognise CCK and gastrin related compounds, are the same and of the CCK-B/gastrin subtype. The receptors in the two respective tissues, however, do appear to differ in the degree of post-receptor coupling. These findings may explain previously reported differences between gastrin and CCK-B receptors that were based upon binding studies using agonist ligands.
Neurons in different regions of the rat thalamic reticular nucleus were labeled with biotin dextran amine and reconstructed. When viewed in coronal section, some neurons had a radial dendritic tree while others had dorso-ventrally elongated arbors. When rotated, all the neurons had a planar, disc-shaped dendritic field with the dendrites orientated parallel to the long axis of the nucleus. We conclude that all thalamic reticular nucleus neurons have a similar dendritic morphology and orientation.
Using an antiserum raised against Lys- gamma 2-melanocyte-stimulating hormone (Lys- gamma 2-MSH), with a high specificity for this peptide and its des-Lys derivative, gamma 2-MSH, we found Lys- gamma 2-MSH-like immunoreactivity to have a widespread distribution in the rat brain. In colchicine-treated rats, groups of immunopositive cell bodies were found in the intermediate and anterior lobes of the pituitary gland, in the hypothalamic arcuate nucleus and in the commissural part of the nucleus of the solitary tract (NTS). Immunopositive fibers were found to originate from the latter two cell body regions. The distribution of these fibers was similar to that of the pro-opiomelanocortin containing cell bodies and projections as it has been described previously. Immunopositive terminals were found in brain region containing neurons which have been shown to express mRNA for melanocortin receptors, though the distribution of Lys-gamma 2-MSH-like immunoreactivity is considerably more widespread than that of mRNA for the 'gamma-MSH receptor' (the melanocortin MC3 receptor), which has been reported to be mainly expressed in the hypothalamus. In the periphery Lys-gamma 2-MSH immunoreactivity was localized in the adrenal medulla and in neuronal fibers and varicosities in the heart. The vascular system, the bronchi and kidney were immunonegative. The occurrence of Lys-gamma 2-MSH immunoreactivity in many of the brain regions which are involved in cardiovascular regulation offers leads for further studies on the putative role of gamma-MSHs in cardiovascular control. The occurrence in the rat heart of Lys-gamma 2-MSH-containing fibers suggests a role of the gamma-MSHs in cardiac function.
Many of the analgesic effects of opiate drugs and of endogenous opioid ligands, such as Leu5-enkephalin (LE) are thought to be mediated in part by mu-opioid receptors (MOR) in the dorsal horn of the spinal cord. To establish the cellular sites for the spinally mediated analgesic effects of MOR activation and the potential anatomical substrates for interactions with LE, we examined the ultrastructural localization of MOR and LE immunoreactivities in the adult rat cervical spinal cord (C3-C5). Anti-MOR sera recognizing the carboxyl terminal domain of MOR was localized using immunoperoxidase and immunogold-silver methods. mu-opioid receptor-like immunoreactivity (MOR-LI) was observed mainly in the superficial layers of the dorsal horn. Electron microscopy of this region revealed that small unmyelinated axons and axon terminals constituted 48% (91/189) and 15% (28/189), respectively, while dendrites comprised 36% (68/189) of the total population of neuronal profiles containing the MOR. MOR-LI was localized mainly along extrasynaptic portions of the plasma membrane in both axons and dendrites. In sections dually labeled for MOR and LE, 21% (14/68) of the dendrites containing MOR-LI closely apposed or received synaptic contact from axon terminals exhibiting LE reaction product. The results provide the first ultrastructural evidence that within the dorsal horn of the spinal cord, LE, as well as exogenous opiates may alter both axonal release of neurotransmitters and postsynaptic responsiveness of target neurons to afferent input through activation of extrasynaptic MOR.

The concentration of tau protein is elevated in the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) in Alzheimer's disease (AD), suggesting that CSF tau may be a useful biochemical diagnostic marker for this disorder. We investigated CSF tau concentrations on two occasions in AD (n = 18), mild cognitive impairment (MCI, n = 9) and other dementing disease (OD, n = 9) by ELISA (Innotest hTau Antigen, Innogenetics, Belgium). Tau levels were statistically significant higher in the AD group than in MCI and OD groups on both occasions. Twelve of the AD patients showed increasing values of tau at follow-up and six demonstrated diminished values. All AD patients with increasing tau were carriers of one or two epsilon 4 alleles of the apolipoprotein E (APOE, gene. Of those AD cases with decreasing tau levels only three individuals had the epsilon 4 allele, a difference that was statistically significant (P &lt; 0.05). These findings suggest that there may be apolipoprotein E (apoE) isoform-specific differences of tau regulation in AD.
Although neurons in primary visual cortex are sensitive to the spatial distribution and intensity of light, their responses have not been thought to correlate with the perception of brightness. Indeed, primary visual cortex is often described as an initial processing stage that sends information to higher cortical areas where perception of brightness, color, and form occurs. However, a significant percentage of neurons in primary visual cortex were shown to respond in a manner correlated with perceived brightness, rather than responding strictly to the light level in the receptive fields of the cells. This finding suggests that even at the first stage of visual cortical processing, spatial integration of information yields perceptual qualities that are only indirectly related to the pattern of illumination of the retina.
We tested whether induction of homosynaptic long-term potentiation and long-term depression of synaptic strength in posterior cingulate cortex requires NMDA and/or metabotropic glutamate (mGlu) receptor activation. In in-vitro slices of rat posterior cingulate cortex, the NMDA receptor antagonist D-2-amino-5-phosphonopentanoic acid (D-AP5; 15-20 microM) blocked induction of both long-term potentiation and long-term depression of mono- and polysynaptic population potentials in deep laminae. In contrast, DL-2-amino-3-phosphonopropionic acid (DL-AP3; 15-25 microM), a selective mGlu receptor antagonist, blocked homosynaptic long-term potentiation and long-term depression of monosynaptic transmission, but was ineffective in blocking the induction of either type of plasticity at polysynaptically-driven sites. The selective mGlu receptor agonist, trans-1-aminocyclopentane-1,3-dicarboxylic acid (ACPD), induced a marked depression of subicular-evoked monosynaptic potentials which reversed upon drug washout, but produced little depression of polysynaptic responses. We conclude that metabotropic glutamate receptor activation is necessary for the induction of long-term synaptic plasticity only at monosynaptic subiculo-cingulate terminals, while NMDA receptor activation is necessary for the induction of long-term potentiation/long-term depression of both mono- and polysynaptic pathways.
N-Methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptors are blocked at hyperpolarizing potentials by extracellular Mg ions. Here we present a detailed kinetic analysis of the Mg block in recombinant wild-type and mutant NMDA receptors. We find that the Mg binding site is the same in the wild-type and native hippocampal NMDA receptor channels. In the mutant channels, however, Mg ions bind with a 10-fold lower affinity. On the basis of these results, we propose that the energy well at the Mg binding site in the mutants is shallow and the binding is unstable because of an increase in the rate of dissociation. We postulate that the dipole formed by the amide group of asparagine 614 of the epsilon 1 subunit contributes to the structure of the binding site but predict that additional ligands will be involved in coordinating Mg ions.
Rapid progress in effective methods to image brain functions has revolutionized neuroscience. It is now possible to study noninvasively in humans neural processes that were previously only accessible in experimental animals and in brain-injured patients. In this endeavor, positron emission tomography has been the leader, but the superconducting quantum interference device-based magnetoencephalography (MEG) is gaining a firm role, too. With the advent of instruments covering the whole scalp, MEG, typically with 5-mm spatial and 1-ms temporal resolution, allows neuroscientists to track cortical functions accurately in time and space. We present five representative examples of recent MEG studies in our laboratory that demonstrate the usefulness of whole-head magnetoencephalography in investigations of spatiotemporal dynamics of cortical signal processing.
Although the cholecystokinin octapeptide (CCK-8) is reported to antagonize the kappa-opioid-receptor-mediated analgesic effect in spinal cord, its mechanism and sites of action remain obscure. In the present study, the whole-cell patch-clamp recording technique was employed to examine the effect of kappa-opioid agonist U50488H on voltage-gated calcium channels and the interaction between the CCK-8 and U50488H in acutely isolated rat dorsal root ganglion neurons. The results indicate that the calcium currents elicited in dorsal root ganglion neurons can be depressed by U50488H, an effect readily reversed by the kappa-opioid receptor antagonist Nor-BNI or by the antiopioid peptide CCK-8. The effect of the CCK-8 can be abolished by the CCK-B receptor antagonist, L365,260. While CCK-8 showed a potent opioid-reversal effect, it by itself exerted a slight inhibitory effect on calcium current. This novel observation in the dorsal root ganglion neurons indicates that CCK-8 can antagonize the kappa-opioid-receptor-mediated depressant effect on voltage-gated calcium current, and this antagonizing effect appears to be mediated via CCK-B receptor.
In anesthetized and ventilated rats, activation of carotid chemoreceptors with intracarotid administration of 100 nmol sodium cyanide rapidly excited the spinal cord-projecting vasomotor neurons in the rostroventrolateral reticular nucleus (RVL) of the medulla oblongata and sympathetic nerves and increased arterial pressure. The chemoreflex sympathoexcitatory pressor responses were attenuated by an acute systemic administration of ethanol at 0.45 g/kg, but not at 45 mg/kg. The ethanol effects were observed at the level of RVL-spinal vasomotor neurons, in attenuating the neuronal responses to the chemoreflex excitation and direct iontophoresis of N-methyl-D-aspartic acid (NMDA) but without altering responses of the carotid sinus nerves to intracarotid cyanide. The effect of ethanol on the RVL neurons was further defined as blocking NMDA-evoked inward current in the corresponding spontaneously active RVL neurons in vitro. The results indicate that acute ethanol intoxication markedly influences NMDA receptor activation and arterial chemoreflexes. The relevance of the type of action to clinical hypertension in chronic and heavy drinkers is discussed.
Thyrotropin-releasing hormone (TRH) has been found to be widely distributed in the mammalian central nervous system. Further, the concentration of the tripeptide increases following seizure activity, and TRH is known to have anticonvulsant effects. We have investigated the possibility that the anticonvulsant activity of TRH may be due, at least in part, to an attenuation of the glutamate-stimulated increases in intraneuronal Ca2+ ([Ca]i) that occur with epileptic activity. We find that the tripeptide does not itself excite neurons and that it is able to significantly reduce glutamate-stimulated increases in [Ca]i in cultured neurons derived from fetal rat forebrain. Increases in the concentration of TRH following seizure activity may represent an endogenous homeostatic mechanism for reducing glutamate-induced elevations in intraneuronal Ca2+.
Possible synergistic effects of the glucocorticoid dexamethasone (DEX, 10(-7) M) and the adenylate cyclase agonist forskolin (FSK, 10(-5) M) on [Met5]enkephalin (ME) accumulation were examined in enriched rat glial cultures and in mixed neuronal/glial cultures. In enriched glial cultures, DEX and FSK each stimulated the accumulation of ME 2-3-fold over basal media levels, but there was little additional stimulation when these agonists were combined. In contrast, mixed neuronal/glial cultures showed only weak responses to DEX or FSK alone, but the combination of these agonists produced a pronounced synergistic effect on media ME accumulation (6-10-fold over basal levels). The DEX effect was mediated via a classical glucocorticoid receptor, since DEX was potent (acting over a concentration range of 10(-11)-10(-7) M), mimicked by corticosterone (10(-6) M), and blocked by the glucocorticoid receptor antagonist RU486. There was a pronounced time lag (2 days) for the synergistic effects of DEX + FSK to develop. In situ hybridization and immunocytochemical studies suggested that astrocytes were the major source for the increased ME production in all mixed neuronal/glial cultures examined. Creating a mixed culture by plating fetal neurons onto confluent, enriched P7 glial cultures inhibited accumulation of ME in the media. DEX + FSK, but neither agonist alone, overcame this neuronal inhibition and increased accumulation of media ME to levels identical to levels in stimulated enriched glial cultures. The net effect was a 6-fold increase in ME accumulation in the mixed neuronal/glial cultures relative to a 2.5-fold increase in the enriched glial cultures. Neuronal inhibition of basal glial ME production could explain the similar synergistic effects of DEX + FSK observed in all mixed neuronal/glial cultures examined, and may be important in suppressing ME production by astrocytes in the brain.
A cDNA from salmon brain which induces a consistent activation of Ca2+ dependent Cl- (Ca(2+)-Cl-) current in Xenopus oocytes in the saline solution was isolated by an expression cloning method. The primary structure showed a high homology with the metabotropic glutamate receptors (mGluR), and a limited homology with the Ca2+/polyvalent cation receptors (CaR). The encoded protein was functionally characterized for the sensitivity to extracellular Ca2+ (Cao2+), and the consistent activation of Ca(2+)-Cl- current was determined to be due to Ca2+ contained in the saline solution. It was also confirmed that the encoded protein has a function to sense glutamate. An increase in inositol 1,4,5-triphosphate turnover was observed when either Ca2+ or glutamate was applied. Thus, the encoded protein was identified as a bifunctional metabotropic receptor for both Ca2+ and glutamate. In addition, rat mGluR1 alpha was also shown to be activated by Cao2+. This is the first report of a G-protein coupled receptor which is activated by two totally different physiological agonists.
Immunohistochemistry was used to investigate the neuroanatomical distribution of androgen and estrogen receptors in brains of adult male roughskin newts, Taricha granulosa, collected during the breeding season. Immunoreactive cells were found to be widely distributed in specific brain areas of this urodele amphibian. Androgen receptor-immunoreactive (AR-ir) cells were observed in the olfactory bulbs, habenula, pineal body, preoptic area, hypothalamus, interpeduncular nucleus, area acusticolateralis, cerebellum, and motor nuclei of the medulla oblongata. Estrogen receptor-immunoreactive (ER-ir) cells were found in the lateral septum, amygdala pars lateralis, pallium, preoptic area, hypothalamus, and dorsal mesencephalic tegmentum. This immunocytochemical study of the newt brain reveals AR-ir and ER-ir cells in several regions that have not been previously reported to contain androgen and estrogen receptors in non-mammalian vertebrates. Additionally, the distribution of AR-ir and ER-ir cells in the newt brain, in general, is consistent with previous studies, suggesting that the distribution of sex steroid receptor-containing neurons in some brain regions is relatively conserved among vertebrates.
Cyclophilin A is a small, soluble protein which binds the immunosuppressive drug cyclosporin A. Cyclophilin A is a peptidyl-prolyl isomerase and is widely expressed in a multitude of tissues, but is present in highest concentration in the brain. A role for this protein in the maturation and folding of neuron-specific membrane proteins has been hypothesized. Immunohistochemical staining for cyclophilin A was used to determine whether cyclophilin A is present in neurons, and whether there is variation in the level of expression with respect to brain regions and cell types. The specificity of the antibody used was demonstrated by Western blot analysis and cyclosporin affinity purification. Immunohistochemical staining of sections of adult rat brain showed labelled neurons throughout the neuraxis. The intensity of the immunostaining observed was roughly equivalent to neuronal cell density and was restricted to gray matter. On a cellular level, staining was present in cytosol and nuclei and extended into neuronal processes. Fluorescent double-labelling experiments on hippocampal cell cultures revealed that all cells labelled with the cyclophilin A antibody also showed staining for the neuron-specific marker for microtubule-associated protein (MAP)2, and could, therefore, be identified as neurons. Immunoreactivity in these neurons is present in punctate, spinelike structures along dendrites. Cyclophilin A immunoreactivity was undetectable in glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP)-positive cells. The pattern of cyclophilin. A expression is consistent with a role of cyclophilin A in neuronal protein maturation and folding in vivo.
In the lamprey spinal cord, dopamine- (DA) and 5-hydroxytryptamine-(5-HT) containing cells appear to play an important role in controlling the firing properties of motoneurons and interneurons and, thereby, in modulating the efferent motor pattern. To determine the detailed morphology and synaptic connectivity of the intraspinal DA and 5-HT systems in Lampetra fluviatilis and Ichthyomyzon unicuspis, DA and 5-HT antisera were used in light and electron microscopic immunocytochemical experiments. Two main groups of labeled cells were distinguished: DA-containing liquor-contacting (LC) cells distributed along the central canal, and 5-HT+DA-containing multipolar cells located near the midline ventral to the central canal. Both types were synaptically connected with other neuronal elements. The DA-immunoreactive LC cells, which extended a ciliated process into the central canal, received symmetrical synapses from unlabeled terminals containing small synaptic vesicles. The distal process of the LC cells could be traced to the lateral cell column, to the ventral aspect of the dorsal column, or to the ventromedial area. Ultrastructural analysis of DA fibers in these regions showed the presence of labeled terminals containing numerous small synaptic vesicles and a few dense-core vesicles. These terminals formed symmetrical synapses with unlabeled cell bodies and dendrites, with GABA-immunopositive LC cells, and with the multipolar DA+5-HT cells. The multipolar DA+5-HT cells also received input from unlabeled synapses. Intracellular recording from these cells showed that they received excitatory postsynaptic potentials in response to stimulation of fibers in the ventromedial tracts and dorsal roots. The terminals of the multipolar DA+5-HT neurons in the ventromedial spinal cord contained numerous dense-core vesicles and small synaptic vesicles, but no synaptic specializations could be detected. In addition, a small number of larger DA-immunoreactive cells were observed in the lateral cell column at rostral levels. The lamprey spinal cord thus contains distinct populations of synaptically interconnected monoaminergic neurons. Dopamine-containing LC cells synapse onto DA+5-HT-containing multipolar cells, in addition to GABAergic LC cells and unidentified spinal neurons. In contrast, the multipolar cells appear to exert their influence by nonsynaptic mechanisms.

Retinoic acid, a developmental signal implicated in the formation of the neural axis, is present at high levels in the early embryonic trunk region, where it is synthesized by a novel dehydrogenase. Here we show that the same enzyme is inducible by retinoic acid in P19 teratocarcinoma cells, and we report the cloning from P19 cells of a cDNA encoding a novel dehydrogenase, named retinaldehyde dehydrogenase-2 (RALDH-2). Expression in COS cells shows RALDH-2 to be highly effective in oxidation of retinaldehyde, with no detectable activity on any other aldehyde tested. In situ hybridization histochemistry on the embryonic trunk reveals RALDH-2 mRNA both in mesoderm and neuroectoderm, with highest neuroectodermal expression in the ventral horn of the spinal cord at two restricted locations along the anteroposterior axis, presumably the subpopulation of motoneurons that innervate the limbs.
The effects of ethanol on N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) and non-NMDA receptor agonist-stimulated activator protein-1 (AP-1) DNA binding activity in primary cultures of rat cerebellar granule cells were investigated. The application of intoxicating concentrations of ethanol produced a concentration-dependent inhibition of NMDA-enhanced AP-1 binding with a significant reduction obtained at 50 mM ethanol. The inhibitory actions of ethanol on alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazole propionic acid (AMPA)-stimulated AP-1 binding were considerably weaker as compared to the effects seen following administration of NMDA. The AMPA-induced enhancement of AP-1 DNA binding activity was demonstrated both in the absence and presence of cyclothiazide, a drug, which is known to block the desensitization of AMPA receptors. Our data suggest that moderate concentrations of ethanol modulate glutamate-induced alterations of gene expression in brain neurons.
The inhibitory potencies of 6-(1H-imidazol-1-yl)-7-nitro-2,3(1H,4H)-quinoxalinedione hydrochloride (YM90K), 2-3,dihydroxy-6-nitro-7-sulfamoyl-benzo(F)quinoxaline (NBQX) and 1-(4-amino-phenyl)-4-methyl-7,8-methyl-endioxyl-5H-2,3-benzodiazep ine (GYKI 52466) at excitatory amino acid receptors were examined in rat cortical mRNA-injected Xenopus oocytes using a two-electrode voltage clamp. Schild analysis of YM90K and NBQX inhibition of kainate currents yielded pA2 values of 6.83 +/- 0.01 and 7.24 +/- 0.01, respectively. GYKI 52466 reduced the maximum kainate response and increased the kainate EC50 in a dose-dependent manner, suggesting that the antagonism of AMPA receptors by GYKI 52466 is mixed competitive and non-competitive for kainate. Schild analysis of YM90K and NBQX inhibition of kainate currents in the presence of 30 microM cyclothiazide yielded pA2 values of 6.62 +/- 0.03 (slope: 1.02 +/- 0.01) and 7.10 +/- 0.02 (slope: 1.00 +/- 0.02), respectively, consistent with competitive antagonism. Cyclothiazide potentiated the AMPA response as well as the kainate response and increased the apparent Hill coefficients in a concentration-dependent manner. The potency of YM90K to inhibit AMPA-induced current could be reduced by increasing the concentration of cyclothiazide. We showed that YM90K is a potent and competitive antagonist for AMPA receptors and the apparent affinity of competitive antagonists was reduced by cyclothiazide. Cyclothiazide can affect the interaction between receptors and both agonists and antagonists, suggesting that it might allosterically alter the affinity of agonists and competitive antagonists for their binding site on the AMPA receptor complex.
Axon caliber may be influenced by intrinsic neuronal factors and extrinsic factors related to myelination. To understand these extrinsic influences, we studied how axon-caliber expansion is related to changes in neurofilament and microtubule organization as axons of retinal ganglion cells interact with oligodendroglia and become myelinated during normal mouse brain development. Caliber expanded and neurofilaments accumulated only along regions of the axon invested with oligodendroglia. Very proximal portions of axons within a region of the optic nerve from which oligodendrocytes are excluded remained unchanged. More distally, these axons rapidly expanded an average of fourfold as soon as they were recruited to become myelinated between postnatal days 9 and 120. Unmyelinated axons remained unchanged. Axons ensheathed by oligodendroglial processes, but not yet myelinated, were intermediate in caliber and neurofilament number. That oligodendrocytes can trigger regional caliber expansion in the absence of myelin was confirmed using three strains of mice with different mutations that prevent myelin formation but allow wrapping of some axons by oligodendroglial processes. Unmyelinated axons persistently wrapped by oligodendrocytes showed full axon caliber expansion, neurofilament accumulation, and appropriately increased lateral spacing between neurofilaments. Thus, signals from oligodendrocytes, independent of myelin formation, are sufficient to induce full axon radial growth primarily by triggering local accumulation and reorganization of the neurofilament network.
Physiological studies have indicated that agonists at the mu-opioid receptor (mu OR), such as morphine or the endogenous peptide methionine5-enkephalin, can markedly decrease the spontaneous activity of noradrenergic neurons in the locus coeruleus (LC). Messenger RNA and protein for mu OR are also densely expressed by LC neurons. During opiate withdrawal, increased discharge rates of LC neurons coincide with the expression of behavioral features associated with the opiate withdrawal syndrome. To better define the cellular sites for the physiological activation of mu OR in the LC and its relation to afferent terminals, we examined the ultrastructural localization of mu OR immunoreactivity in sections dually labeled for the catecholamine-synthesizing enzyme tyrosine hydroxylase (TH). Immunogold-silver labeling for mu OR (i-mu OR) was localized to parasynaptic and extrasynaptic portions of the plasma membranes of perikarya and dendrites, many of which also contained immunolabeling for TH. The dendrites containing exclusively i-mu OR were more numerous in the rostral pole of the LC. The i-mu OR in dendrites with and without detectable TH immunoreactivity were usually postsynaptic to unlabeled axon terminals containing heterogeneous types of synaptic vesicles and forming asymmetric synaptic specializations characteristic of excitatory-type synapses. These results provide the first direct ultrastructural evidence that mu OR is strategically localized to modulate the postsynaptic excitatory responses of catecholamine-containing neurons in the LC.
The mechanisms by which neurons die after cerebral ischemia and related conditions in vivo are unclear, but they are thought to involve voltage-dependent Na+ channels, glutamate receptors, and nitric oxide (NO) formation because selective inhibition of each provides neuroprotection. It is not known precisely what their roles are, nor whether they interact within a single cascade or in parallel pathways. These questions were investigated using an in vitro primary cell culture model in which striatal neurons undergo a gradual and delayed neurodegeneration after a brief (5 min) challenge with the glutamate receptor agonist NMDA. Unexpectedly, NO was generated continuously by the cultures for up to 16 hr after the NMDA exposure. Neuronal death followed the same general time course except that its start was delayed by approximately 4 hr. Application of the NO synthase inhibitor nitroarginine after, but not during, the NMDA exposure inhibited NO formation and protected against delayed neuronal death. Blockade of NMDA receptors or of voltage-sensitive Na+ channels [with tetrodotoxin (TTX)] during the postexposure period also inhibited both NO formation and cell death. The NMDA exposure resulted in a selective accumulation of glutamate in the culture medium during the period preceding cell death. This glutamate release could be inhibited by NMDA antagonism or by TTX, but not by nitroarginine. These data suggest that Na+ channels, glutamate receptors, and NO operate interdependently and sequentially to cause neurodegeneration. At the core of the mechanism is a vicious cycle in which NMDA receptor stimulation causes activation of TTX-sensitive Na+ channels, leading to glutamate release and further NMDA receptor stimulation. The output of the cycle is an enduring production of NO from neuronal sources, and this is responsible for delayed neuronal death. The same neurons, however, could be induced to undergo more rapid NMDA receptor-dependent death that required neither TTX-sensitive Na+ channels nor NO.
The myomodulin family of neuropeptides is an important group of neural cotransmitters in molluscs and is known to be present in the neural network that controls feeding behavior in the snail Lymnaea. Here we show that a single gene encodes five structurally similar forms of myomodulin: GLQMLRLamide, QIPMLRLamide, SMSMLRLamide, SLSMLRLamide, and PMSMLRLamide, the latter being present in nine copies. Analysis of the organization of the gene indicates that it is transcribed as a single spliced transcript from an upstream promoter region that contains multiple cAMP-responsive elements, as well as putative elements with homology to tissue-specific promoter-binding sites. The presence in nervous tissue of two of the peptides, GLQMLRLamide and PMSMLRLamide, is confirmed by mass spectrometry. In situ hybridization analysis indicates that the gene is expressed in specific cells in all ganglia of the CNS of Lymnaea, which will allow physiological analysis of the function of myomodulins at the level of single identified neurons.
1. We sought to determine whether hypoxic stimulation of neurons of the rostral ventrolateral reticular nucleus (RVL) would elevate regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF) in anaesthetized paralysed rats. 2. Microinjection of sodium cyanide (NaCN; 150-450 pmol) into the RVL rapidly (within 1-2 s), transiently, dose-dependently and site-specifically elevated rCBF1 measured by laser Doppler flowmetry, by 61.3 +/- 22.1% (P &lt; 0.01), increased arterial pressure (AP; +30 +/- 8 mmHg; P &lt; 0.01)1 and triggered a synchronized 6 Hz rhythm of EEG activity. 3. Following cervical spinal cord transection, NaCN and also dinitrophenol (DNP) significantly (P &lt; 0.05) elevated rCBF and synchronized the EEG but did not elevate AP; the response to NaCN was attenuated by hyperoxia and deepening of anaesthesia. 4. Electrical stimulation of NaCN-sensitive sites in the RVL in spinalized rats increased rCBF measured autoradiographically with 14C iodoantipyrine (Kety method) in the mid-line thalamus (by 182.3 +/- 17.2%; P &lt; 0.05) and cerebral cortex (by 172.6 +/- 15.6%; P &lt; 0.05) regions, respectively, directly or indirectly innervated by RVL neurons, and in the remainder of the brain. In contrast regional cerebral glucose utilization (rCGU), measured autoradiographically with 14C-2-deoxyglucose (Sokoloff method), was increased in proportion to rCBF in the mid-line thalamus (165.6 +/- 17.8%, P &lt; 0.05) but was unchanged in the cortex. 5. Bilateral electrolytic lesions of NaCN sensitive sites of RVL, while not altering resting rCBF or the elevation elicited by hypercarbia (arterial CO2 pressure, Pa,CO2, approximately 69 mmHg), reduced the vasodilatation elicited by normocapnic hypoxaemia (arterial O2 pressure, Pa,O2, approximately 27 mmHg) by 67% (P &lt; 0.01) and flattened the slope of the Pa,O2-rCBF response curve. 6. We conclude that the elevation of rCBF produced in the cerebral cortex by hypoxaemia is in large measure neurogenic, mediated trans-synaptically over intrinsic neuronal pathways, and initiated by excitation of oxygen sensitive neurons in the RVL.
The levels of nitric oxide (NO) and NO synthase (NOS) activities were compared in the brains of young adult (3 months old), aged (11 months old) and TJ-960 administered (11 months old) senescence accelerated mice (SAM), of which the SAMP8 substrain is inferior in acquisition of learning due to the abnormality of glutamatergic neurotransmission in the cerebral cortex. TJ-960, which is based on the Kampo (Japanese traditional herbal medicine) prescription Sho-saiko-to-go-keishi-ka-shakuyaku-to, acts as a superoxide radical scavenger and attenuates the deterioration of neuronal activity associated with aging. We administered TJ-960 orally for 5 months. In the cerebral cortex of aged SAMP8, NOS activity was increased compared with that of young adult SAMP8. Though TJ-960 did not alter the contents of NO in any brain region compared with those in aged SAMP8, it did prevent the increase in NOS activity in the aged cerebral cortex. Our data suggest that NOS activity may increase to compensate for the reduced sensitivity of the NO reaction system in the aging process, and that TJ-960 may normalize this increased NOS activity in the cerebral cortex, although further work is clearly needed to ascertain maintenance in the acquisition of learning.
The prefrontal cortex is important in the organization of goal-directed behaviour. When animals are trained to work for a particular goal or reward, reward 'expectancy' is processed by prefrontal neurons. Recent studies of the prefrontal cortex have concentrated on the role of working memory in the control of behaviour. In spatial delayed-response tasks, neurons in the prefrontal cortex show activity changes during the delay period between presentation of the cue and the reward, with some of the neurons being spatially specific (that is, responses vary with the cue position). Here I report that the delay activity in prefrontal neurons is dependent also on the particular reward received for the behavioural response, and to the way the reward is given. It seems that the prefrontal cortex may monitor the outcome of goal-directed behaviour.
The human visual system is proficient in perceiving three-dimensional shape from the shading patterns in a two-dimensional image. How it does this is not well understood and continues to be a question of fundamental and practical interest. In this paper we present a new quantitative approach to shape-from-shading that may provide some answers. We suggest that the brain, through evolution or prior experience, has discovered that objects can be classified into lower-dimensional object-classes as to their shape. Extraction of shape from shading is then equivalent to the much simpler problem of parameter estimation in a low-dimensional space. We carry out this proposal for an important class of three-dimensional (3D) objects: human heads. From an ensemble of several hundred laser-scanned 3D heads, we use principal component analysis to derive a low-dimensional parameterization of head shape space. An algorithm for solving shape-from-shading using this representation is presented. It works well even on real images where it is able to recover the 3D surface for a given person, maintaining facial detail and identity, from a single 2D image of his face. This algorithm has applications in face recognition and animation.
We have examined the in vivo targeting potential of the Pleckstrin Homology (PH) domain from human beta I sigma II spectrin using a novel Aequoria victoria green fluorescent protein (GFP) fusion vector constructed from a human codon optimized cDNA. This vector efficiently expresses both GFP and the GFP spectrin fusion protein in COS7 and other cell lines. GFP expressed alone shows only diffuse cytoplasmic staining which is not associated with the plasma membrane. In contrast the GFP-beta I sigma II spectrin PH domain fusion protein localizes under the plasma membrane of transfected COS7 cells in vivo. Fixation of cells transfected with GFP alone in -20 degrees C methanol results in the removal of all specific fluorescence. In contrast cells transfected with the GFP-beta I sigma II spectrin construct and fixed -20 degrees C methanol continue to show strong membrane fluorescence, consistent with a role for the spectrin PH domain in membrane localization in vivo.
Ethanol and nerve growth factor (NGF) affect the survival of septohippocampal (SH) neurons. The effect of ethanol and NGF on calcium (Ca2+) homeostasis in these neurons was investigated in this study. Changes in intracellular-free Ca2+ concentration ([Ca2+]i) were measured using indo-1 in cultured embryonic (E21) SH neurons before stimulation (basal) and during stimulation with 30 mM potassium cloride (KCl+). SH neurons were treated with 0, 100, 200, 400, or 800 mg% ethanol with NGF (+NGF) or without NGF (-NGF). NGF treatment decreased, while ethanol did not affect basal [Ca2+]i. The combination of ethanol and NGF treatment led to increases in basal [Ca2+]i. While [Ca2+]i was lower during stimulation with KCl+ following ethanol or NGF treatment, ethanol and NGF treatment together led to significantly greater increases or decreases in [Ca2+]i compared to similarly treated NGF neurons. Responses of SH neurons were compared to those of medial septal (MS) neurons. Changes in [Ca2+]i during treatment with ethanol and/or NGF were reduced in SH neurons compared with MS neurons. We conclude that changes in Ca2+ homeostasis can occur in SH neurons in the presence of ethanol and/or NGF. The changes following ethanol treatment are enhanced by NGF. By altering Ca2+ homeostasis, NGF may enhance the survival of SH neurons during ethanol-induced neurotoxicity.
During development, many sympathetic and sensory neurons are dependent on nerve growth factor (NGF) for survival. The low affinity neurotrophin receptor (p75), expressed in these neurons, is regulated by exogenous NGF in vitro and in vivo. However, whether p75 expression in vivo is under the control of endogenous NGF has not been determined. The role of NGF in regulating the expression of p75 in sympathetic and sensory nerves was investigated in Sprague-Dawley rats treated with an antiserum specific for NGF. P75 was differentially regulated. P75 immunoreactivity (-ir) within sympathetic neurons in the superior cervical ganglia (SCG) was reduced after 2 days, and disappeared after 5 days, of treatment with the NGF antiserum. In contrast, a significant increase in p75-ir was detected in nerve bundles within and close to the SCG from 3 to 14 days after treatment. A similar pattern of p75 expression was observed in the stellate and coeliac ganglia. In contrast, p75 expression in nerve terminals of the mesenteric arteries and irides was reduced. However, in the same animals the expression of p75 was not significantly affected by the treatment in dorsal root, trigeminal or nodose ganglia, salivary gland or small intestine. In contrast to p75, the NGF high affinity receptor trkA was little affected in sympathetic neurons by depletion of endogenous NGF for 2 weeks. These results indicate that endogenous NGF is required in sympathetic ganglia for the expression of p75 but not trkA in neurons, but for the down-regulation of p75 in glia. In contrast, endogenous NGF is not essential for the regulation of p75 in neurons or glia within sensory ganglia.
Functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) at 1.5 T using a gradient echo echo-planar sequence was employed to identify brain regions activated during the performance of a mental writing task using phonograms. Four regions were activated in all six subjects; the region surrounding the left intraparietal sulcus, the region surrounding the middle part of the left precentral sulcus and the posterior part of the left superior frontal sulcus, the region surrounding the right intraparietal sulcus, and the region surrounding either or both of the left and right cingulate sulci. The left intraparietal region was usually the most extensively activated. The results suggest that these four regions particularly the left intraparietal region, are essential in writing with phonograms. Since the left hemisphere was more extensively activated than the right, fMRI during the mental writing task is a good candidate for determining non-invasively which hemisphere is dominant for language.
The neurochemical alterations preceding neurological dysfunction and neuronal death in prion diseases are not well characterized. Here we examined, using in situ hybridization histochemistry, the expression of neuropeptide Y (NPY), an inducible and abundant neuropeptide in mammalian brain with known neuroregulatory functions, and glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP), a marker for astroglial activation, in the hippocampus at different time points following intracerebral prion inoculation in male CD-1 mice. Between 110 and 140 days postinoculation NPY mRNA expression was specifically up-regulated in CA3 pyramidal neurones, whereas expression of NPY in hilar neurones remained unaltered. Up-regulation of GFAP mRNA was observed in the CA1 stratum radiatum at 60 days, and spread throughout the hippocampus, cortex and thalamus between 110 and 140 days, suggesting early accumulation of scrapie prion protein in these regions. The clinical symptoms were first manifested 120 days postinoculation. Aberrant induction of NPY mRNA in the hippocampal CA3 pyramidal neurones preceded the onset of neurological symptoms, and may be involved in the regulation of glutamate release at the Schaffer collateral-CA1 synapses in scrapie-infected mice.
The present study demonstrates that stereoselective binding sites for anandamide, a naturally occurring cannabinoid substance, can be found in invertebrate immunocytes and microglia. The anandamide-binding site is monophasic and of high affinity, exhibiting a Kd of 34.3 nM with a Bmax of 441 fmol/mg protein. These sites are highly selective, as demonstrated by the inability of other types of signaling molecules to displace [3H]anandamide. Furthermore, this binding site is coupled to nitric oxide release in the invertebrate tissues examined as well as in human monocytes. Interestingly, the cannabinoid-stimulated release of nitric oxide initiates cell rounding. Thus, these cannabinoid actions resemble those of opiate alkaloids. In this regard, we demonstrate that these signaling systems use the same effector system, i.e. nitric oxide release, but separate receptors. Last, the presence of a cannabinoid receptor in selected evolutionary diverse organisms indicates that this signaling system has been conserved for more than 500 million years.

Based on both preclinical findings and anecdotal evidence in man, the psychoactive indole alkaloid ibogaine has been suggested to have anti-addictive properties. Previous studies indicate that blockade of NMDA receptors may mediate at least some of the putative anti-addictive actions of ibogaine. The potencies of a series of ibogaine analogs to inhibit (+)-[3-3H]5-methyl-10,11-dihydro-5H-dibenzo-[a,d]cyclohepten-5,10- imine ([3H]MK-801) binding to NMDA receptors were examined. This series of analogs included the putative ibogaine metabolite O-desmethylibogaine, its metabolism resistant analog O-t-butyl-O-desmethylibogaine, the iboga alkaloids (+/-)-ibogamine, (+/-)-coronaridine, tabernanthine, harmaline, and the indolotropanes endo-3-(1-methylindol-2-yl)-8-methyl-8-azabicyclo[3.2.1]loctane (RS 075194-190), exo-3-(1-methylindol-2-yl)-8-methyl-8-azabicyclo[3.2.1]octane (RS 075237-190), and endo-3-(indol-2-yl)-8-methyl-8-azabicyclo[3.2.1]octane (RS 025989-190). Among these compounds, ibogaine was the most potent inhibitor of [3H]MK-801 binding (Ki = approximately 1.2 microM), whilst the compounds with the greatest structural similarity to ibogaine, O-desmethylibogaine and O-t-butyl-O-desmethylibogaine were less potent (Ki = approximately 5.5 and 179.0 microL, respectively). In morphine-dependent mice, ibogaine, but not O-desmethylibogaine or O-t-butyl-O-desmethylibogaine, attenuated naloxone precipitated withdrawal jumping. These findings are consistent with the hypothesis that inhibition of the expression of morphine dependence by ibogaine is related to its NMDA receptor antagonist properties.
The visual system is constantly inundated with information received by the eyes, only a fraction of which seems to reach visual awareness. This selection process is one of the functions ascribed to visual attention. Although many studies have investigated the role of attention in shaping neuronal representations in the visual cortex, few have focused on attentional modulation of neuronal signals related to visual motion. Here we report that the responses of direction-selective neurons in monkey visual cortex are greatly influenced by attention, and that this modulation occurs as early in the cortical hierarchy as the level of the middle temporal visual area (MT). Our finding demonstrates a stronger and earlier influence of attention on motion processing along the dorsal visual pathway than previously recognized.
During the induction of long-term potentiation (LTP) in hippocampal slices adenosine triphosphate (ATP) is secreted into the synaptic cleft, and a 48 kDa/50 kDa protein duplex becomes phosphorylated by extracellular ATP. All the criteria required as evidence that these two proteins serve as principal substrates of ecto-protein kinase activity on the surface of hippocampal pyramidal neurons have been fulfilled. This phosphorylation activity was detected on the surface of pyramidal neurons assayed after synaptogenesis, but not in immature neurons nor in glial cells. Addition to the extracellular medium of a monoclonal antibody termed mAb 1.9, directed to the catalytic domain of protein kinase C (PKC), inhibited selectively this surface protein phosphorylation activity and blocked the stabilization of LTP induced by high frequency stimulation (HFS) in hippocampal slices. This antibody did not interfere with routine synaptic transmission nor prevent the initial enhancement of synaptic responses observed during the 1-5 min period immediately after the application of HFS (the induction phase of LTP). However, the initial increase in the slope of excitatory postsynaptic potentials, as well as the elevated amplitude of the population spike induced by HFS, both declined gradually and returned to prestimulus values within 30-40 min after HFS was applied in the presence of mAb 1.9. A control antibody that binds to PKC but does not inhibit its activity had no effect on LTP. The selective inhibitory effects observed with mAb 1.9 provide the first direct evidence of a causal role for ecto-PK in the maintenance of stable LTP, an event implicated in the process of learning and the formation of memory in the brain.
Opiates are known to function as immunomodulators, in part by effects on T cells. However, the signal transduction pathways mediating the effects of opiates on T cells are largely undefined. To determine whether pathways that regulate free intracellular calcium ([Ca2+]i) and/or cAMP are affected by opiates acting through delta-type opioid receptors (DORs), a cDNA encoding the neuronal DOR was expressed in a stably transfected Jurkat T-cell line. The DOR agonists, deltorphin and [D-Ala2, D-Leu5]-enkephalin (DADLE), elevated [Ca2+]i, measured by flow cytofluorometry using the calcium-sensitive dye, Fluo-3. At concentrations from 10(-11)-10(-7) M, both agonists increased [Ca2+]i from 60 nM to peak concentrations of 400 nM in a dose-dependent manner within 30 sec (ED50 of approximately 5 x 10(-9) M). Naltrindole, a selective DOR antagonist, abolished the increase in [Ca2+]i, and pretreatment with pertussis toxin was also effective. To assess the role of extracellular calcium, cells were pretreated with EGTA, which reduced the initial deltorphin-induced elevation of [Ca2+]i by more than 50% and eliminated the second phase of calcium mobilization. Additionally, the effect of DADLE on forskolin-stimulated cAMP production was determined. DADLE reduced cAMP production by 70% (IC50 of approximately equal to 10(-11) M), and pertussis toxin inhibited the action of DADLE. Thus, the DOR expressed by a transfected Jurkat T-cell line is positively coupled to pathways leading to calcium mobilization and negatively coupled to adenylate cyclase. These studies identify two pertussis toxin-sensitive, G protein-mediated signaling pathways through which DOR agonists regulate the levels of intracellular messengers that modulate T-cell activation.
A novel G-to-A transition at nucleotide 15915 in mtDNA is described. The patient showed a combination of muscle weakness, hearing loss, mental retardation, and seizures. Muscle biopsy showed RRFs and focal COX deficiency. We sequenced all mtDNA, and found 5 novel nucleotide substitutions. Three of them were synonymous mutations, one was a missense mutation in cytochrome b gene (A--&gt;G at nt 15422), and the last one was the 15915 mutation in tRNA(Thr) gene. We screened for the 15422 and the 15915 mutations with mismatch primers and found that one of 104 normal individuals carried the former one and none of 175 had the latter one. The 15422 mutation existed in homoplasmic states both in the patient and the normal individual, suggesting that this is a polymorphism. In contrast the 15915 mutation resided in heteroplasmic states in muscle, skin fibroblast and blood. The nucleotide substitution at nt 15915 disrupts a highly conserved base pair in anticodon stem of the tRNA(Thr). Our data suggest that the 15915 mutation is an additional mtDNA mutation responsible for mitochondrial encephalomyopathies.
Sonic hedgehog (Shh), a homologue of Drosophila hedgehog, was specifically expressed in lung epithelium during branching morphogenesis, but was not uniformly expressed in lung epithelium. Shh was intensely expressed in the distal tips of the bronchial tubes during branching morphogenesis, and Shh was localized on the apical side of the epithelium. On the other hand, Bmp-4, one of the target genes of Shh, was also specifically expressed in the epithelium at the branching point. These results suggest that Shh and Bmp-4 are involved in the branching morphogenesis of lung epithelium.
The effects of chronic hypoperfusion of cerebral blood flow (CBF) on central cholinergic indices and intellectual functions were investigated in rats. Male Wistar rats, aged 9 weeks, were anesthetized with pentobarbital, and the bilateral common carotid arteries were permanently ligated. Cortical CBF in the hypoperfused rats was markedly decreased at 6 weeks after the operation. In the hypoperfused group, cholinergic indices were changed to consist two phases after the operation, before (acute) and after (chronic) 6 weeks after the operation. At 6 weeks, choline acetyltransferase activity was restored to the sham-operated level compared with the changes in the frontal cortex and thalamus + midbrain at 3 weeks. On the other band, the maximum number of muscarinic acetylcholine receptors was reduced in the frontal cortex, hippocampus and striatum at 6 weeks and thereafter remained at this low level. In discrimination learning task, the percentage of correct responses in the hypoperfused rats was generally reduced in contrast with that of the sham-operated rats, although the number of total responses were not changed. As a consequence, cholinergic dysfunctions correlate with discrimination learning disabilities in the hypoperfused rats. These findings suggest that the hypoperfused rat may be useful for the cerebrovascular type dementia model to clarify pathophysiology.
The sexual motivation and performance of male rats were observed in a bilevel testing chamber after bilateral infusion of 40 pmol beta-endorphin, 2.75 nmol naloxone or saline into the ventral tegmental area for four succeeding, weekly tests. In the 5 min prior to introduction of the female rat, the male rat explores the bilevel testing chamber. It was previously shown that the increase over tests of these anticipatory level changes is sexually motivated and a response to olfactory stimuli. Naloxone infusion into the VTA prevented the increase of anticipatory level changes. beta-Endorphin failed to affect the anticipatory level-changing behavior. The sexual performance was unaffected by naloxone or beta-endorphin treatment, but the number of ejaculating rats decreased with repeated testing after naloxone treatment. It is concluded that endogenous opioid systems in the ventral tegmental area contribute to the stimulation of sexual motivation and/or reward, presumably by stimulating the mesolimbic dopamine system in response to sex-related olfactory stimuli.
The postnatal development of intraadrenal ganglion neurons was studied in rat by using indirect immunohistochemistry and in situ hybridization. The large neuropeptide tyrosine (NPY)-expressing ganglion neurons (type I ganglion neurons) matured postnatally, with marked increases in acetylcholinesterase (AChE)-, neurofilament 10 (NF10)-, and tyrosine hydroxylase (TH)-like immunoreactivities (LIs) paralleled by increasing levels of mRNAs encoding NPY, low-affinity neurotrophin receptor (LANR), and tropomyosin kinase receptor (trk). The smaller vasoactive intestinal polypeptide (VIP)-immunoreactive (IR) ganglion neurons (type II ganglion neurons) expressed increasing levels of VIP mRNA postnatally and also contained immunoreactive nitric oxide synthase (NOS) and its mRNA. These type II ganglion neurons appeared to be relatively mature already at postnatal day (P2) and did not express detectable levels of LANR or trk mRNAs. The cell size of both the type I and type II ganglion neurons increased about 2.5-fold postnatally. The type I ganglion neurons formed more densely packed clusters with increasing age, whereas the type II ganglion neurons were spread out in small groups or individually, mainly in the peripheral parts of the medulla, and appeared to fulfill their migration into the medulla and/or to the inner regions of the cortex early postnatally, possibly after establishing contact with their cortical targets. We suggest that the type I ganglion neurons represent sympathetic ganglion neurons of the same origin as the chromaffin cells and that they mature mainly postnatally. The development of the type II (VIP/NOS) ganglion neurons takes place earlier; however, their phenotype remains more uncertain.
The present study analyzed the relationships of glycine (GLY)-immunoreactive (-IR) and unlabeled profiles in the primate spinal cord. Light microscopic analysis demonstrated GLY-IR profiles in laminae III-VII, with fewer labeled profiles in laminae I, II, VIII, IX and X. The dorsal part of the lateral funiculus and the dorsal funiculus contained few labeled axons, in contrast to all other areas of white matter, which were heavily labeled. At the electron microscopic level, GLY-IR terminals in monkeys contained mainly round, with occasional pleomorphic, clear vesicles; however, F-type GLY-IR terminals synapsing on motoneurons contained pleomorphic vesicles. This seems to be an important species difference because vesicles in GLY-IR terminals in rat and cat are predominantly oval or elliptical. GLY-IR terminals synapsed on unlabeled as well as GLY-IR cell bodies and dendrites. This is morphological evidence that GLY may be both an inhibitor (GLY-IR terminals synapse on and presumably inhibit non-GLY cell bodies and dendrites) and a disinhibitor (GLY-IR terminals synapse on and presumably inhibit other GLY elements) of spinal activity. Also noteworthy was the conspicuous absence of axoaxonic interactions involving GLY-IR terminals. A related finding was that GLY profiles were always postsynaptic, never presynaptic, to glomerular primary afferent terminals. The functional implications would seem to be that primary afferent input can activate the spinal GLY system but that there is little GLY presynaptic control of afferent input in monkeys. This is in contrast to rats and cats, in which axoaxonic interactions involving GLY-IR terminals have been observed and where it is common to find GLY-IR terminals presynaptic to glomerular primary afferent terminals.
The neuroleptic-like effects of neurotensin (NT) are thought to be due to interactions with dopamine (DA) acting primarily at D2 receptors within the nucleus accumbens septi (Acb). Using electron microscopic dual labeling immunocytochemistry, we sought to demonstrate cellular substrates for functional interactions involving NT and DA D2 receptors in the adult rat Acb. Peroxidase reaction product representing D2 receptor-like immunoreactivity (D2-LI) was seen along membranes of Golgi lamellae and multivesicular bodies of perikarya containing immunogold labeling representing NT-LI. Dually labeled somata usually contained highly indented nuclei, a characteristic of aspiny neurons. Dendrites also occasionally colocalized the two immunomarkers. Other somata, dendrites, and all axon terminals were singly labeled with either NT-LI or D2-LI. In distinct sets of terminals, NT-LI was commonly associated with large, dense-cored vesicles, whereas D2-LI was found along the plasmalemma and over nearby small clear vesicles. Each type of terminal comprised approximately 20% of synaptic input to NT-immunoreactive dendrites. Similar proportions of terminals containing NT-LI or D2-LI contacted unlabeled (approximately 55%) or NT-labeled (approximately 35%) dendrites and, occasionally, were observed converging onto common dendrites. Terminals containing NT-LI or D2-LI also were often closely apposed. These findings provide the first ultrastructural evidence that: (1) NT and D2 receptors are colocalized in aspiny neurons and dendrites, (2) NT may produce a direct postsynaptic effect on neurons receiving input from terminals which are presynaptically modulated by DA via D2 receptors, and (3) NT and DA acting at D2 receptors may interact through presynaptic modulation of common axon terminals.
Activation of the mu opioid receptor (MOR) by morphine within the caudal nucleus of the solitary tract (NTS) is known to mediate both cardiorespiratory and gastrointestinal responses. Leu5-enkephalin (LE), a potential endogenous ligand for MOR, is also present within neurons in this region. To determine the cellular sites for the visceral effects of MOR ligands, including LE, we used immunogold-silver and immunoperoxidase methods for light and electron microscopic localization of antisera against MOR (carboxyl terminal domain) and LE in the caudal NTS of rat brain. Light microscopy of coronal sections through the NTS at the level of the area postrema showed MOR-like immunoreactivity (MOR-LI) and LE labeling in punctate processes located within the subpostremal, dorsomedial and medial subnuclei. Electron microscopy of sections through the medial NTS at this level showed gold-silver particles identifying MOR-LI prominently distributed to the cytoplasmic side of the plasma membranes of axons and terminals. MOR labeled terminals formed mostly symmetric (inhibitory-type) synapses but sometimes showed multiple asymmetric junctions, characteristic of excitatory visceral afferents. MOR-LI was also present along extrasynaptic plasma membranes of dendrites receiving afferent input from unlabeled and LE-labeled terminals. We conclude that MOR ligands, possibly including LE, can act at extrasynaptic MORs on the plasma membranes of axons and dendrites in the caudal NTS to modulate the presynaptic release and postsynaptic responses of neurons. These are likely to include local inhibitory neurons and both gastric and cardiorespiratory afferents known to terminate in the subnuclei with the most intense MOR-LI.
Genes encoding for C2H2 zinc finger proteins are known to regulate normal cell proliferation and differentiation and have often been found to be mutated in different forms of cancer. We are interested in understanding the role of these genes as regulators of cell proliferation and differentiation in the exocrine pancreas. Therefore, we have generated expressed sequence tags (ESTs) encoding pancreas-enriched zinc finger peptides using the polymerase chain reaction and hybridization techniques [Adams, M.D. et al. (1991) Science, 252, 1651-1656]. Here we report the primary structure and expression pattern of 18 different zinc finger-encoding cDNAs (DZF-1-18) from the azaserine-derived tumoral cell line AR4IP which displays a poorly differentiated phenotype. Sequence analysis shows that all of these clones encode peptides which share the consensus DNA-binding motif with the Drosophila zinc finger transcription factor krppel. High stringency Northern blot analysis shows that eight different zinc finger transcripts are expressed at high levels in normal adult rat pancreas and therefore constitute good candidates to play a role as transcription factors in exocrine pancreatic cells.

The use of ligand-binding methods to study neurotransmitter-receptor sites has made its impact on almost all aspects of biological pursuits including research on aging and neurodegenerative diseases. In the past, most of the research in biochemical gerontology has largely centered around changes in various neurotransmitters and enzymatic activities. The molecular basis of aging and neurodegeneration at the level of neurotransmitter-receptor interactions has been highly appreciated in the last two decades as a result of receptor binding studies. It is now possible to obtain information about the regional distribution of neurotransmitter receptors in the brain, the pharmacological and biochemical characteristics of these sites, and the functional interrelationships between different neuronal systems in normal and pathological conditions. The passage of time after maturity is accompanied by measurable physiologic decline in virtually all systems. It is the aim of this work to discuss the practical aspects of neurotransmitter and/or drug (ligand)-receptor binding studies, highlighting some examples of their applications to geriatric neuropharmacology research, with special consideration to learning impairment and memory loss in normal and in pathological aging processes.
The orphan nuclear receptor steroidogenic factor 1 (SF-1) was isolated as a transcription factor expressed specifically in the mouse primary steroidogenic tissues. SF-1 expression occurs at the earliest stages of adrenal and gonadal development and the expression pattern is sexually dimorphic in gonads during sexual differentiation. The two hormones required for male differentiation, testosterone and Mllerian-inhibiting substance, are regulated by SF-1. Analyses of knockout mice lacking SF-1 by gene targeting disruption demonstrated that the SF-1-disrupted mice lack adrenal glands and gonads, supporting the suggestion that SF-1 is an essential regulator of the endocrine development and differentiation. Additionally, SF-1 is expressed in the pituitary gonadotropes and the ventrolateral hypothalamic nucleus, which are higher levels of the reproductive regulatory axis, of both adults and embryos. These tissues are also affected in SF-1 knockout mice, indicating that SF-1 plays extended roles at all levels of the reproductive axis, by regulating more genes involved in reproductive function and development.
Experiments were performed to characterize the so-called leak current of the slowly adapting stretch receptor neurone of the European lobster with respect to its ionic basis, its kinetics and its pharmacology. Estimates of the leak current were obtained by subtraction of a Na-K pump current and of an unspecific impalement current from a non-dynamic ('instantaneous') current, recorded in a voltage range from approximately -120 to approximately -30 mV, after blockage of spike-generating currents and a hyperpolarization-activated inwardly rectifying current (Q-current). The leak current, estimated in this way, was seen to reverse direction at the cell's K+ equilibrium voltage, thus indicating that it is carried by K+ passing through channels which, also, proved to be permeable to Rb+ and NH4+, but not permeable to Na+ or Cl- to any significant extent. Kinetically, the leak current was found to be characterized by being enhanced by increases in extracellular K+ and by being subject to outward rectification, most distinctly at elevated extracellular [K+]. In quantitative terms, these kinetic properties could be accounted for by a mathematical model comprising (1) a one-site two-barrier Eyring formulation describing ion permeation through membrane channels and (2) an ordinary dose-response relationship describing the channel-opening effect of K+ at an extracellular regulatory site. Pharmacologically, the leak current proved to be distinguished by being reversibly blockable, in a non-voltage dependent manner, by CO2+ (Kd = 0.9 mM, Hill coefficient 1.1) and procaine, but not by Ba2+, Gd3+, bupivacaine (a local anesthetic), or other K+ channel blockers such as TEA, 4-AP and Cs+. It is concluded that, in native unimpaled cells, the K+ carried leak current (1) is setting the resting voltage together with the (mainly) Na(+)-carried Q-current and the Na-K pump current, (2) is determining the cell's firing threshold, together with the spike generating currents, and (3) is also stabilizing the cell's membrane excitability in conditions of varying extracellular [K+], by virtue of its K+ sensitivity.
The problem whether endogenous nitric oxide (NO) may serve as a true physiological regulator of vascular tone in vivo was approached by testing its role during graded acute haemorrhage with the aid of the nitric oxide synthase (NOS) inhibitor L-NAME. The study was performed on the vascular bed of cat skeletal muscle with a technique permitting quantitative recordings of vascular resistance in the whole vascular bed (RT) and in its consecutive sections, the proximal arterial resistance ('feeder') vessels (&gt; 25 microns; Ra,prox), the small arterioles (&lt; 25 microns) and the veins. NO blockade by close-arterial L-NAME infusion in the control situation increased RT from 16.3 to 33.0 PRU (+102%), because of a selective increase in Ra,prox by 16.7 PRU. A 35% blood loss per se raised RT from 13.6 to 21.7 PRU. Superimposed NO blockade in this state caused a much stronger vasoconstriction than in the control situation, increasing RT to 60.9 PRU (+181%) and Ra,prox by 40.5 PRU, which indicated an approximately 2.4-fold increase (P &lt; 0.001) in the NO dilator influence in the Ra,prox section above control. The effect was independent of autonomic nerves. The increased NO dilator influence during haemorrhage most likely was caused by an increased production of endothelium-derived nitric oxide (EDNO), The constrictor response to L-NAME was graded in relation to the blood loss (17.5 vs. 35%). The results indicate that EDNO functions as a physiological regulator of vascular tone in the arterial 'feeder' vessels during haemorrhage, serving to counterbalance to a significant extent the concomitant adrenergic constriction, and thereby preventing critical reduction of blood flow and untoward heterogeneous flow distribution within the tissue.
Levels of triiodothyronine (T3) and thyroid-stimulating hormone (TSH), psychopathy-related personality traits and criminality from the age of 15 years onward were examined in 70 former juvenile delinquents and 35 control subjects aged 38-46 years. T3 levels were significantly associated with criminality but not with psychopathy-related personality traits. TSH levels were not related to any of these variables. Juvenile delinquents who displayed persistent criminal behaviour were found to have higher mean T3 levels than juvenile delinquents who did not display criminality in adulthood and non-criminal controls. Former juvenile delinquents with T3 levels above the mean level found in the controls were registered for criminality 3.8 times more often than juvenile delinquents with T3 levels below the mean level found in the control group. The results are discussed in terms of elevated T3 levels representing a compensatory or stress phenomenon for low social adaptive ability of individuals who display persistent criminal behaviour.
Psychopathy-related personality traits as well as platelet monoamine oxidase (MAO) activity and criminality from the age of 15 years were studied in a group of 68 male former juvenile delinquents and 32 control subjects. The former juvenile delinquents registered for crime as adults were found to have higher Psychopathy Check List (PCL) scores and lower platelet MAO activity than either juvenile delinquents who were not registered criminals from the age of 15 years or non-criminal controls. Although PCL scores and platelet MAC activity were unrelated, a configural frequency analysis showed a significant interaction. Individuals with PCL scores, low platelet MAO activity and persistent criminal behaviour constituted a significant &quot;type'. Among the 27 former juvenile delinquents who developed persistent criminality, 21 subjects (78%) had PCL scores greater than 0 and low platelet MAO activity, while none of these persistent criminals were characterized by a combination of zero PCL score and high platelet MAO activity.
Previous studies have shown that, at certain dose levels, ethanol can exert a powerful, facilitatory effect on aggressive behavior in both animals and humans. In the cat, however, it was discovered that ethanol differentially alters two forms of aggression that are common to this species. Defensive rage behavior is significantly enhanced, whereas predatory attack behavior is suppressed by ethanol administration. One possible mechanism governing alcohol's potentiation of defensive rage behavior is that it acts on the descending pathway from the medial hypothalamus to the midbrain periaqueductal gray (PAG)-an essential pathway for the expression of defensive rage behavior that uses excitatory amino acids as a neurotransmitter. This hypothesis is supported by the finding that the excitatory effects of alcohol on defensive rage behavior are blocked by administration of the N-methyl-D-aspartate antagonist alpha-2-amino-7-phosphoheptanoic acid (AP-7) when microinjected into the periaqueductal gray, a primary neuronal target of descending fibers from the medial hypothalamus that mediate the expression of defensive rage behavior. Thus, the present study establishes for the first time a specific component of the neural circuit for defensive rage behavior over which the potentiating effects of ethanol are mediated.
The gene predisposing to neurofibromatosis type 2 (NF2) on human chromosome 22 has revealed a wide variety of different mutations in NF2 individuals. These patients display a marked variability in clinical presentation, ranging from very severe disease with numerous tumors at a young age to a relatively mild condition much later in life. To investigate whether this phenotypic heterogeneity is determined by the type of mutation in NF2, we have collected clinical information on 111 NF2 cases from 73 different families on whom we have performed mutation screening in this gene. Sixty-seven individuals (56.2%) from 41 of these kindreds revealed 36 different putative disease-causing mutations. These include 26 proposed protein-truncating alterations (frameshift deletions/insertions and nonsense mutations), 6 splice-site mutations, 2 missense mutations, 1 base substitution in the 3' UTR of the NF2 cDNA, and a single 3-bp in-frame insertion. Seventeen of these mutations are novel, whereas the remaining 19 have been described previously in other NF2 individuals or sporadic tumors. When individuals harboring protein-truncating mutations are compared with cases with single codon alterations, a significant correlation (P &lt; .001) with clinical outcome is observed. Twenty-four of 28 patients with mutations that cause premature truncation of the NF2 protein, schwannomin, present with severe phenotypes. In contrast, all 16 cases from three families with mutations that affect only a single amino acid have mild NF2. These data provide conclusive evidence that a phenotype/genotype correlation exists for certain NF2 mutations.
We examined the effect of intravenous infusion of atrial natriuretic hormone (ANH) on the response of muscle sympathetic nerve activity (MSNA) to infused angiotensin II (ANG II) in humans. Infusion of saline alone or ANH (10 ng.kg-1.min-1) alone produced no significant change in MSNA, whereas the infusion of ANG II (5 ng.kg-1.min-1) alone caused a decrease in MSNA. Because elevations in arterial pressure (AP) and central venous pressure (CVP) also occurred due to ANG II, such elevations in AP and CVP could inhibit MSNA via baroreflexes. Then, the effect of ANG II on AP and CVP was inhibited by the simultaneous infusion of nitroprusside (N). Infusion of ANG II (5 ng.kg-1.min-1) produced significant increases in MSNA when ANG II was infused along with N. However, the simultaneously infused ANH (10 ng.kg-1.min-1) abolished the increases in MSNA induced by ANG II when the elevation in AP and CVP was inhibited by N. Thus ANH inhibits ANG II-induced sympathetic activation in humans. The results suggest that ANH may modulate sympathetic nerve activity at least in part by antagonizing the action of ANG II.


American universities recognized and institutionalized the emerging importance of neuroscience in medicine by establishing neurological professorships as early as the 1860s. Nearly 20 years before Charcot assumed his celebrated chaired professorship for Diseases of the Nervous System in France, Harvard University created a professorship of Physiology and Pathology of the Nervous System (1864), naming Brown-Sequard as its recipient. In 1867, the new Bellevue Hospital Medical School established a combined neurology/psychiatry chair with William A. Hammond as professor, and the University of Pennsylvania created a clinical professorship devoted specifically to neurology in 1875, naming Horatio C. Wood. Although modest in their university power base and their clinical research/laboratory programs, these American posts were internationally unique for their time and solidly entrenched neurology as a specific division in early US medical education.
The non-Abeta component of Alzheimer's disease amyloid (NAC) is copurified with amyloid from the brain tissue of Alzheimer's disease victims and is immunohistochemically localized to amyloid fibrils. NAC is a hydrophobic peptide fragment from the NAC precursor protein (NACP/alpha-synuclein) that is localized to presynaptic terminals. We used a polymorphic dinucleotide repeat sequence in a genomic clone of NACP for genetic association and linkage studies. Screening of Alzheimer's disease families failed to establish linkage between NACP and Alzheimer's disease. Nevertheless, one of the NACP polymorphisms (NACP allele 2) was shown to have significant association with healthy elderly control individuals with apolipoprotein E risk. This may indicate a possible protective function of the allele.
Spinocerebellar ataxia type 1 and Machado-Joseph disease are two autosomal dominant cerebellar ataxias caused by expansions of unstable CAG repeats in the coding region of the causative genes. The selectivity of cell death and the resulting characteristic neuropathological features in each of these diseases are not explained by the gene expression patterns. Since the repeat size correlates with age at onset and severity of these diseases, somatic mosaicism, the result of mitotic instability of the CAG repeat, could be the basis for specificity of neurodegeneration; brain structures with larger expanded repeats would be more severely affected. To study the association between neuropathological changes and somatic mosaicism of the CAG repeat size in the central nervous system of patients with these two ataxias, we determined the size of the (CAG)n expansion in 20 different regions of the brain, brainstem, cerebellum, and spinal cord from 3 patients with spinocerebellar ataxia type 1 and 3 with Machado-Joseph disease; these regions were selected for their differential neuropathological involvement in the two disorders. We observed a considerable homogeneity of repeat size ranges in all but 1 of the 20 regions examined: The cerebellar cortex showed slightly smaller (CAG)n tracts in all specimens from both groups of patients. Our results suggest that the pattern of repeat size mosaicism, similar in spinocerebellar ataxia type 1 and Machado-Joseph disease, reflects the developmental pathways and cell composition of different central nervous system regions and is not the cause of selective cell death in these disorders.



The effect of neonatal hippocampal lesions on behavioral sensitivity to amphetamine (AMPH) and dopamine (DA) release in the nucleus accumbens (NAc) were examined. The ventral hippocampus was damaged bilaterally by ibotenic acid on postnatal day 7 (PD7). Spontaneous exploration and AMPH-stimulated locomotor activity were examined on postnatal day 35 (PD35) and day 56 (PD56). Extracellular DA, dihydroxyphenylacetic acid (DOPAC), homovanillic acid (HVA), and 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid (5-HIAA) were sampled using in vivo microdialysis while simultaneously AMPH-stimulated locomotion was examined in freely moving rats on PD56. Spontaneous exploration increased in rats with hippocampal lesions relative to controls on PD56 but not PD35. AMPH (0, 0.187, 0.375, 0.75, 1.5, and 3 mg/kg) enhanced locomotion dose-dependently in both control and lesioned groups. Locomotor activity was higher in lesioned rats than controls following AMPH at the dose of 0.75 mg/kg on PD35 and at the doses of 1.5 and 3.0 mg/kg on PD56. The basal level of DA in the NAc was not different between the hippocampal and control groups. AMPH (1.5 mg/kg) induced hyperlocomotion in lesioned rats relative to controls. DA release in the NAc for both groups was enhanced following injections of AMPH. However, neonatal hippocampal lesions had no further enhancement on AMPH-stimulated release of DA as compared to the control group. The levels of DOPAC and HVA in the NAc were altered by AMPH but not lesions. The level of 5-HIAA was not influenced by either lesions or AMPH. The results of neonatal lesion-induced hyperlocomotion suggest that an emergence of behavioral hyperresponsiveness to AMPH was dependent on an interaction of lesions, age of examination, and dose of the drug. A dissociation between the effect of AMPH on lesion-enhanced hyperlocomotion and a lack of a lesion-enhanced DA release in the NAc suggest that presynaptic release of DA had no major contribution to lesion-enhanced DA transmission in the mesolimbic DA system.
Perinatal ischemia and/or hypoxia in humans are major risk factors for neurologic injury that often manifest as sensorimotor and locomotor deficits throughout development and into maturity. In these studies, we utilized an established model of neonatal ischemic-hypoxia that creates unilateral striatal, cortical, and hippocampal damage (Rice III, J.E., Vanucci, R.C. and Brierley, J.B., Ann. Neurol., 9 (1981) 131-141) to investigate sensorimotor and locomotor deficits in these animals during development and as adults. Sensorimotor deficits were examined by measuring the amount of time that the animals were able to remain on a rotating treadmill. Locomotor abnormalities were assessed by measuring apomorphine-induced rotational asymmetry. Following the neonatal ischemic-hypoxic episode, at 3-9 weeks of age, animals were not able to remain on the treadmill as long as their normal littermate controls. In addition, these animals demonstrated an abnormal, ipsiversive rotational asymmetry in response to systemic administration of apomorphine. When these animals reached adulthood, the degree of atrophy in specific regions of the damaged hemisphere was quantified using measurements of cross-sectional area. The mean cross-sectional area of the striatum was decreased by 29%, the sensorimotor cortex area by 26%, and the dorsal hippocampus cross-sectional area was approximately 6% of its normal size. These data suggest that this rodent model of neonatal ischemic-hypoxic brain injury results in cerebral atrophy and long-lasting sensorimotor and locomotor deficits. These particular behavioral tasks may be used in future studies to assess locomotor and sensorimotor deficits following neonatal ischemic-hypoxic brain injury.
Rabbits and rats received horseradish peroxidase injections in the medial prefrontal cortex, and retrograde labeling was examined in the hippocampus (HC) and subicular complex (SC). Labeled cells were observed in HC and SC in the rat, but only in the SC of the rabbit. In a second experiment, separate groups of rabbits with sham, SC, or cortical control lesions were subjected to differential classical heart rate conditioning, in which 4-s, 75-db tones served as conditioned stimuli and a 3-mA paraorbital shock was the unconditioned stimulus. Although conditioned bradycardia was obtained in animals with SC lesions, it was slower to develop and was much shorter in duration than in the cortical and sham control groups. In the animals with SC lesions, the bradycardiac response was quickly replaced with tachycardia, suggesting a sympathetic bias in these animals.
A previous model of hippocampal region function in classical conditioning is generalized to H. Eichenbaum, A. Fagan, P. Mathews, and N.J. Cohen's (1989) and H. Eichenbaum, A. Fagan, and N.J. Cohen's (1989) simultaneous odor discrimination studies in rats. The model assumes that the hippocampal region forms new stimulus representations that compress redundant information while differentiating predictie information; the piriform (olfactory) cortex meanwhile clusters similar and co-occurring odors. Hippocampal damage interrupts the ability to differentiate odor representations, while leaving piriform-mediated odor clustering unchecked. The result is a net tendency to overcompress in the lesioned model. Behavior in the model is very similar to that of the rats, including lesion deficits, facilitation of successively learned tasks, and transfer performance. The computational mechanisms underlying model performance are consistent with the qualitative interpretations suggested by Eichen baum et al. to explain their empirical data.
The echolocating big brown bat, Eptesicus fuscus, broadcasts brief frequency-modulated (FM) ultrasonic sounds and perceives objects from echoes of these sounds returning to its ears. Eptesicus is an insectivorous species that uses sonar to locate and track flying prey. Although the bat normally hunts in open areas, it nevertheless is capable of chasing insects into cluttered environments such as vegetation, where it completes interceptions in much the same manner as in the open except that it has to avoid the obstacles as well as catch the insect. During pursuit, the bat shortens its sonar signals and increases their rate of emission as it closes in to seize the target, and it keeps its head pointed at the insect throughout the maneuver. In the terminal stage of interception, the bat makes rapid adjustments in its flight-path and body posture to capture the insect, and these reactions occur whether the bat is pursuing its prey in the open or close to obstacles such as vegetation. Insects can be distinguished from other objects by the spectrum and phase of their echoes, and Eptesicus is very good at discriminating these acoustic features. To identify the insect in the open, but especially to distinguish which object is the insect in clutter, the bat must have some means for representing these features throughout the interception maneuver. Moreover, continuity for perception of these features is necessary to keep track of the prey in complex surroundings, so the nature of the auditory representations for the spectrum and phase of echoes has to be conserved across the approach, tracking, and terminal stages. The first problem is that representation of changes in the phase of echoes requires neural responses in the bat's auditory system to have temporal precision in the microsecond range, which seems implausible from conventional single-unit studies in the bat's inferior colliculus, where the temporal jitter of responses typically is hundreds of microseconds. Another problem is that echoes do not explicitly evoke neural responses in the inferior colliculus distinct from responses evoked by the broadcast during the terminal stage because the delay of echoes is too short for responsiveness to recover from the emissions. In contrast, each emission and each echo evokes its own responses during the approach and tracking stages of pursuit. How does the bat consistently represent the phase of echoes in spite of these evident limitations in neural responses? Local multiunit responses recorded from the inferior colliculus of Eptesicus reveal a novel format for encoding the phase of echoes at all stages of interception. Changes in echo phase (0 degree or 180 degrees) produce shifts in the latency of responses to the emission by hundreds of microseconds, an unexpected finding that demonstrates the existence of expanded time scales in neural responses representing the target at all stages of pursuit.


In this study the N400 of schizophrenics was compared with that of control subjects in a picture semantic-matching task. The comparison of N400 difference waveforms (subtraction of event-related potentials of congruent from those of incongruent trials) between control and patients was supplemented by separate analysis for congruent and incongruent trials. The N400 latency was delayed in patients. Also, the amplitude of N400 in the difference waveform was reduced in schizophrenics; however only congruent trials were different for patients (more negative) with respect to controls. This result is consistent with the hypothesis that schizophrenics use context poorly, but inconsistent with simple versions of the idea that associations are generally disinhibited in schizophrenia. Since the amplitudes of N400 and an auditory P300 were not correlated, a general processing deficit does not explain the results. Finally, by using picture matching, a cross-cultural comparison of N400 in schizophrenics from Cuba and China was possible, which indicated that the N400 abnormalities were similar in both groups.
We used a flow method for Ca2+ activation of sheep cardiac and rabbit skeletal ryanodine receptor (RyR) channels in lipid bilayers, which activated RyRs in &lt; 20 ms and maintained a steady [Ca2+] for 5 s. [Ca2+] was rapidly altered by flowing Ca(2+)-buffered solutions containing 100 or 200 microM Ca2+ from a perfusion tube inserted in the cis, myoplasmic chamber above the bilayer. During steps from 0.1 to 100 microM, [Ca2+] reached 0.3 microM (activation threshold) and 10 microM (maximum Po) in times consistent with predictions of a solution exchange model. Immediately following rapid RyR activation, Po was 0.67 (cardiac) and 0.45 (skeletal) at a holding voltage of +40 mV (cis/trans). Po then declined (at constant [Ca2+]) in 70% of channels (n = 25) with time constants ranging from .5 to 15 s. The mechanism for Po decline, whether it be adaptation or inactivation, was not determined in this study. cis, 2 mM Mg2+ reduced the initial Po for skeletal RyRs to 0.21 and marginally slowed the declining phase. During very rapid falls in [Ca2+] from mM (inhibited) to sub-microM (sub-activating) levels, skeletal RyR did not open. We conclude the RyR gates responsible for Ca(2+)-dependent activation and inhibition of skeletal RyRs can gate independently.
We describe a puffing method for changing solutions near one surface of lipid bilayers that allows simultaneous measurement of channel activity and extent of solution change at the bilayer surface. Ion adsorption to the lipid headgroups and screening of the bilayer surface charge by mobile ions provided a convenient probe for the ionic composition of the solution at the bilayer surface. Rapid ionic changes induced a shift in bilayer surface potential that generated a capacitive transient current under voltage-clamp conditions. This depended on the ion species and bilayer composition and was accurately described by the Stern-Gouy-Chapman theory. The time course of solute concentrations during solution changes could also be modeled by an exponential exchange of bath and puffing solutions with time constants ranging from 20 to 110 ms depending on the flow pressure. During changes in [Cs+] and [Ca2+] (applied separately or together) both the mixing model and capacitive currents predicted [Cs+] and [Ca2+] transients consistent with those determined experimentally from: 1) the known Cs(+)-dependent conductance of open ryanodine receptor channels and 2) the Ca(2+)-dependent gating of ryanodine receptor Ca2+ channels from cardiac and skeletal muscle.
Cerebellar astrocytoma in adulthood is a distinct neoplasm with a variable prognosis. We reviewed retrospectively 13 cases in patients aged 21 years or over, seen between 1976 and 1992. These accounted for 19% of all cases of cerebellar astrocytoma seen during that period. The tumour was located in the midline in six patients and laterally in seven; seven patients were females and six were males. The low grade tumours had an overall favourable course, similar to that seen in cerebellar astrocytoma in childhood, with follow-up ranging from 4 to 10 years. The poorly differentiated form, seen in four of the cases, showed progression or recurrence within 4-24 months, regardless of the extent of removal or post-operative radiation therapy.
Split brain patients who are initially unable to produce speech in their right hemispheres sometimes develop the ability to do so. Patient J.W., the subject of this report, is such a patient. At the time of his callosotomy, J.W. had a language dominant left hemisphere; his right hemisphere could understand both spoken and written language, but he was unable to speak. Fourteen years after his surgery, we found that J.W. was capable of naming approximately 25% of the stimuli presented to his left visual field (LVF). Now, 1 year later, we find that he can name about 60% of such stimuli. This late-developing speech ability appears to be consequence of long-term neural plasticity. However, the subject's extended verbal responses to LVF stimuli seem to result from a collaboration between the hemispheres and to involve the left hemisphere interpreter.
Alzheimer's disease causes a progressive loss of semantic memory, one manifestation of which is a progressive language deficit. In order to delineate the relationship between cognitive processing deficits and language disturbance, word-word and picture-word lexical-decision priming tasks were administered to patients with mild dementia of the Alzheimer's type (DAT) (n = 6), very mild DATs (n = 7), and older normals (n = 23). The mild DATs differed from the other two groups in both tasks. When pictures were used as primes, significant identity priming was seen in the normals and very mild DATs, but not in the mild DATs. The mild DATs showed an aberrant pattern-responses significantly slower with picture primes than with nonsense primes in all three picture-word conditions. This may reflect residual inhibitory activity within a damaged associational network. In the word-word paradigm, the mild DAT subjects demonstrated significant priming both when the prime and target were identical (identity priming, e.g., dog-dog) and when they were semantically related (semantic priming, e.g., cat-dog). The other two groups showed no significant priming. These data reinforce other studies which have found that DAT subjects show a supranormal amount of word-word lexical-decision priming. This &quot;hyperpriming&quot; may occur due to partially degraded internal representations which benefit from priming more than intact representations (a cognitive crutch). Both paradigms thus exposed information-processing deficits which distinguished mild DATs from the other two groups. DAT-induced changes in selective attention are probably contributing to these results.
Lithium has been hypothesised to exert its therapeutic effects in the treatment of bipolar disorder by attenuating phosphatidylinositol (PI) cell signalling pathways that are presumably hyperactive in this disorder. More specifically, lithium has been proposed to inhibit inositol monophosphatase (IMPase) thereby causing a depletion of intracellular inositol which results in a reduction in the synthesis of the PI required to sustain this signalling pathway. In the present article this 'inositol depletion' hypothesis will be reviewed and pathological, pharmacodynamic, developmental and anatomical aspects of IMPase as well as inhibitors of this enzyme will be described.
We previously reported that the total neurotrophic activity of hippocampal extracts was significantly (25-50%) reduced after 21-28 weeks of chronic ethanol treatment (CET) [23]. To test whether the level of a neurotrophic factor (i.e., ligand itself) is compromised, we measured nerve growth factor (NGF) protein and NGF mRNA contents using ELISA and Northern analysis. We reported that CET did not appear to reduce NGF protein, NGF mRNA or total neurotrophic activity when measured on sympathetic ganglia neurons [4]. We also observed that both NT-3 mRNA and bFGF mRNA levels were unaffected, but the BDNF mRNA levels was significantly reduced in CET rat hippocampus [18]. Neuronal degeneration and reduction of total neurotrophic activity after CET appear to be induced, at least partially, by compromised transcription of BDNF gene. CET may also induce functional changes in receptors for the neurotrophic factors. To investigate possible changes in neurotrophic factor-receptors, we examined Western blots (immunoblots) of rat cortex after 28 weeks of CET. After sonication and ultra-centrifugation, the supernatant of crude lysates of the cortex from individual animals was subjected to SDS-PAGE, electrotransfered to nitrocellulose membrane, incubated with anti-trk B antibody and secondary antibody conjugated to alkaline phosphatase, and reacted with chemiluminescent substrate. The membranes were then exposed to Kodak XAR film. Compared to controls (n = 6), CET rats (n = 6) appeared to have significantly higher band intensity (P &lt; 0.01) of trk B-like protein at about 145 kDa, which suggests an up-regulation of trk B-like proteins to compensate the compromised level of certain subset (i.e., BDNF or NT-4/5, but not NGF) of neurotrophins in cortex.
In Drosophila, members of the leucine-rich repeat (LRR) family have significant functions in neural development. We have isolated mouse brain cDNAs which encode three new independent LRR proteins (neuronal leucine-rich repeat: NLRR-1, NLRR-2, NLRR-3). Levels of expression of these NLRR mRNAs were measured in a unilateral cortical injury model by in-situ hybridization and Northern blot analysis. In the injured cerebral cortex, only NLRR-3 mRNA increased in layers 2-3, while the other two genes showed no up-regulation. The level of NLRR-3 mRNA induction peaked around 7-10 days postinjury. This study suggests that NLRR-3 may be an important component of the pathophysiological response to brain injury.
Nitric oxide (NO) plays important roles in diverse processes, including neurotransmission in the peripheral and central nervous systems. Nitric oxide synthase (NOS), the enzyme that catalyzes formation of NO from L-arginine, is an intrinsic component of the postsynaptic density (PSD), a specialization of the postsynaptic membrane. This raises the possibility that NO may play a role in postsynaptic function. To begin defining postsynaptic actions of NO, we examined effects of NO on Ca2+/calmodulin-dependent phosphorylation (C/C-DP) of proteins in the cortical PSD of adult rat brain. Treatment of the PSD with sodium nitroprusside, a NO donor, caused a 4-fold increase in C/C-DP of the major PSD protein (mPSDp), relative to C/C treatment alone. Another NO donor, S,S'-dinitrosodithiol, elicited a 2-fold increase in C/C-DP of the mPSDp. Treatment of PSD fractions with L-arginine, a substrate for endogenous NOS, caused a 3-fold increase in C/C-DP activity. The competitive NOS inhibitor, N-L-arginine-methyl ester, decreased basal C/C-DP of cortical mPSDp by 50% and blocked the increase elicited by L-arginine. The inhibitor had no effect on cAMP-dependent phosphorylation, suggesting specificity of NO action on C/C-DP. Our observations indicate that NO enhances C/C-DP of PSD proteins. As C/C-DP inactivates NOS, our findings raise the possibility that NO effects on C/C-DP constitute a feedback mechanism for regulation of NOS activity.

A clonal deoxyribonucleic acid (cDNA) clone of mouse trkB was expressed in cells of the rat PC12 pheochromocytoma cell line. The transformants followed apoptotic death upon serum deprivation. The addition of brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) to the culture medium supported the survival and neurite extension of the transformants in a serum-free condition. A Trk-family-specific protein kinase inhibitor, K-252a, inhibited the survival and neurite extension of the transformants in the presence of BDNF. BDNF activated autophosphorylation of trkB and caused the accumulation of a guanosine triphosphate (GTP)-bound form of Ras, both of which effects were also inhibited by K-252a. These results suggested that BDNF-triggered Ras activation is important for the survival and neuronal differentiation of PC12 cells in a serum-free condition.
Our previous studies have proved the presence of substantial amounts of peptidergic nerve fibers in the anterior pituitary of human, monkey, dog, and rat, and synaptic contacts have been demonstrated on corticotrophs and somatotrophs in the dog. The present study is aimed at investigating the synaptic relationship between axons and gland cells in the rat. The substance P-like-immunoreactive nerve fibers were studied immuno-electron-microscopically. They were nonmyelinated and varicose. Typical synaptic contacts between the fibers and every type of the hormone-secreting gland cell could be identified, most frequently on lactotrophs. No synaptic contacts were found on the folliculo-stellate cell. The synaptic contacts were of asymmetrical type with clusters of small round clear vesicles at the presynaptic site and scattered large dense-cored vesicles. This pattern of synaptic relationships was markedly different from that in the dog. The presence of synapses in the anterior pituitary of the rat implies a direct neural regulation of certain cells and strongly supports our hypothesis of neural-humoral dual regulation of this gland.
A rare case of basal ganglionic angioleiomyoma in a 12-year-old girl is reported. She presented with features of raised intracranial tension, multifocal seizures, left hemidystonia and apraxia of eyelid closure. Cranial CT scan showed a large hypodense lesion with an enhancing mural nodule in the region of head of the caudate nucleus on the right side. The lesion was extending to the posterior limb of internal capsule postero-medially and to globus pallidus laterally. Another small, hyperdense, enhancing lesion was seen in the region of globus pallidus on the left side. The right basal ganglionic mass was excised through frontal craniotomy. Histopathological, Immunocytochemical and Ultrastructural examination of the right basal ganglionic mass showed features characteristic of angioleiomyoma. Following surgery the patient improved initially with respect to dystonia but worsened later on. Repeat cranial CT, 20 months after surgery, showed bilateral frontotemporal atrophy without any tumor recurrence while the lesion on the left side remained quiescent.
Neural networks, inspired by the organizational principles of the human brain, have recently been used in various fields of application such as pattern recognition, identification, classification, speech, vision, signal processing, and control systems. In this study, a two-layered neural network has been trained for the recognition of temporal patterns of the electroencephalogram (EEG). This network is called a Learning Vector Quantization (LVQ) neural network since it learns the characteristics of the signal presented to it as a vector. The first layer is a competitive layer which learns to classify the input vectors. The second, linear, layer transforms the output of the competitive layer to target classes defined by the user. We have tested and evaluated the LVQ network. The network successfully detects epileptiform discharges (EDs) when trained using EEG records scored by a neurologist. Epochs of EEG containing EDs from one subject have been used for training the network, and EEGs of other subjects have been used for testing the network. The results demonstrate that the LVQ detector can generalize the learning to previously &quot;unseen&quot; records of subjects. This study shows that the LVQ network offers a practical solution for ED detection which is easily adjusted to an individual neurologist's style and is as sensitive and specific as an expert visual analysis.
The proper targeting and clustering of neurotransmitter receptors at appropriate postsynaptic sites are principal requirements for the formation of functional synapses. Recently, new studies have begun to elucidate the mechanisms underlying the targeting and clustering of glutamate receptors at excitatory synapses in the brain. Members of the SAP90/PSD-95 family of proteins have emerged as potential regulators of glutamate-receptor membrane distribution. Further, targeting motifs within glutamate receptor subunits have been identified. These findings provide important clues in the effort to understand the molecular features of synaptic organization.

Rapid advances are being made in our understanding of the pathogenesis of neurodegenerative diseases, particularly those in which specific DNA mutations have been identified. beta-amyloid has been shown to induce free radical formation both directly and via an effect on endothelial function. There is presuasive evidence for cytochrome oxidase dysfunction with oxidative stress and damage in the brains of patients with Alzheimer's disease. The confirmation of the complex II inhibitor 3-nitropropionic acid as a toxin model for Huntington's disease, together with the demonstration of reduced mitochondrial function in Huntington's disease caudate, supports the proposition that mutant huntingtin may exert its effect through an abnormality of energy metabolism.
The Patch (Ph) mutation in the mouse, a deletion that includes the gene for PDGFR alpha, is a recessive lethal that exhibits a dominant pigment phenotype in heterozygotes. To assess whether the Ph mutation acts cell-autonomously or non-autonomously on melanocyte development, we have examined the melanogenic potential of neural crest populations from normal and mutant crest cells in vitro and the pattern of dispersal and survival of melanocyte precursors (MPs) in vivo. We report that trunk neural crest cells from homozygous Ph embryos give rise to pigmented melanocytes in vitro in response to Steel factor (SlF). In vivo, homozygous Ph embryos contain a subpopulation of crest-derived cells that express c-kit and tyrosinase-related protein-2 characteristic of MPs. These cells begin to migrate normally on the lateral crest migration pathway, but then fail to disperse in the dermal mesenchyme and subsequently disappear. Although dermal mesenchyme is adversely affected in Ph homozygotes, SlF mRNA expression by the cells of the dermatome is normal in Ph embryos when neural crest-derived MPs start to migrate on the lateral pathway. In contrast, mRNA for the SlF receptor, c-kit, was observed to be ectopically expressed in somites and lateral mesenchyme in embryos carrying the Ph mutation. Based on this ectopic expression of c-kit in Ph mutant embryos, and the observed distribution of SlF protein in normal and mutant embryos, we suggest that competition for limited amounts of SlF localized on the lateral neural crest migration pathway alters melanocyte dispersal and survival.
Established efficacy and tolerability in large multicentre controlled studies have made serotonin (5-hydroxytryptamine; 5-HT) reuptake inhibitors (SRIs) the mainstay of monotherapy for adult obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD). When compared with the selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs), the tricyclic compound clomipramine has a higher incidence of adverse effects but is well tolerated by most OCD patients and may confer the best overall antiobsessional effects. Consideration of specific adverse effect profiles, special patient population characteristics, drug interactions and relative cost of the various agents may direct clinicians in choosing the most appropriate first-line drug. Alternative agents as monotherapies have been explored, but none has consistently proven effective to date. Investigations of SRI augmentation with serotonin-enhancing agents have also failed to demonstrate substantial benefits for treatment-refractory OCD. Combination treatment with SRIs and dopamine receptor antagonist drugs appears to provide an improved response for the subpopulation of OCD patients who have comorbid 'tic-spectrum' disorders, though large-scale studies of the efficacy and tolerability of these regimens are not yet available.
During 10 min of sustained isometric plantar flexion at 20% of maximal voluntary contraction, recurrent inhibition of soleus alpha-motoneurons was studied in 9 healthy subjects (age 22-37 years). Recurrent inhibition was brought about by a conditioning H-reflex and assessed by a test H-reflex delivered 10 ms later. The amplitude of the test H-reflex during the tenth minute of the contraction (16.9 +/- 13.2% of the maximal compound motor action potential) was significantly increased as compared to that during the first minute (9.8 +/- 7.6%), while the conditioning H-reflex remained unchanged. Concomitantly, muscle fatigue was evidenced by a significant increase in amplitude of the soleus electromyogram. The increase of the test-H-reflex amplitude implies that a decrease in recurrent inhibition occurred during the sustained submaximal contraction, which contrasts results from studies on maximal voluntary contractions. These results indicate a modulation of soleus Renshaw interneurons, which is likely to serve the purpose of optimising motor unit recruitment and firing rates of this muscle during a sustained submaximal contraction.
Gonadotropin releasing hormone (GnRH) mediates interactions between the neural and the endocrine systems. The GnRH receptor is a member of the ubiquitous seven-transmembrane segment G-protein-coupled receptor class and is the target of drug development for treatment of breast and prostate cancer, regulation of fertility, endometriosis and a range of other medical and veterinary uses. This study shows that occupancy of the receptor by an agonist (but not an antagonist) promotes receptor-receptor interactions which appears to be an early event in hormone action.
Intracellular calcium mobilization is an important early event involved in T cell activation. The endogenous opioid peptide beta-endorphin is known to modulate immune functions that depend on T cell activation, therefore its effect on intracellular calcium mobilization was investigated. The intracellular calcium concentration ([Ca2+]i) of T cell-enriched splenocytes was measured by flow cytofluorometric analysis using the calcium-sensitive dye, Fluo-3. By gating on the T cell marker, Thy-1, a 95%-pure population of T cells was identified for study. Cells preincubated with beta-endorphin showed significantly enhanced [Ca2+]i responses to the mitogen, Concanavalin A (Con A). This was detectable with concentrations of beta-endorphin as low as 10(-13) M; maximal enhancement required 10(-10) to 10(-9) M doses. The efficacy of beta-endorphin was dependent on the duration of pretreatment. beta-Endorphin amplified the Con A-induced increase in [Ca2+]i by reducing the lag time for the response to Con A and by increasing the mean [Ca2+]i of the cells. N-Ac-beta-endorphin, which shows minimal potency at neuronal opiate receptors, was unable to substitute for beta-endorphin. Naltrindole, a highly selective delta opiate receptor antagonist, inhibited the action of beta-endorphin, whereas a selective mu opiate receptor antagonist was ineffective. Although less potent than beta-endorphin, the delta opiate receptor agonist D-Ala2-D-Leu5-enkephalin also significantly enhanced [Ca2+]i responses. In summary, concentrations of beta-endorphin, within the physiological range found in the systemic circulation, modulate the increase in T cell [Ca2+]i induced by Con A. Both the efficacy of D-Ala2-D-Leu5-enkephalin alone and the antagonism of beta-endorphin by naltrindole suggest that a delta-type opiate receptor may mediate these effects.
Inferior olivary cells projecting as climbing fibres to the forelimb area of the cerebellar C3 zone were investigated with respect to their cutaneous and muscle afferent input in barbiturate-anaesthetized cats. Climbing fibre responses were recorded from single cerebellar cortical Purkinje cells on natural stimulation of the skin and on electrical stimulation of nerves to m. biceps brachii, m. triceps brachii and to nine muscles acting as dorsal or palmar flexors of the paw (and, in some cases, the digits). The analysis was focused on the functional organization of convergence between cutaneous and muscle afferents onto single olivary neurons. Cutaneous receptive fields on the dorsal side of the paw and on the digits were generally associated with moderate to strong input from dorsal flexors, but little or no input from palmar flexors or proximal muscles. Receptive fields on the ventral side of the paw and forearm were associated with relatively strong input from biceps and palmar flexors. Climbing fibres with cutaneous receptive fields extending on the ulnar side of the paw and forearm usually received strong input from the triceps and moderate to strong input from dorsal flexors, whereas input from the palmar flexors was weak or lacking. In conclusion, the results indicate that the cutaneous receptive fields in many cases are associated with input from muscles the action of which would tend to move the receptive field towards a stimulus applied to the skin.
We studied the effect of the cholecystokinin tetrapeptide (CCK4), a potent CCKB antagonist, in patients with panic disorder. Two different dosages (25 and 50 micrograms) of CCK4 and saline were tested in 12 patients who were randomly allocated to 2 of the 3 possible treatment groups. Patients were tested on 2 separate occasions, 1 week apart, using an unbalanced single-blind incomplete block design. A total of 24 intravenous injections were carried out. The panic rate with 25 micrograms CCK was 44% (4/9) and 71% (5/7) with 50 micrograms. None of the patients panicked with saline (0/8). Patients' symptom responses were very similar to their spontaneous panic attacks. Taking the Panic Symptom Scale (PSS) as outcome variable, we found that CCK4 provoked symptoms of panic in a dose-dependent fashion. The behavioral response to CCK4 was not accompanied by activation of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis as measured by the prolactin and cortisol responses. Moreover, CCK4-induced panic symptoms were not correlated with plasma increases in the principal noradrenergic metabolite, 3-methoxy-4-hydroxy-phenylglycol (MHPG), suggesting that activation of the locus coeruleus may not be critical for CCK4-induced panic.
The electromyographic (EMG) patterns of neck muscles were recorded during whole-body horizontal rotation in head-free, alert cats and head-restrained, decerebrate cats. In some trials the cervical column of the animal was oriented vertically, whereas in others it was oriented more horizontally. In alert cats making head movements that compensated for the motion of the platform, neck muscles with modulated patterns of activity could be divided into a subset whose individual EMG patterns changed significantly when the neck posture was altered (including longissimus capitis, obliquus capitis superior and scalenus anterior) and a subset whose individual EMG patterns were invariant regardless of neck posture (including obliquus capitis inferior, levator scapulae and complexus). In head-restrained, decerebrate cats, electromyograms from all implanted muscles were modulated similarly in phase with the platform position. Changing the orientation of the neck had little effect upon these EMG patterns evoked by the horizontal vestibulocollic reflex. One decerebrate cat with strong extensor tone was tested further under head-free conditions. There was very little compensatory head movement, but individual neck muscles displayed patterns of activity that were more similar to those observed in alert, head-free animals.
Multipotential progenitor cells grown from central nervous system (CNS) tissues in defined media supplemented with epidermal growth factor (EGF), when attached to a suitable substratum, differentiate to express neural and glial histochemical markers and morphologies. To assess the functional characteristics of such cells, expression of voltage-gated Na+ and K+ currents (INa, IK) was studied by whole-cell patch clamp methods in progenitors raised from postnatal rat forebrain. Undifferentiated cells were acutely dissociated from proliferative &quot;spheres,&quot; and differentiated cells were studied 1-25 days after plating spheres onto polylysine/laminin-treated coverslips. INa and IK were detected together in 58%, INa alone in 11%, and IK alone in 19% of differentiated cells recorded with K(+)-containing pipettes. With internal Cs+ (to isolate INa), INa up to 45 pA/pF was observed in some cells within 1 day after plating. I Na ranged up to 150 pA/pF subsequently. Overall, 84% of cells expressed I Na, with an average of 38 pA/pF. INa had fast kinetics, as in neurons, but steadystate inactivation curves were strongly negative, resembling those of glial INa. Inward tail currents sensitive to [K+]out were observed upon repolarization after the 10-ms test pulse with internal Cs+, indicating the expression of K+ channels in 82% of cells. In contrast to the substantial currents observed in differentiating cells, little or no INa or Ik-tail currents were detected in recordings from cells acutely dissociated from spheres. Thus, in the presence of EGF, ionic currents develop early during differentiation induced by attachment to an appropriate substratum. Cells switched from EGF to basic fibroblast growth factor (bFGF) when plated onto coverslips showed greatly reduced proliferation and developed less neuron-like morphologies than cells plated in the presence of EGF. INa was observed in only 53% of bFGF-treated cells, with an average of 9 pA/pF. Thus, in contrast to reports that bFGF promotes neuronal differentiation in some CNS progenitor populations, our EGF-generated postnatal rat CNS progenitors do not develop neuronal characteristics when switched to medium containing bFGF. Thus, differentiated CNS progenitors can express a mix of neuronal and glial molecular, morphological, and electrophysiological properties that can be modified by culture conditions.
The long-term delivery of growth factors and other proteins into the CNS at putatively therapeutic yet safe levels continues to be technically constrained. In the present studies, the gene encoding human nerve growth factor (hNGF), introduced into a dihydrofolate reductase-based pNUT expression vector system, was engineered into a clonal baby hamster kidney (BHK) cell line. BHK-hNGF23 and mock-transfected cells were encapsulated in an immunoisolating polymeric device and transplanted into the lateral ventricles of healthy young adult rats for 13.5 months. As measured by ELISA, nanogram quantities of hNGF were released by encapsulated cells both prior to implantation (3.6 +/- 0.8 ng/device/24 h) and upon removal from rat lateral ventricles after 13.5 months in vivo (2.2 +/- 0.4 ng/ device/24 h). In addition, the hNGF released into the tissue culture medium was biologically active. Long-term encapsulated cell survival was confirmed by histologic analysis. The presence of genomic DNAs (hNGF transgene), as determined by PCR analyses, revealed that the transgene copy number from the recovered BHK-hNGF23 cells after 13.5 months in vivo was equivalent to preimplant levels. No deleterious effects from hNGF were detectable on body weight, mortality rate, motor/ambulatory function, or cognitive function as assessed with the Morris water maze and delayed matching to position in healthy young adult rats. In addition, there was no evidence that hNGF from these encapsulated cells produced hyperalgesia. Only tests of somatosensory thresholds revealed statistically significant effects related to the hNGF delivered in the present study, and that effect was limited to a decrease in the number of trials to asymptote. Animals receiving BHK-hNGF23 implants exhibited a marked hypertrophy of cholinergic neurons within the striatum (22% increase) and nucleus basalis (7% increase) but not the medial septum ipsilateral to the capsule. Moreover a robust sprouting of cholinergic fibers was observed within the frontal cortex and lateral septum proximal to the implant. These results indicate that encapsulated xenogeneic cells provide a safe and effective method for the long-term delivery of hNGF and potentially other neurotrophic factors within the CNS.


We have previously isolated a novel Ras GTPase-activating protein (Ras GAP), Gap1m, from rat brain. Gap1m is considered to be a negative regulator of the Ras signaling pathways, like other Ras GAPs, neurofibromin, which is a gene product of the neurofibromatosis type I gene, and p120GAP. In this study we have isolated a human cDNA of this Gap and mapped the gene. The gene encodes a protein of 853 amino acids that shows 89% sequence identity to rat Gap1m. The human gene was mapped to chromosome 3 by PCR analysis on a panel of human-mouse hybrid cells. FISH analysis refined the location of the gene further to 3q22-q23.
We analyzed structural motifs of peptides bound to HLA-DR4 (DRB1*0405 and DRB1*0406) and DR9 (DRB1*0901) and found that: (a) AxxBxC motif where A, B, and C are hydrophobic, hydrophobic, and neutral, respectively, is important for binding to DR4; (b) Gln (Q) or Ser at position C allow high-affinity binding specific to DRB1*0406 which is strongly associated with insulin autoimmune syndrome; (c) among human insulin-derived peptide fragments, the TSICSLYQLE of the human insulin alpha chain, which is exposed only under reducing conditions, has the highest affinity specific to DRB1*0406 by binding with the IxxLxQ motif; (d) a short-term human insulin-specific T cell line recognizes a peptide fragment containing the IxxLxQ motif as a major T cell epitope; and (e) in the AxxB motif, where A and B need to be hydrophobic for binding to DR9, neutral Ser is exceptionally allowed at position B. The implications of our results are discussed in light of the HLA-DR4-associated susceptibility to insulin autoimmune syndrome and HLA-DR9-associated susceptibility to juvenile-onset myasthenia gravis and systemic lupus erythematosus with antiphospholipid syndrome, in particular T cell responses to autoantigens.
Because of its evolutionary grade and its relative simplicity, the Urodele brain provides an excellent archetype for the study of forebrain development. Early experiments on Primary Induction took advantage of the Urodele's manipulatability and ease of use, but due to the fact that its ectoderm was very readily neuralized Anurans (especially Xenopus) became the vertebrate of choice for early developmental neurobiology. Recent advances in the molecular biology of neuralization in Xenopus may rejuvenate Urodele use in solving the complicated sequence of events during this process of neural induction and to ascertain if separate or a combination of events (de fault and inductive) are involved. In the future, the combined use of Urodeles and Anurans will provide much information with regard to the evolutionary conservation of the mechanisms of regional specification, gene expression events, neurulation, neuroblast migration, and axonogenesis during the development of the nervous system. The present review provides some recent examples of this approach of using Urodeles and Anurans in a combinatorial fashion to decipher specific aspects of developmental neurobiology.
This paper describes the history of the Italian Society of Neurology (Societ Italiana di Neurologia, SIN), originally an offshoot of the Societ Freniatrica Italiana, whose origins go back to Aversa in 1861, when Biagio Gioacchino Miraglia founded the Societ Frenopatica, the first neuropsychiatric organisation for Italian scientists. The &quot;Societ Freniatrica&quot; was founded in Rome in 1873 and was to bring together neurologists and psychiatrists until 1907, when the SIN was founded with its own Articles of Association (subsequently modified in 1971) and the two specialisations of neurology and psychiatry were recognised as being distinct entities. The first SIN Congress was held in Naples in 1908, and an analysis of its themes and those of subsequent Congresses highlights the fact that, right from the start, the interests of neurologists covered the whole range of the neurosciences: neuroanatomy, histology, physiopathology and clinical neurology. Over the years, special Groups have been established to enable the more profound study of specialised aspects, and the Society of Hospital Neurologists founded.
The perceptual magnet effect is one of the earliest known language-specific phenomena arising in infant speech development. The effect is characterized by a warping of perceptual space near phonemic category centers. Previous explanations have been formulated within the theoretical framework of cognitive psychology. The model proposed in this paper builds on research from both psychology and neuroscience in working toward a more complete account of the effect. The model embodies two principal hypotheses supported by considerable experimental and theoretical research from the neuroscience literature: (1) sensory experience guides language-specific development of an auditory neural map, and (2) a population vector can predict psychological phenomena based on map cell activities. These hypotheses are realized in a self-organizing neural network model. The magnet effect arises in the model from language-specific nonuniformities in the distribution of map cell firing preferences. Numerical simulations verify that the model captures the known general characteristics of the magnet effect and provides accurate fits to specific psychophysical data.

Gap junctions regulate a variety of cell functions by creating a conduit between two apposing tissue cells. Gap junctions are unique among membrane channels. Not only do the constituent membrane channels span two cell membranes, but the intercellular channels pack into discrete cell-cell contact areas forming in vivo closely packed arrays. Gap junction membrane channels can be isolated either as two-dimensional crystals, individual intercellular channels, or individual hemichannels. The family of gap junction proteins, the connexins, create a family of gap junctions channels and structures. Each channel has distinct physiological properties but a similar overall structure. This review focuses on three aspects of gap junction structure: (1) the molecular structure of the gap junction membrane channel and hemichannel, (2) the packing of the intercellular channels into arrays, and (3) the ways that different connexins can combine into gap junction channel structures with distinct physiological properties. The physiological implications of the different structural forms are discussed.

Each larval molt of Manduca sexta culminates in the sequential performance of pre-ecdysis (cuticle loosening) and ecdysis (cuticle shedding) behaviors. Both behaviors are thought to be triggered by the release of a peptide, eclosion hormone (EH), from brain neurons whose axons extend the length of the nervous system. EH bioactivity appears in the hemolymph at the onset of pre-ecdysis behavior, and EH injection can trigger pre-ecdysis and ecdysis behaviors prematurely. The present study examined the effects of removing or disconnecting portions of the central nervous system prior to the time of EH release on the initiation of pre-ecdysis and ecdysis behaviors at the final larval molt. We found that the initiation of pre-ecdysis abdominal compressions at the appropriate time required the terminal abdominal ganglion (AT) but not the brain; the initiation of pre-ecdysis proleg retractions at the appropriate time required neither the AT nor the brain; the initiation of ecdysis at the appropriate time usually required the brain but did not require the AT; and premature pre-ecdysis (but not ecdysis) could be elicited in isolated abdomens by injection of EH. Finally, pre-ecdysis behavior performed by brainless larvae was not associated with the normal elevation of EH bioactivity in the hemolymph or the normal loss of EH immunoreactivity from peripheral neurohemal release sites.
Src homology region 2 (SH2) domain-containing phosphatase 1 (SHP-1; previously named HCP, PTP1C, SH-PTP1, and SHP) is a cytosolic protein tyrosine phosphatase that contains two SH2 domains. Recent data have demonstrated that the gene encoding SHP-1 is mutated in motheaten (mc) and viable motheaten (mc') mice resulting in autoimmune disease. More recently, SHP-1 has been shown to negatively regulate B cell antigen receptor (BCR)-initiated signaling. To elucidate potential mechanisms of SHP-1 action in BCR signal transduction, we studied proteins that interact with SHP-1 in B cells. Both anti-SHP-1 antibody and the two SH2 domains of SHP-1 expressed as glutathione S-transferase fusion proteins precipitated at least three phosphoproteins of approximately 75, 110, and 150 kD upon anti-immunoglobulin M stimulation of the WEHI-231 immature B cell line. Binding of SHP-1 to the 75- and 110-kD proteins appeared to be mediated mainly by the NH2-terminal SH2 domain of SHP-1, whereas both the NH2- and COOH-terminal SH2 domains are required for maximal binding to the 150-kD protein. Immunoprecipitation and Western blot analysis revealed that the SHP-1-associated 75-kD protein is the hematopoietic cell-specific, SH2-containing protein SLP-76. Further, this protein-protein association was constitutively observed and stable during the early phase of BCR signaling. However, significant tyrosine phosphorylation of SLP-76 as well as of SHP-1 was observed after BCR ligation. Constitutive association of SHP-1 with SLP-76 could also be detected in normal splenic B cells. Collectively, these results suggest possible mechanisms by which SHP-1 may modulate signals delivered by BCR engagement.
The receptor proteins, MHVR1 (Bgp C or splice variant of mmCGM1 containing two ectodomains) and MHVR2 (mmCGM2) have been reported to be functional receptors for MHV, although there was a significant difference in their virus-binding activity as determined by virus overlay protein blot assay (VOPBA). To compare the receptor function of these proteins, their virus-binding capacities were tested by using soluble forms of the proteins which lacked the transmembrane and intracytoplasmic domains. To estimate the amounts of these proteins expressed, an epitope of influenza HA protein, for which specific monoclonal antibody was available, was used as a tag. Recombinant soluble MHVR1 and MHVR2, expressed in RK 13 cells using recombinant vaccinia virus were secreted into the culture fluids of infected cells expressing these proteins. The inhibitory effect on virus infectivity of MHVR1 was shown to be about 500-fold higher than that of MHVR2. A similar disparity was observed in virus binding by VOPBA. These two proteins worked as functional receptors when they were expressed on resistant BHK-21 cells. However, the efficiency of MHV infection in BHK-21 cells expressing MHVR1 was about 30-fold higher, as compared with those expressing MHVR2. These data show that the receptor function of MHVR1 was significantly higher than that of MHVR2 and suggests that the difference in susceptibility between SJL and BALB/c mice might be due to the specific receptor protein expressed in those animals.
Jacques Bnigne Winslow (1669-1760) was one of the most brilliant anatomists of the XVIIIth century. Though having Danish origins, he spent most of his life in Paris where he held the chair of anatomy of the Jardin du Roy between 1742 and 1758. Among his numerous contributions in the field of human anatomy, the &quot;Exposition anatomique de la structure du corps humain&quot; (1732) had a great influence on anatomical literature for over a century. Winslow's description of the sympathetic nervous system had a significant importance to the understanding of this controversial part of the nervous system. The structure and distribution of the cervical part of the sympathetic nervous system, as described in his textbook (edition of 1752), were analyzed in the light of our current knowledge. It appears that Winslow not only modified the terminology by replacing the term &quot;intercostal nerve&quot; by that of the &quot;great sympathetic nerve&quot;, but also knew, with a few exceptions, the systematization of the cervical ganglia and their branches. The name of Winslow is therefore undissociable from the history of the sympathetic nervous system.
In the formation of muscle pattern, the architectural arrangement is believed to be controlled by the local connective tissue cells. In this study we examined the immunohistological localization of Type XIV collagen recognized by a monoclonal antibody, MAb DBM, in embryonic chick hind limbs from stage (St.) 27 to 2 weeks post hatching. DBM staining was transiently observed in the epimysium from St. 30, in the perimysium of the dorsal region from St. 37, and in the entire perimysium from St. 39. After hatching, DBM staining was notably diminished in both epimysium and perimysium. In contrast, DBM staining and in situ hybridization signals for Type XIV collagen mRNA increased in the muscle connective tissues after denervation and around the regenerating muscle fibers. Therefore, Type XIV collagen expression appears to coincide with muscle activity and muscle regenerating conditions, and Type XIV collagen is considered to play roles in muscle development and regeneration.
Large changes in neuronal gene expression occur in adult peripheral neurons after axonal transection. In the rat superior cervical ganglion, for example, neurons that do not normally express vasoactive intestinal peptide (VIP) or galanin do so after postganglionic nerve transection. These effects of axotomy could result from a number of aspects of the surgical procedure. To test the idea that the important variable might be the disconnection of axotomized neuronal cell bodies from their target tissues, we examined the effects of producing such a disconnection by means of the compound 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA), a neurotoxin that causes degeneration of sympathetic varicosities and avoids many of the complications of surgery. Two days after 6-OHDA treatment, VIP and galanin immunoreactivities had increased two- and 40-fold, respectively. Nevertheless, these increases were substantially smaller than the 30- and 300-fold changes seen after surgical axotomy. When expression of VIP and galanin was examined at the mRNA level, however, comparable increases were found after either procedure. The results indicate that chemical destruction of sympathetic varicosities produces an equivalent signal for increasing VIP and galanin mRNA as does axonal transection. The differences in the neuropeptide levels achieved suggests that peptide expression after nerve transection is regulated both at the mRNA and protein levels.
We used recombinant adenoviruses as a means of expressing exogenous genes in olfactory neurons in vivo. A replication incompetent adenovirus (type 5, Ad5) carrying the reporter gene lacZ, which codes for the enzyme beta-galactosidase (beta-Gal), was applied in solution to the olfactory epithelia of rats. The expression of lacZ was controlled by the cytomegalovirus immediate-early promoter/enhancer. beta-Gal expression was observed 1 day postinfection and was maximal at 3-10 days, although it could be detected for at least 21 days postinfection. Expression patterns were heterogeneous, ranging from a few percent to over 25% of the cells in different regions of both turbinate and septal epithelium. Staining was stronger in the olfactory versus respiratory epithelia. In olfactory epithelium staining was almost entirely restricted to olfactory neurons. beta-Gal staining was also observed in the olfactory axons so that nerve bundles could be traced to their targets in the glomerular layer of the olfactory bulb. Intense staining of some glomeruli was evident as long as 21 days postinfection. There was no evidence of cell loss or tissue damage due to viral infection. These results demonstrate that it is possible to use recombinant Ad5 for expressing foreign genes in olfactory neurons. This technique could be used in olfactory neurons to increase expression levels of olfactory specific genes, including the odor receptor, putative guidance and growth molecules, or elements of the transduction cascade, in order to elucidate their biological functions in vivo.
The songbird forebrain continues to generate neurons in adulthood, from precursor cells located in the ependymal /subependymal zone (SZ) over the mediocaudal neostriatum. Precursor mitosis is followed by migration of neuronal daughter cells into the underlying forebrain, along radial fibers derived from the SZ. To define the ontogeny of both the new neurons and their radial guide cells, we employed retroviral insertion of the lacZ gene into neostriatal SZ precursor cells derived from postnatal and adult songbirds. We found that single SZ cells generate both neurons and substrate glia in vitro, and in an analogous fashion, both neurons and radial cells in vivo. This suggests that newly generated neurons and radial cells of the adult avian brain derive from a common pluripotential progenitor.
Iron regulatory proteins (IRPs) are cytoplasmic RNA binding proteins that regulate expression of ferritin, erythroid 5-aminolevulinic acid synthase, and transferrin receptor through interaction with conserved RNA stem-loop structures called iron-responsive elements (IREs). Two IRPs (IRP1 and IRP2) have been reported. In the present study we provide evidence for and initial characterization of the IRPs in human brain. Two RNA-protein complexes were obtained by RNA band shift assay on cytoplasmic extracts from human brain. Competition studies indicate that the formations of the RNA-protein complexes are specific to the IRE structure. UV crosslinking of brain cytoplasmic extracts with ferritin IRE RNA transcripts revealed a single RNA-protein complex with a molecular mass of 110 kDa. A single band at 100 kDa was obtained with IRP1 antiserum on western blot analysis of brain cytoplasmic extracts, and a supershift in the RNA-protein complexes was observed with an IRP1 antiserum. Two cDNA clones were isolated from a human brain cDNA library with IRP1 cDNA probes, and both of these cDNA probes recognized a single mRNA species (4.0 kb) from human astrocytoma cells. Purified human brain IRP protein has a molecular mass of approximately 100 kDa and is capable of forming two RNA-protein complexes with ferritin IRE RNA and reacts strongly with IRP1 antiserum. These data indicate that IRP1 is predominant in the adult human brain and, in this tissue, is capable of forming a double IRE/IRP complex. This latter observation suggests the brain IRP undergoes posttranslational modification, the result of which may influence the stability of the IRE/IRP complex.
Awake adult male rats were infused intravenously with [3H]arachidonic acid for 5 min, with or without prior administration of an M1 cholinergic agonist, arecoline (15 mg/kg i.p.). Methylatropine was also administered (4 mg/kg s.c.) to control and arecoline-treated animals. At 15 min postinfusion, the animals were killed, brains were removed and frozen, and subcellular fractions were obtained from homogenates of whole brain. Total radioactivity and radioactivity in various lipid classes were determined for each fraction following normalization for exposure by use of a unidirectional incorporation coefficient, k*brain. In control animals, incorporation was greatest in synaptosomal and microsomal fractions, accounting for 50 and 30% of total label incorporated into membrane lipids, respectively. Arecoline increased incorporation in these two fractions by up to 400% but did not increase incorporation into the myelin, mitochondrial, or cytosolic fractions. Of the incorporated radioactivity, 50-80% was in phospholipid in microsomal and synaptosomal fractions, indicating that phospholipid is the major lipid affected by cholinergic stimulation. These results demonstrate that plasma [3H]arachidonic acid is preferentially incorporated into phospholipids of synaptosomal and microsomal fractions of rat brain. Cholinergic stimulation increases incorporation into these fractions, likely by activation of phospholipase A2 and/or C in association with acyltransferase activity, Thus, intravenously infused radiolabeled arachidonic acid can be used to examine synapse-mediated changes in brain phospholipid metabolism in vivo.
The two pathological lesions found in the brains of Alzheimer's disease patients, neurofibrillary tangles and neuritic plaques, are likely to be formed through a common pathway. Neurofibrillary tangles are intracellular aggregates of paired helical filaments, the main component of which is hyperphosphorylated forms of the microtubule-associated protein tau. Extracellular neuritic plaques and diffuse and vascular amyloid deposits are aggregates of beta-amyloid protein, a 4-kDa protein derived from the amyloid precursor protein (APP). Using conditions in vitro under which two proline-directed protein kinases, glycogen synthase kinase-3beta (GSK-3beta) and mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK), were able to hyperphosphorylate tau, GSK-3beta but not MAPK phosphorylated recombinant APPcyt. The sole site of phosphorylation in APPcyt by GSK-3beta was determined by phosphoamino acid analysis and phosphorylation of APPcyt mutant peptides to be Thr743 (numbering as for APP770). This site was confirmed by endoproteinase Glu-C digestion of APPcyt and peptide sequencing. The ability of GSK-3beta to phosphorylate APPcyt and tau provides a putative link between the two lesions and indicates a critical role of GSK-3beta in the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease.
Previous studies have indicated that increased formation of oxygen free radicals is likely to participate in the cascade of events leading to neuronal damage following kainic acid (KA)-induced seizure activity. As reactive oxygen species are involved in signal transduction pathways leading to nuclear factor-kappaB (NF-kappaB) activation, we examined the effects of KA treatment on the activation of NF-kappaB in adult and juvenile rat brain. For comparison, changes in two other transcription factors, activator protein-1 (AP-1) and Sp1, were also determined. In adult rat piriform cortex and hippocampus, significant induction of NF-kappaB was observed at 4 h after KA injection, and the maximal increase was reached at 8-16 h posttreatment. NF-kappaB binding activities returned to control levels by 5 days after injection. NF-kappaB binding activities were slightly decreased in adult rat cerebellum at 8 and 16 h after KA treatment. In the juvenile rat, no significant changes in NF-kappaB binding activity were observed in piriform cortex, hippocampus, and cerebellum after KA injection. Changes in AP-1 binding activity were qualitatively similar to those observed with NF-kappaB in adult but not juvenile rat brain, as AP-1 was significantly induced in juvenile piriform cortex and hippocampus following KA injection. On the other hand, little or no changes in Sp1 activity were detected in adult and juvenile rat brain. Our results provide further evidence that oxidative stress participates in neuronal damage resulting from KA-induced seizure activity.
Release of endogenous serotonin [5-hydroxy-tryptamine (5-HT)] in the cerebellum of awake rats was characterized using in vivo microdialysis. 5-HT output was increased (approximately 70%) by local application of KCI (100 mM) and was reduced (approximately 60%) by both tetrodotoxin (0.5 microM) and omission of Ca2+ from the perfusion fluid. 5-HT release was decreased (approximately 70%) by the selective 5-HT1A agonist 8-hydroxy-2-(di-n-propylamino)tetralin (0.25 mg/kg, s.c.), and this effect was rapidly reversed by a selective 5-HT1A antagonist, N-[2-[4-(2-methoxyphenyl)-1-piperazinyl]ethyl]-N-(2-pyridinyl)cyclo- hexane-carboxamide trihydrochloride (WAY-100635; 0.1 mg/kg, i.p.). These results indicate that a large portion of the measurable 5-HT output in the cerebellum is of neuronal origin, is dependent on impulse flow, and is sensitive to 5-HT1A autoreceptor activation. Further studies examined the relationship between 5-HT levels and general activity of the animals across the light-dark transition and during behavioral manipulations. Both 5-HT levels and behavioral activity were significantly elevated during the dark period, with changes in 5-HT efflux closely paralleling changes in activity. Similar increases (approximately 40%) in 5-HT output were observed during both feeding and feeding in the presence of a stressor (tail pinch). These findings suggest that behavioral state is an important factor determining neuronal 5-HT release in cerebellum under physiological conditions.
Dopamine can oxidize to form reactive oxygen species and quinones, and we have previously shown that dopamine quinones bind covalently to cysteinyl residues on striatal proteins. The dopamine transporter is one of the proteins at risk for this modification, because it has a high affinity for dopamine and contains several cysteinyl residues. Therefore, we tested whether dopamine transport in rat striatal synaptosomes could be affected by generators of reactive oxygen species, including dopamine. Uptake of [3H]dopamine (250 nM) was inhibited by ascorbate (0.85 mM; -44%), and this inhibition was prevented by the iron chelator diethylenetriaminepentaacetic acid (1 mM), suggesting that ascorbate was acting as a prooxidant in the presence of iron. Preincubation with xanthine (500 microM) and xanthine oxidase (50 mU/ml) also reduced [3H]dopamine uptake (-76%). Preincubation with dopamine (100 microM) caused a 60% inhibition of subsequent [3H]dopamine uptake. This dopamine-induced inhibition was attenuated by diethylenetriaminepentaacetic acid (1 mM), which can prevent iron-catalyzed oxidation of dopamine during the preincubation, but was unaffected by the monoamine oxidase inhibitor pargyline (10 microM). None of these incubations caused a loss of membrane integrity as indicated by lactate dehydrogenase release. These findings suggest that reactive oxygen species and possibly dopamine quinones can modify dopamine transport function.
To study the level of ciliary neurotrophic factor (CNTF) in human nervous tissues, we developed a sensitive enzyme-linked immunoassay using a specific antibody against human CNTF. This method allowed us to detect as little as 0.3 ng/ml of human CNTF with good linearity and accuracy. Using this method, CNTF levels were determined in human sciatic nerves obtained at autopsy from 21 amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) patients and 48 subjects who had died of other neurological diseases. CNTF genotypes were also determined. The results indicated that CNTF levels were high in the normal homozygotes and approximately halved in the heterozygote subjects. There was, however, no significant difference in CNTF levels in the sciatic nerves between ALS and other neurological disease patients, indicating that the CNTF level was mainly determined by its genotypes and that the level in the sciatic nerves was not reduced in ALS patients.
In this study we have analysed the expression of mRNA encoding the m1-m5 mAChR subtypes in human blood mononuclear cells and subpopulations of lymphocytes using reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) technique. Total RNA was extracted from human blood mononuclear cells. T cells, monocytes. EB virus transformed B cells and from two leukemic cell lines and analysed by RT-PCR. Our results indicate that mRNAs for the m3, m4 and m5 muscarinic subtypes are expressed in mononuclear cells and purified T cells while m1 and m2 mRNAs were not detected in these cells. No m1-m5 subtype mRNA was detected in B cells and monocytes, indicating absence of muscarinic receptors in these cells. The expression of muscarinic subtypes in the leukemic T cell line. Peer, and the promyelocytic leukemic cell line HL-60 was different from peripheral mononuclear cells. Both m3 and m5 subtypes were expressed in Peer cells but not the m4 subtype, whereas the m4 and m5 subtypes detected in HL-60 cells.


To study the mechanisms by which glutamate-elicited acetylcholinesterase release (GEAR) might play a part in the pathogenesis of excitotoxically triggered motor neurone disease, and to investigate the interaction of GEAR with spinal glycinergic mechanisms, we measured acetylcholinesterase (AChE) and cholinergic markers, after stimulating ventral horn slices and synaptosomes from the mouse spinal cord, with both glutamate- and glycine-receptor agonists. Glutamate (GLU), kainate and AMPA, as well as glycine (GLY) evoked dose-related, calcium-dependent liberation of soluble forms of AChE from both slices and synaptosomes. GLY-evoked AChE release showed remarkable age-related postnatal changes. In the immature slice of the ventral horn. GLY potentiated the GEAR response in the presence of strychnine, suggesting N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor involvement, and was also able to evoke a strychnine-sensitive AChE release in the absence of exogenous GLU. After the 28th postnatal day, nearly all the AChE secreted was released either after the activation of non-NMDA glutamate receptors or by strychnine-sensitive GLY-evoked AChE release mechanisms. Both GEAR and GLY-evoked AChE release might impair the negative feedback loop which modulates the overactivation of motor neurones, and cause prolonged extracellular rises of soluble AChE. These effects might augment the vulnerability of motor neurones to excitotoxic stress, promote fiber outgrowth, and eventually accelerate the metabolic exhaustion of lower motor neurones. It is possible that the mechanisms described are operative at the spinal cord of ALS/MND patients.
Lazaroids (or 21-aminosteroids) are potent lipid peroxidation inhibitors and are more potent antioxidants than steroids which have been shown to suppress tumor proliferation. The effects of two lazaroid compounds (U-75389G and U-83836E) were tested on the proliferation of a human brain astrocytoma cell line U-373MG. Both lazaroids had dose-dependent growth-inhibitory effects on the proliferation of U-373MG. For purposes of comparison, two steroids (methylprednisolone and dexamethasone) and a highly potent antioxidant (alpha-tocopherol) were tested under similar experimental conditions and were found to have antiproliferative effects as well, although at higher dose ranges. As cell growth-inhibitors, lazaroids are more effective than alpha-tocopherol while they are advantageous over glucocorticoids for their actions are devoid of the usual glucocorticoid side-effects.
1. We recorded single-unit and multi-unit activity in response to transient presentation of texture and grating patterns at 25 sites within the parafoveal representation of V1, V2, and V3 of two awake monkeys trained to perform a fixation task. In grating experiments, stimuli varied in orientation, spatial frequency, or both. In texture experiments, stimuli varied in contrast, check size, texture type, or pairs of these attributes. 2. To examine the nature and precision of temporal coding, we compared individual responses elicited by each set of stimuli in terms of two families of metrics. One family of metrics, D(spike), was sensitive to the absolute spike time (following stimulus onset). The second family of metrics, D(interval), was sensitive to the pattern of interspike intervals. In each family, the metrics depend on a parameter q, which expresses the precision of temporal coding. For q = 0, both metrics collapse into the &quot;spike count&quot; metric D(Count), which is sensitive to the number of impulses but insensitive to their position in time. 3. Each of these metrics, with values of q ranging from 0 to 512/s, was used to calculate the distance between all pairs of spike trains within each dataset. The extent of stimulus-specific clustering manifest in these pairwise distances was quantified by an information measure. Chance clustering was estimated by applying the same procedure to synthetic data sets in which responses were assigned randomly to the input stimuli. 4. Of the 352 data sets, 170 showed evidence of tuning via the spike count (q = 0) metric, 294 showed evidence of tuning via the spike time metric, 272 showed evidence of tuning via the spike interval metric to the stimulus attribute (contrast, check size, orientation, spatial frequency, or texture type) under study. Across the entire dataset, the information not attributable to chance clustering averaged 0.042 bits for the spike count metric, 0.171 bits for the optimal spike time metric, and 0.107 bits for the optimal spike interval metric. 5. The reciprocal of the optimal cost q serves as a measure of the temporal precision of temporal coding. In V1 and V2, with both metrics, temporal precision was highest for contrast (ca. 10-30 ms) and lowest for texture type (ca. 100 ms). This systematic dependence of q on stimulus attribute provides a possible mechanism for the simultaneous representation of multiple stimulus attributes in one spike train. 6. Our findings are inconsistent with Poisson models of spike trains. Synthetic data sets in which firing rate was governed by a time-dependent Poisson process matched to the observed poststimulus time histogram (PSTH) overestimated clustering induced by D(count) and, for low values of q, D(spike)[q] and D(intervals)[q]. Synthetic data sets constructed from a modified Poisson process, which preserved not only the PSTH but also spike count statistics accounted for the clustering induced by D(count) but underestimated the clustering induced by D(spike)[q] and D(interval)[q].
1. In lamprey, stretch receptor neurons (SRNs), also referred to as edge cells, are located along the lateral margin of the spinal cord. They sense the lateral movements occurring in each swim cycle during locomotion. The isolated lamprey spinal cord in vitro was used to investigate the activity of SRNs during fictive locomotion induced by bath-applied N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA). Intracellular recordings with potassium acetate filled electrodes showed that 63% of SRNs had a clear locomotor-related modulation of their membrane potential. 2. Of the modulated SRNs, two-thirds had periods of alternating excitation and inhibition occurring during the ipsilateral and the contralateral ventral root bursts, respectively. The phasic hyperpolarization could be reversed into a depolarizing phase after the injection of chloride ions into the cells; this revealed a chloride-dependent synaptic drive. The remaining modulated SRNs were inhibited phasically during ipsilateral motor activity. 3. Experiments with barriers partitioning the recording chamber with the spinal cord into three pools, allowed an inactivation of the locomotor networks within one pool by washing out NMDA from the pool in which the SRN was recorded. This resulted in a marked reduction, but not an abolishment, of the amplitude of the membrane potential oscillations. Both the excitatory and the inhibitory phases were reduced, resulting from removal of input from inhibitory and excitatory interneurons projecting from the adjacent pools. If the glycine receptor antagonist strychnine (1 microM) was applied in one pool, the phasic hyperpolarizing phase disappeared without affecting the excitatory phase. 4. Bath application of the gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA)A receptor antagonist, bicuculline (50-100 microM) blocked the spontaneous large unitary inhibitory postsynaptic potentials, which occurred without a clear phasic pattern. Bicuculline had no significant effect on the peak to peak amplitude of the locomotor-related membrane potential oscillations. The inhibition in SRNs therefore has a dual origin: glycinergic interneurons provide phasic inhibition, while the GABA system can exert a tonic inhibition via GABAA receptors. 5. These data show that, in addition to the stretch-evoked excitation, which SRNs receive during each locomotor cycle, most of them also receive excitation from the central pattern generator network during the ipsilateral contraction, which may ensure a maintained high level of sensitivity to stretch during the shortening phase of the locomotor cycle. This arrangement is analogous to the efferent control of muscle spindles exerted by gamma-motoneurons in mammals, which as a rule are coactivated with alpha-motoneurons to the same muscle (alpha-gamma linkage).
1. The effect of gamma-aminobutyric acid-B (GABAB)-receptor activation on excitatory synaptic transmission in the rat supraoptic nucleus (SON) was examined using the nystatin perforated-patch whole cell recording technique in coronal hypothalamic slices. 2. Stimulation of the hypothalamic region dorso-medial to the SON elicited glutamate and GABAA-receptor-mediated synaptic responses in electrophysiologically identified magnocellular neurosecretory cells. 3. Bath application of the GABAB-receptor agonist, +/- -baclofen reversibly reduced pharmacologically isolated, glutamate-mediated excitatory postsynaptic currents (EPSCs) in a concentration-dependent manner. At the concentrations used, baclofen altered neither the postsynaptic conductances of these cells nor their response to bath applied alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methylisoxazole-4-propionic acid (AMPA). 4. The baclofen-induced synaptic depression was accompanied by an increase in paired pulse facilitation (PPF). This increase in PPF, as well as the synaptic depression, was blocked by the GABAB-receptor antagonists CGP36742 and saclofen. 5. In addition to blocking the actions of baclofen in this nucleus, CGP36742 caused an increase in the evoked EPSC amplitude without altering postsynaptic cell conductances or responses induced by bath-applied AMPA. Contrary to the action of CGP36742, saclofen caused a baclofen-like depression of the evoked EPSC, suggesting that it may act as a partial GABAB receptor agonist. 6. These results indicate that the activation of presynaptic GABAB receptors reduces fast excitatory synaptic transmission in the SON. They further suggest that presynaptic GABAB receptors may be tonically activated in vitro. Thus GABAB receptors may influence the level of activity and excitation of SON neurons and hence modulate the secretion of the regulatory neuropeptides vasopressin and oxytocin.
1. Textures formed by periodic dot arrays are defined by the dot density, spacing, and angular orientation with respect to the direction of motion. In this report we evaluate the effects of the dot density (intensive cues) and arrangement (spatial cues) on the ability of human subjects to discriminate texture patterns scanned across an OPTACON tactile stimulator that selective stimulates rapidly adapting cutaneous mechanoreceptors. We compared dot arrays arranged on the index finger in specific patterns (horizontal, vertical, diamond, up diagonal, or down diagonal orientation) and spaced 4.8, 7.2, or 9.6 mm apart (high, medium, and low density) with the use of a two-alternative forced-choice protocol. 2. Textures are well discriminated when their elements are tightly spaced along one axis and widely spaced on all other axes. Humans distinguish textures that differ only in orientation with mean accuracy of 75% at low density and 65% at medium density, but discriminate high-density textures poorly (mean accuracy = 48%). Accuracy is related to the angular disparity between patterns, and to similarity of spacing and orientation along major and minor axes of the arrays. Vertical and horizontal patterns are more accurately distinguished than the oblique ones, and diamond arrays are the least well discriminated. Diagonal and diamond textures are often confounded, and the up and down diagonal patterns are confused with each other particularly as the texture density rises. The preference for the vertical and horizontal patterns may relate to an interaction between the orientation axis of the texture and its direction of motion across the skin. 3. Intensive cues provided by the total number of applied stimuli supplement the spatial cues inherent to the pattern orientation, because textures that differ in both spacing and orientation are discriminated better than those that differ only in orientation or spacing. Mean accuracy ranges from 96% for comparisons of high- and low-density textures, which differ in the total number of dots by a factor of 2, to 80% when medium-density patterns are compared with high- or low-density textures. 4. Textures that differ in density but not in orientation are less well discriminated than those of different orientation. For example, 82% of patterns that differ in both density and orientation are distinguished correctly in pairings of low- and medium-density textures, whereas those that differ only in density are discriminated correctly on 45% of trials. Subjects seem to use spatial rather than intensive cues when discriminating patterns of similar density, suggesting that the similarity of form (the spatial arrangement of the closely spaced dots) is more readily apparent than small differences in spacing along the axis of motion. 5. Subjects are most most successful in differentiating texture patterns when they are able to mentally picture the orientation and spacing of the pattern. We found a strong correlation between the subjects' ability to discriminate textures of a given spacing and their ability to identify the specific texture by matching it to the appropriate visual representation. Subjects are able to identify correctly all five orientations at low and medium densities, with mean accuracy of 76%, but recognize only the vertical arrays when high-density patterns are presented. The ability to image the textures is noteworthy, because subjects received no feedback about performance. 6. Spatial imaging of textures appears limited by the diameter of cutaneous receptive fields on the hand. We propose that the structural axis of a regular texture array results from perceptual linkage of adjacent elements along one principal axis by continuous bands of neural activity when their spacing is smaller than the receptive field diameter.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED)
1. The contribution of voltage-activated outward potassium currents to membrane excitability of neurons in the rat's dorsal nucleus of the lateral lemniscus (DNLL) was studied in a brain slice preparation using whole cell patch-clamp and intracellular recordings. Voltage-clamp methods and pharmacological manipulations were used to examine the currents regulating membrane dynamics in DNLL. 2. A delayed sustained outward current was evoked by applying depolarizing voltage steps across the cell membrane from a holding potential of -50 mV. An additional transient outward current was evoked when the depolarizing steps were preceded by a hyperpolarizing prepulse of -110 or -120 mV. 3. The transient outward current peaked within 6.8 ms of the onset of a depolarizing pulse. It decayed with a time constant of 12.3 ms for a 60-mV depolarizing voltage shift. Half-inactivation of this current occurred at -81.3 mV. The time constant for removal of the inactivation was 17.4 ms. The transient current had a high sensitivity to 4-aminopyridine (4-AP). 4. The sustained current was activated more slowly and was more sensitive to tetraethylammonium (TEA) than the transient current. The sustained current had both Ca2+-dependent and Ca2+-independent components. The Ca2+-dependent portion emerged at potentials of about -35 mV and was activated fully at +10 mV. The Ca2+-independent component was activated at potentials more positive than -40 mV and increased in magnitude with further depolarization. Inactivation of the Ca2+-independent component was voltage dependent. Also, TEA suppressed the Ca2+-independent compound. 5. The transient current in DNLL neurons closely resembled the A current (IA) described for hippocampal and other neurons in both kinetics and pharmacology. The Ca2+-independent component of the sustained current resembled the K current (IK) described for other neurons in both its properties of activation and inactivation and its pharmacology. 6. The outward current of some DNLL neurons was found to contain a dendrotoxin-sensitive component. This component reached its peak at 6.8 ms and had voltage-sensitive time constants of decay of 25.5 and 8.5 ms with voltage steps of 40 and 60 mV, respectively. 7. Application of 4-AP and TEA markedly prolonged the spike width, abolished the fast component of the after hyperpolarization and depolarized the cell membrane. Also, the number of action potentials produced by positive current injection increased under the influence of 4-AP and TEA. Membrane excitability and spike repolarization were dependent on both 4-AP-sensitive transient and TEA-sensitive sustained currents. 8. Neurons in DNLL typically exhibit a steady discharge of action potentials in response to sustained membrane depolarization. The rate and temporal pattern of production of action potentials in these cells are determined by the combination of transient and sustained potassium channels.
1. In our previous work, we demonstrated that the glycinergic and GABAergic mechanisms that help mediate the descending inhibition from the periaqueductal gray exert a tonic modulation of nociceptive inputs through spinal glycine and gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) receptors. This study was designed to examine further possible changes in the inhibition of the activity of spinothalamic tract (STT) neurons mediated by spinal glycine and GABA receptors when STT cells are sensitized by intradermal injection of capsaicin, and to investigate the role of the protein kinase C (PKC) system in the functional modulation of these receptors. 2. Although the responses of STT cells to cutaneous mechanical stimuli were sensitized by intradermal injection of capsaicin, the inhibition of the responses of all STT cells tested to noxious cutaneous stimuli produced by iontophoretic release of glycine and GABA was significantly attenuated. The inhibition elicited by iontophoretic application of a GABAA agonist, muscimol, was reduced in some of the cells tested. 3. When the spinal cord dorsal horn was pretreated with a selective PKC inhibitor, 2,6-diamino-N-([1-oxotridecyl-2-piperidinyl]- methyl)hexanamide, by microdialysis, sensitization of STT cells by capsaicin injection and the accompanying attenuation of glycine- and GABA-induced inhibition were prevented. 4. Sensitization of STT cells to cutaneous mechanical stimuli was also induced by administration of the PKC activator, 12-O-tetradecanoylphorbol-13-acetate, into the spinal dorsal horn. The inhibition produced by iontophoretic release of glycine, GABA, and muscimol was found to be reduced in most cells examined when this phorbol ester was used. An inactive phorbol ester, 4 alpha-phorbol 12,13-didecanoate, did not produce significant effects on cellular activity. 5. These results suggest that there is an activation of PKC in the spinal cord when STT neurons are sensitized after intradermal injection of capsaicin or administration of phorbol ester. This sensitization is likely to be involved in the development of allodynia and secondary hyperalgesia not only by enhancing the responses of excitatory amino acid receptors but also by desensitizing glycine and GABA receptors.
1. The regulation of A-current, one of several transient voltage-gated potassium currents, was studied using whole cell gigaohm seal voltage-clamp techniques on hippocampal pyramidal neurons that were either acutely dissociated from postnatal mouse brain or isolated from embryonic mouse brain and grown in dissociated culture. These neurons also express gamma-aminobutyric acid-A (GABAA) receptors, the activation of which can, under some circumstances, depolarize immature neurons and the dendrites of more mature neurons. 2. Application of GABA (50 microM) reduced the amplitude of A-current when potassium current amplitude was measured during a period of slow and incomplete desensitization of IGABA. A-current was reduced to 67 +/- 9% of control (mean +/- SD, n - 14) in acutely dissociated neurons, and to 64 +/- 11% of control (n = 15) in cultured neurons. Similar A-current reductions were seen in large outside-out membrane patches pulled from somata of cultured neurons, an observation suggesting that imperfect control of membrane voltage was not responsible for A-current inhibition. 3. A-current inhibition exhibited the sensitivity expected of a GABAA-sensitive process. It was mimicked by muscimol and blocked by bicuculline, picrotoxin, and reduction of [Cl-] in the external solution. Baclophen and phaclophen, effective as agonist and antagonist on GABAB receptors, did not affect A-currents or their inhibition. Reduction in extracellular osmolarity (to increase cell swelling as might occur with Cl- entry), or removal of external HCO3- (which might flow inward through GABAA channels and cause local external acidification), did not affect A-current or its inhibition. The mechanisms of inhibition is not clear at present. 4. We suggest that reduced A-current may favor GABA-induced depolarization and consequent activation of voltage-gated calcium channels.
Previous studies in animals and humans suggest that monoamines enhance behavior-evoked neural activity relative to nonspecific background activity (i.e., increase signal-to-noise ratio). We studied the effects of dextroamphetamine, an indirect monoaminergic agonist, on cognitively evoked neural activity in eight healthy subjects using positron-emission tomography and the O15 water intravenous bolus method to measure regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF). Dextroamphetamine (0.25 mg/kg) or placebo was administered in a double-blind, counterbalanced design 2 hr before the rCBF study in sessions separated by 1-2 weeks. rCBF was measured while subjects performed four different tasks: two abstract reasoning tasks--the Wisconsin Card Sorting Task (WCST), a neuropsychological test linked to a cortical network involving dorsolateral prefrontal cortex and other association cortices, and Ravens Progressive Matrices (RPM), a nonverbal intelligence test linked to posterior cortical systems--and two corresponding sensorimotor control tasks. There were no significant drug or task effects on pCO2 or on global blood flow. However, the effect of dextroamphetamine (i.e., dextroamphetamine vs placebo) on task-dependent rCBF activation (i.e., task - control task) showed double dissociations with respect to task and region in the very brain areas that most distinctly differentiate the tasks. In the superior portion of the left inferior frontal gyrus, dextroamphetamine increased rCBF during WCST but decreased it during RPM (ANOVA F (1,7) = 16.72, p &lt; 0.0046). In right hippocampus, blood flow decreased during WCST but increased during RPM (ANOVA F(1,7) = 18.7, p &lt; 0.0035). These findings illustrate that dextroamphetamine tends to &quot;focus&quot; neural activity, to highlight the neural network that is specific for a particular cognitive task. This capacity of dextroamphetamine to induce cognitively specific signal augmentation may provide a neurobiological explanation for improved cognitive efficiency with dextroamphetamine.
Exposure to mild stress is known to activate dopamine (DA), serotonin (5-HT), and norepinephrine (NE) metabolism in the anteromedial prefrontal cortex (m-PFC). Neuroanatomical site(s) providing afferent control of the stress activation of the m-PFC monoaminergic systems is at present unknown. The present study used a conditioned stress model in which rats were trained to fear a substartle-threshold tone paired previously with footshock and assessed for behavioral, neuroendocrine, and neurochemical stress responses. Bilateral NMDA-induced excitotoxic lesioning of the basolateral and central nuclei of the amygdala was performed before or after training. Pretraining amygdala lesions blocked stress-induced freezing behavior, ultrasonic vocalizations, adrenocortical activation, and dopaminergic metabolic activation in the m-PFC. Post-training amygdala lesions blocked stress-induced m-PFC DA, 5-HT, and NE metabolic activation. Post-training amygdala lesions also blocked stress-induced freezing and defecation, and greatly attenuated adrenocortical activation. These data provide evidence of amygdalar control of stress-induced metabolic activation of the monoaminergic systems in the m-PFC, as well as amygdalar integration of behavioral and neuroendocrine components of the rat stress response. These results are discussed in terms of possible relevance to stress-induced exacerbation of schizophrenic symptoms and the pathophysiology of posttraumatic stress disorder.
Schwann cells proliferate, migrate, and act as sources of neurotrophic support during development and regeneration of peripheral nerves. Recent studies have demonstrated that neuregulins, a family of growth factors secreted by developing motor and peripheral neurons, influence Schwann cell development. In this study, we use three distinct assays to show that glial growth factor 2 (GGF2), a secreted neuregulin, exerts multiple effects on mature Schwann cells in vitro. At doses submaximal for proliferation, GGF2 increases the motility of Schwann cells cultured on peripheral nerve cryosections. Furthermore, in a novel bioassay, focal application of GGF2 causes directed migration in conventional monolayer cultures of directed migration of Schwann cells. At higher doses, GGF2 causes proliferation, as described previously. In a new explant culture system designed to emulate entubulation repair of transected peripheral nerves, GGF2 concentrations greater than necessary to saturate the mitotic response induce the secretion by Schwann cells of activities that promote sympathetic neuron survival and outgrowth. These findings support a model in which neuregulins secreted by peripheral neurons are key components of reciprocal neuron-glia interactions that are important for peripheral nerve development and regeneration.
Huntington's disease is a progressive neurodegenerative disease that affects the striatum, above all, the GABAergic striatal projection neurons. In the present study, we have explored the use of genetically modified neural stem cell lines producing nerve growth factor (NGF) or brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) as a means to protect the striatal neurons against excitotoxic damage after transplantation to the striatum, 1 week before the injection of quinolinic acid into the same area. One month after the lesion, striatal degeneration, lesion size, and loss of DARPP-32-positive projection neurons were only slightly affected by the BDNF-secreting cells, but substantially prevented when NGF-producing stem cells were used as a source of exogenous trophic factor; innervation of the target fields (pars reticulata of the substantia nigra and the globus pallidus) was preserved as well. Cholinergic striatal interneurons (choline acetyltransferase- immunoreactive) were affected by the lesion and completely rescued by the NGF-transduced cells. The astroglial and microglial reactions to the excitotoxic lesion were substantially reduced in the striata, which had received transplants of NGF-producing cells. The generalized protective effects of the NGF-producing cell grafts in this model are discussed in the context of an indirect action preventing the development of toxicity mediated by cellular elements in the host striatum in response to the excitotoxin. We conclude that continuous supply of trophic factors by means of genetically modified neural stem cells represents a highly effective procedure to counteract neuronal degeneration in the excitotoxically lesioned striatum.
Trains of action potentials in hippocampal pyramidal neurons are followed by a prolonged afterhyperpolarization (AHP) lasting several seconds, which is attributable to the activation of a slow calcium-activated potassium current ((sI)AHP). Here we examine the location of (sI)AHP on CA1 pyramidal neurons by comparing it with two GABAergic inhibitory postsynaptic currents (IPSCs) with known somatic and dendritic locations. Whole-cell patch-clamp recordings were made for CA1 pyramidal neurons in acute hippocampal slices. Stepping the membrane potential at the peak of (sI)AHP produced a relaxation (&quot;switchoff&quot;) of the AHP current with a time constant of 7.4 +/- 0.4 msec (mean +/- SEM). The switchoff time constants for somatic and dendritic GABAA IPSCs were 3.5 +/- 0.5 msec and 8.8 +/- 0.3 msec, respectively. This data, together with cable modeling, indicates that active (sI)AHP channels are distributed over the proximal dendrites within approximately 200 micrometers of the soma. Excitatory postsynaptic potentials (EPSPs) evoked in stratum (s.) radiatum had their amplitudes shunted more by the AHP than did EPSPs evoked in s. oriens, suggesting that active AHP channels are restricted to the apical dendritic tree. Blockade of the AHP during a tetanus, which in control conditions elicited a decremental short-term potentiation (STP), converted STP to long-term potentiation (LTP). Thus, activation of the AHP increases the threshold for induction of LTP. These results suggest that in addition to its established role in spike frequency adaptation, the AHP works as an adjustable gain control, variably hyperpolarizing and shunting synaptic potentials arising in the apical dendrites.
Immunoelectrodes have been developed which can be used to detect minute amounts of somatostatin. They were made with electrochemically treated glassy carbon fibres coated with anti-somatostatin antibodies. Calibration and various controls were carried out to ensure that the immunoelectrodes responded specifically to the presence of femtomolar somatostatin. Electrophysiological experiments were performed on anti-somatostatin immunoreactive neurones in the snails Helix aspersa and H. pomatia. Somatostatin-like material was released in response to sustained firing. The release was measured at the soma, which means that it occurred in the extrasynaptic area. The finding that the fluorescent dye FM 1-43 was incorporated into somatic vesicles confirmed that exocytosis actually occurred during sustained neuronal firing.
In rodents, postischemic hypothermia can provide robust and long-term functional and histological neuroprotection, even when intervention is delayed for several hours following ischemia. This generates a need to follow temperature precisely for many hours, perhaps several days if a hypothermic effect is to be studied or excluded. Such protracted temperature control (&gt; 24 h) is difficult and often lethal when performed under general anesthesia. In awake animals, manual temperature control is safer, but exceedingly time consuming and tedious, and is impractical for large experiments. The present method allows for continuous brain temperature measurement and control in free-moving rats and gerbils. Brain temperature was measured by wireless AM probes while feedback regulation was achieved by servo-control of a lamp, fan and water misting system. Hypothermia was easily induced and maintained for 24 h at 32 degrees C in both gerbils and rats. Gerbils also tolerated 24 h at 32 degrees C followed by 24 h at 34 degrees C. This 'exposure technique' is capable of safely producing lengthy periods of mild hypothermia in rats and gerbils. Furthermore, this method can clamp temperature when temperature-altering drugs are given. For example, temperature was maintained in MK-801 drugged gerbils. The system is, therefore, eminently suitable for drug neuroprotection studies in brain ischemia.
This paper describes a low-cost system for in situ visualization and photoablation of single neurons. The system includes a fiber optics light source equipped with a filter port, a blue excitation filter and a yellow barrier filter, and a light guide which terminates with a focusing lens. This system is inexpensive, easy to use, and requires minimal maintenance. Given its price, this system is readily accessible and has the potential of becoming standard equipment for in situ visualization and killing of individual neurons.
According to the dictionary, challenge is a stimulating or interesting task or problem. But neuroscience nurses can offer a more comprehensive definition, especially in the context of caring for a patient and their family after an unsuccessful suicide attempt. This situation stimulates our thinking about why individuals try to take their lives, how suicide is attempted and what we, as nurses, can do to turn a hopeless situation into one of hope.
Light microscopic anterograde tracing studies indicate that neurons in the central nucleus of the amygdala (CNA) project to a region of the dorsal pontine tegmentum ventral to the superior cerebellar peduncle which contains noradrenergic dendrites of the nucleus locus coeruleus (LC). However, it has not been established whether the efferent terminals from the CNA target catecholamine-containing dendrites of the LC or dendrites of neurons from neighboring nuclei which may extend into this region. To examine this question, we combined immunoperoxidase labeling of the anterograde tracer biotinylated dextran amine (BDA) from the CNA with immunogold-silver labeling of the catecholamine-synthesizing enzyme tryrosine hydroxylase (TH) in the rostrolateral LC region of adult rats. By light microscopy, BDA-labeled processes were dense in the dorsal pons within the parabrachial nuclei as well as in the pericoerulear region immediately ventral to the superior cerebellar peduncle. Higher magnification revealed that BDA-labeled varicose fibers overlapped TH-labeled processes in this pericoerulear region. By electron microscopy, anterogradely labeled axon terminals contained small, clear as well as some large dense core vesicles and were commonly apposed to astrocytic processes along some portion of their plasmalemma. BDA-labeled terminals mainly formed symmetric type synaptic contacts characteristic of inhibitory transmitters. Of 250 BDA-labeled axon terminals examined where TH immunoreactivity was present in the neuropil, 81% contacted unlabeled and 19% contacted TH-labeled dendrites. Additionally, amygdala efferents were often apposed to unlabeled axon terminals forming asymmetric (excitatory type) synapses. These results demonstrate that amygdaloid efferents may directly alter the activity of catecholaminergic and non-catecholaminergic neurons in this pericoerulear region of the rat brain. Furthermore, our study suggests that CNA efferents may indirectly affect the activity of pericoerulear neurons through modulation of excitatory afferents. Amygdaloid projections to noradrenergic neurons may help integrate behavioral and visceral responses to threatening stimuli by influencing the widespread noradrenergic projections from the LC.
Previous studies have shown morphine (50.0 mg/kg, s.c.) suppresses cytotoxic T lymphocyte (CTL) activity in alloimmunized mice. The present study was undertaken to assess the dose-dependent nature of the suppressive effect of subchronic morphine exposure on CTL activity in vivo. In alloimmunized ICR mice, morphine (10.0-100.0 mg/kg, s.c.) administered daily for 5 days significantly suppressed CTL activity ( &gt; 50%) in a dose-dependent and naltrexone (10.0 mg/kg, s.c.)-reversible fashion. The morphine-treated mice showed tolerance to the drug after daily exposure over 5 days as determined by measuring tail flick latency during thermal application. CD4(+)- and CD8(+)-depletion studies showed that effector cells were predominately CD8+ and mediated cytolysis through a Ca(++)-dependent pathway. Splenocytes obtained from the morphine (56.0-100.0 mg/kg)-treated, alloimmunized mice produced significantly less (30-40%) interferon-gamma but not interleukin-2 or interleukin-10 after antigen stimulation but not concanavalin A stimulation. Furthermore, this effect was dose- and time-dependent. In addition, there was a modest decrease (10%) in the interferon-gamma transcript level from the morphine (56.0-100.0 mg/kg)-treated, alloimmunized mice compared with vehicle-treated, alloimmunized mice as determined by quantitative reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction. However, there were no differences in the perforin transcript levels between morphine- and vehicle-treated mice. Collectively, these results suggest that subchronic morphine exposure suppresses CTL activity in tolerized, alloimmunized mice through a pathway that may peripherally involve interferon-gamma production.
Glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF) has trophic effects on developing dopamine neurons, enhances survival of embryonic motoneurons in vitro and prevents axotomy-induced motoneuron atrophy in vivo. Here we investigate effects of GDNF on grafts of cortex cerebri tissue from E18, P1 and P8 donors and on spinal cord tissue for P8 and adult animals transplanted to the anterior chamber of the eye of host rats. Grafts were treated with GDNF or cytochrome C on days 0, 5, 10, 15, 20 and 25 (total amounts 0.5 microgram GDNF/eye/injection). Spinal cord grafts from P8 donors treated with GDNF grew to sizes larger than controls, had higher numbers of neuron-like cells and showed increased areas of neurofilament immunoreactivity and decreased glial fibrillary acidic protein immunoreactivity. In contrast to the P8 spinal cord grafts, there were no such effects observed in adult spinal cord grafts or in E18, P1 or P8 cerebral cortex grafts. To determine if an endogenous source of GDNF might exert similar effects on spinal cord grafts, we transplanted spinal cord tissue from P1 together with pieces of developing kidney, known to express high levels of GDNF mRNA. Spinal cord cografted with kidney tissue grew to a slightly larger extent then controls. We conclude that GDNF exerts a powerful trophic effect on P8 spinal cord grafts, although GDNF appears unable to support survival of grafted adult spinal cord tissue. Grafts of cortex cerebri from several different stages of development were not affected.
Iloperidone {HP 873: 1-[4-[3-[4-(6-fluoro-1, 2-benzisoxazol-3-yl)-1-piperidinyl]propoxy] -3-methoxyphenyl]ethanone} is a dopamine (D2)/serotonin (5-HT2) receptor antagonist with the preclinical profile of an atypical antipsychotic based on biochemical studies in rats. Iloperidone significantly increased dopa accumulation, an index of dopamine turnover in response to D2 receptor blockade, at doses from 0.3 to 10 mg/kg i.p. in the striatum and from 1 to 10 mg/kg in the nucleus accumbens. Blockade of dopaminergic presynaptic autoreceptors was measured by the reversal of apomorphine-inhibition of gamma-butyrolactone-induced dopa synthesis. Iloperidone did not significantly reverse the apomorphine inhibition of gamma-butyrolactone-induced dopa synthesis at any of the doses tested (0.3-10 mg/kg i.p.). In ex vivo receptor autoradiography studies, a 30-min pretreatment with iloperidone (2.5-20 mg/kg i.p.) inhibited the binding of [3H]spiperone to cortical and subcortical 5-HT2 receptors by 42 to 94%, in contrast to only 1 to 15% inhibition of [3H]spiperone binding to D2 receptors in the nucleus accumbens and striatum. Iloperidone, at 2.5 mg/kg i.p., inhibited 5-HT2 receptor binding by 54 to 62% at 4-hr post-treatment, whereas there was negligible inhibition of D2 receptors. Chronic treatment with 5 mg/kg i.p. of iloperidone for 19 days significantly decreased the number of 5-HT2 receptors in the frontal cortex with no change in receptor affinity. D2 receptor number and affinity were unchanged in the nucleus accumbens and six regions of the striatum. In summary, iloperidone is a 5-HT and dopamine receptor antagonist with weak activity at presynaptic dopamine autoreceptors. Potent 5-HT2 receptor antagonism may be an important component in the preclinical profile of iloperidone as a potential atypical antipsychotic.
Human cDNAs encoding N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor type (NMDAR)1A, NMDAR2A and NMDAR2B subunits were cloned and receptors encoded by these cDNAs were functionally expressed by injection of the respective mRNAs in Xenopus oocytes. The pharmacological properties of recombinant human N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptors were characterized by profiling two agonists and four antagonists at both the NMDA and glycine sites in voltage-clamped oocytes. NMDA, glycine and D-serine were significantly more potent at human NMDAR (hNMDAR)1A/2B receptors than at nNMDAR1A/2A, whereas there was no detectable subtype-dependent difference in the potency of glutamate. Of the NMDA-site antagonists tested, CGP 43487 and 3-(2-carboxypiperazin-4-yl) propyl-1-phosphonate exhibited 5.8- and 3.9-fold greater potency, respectively, at hNMDAR1A/2A receptors than at hNMDAR1A/2B. Of the four glycine-site competitive antagonists tested, L-689,560 displayed 5-fold greater potency at hNMDAR1A/2A, whereas 5,7-dichlorokynurenic acid, HA-966 and CGP 58411 did not discriminate between hNMDAR1A/2A and hNMDAR1A/2B. Receptors resulting from injection of hNMDAR1A, hNMDAR2A and hNMDAR2B transcripts in a 1:1:1 ratio were indistinguishable from hNMDAR1A/2B receptors in terms of their sensitivity to NMDA, glycine, D-serine, CGS 19755 and CGP 40116. Ifenprodil was approximately 350-fold more potent at hNMDAR1A/2B than at hNMDAR1A/2A receptors. Ifenprodil sensitivities of receptors formed in oocytes injected with a constant amount of hNMDAR1A mRNA but varying ratios of hNMDAR2A or hNMDAR2B mRNAs were compared. The receptors expressed at a 10:1 ratio of 2A:2B transcripts displayed an ifenprodil sensitivity that would be predicted for a population in which 51% was represented by hNMDAR(1A)2(2A)3 complexes. Our results underscore the need for subtype-selective compounds acting at novel sites to sufficiently probe the pharmacological differences between NMDA receptor subtypes formed by different subunit combinations.
The biological sciences have been dominated by 'classicist' science-predicated on the post-Enlightenment belief that a real world exists, which behaves according to notions of causality and consistency. Although medicine, and by implication psychiatric nursing, derives its explanatory power from such a science, much of its focus-illness-is not amenable to causal explanation or prediction. The theoretical developments of the 'new physics' have been used to redefine science and, as a result, have challenged traditional constructions of reality. The new physics are usually framed in terms of the physical world, or to construe consciousness. In this paper I shall consider the implications of chaos-a relative of the new physics-for psychiatric nursing practice. As nursing appears to crave a 'certainty principle' to govern the theoretical underpinnings of practice, this study considers how chaos might contribute to a metaparadigm of nursing.

There is increasing evidence supporting the hypothesis that telomere shortening both in vitro and in vivo, is the clock that counts cell divisions and determines the onset of cellular senescence. Cells that overcome the normal senescence mechanisms do so by stabilizing telomere length, probably due to the activity of telomerase, a ribonucleoprotein enzyme that synthesizes telomeric repeats. Most human primary tumors contain telomerase, while the cells of most normal tissues lack this activity. A hypothesis gaining prominence is that the activation of telomerase is necessary for the sustained growth of most solid tumors. Since normal hematopoietic stem cells and some of their progeny already express telomerase activity, it is important to consider whether or not telomere shortening and telomerase activity play any role in cancer progression in various forms of leukemia. This review includes a discussion of the utility of telomere length and/or telomerase activity measurements in the diagnosis and prognosis of leukemia as well as the potential value of antitelomerase therapy for the leukemias.

Protein tyrosine phosphorylation has been suggested to play an important role in the clustering of the nicotinic acetylcholine receptor (AChR) at the developing neuromuscular junction. Recent studies have shown that the 43-kDa synapse-associated protein rapsyn induces clustering of the AChR in heterologous expression systems. In this study we examined whether tyrosine phosphorylation is involved in this rapsyn-induced AChR clustering. Rapsyn-induced AChR clusters in fibroblasts contain phosphotyrosine, as detected using immunofluorescent labeling with anti-phosphotyrosine antibodies. No anti-phosphotyrosine staining of rapsyn clusters is seen in the absence of AChR expression, indicating that the AChR is required for the appearance of phosphotyrosine at clusters. In addition, coexpression of rapsyn with the AChR induces the tyrosine phosphorylation of the beta amd delta subunits of the AChR. Surprisingly, mutation of the tyrosine phosphorylation sites in the AChR did not inhibit rapsyn-induced clustering of the AChR and clusters of the mutant AChRs still contained high levels of phosphotyrosine. Experiments with single AChR subunits demonstrate that the alpha subunit of the AChR appears to be necessary and sufficient for codistribution of phosphotyrosine with rapsyn-induced clusters of AChR subunits. Finally, transfection of cells with rapsyn activates cellular protein tyrosine kinase activity, resulting in the tyrosine phosphorylation of several membrane-associated proteins. These results suggest that rapsyn may therefore regulate clustering at least in part by regulating the tyrosine phosphorylation of cellular proteins.
The role of N-glycosylation in the expression, stability, and ligand recognition by the cocaine- and antidepressant-sensitive human norepinephrine transporter (hNET) was assessed in stably and transiently transfected cell lines. The use of hNET-specific antibodies and the membrane-impermeant biotinylating reagent sulfosuccinimidobiotin establishes that treatment of stably transfected LLC-PK1 cells with tunicamycin depletes surface membranes of mature hNET glycoproteins, which is consistent with a failure of less stable, nonglycosylated subunits to replenish surface compartments. To determine whether N-glycosylation plays a direct role in hNET stability, surface expression, and ligand recognition, we mutated the three hNET canonical N-glycosylation sites (hNETN184, 192, 198Q) and transiently expressed the mutant cDNA in parallel with the parental hNET construct in HeLa and COS cells. hNETN184, 192, 198Q protein exhibited increased electrophoretic mobility (approximately 46 kDa), similar to that of enzymatically N-deglycosylated hNET protein, which confirms the use of canonical sites in the second extracellular loop of the transporter. hNETN184, 192, 198Q protein in HeLa and COS extracts was reduced approximately 50% relative to hNET protein in parallel transfections, demonstrated to arise from a reduction in transporter half-life, which is consistent with the proposed role of N-glycosylation in hNET stability. Both HeLa and COS cells transfected with hNETN184, 192, 198Q exhibit a significantly greater reduction in transport activity than can be accounted for by losses in either total or surface NET protein. Furthermore, sensitivity of catecholamine transport to unlabeled substrate and antagonists was unchanged in the mutant, suggesting that residual nonglycosylated surface hNETs execute a key step in the transport cycle after ligand recognition with reduced efficiency.
Profoundly deaf people, who gain no benefit from conventional hearing aids, can receive speech cues by direct electrical stimulation of the cochlear nerve. This is achieved by an electronic device, a cochlear implant, which is surgically inserted into the ear. Here we show physiological results from the isolated sciatic nerve of the toad Xenopus laevis, used to predict the response of the human cochlear nerve to vowels coded by a cochlear implant. These results suggest that standard analogue cochlear implants do not evoke the patterns of neural excitation that are normally associated with acoustic stimulation. Adding noise to the stimulus, however, enhanced distinguishing features of the vowel encoded by the fine time structure of neural discharges. On the basis of these results, and those concerning stochastic resonance, we advocate a cochlear implant coding strategy in which noise is deliberately added to cochlear implant signals.
To determine whether the presenilin 1 (PS1), presenilin 2 (PS2) and amyloid beta-protein precursor (APP) mutations linked to familial Alzheimer's disease (FAD) increase the extracellular concentration of amyloid beta-protein (A beta) ending at A beta 42(43) in vivo, we performed a blinded comparison of plasma A beta levels in carriers of these mutations and controls. A beta 1-42(43) was elevated in plasma from subjects with FAD-linked PS1 (P &lt; 0.0001), PS2N1411 (P = 0.009), APPK670N,M671L (P &lt; 0.0001), and APPV7171 (one subject) mutations. A beta ending at A beta 42(43) was also significantly elevated in fibroblast media from subjects with PS1 (P &lt; 0.0001) or PS2 (P = 0.03) mutations. These findings indicate that the FAD-linked mutations may all cause Alzhelmer's disease by increasing the extracellular concentration of A beta 42(43), thereby fostering cerebral deposition of this highly amyloidogenic peptide.
The role of extraneuronal uptake in terminating the actions of catecholamines has been difficult to evaluate in vivo, largely because of lack of suitable inhibitors. The compound, 1,1'-diisopropyl-2,4'-cyanine iodide or disprocynium24 (D24), is a novel inhibitor of extraneuronal uptake with a high degree of potency in vitro. This study examined the actions of D24 on the inactivation and metabolism of circulating noradrenaline and adrenaline in conscious rats. Animals received i.v. infusions of 3H-labelled noradrenaline and adrenaline, and their extraneuronal O-methylated metabolites, normetanephrine and metanephrine. Plasma concentrations of endogeneous and 3H-labelled catecholamines and metanephrines were measured before and after D24. D24 caused large increases in plasma concentrations of noradrenaline and adrenaline, effects due to both decreases in their plasma clearances and increases in their rates of release into plasma. Plasma concentrations of normetanephrine and metanephrine also increased due to their decreased clearance from plasma. Increased release of normetanephrine into plasma did not contribute to increased plasma concentrations of normetanephrine. In fact, the contribution of extraneuronal O-methylation to noradrenaline clearance decreased substantially after D24. The data indicate that D24 is a potent inhibitor of the extraneuronal catecholamine transporter in vivo and that this process contributes importantly to the removal of circulating catecholamines and their O-methylated amine metabolites. Increased release of noradrenaline into plasma may reflect an increase in the proportion of transmitter that escapes from sites of release into the circulation. However, increased adrenaline release indicates that the drug also causes sympathoadrenal activation.

The discovery of the role of nitric oxide (NO) as a messenger molecule in the central nervous system has radically altered our conception of neuronal communication. Information has been generated at a rapid pace in the last few years regarding the biochemistry, enzymatic activity and molecular characteristics of NO synthase (NOS) and NO synthesis, and the biological consequences of NO production. The full scope of the biological consequences of NO production is unknown but putative cellular targets of NO are rapidly being discovered as well as potential physiological and pathophysiological roles in the nervous system. Roles for NO have been identified in neurotransmitter release, morphogenesis, synaptic plasticity, regulation of gene expression, as well as mediation of inhibitory processes associated with sexual and aggressive behaviour. Inappropriate formation of NO is emerging as an important factor in the neurotoxicity associated with a variety of central nervous system disorders. The current information on the various roles of NO as a neuronal messenger molecule as well as a neurotoxin are reviewed in this article.
Post-mortem studies of the brain of an Alzheimer patient indicate fewer senile plaques in the crests of cortical gyri underneath an omental transposition than in neighboring cortical areas.
We report a 36-year-old man with MELAS in whom a 5-month course of high-dose oral idebenone, a derivative of coenzyme Q10, increased markedly cerebral metabolic ratio of oxygen and oxygen extraction fraction without increased cerebral blood flow with PET. The results indicate that idebenone improves mitochondrial oxidative metabolism in the brain and suggest a therapeutic potential of idebenone for MELAS.
In cerebellar long-term depression (LTD), conjunctive stimulation of parallel and climbing fiber inputs to a Purkinje neuron (PN) results in a selective depression of parallel fiber-PN synaptic strength. A similar phenomenon may be induced in the cultured PN when glutamate pulses and PN depolarization, which mimic the effects of parallel and climbing fibers, respectively, are coapplied. Here, we show that LTD can be induced in two very reduced preparations of the postsynaptic neuron; an acutely dissociated preparation and a perforated outside-out macropatch of dendritic membrane. LTD in these preparations retains properties of that seen in an intact cultured PN in that it is not induced by either glutamate pulses or depolarization alone and requires calcium influx, mGluR activation, and PKC activation for induction. As both of these preparations lack dendritic spine compartments, these findings suggest that the associative nature of LTD induction does not require this level of morphological organization.
The aim of this study was to examine the cellular localization and alterations of apolipoprotein E (apoE) following a transient ischaemic insult using immunohistochemistry. Transient cerebral ischaemia was induced in Wistar rats by occlusion of both carotid arteries with hypotension followed by reperfusion for 4 h (n = 5), 24 h (n = 5) or 72 h (n = 6). In sham-operated animals (n = 9), the carotids were not occluded. In this model, ischaemia for 15 min results in selective neuronal damage in the caudate nucleus and neocortex (24 h after reperfusion) and the hippocampal CA1 pyramidal cells (72 h after reperfusion) while there is minimal damage in other areas such as the CA3 hippocampal region. In sham animals apoE immunoreactivity was confined to astrocytes and their processes. ApoE immunoreactivity was not altered at 4 h post-ischemic reperfusion. At 24 h reperfusion, intense apoE staining of the cytoplasm of astrocytes and neuropil within the caudate and neocortex was observed and at 72 h reperfusion apoE stained neuronal cell bodies within these regions. Within the CA1 region at 24 h reperfusion, there was increased immunoreactivity of the cytoplasm of astrocytes and the neuropil was more intensely stained compared with sham animals. At 72 h reperfusion, intense apoE staining of pyramidal cell bodies and dendrites was consistently observed in the CA1 region of the hippocampus. In contrast, at 72 h reperfusion, apoE staining of astrocytic processes was dramatically reduced in the CA1 region although GFAP staining indicated their preservation. The results demonstrate that following an ischaemic insult apoE is localized to degenerating neurons and their processes. This may indicate an inherent protective response of cells to injury. Alternatively, the results are consistent with the hypothesis that apoE is synthesized and released by astrocytes and taken up by neurons following injury.
Approximately a quarter of a century ago, the disorders originally designated as Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease and Dejerine-Sottas disease were shown by combined clinical, electrophysiological and nerve biopsy studies to be genetically complex. In pathological terms they could be broadly classified into demyelinating neuropathies and axonopathies. Advances in the molecular genetics of these disorders, particularly for those with a demyelinating basis, have recently produced substantial new insights. The identification of mutations in genes for myelin proteins has provided the opportunity for investigating the precise mechanisms of these neuropathies, including the use of spontaneous and genetically engineered animal models.
We reported a dramatic phenomenon of appearance and disappearance of left unilateral spatial neglect for the same single object. In experiment 1, four patients with mild neglect who copied a single flower satisfactorily showed left neglect in copying of the same flower when it was accompanied with some peripheral stimuli. In experiment 2, we included three additional conditions to determine the stimulus component crucial for left neglect of the flower: a flower with a stem and a flower with either right or left peripheral stimuli were also used for copying. Overall results showed that neglect was most evident for the flower with the right peripheral stimuli. On the other hand, the presence of left stimuli provoked less severe neglect of the flower, which was as mild as that in the single flower condition. The results were explained in terms of an attentional mechanism underlying unilateral spatial neglect. When copying the flower with peripheral stimuli on both sides or on the right side, the stimuli on the right side might attract the patient's attention. Consequently, he exhibited left neglect on the central flower. On the other hand, neglect was less evident in the other conditions, since the figures did not include such attention-attracting stimuli on the right side.
Nine patients with possible or probable dementia of the Alzheimer type were tested on nine cognitive tests prior to (two times) and during continuous intravenous administration of five different doses of the muscarinic cholinergic agonist arecoline (1, 4, 16, 28, and 40 mg/day). The present analysis examined whether improvement on cognitive testing for each patient during arecoline treatment was most likely to occur at the same dose for all tests or whether different test scores improved at different doses of arecoline. Results indicated there were significant differences among tests in the dose at which most patients showed improved cognitive performance. These differences may have therapeutic significance, as verbal ability tended to improve at low doses of arecoline, whereas attention and visuospatial ability tended to improve at higher doses of arecoline.
Flavin-containing monooxygenase (FMO), previously reported both from hepatic and extrahepatic tissues, including brain, catalyze the oxidation of certain xenobiotics and drugs that contain a nucleophilic heteroatom. Psychoactive drugs, including the antidepressant imipramine, are substrates for the brain FMO. Since FMO-mediated metabolism of these drugs might contribute to local pharmacodynamic modulation within the human brain, the metabolism of imipramine by human brain FMO was studied in further detail. In the present study, the FMO activity was determined in human brain microsomes by estimating the actual amount of imipramine N-oxide formed. It was then compared with the corresponding activity measured using substrate (imipramine)-stimulated rates of nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate (NADPH) oxidation, which was significantly higher than the activity estimated as the amount of N-oxide assayed using high-pressure liquid chromatography (HPLC). The brain FMO activity was measurable only in the presence of detergents (sodium cholate or Lubrol PX) or in microsomes that were freeze-thawed several times. The activity was inhibited by an antibody to rabbit pulmonary FMO, but an antiserum to the rat liver NADPH cytochrome P-450 reductase had no effect indicating that cytochrome P-450 was not involved in the above metabolic pathway. The optimum pH for N-oxidation of imipramine was found to be 8.5; thermolability experiments indicated that the FMO activity was completely lost only after the incubation of brain microsomes at 45 degrees C for 20 minutes. An FMO purified to apparent homogeneity from a human brain had a molecular weight of 71,000 Da. The purified enzyme cross-reacted with the antibody to rabbit pulmonary FMO and efficiently catalyzed the metabolism of imipramine to its N-oxide. The human brain clearly contains an active FMO system, and it is conceivable that such enzymes are significantly involved in the local metabolism and modulation of pharmacological and/or toxic effects of certain xenobiotics, including psychoactive drugs.
In normal rat lumbar 4 and 5 dorsal root ganglia (DRGs) a few large neurons expressed neurotensin-like immunoreactivity (LI). Twenty hours after crushing the lumbar 4 and 5 dorsal roots or the sciatic nerve, accumulations of neurotensin-LI were seen in many nerve fibers on the ganglionic side of both crushes, indicating a significant centrifugal transport of neurotensin under normal circumstances. A distinct increase in expression of neurotensin (peptide and mRNA) was observed in many large neuron profiles in the ipsilateral lumbar 4 and 5 DRGs two days after unilateral sciatic nerve transection. Two weeks after axotomy the number of neurotensin-positive neuron profiles was reduced and had almost reached normal levels. In the superficial dorsal horn of the lesion side the number of neurotensin immunoreactive fibers in laminae I-II was markedly reduced 7 days after peripheral axotomy. There was no detectable increase in neurotensin-L1 in laminae III-IV of spinal dorsal horn, in the dorsal column nuclei or in the peripheral neuroma (2-28 days after axotomy), suggesting that the amounts of neurotensin transported centrifugally from DRG neurons after axotomy are low. Neurotensin-LI only sometimes colocalized with neuropeptide Y-LI, another peptide known to be upregulated in large DRG neurons. These two peptides may therefore partly be localized in different populations of large DRG neurons. The present results show that, in contrast to the nerve injury-induced general downregulation of neurotensin systems in the superficial dorsal horn and of neurotensin receptor mRNA expression in DRGs as shown in previous studies, axotomy causes upregulation of expression of neurotensin peptide in some large DRG neurons.
The effect of oxidative stress, induced by ascorbate/Fe2+, on the intracellular free Na+ concentration ([Na+]i) of cultured chick retina cells was determined using the fluorescent indicator Na(+)-binding benzofuran isophthalate (SBFI). The resting[Na+]i of retina cells submitted to oxidative stress (15.5 +/- 1.9 mM) was significantly higher than that of control cells (8.9 +/- 0.8 mM). KCl (50 mM) depolarization induced a sustained [Na+]i increase (delta[Na+]i), which was significantly higher in peroxidized cells (8.1 +/- 0.7 mM) than in control cells (4.9 +/- 0.9 mM). The glutamate receptor antagonists, MK-801 and CNQX, reduced more significantly the initial delta[Na+]i induced by K(+)-depolarization under oxidative stress conditions (65% of inhibition), than in control cells (20% of inhibition). Moreover, in the presence of MK-801 and CNQX the increase in the [Na+]i, which was similar in control and peroxidized cells, was followed by a decrease towards a plateau. The Na+ channel blocker, tetrodotoxin (TTX), also reduced the sustained increase of the [Na+]i evoked by 50 mM KCl in both experimental conditions. However, TTX and glutamate receptor antagonists tested together failed to abolish the delta[Na+]i upon K(+)-depolarization, indicating that TTX-resistant Na+ channels were involved in the Na+ influx. The entry of Na+ through these channels contributed mainly to the early phase of the [Na+]i rise upon K(+)-depolarization, whereas the glutamate receptors seem to contribute more significantly to the [Na+]i response for stimulations longer than 30-50 s. The results suggest that an excessive activation of glutamate receptors increases the influx of Na+ and the resting [Na+]i under oxidative stress conditions.
Systemic injection of kainic acid, a rigid analogue of glutamate, induces both the short-term and the long-term expression of activator protein-1 transcription factors. The short-term responses of activator protein-1 factors such as c-fos and fos-related antigens have been well studied. However, the long-term expression of activator protein-1 factor(s) induced by kainic acid is poorly understood. The present study was designed to document the long-term expression (up to seven months) of the fos-related antigens and to map their distributions in the rat brain after systemic treatment with kainic acid. A single dose of kainic acid (8 mg/kg) was injected i.p. into Fischer 344 rats and their epileptic seizure behaviour was monitored. The rats with full limbic seizures were chosen for long-term study. By using immunocytochemistry with an antibody that cross-reacts with all known fos-related antigens, western blot analysis and a gel mobility-shift assay, we have now shown that a 35,000 mol. wt fos-related antigen was induced by kainic acid treatment and expressed at high levels for up to five months. This fos-related antigen still maintains the activator protein-1 DNA binding activity in the rat brain seven months after kainic acid treatment. The fos-related antigens and activator protein-1 binding activity were continuously expressed at high levels throughout the experimental period in the dentate granule cells where mossy fibre collateral sprouting occurred after kainic acid treatment. Our results suggested that long-term expression of fos-related antigen may reflect the pathophysiological changes after kainic acid administration.
The phosphorylation state of tau changes during neurodevelopment and highly phosphorylated tau accumulates in the paired helical filaments found in Alzheimer's disease. In non-neuronal mammalian cells transiently expressed tau is predominantly not phosphorylated at sites known to be phosphorylated in paired helical filaments. However this pattern of phosphorylation is induced by both glycogen synthase kinase-3 alpha and -3 beta and here we show that this results in a change in the intracellular properties of tau. Within cells tau is bound to cytoskeletal structures and causes changes in cellular cytoarchitecture with the induction of thick and stable microtubule bundles. This morphology is lost when tau is co-expressed with glycogen synthase kinase-3 beta; microtubules become less stable and are not bound by tau. Independently of any direct or indirect effects on tau, glycogen synthase kinase-3 beta induces some but relatively slight changes in microtubule organization with the loss of a prominent centrosomal microtubular origin. The cytoskeleton is critical to cell function and within post-mitotic neurons has a highly specialized structure induced, in part, by the neuronal-specific microtubule-associated proteins such as tau. In vitro studies have suggested that the properties of tau are regulated by phosphorylation as highly phosphorylated tau does not promote tubulin polymer assembly. We have demonstrated, in intact cells, that tau highly phosphorylated in the presence of glycogen synthase kinase-3 beta loses the properties of microtubule binding and stabilization, suggesting that regulation of tau phosphorylation by this enzyme might be an important mechanism whereby cytoskeletal function is modulated during neurodevelopment and lost in neurodegeneration.
We have raised antisera against the GABA analogues gamma-vinyl GABA, diaminobutyric acid and gabaculine. These analogues are thought to be substrates for high-affinity GABA transporters. Retinae were exposed to micromolar concentrations of these analogues in the presence or absence of uptake inhibitors and then fixed and processed for immunocytochemistry at the light and electron microscopic levels. Immunolabelling for gamma-vinyl GABA revealed specific labelling of GABAergic amacrine cells and displaced amacrine cells in retinae of rabbits, cats, chickens, fish and a monkey. GABA-containing horizontal cells of cat and monkey retinae failed to exhibit labelling for gamma-vinyl GABA, suggesting that they lacked an uptake system for this molecule. In light-adapted fish, gamma-vinyl GABA was readily detected in H1 horizontal cells; similar labelling was also observed in light-adapted chicken retinae. The pattern of labelling in the fish and chicken retinae was modified by dark adaptation, when labelling was greatly reduced in the horizontal cells, indicating the activity dependence of GABA (analogue) transport. Intraperitoneal injection of gamma-vinyl GABA into rats resulted in its transport across the blood-brain barrier and subsequent uptake into populations of GABAergic neurons. The other analogues investigated in this study exhibited different patterns of transport; gabaculine was taken up into glial cells, whilst diaminobutyric acid was taken up into neurons, glial cells and retinal pigment epithelia. Thus, these analogues are probably substrates for different GABA transporters. We conclude that immunocytochemical detection of the high-affinity uptake of gamma-vinyl GABA permits the identification of GABAergic neurons which are actively transporting GABA, and suggest that this novel methodology will be a useful tool in rapidly assessing the recent activity of GABAergic neurons at the cellular level.
We have previously shown that the oncogene product p21 Ras is essential for the survival and neurite outgrowth-promoting activity of nerve growth factor on cultured chick embryonic sensory, but not sympathetic neurons. In order to extend our observations to the human system and to non-neuronal cells, we introduced the oncogenic form of p21 Ras into the cytoplasm of three different types of cultured human embryonic neural crest derivatives (8th-11th gestational week): dorsal root ganglion neurons, sympathetic neurons, and adrenal chromaffin cells. These cells are dependent on nerve growth factor for survival and/or fibre outgrowth in vitro. In dorsal root ganglion neurons, p21 Ras promoted survival and fibre outgrowth which was quantitatively and qualitatively comparable to the nerve growth factor effect (84% vs. 95%, control 18%). Sympathetic neurons showed a similar effect, albeit with a higher background survival (91% vs. 93%, control 58%). On chromaffin cells, which respond to nerve growth factor with pronounced fibre outgrowth in culture, the effect of p21 Ras was again comparable to that of nerve growth factor (35% vs. 30%, control 5%). The survival and fibre outgrowth-promoting effects of p21 Ras on human embryonic dorsal root ganglion neurons, sympathetic neurons and chromaffin cells suggest an involvement of p21 Ras in the intracellular signal transduction of nerve growth factor in human neural crest-derived cell populations.
Microglia, the resident macrophages of the brain, are transformed from a quiescent into an activated phenotype in a number of pathological conditions. The signalling mechanisms which control such transformations are not yet understood. In the present study, we have characterized fast electrophysiological responses in cultured microglia, induced by two putative signalling substances, complement 5a (C5a), a chemotactic agent for macrophages and microglia, and epidermal growth factor, the receptor of which is up-regulated during pathological conditions in the brain. Both factors transiently activate an outwardly rectifying K+ conductance, while the membrane of the unstimulated microglial cell is dominated by an inwardly rectifying K+ conductance. The C5a-stimulated current developed within about 20s and decayed within a slightly slower time course. It was activated by depolarlizing voltage steps positive to the resting membrane potential of about -70 mV, and neither inactivated nor showed a delayed activation following voltage steps. The epidermal growth factor-stimulated current showed similar characteristics. When G-proteins were specifically blocked, the K+ conductance could no longer be activated by C5a or epidermal growth factor, suggesting that for both agonists an inhibitory G-protein is involved in the intracellular signalling cascade. We tested if the induction of the K+ conductance is causally linked to other C5a-induced cellular responses, like transient cytosolic Ca2+ elevation and mobility. The K+ conductance was not activated when a Ca2+ transient was induced by thapsigargin, nor did a blockade of the C5a-induced K+ conductance by K+ channel blockers affect the motility response. This implies that after activation of the C5a receptor and the G-protein, the K+ conductance activation, the Ca2+ mobilization and the motility response are governed by independent intracellular pathways, and that the K+ conductance increase must serve other functions than the control of motility.
Microglial cells respond to most pathological events by rapid transformation from a quiescent to an activated phenotype characterized by increased cytotoxicity and motile activity. To investigate the regulation of microglial motility by different inflammatory mediators, we studied cultured murine microglia by time-lapse video microscopy and a computer-based motility assay. Microglial cells exhibited a high resting motility. The acute application of complement 5a (C5a) immediately induced intense ruffling of microglial membranes followed by lamellipodia extension within few seconds, while formyl-Met-Leu-Phe-OH, bacterial endotoxin (lipopolysaccharide) or inflammatory cytokines did not increase motility. This process was accompanied by a rapid rearrangement of the actin cytoskeleton as demonstrated by labelling with fluorescein isothiocyanate-phalloidin and could be inhibited by cytochalasin B. A GTP-binding protein was involved in the signal cascade, since pertussis toxin inhibited motility and actin assembly in response to C5a. Chemotactic migration in a gradient of C5a was also completely blocked by pertussis toxin and cytochalasin B. The C5a-induced motility reaction was accompanied by an increase in intracellular calcium ([Ca2+]i) as measured by a Fluo-3 based imaging system. Ca2+ transients were, however, not a prerequisite for triggering the increase in motility; motility could be repeatedly evoked by C5a in nominally Ca(2+)-free solution, while Ca2+ signals occurred only upon the first stimulation. Moreover, conditions mimicking intracellular Ca2+ transients, like incubation with thapsigargin or Ca2+ ionophore A23187, were not able to induce any motility reaction, suggesting that Ca2+ transients are not necessary for, but are associated with, microglial motility. Motile activity was shown to be restricted to a defined concentration range of [Ca2+]i as revealed by lowering [Ca2+]i with BAPTA-AM or increasing [Ca2+]i with A23187. Since complement factors are released at pathological sites, this signal cascade could serve to increase motility and to direct microglial cells to the lesioned or damaged area by means of a G-protein-dependent pathway and via the rearrangement of the actin cytoskeleton.
During transient hypoxic episodes, CNS nerve cells and their axons undergo structural and functional damage. However, additional injury occurs as a result of subsequent tissue reperfusion. To examine mechanisms of this secondary injury, we have characterized the temporal patterns of element (e.g. Na, K, Ca) and water deregulation in rat optic nerve myelinated axons and glia during in vitro exposure to post-anoxia reoxygenation. Isolated nerves were exposed to 1 h of anoxia followed by varying periods of reoxygenation (20, 40, 60 and 180 min). Changes in subcellular distribution of elements and water were determined using electron probe X-ray microanalysis. In response to reoxygenation, the majority of large and medium axons exhibited a progressive worsening of anoxia-induced elemental deregulation. Axoplasmic Na, Cl and Ca increased substantially while K concentrations remained at or slightly below anoxic levels. Respective mitochondria expressed similar elemental changes except that Ca levels increased dramatically. A limited number of large and medium axons and their mitochondria showed initial but transient improvements in elemental composition. In contrast, approximately 50% of small axons initiated early improvements in transmembrane elemental distribution that continued to advance throughout the reoxygenation period. Remaining axons of this group displayed severe elemental derangement similar to that of larger fibers. The elemental composition of reoxygenated glial cells and myelin remained comparable to that reported after 60 min of anoxia. These results indicate that while larger axons express eventual severe elemental deregulation in spite of reoxygenation, many small axons appear capable of re-establishing near-normal transmembrane ion gradients. Results of the present study suggest reoxygenation/reperfusion injury of CNS axons is mediated by exacerbation of Ca2+ entry and the generalized ion deregulation initiated during anoxic or ischemic episodes. These findings constitute basic information regarding damage induced by post-anoxia reoxygenation and could, therefore, contribute toward understanding the mechanism of reperfusion injury following hypoxic or ischemic episodes in CNS white matter. Furthermore, deciphering the route of Ca2+ influx during reoxygenation/reperfusion might provide a basis for rational design of effective pharmacotherapies.
We have investigated alterations in the nerve supply to the iris of aged rats and the role of endogenous nerve growth factor in these changes. The overall density of nerve fibres, and the density of calcitonin gene-related peptide containing sensory nerves, were decreased by over 20% on the aged iris, as measured by computerized image analysis on immunostained preparations, while the density of sympathetic innervation was maintained. Whilst the majority of nerves supplying the iris (sympathetic, sensory and parasympathetic) are known to respond to exogenous nerve growth factor during development and in adulthood, the role of endogenous, target-derived nerve growth factor in nerve maintenance in maturity and old age awaits confirmation. Our results showed that localized treatment with anti-nerve growth factor of iridial nerve terminals did not affect sympathetic or sensory neurons in young rats, but caused a dramatic reduction of sympathetic nerve density on irides of old rats. The effect of anti-nerve growth factor treatment on the sensory innervation of old irides was less obvious. We conclude that aged sympathetic nerves are more susceptible to nerve growth factor deprivation than young ones, or than young or aged sensory neurons, perhaps as a result of reduced responsiveness to nerve growth factor with age. Since sympathetic innervation is maintained, whilst sensory innervation is decreased in the aged iris, age-related changes in innervation are unlikely to be due to altered availability of endogenous nerve growth factor.
Cytosolic free calcium concentration ([Ca2+]c) was recorded from acutely isolated mouse dorsal root ganglion neurons loaded with Ca(2+)-indicator indo-1. The initiation of intracellular Ca2+ release by low (1-5 mM) caffeine concentrations failed to completely empty the caffeine-sensitive stores; subsequent challenge with higher doses of caffeine produced an additional [Ca2+]c elevation. This indicates a gradual Ca2+ release from caffeine-sensitive stores. The sensitivity of Ca2+ stores to caffeine was strongly influenced by endoplasmic reticulum luminal Ca2+ concentration ([Ca2+]i) as an increase in [Ca2+]i produced by a conditioning depolarization-induced Ca2+ entry, caused a several fold decrease of caffeine EC50. By elevating [Ca2+]c a threshold concentration (about 350 nM) can be reached, at which low doses of caffeine (2-5 mM) produced a regenerative Ca2+ release, that depletes the Ca2+ stores almost completely, indicating that all-or-nothing Ca(2+)-induced Ca2+ release can be generated in nerve cells.
Pituitary adenylate cyclase activating peptide (PACAP) is a novel vasoactive intestinal polypeptide-like peptide which is present in neuronal elements of a number of peripheral organs. PACAP occurs in two forms, PACAP-27 and the C-terminally extended PACAP-38, both derived from the same precursor which in addition gives rise to a structurally-related peptide, PACAP-related peptide. Using specific radioimmunoassays for PACAP-38, PACAP-27 and PACAP-related peptide we found that the three PACAP-precursor-derived peptides were present in tissue extracts from all regions of the rat female genital tract. PACAP-38 was the dominating peptide with the highest concentrations in the Fallopian tube and the ovary. Upon reverse phase high pressure liquid chromatography the immunoreactive material was found to co-elute with synthetic PACAP-38, PACAP-27 and PACAP-related peptide, respectively. By immunohistochemistry, PACAP was shown to be located in varicose nerve fibres associated with blood vessels, smooth muscle and epithelial cells. Within the local paracervical ganglion PACAP-immunoreactive fibres ramified often forming varicose, pericellular plexuses around non-PACAP-positive cell bodies. Also bundles of PACAP-immunoreactive fibres were transversing the ganglion. In the paracervical ganglion of normal rat only a few neuronal cell bodies showed immunostaining for PACAP, but after local colchichine-treatment a moderate number of positive perikarya appeared. The synthesis of PACAP in neurons of the paracervical ganglia was confirmed by in situ hybridization histochemistry with a digoxigenin-labelled cRNA probe. Double immunostaining for PACAP and vasoactive intestinal polypeptide disclosed a partial co-existence of the two peptides in nerve fibres of all tubular organs in the rat female genital tract and in cell bodies and nerve fibres in the paracervical ganglion. After neonatal capsaicin treatment the concentration of immunoreactive PACAP-38 as well as the number and intensity of PACAP-positive nerve fibres were reduced while vasoactive intestinal polypeptide immunoreactivity was unaffected. In conclusion, PACAP-immunoreactive nerve fibres have been demonstrated in all regions of the rat female genital tract associated with blood vessels, smooth musculature and epithelium. In some fibres, which seem to originate in the local paracervical ganglia, PACAP was co-localized with vasoactive intestinal polypeptide. PACAP released from these fibres could alone or in concert with vasoactive intestinal polypeptide play a role in neuroregulation of female reproductive organs acting directly on the musculature and vasculature. Other PACAP-containing fibres are sensory in nature, and some of these might influence ganglionic neurotransmission in the local paracervical ganglia.
Conventional intracellular electrophysiological recordings were made from 502 myenteric neurons of the rat descending colon. Myenteric neurons could be classified into three groups on the basis of distinct electrophysiological properties. The first group of neurons (51% of all neurons) fired tetrodotoxin-sensitive action potentials in response to direct somal depolarization and the majority (98%) of this group generated fast cholinergic excitatory synaptic potentials in response to focal stimulation and were therefore designated S/Type 1 neurons. The second group (40%) of neurons fired tetrodotoxin-insensitive action potentials which were followed by long-lasting membrane afterhyperpolarizations, hence were termed AH neurons. These neurons did not receive fast cholinergic synaptic inputs but ionophoretic application of acetylcholine induced rapid nicotinic cholinoceptor-mediated depolarizations. The final group of neurons (9%), named Type 3 neurons, received fast cholinergic synaptic inputs but could never be made to fire action potentials. Rundown in amplitude of successive fast excitatory synaptic potentials evoked by a short train of presynaptic nerve stimuli was observed in only a small proportion of neurons (8/37; 22%) with the majority of neurons (29/37; 78%) showing no such decrease in amplitude, even at frequencies of stimulation as high as 10 Hz. Superfusion of 5-hydroxytryptamine could induce both an inhibition and a facilitation of cholinergic fast synaptic transmission. Evidence was adduced that these presynaptic inhibitory and facilitatory actions appeared to be mediated via 5-hydroxytryptamine 1A and 5-hydroxytryptamine 4 receptors, respectively. Muscarinic slow excitatory synaptic potentials were not detected (9/9 neurons tested) and non-cholinergic slow excitatory synaptic potentials following repetitive focal presynaptic nerve stimulation were observed in only 39/502 (8%) of all neurons. In those neurons in which a demonstrable change in membrane input resistance was detectable, slow excitatory potentials were accompanied by an increased input resistance. In addition, in a small subset (4%) of S/Type 1 neurons, slow membrane hyperpolarizations accompanied by an increased membrane input resistance were observed following tetanic presynaptic nerve stimulation. Superfusion of 5-hydroxytryptamine induced both membrane depolarizations and hyperpolarizations. Membrane depolarizations were observed in 40% of all neuronal types (34% of S/Type 1 neurons, 58% of AH neurons and 11% of Type 3 neurons) and were accompanied by an increased membrane input resistance and occasionally, in S/Type 1 and AH neurons, by anodal break excitation or spontaneous action potential firing. Membrane hyperpolarizations were observed in S/Type 1 neurons (5%) only and were accompanied, unexpectedly, by an increased membrane input resistance. In those neurons that responded both to application of 5-hydroxytryptamine and tetanic presynaptic nerve stimulation, 5-hydroxytryptamine always mimicked the slow synaptic response indicating that 5-hydroxytryptamine may function as a slow synaptic mediator in some myenteric neurons. Myenteric neurons identified by intracellular injection of the neuronal marker Neurobiotin TM were found to conform to the morphological classification schemes proposed for myenteric neurons of the guinea-pig and porcine intestine, that is, Dogiel Types I and II and Stach Type IV neurons were present. Simultaneous electrophysiological recording and intracellular staining techniques revealed that a correlation existed between the electrophysiological and morphological properties of myenteric neurons of the rat colon, with electrophysiological classified S/Type 1 neurons having Dogiel Type I morphologies (95/108 neurons; 88%) and electrophysiological classified AH neurons having Dogiel Type II morphologies (87/94 neurons; 93%)...
Neurons within the myenteric plexus of the guinea-pig ileum were impaled using conventional intracellular electrodes. Points of stimulation within the surrounding ganglia and connectives which gave rise to fast excitatory synaptic potentials were mapped using a movable monopolar stimulating electrode. Cells were then injected with the intracellular marker, biocytin, and processed for multiple label immunohistochemistry to reveal their morphologies, chemical contents and, hence, their functional classes. Of 65 neurons belonging to the S electrophysiological class, 53 received fast excitatory synaptic inputs from stimulation at sites at least 2 mm away in a directly circumferential direction. These inputs almost certainly arise from stimulation of the circumferentially-directed axons of the Dogiel type II/AH-neurons, which are thought to be intrinsic sensory neurons. The majority of cells which projected anally and were immunoreactive for nitric oxide synthase (19/25), all neurons which ramified in the tertiary plexus and were identified as longitudinal muscle motor neurons (6/6) and all neurons identified as excitatory motor neurons innervating the circular muscle (12/12) received inputs from these circumferentially-directed pathways. However only one of six descending filamentous interneurons impaled received such inputs, suggesting they may be differentially innervated. The conduction velocities of circumferentially-directed axons giving rise to fast excitatory post synaptic potentials were estimated to be 0.41 +/- 0.10 m/s (mean +/- standard deviation, n = 21). The conduction velocities estimated for longitudinally-directed pathways were 0.55 +/- 0.25 m/s (n = 29). Thus, the majority of myenteric neurons receive fast excitatory synaptic input from putative intrinsic sensory neurons which project circumferentially around the intestine.
Kinetic properties of synaptic depression were analysed for excitatory postsynaptic potentials in neuron number 3 in the right pallial ganglion of Helix pomatia. It was observed that long-term depression did not only suppress the amplitudes of excitatory postsynaptic potentials but also changed the kinetics of short-term depression. Early during each experiment (before the induction of long-term depression), the degree of short-term depression was inversely related to the frequency of excitatory postsynaptic potentials (contrary to most earlier reports). Later in the experiments, after the formation of long-term depression induced by four spaced excitatory postsynaptic potential series, the inverse frequency dependency had changed into a direct proportionality between short-term depression and frequency. This change was associated with, and could be at least partially explained by, an alternation of recovery from short-term depression induced by long-term depression: early in experiments, recovery showed a transient phase of large recovery between excitatory postsynaptic potentials separated by 3 to 45 s. After the induction of long-term depression, this large and transient recovery was absent. The relationship between the amount of long-term depression formed and the number of preceding excitatory postsynaptic potentials inducing the depression was analysed, and it was observed that a significant long-term depression was present 10 min after only six excitatory postsynaptic potentials. The results point towards the implication that many previous investigations of the kinetics of short-term depression observed in experiments involving a high number of excitatory postsynaptic potentials have been performed under the influence of variable degrees of long-term depression. Since long-term depression (at least in Helix) induced substantial alterations of the kinetic properties of short-term depression, such changes may have significantly influenced the conclusions of earlier reports.
The time course of the formation of synaptic long-term depression was analysed in neurons of Helix pomatia. Polysynaptic excitatory postsynaptic potentials were evoked in identified neurons by stimulation of the right pallial nerve. First, synaptic depression was observed during four consecutive series of excitatory postsynaptic potentials spaced by either 2, 10 or 60 min in the presence and absence of compounds inhibiting protein synthesis. Inhibition of RNA translation (but not of transcription) reduced the increasing depression of series spaced by 10 and 60 min but not by 2 min. This demonstration of translation-dependent depression present only 10 min after a previous excitatory postsynaptic potential series was analysed further by observations of the time course of excitatory postsynaptic potential recovery from short-term depression in experiments with intact versus inhibited protein synthesis. When synthesis was inhibited, recovery occurred along a double-exponential trajectory. However, when synthesis was intact, the exponential recovery was interrupted discontinuously 6-10 min after a series of excitatory postsynaptic potentials by the onset of a spontaneous and increasing depression lasting for at least 12 h. Puromycin, anisomycin and actinomycin D were used as inhibitors not affecting the short-term properties of excitatory postsynaptic potentials. Experiments with camptothecin, on the other hand, revealed that this inhibitor enhanced excitatory postsynaptic potential amplitudes and reduced their short-term depression. It is concluded that long-term depression, depending upon de novo protein synthesis, was initiated only 10 min after a series of excitatory postsynaptic potentials. Evidence was obtained indicating that this early initiated protein synthesis circumvented the transcription processes within the cell nuclei.
Recent findings suggest that carotid chemoreceptor input into the ventral medullary surface intermediate area during hypoxia is inhibitory (Gozal et al., (1994) Neurosci. Lett. 178, 73-76. However, systemic hypoxia is a complex stimulus, and effects of carotid chemoreceptor stimulation per se on intermediate ventral medullary surface neuronal activity are difficult to isolate. Therefore, we studied neural activation of the intermediate ventral medullary surface during peripheral chemoreceptor stimulation by intravenous sodium cyanide using optical procedures in seven pentobarbital-anesthetized cats. Control recordings were also acquired in the suprasylvian cortex of three cats. Images of reflected 660 nm light were collected at l/s with a charge-coupled device camera, triggered by the cardiac R wave, after 0.0, 0.5, 2, 5, 10, 20 and 40 micrograms/kg i.v. sodium cyanide administration before and following carotid sinus denervation. Sodium cyanide doses &gt; 5 micrograms/kg significantly increased ventilation, an effect which was eliminated following carotid sinus denervation. A pronounced, dose-dependent activity decrease within the intermediate ventral medullary surface occurred within seconds of sodium cyanide administration, with subsequent return to baseline. Carotid sinus denervation eliminated rapid-onset neural responses to all sodium cyanide doses. However, at the 40 micrograms/kg dose, a smaller, slower onset (25 s), activity decrease occurred both pre- and postdenervation. In the neocortex, the sodium cyanide-induced fast responses were absent. Intravenous cyanide, acting via a carotid sinus nerve pathway, results in a dose-dependent decrease in neural activity within the intermediate ventral medullary surface of cats. High-dose sodium cyanide also appears to decrease intermediate ventral medullary surface neural activity directly.
Parkinson's disease is characterized by the loss of dopaminergic neurons in the substantia nigra and, to a lesser extent, the ventral tegmental area and catecholaminergic cell group A8. However, among these dopaminergic neurons, those expressing the calcium buffering protein calbindin are selectively preserved, suggesting that a rise in intracellular calcium concentrations may be involved in the cascade of events leading to nerve cell death in Parkinson's disease. We therefore analysed immunohistochemically the expression of the calcium-dependent protease calpain II (m-calpain) in the mesencephalon of patients with Parkinson's disease, progressive supranuclear palsy or striatonigral degeneration, where nigral dopaminergic neurons degenerate, and matched controls without nigral involvement. Calpain immunoreactivity was found in fibers and neuronal perikarya in the substantia nigra, the ventral tegmental area, catecholaminergic cell group A8 and the locus coeruleus. In patients with Parkinson's disease but not with the other neurodegenerative disorders, m-calpain immunoreactivity was detected in fibers with an abnormal morphology and in Lewy bodies. Sequential double staining revealed that most of these m-calpain-positive fibers and neuronal perikarya co-expressed tyrosine hydroxylase, indicating that most m-calpain neurons are catecholaminergic. Quantitative analysis of m-calpain staining in the substantia nigra and locus coeruleus revealed an increased density of fibers and neuronal perikarya in parkinsonian patients in both structures. These data suggest that increased calcium concentrations may be associated with nerve cell death in Parkinson's disease.
Patients with complex partial seizures of temporal lobe origin may experience behavioural disorders like depressive, anxiety-related or schizophrenic-like symptoms between seizures, i.e. interictally. The neural mechanisms underlying these enduring interictal disorders remain to be investigated. The aim of the present study was to examine the behavioural consequences of kindling of the basolateral nuclei of the amygdala, an animal model of limbic complex partial seizures. Animals having experienced 15 stage 5 seizures were compared to non-kindled controls in different behavioural tests performed at least seven days after the last seizure. Kindled animals showed a significant reduction of exploration of open arms in the elevated plus-maze test. In the social interactions test, they showed a decrease of non-social behaviour and an increase of immobility. No modifications were observed in kindled animals when tested in the open field, the sucrose preference or the forced swimming test. The reduction of open arm exploration in the elevated plus-maze was reversed by a pretreatment with chlordiazepoxide (2 mg/kg i.p.), a benzodiazepine anxiolytic. Finally, a similar reduction of open arm exploration was observed when animals were kindled only until a stage 3 seizure occurred. These data, along with previous studies, suggest that kindling of the amygdala has anxiogenic consequences and provide an animal model to study the neuroplasticity phenomena underlying enduring interictal disorders in humans.
Two types of hippocampal corticosteroid receptors play an important role in regulating the secretion of corticosterone: type I receptors are thought to regulate both the basal and stress induced release of corticosterone whereas type II receptors seem to be involved only in the stress response. Although these receptors are known to be regulated by circulating levels of corticosterone, there is also evidence for a direct neural control independent of hormonal influences. Furthermore, several studies suggest differential regulation of type I and type II corticosteroid receptors, with greater hormonal control of type II and greater neural control of type I. In order to investigate this theory of differential regulation of type I and type II corticosteroid receptors, we studied the effect of chronic treatment with either vehicle or the alpha 1 noradrenergic antagonist prazosin (0.5 mg/kg, i.p), on hippocampal corticosteroid receptors. Rats in one group had intact adrenal glands, whereas rats in a second group were adrenalectomized, their plasma corticosterone levels being maintained in the physiological range by implantation of corticosterone pellets. Thus, in the first group, the effects of drug-induced changes in both noradrenergic transmission and corticosterone secretion on corticosteroid receptors were investigated, whereas in the second group, the influence of altered noradrenergic transmission was effectively isolated. The results of this experiment show that, in comparison to the vehicle treatment, chronic treatment with the alpha 1 receptor antagonist prazosin decreased the number of type I corticosteroid receptors in adrenalectomized animals with corticosterone substitutive therapy. This effect on type I was not evident in adrenal-intact animals. In contrast, the prazosin treatment reduced the number of type II corticosteroid receptors in adrenal-intact animals, but not in adrenalectomized animals with corticosterone substitutive therapy. It has also been demonstrated here that, in the adrenal-intact animals, chronic prazosin induces hypersecretion of corticosterone after stress, which may account for the reduction of type II corticosteroid receptors noted in this group. Taken together, these results support the theory that type I and type II are differentially regulated: type I receptors can be regulated by noradrenaline independently of corticosterone, whereas type II receptors seem to be adjusted by circulating levels of corticosterone. These results may also suggest possible pharmacotherapies of hypothalamo-pituitary-adrenal axis dysregulation, such as that occurring during depression, Alzheimer's disease and Cushing syndrome, by targeting type I corticosteroid receptors.
The compound 619C89 [4-amino-2-(4-methyl-1-piperazinyl)-5-(2,3,5-tricholorophenyl)-pyr imidine] is an effective neuroprotective agent in in vivo models of cerebral ischaemia. It has been suggested to act by inhibiting voltage-gated Na+ channels. To test this hypothesis, the action of 619C89 on recombinant rat brain type IIA Na+ channels expressed in Chinese hamster ovary cells and on native Na+ channels in acutely dissociated rat hippocampal neurons has been studied using whole-cell voltage-clamp recording techniques. In the cell line expressing type IIA Na+ channels, 619C89 caused a reversible inhibition of Na+ currents in a concentration- and voltage-dependent manner. A half-maximal inhibitory concentration (IC50) of approximately 50 microM was obtained at a holding potential of -90 mV whereas, with a conditioning prepulse to -60 mV for 30 s, the IC50 was reduced to 8 microM. Furthermore, the inhibition was markedly enhanced by a use-dependent action, which was dependent not only on the frequency of stimulation, but also on the duration (3.5-40 ms) of the pulses. Trains (10-50 Hz) of up to 60 depolarizing pulses of 0.7 ms duration did not evoke any use-dependent inhibition in the presence of 619C89, suggesting that this compound is not an open channel blocker. The voltage- and use-dependent inhibition by 619C89 was also observed on native Na+ channels in hippocampal neurons. 619C89 (10 microM) produced a small hyperpolarizing shift in the fast inactivation curve and a substantial (13 mV) hyperpolarizing shift in slow inactivation. The compound dramatically delayed the recovery from inactivation without affecting the development of inactivation. Moreover, 619C89 has no effect on the shape of the current-voltage relationship or on the voltage activation curve. These data indicate that 619C89 interacts selectively with the inactivated state of the Na+ channel with an estimated affinity of 3 microM. This primary action of 619C89 may underlie its neuroprotective effects.
In the present study we characterized the cholecystokinin receptor regulation of (i) the dopamine D2 agonist binding sites in striatal sections including the nucleus accumbens and (ii) GABA and dopamine release in the central part of the rat nucleus accumbens, by combining the in vitro filter wipe-off and the in vivo microdialysis techniques. In the binding study we demonstrate that sulphated cholecystokinin octapeptide (1 nM) increased (219 +/- 30%) the KD value of the D2 agonist [3H]N-propylnorapomorphine binding sites in sections from the striatum including the accumbens. This effect was counteracted by the cholecystokinin-B antagonist PD134308 (50 nM). In a parallel study using microdialysis in the central nucleus accumbens, we found that local perfusion with sulphated cholecystokinin octapeptide (1 microM) induced an increase in GABA (135 +/- 7%) and dopamine (146 +/- 8%) release which was unaffected by the cholecystokinin-A antagonist L-364,718 (10 nM). In contrast, when the cholecystokinin-B antagonist PD134308 (10 nM) was co-perfused with the peptide it prevented the increase in dopamine and decreased GABA release (-24 +/- 2%). This reduction was counteracted by the addition to the perfusate medium of the cholecystokinin-A antagonist or the cholinergic muscarinic M2 receptor antagonist AF-DX 116 (0.1 microM). Taken together, these data demonstrate that the facilitation by sulphated cholecystokinin octapeptide of GABA and dopamine release in the central accumbens probably reflects an inhibitory effect of the peptide on both pre- and postsynaptic D2 receptors, mediated via cholecystokinin-B receptor activation. In addition, for the first time we provide evidence for a differential cholecystokinin-A and -B receptor-mediated regulation of GABA transmission in the central accumbens, where the cholecystokinin-B receptor exerts a dominant excitatory influence while the cholecystokinin-A receptor mediates an inhibition of GABA release via a local muscarinic M2 receptor.
The effects of septide (a short substance P C-terminal analogue) and of the neurokinin-1 receptor agonist [Pro9]substance P on the N-methyl-D-aspartate (50 microM)-evoked release of [3H]dopamine (continuously synthesized from [3H]tyrosine) were investigated in the absence or the presence of the selective neurokinin-1 receptor antagonist RP 67580 in selected striosome- and matrix-enriched areas of the rat striatum. Experiments were performed in vitro using a microsuperfusion procedure described previously. At a concentration of 0.1 microM, septide and [Pro9]substance P stimulated the spontaneous release of [3H]dopamine in striosome-enriched areas similarly. However, in this compartment, these peptides induced larger and opposite effects on the N-methyl-D-aspartate (50 microM)-evoked release of [3H]dopamine (estimated in the absence of magnesium). Indeed, septide markedly enhanced the N-methyl-D-aspartate response, while [Pro9]substance P largely reduced the N-methyl-D-aspartate-evoked release of [3H]dopamine. Septide also enhanced the N-methyl-D-aspartate response in the matrix, but [Pro9]substance P was without effect. When used alone, at 0.1 or 1 microM, RP 67580 reduced by about 33% the N-methyl-D-aspartate-evoked release of [3H]dopamine in striosome-enriched areas. In contrast, in the matrix, the N-methyl-D-aspartate response was enhanced in the presence of a low concentration of the antagonist, while the higher concentration was ineffective. In striosomes, the reducing effect of [Pro9]substance P and the enhancing action of septide on the N-methyl-D-aspartate response were respectively blocked in the presence of low and high concentrations of RP 67580, while the stimulatory effect of septide on the N-methyl-D-aspartate response in the matrix was prevented with both concentrations of the neurokinin-1 receptor antagonist. Finally, the co-application of [Pro9]substance P (0.1 microM) with septide (0.1 microM) abolished the enhancing effect of septide on the N-methyl-D-aspartate-evoked release of [3H]dopamine in both striatal compartments. Altogether, these results suggest that substance P and eventually one of its metabolites, substance P(6-11) or another endogenous tachykinin released under the action of N-methyl-D-aspartate, contribute to the regulation of [3H]dopamine release in both striatal compartments. They also extend previous observations which allowed us to demonstrate that the local circuits contributing to the presynaptic regulation of [3H]dopamine release differ in striosome- and matrix-enriched areas. Furthermore, in agreement with observations made in some peripheral tissues, the present results support the existence of &quot;septide-sensitive&quot; tachykinin receptors in the rat striatum or alternatively of septide sensitive sites on tachykinin neurokinin-1 receptors distinct from those sensitive to neurokinin-1 receptor agonists, coupled to distinct transducing systems, and thus leading to biological responses which differ from those evoked by neurokinin-1 receptor agonists.
The present study investigated whether the modulatory effects of substance P and substance P fragments on striatal dopamine release involve a cholinergic link. Rat striatal slices were incubated with substance P, substance P(1-4), substance P(1-7), substance P(5-11) and substance P(8-11) in the absence or presence of various agents which modify cholinergic transmissions, and endogenous dopamine outflow was measured using high-performance liquid chromatography. The incubation of striatal slices with substance P and its N- and C-terminal fragments (1 nM) induced a significant overflow of endogenous dopamine. Neostigmine (150 nM) potentiated the effects of substance P and its fragments, whereas the incubation with hemicholinium-3 (50 microM) abolished the effects of the peptides on dopamine outflow. The acetylcholinesterase inhibitor and the inhibitor of choline uptake did not have intrinsic effects on dopamine outflow. The muscarinic antagonist atropine (1 microM) reversed completely the effects of substance P and its fragments, whereas the nicotinic antagonists dihydro-beta-erythroidine (0.5 microM) and pempidine (10 microM) were devoid of effects. None of the cholinergic antagonists modified dopamine outflow. The results suggest that substance P and several N- and C-terminal substance P fragments activate cholinergic neurons in striatal slices. The released acetylcholine induces an increased dopamine outflow, mediated by muscarinic receptors. These observations represent additional evidence which supports the functional interactions between substance P, acetylcholine and dopamine in the striatum. Furthermore, they show that substance P fragments may exert neuromodulatory effects through mechanisms similar to those underlying the effects of the parent peptide.
The proto-oncogene bcl-2 and its family members, bcl-x and bax are recognized as major regulators of cell death and survival. Although Bcl-2 and Bcl-x are expressed in brain, little is known how they are regulated in neurons. Here we have studied the expression of bcl-2, bcl-xL and bax mRNA in rat cerebellar granule neurons cultured under conditions which influence neuron survival. Insulin-like growth factor-1 and brain-derived neurotrophic factor supported the survival of these neurons, but affected neither the expression of bcl-2, bcl-xL nor bax mRNA. In contrast, bcl-2 and bcl-xL mRNAs were up-regulated in cerebellar granule neurons plated at high density exhibiting an increased neuronal survival. Western blots showed that cell density also increased Bcl-2 protein level. However, conditioned medium from dense cultures did not affect the level of bcl-2 mRNA nor survival of the neurons. This suggests that cell density promotes survival and regulates Bcl-2 expression in cerebellar granule neurons through a signaling pathway different from known neurotrophic factors.
During development, many neurons in the dorsal root ganglia require neurotrophin-3 for survival. However, it is not known precisely which subpopulations of sensory neurons, other than the proprioceptive afferents, are neurotrophin-3 dependent in vivo. In this study, using a battery of neurochemical markers that label different subpopulations of dorsal root ganglion neurons, we found a widespread, about 60-65% loss of cells in most subpopulations in neurotrophin-3 deficient mice. Intermediate losses were found in the heterozygous mutant mice consistent with a gene dosage effect. In agreement with this, the cell size distribution between the homozygous mutant and wild type mice was virtually identical. The loss of small neurons containing calcitonin gene-related peptide, substance P and thiamine monophosphatase activity suggests that many unmyelinated primary afferents are also lost in the mutant animals. The fact that many different sensory neuron subpopulations are lost to the same extent in neurotrophin-3 deficient mice is consistent with the proposed early role of neurotrophin-3 during neurogenesis. Interestingly, calretinin immunoreactive neurons, which contribute a minor subpopulation, were not affected suggesting that neurotrophin-3 independent regulation of neurogenesis occurs in addition to prominent neurotrophin-3 dependent mechanisms.
The AMPA receptors are glutamate-gated ion channels mediating synaptic transmission at the majority of excitatory synapses in the mammalian CNS. They are composed of four subunits (GluR1-4) which exist in two alternatively spliced variants (flip and flop) and are generally considered to form pentameric receptors. The transmembrane structure of the receptors remains a matter of controversy as some data suggest a transmembrane topology consisting of five, four, or three membrane spanning regions. Some receptor properties have been shown to be regulated by phosphorylation processes as well as by the phospholipid environment. More recently, we have shown that calcium treatment of thin (10 microns) frozen-thawed brain sections resulted in profound modifications of the immunochemical properties of the AMPA receptors. More specifically, immunolabelling of the AMPA receptors with antibodies directed against the C-terminal domain of GluR1 and GluR2/3 was markedly decreased in dendritic fields following such treatment at 35 degrees C. This effect was temperature-dependent and completely blocked by inhibitors of the calcium-dependent proteases calpains, and we suggested that calpains are involved in the regulation of AMPA receptor properties. The results of the present study demonstrate that calpain activation produces a partial proteolysis in the C-terminal domain of the receptors and generates a new receptor species with an apparent molecular weight of 103,000 mol. wt. Sequence analysis of the GluR1 C-terminal domain suggests a couple of cleavage sites for calpains. These results are of particular interest considering the body of evidence implicating calpains and changes in excitatory amino acid receptors in mechanisms of synaptic plasticity as well as in neurodegenerative processes.
Mast cells have previously been identified in mammalian brain by histochemistry and histamine fluorescence, particularly in the rat thalamus and hypothalamus. However, the nature of brain mast cells has continued to be questioned, especially because the electron microscopic appearance often shows secretory granule morphology distinct from that of typical connective tissue mast cells. Here we report that mast cells in the rat hypothalamus, identified based on metachromatic staining with Toluidine Blue, fluoresced after staining with berberine sulfate, indicating the presence of heparin. These cells were also positive immunohistochemically for histamine, as well as for rat mast cell protease I, an enzyme characteristically present in rat connective tissue mast cells. In addition, these same cells showed a very strong signal with in situ hybridization for immunoglobulin E binding protein messenger RNA. However, use of antibodies directed towards immunoglobulin E or its binding protein did not label any cells, which may mean either the binding protein is below the level of detection of the techniques used or that it is not expressed except in pathological conditions when the blood-brain barrier becomes permeable. At the ultrastructural level, perivascular mast cells contained numerous, intact, electron-dense granules which were labeled by gold-labeled anti-rat mast cell protease I. These results clearly demonstrate the presence of perivascular mast cells in the rat hypothalamus, where they may participate in homeostatic processes.
Recent studies suggest that rearrangement of synaptic circuitry of primary afferent neurons in the spinal cord may contribute, in part, to hyperalgesia that is often associated with peripheral nerve injury. This study of cultured adult rat dorsal root ganglion cells examined whether vasoactive intestinal polypeptide and neuropeptide Y, which are up-regulated in sensory neurons following nerve transection, possibly contribute to the morphological alterations induced by nerve injury. Neurite outgrowth of dissociated dorsal root ganglion cells was examined two weeks following either sciatic nerve transection or intrathecal administration of test agents via osmotic pumps. Dissociated cells taken from rats with transected sciatic nerve or following intrathecal administration of either vasoactive intestinal polypeptide or neuropeptide Y had a significant increase in the percentage of cells with neurites as compared to dorsal root ganglion cells taken from normal animals. Intrathecal administration, into rats with nerve lesion, of the vasoactive intestinal polypeptide and neuropeptide Y antagonists, vasoactive intestinal polypeptide(10-28) and alpha-trinositol, respectively, significantly attenuated the nerve injury-induced increase in neurite outgrowth. Vasoactive intestinal polypeptide and neuropeptide Y had no influence on neurite outgrowth when applied to normal dissociated dorsal root ganglion cells, however, when added to cells co-cultured with spinal cord explants, both peptides significantly increased the percentage of cells with neurites. K252a, a protein kinase inhibitor, attenuated the trophic action of neuropeptide Y, but not that of vasoactive intestinal polypeptide. The action of vasoactive intestinal polypeptide on neurite outgrowth was attenuated by the protein kinase A inhibitor, the Rp-isomer of adenosine-3',5'-cyclic monophosphorothioate. The results suggest that the peptides may contribute, indirectly, to the nerve injury-induced increase in neurite outgrowth of sensory neurons via separate spinally-derived neurotrophic factors and the study provides further insight into the possible mechanisms underlying hyperalgesia associated with nerve injury.
The distribution of somatostatin binding sites was studied in the pons and medulla oblongata of three human fetuses (gestional ages 26, 28 and 30 weeks). The study was carried out by in vitro quantitative autoradiography using either [125I-Tyr0,D-Trp8]somatostatin-14 or [125I-Tyr11]somatostatin-14 as radioligands. Somatostatin binding sites were observed in a number of nuclei subserving sensory, motor or integrative functions within the pons and medulla. In addition, discrete tracts also contained significant amounts of binding sites. Among structures involved in sensory processes, a high density of binding sites (40-60 fmol/ mg wet tissue) was measured in the dorsal cochlear nucleus and in the nucleus tractus spinalis trigemini caudalis. Moderate to high levels of binding sites (30-40 fmol/mg wet tissue) were detected in the other sensory cranial nerve nuclei. A moderate density of sites (15-30 fmol/mg wet tissue) was measured in most motor nuclei, the highest concentrations being observed in the dorsal motor nucleus of the vagus nerve, the facial nucleus, the hypoglossal nucleus and the nucleus ambiguus. The griseum pontis and the nucleus corporis pontobulbaris contained very high (&gt; 60 fmol/mg wet tissue) and high concentrations of somatostatin binding sites, respectively, while the other relay nuclei contained low to moderate levels of binding. In monoaminergic nuclei, very high and moderate to high concentrations of somatostatin binding sites were measured in the nucleus locus coeruleus and in its dorsal subnucleus, respectively. Moderate densities of sites were detected in the ventral subnucleus of the nucleus locus coeruleus and in the different parts of the raphe. In the white matter, low levels of binding were measured in the inferior cerebellar peduncle, the lateral and median lemnisci and the tractus solitarius. Conversely, moderate to high concentrations of somatostatin binding sites were measured in the median and superior cerebellar peduncles. The pyramis contained a very high density of recognition sites. A marked heterogeneity in the density of binding sites was observed within a few structures particularly in the medial accessory olivary of nucleus and the medial longitudinal fasciculus. Selective ligands were used to determine the pharmacological profile of the [Tyr11]somatostatin-14 binding sites in various brainstem regions. In the dorsal cochlear nucleus and the pyramis, all somatostatin binding sites belonged to the SSA subtype. Conversely, in the lateral paragigantocellular nucleus, all somatostatin binding sites belonged to the SSB subtype. The other regions studied contained various proportions of SSA and SSB subtypes. In conclusion, the present study shows that high concentrations of somatostatin receptors are present in many regions of the human fetus brainstem. These data support the concept that somatostatin could be involved in the maturation of brain structures.
The recent cloning of five somatostatin receptors has made it possible to begin screening for selective ligands in order to begin characterization of these receptor subtypes expressed endogenously. We have recently reported the characterization of ligands selective for SSTR2 and SSTR5 [Raynor K. et al. (1993) Molec. Pharmac. 43, 838-844; 44, 385-392]. Both of these somatostatin receptor subtypes are endogenously expressed in the mouse pituitary cell line AtT-20 [O'Carroll A.-M. et al. (1992) Molec. Pharmac. 42, 939-946; Patel Y. C. et al. (1994) J. biol. Chem. 269, 1506-1509; Tallent M. et al. (1996) Neuroscience 71, 1073-1081]. Using these selective ligands, as well as other somatostatin analogs, we have characterized the somatostatin receptor which couples to the inward rectifier K+ current in AtT-20 cells. This receptor is sensitive to hexapeptide analogs of somatostatin, but insensitive to octapeptide analogs. This pharmacological profile is distinct from any of the cloned somatostatin receptors and therefore may represent a novel receptor. Somatostatin has been shown to potentiate an inward rectifying K+ channel in many different types of neuronal and non-neuronal cells. The activation of this current is thought to be an important mechanism by which somatostatin inhibits neuronal firing and decreases neurotransmitter and hormone release [Mihara S. et al. (1987) J. Physiol. 390, 335-355]. Therefore, the novel somatostatin receptor coupling to the inward rectifier in AtT-20 cells may be important in somatostatin's role in regulating neurotransmission and hormone release.
The pineal gland-reactive response to long-term multifactor stress inducement performed by 18 h immobilization was found in the occurrence of different pinealocyte forms--cells of the basal activity, functionally animated cells and cells assumed to be threatened by an irreversible injury. Functionally animated pinealocytes were recognized as entities of neuroendocrine-like and ependymal-like activities displaying an episode of their initially increased secretory activity determined by Golgi apparatus and succeeded by a period determined by the storage of compounds arising from the cisterns of the granular reticulum. The domination of the pinealocytes with neuroendocrine-like activity was considered to evince a stimulated, peptidergic-mediated pineal gland activity. The adrenocorticotropic hormone-reactive secretion, employed as the evaluation parameter in morphofunctional observations, corroborated the morphologically estimated increased pineal gland activity in long-term stress inducement.
Light and electron microscopic histochemistry revealed acetylcholinesterase-positive and acetylcholinesterase-negative neurons in the main olfactory bulb of adult rat. Their distribution patterns on various neuron types have been analysed in detail. (1) No acetylcholinesterase staining could be demonstrated in the granule cells which receive a large number of the cholinergic synapses. (2) In contrast, enzyme activity was present in the soma and dendrites in most of the non-cholinergic and non-cholinoceptive relay cells (mitral cells and tufted cells) and in a subset of short-axon interneurons, where cholinergic synapses could not be detected. (3) Within the neuropil of glomeruli, two compartments were present, one of which was free of acetylcholinesterase-positive structures, while many enzyme-positive neuronal elements were seen in the other. (4) Characteristically, cholinergic and non-cholinergic neuronal structures showed triadic arrangements. (5) The axonal release of acetylcholinesterase from cholinergic axons is probable. It is suggested that, in the olfactory bulb, acetylcholinesterase is release by cholinergic afferent axons, and it is the cholinergic synapses that determine which postsynaptic neurons are cholinoceptive rather than the intraneuronal presence of acetylcholinesterase. In the main olfactory bulb, the acetylcholinesterase present in the relay cells therefore appears to have functions other than the hydrolysis of acetylcholine.
We tested the hypothesis that, in newborn kittens, superficial layers of the extrastriate cortex receive more specific patterns of corticocortical innervation from the striate cortex than deep layers. First, we injected retrogradely transported tract-tracers at a range of depths in area 18 to label area 17. All injections were of similar tangential diameter and were in the same region of rostral area 18, where the visual field 10-20 degrees below the horizontal meridian is represented. Injections that involved only the superficial layers of area 18 labelled cells mainly in the superficial layers (future layers 2-4) of area 17, across a region that was 2-3 mm wider than the diameter of the injection site in the rostrocaudal direction. Injections that involved all layers of area 18 labelled cells in both superficial and deep layers (5 and 6) of area 17, across a region that was 6-9 mm wider than the diameter of the injection site in the rostrocaudal direction. These values demonstrate that, in neonates, the convergence of projections from area 17 to the superficial layers of area 18 is less than that to the deep layers of area 18. The lower values for convergence obtained by injecting only the superficial layers of area 18 in kittens were similar to those obtained by injecting all layers of area 18 in adult cats; the values obtained by injecting all layers of area 18 in kittens were much higher. Second, we injected the full depth of area 17 in newborn kittens with labels that travel anterogradely and retrogradely. Confirming the conclusions from the use of retrograde tracers, these focal injections produced very widespread labelling of the deep layers of area 18, but much more localized and topographically organized labelling of its superficial layers. These results indicate that there is a considerable postnatal improvement in the accuracy with which corticocortical cells in striate visual cortex target appropriate regions in extrastriate cortex, in agreement with previous findings. They also demonstrate that this change occurs mainly among those striate cortical neurons that innervate a wide region of the deep layers of extrastriate cortex at birth. The innervation of the superficial layers of extrastriate cortex is much more accurate from the outset.
Neurons in rat medulla oblongata with Fos immunoreactivity as a marker of synaptic excitation evoked by pentylenetetrazole-induced seizures were compared with cell populations activated by the stimulation of chemoreceptor and baroreceptor afferent pathways. Chemoreceptors were stimulated by placing rats in a hypoxic gas mixture (7% oxygen) for 2 h. Baroreceptors were activated by phenylephrine-induced hypertension. Seizures and hypoxia induced Fos immunoreactivity in neurons with similar anatomical distributions in the nucleus tractus solitarius, dorsal motor nucleus of the vagus, and ventrolateral medulla. Hypertension was associated with Fos immunoreactivity in an overlapping anatomical distribution compared to seizures and hypoxia, but in a more restricted pattern. A similar proportion of catecholaminergic cells of medulla oblongata (cells immunoreactive for catecholamine synthetic enzymes, tyrosine hydroxylase or phenylethanolamine-N-methyltransferase) had Fos immunostaining after seizures and hypoxia (P &gt; 0.05), while significantly fewer were activated by hypertension (P &lt; 0.05). The majority of tyrosine hydroxylase-immunoreactive cells in caudal ventrolateral medulla were activated by both seizures and hypoxia (mean per cents, 79 and 67%, respectively). Since cell populations activated by seizures and hypoxia are indistinguishable, and a majority of tyrosine hydroxylase-reactive cells in caudal ventrolateral medulla are independently activated by each stimulus, it may be inferred that some impulses originating from seizures and chemoreceptor afferent pathways converge to a common set of neurons. These observations identify neurons in rat medulla oblongata which may mediate the impact of seizures on central processing of chemoreceptor afferent activity.
Gigantocellular neurons of the medullary nucleus gigantocellularis represent a major source of reticulospinal pathways. Among other roles, they have been involved in the processing of vestibular information. The aim of the present study was to describe the major intrinsic membrane properties of these cells in guinea-pig brainstem slices. We found nucleus gigantocellularis neurons to be segregated in two cell types. Type A nucleus gigantocellularis neurons were characterized by the presence of a single large afterhyperpolarization and a potent transient 4-aminopyridine-sensitive rectification likely due to the presence of a transient outward potassium current. In contrast, type B nucleus gigantocellularis neurons had a narrower and faster rising action potential followed by an early fast and a delayed slower after-hyperpolarization. In contrast to type A neurons, type B neurons were, in addition, endowed with subthreshold tetrodotoxin-sensitive sodium-dependent plateau potentials. Whereas both cell types were endowed with high-threshold calcium-dependent action potentials, only type B nucleus gigantocellularis neurons also displayed long-lasting calcium-dependent plateau potentials. These results show that nucleus gigantocellularis neurons can be segregated by their intrinsic membrane properties it two cell types which are very similar to those that we have previously described in the medial vestibular nucleus. The possibility that these differences between type A and B neurons might play a role in the segregation between tonic and kinetic cells is discussed.
Glycinergic neurotransmission was examined in rat medial pontine reticular formation neurons in vitro. Intracellular recordings using glass microelectrodes were made in acutely prepared brainstem slices 400 microns thick. Spontaneous and electrically evoked synaptic activity was blocked by the glycine antagonist strychnine (1-5 microM) but not by the GABA antagonists bicuculline methiodide (40 microM) or picrotoxin (40 microM). Strychnine-sensitive spontaneous and evoked postsynaptic potentials persisted in the presence of the glutamate antagonist (kynurenate, 1 mM). Whole-cell voltage-clamp recordings were carried out in organotypic cultures of rat brainstem. The reversal potential of synaptic currents and responses to exogenously applied glycine were similar and were sensitive to manipulations of the chloride equilibrium potential. Synaptic activity but not responses to exogenous glycine were blocked by tetrodotoxin (0.3 microM). These results indicate the presence of robust, chloride ion-mediated glycinergic inhibition of medial pontine reticular formation neurons, and suggest that glycinergic neurons play an important role in controlling pontine premotor circuitry.
The authors conducted an in vivo study, using a rat striatal ischemic model, of the effect of GABAergic transmission upon the dopamine synthesizing enzyme tyrosine hydroxylase in the neurons of the substantia nigra pars compacta. Two hours transient middle cerebral artery occlusion produced massive striatal ischemic damage resulting in a marked decrease of GABAergic projection to the ipsilateral substantia nigra. Histological examinations were conducted in rats killed at three, seven, 15, 30 and 94 days after ischemia. The immunoreactivity for tyrosine hydroxylase in the ipsilateral pars compacta was unaltered up to three days after the ischemic insult, but it was markedly decreased at seven days post-ischemia. At this stage, the number of neurons positive for tyrosine hydroxylase was significantly decreased in the ipsilateral pars compacta, whereas there was no significant reduction in the number of pars compacta neurons containing Nissl substance. By 30 days post-ischemia, the tyrosine hydroxylase-positive cell number in the ipsilateral pars compacta appeared to be equivalent to that of the contralateral side. It was also noted that continuous intraventricular administration of a GABAA receptor agonist muscimol, initiated from 24 h post-ischemia, effectively prevented the transient reduction of immunoreactivity for tyrosine hydroxylase in the ipsilateral pars compacta at seven and 15 days after ischemic insult. The present study revealed that the striatal ischemic lesion induced a transient down-regulation of tyrosine hydroxylase synthesis in the pars compacta neurons, which could be prevented by administration of GABA agonist, suggesting that GABAergic transmission greatly affects dopamine metabolism in these cells.
The striatonigral pathway provides one of the most direct routes for information flow through the basal ganglia system. Via this pathway information from sensory, motor and associative areas of the cerebral cortex are routed to a variety of thalamocortical and brainstem networks involved in the organization of motor behaviour. In a previous analysis of the rat substantia nigra pars reticulata we have shown that the nigral cells which project to thalamus, tectum and tegmentum are topographically ordered along a series of curved laminae. Extending these observations, the present study examined how striatal regions related to particular areas of the cerebral cortex innervate the lamellar keyboard of nigral output neurons. For this purpose, small microiontophoretic injections of wheat germ agglutinin conjugated to horseradish peroxidase were performed in the striatum and the distribution of retrogradely-labelled cells in the cerebral cortex and anterogradely-labelled axons in the substantia nigra were conjointly examined. The results indicate that with the exception of the striatal region related to the allocortex, all the various components of the striatal functional mosaic are represented in the substantia nigra pars reticulata. This representation is organized under the form of longitudinal bands which compose a series of curved laminae enveloping a core located dorsolaterally in the substantia nigra. The striatal mapping in substantia nigra pars reticulata is such that the projections of the auditory and visual compartments are confined to the most ventral lamina. More dorsally, an ordered representation of the body is achieved by the nigral lamination. The oral and perioral body parts are centred on the dorsolateral core and the more distal parts of the face and limbs are progressively set out in more peripheral laminae. In the region affiliated to the prefrontal cortex, the dorsal cingulate district innervate a ventromedial lamina, the prelimbic/insular district lie dorsal to it. Projections from lateral orbital and insular compartments extend laterally along the dorsal margin of the pars reticulata. Since the &quot;onion-like&quot; distribution of striatal inputs is precisely the form observed in the distribution of nigral efferent neurons, the present observations favour the view that the nigral lamination underlies formation of specific input-output channels of processing. Evidence is considered that these channels are specialized for particular classes of movements or behaviours and integrate the various information relevant to the completion of these movements or behaviours.
The effects of carbachol on rat neostriatal neurons were examined in the slice and the freshly dissociated neuron preparations using intracellular and whole-cell voltage-clamp recording methods. Superfusion of carbachol (30 microM) produced a depolarization concomitant with an increase in the rate of spontaneous action potentials. This depolarization was associated with an increase in the input resistance. The carbachol-induced membrane depolarization was blocked by pirenzepine (1 microM), a selective M1 muscarinic receptor antagonist. In other experiments, we observed that carbachol induced a transient inward current on the freshly dissociated neostriatal neuron at a holding potential of -60 mV in a concentration-dependent manner underlying the whole-cell voltage-clamp mode. The inward current caused by carbachol was not reduced by tetrodotoxin (1 microM), calcium-free recording solution or Cd2+ (100 microM). However, it was blocked by Ba2+ (100 microM). In addition, the carbachol-induced inward current reversed polarity at about the potassium equilibrium potential. The whole-cell membrane inward current in response to voltage-clamp step from -90 to -140 mV was reduced by 30 microM carbachol. With stronger hyperpolarization beyond the potassium equilibrium potential, carbachol produced a progressively greater reduction in membrane current. This inhibitory effect was also abolished by Ba2+ (100 microM). A concentration of 30 microM carbachol-induced inward current could be reversibly antagonized by the M1 muscarinic receptor antagonist pirenzepine (0.1-1 microM), with an estimated IC50 of 0.3 microM. However, other muscarinic receptor subtype (M2 or M3) antagonists could also block the carbachol-induced inward current. The rank order of antagonist potency was: pirenzepine (M1 antagonist) &gt; 4-diphenylacetoxy-N,N-methyl-piperidine methiodide (M3/M1 antagonist) &gt; gallamine (M2 antagonist). Based on these pharmacological data, we concluded that carbachol can act at M1-like muscarinic receptors to reduce the membrane K+ conductances and excite the neostriatal neurons.
Excitatory amino acids and dopamine interact to control information flow in the neostriatum. The present study was designed to examine some of the age-induced alterations in the interaction of these two neurotransmitter systems. First, responsiveness of neostriatal neurons to glutamate and N-methyl-D-aspartate was compared in neurons from young and in aged animals. N-Methyl-D-aspartate function was chosen for emphasis because declines in cognitive processes during aging are thought to involve changes in this excitatory amino acid receptor. Second, the age-related changes in dopamine's ability to modulate responses mediated by excitatory amino acid receptors was examined. Specifically, the ability of dopamine to differentially modulate responses induced by N-methyl-D-aspartate and glutamate was assessed. There is considerable evidence for alterations in dopamine receptors and behavioral responses to dopamine in aged animals. It thus becomes important to determine how these alterations are reflected at an electrophysiological level. The responses to application of excitatory amino acid agonists and dopamine as well as changes in synaptic responses mediated by activation of N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors were assessed in 69 neurons obtained from young Fischer 344 rats (3-5 months) and young cats (3-4 years) and 69 neurons obtained from aged Fischer 344 rats (24-26 months) and aged cats (10-16 years) using an in vitro slice preparation. The results indicated that populations of aged neurons from both rats and cats displayed qualitative and quantitative alterations in responses to iontophoretic application of excitatory amino acid receptor agonists. These alterations included lack of response, unusual responses consisting of depolarizations without action potentials or combinations of prepotentials and full amplitude action potentials. Threshold currents for induction of responses were also significantly elevated in neurons from aged animals. Synaptic response components mediated by activation of N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors in aged rats were reduced as well. Exposure to Mg(2+)-free artificial cerebrospinal fluid resulted in marked increases in the size of responses evoked by local stimulation in young neurons from rats. These increases, which are mediated by activation of N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors, were significantly attenuated in aged neurons. The ability of dopamine to modulate responses mediated by activation of excitatory amino acid receptors was reduced in cells from both aged rats and cats. Subpopulations of cells were either unresponsive to dopamine or required higher iontophoretic current intensities to modulate excitatory amino acid-induced responses. The present findings further document age-induced changes in neostriatal electrophysiology indicating that interactions between excitatory amino acids and dopamine appear to be compromised during aging. They emphasize alterations in N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor function and suggest further than the ability of neostriatal neurons to integrate information is altered during aging. The present findings are supported by data from the literature indicating decreases in N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor function during aging. Furthermore, the decreases in excitatory amino acid function during aging suggest that therapeutic interventions designed to prevent or retard the deleterious effects of age in the neostriatum might be directed toward enhancing excitatory amino acid receptor function.
Glutamate receptors are composed of subtype-specific subunits. Variation in the precise subunit composition of a receptor may result in significant functional differences. Thus, a precise knowledge of subunit composition on striatal neurons is a prerequisite for understanding the selective vulnerability of striatal neurons to excitatory amino acids. In the present study, we used an immunohistochemical double-labelling approach to localize ionotropic glutamate receptor subunits (NMDAR1, GluR1, GluR2/3, GluR4 and GluR5/6/7) on specific striatal neuron populations. Our results showed that striatal cholinergic and somatostatin interneurons were not labelled for the alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazole-propionate, receptor subunits GluR1, GluR2/3 and GluR4. Most cholinergic and somatostatin interneurons (83.3% to 100%), however, were double-labelled for the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor subunit NR1 and kainic acid receptor subunits GluR5/6/7. All parvalbumin interneurons were labelled for GluR1 and GluR4, and 96% GluR1 positive and 95% GluR4 positive neurons were also double-labelled as parvalbumin interneurons. About half of all parvalbumin interneurons co-localized with GluR2/3, and over 97% were labelled for NR1 and GluR5/6/7. Among striatal projection neurons, enkephalin-positive (mainly striatopallidal) neurons, striatonigral neurons (mainly substance P-positive) and calbindin-positive matrix neurons were not immunostained for GluR1 or GluR4. In contrast, 95% to 100% of each of these types of projection neurons were double-labelled for NR1, GluR2/3 and GluR5/6/7. Our results demonstrate that striatal neuron types differ in their expression of ionotropic glutamate receptor subunits and subtypes. The clear difference between striatal interneurons and projection neurons in ionotropic glutamate receptor subtypes/subunits supports the idea that differential glutamate receptor expression mechanism may account for the selective vulnerability of striatal projection neurons to excitotoxicity, and that glutamate receptor-mediated excitotoxicity may be involved in the striatal neurodegenerative diseases.
Thyroid hormones, which are known to act by genomic mechanisms in peripheral tissues, were found to influence the binding and function of the GABAA receptor complex in brain membranes. Submicromolar concentrations of triiodothyronine and thyroxine stereospecifically stimulated the binding of [35S]t-butylbicyclophosphorothionate (a convulsant ligand for the GABAA receptor complex) to highly washed rat brain membranes, while higher concentrations of the hormones inhibited radioligand binding. GABA-stimulated 36Cl-flux in isolated brain membrane sacs was inhibited by L-triiodothyronine with a half-maximally inhibitory concentration (IC50) of 10(-7) M. Patch-clamp analysis of recombinant GABAA receptor subunits expressed in human embryonic kidney-293 cells showed an inhibition of chloride currents by thyroid hormones. This effect required only the alpha 1 beta 2 subunits, and was not blocked by the benzodiazepine antagonist flumazenil. Since thyroid hormones are known to be concentrated in nerve terminal preparations and subsequently released, the hormones may have non-genomic mechanisms of action as putative neurotransmitters or neuromodulators in brain and act through GABAA receptors.
Studies of molecular cloning predict great heterogeneity for the GABAA receptor; however, evidence for functionally and pharmacologically distinct native GABAA receptors is relatively scarce. In this work we have compared some of the functional and pharmacological properties of two GABAA receptors previously shown to be present in the adult rat central nervous system. In superfused hippocampal synaptosomes activation of GABAA receptors increased the basal release of [3H]noradrenaline (EC50 for GABA = 3.2 microM). In contrast, the overflow evoked by depolarization with high-K+ (12 or 35 mM) was not affected. Conversely, GABAA receptor activation led to potentiation of the K(+)-evoked overflow of [3H]D-aspartate from cerebellar synaptosomes (EC50 for GABA = 1.3 microM) whereas the basal release remained unchanged. GABA and muscimol also potentiated the K(+)-evoked overflow of endogenous glutamate in cerebellum. Diazepam enhanced the GABA (3 microM)-evoked [3H]noradrenaline release (EC50 = 65 nM). The diazepam potentiation of the GABA- or muscimol-evoked release of [3H]noradrenaline was inversely related to the agonist concentration. The effect of diazepam was reversed by the benzodiazepine antagonist flumazenil. Zolpidem mimicked diazepam (EC50 = 14 nM). The increase of the K(+)-evoked overflow of [3H]D-aspartate (or of endogenous glutamate) elicited by GABA or muscimol in cerebellar synaptosomes was not affected by benzodiazepines (diazepam or clonazepam) or by zolpidem. On the other hand, Ro 15-4513, an inverse agonist at the benzodiazepine site, strongly inhibited (EC50 = 7 nM) the enhancement by GABA (3 microM) of the K(+)-evoked [3H]D-aspartate overflow in cerebellar synaptosomes; the effect of Ro 15-4513 was reversed by flumazenil. These results suggest the existence in the central nervous system of the adult rat of two native pharmacological-subtypes of the GABAA receptor having different function, regional distribution and neuronal location; the receptors require different membrane potential to be activated and display different sensitivity to benzodiazepines and to drugs acting at benzodiazepine sites.
Neurotoxicity of (2S,1'R,2'R,3'R)-2-(2,3-dicarboxycyclopropyl)glycine (DCG-IV), a potent agonist for metabotropic glutamate receptors negatively coupled to adenylyl cyclase, was investigated in vivo by the intraventricular administration in the rat, compared with that of (2S,1'S,2'S)-2-(carboxycyclopropyl)glycine (L-CCG-I) and (1S,3R)-1-aminocyclopentane-1,3-dicarboxylic acid [(1S,3R)-ACPD]. Neither L-CCG-I nor (1S,3R)-ACPD caused any apparent pathological change in the brain at an intraventricular dose of 1 mumol, whereas DCG-IV induced selective neuronal damage in some rats at higher doses than 3 nmol. The neurotoxicity was intensified in a dose-dependent manner, and at a dose of 50 nmol DCG-IV caused repetitive seizures and selective neuronal damage in all cases. Neuronal damage was pronounced in the cingulate cortex, lateral septum and hippocampus, and a few degenerating neurons were observed also in other brain areas, such as the striatum, thalamus or neocortex. Since DCG-IV activates N-methyl-D-aspartate-type receptors as well at relatively high concentrations, the protective effect of a competitive antagonist for N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors, 3-[(RS)-2-carboxypiperazin-4-yl]propyl-1-phosphonic acid (CPP), was examined on the neurotoxicity of DCG-IV. Although a combined treatment with CPP (0.1 nmol) completely blocked the neurotoxicity of N-methyl-D-aspartate (100 nmol), at least 3 nmol of CPP was necessary to decrease the neurotoxicity of DCG-IV (50 nmol) to a considerable extent. The synergistic activation of metabotropic glutamate receptors and N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors is suggested as a possible mechanism underlying the selective neuronal damage induced by DCG-IV, although a direct participation of metabotropic glutamate receptors in glutamate neurotoxicity is not deniable.
Immunoreactivity to pituitary adenylate cyclase activating polypeptide-38 was detected in numerous nerve fibres in layers I and II of the dorsal horn of the rat and some of these fibres extended into the deeper layers of all segments of the spinal cord. Immunoreactivity was also detected in the lateral funiculus projecting into the intermediolateral cell column of the lower cervical and thoracic segments and in the lateral pathway terminating in the intermediate gray area of the lower lumbar and sacral segments. Neurons in the lateral horn area were not immunoreactive nor were the ventral horn motoneurons. In the medulla, numerous immunoreactive fibres were observed in the spinal trigeminal tract and superficial layers of the caudal spinal trigeminal nucleus but few in the interpolar spinal trigeminal nucleus. A prominent immunoreactive nerve bundle emanated from the caudal spinal trigeminal nucleus and projected into the solitary tract. A dense network of immunoreactive neurons and fibres was present in the nucleus raphe obscurus, lateral reticular nucleus and parvocellular lateral reticular nucleus. Immunoreactive fibres could also be detected in the solitary tract and area postrema. Labelled somata were occasionally noted in various subnuclei of the nucleus of the solitary tract and nucleus raphe pallidus. In addition, a small number of positive neurons were detected in an area between the lateral reticular nucleus and inferior olive and near the ventral surface of the medulla (parapyramidal region). A few weakly-labelled cells were occasionally seen in the dorsal motor nucleus of vagus. A population of neurons in the trigeminal, nodose and dorsal root ganglia from all segments of the spinal cord displayed low to intense immunoreactivity. The presence of immunoreactivity in nodose and dorsal root ganglia, dorsal horn, spinal autonomic nuclei, solitary tract and in certain areas of the medulla suggests that this peptide may participate in a variety of sensory and autonomic functions.
Repetitive firing of nerve fibres results in the slowing of their conduction velocity. The extent of conduction velocity slowing throughout a standard electrical stimulus (20 s, 20 Hz, 2 x electrical threshold) was examined in identified C-fibres dissected from the saphenous nerve of anaesthetized rats. The aim of this study was to establish whether the different functional classes of C-fibre could be identified on the basis of their activity-dependent slowing of conduction velocity. Following 20 s of stimulation at 20 Hz, nociceptive C-fibres showed a significantly greater slowing of conduction velocity (mean +/- S.E.; polymodal and heat nociceptors = 29.2% +/- 0.7, n = 53; mechanical nociceptors = 27.7% +/- 1.7, n =13) than cold thermoreceptive fibres (10.8% +/- 0.6, n = 10), mechanoreceptors (14.4% +/- 0.8, n = 17) and spontaneously active sympathetic efferent units (14.9% +/- 0.8, n = 24). The degree of conduction velocity slowing shown by a unit was not correlated with its resting conduction velocity. There was little overlap of the degree of conduction velocity slowing between the nociceptive and non-nociceptive fibres. Also, there was little overlap of conduction velocity slowing between the mechanoreceptors and the cold units, particularly after just 6 s of stimulation at 20 Hz. Units for which no receptive field to mechanical or thermal stimuli could be found showed a bimodal distribution of conduction velocity slowing. In the saphenous nerve, such inexcitable units will be of three main types--sympathetic efferent units, &quot;sleeping&quot; or &quot;silent&quot; nociceptors and non-cutaneous afferent fibres. Those inexcitable units slowing in conduction velocity by greater than 20% showed a similar distribution to the polymodal nociceptors and those inexcitable units slowing by less than 20% showed a similar distribution to the spontaneously active sympathetic units. Twenty-three of the 61 units without mechanical or thermal receptive fields were investigated using electrical skin stimulation and topical application of 5 or 10% mustard oil. Afferent fields could not be found for any of the nine units that slowed in conduction velocity by less than 20%. Afferent fields were detected for 11 of the remaining 14 insensitive units, which all showed a greater than 20% slowing from resting conduction velocity. Therefore, one can distinguish nociceptive and non-nociceptive afferent fibres simply by looking at the axonal property of activity-dependent slowing of conduction velocity. Moreover, it is possible to use this axonal property to separate the two classes of non-nociceptive afferent C-fibre (i.e. mechanoreceptors and cold thermoreceptors). In addition, one can also use this parameter to differentiate between the afferent and non-afferent populations of inexcitable C-fibres. The ability to identify a particular fibre type on the basis of an axonal property provides a useful tool for the functional classification of fibres in experiments where axons are separated from their terminals.
It has been suggested that the expression of c-fos and other immediate early genes in spinal dorsal horn neurons would trigger changes in the phenotype of nociceptive neurons which may lead to long-term changes in spinal nociception. To test this hypothesis, we have used a minimally invasive intrathecal stimulation and injection technique which can be applied to adult Sprague-Dawley rats under brief ether anesthesia to induce massive c-fos expression in spinal neurons without affecting peripheral nociceptors. Electrical intrathecal stimulation (0.5 ms pulses, 15 V, 3 Hz for 15 min) or intrathecal injection of N-methyl-D-aspartate (25 nmol) produced massive c-Fos immunoreactivity in neurons throughout the sacral spinal cord and the dorsal horn of the lumber spinal cord. Immunoreactivity declined to control values at mid-thoracic levels. To assess effects of these intrathecal stimuli on nociception, hot-plate and tail-flick latencies and mechanical thresholds of hindlimb withdrawal reflexes were measured once every day for 14 days before and up to 14 days after conditioning stimulation. Spontaneous locomotion of each animal was video-taped daily for 5 min and analysed off-line. On the day of the intrathecal stimulation the tests were performed 1 h before and also 6 h after conditioning stimulation. Thermal and mechanical nociceptive thresholds were temporarily enhanced 6 h after intrathecal stimulation but they were not different from controls one to 14 days later. Thus, the massive expression of c-fos in spinal neurons is not, as previously suggested, a sufficient condition for the induction of long-term changes in spinal nociception.
The involvement of nitric oxide in nociceptive processing was examined at the main loci of synaptic transmission within the rat somatosensory pathway from the caudal sural cutaneous nerve. Intrathecal (lumbar 1-3) administration of the nitric oxide synthase inhibitor, N omega-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester (30 micrograms), inhibited nitric oxide synthase in this region of the spinal cord by greater than 80% but had no significant effect on nitric oxide synthase in parietal cerebral cortex, thalamus or medulla/pons. In a rat model of peripheral neuropathy (one to two week ligation of the caudal sural cutaneous nerve), intrathecal administration of the same dose of N omega-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester prevented the hyperalgesic response to thermal stimuli. Administration of 30 micrograms N omega-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester into the lateral ventricle had no effect on nitric oxide synthase in the lumbar 1-3 region of the spinal cord but gave substantial inhibition in higher areas of the somatosensory pathway (parietal cerebral cortex, thalamus and medulla/pons). Nitric oxide synthase in the parietal cerebral cortex (but not thalamus) was inhibited to a greater extent in the hemisphere ipsilateral to the site of administration. Administration of 30 micrograms N omega-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester into the lateral ventricle decreased thermal hyperalgesia, but only when N omega-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester was administered contralateral to the ligated caudal sural cutaneous nerve and therefore ipsilateral to the cortical nociceptive processing from this nerve. Intrathecal and intracerebroventricular administration of the selective inhibitor of nitric oxide-sensitive guanylyl cyclase, 1-H-[1,2,4]oxadiazalo[4,3-a]quinoxalin-1-one, also decreased the hyperalgesic response to thermal stimuli. These data demonstrate that, in a model of neuropathic pain, nitric oxide is involved in nociceptive processing at spinal and cerebrocortical synaptic loci of the somatosensory pathway and that its actions appear to be mediated through guanylyl cyclase.
The cytoplasmic calcium concentration ([Ca2+]i) was measured from Purkinje neurons in acutely prepared cerebellar slices. Neurons were loaded with calcium indicator Fura-2 by 40-min slice incubation in Tyrode solution containing 5 microM Fura-2/AM and 0.02% pluronic-F127. Bath applications of ATP (100 microM), epinephrine (10 microM) and histamine (100 microM) triggered a transient increase of [Ca2+]i in Purkinje neurons. ATP-induced [Ca2+]i elevation in Purkinje neurons was mimicked by ADP, but not AMP or adenosine pointing to the involvement of P2Y metabotropic purinoreceptors. Epinephrine-triggered [Ca2+]i responses were blocked by the selective alpha 1-antagonist prazosin and were mimicked by the alpha 1-adrenoreceptor agonist phenylephrine, and were not affected by beta- and alpha 2-adrenoreceptor agonists (isoproterenol and clonidine) and antagonists (propranolol and yohimbine). Histamine-induced [Ca2+]i responses demonstrated specific sensitivity to selective H1 antagonist chlorpheniramine, and were not sensitive to H2 and H3 histamine receptors modulators. The [Ca2+]i responses to all three agonists persisted in Ca(2+)-free extracellular media and were blocked by slice preincubation with thapsigargin (500 nM). We conclude that cerebellar Purkinje neurons are endowed with metabotropic P2 gamma purinoreceptors, alpha 1-adrenoreceptors and H1 histamine receptors which mediate the generation of intracellular [Ca2+]i signals via activation of Ca2+ release from inositol-1,4,5-trisphosphate-sensitive intracellular stores.
It is now clear that ATP acts as a neurotransmitter in both the peripheral and central nervous systems. In the periphery, purinergic transmission has been best studied at certain sympathetic neuroeffector junctions where ATP, co-localized with noradrenaline, is used to elicit the primary post-junctional response. More recently, several groups have raised the possibility that central catecholaminergic neurons might use ATP in a similar fashion. Accordingly, we now present findings from immediate early gene expression and electrophysiological studies which indicate that ATP, acting through P2 purinoreceptors, is used as a transmitter by caudal brainstem noradrenergic neurons, the A1 group, in their interaction with vasopressinergic neurosecretory cells. Supraoptic nucleus vasopressin cell responses to moderate haemorrhage, known to be generated by the A1 projection, were suppressed by hypothalamic application of the P2 receptor antagonist suramin. However, suramin did not alter vasopressin cell responses to osmotic challenge or severely hypotensive haemorrhage, two stimuli known to excite vasopressin cells independently of the A1 projection. These data are consistent with an identity of action between the A1 input to vasopressin cells and the activation of ATP receptors on vasopressin cells. The use of ATP as a transmitter by other catecholamine neurons in the brain awaits further confirmation, but the present findings suggest that in certain instances the therapeutic manipulation of central catecholamine neuron output might best be achieved with pharmacological agents which target purinergic rather than adrenergic transmission.
The pineal hormone melatonin protects neurons in vitro from excitotoxicity mediated by kainate-sensitive glutamate receptors and from oxidative stress-induced DNA damage and apoptosis. Intraperitoneal injection on kainate into experimental animals triggers DNA damage in several brain areas, including the hippocampus. It is not clear whether melatonin is neuroprotective in vivo. In this study, we tested the in vivo efficacy of melatonin in preventing kainate-induced DNA damage in the hippocampus of adult male Wistar rats. Melatonin and kainate were injected i.p. Rats were killed six to 72 h later and their hippocampi were examined for evidence of DNA damage (in situ dUTP-end-labeling, i.e. TUNEL staining) and for cell viability (Nissl staining). Quantitative assay was performed using computerized image analysis. At 48 and 72 h after kainate we found TUNEL-positive cells in the CA1 region of the hippocampus; in the adjacent sections that were Nissl-stained, we found evidence of cell loss. Both the number of TUNEL-positive cells and the loss of Nissl staining were reduced by i.p. administration of melatonin (4 x 2.5 mg/kg; i.e. 20 min before kainate, immediately after, and 1 and 2 h after the kainate). Our results suggest that melatonin might reduce the extent of cell damage associated with pathologies such as epilepsy that involve the activation of kainate-sensitive glutamate receptors.
We investigated the production of tumor necrosis factor alpha, a pleotropic cytokine, in the rat sciatic nerve using immunohistochemistry for the protein and in situ hybridization for specific messenger RNA sequences. Results demonstrated that in the uninjured sciatic nerve, few endothelial cells, fibroblasts, and Schwann cells were immunoreactive for tumor necrosis factor. In situ hybridization did not yield visible results in this control tissue. Following a compression injury, the number of immunoreactive cells in the nerve fascicle was increased. In situ hybridization showed positive staining in Schwann cells and endothelial cells at seven days. These observations are the first to demonstrate the production of this proinflammatory cytokine by peripheral nerve glia, and further support other studies from this laboratory suggesting that tumor necrosis factor has a pathogenic role in nerve injury. Because this cytokine is produced by Schwann cells in intimate contact with nerve fibers, tumor necrosis factor may also have a role in the hyperalgesia associated with neuropathic pain.
Nine patients with lumbar spinal problems (patient group) and four healthy volunteers as a control group were examined by the microneurographic technique. A tungsten microelectrode (impedance 2 approximately 5 M omega) was introduced into the peroneal nerve in the affected limb in the patient group. Muscle sympathetic nerve activities were rectified and integrated every 0.1 sec. Muscle sympathetic nerve activity was expressed as the burst number of integrated muscle sympathetic nerve activities per minute (burst rate) and the burst number per 100 heart beats (burst incidence). Statistical analyses were performed by ANOVA. The mean burst rate was 22.5 +/- 5.3 burst/min in the patient group, and 11.9 +/- 1.9 burst/min in the control group. The mean burst incidence was 31.7 +/- 8.2 burst/100 HB in the patient group and 17.1 +/- 4.3 burst/100 HB in the control group. Both the mean burst rate and mean burst incidence were higher in the patient group than in the control group (mean burst rate: p &lt; 0.005, mean burst incidence: p &lt; 0.01). In 62.5% of the patients with increased muscle sympathetic nerve activity, dysesthesia (tingling, and pin prick sensations) was complained of. There was a positive correlation between dysesthesia and increased basic activity of the muscle sympathetic nerve. This suggests the sympathetic nervous system may be involved in inducing abnormal sensations.
The technique using antisense oligonucleotides has been widely used in the study of specific functions of targeted protein molecules. This technique has enabled us to perform experiments which were previously impossible in the field of neuropsychopharmacology. Some chemically modified oligonucleotide analogues (i.e., phosphorothioate, S-oligo), which are relatively nuclease-resistant, are now available. However, the molecular mechanisms of action, pharmacokinetics, and kinetics of cellular uptake of antisense oligonucleotides, have not yet been fully understood. Recently, a number of reports have described the use of antisense oligonucleotides in inhibiting gene expression in the living brain, using intact laboratory animals. In the present article, after a brief discussion of mechanisms of action of antisense oligonucleotides, the methodological aspects of antisense experiments using the &quot;mini osmotic pump&quot; as the oligonucleotide delivery system are reviewed. The choice, design, mode of delivery, and dose are also discussed. In particular, we address the advantages and disadvantages of the antisense oligonucleotide technique as well as the control experiments required. This technique is a powerful method and one of the most important tools in neuropsychopharmacology research.
NNC 22-0010 is a new dopamine antagonist with a high affinity and selectivity for D1 receptors in vitro. NNC 22-0010 has both an N-methyl group and a bromine, which allows radiolabelling with either 11C or 76Br. We labelled [11C]NNC 22-0010 by N-methylation of the free base of the secondary amine with [11C]methyl iodide in a total radiochemical yield of 40%. The total synthesis time was 30 min. The specific radioactivity at time of injection of the radioligand was 48 to 55 GBq/mumol. The [76Br]NNC 22-0010 was synthesized from the iodine precursor by an exchange reaction with 76Br using a Cu(+)-assisted nucleophilic substitution reaction. The radiochemical yield was 60% after purification. Specific radioactivity at time of injection of the radioligand was 6 to 20 GBq/mumol. In PET experiments with [11C]NNC 22-0010 and [76Br]NNC 22-0010 there was a rapid uptake of radioactivity in the monkey brain. The striatum-to-cerebellum ratio was 2-2.5 after 1 h. Binding in the striatum was displaced by SCH 23390, whereas binding in the cerebellum was not reduced. Metabolite studies showed that 1 h after injection about 20% of the radioactivity in plasma represented unchanged radioligand. This value was on the same level for at least 6 h. The results indicate that radiolabelled NNC 22-0010 has potential for imaging dopamine D1 receptors selectively in the human brain.
Despite evidence that systemic morphine preferentially attenuates second pain sensations that are presumed to result from activation of unmyelinated (C) nociceptors, most animal models of nociception elicit sensations that result from or are dominated by activation of myelinated (A-delta) nociceptors. Therefore, methods were developed to directly compare the effects of morphine on late (second) pain sensations and early onset (first) pain sensations in an animal model. In order to establish appropriate stimulus parameters, human psychophysical experiments compared characteristics of sensations evoked by brief (pulsed) thermal stimulation and ramp-and-hold thermal stimulation. Brief (500 msec) contact of a pre-heated thermode with the skin produced late pain sensations with peripheral conduction velocities in the range of C afferents, as estimated by latencies from stimulation of proximal and distal sites on the leg. The sensations evoked by brief contact increased with successive contacts (pulses) at 0.4 Hz, demonstrating temporal summation of sensation intensity. Pretreatment of the skin with capsaicin enhanced the late pain sensations from pulsed stimulation. In contrast, peak sensations evoked by ramp-and-hold thermal stimulation were evoked at similar latencies from disparate sites on the leg, and capsaicin pretreatment of the skin did not increase the magnitude of these sensations. The pulsed and ramp-and-hold forms of stimulation were used in a paradigm designed to test for differential effects of systemic morphine on operant responses of non-human primates. Low doses of morphine reduced operant responding to pulsed thermal contact, while higher doses were required to affect responses to ramp-and-hold thermal stimulation. The low doses of morphine did not suppress non-nociceptive (intertrial) motor responses, indicating that motor inhibition was not responsible for the effects on escape responses to pulsed stimulation. Measurements of skin temperature 10 cm from the site of stimulation showed that morphine had no effect on baseline temperature but attenuated changes in skin temperature that were elicited by pulsed and by ramp-and-hold stimulation. This effect of morphine on skin temperature responses could not account for the reduction of operant responsivity to thermal stimulation. These results support previous findings that systemic morphine preferentially attenuates second pain sensations, and a new animal model of morphine-sensitive thermal nociception is established. These findings demonstrate the importance of defining the sources of afferent input and the response measures in experiments which attempt to measure antinociceptive effects of pharmacological agents.
A qualitatively evident enhancement of chromolytic neurons within the lateral posterior thalamus of rats in which limbic seizures had been induced by lithium and pilocarpine and who were later trained for spatial memory was assessed quantitatively. The significant increase in the numbers of chromolytic neurons and the decrease in the numbers of normal neurons for these rats compared to the reference brains suggested these morphological changes were recent. The hypothesis that excessive stimulation of the lateral posterior nucleus by daily training in a radial maze may have facilitated the necrosis was supported by the inverse relationship between a linear combination of the numbers of normal neurons and oligodendroglia and the rate of learning during the earlier but not the later sessions. An implication for iatrogenic effects from rehabilitation of humans following brain injury was suggested.
This article reviews presumed roles of recurrent inhibition in motor control, that have been proposed over the past five decades. The discussion is structured in an order of increasing complexity. It starts out with the simplest and earliest circuit, that is recurrent self-inhibition of skeleto-motoneurons, and related functions. It soon becomes clear that in order to understand recurrent inhibition, we must look beyond the simple self-inhibitory CNS circuit. First, recurrent inhibition must be seen in the context of other neural circuits. Second, some quantitative features appear to be correlated with features of the neuromusculo-skeletal periphery. Third, the aspect of lateral inhibition between different members of a motoneuron pool as well as between different motoneuron pools points to the essential multiple input-multiple output structure of recurrent inhibition that again can be understood only by correlating it with features of the neuromusculo-skeletal periphery. Another extension results from the discovery that recurrent inhibition affects not only skeleto-motoneurons, but also gamma-motoneurons, Ia inhibitory interneurons mediating reciprocal inhibition between antagonist motoneurons, other Renshaw cells and cells of origin of the ventral spinocerebellar tract (VSCT). Then the view broadens again, investigating the potential role that recurrent inhibition plays in two far-ranging theories of motor control, the inverse-dynamics approach and the equilibrium-point hypothesis. Finally, the present author tries to formulate, in broad strokes, a personal functional interpretation of recurrent inhibition. All the functional considerations, right or wrong, should yield ideas for new experiments, and this then is the last objective of this review.
This review takes up and updates some major issues dealt with in the book &quot;How brain-like is the spinal cord?&quot; (Windhorst, U. (1988) How Brain-like is the Spinal Cord? Interacting Cell Assemblies in the Nervous System. Springer: Berlin). 1. The main subject dealt with in the book was on the code used by the central nervous system (CNS) to represent and convey information. Specifically, it was proposed that, apart from the generally accepted frequency code (rate of cell firing) and others, information is also encoded in the synchronized or otherwise correlated firing of assemblies of neurons. (ii) Since the temporary establishment of cell assemblies requires mechanisms of flexible neuronal interactions, the second important topic was neuronal plasticity and memory. In fact, plasticity is at the heart of the &quot;population code&quot; used for representation by neuronal assemblies. 2. The third topic was loosely related to a specific representation in the CNS, namely that by so-called &quot;internal models&quot; that represent aspects of the CNS' peripheral environment. 3. It was argued that the above mechanisms of representation and operation are used not only by higher, e.g. cortical, CNS structures, but also by the spinal cord. These topics are here dealt with in turn, always with regard to the special question as to what extent forebrain mechanisms appear at brainstem and spinal cord levels. There is accumulating evidence that in fact the spinal cord uses ensemble processing, synaptic plasticity and internal models to represent and handle its external environment.
The author proposes three models for the future of psychiatry. The public health psychiatry model is rooted in psychiatry's participation in community mental health care for the past 50 years. It emphasizes ideological similarities between community mental health care and managed care. The clinical neuroscience model melds the specialties of neurology and psychiatry to form a clinical brain science, yielding the nonmedical care of mentally ill persons to nonmedical mental health professionals. In the primary care model, more intensive medical training would allow the psychiatrist to function either as a primary care physician or as a &quot;primary care specialist.&quot;
The central opioid system may have an important influence on memory processes. In view of this, the concentration of beta-endorphin-like immunoreactivity (beta-ELIR) in cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) was measured by a radioimmunoassay in rats trained in a passive avoidance procedure. The beta-ELIR in CSF was examined immediately, 2, 5, 10, and 30 min after the learning trial in which rats were exposed to footshock (0, 0.25, or 1.0 mA for 3 s). Avoidance latency and beta-ELIR in CSF were examined 24 and 120 h after the learning trial. The beta-ELIR in CSF was increased at 5 min after the learning trial in rats exposed to footshock of 0.25 mA. The beta-ELIR in CSF was elevated at 5 and 10 min, followed by a significant decrease at 30 min after the learning trial in rats exposed to a footshock of 1.0 mA. Thus, although an increase in beta-ELIR in CSF was not, the duration of the increase was, related to the shock intensity. Interestingly, a decrease followed the increase in beta-ELIR in CSF which was significant only in rats exposed to the high shock intensity. Avoidance latencies were enhanced in a shock intensity-dependent manner at both 24 and 120 h retention tests. No change in beta-ELIR in CSF was found during retention trials. The results suggest that behavioral manipulations alter beta-ELIR in CSF. An increase in beta-ELIR in CSF may be highly associated with stressful and emotional responses during behavioral training.


Dopamine (DA) released from dendrites of substantia nigra dopaminergic neurons potentially is in a position to modulate basal ganglia outputs from the substantia nigra pars reticulata (SNR) via stimulation of D1 receptors on the terminals of striatonigral afferents. The effects of endogenous DA release in the SNR were examined in rats using behavioral activation, multiunit activity of SNR neurons, and cortical EEG pattern as dependent measures. Unilateral infusion of amphetamine (AMPH) into SNR (10 micrograms/0.5 microliter; 5 min) produced a short-lasting behavioral activation that was blocked by coinfusion of the D1 DA receptor antagonist SCH 23390 (0.5 micrograms). Multiunit recordings of SNR neurons in anesthetized rats showed that AMPH, infused as above, produced a rapid decrease in SNR activity. This decrease was maximal (approximately 90%) during the first 10 min postinfusion, followed by a gradual return to baseline levels. Coinfusion of SCH 23390 blocked the AMPH-induced decrease in SNR activity, although by itself this drug produced a 40% decrease in activity. Cortical EEG acquired during the SNR infusions/recordings showed a short-duration change in pattern immediately after AMPH infusion. A relative shift in power from the lowest frequency interval determined (0.8-2.7 Hz) to the next higher frequency interval (2.7-6.8 Hz) was observed which could be prevented by coinfusion of SCH 23390. Thus, dendritically released DA can inhibit the activity of SNR neurons via local stimulation of D1 receptors. This effect is associated with a brief behavioral activation and EEG desynchronization.
Alkylphenol polyethoxylates and alkylphenols, such as 4-tertoctylphenol (OP), are environmental contaminants. Because these compounds are toxic to aquatic animals, we studied the effects of OP on splenocytes removed from male Fischer 344 rats or male Balb/c mice and cultured in vitro. Cell viability was assessed by trypan blue exclusion after 5 or 27 hr of culture. Culture with 0.08% ETOH (vehicle) or any dose of OP did not alter total cell number or the percentage of viable cells after 5 hr. Culture of cells with two different alkylphenol polyethoxylates for 5 hr resulted in the loss of all cells. The percentages of viable rat or mouse cells after 27 hr of culture were decreased significantly by 10(-12) M OP or greater concentrations. The actions of OP, dexamethasone (DEX), and 17 beta-estradiol on rat splenocytes were compared. Dexamethasone was more toxic than OP after 24 hr of culture; 17 beta-estradiol was not toxic. Dexamethasone and OP, but not 17 beta-estradiol, caused significant nuclear condensation after 3 hr of culture (acridine orange staining) or 4 hr of culture (propidium iodide staining). The toxicity of 10(-6) M OP, but not that of 10(-6) M DEX, was eliminated when mouse splenocytes were cultured in Ca2+ -free medium. Significantly more mouse splenocytes containing free 3'-OH DNA ends were detected by activated cell sorter analyses when the cells had been incubated for 4 hr with 10(-4) or 10(-6) M OP or 10(-6) M DEX. The results of these studies demonstrate that OP is toxic to cultured rat and mouse splenocytes and suggest that this toxic effect is exerted, at least partially, through Ca2+-dependent apoptosis.
Acute administration of the agricultural fungicide triadimefon produced a neurotoxic syndrome in rats characterized by increased motor activity, stereotyped behaviors, and altered monoamine metabolism. Triadimenol, a metabolite of triadimefon in mammals, plants, and soil, also increased motor activity in rodents. To test the hypothesis that triadimefon and triadimenol are indirect-acting dopamine agonists, the present studies examined their abilities to inhibit monoamine uptake, bind to the dopamine transporter, and stimulate dopamine efflux in rat brain tissue, in vitro. Both triazoles inhibited the uptake of dopamine in striatal synaptosomal preparations. Triadimefon was 100-fold less potent than GBR12909, a prototypical inhibitor of dopamine uptake (IC50 = 4.7 microM vs. 37.2 nM, respectively), and triadimenol was about three-fold less potent than triadimefon. Triadimefon also weakly inhibited the uptake of norepinephrine in cortical synaptosomes (IC50 = 22.4 microM), but neither compound blocked the uptake of serotonin in cortical synaptosomes (IC50s &gt; 100 microM). Triadimefon and triadimenol had similar affinity for [3H]mazindol binding sites on the dopamine transporter (IC50s approximately 1-1.5 microM, only two- to threefold greater than GBR12909). Neither triadimefon nor triadimenol (0.01-100 microM) increased basal efflux of [3H]DA that had been preloaded into striatal minces in vitro. An unexpected result was that GBR12909 (10 microM) increased basal efflux of [3H]DA by 71%, suggesting that this compound has DA releasing properties. These data suggest that increased synaptic concentrations of dopamine due to inhibition of dopamine uptake may play an important role in the neurobehavioral effects of triadimefon and triadimenol.
The spectral sensitivity of the common chimpanzee (Pan troglodytes) was measured with electroretinogram (ERG) flicker photometry. Chromatic adaptation conditions were used to establish the presence of S-, M- and L-cone pigments. Each of 26 chimpanzees showed substantial and approximately equivalent adaptational changes over the middle and long wavelengths implying an absence of any significant polymorphic variations in the M- and L-cone pigments. As inferred from ERG measurements, the S-cone pigment of the chimpanzee has a spectral peak of about 430 nm. Chimpanzee spectral sensitivity measurements were compared to those obtained from equivalently tested normal human trichromats. The spectral sensitivity of the two species is very similar, chimpanzees being slightly more sensitive to short wavelength lights and slightly less sensitive to long wavelength lights than human subjects. Curve-fitting analyses suggest that spectral filtering may be lower in the chimpanzee lens than it is in the human lens, and that the L/M cone ratio is lower in the chimpanzee.
We cloned mouse prolidase cDNA from a mouse liver cDNA library. Homology to human prolidase is 83.2% at the nucleotide level and 87.2% at the amino acid level. Northern blot analysis showed that while prolidase mRNA was transcribed in brain, heart, liver, and muscle, it was predominantly transcribed in kidney.
In freely-moving rats treated with a combination of reserpine (10 mg/kg, i.p.) and scopolamine (5 mg/kg, i.p.), neocortical low voltage fast activity (LVFA) associated with continuous multiunit activity (MUA) was abolished and replaced by 2-6 Hz large irregular slow activity (LISA) above 1.5 mV associated with a burst-suppression pattern of MUA. Administration of the monoamine oxidase inhibitor pargyline (50-100 mg/kg, i.p.) completely suppressed 2-6 Hz LISA and restored normal-appearing LVFA and continuous MUA. The 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT) receptor agonists quipazine (0.5-20 mg/kg, i.p.), (+/-)-DOI (0.1-5 mg/kg, s.c.), and buspirone (0.1-10 mg/kg, i.p.), but not 8-hydroxy-2-(di-n-propylamine) tetraline (8-OH-DPAT, 0.05-0.8 mg/kg, s.c.) and RU 24969 (1-30 mg/kg, i.p.), produced a partial suppression of 2-6 Hz LISA and restored some lower voltage activity (&lt; 1 mV) above 6 Hz associated with continuous MUA. However, as opposed to pargyline, no receptor agonist tested restored continuous, normal-appearing LVFA. Even though agonists at 5-HT receptors can produce some activation of neocortical slow wave activity after combined cholinergic and serotonergic blockade, this effect is not equivalent to that observed after restoration of endogenous 5-HT transmission.
Reactive changes in macrophages/microglia and astrocytes were evaluated following spinal cord injury in normal mice of the C57BL/6J strain and in mice carrying a mutation (WldS) which delays the onset of Wallerian degeneration in damaged axons. Crush injuries were produced at the T8 level by using an extradural approach; animals were allowed to survive for 2 days to 12 weeks, and spinal cords were prepared for immunocytochemistry using antibodies against Mac1 and glial fibrillary acidid protein (GFAP). In normal mice, Mac1-positive macrophages accumulated at the injury site by 4 days and immunostaining of these cells peaked at 6-8 days. Cells in the gray matter near the crush site and in the ascending dorsal column also exhibited increased Mac1 staining that was prominent at 1 week and remained high at 2-4 weeks. In mice carrying the WldS mutation, the accumulation of macrophages at the injury site and the increase in immunostaining of these cells were delayed, as were the increases in immunostaining in the gray matter and dorsal columns. Both normal and mutant mice exhibited pronounced increases in glial fibrillary acidic protein immunostaining at the edge of the crush site and for some distance both rostral and caudal to the injury; increased immunostaining was also prominent along the ascending dorsal columns. The center of the crush site, which contained connective tissue, remained completely unstained for GFAP. In normal mice, immunostaining for GFAP reached a peak at 1 week postinjury and then declined. In mice carrying the WldS mutation, increases in GFAP immunostaining did not reach a peak until 2-3 weeks postinjury. These results indicate that activation of macrophages, microglia, and astrocytes is delayed and prolonged in mice carrying the WldS mutation.
Warming of a brain area in a behaving rat may reflect a local increase in neuronal activity, or the heat may be supplied from peripheral organs (muscles) via the arterial blood. To investigate the role of neuronal activity, brain temperature was measured in the hippocampus of anaesthetized rats in response to intense and prolonged stimulation of the perforant path. Repetitive discharge induced by such stimulation failed to raise dorsal hippocampal temperature by more than 0.6 degree C, even if cells discharged throughout the train. The widespread neuronal activity during paradoxical sleep was equally ineffective (increases &lt; 0.3 degree C). Thus, most of the heat producing an increase in brain temperature during behaviour probably arises from peripheral organs.
Although glutathione (GSH) is considered an important antioxidant in the brain, its cellular localization is unclear. In general, neurones are supposed to contain considerably less GSH than astrocytes. We determined biochemically and immunocytochemically the presence of GSH in cultured neurones and astrocytes from the cortex, mesencephalon and striatum. Cortical neurones contained less GSH than astrocytes whereas GSH levels in neurones from the striatum and mesencephalon were comparable to those in astrocytes. Immunocytochemistry showed significant GSH staining in neurones. Fluorescent double staining of GSH and tyrosine hydroxylase revealed that dopaminergic neurones also contained GSH, although apparently at a lower level than other mesencephalic neurones.
Interleukin-1 beta-converting enzyme (ICE), involved in the maturation process of interleukin-1 beta (IL-1 beta, is a homologue of ced-3, a protease required for programmed cell death in Caenorhabditis elegans. Over-expression of ICE induces programmed cell death in certain mammalian cell types, whereas in neurones of the central nervous system such a role has yet to be established. We show that ICE mRNA expression is increased 4-fold in the cerebellum of homozygous staggerer mice, where IL-1 beta mRNA is overexpressed and programmed neuronal cell death occurs. Intraperitoneal injection of endotoxin (LPS) induced a strong phasic increase in IL mRNA levels in the cerebellum, whereas the ICE mRNA level increased only moderately. Involvement of ICE in neuronal cell death in the cerebellum of staggerer mice is suspected.
Transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) was used to investigate the delays in visual processing time produced by changes in luminance. By administering a magnetic pulse over the occipital pole 80-140 ms after the onset of visual stimuli, we could suppress perception of a four-digit number within a 30 ms time window. Commensurate with previous studies of visual processing latencies, a drop in luminance from 3.52 logTd to 2.61 logTd delayed the peak of the suppression window by 8.9 ms, while a further drop from 2.61 logTD to 1.75 logTd delayed the peak by an additional 15.4 ms. This study validates the use of TMS as a psychophysical tool.
Our study was designed to identify the underlying symptomatologic structure common to major psychoses as a preliminary step for a phenotype definition. We investigated 1,004 inpatients affected by mood disorders or the schizophrenia spectrum (DSM-III-R) using the OPCRIT checklist (operational criteria checklist for psychotic illness). Symptomatologic structure was extracted by factor analytic techniques and factor scores were first obtained on 500 subjects. A CFA (confirmatory factor analysis) was then conducted on the remaining 504 subjects to evaluate fitness of the model. We identified four factors: excitement, depression, disorganization, and delusion. These factors accounted for 54.6% of the total variance of the OPCRIT checklist symptomatologic subset of 38 items. CFA indices showed a good fit for the model. We identified symptomatologic structures common to major psychoses. The factors identified were confirmed in an independent sample. Two of these symptomatologic structures are partially overlapping with categorical diagnoses (excitement and depression), and two constitute independent psychopathologic traits (delusion and disorganization). The use of &quot;factor-derived scores&quot; in genetic research may add a dimensional definition to the diagnostic subdivision of major psychoses.
Although expression of the Fos family of transcription factors is induced by environmental stimuli that trigger adaptive neuronal response, evidence that Fos family members mediate these responses is lacking. To address this issue, mice were generated with an inactivating mutation in the fosB gene. fosB mutant mice are profoundly deficient in their ability to nurture young animals but are normal with respect to other cognitive and sensory functions. The nurturing defect is likely due to the absence of FosB in the preoptic area, a region of the hypothalamus that is critical for nurturing. These observations suggest that a transcription factor controls a complex behavior by regulating a specific neuronal circuit and indicate that nurturing in mammals has a genetic component.
The vertebrate nervous system is characterized by ensheathment of axons with myelin, a multilamellar membrane greatly enriched in the galactolipid galactocerebroside (GalC) and its sulfated derivative sulfatide. We have generated mice lacking the enzyme UDP-galactose:ceramide galactosyltransferase (CGT), which is required for GalC synthesis. CGT-deficient mice do not synthesize GalC or sulfatide but surprisingly form myelin containing glucocerebroside, a lipid not previously identified in myelin. Microscopic and morphometric analyses revealed myelin of normal ultrastructural appearance, except for slightly thinner sheaths in the ventral region of the spinal cord. Nevertheless, these mice exhibit severe generalized tremoring and mild ataxia, and electrophysiological analysis showed conduction deficits consistent with reduced insulative capacity of the myelin sheath. Moreover, with age, CGT-deficient mice develop progressive hindlimb paralysis and extensive vacuolation of the ventral region of the spinal cord. These results indicate that GalC and sulfatide play important roles in myelin function and stability.
Nicotinic acetylcholine receptors formed from combinations of alpha3, beta2, beta4, and alpha5 subunits are found in chicken ciliary ganglion neurons and some human neuroblastoma cell lines. We studied the co-expression of various combinations of cloned human alpha3, beta2, beta4, and alpha5 subunits in Xenopus oocytes. Expression on the surface membrane was found only for combinations of alpha3beta2, alpha3beta4, alpha3beta2alpha5, and alpha3beta4alpha5 subunits but not for other combinations of one, two, or three of these subunits. alpha5 subunits assembled inside the oocyte with beta2 but not with alpha3 subunits or other alpha5 subunits. alpha5 subunits coassembled very efficiently with alpha3beta2 or alpha3beta4 combinations. The presence of alpha5 subunits had very little effect on the binding affinities for epibatidine of receptors containing also alpha3 and beta2 or alpha3 and beta4 subunits. The presence of alpha5 subunits increased the rate of desensitization of both receptors containing also alpha3 and beta2 or alpha3 and beta4 subunits. In the case of receptors containing alpha3 and beta4 subunits, the addition of alpha5 subunits had little effect on the responses to acetylcholine or nicotine. However, in the case of receptors containing alpha3 and beta2 subunits, the addition of alpha5 subunits reduced the EC50 for acetylcholine from 28 to 0.5 microM and the EC50 for nicotine from 6.8 to 1.9 microM, while increasing the efficacy of nicotine from 50% on alpha3beta2 receptors to 100% on alpha3beta2alpha5 receptors. Both alpha3beta2 and alpha3beta2alpha5 receptors expressed in oocytes sedimented at the same 11 S value as native alpha3-containing receptors from the human neuroblastoma cell line SH-SY5Y. In the receptors from the neuroblastoma alpha3, beta2, and alpha5 subunits were co-assembled, and 56% of the receptor subtypes containing alpha3 subunits also contained beta2 subunits. The beta2 subunit-containing receptors from SH-SY5Y cells exhibited the high affinity for epibatidine characteristic of receptors formed from alpha3 and beta2 or alpha3, beta2, and alpha5 subunits rather than the low affinity exhibited by receptors formed from alpha3 and beta4 or alpha3, beta4, and alpha5 subunits. Nicotine, like the structurally similar toxin epibatidine, also distinguishes by binding affinity two subtypes of receptors containing alpha3 subunits in SH-SY5Y cells. The affinities of alpha3beta2 receptors expressed in oocytes were similar to the affinities of native alpha3 containing receptors from SH-SY5Y cells for acetylcholine, cytisine, and 1,1-dimethyl-4-phenylpiperazinium.
L1 is a neural cell adhesion molecule that has been shown to help guide nascent axons to their targets. This guidance is based on specific interactions of L1 with its binding partners and is likely to involve signaling cascades that alter cytoskeletal elements in response to these binding events. We have examined the phosphorylation of L1 and the role it may have in L1-directed neurite outgrowth. Cytosolic extracts from nerve growth factor-stimulated PC12 cells were fractionated by anion-exchange chromatography, and an activity was found that phosphorylated the cytoplasmic domain of L1. This activity was then assayed using a battery of L1-derived synthetic peptides. Based on these peptide assays and sequencing of radiolabeled L1 proteolytic fragments, the phosphorylation site was determined to be Ser1152. Western blot analysis demonstrated that the L1 kinase activity from PC12 cells that phosphorylated this site was co-eluted with the S6 kinase, p90(rsk). Moreover, S6 kinase activity and p90(rsk) immunoreactivity co-immunoprecipitate with L1 from brain, and metabolic labeling studies have demonstrated that Ser1152 is phosphorylated in vivo in the developing rat brain. The phosphorylation site is located in a region of high conservation between mammalian L1 sequences as well as L1-related molecules in vertebrates from fish to birds. We performed studies to investigate the functional significance of this phosphorylation. Neurons were loaded with peptides that encompass the phosphorylation site, as well as the flanking regions, and their effects on neurite outgrowth were observed. The peptides, which include Ser1152, inhibit neurite outgrowth on L1 but not on a control substrate, laminin. A nonphosphorylatable peptide carrying a Ser to Ala mutation did not affect neurite outgrowth on either substrate. These data demonstrate that the membrane-proximal 15 amino acids of the cytoplasmic domain of L1 are important for neurite outgrowth on L1, and the interactions it mediates may be regulated by phosphorylation of Ser1152.
Several recent experiments using neocortical transplantation paradigms indicated that embryonic neurons grafted in a heterotopic locus retain development characteristics corresponding to their site of origin. In the present study, limited portions of lateral (lateral-to-lateral) or medial (medial-to-lateral) sectors of embryonic (E16) frontal cortex were grafted into the lateral frontal cortex of newborn rats. A retrograde tracer was injected 3-4 months later into the dorsomedial or ventrolateral sectors of the host caudate-putamen (CPU). The results indicate that the mediolateral arrangement of striatal projection developed by lateral-to-lateral transplants is virtually identical to that found in intact rats. A very weak proportion of the transplanted cells distribute fibers to the dorsomedial sector of the CPU. In marked contrast, the proportion of efferents from medial-to-lateral transplants projecting to the dorsomedial CPU is by far larger than the one directed to the ventrolateral CPU. Our findings provide evidence that even within one single neocortical area (the frontal neocortex) some degree of prespecification (medial versus lateral patterns of efferent projections) is already present at E16.
The selective kappa agonists U50488 (10 mg/kg, i.p.) and spiradoline (1 mg/kg, i.p.) attenuated the locomotor activating effects of a morphine challenge (5 mg/kg, i.p.) administered 19 h later in rats. This antagonism of morphine by a kappa agonist was reversed by the selective kappa antagonist, norbinaltorphimine (10 mg/kg, s.c.). Furthermore, the kappa opioid antagonism of morphine was enhanced by prior morphine exposure (2 doses of 30 mg/kg, i.p. administered once a day for 2 days). The present data suggest that kappa-micro opioid interactions may occur over time periods that exceed the acute durations of drug actions.
Complete spinal cord gaps in adult rats were bridged with multiple intercostal nerve grafts that redirected specific pathways from white to gray matter. The grafted area was stabilized with fibrin glue containing acidic fibroblast growth factor and by compressive wiring of posterior spinal processes. Hind limb function improved progressively during the first 6 months, as assessed by two scoring systems. The corticospinal tract regenerated through the grafted area to the lumbar enlargement, as did several bulbospinal pathways. These data suggest a possible repair strategy for spinal cord injury.
B and T lymphocytes undergoing apoptosis in response to anti-immunoglobulin M antibodies and dexamethasone, respectively, were found to have increased amounts of messenger RNA for the inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate receptor (IP3R) and increased amounts of IP3R protein. Immunohistochemical analysis revealed that the augmented receptor population was localized to the plasma membrane. Type 3 IP3R (IP3R3) was selectively increased during apoptosis, with no enhancement of type 1 IP3R (IP3R1). Expression of IP3R3 antisense constructs in S49 T cells blocked dexamethasone-induced apoptosis, whereas IP3R3 sense, IP3R1 sense, or IP3R1 antisense control constructs did not block cell death. Thus, the increases in IP3R3 may be causally related to apoptosis.
We successfully isolated a rat cDNA clone encoding a novel EF hand protein with a molecular weight of about 17 kDa and designated this gene iba1 (ionized calcium binding adapter molecule 1). The genomic copy of the iba1 gene was located within a segment of the major histocompatibility complex class III region between the Bat2 and TNF alpha genes. The iba1 gene was shown to be highly expressed in testis and spleen, but weakly expressed in brain, lung, and kidney. Among brain cells, the iba1 gene was specifically expressed in microglia. A screening of hemopoietic cell lines showed that the Iba1 protein was clearly expressed in monoblastic cell lines but only very weakly expressed in myeloid cell lines. Iba1 protein is therefore suggested to act as an adapter molecule, mediating calcium signals that may function in a monocytic lineage including microglia.

The primate temporal cortex has been demonstrated to play an important role in visual memory and pattern recognition. It is of particular interest to investigate whether activity-dependent modification of synaptic efficacy, a presumptive mechanism for learning and memory, is present in this cortical region. Here we address this issue by examining the induction of synaptic plasticity in surgically resected human inferior and middle temporal cortex. The results show that synaptic strength in the human temporal cortex could undergo bidirectional modifications, depending on the pattern of conditioning stimulation. High frequency stimulation (100 or 40 Hz) in layer IV induced long-term potentiation (LTP) of both intracellular excitatory postsynaptic potentials and evoked field potentials in layers II/III. The LTP induced by 100 Hz tetanus was blocked by 50-100 microM DL-2-amino-5-phosphonovaleric acid, suggesting that N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors were responsible for its induction. Long-term depression (LTD) was elicited by prolonged low frequency stimulation (1 Hz, 15 min). It was reduced, but not completely blocked, by DL-2-amino-5-phosphonovaleric acid, implying that some other mechanisms in addition to N-methyl-DL-aspartate receptors were involved in LTD induction. LTD was input-specific, i.e., low frequency stimulation of one pathway produced LTD of synaptic transmission in that pathway only. Finally, the LTP and LTD could reverse each other, suggesting that they can act cooperatively to modify the functional state of cortical network. These results suggest that LTP and LTD are possible mechanisms for the visual memory and pattern recognition functions performed in the human temporal cortex.
Direct current-generated EM fields modulated evoked potentials recorded from hippocampal slices. Both the synaptic efficiency represented by the slope of EPSP and the number of activated pyramidal cells represented by the population spike were modified by EM fields. While the weak EM fields (2-3 mT) exerted a biphasic effect observed as a transient small depression followed by a long-lasting amplification of the potentials, stronger EM fields (8-10 mT) depressed these potentials. This depression could be partially reversed by increasing the strength of the stimulation. It is suggested that EM-induced fluctuations in the intracellular Ca2+ concentration are responsible for the observed effect.
Fixed preparations of proteolipid protein (PLP)-null mouse spinal cord show myelin sheaths which in some regions consist of typical alternating major dense lines (MDLs) and intermediate lines (ILs) with a repeat period of 10.3 nm. More commonly, the lamellar structure consists of what appears to be a single population of dense lines, having a repeat period of 5.2 nm. These apparently equivalent lines are, however, sometimes distinguishable as MDLs or ILs based on continuity with cytoplasmic or extracellular regions. Focal separations of lamellae at the intermediate line are common. MDLs too may be replaced focally by cytoplasmic pockets, sometimes in the same quadrant over several lamellae, resembling Schmidt-Lanterman clefts. Occasional densities reminiscent of the &quot;radial component&quot; can be seen. Otherwise, this structure, which is prominent in wild-type myelin, is conspicuously absent. Redundant folding of some lamellae but not others may occur in the same sheath. These observations conform to those made previously on the isolated myelin segments that occur in the myelin-deficient rat central nervous system (CNS), which also lacks PLP. Thus, a compact lamellar structure can be seen in fixed PLP-null myelin, but defects in the apposition of both the extracellular and the cytoplasmic surfaces of the myelin membranes are common. The abnormalities seen suggest a lack of firm intermembrane bonding, resulting in structural instability. PLP-null myelin may therefore be more susceptible than normal myelin to disruption by mechanical or osmotic stresses. Although PLP is not essential for the formation of either major dense lines or intermediate lines, it may play a role in stabilizing the compact structure.
The time of birth of subpopulations of dorsal root ganglion (DRG) neurons was studied with immunohistochemistry for 5-bromodeoxyuridine (BrdU). Pregnant rats were injected with BrdU i.p. to label the neurons on one of the embryonic days (E) E11-E16. When they were adults, the rats were given injections of Fluoro-Gold (FG) into the gracile nucleus to identify DRG neurons projecting to this structure. Following a 5 day survival period, the animals were perfused with aldehyde fixative. Sections from the L3-L5 DRGs were processed for BrdU immunohistochemistry followed by either immunostaining for the antineurofilament antibody RT97, as marker of the light neuronal subpopulation, or histochemical staining for the B4 isolectin from Griffonia simplicifolia I, as marker of the small dark subpopulation. The results indicated that the DRG neurons were generated between E12 and E16. The RT97+ neurons were generated on E12-E15, with a peak at E13. FG+ neurons, the majority of which were RT97+, were also generated on E12-E15. The B4+ neurons were generated on E13-E16, with a peak around E14. The overall pattern of neurogenesis of the DRG neurons showed that the RT97+ neurons were produced prior to the B4+ neurons. These findings are in agreement with earlier observations that the large DRG neurons are generated earlier than the small dark neurons. Our findings also suggest the existence of a third neuronal subpopulation that might be produced at the latest period of DRG neurogenesis at E15-E16.
Research into schizophrenia over the latest years has led to many new investigations and results, and a new hypothesis has suggested a defect in the neurointegrative function of the central nervous system. Changes in the cytoarchitecture of the hippocampus and the entorhinal cortex points towards a dysfunction of temporo-limbic structures, probably a result of embryogenesis, and as a consequence dysfunction of the prefrontal cortex arises. The hypothesis of the defect filter function, which has been placed in the thalamus, explains how the schizophrenic person cannot protect himself against various bombardments of stimuli. This leads to a deficiency in information processing, known as defective automatic categorisation. The long-term memory, especially the semantic memory with common knowledge about the world, is affected, which can be of importance to the schizophrenic delusions. The discoveries suggest a dysfunction of the cortico-striato-thalamo-cortical circuit.
The preparation of a series of N-heteroarylpiperidine ether-based human NK1 antagonists is described. Two of the compounds 3-[-(2S,3S)-3-(((3,5-bis(trifluoromethyl)phenyl)methyl)oxy)- 2-phenylpiperidino}methyl]-1,2,4-triazole (11) and 5-[(2S,3S)-3-(((3,5-bis(trifluoromethyl)-phenyl)methyl)oxy)-2- phenylpiperidino}methyl]-3-oxo-1,2,4-triazolone (12)), in particular, are orally bioavailable and exhibited significant improvements in potency, both in vitro and in vivo, over the lead (carboxamidomethyl)piperidine ether 1. Rat liver microsome studies on a selected number of compounds from this series show the triazolone heterocycle to be considerably more stable than the others. Furthermore, both 11 and 12 have been profiled in a number of assays that may be predictive of the clinical utility of substance P antagonists.
Activator protein 1 (AP-1) and nuclear factor kappa B (NF-kappa B) represent mammalian transcription factors which bind to distinct enhancer motifs. The specific mu-receptor opioid agonist, Tyr, D-Ala2, Gly, N-Me-Phe4, Gly-ol5 (DAMGO), was found to increase AP-1 and NF-kappa B activity in primary cultures of neurons from rat cerebral cortex. Acute (2 h, 4 h) and long-term (72 h) treatment with DAMGO time-dependently increased the DNA-binding activity of both AP-1 and NF-kappa B and the stimulation could be abolished or inhibited by concurrent incubation with naloxone. However, acute naloxone-precipitated withdrawal did not significantly change AP-1 or NF-kappa B activity. These results indicate a mu-opioid receptor-related co-induction of AP-1 and NF-kappa B transcription factors in cultured cortical neurons.
The systemic administration of a non-convulsant dose of N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA; 75 mg/kg i.p.), which was associated with motor activation, induced a regional c-fos mRNA expression in the mouse brain. The NMDA-induced c-fos mRNA expression was predominant in the dentate gyrus and in the medial mammillary nucleus and less pronounced in other hippocampal areas, cortical areas, bed nucleus of the stria terminalis and posterior amygdaloid nuclei. It is suggested that the hippocampus and/or the extended amygdala might be involved in the previously hypothesized dopamine-independent NMDA-mediated motor activation mechanism. No increase in c-fos mRNA expression was observed 21 h after reserpine treatment (5 mg/kg s.c.). However, reserpinization induced a significant potentiation of the NMDA-induced c-fos mRNA expression. These results show the existence of a strong and selective amine-dependent modulation of NMDA neurotransmission in the brain.
The interaction between GABA (gamma-aminobutyric acid) and cannabinoids in the globus pallidus was investigated by evaluating the effects of delta 9-tetrahydrocannabinol on [3H]GABA uptake into slices of rat globus pallidus. delta 9-Tetrahydrocannabinol caused a concentration-dependent decrease in GABA uptake (51% decrease at 100 microM delta 9-tetrahydrocannabinol, IC50 = 18.95 microM). This effect was reversed in a concentration-dependent manner (IC50 = 11.9 microM) by the cannabinoid receptor antagonist SR 141716A (N-(piperidin-1-yl-)5-(4-chlorophenyl)-1-(2,4-dichlorophenyl)-4-me thyl-1 H-pyrazole-3-arboxiamidehydrochloride. SR 141716A alone did not affect GABA uptake. These results show that cannabinoid receptor activation reduces GABA uptake in the globus pallidus.
The question of whether nicotine, the neuroactive compound of tobacco, is addictive has been open to considerable scientific and public discussion. Although it can serve as a positive reinforcer in several animal species, including man, nicotine is thought to be a weak reinforcer in comparison with addictive drugs such as cocaine and heroin, and has been argued to be habit forming but not addictive. Here we report that intravenous nicotine in the rat, at doses known to maintain self-administration, stimulates local energy metabolism, as measured by 2-deoxyglucose autoradiography, and dopamine transmission, as estimated by brain microdialysis, in the shell of the nucleus accumbens. These neurochemical and metabolic effects are qualitatively similar to those of other drugs, such as cocaine, amphetamine and morphine, which have strong addictive properties. Our results provide functional and neurochemical evidence that there are specific neurobiological commonalities between nicotine and addictive drugs.
Maitotoxin (MTX) is a highly potent marine toxin that activates both voltage-sensitive and receptor-operated calcium channels in the plasma membrane. This results in calcium overload that rapidly leads to cell death. We now report that maitotoxin (0.1-1 nM) induces calpain activation in both SH-SY5Y neuroblastoma cells and fetal rat cerebrocortical cultures. MTX-induced calpain activation was confirmed by the presence of autolytic fragmentation of both subunits of calpain. Secondly, the formation of calpain-produced alpha-spectrin breakdown products (150 and 145 kDa) was observed. We were also able to detect intracellular hydrolysis of a peptide substrate (succinyl-Leu-Leu-Val-Tyr-7-amido-4-methylcoumarin) by activated calpain in MTX-treated cells. Calpain inhibitors (calpain inhibitor I, MDL28170 and PD150606) inhibited spectrin breakdown and SLLVY-AMC hydrolysis in MTX-treated SY5Y cells. Our results suggest that (i) calpain is activated as a result of the maitotoxin-induced calcium influx; and (ii) coupling with the in situ calpain assays, maitotoxin would be a useful tool in investigating the physiologic and pathophysiologic roles of calpain in neuronal cells.
We measured adrenal gland volume and both baseline and stimulated pituitary and adrenal cortical hormones in 35 unmedicated, major depressives and 35 individually matched normal control subjects. Mean adrenal volume in the depressives was significantly larger, by about 38%, than the adrenal volume of their matched controls. Basal plasma adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH)1-39 was significantly lower, and basal plasma cortisol was significantly higher, in the patients. In contrast, basal plasma ACTH determined by radioimmunoassay (RIA) was not significantly different between the two groups. The ACTH response to ovine corticotropin-releasing hormone (oCRH), whether measured specifically as ACTH1-39 or by the less-specific RIA, was highly significantly lower in the depressives than in the controls. However, neither the cortisol response to oCRH nor its response to low-dose ACTH 1-24 differed significantly between groups. In both groups of subjects, correlations between adrenal gland volume and all the hormone measures were low, and none represented more than 4% shared variance. In the patients, adrenal volume did not correlate significantly with duration of the present episode, lifetime number of episodes, melancholic subtype, Hamilton Depression Scale total score, or the Hamilton suicidality item. However, adrenal volume was significantly positively related to the somatization factor of the Hamilton scale, which was almost totally accounted for by the specific items of somatic symptoms and somatic anxiety.
We tested whether cholinergic denervation of the hippocampus of young rats would result in an enhancement of CA1 pyramidal cell responsiveness to nicotine. Electrolytic lesions of the medial septal area were performed in young male Fisher 344 rats. One month later the rats were anesthetized with pentobarbital and nicotine was locally applied to CA1 pyramidal neurons using pressure microejection. The dose of nicotine required to excite the pyramidal neurons was significantly lower for cells recorded from rats with septal lesions. However, no changes in hippocampal cytisine or alpha-bungarotoxin binding were found.
Activity within the cat paraventricular hypothalamus (PVH) during sleep and waking states was measured by quantifying intrinsic tissue reflectivity. A fiber optic probe consisting of a 1.0 mm coherent image conduit, surrounded by plastic fibers which conducted 660 nm source light, was attached to a charge-coupled device camera, and positioned over the PVH in five cats. Electrodes for assessing state variables, including electroencephalographic activity, eye movement, and somatic muscle tone were also placed. After surgical recovery, reflected light intensity was measured continuously at 2.5 Hz during spontaneously varying sleep/waking states. Sequential state transitions from active waking to quiet waking, quiet sleep and active sleep were accompanied by progressively increased levels of PVH activity. Overall activity was highest during active sleep, and decreased markedly upon awakening. Moment-to-moment activity oscillated in the 0-0.1 Hz range, especially during active sleep and active waking; this oscillation diminished during quiet sleep. Distinct sub-regions of enhanced or diminished activity emerged within the imaged area in a state-dependent manner. We conclude that PVH activity changes with behavioral state in a regionally specific manner, and that overall activity increases during quiet sleep, and is even more enhanced in active sleep. PVH activation could be expected to stimulate pituitary release of adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH) and affect input to autonomic regulatory sites. Since ACTH and corticotropin releasing factor elicit arousal, and since the PVH projects to other brain areas which modulate state, we speculate that the PVH plays a role in shaping characteristics of sleep/waking states.
Dextromethorphan, a non-competitive antagonist of N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA) receptor, is one of the most widely used non-opioid cough suppressants, and it is generally considered to be a safe drug. In this study, we have examined whether dextromethorphan is neurotoxic to rat cerebrocortical neurons. Induction of heat shock protein HSP-70, an indicator of cellular stress, was observed in the posterior cingulate and retrosplenial cortex of rat brain after a single administration of dextromethorphan (75 mg/kg). Furthermore, administration of dextromethorphan (75 mg/kg) caused vacuolization in the same regions. These results suggest that high doses of dextromethorphan could cause neuronal injury in the cerebrocortical neurons.
A genomic interval at 75C1,2 is required for programmed cell death in Drosophila. We identified a new activator of apoptosis, grim, which maps between two previously identified cell death genes in this region reaper (rpr) and head involution defective (hid). Expression of grim RNA coincided with the onset of programmed cell death at all stages of embryonic development, whereas ectopic induction of grim triggered extensive apoptosis in both transgenic animals and in cell culture. Cell killing by grim was blocked by coexpression of p35, a viral product that inactivates ICE-like proteases, and did not require the functions of rpr or hid. The predicted grim protein shares an amino-terminal motif in common with rpr. However, grim was sufficient to elicit apoptosis in at least one context, where rpr was not. The grim gene product might thus function in a parallel circuit of cell death signaling that ultimately activates a common set of downstream apoptotic effectors.
Chemokines (pro-inflammatory chemoattractant cytokines) are expressed in pathological conditions of the central nervous system (CNS). Previous studies suggested that the CNS is relatively resistant to leukocyte diapedesis after chemokine injection, leaving their functional role unresolved. The CNS function of N51/KC, a neutrophil-selective chemokine, was addressed by expressing N51/KC under control of the myelin basic protein (MBP) promoter in transgenic (tg) mice (MBP-N51/KC mice). CNS-specific N51/KC expression produced remarkable neutrophil infiltration into perivascular, meningeal, and parenchymal sites, demonstrating that this chemokine exerts the multiple functions in vivo required to recruit leukocytes into the CNS. MBP-N5 1/KC mice represent an incisive model for the molecular dissection of neutrophil entry into the CNS. Unexpectedly, MBP-N51/KC mice developed a neurological syndrome of pronounced postural instability and rigidity at high frequency beginning at 40 days of age, well after peak chemokine expression. 68/182 mice in one tg fine were found dead before one year of age, with prominent neurological symptoms premortem in 26 (38%). Florid microglial activation and blood-brain barrier disruption without dysmyelination were the major neuropathological alterations. Late-onset neurological symptoms in MBP-N51/KC mice may indicate unanticipated consequences of CNS chemokine expression.

The shell of the nucleus accumbens received a dense serotonergic innervation and contains abundant gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA)-immunoreactive neurons. Moreover, serotonin (5-hydroxytryptamine: 5-HT) and GABA have been implicated in a variety of common motivational and motor-related functions partially ascribed in this brain area. We used immunoelectron microscopy of antisera directed against 5-HT and GABA in the same section of tissue to examine whether there were cellular substrates that might indicate more specific sites for functional interactions involving these transmitters in the shell region of the rat nucleus accumbens. Immunogold-silver labeling for GABA was localized to perikarya, dendrites, axons and axon terminals, whereas immunoperoxidase labeling for 5-HT was restricted to axons and axon terminals. Approximately half (187/366) of the 5-HT-immunoreactive axon terminals apposed or formed synaptic junctions with postsynaptic neurons. These junctions were mainly of the symmetric-type (83/187) characteristic of inhibitory transmitters, and were equally prevalent on dendrites with and without detectable gold-silver labeling for GABA. Of the 187 5-HT-labeled axon terminals with recognized synaptic contacts, 36% also showed convergence on a common dendrite with a GABA-labeled axon terminal. In addition, 5-HT- and GABA-immunoreactive axon terminals were commonly (83/366) identified in direct apposition to one another. Within a single plane of section, 41% of the apposed GABA-immunoreactive axon terminals formed symmetric-type junctions with dendrites or somata, whereas, the apposed 5-HT-labeled axon terminals rarely showed postsynaptic contacts. These results indicate that 5-HT-containing axon terminals may postsynaptically inhibit GABAergic neurons and their targets within the shell of the rat nucleus accumbens. Additionally, our results strongly suggest that, in this brain region, appositions between 5-HT and GABA axons and axon terminals may facilitate presynaptic interactions between these transmitter systems.
During development, axons of the mammalian cerebral cortex show a high degree of selectivity in their growth into specific regions of the central nervous system (CNS). A number of studies have shown that growing axons are guided by permissive or inhibitory membrane-bound molecules. Cryostat sections of the developing brain provide a useful assay to investigate possible membrane-bound guidance cues because such cues are retained in their normal in situ locations in specific regions of the CNS. Moreover, cryostat sections can also be subjected to various treatments that affect membrane-bound molecules. Therefore, to determine the ability of such cues to regulate the growth and guidance of cortical neurites into specific brain regions at different stages of development, we used an in vitro assay system in which explants from newborn hamster cortex were plated onto various regions of cryostat sections from developing and adult hamster brain. Neurite outgrowth from cortical explants onto the cryostat sections was visualized with a fluorescent vital dye. Results showed first that cortical neurites grew robustly on neonatal cryostat sections but only sparsely on sections from adult hamster. Second, cortical neurites grew preferentially on regions of the neonatal sections such as the cortex, basal ganglia, brainstem, thalamus, and colliculus, which are either pathways or targets for cortical axons in vivo. In contrast, cortical neurites avoided growing on the cerebellum and olfactory bulb, which are neither targets nor pathways for cortical neurites in vivo. Results also showed that cortical neurites extending onto cortical regions of neonatal sections preferred to grow along the radial axis of the cortex. Finally, heat treatment of the neonatal sections drastically reduced cortical neurite outgrowth. Taken together, these results suggest that the growth and guidance of cortical neurites is influenced by substrate-bound, developmentally regulated, heat-sensitive guidance cues preserved in the cryostat sections.
1. Intracellular recordings were obtained from seventy-two magnocellular neurosecretory cells (MNCs) in superfused explants of rat hypothalamus. The current underlying the after-hyperpolarization (IAHP) following spike-evoked trains of action potentials was characterized using the hybrid-clamp technique. The activity-dependent requirements for the genesis of the AHP were determined. The functional role of the conductance was investigated using saturating concentrations (50-300 nM) of apamin, a selective blocker of the AHP in MNCs. 2. IAHP was reversibly abolished by the removal of extracellular Ca2+. The amplitude of IAHP varied linearly as a function of voltage and reversed at -100 +/- 3 mV in 3 mM external K+. Changes in the concentration of extracellular K+ resulted in shifts of the reversal potential consistent with Nernst equation predictions for a K+-selective conductance. 3. Action potentials triggered by brief depolarizing pulses elicited an AHP during trains evoked at frequencies &gt; 1 Hz. Onset of the AHP progressed exponentially, reaching a maximum after the first fifteen to twenty impulses. The steady-state amplitude of the AHP increased logarithmically between 1 and 20 Hz. 4. Switching to voltage clamp during periods of continuous cell activity (firing rate &gt; 4 Hz) confirmed the presence of an apamin-sensitive Ca2(+)-dependent K+ current. 5. Application of apamin produced a threefold increase in the mean firing rate of spontaneously active cells, but was without effect when applied to silent cells (firing rate &lt; 0.5 Hz). 6. Apamin did not affect the ability of MNCs to fire in a phasic manner but caused a dramatic increase in the mean intraburst firing rate. Moreover, inhibition of IAHP by apamin strongly attenuated spike accommodation normally seen at the onset of phasic bursts. 7. While apamin did not enhance the amplitude of depolarizing after-potentials following single spikes, post-train plateau potentials and associated after-discharges were enhanced. 8. The possible consequences of IAHP modulation are discussed in the context of the regulation of firing rate and pattern in MNCs.
Oncogenic Ras transforms cells through the activation of multiple downstream pathways mediated by separate effector molecules, one of which is Raf. Here we report the identification of a second ras-binding protein that can induce cellular transformation in parallel with activation of the Raf/mitogen-activated protein kinase cascade. The Ral guanine nucleotide dissociation stimulator (RalGDS) was isolated from a screen for Ras-binding proteins that specifically interact with a Ras effector-loop mutant, ras(12V,37G), that uncouples Ras from activation of Raf1. RalGDS, like ras(12V, 37G), cooperates synergistically with mutationally activated Raf to induce foci of growth and morphologically transformed NIH 3T3 cells. RalGDS does not significantly enhance MAP kinase activation by activated Raf, suggesting that the cooperativity in focus formation is due to a distinct pathway acting downstream of Ras and parallel to Raf.

The ataxia ameliorating effect of an intranasal administration of thyrotropin-releasing hormone (TRH) was examined using normal and ataxic staggerer mutant mice. In the normal mice, the blood TRH level reached the maximum level 5 min after administration and was gradually eliminated during the following 60 min. The antiataxic effects of TRH in the staggerer mice was examined using an open field method. At lower doses, the intranasal administration of TRH in the staggerer mice was examined using an open field method. At lower doses, the intranasal administration of TRH did not exert any evident effect. However, at 3 mg or 4 mg, the fall index (the ratio of the number of falls to the movement score) was significantly decreased for 20 min after the administration. These results show that an intranasal administration of TRH can ameliorate the ataxia in staggerer mice, and may be promising for clinical use in patients with spinocerebellar degeneration.
Radiologand binding studies were undertaken in the turtle whole brain, cerebellum and raphe using the selective radioligands [3H]5-hydroxytryptamine trifluoroacetate ([3H]5-HT) amd [3H]+/-8-hydroxy-2-(di-N-propylamino) tetralin hydrobromide ([3H]DPAT) to identify serotonin (5-HT) receptors and the specific 5-HT1A receptor subtype. Scatchard analysis identified a nanomolar affinity binding site for [3H]5-HT (12 nM) in turtle whole brain assays. A low affinity 5-HT1A site (102 nM) was also identified in turtle whole brain assays, with a higher affinity site noted in binding studies performed with tissue from the inferior raphe (20 nM). The difference in affinity for 5-HT receptors in reptilian versus mammalian brain may prove characteristic of lower vertebrate brains with implications for the physiologic effects of this neurotransmitter in the central nervous system.
Secretory cells of the chicken pineal gland exhibit light-sensitive circadian rhythms in melatonin release that persist in vitro. Melatonin secretion is positively regulated by cyclic AMP and intracellular Ca2+ (refs 8, 10-15). Cyclic AMP analogues are more effective at stimulating melatonin secretion during the circadian night owing in part to increased Ca2+ influx at those times. However, this cannot be attributed to increased activity of L-type Ca2+ channels. Here we describe an unusual 40-pS cationic channel (ILOT) in cultured chicken pineal cells that is permeable to Ca2+ and active in the night but not during the day. ILOT is not voltage- or stretch-activated, it has a characteristically long open time, and its gating persists in excised inside-out patches in the absence of Ca2+ or cyclic nucleotides. Daily rhythms in ILOT gating are also observed in previously entrained chicken pineal cells free-running under constant dark conditions. Nighttime ILOT activity is not suppressed by brief light pulses.
Trichromatic colour vision depends on the presence of three types of cone photopigment. Trichromacy is the norm for all Old World monkeys, apes and humans, but in several genera of New World monkeys, colour vision is strikingly polymorphic. The difference in colour vision between these New and Old World primates results form differing arrangements of the pigment genes on the X chromosome. In Old World primates the three photopigments required for routine trichromatic colour vision are encoded by two or more X-chromosome pigment genes and an autosomal pigment gene. New World monkeys typically have only one X-chromosome pigment gene; multiple alleles allow different types of dichromatic colour vision and, in female heterozygous at this locus, variant forms of trichromatic colour vision. Here we report that multiple X-chromosome pigment genes and trichromatic colour vision are the norm for one genus of platyrrhine monkey, the howler monkey, Alouatta.
During spinal cord development, oligodendrocytes originate in a discrete region of the ventral ventricular zone. What regulates this initial localization of oligodendrocyte precursors is unclear. Using a combination of notochord transplantations in vivo and co-culture experiments, we demonstrate that the origin of chick spinal cord oligodendrocytes is dependent on local influences from the notochord. In stage 10-12 dorsal chick spinal cord, Mab O4+ oligodendrocyte precursors were induced both in vivo by isochronic transplantation of an additional notochord adjacent to the dorsal neural tube and in vitro by co-culture of notochord and dorsal neural tube. Heterochronic transplantations demonstrated that the notochord was capable of inducing O4+ cells in adjacent neural tube until stage 12 and that the competence of the dorsal neural tube to respond to this inductive signal declined after stage 10. During normal development the ventral neural tube is competent to develop oligodendrocytes independent of the notochord by stage 10. The induction of oligodendrocytes by the notochord may either reflect a direct interaction or be mediated through other ventrally located cells such as the floor plate. In the majority of experimental animals the appearance of ectopic oligodendrocyte precursors was correlated with local floor plate formation.
Extracellular proteins play an essential role in the formation, differentiation, and maintenance of multicellular organisms. Despite that, the systematic identification of genes encoding these proteins has not been possible. We describe here a highly efficient method to isolate genes encoding secreted and membrane-bound proteins by using a single-step selection in yeast. Application of this method, termed signal peptide selection, to various tissues yielded 559 clones that appear to encode known or novel extracellular proteins. These include members of the transforming growth factor and epidermal growth factor protein families, endocrine hormones, tyrosine kinase receptors, serine/threonine kinase receptors, seven transmembrane receptors, cell adhesion molecules, extracellular matrix proteins, plasma proteins, and ion channels. The eventual identification of most, or all, extracellular signaling molecules will advance our understanding of fundamental biological processes and our ability to intervene in disease states.
Rat cortical synaptosomes preloaded with [3H]choline were superfused and stimulated with K+ in order to investigate the effect of the cholinesterase inhibitor tacrine on the in vitro release of acetylcholine (ACh). Tacrine was found to biphasically both increase (10(-6) and 5 x 10(-6) M) and decrease (10(-5)-10(-4) M) the release of ACh in a concentration-dependent manner. The facilitatory effect of tacrine was prevented by atropine and the M1 antagonist pirenzepine, whereas the inhibitory effect induced by tacrine was blocked by atropine and the M2 antagonist AF-DX 116. These results indicate that tacrine causes a biphasic effect on K+ stimulated ACh release in the brain via M1 and M2 muscarinic receptors. The tacrine induced enhancement of the ACh release occurs at clinical relevant tacrine concentrations and might therefore be of importance for the treatment outcome of Alzheimer's disease.
In situ hybridization was employed to study the expression of bcl-2 mRNA and its family members, bax and bcl-x mRNAs, in the developing inner ear. We found that in the cochlear structure, sensory epithelial cells, the spiral ganglion and stria vascularis expressed these mRNAs in postnatal period in a temporally similar manner, but in embryos, neither bax nor bcl-x mRNA were expressed in the sensory epithelium from embryonic day (E) 13 to 19. In contrast to these patterns, bcl-2 mRNA was expressed by E15 to E19, and the expression at E13 was below the lower limit of detection. Non-neuronal tissue (stria vascularis) also expressed these three transcripts during development. These results suggest that bcl-2 family members may be differentially involved in the differentiation of sensory epithelial cells, spiral ganglia, and stria vascularis. In particular, the differential expression patterns in the cochleovestibular neurons suggest that proliferating and differentiating neurons utilize distinct members of the bcl-2 family.
Systemic injection of kainic acid (KA) in adult rat elicits a pattern of neuronal pathology which exhibits several features of human temporal lobe epilepsy. KA-induced seizure activity is accompanied by the activation of the calcium-dependent protease calpain in limbic structures. In the present study, we evaluated the spatio-temporal activation of calpain after the onset of seizure activity by immunohistochemistry using an antibody for the spectrin breakdown product (sbdp) generated by calpain-mediated spectrin proteolysis. In addition, we compared the changes in sbdp immunoreactivity with those in immunoreactivity to subunits of the Glu/AMPA receptors (GluR1 and GluR2/3). One hour after seizure onset, sbdp accumulation was observed in selected interneurons in stratum oriens and in the hilus of the dentate gyrus. By 4 h, sbdp immunoreactivity was prominent in dendritic fields of the hippocampus as well as in neurons in thalamus and piriform cortex. By 8 h, sbdp immunoreactivity had disappeared from interneurons but was localized in pyramidal cell bodies in hippocampus. Intense labeling of cell bodies and dendritic fields persisted until 5 days following KA treatment. Changes in GluR subunit immunoreactivity were mirror images of those seen for sbdp. In general, increased sbdp immunoreactivity in dendritic fields was associated with decreased GluR1 immunoreactivity. However, increased sbdp immunoreactivity in neuronal perikarya was also associated with increased GluR immunoreactivity. These results indicate that calpain activation following seizure onset exhibits a specific spatio-temporal pattern, with activation in restricted interneurons preceding widespread activation in pyramidal neurons. Calpain activation also precedes neuronal pathology and could thus represent an initial trigger for neuronal pathology. Finally, the results suggest that calpain activation produces rapid alterations in GluR subunit properties which could be involved in the hyperexcitability observed following seizure activity.
The present study was designed to test the hypothesis that the descending pathway from the medial hypothalamus to the dorsal periaqueductal gray (PAG) is critical for the expression of defensive rage behavior in the cat and utilizes excitatory amino acids as a neurotransmitter. In the first phase of the study, monopolar stimulating electrodes were implanted into the medial hypothalamus from which defensive rage behavior could be elicited by electrical stimulation. For the entire study, the hissing response was used as a measure of defensive rage behavior. Cannula electrodes were implanted into the PAG from which defensive rage sites could be identified and were later used for microinfusion of the NMDA receptor antagonist, DL-2-amino-7-phosphoheptanoic acid (AP-7), into behaviorally identified sites within the PAG. Initially, intracerbral microinjections of the NMDA receptor antagonist, AP-7 (0.2, 2.0 nmol), which were placed directly into sites within the PAG from which defensive rage had been elicited, blocked the occurrence of hypothalamic hissing. Microinjections of similar doses of AP-7 into the PAG also blocked the facilitatory effects of medial hypothalamic stimulation upon hissing behavior elicited from the PAG. However, microinjections of 2 nmol into the PAG had no effect upon hissing that was also elicited from the region of the injection site. This finding indicates that AP-7 selectively blocks hissing elicited from the medial hypothalamus and that the suppressive effects of AP-7 cannot be the result of anesthetic or other nonselective properties of the drug. The next phase of the study, which employed immunohistochemical, receptor autoradiographic techniques, identified NMDA receptors to be present in highest concentrations in the dorsolateral aspect of the PAG where defensive rage is typically elicited. The final phase of the study, which employed a combination of retrograde labeling procedures following microinjections of Fluoro-Gold into defensive rage sites in the dorsal PAG and the immunocytochemical labeling of glutamatergic neurons, identified large numbers of neurons in the medial hypothalamus that were labeled positively for both Fluoro-Gold and glutamate. The overall findings of this study support the hypothesis that descending fibers of the medial hypothalamus that supply the dorsal aspect of the PAG mediate defensive rage behavior and utilize excitatory amino acids that act upon NMDA receptors within the dorsal PAG.
Area postrema lesions (APX) were produced by vacuum aspiration in adult male rats. After systemic administration of hypertonic saline solutions, significantly more water was consumed by rats with APX than by intact control rats. Similarly enhanced water intake by rats with APX also was observed when marked hypovolemia was induced by s.c. administration of a hyperoncotic colloidal solution. In both conditions, the increased water intake occurred within the first 15 min of the drinking tests. Intakes of liquid diet or 10% sucrose solution after food deprivation by rats with APX also were considerably larger than those of control rats. These and other results suggest that rats with APX experience less inhibition of ingestion while drinking. Thus, the AP may be important for the detection of early, inhibitory signals generated by fluid ingestion, and after its ablation increased drinking may occur because the feedback inhibition provided by such signals is diminished.
The alpha-herpes virus (pseudorabies, PRV) was used to observe central nervous system (CNS) pathways associated with the vestibulocerebellar system. Retrograde transneuronal migration of alpha-herpes virions from specific lobules of the gerbil and rat vestibulo-cerebellar cortex was detected immunohistochemically. Using a time series analysis, progression of infection along polyneuronal cerebellar afferent pathways was examined. Pressure injections of &gt; 20 nanoliters of a 10(8) plaque forming units (pfu) per ml solution of virus were sufficient to initiate an infectious locus which resulted in labeled neurons in the inferior olivary subnuclei, vestibular nuclei, and their afferent cell groups in a progressive temporal fashion and in growing complexity with increasing incubation time. We show that climbing fibers and some other cerebellar afferent fibers transported the virus retrogradely from the cerebellum within 24 hours. One to three days after cerebellar infection discrete cell groups were labeled and appropriate laterality within crossed projections was preserved. Subsequent nuclei labeled with PRV after infection of the flocculus/paraflocculus, or nodulus/uvula, included the following: vestibular (e.g., z) and inferior olivary nuclei (e.g., dorsal cap), accessory oculomotor (e.g., Darkschewitsch n.) and accessory optic related nuclei, (e.g., the nucleus of the optic tract, and the medial terminal nucleus); noradrenergic, raphe, and reticular cell groups (e.g., locus coeruleus, dorsal raphe, raphe pontis, and the lateral reticular tract); other vestibulocerebellum sites, the periaqueductal gray, substantia nigra, hippocampus, thalamus and hypothalamus, amygdala, septal nuclei, and the frontal, cingulate, entorhinal, perirhinal, and insular cortices. However, there were differences in the resulting labeling between infection in either region. Double-labeling experiments revealed that vestibular efferent neurons are located adjacent to, but are not included among, flocculus-projecting supragenual neurons. PRV transport from the vestibular labyrinth and cervical muscles also resulted in CNS infections. Virus propagation in situ provides specific connectivity information based on the functional transport across synapses. The findings support and extend anatomical data regarding vestibulo-olivo-cerebellar pathways.
The predominant nicotinic acetylcholine receptor (nAChR) subtype in brain binds nicotine with high affinity and has an alpha 4:beta 2 subunit stoichiometry of 2:3. In this study, the mRNA levels of nAChR alpha 4 and beta 2 subunits were simultaneously quantitated by ribonuclease protection assay and compared with the number of alpha 4 beta 2 receptor subtype, measured by (-)-[3H]nicotine binding in the cerebellum, brain stem, hippocampus, cortex, thalamus and striatum of rat brain. The rank order of abundance of alpha 4 and beta 2 mRNA was different from that of alpha 4 beta 2 receptor subtype levels in the six brain regions studied. The ratio of alpha 4:beta 2 transcripts varied from 2:2.6 to 2:33 in these brain regions. These results reveal a differential co-expression of alpha 4 and beta 2 subunit genes in various regions of rat brain.
Responses of single viscerosensitive units in the ventral posterolateral (VPL) nucleus of the thalamus to cutaneous stimuli and graded colorectal distension (CRD) were recorded before and after colon inflammation by mustard oil (MO). The spontaneous firing rate increased around 25 min after the injection of MO. Responses to CRD obtained after this time increased significantly. In contrast, responses to cutaneous stimuli were attenuated and no substantial variations in the size of the cutaneous receptive fields were observed. A lesion of the dorsal column (DC) at T10 dramatically decreased the background activity and almost totally abolished the responses to CRD and to innocuous cutaneous stimuli but did not significantly affect the responses to noxious cutaneous pinch. These results indicate that colon inflammation potentiates thalamic responses to visceral stimuli while decreasing those to cutaneous stimuli.
Attenuating beta-amyloid precursor protein (beta-APP) gene expression may have relevance in diseases such as Alzheimer's disease, where beta-APP has been implicated in neuropathological processes. We report here on the transcriptional down-regulation of beta-APP by interferon-gamma (IFN-gamma) in SKNMC human neuroblastoma cells. Treatment of the cells with IFN-gamma resulted in a 85% dose-dependent inhibition of beta-APP promoter activity after 24 h of exposure, with no changes observed at 5 h. For comparison, additional cytokines and signaling agents were also investigated for effects on beta-APP promoter activity. Elevated levels of activity were observed after treatment with phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate and basic fibroblast growth factor whereas no significant effects were seen after treatment with lipopolysaccharide or interleukin-1 beta. Thus, IFN-gamma was shown here to be a suppressor of beta-APP promoter activity and is the first cytokine reported to possess such down-regulating effects.
We demonstrated the expression of neural cell adhesion molecule, L1, during human brain development by immunostaining with anti-L1 fibronectin domain antibody. In the human cerebellum, the inner half of the external granular and molecular layers, mostly parallel fibres, and the Purkinje cell layer were immunoreactive for L1 from the early foetal period of 13-15 gestational weeks (GW). Immunoreactivity was strongest in the molecular layer in the perinatal period. The subcortical white matter and dentate layer were immunoreactive in foetal life. In the human cerebrum, the outer half of the molecular layer, together with Cajal-Retzius cell bodies, were positively stained until 30-34 GW, when afferent fibres develop over the entire cortex. The fibres in the white matter were strongly immunopositive in the fascicles until early infancy. These results suggest that L1 is temporally and spatially expressed in the developing brain, and may play important roles in neural cell migration, neurite elongation, and axonal fasciculation.
Platelet-derived growth factor (PDGF) is a multifunctional protein that plays important roles in many tissues, including the mammalian central nervous system. PDGF and PDGF receptors (PDGFRs) are expressed in virtually every region of the central nervous system where they are involved in the development, survival, growth, and differentiation of both neuronal and glial cells. We now report that a brief activation of PDGFRs produced a long-lasting inhibition of N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA)-dependent excitatory postsynaptic currents in CA1 pyramidal neurons in rat hippocampal slices. PDGF also inhibited NMDA receptors (NMDA-Rs) in cultured hippocampal neurons by a mechanism that involves a decrease in single channel open probability. Non-NMDA receptor function was not affected by PDGF in hippocampal neurons. Experiments with mutant PDGFRs and chelation of intracellular Ca2+ in Xenopus oocytes indicate that this inhibition depends on a phospholipase C-gamma-induced elevation of intracellular Ca2+ levels. The PDGF-induced inhibition of NMDA-Rs is produced by a mechanism different than the well characterized phenomenon of Ca2+-dependent NMDA-R run down because the effect of PDGF was blocked by the phosphatase inhibitor, calyculin A, and was not affected by the microtubule polymerizing agent, phalloidin. Because elevations of PDGF levels are associated with neurological trauma or disease, we propose that PDGF can exert neuroprotective effects by inhibiting NMDA-R-dependent excitotoxicity.
Pituitary adenylate cyclase activating polypeptide (PACAP) which belongs to the vasoactive intestinal polypeptide family of regulatory peptides, occurs in two variants, PACAP-27 and PACAP-38, and is thought to be an important messenger in both the central and peripheral nervous system. Three cloned G-protein coupled 7 transmembrane spanning receptors bind PACAP with high affinity, one reacting only weakly with VIP (PACAP type I receptor) the other two binding vasoactive intestinal peptide (VIP) with equally high affinity (VIP type I and II receptors). The PACAP type I receptor displays high affinity for both variants of PACAP. In this study, we have investigated the distribution of PACAP and the PACAP type I receptor in the adrenal medulla of newborn and adult rat. Immunocytochemistry revealed, in the adult rat, a dense network of PACAP-immunoreactive nerve fibers terminating on chromaffin cells. Such fibers were few and weakly immunoreactive in the newborn rat. PACAP-immunoreactive medullary cells could not be detected in the adult rat, whereas in the newborn, occasional cells were seen. By in situ-hybridization we detected PACAP type I receptor mRNA in a majority of the adrenal medullary cells of both newborn and adult rat. Receptor autoradiography using 125I-PACAP-27 as ligand revealed binding-sites with a localization virtually identical to the in situ hybridization signal indicating a functional expression of high-affinity type I PACAP receptors in the adrenal medulla. Additionally, in the adult rat, single or clustered large cells, presumably ganglion cells, contained an even higher abundance of PACAP receptor mRNA as well as binding sites than the surrounding chromaffin cells. Our observations on the distribution of PACAP peptide and PACAP receptors in the adrenal medulla suggest that both chromaffin cells and ganglion cells are PACAP targets. The data thus strengthen earlier observations indicating an important regulatory role of PACAP in catecholamine biosynthesis and release. The presence of both ligand and receptors in newborn rats may indicate a role for PACAP in the development of the adrenal medulla.
Axotomy is known to induce changes in neuropeptide expression in several types of neurons. Colchicine blocks the axonal transport and may mimic axotomy. The effects of colchicine-treatment and axotomy (local nerve crush by clamping of the gut) on enteric neurons expressing vasoactive intestinal peptide, neuropeptide Y and nitric oxide synthase were studied in rat small intestine by immunocytochemistry and in situ hybridization. Colchicine treatment significantly increased the number of submucous and myenteric neurons expressing vasoactive intestinal peptide and its mRNA. In contrast, an increase in the number of neuropeptide Y or nitric oxide synthase expressing neurons could not be detected. Axotomy markedly increased the number of myenteric vasoactive intestinal peptide-immunoreactive neurons in the segment located orally to the lesion, but not in the segment anally to the lesion, whereas that of nitric oxide synthase and neuropeptide Y expressing neurons was not affected. Double immunostaining revealed that the myenteric neurons containing nitric oxide synthase were induced by colchicine and axotomy to express vasoactive intestinal peptide. The present data indicate that colchicine and axotomy may induce marked changes in the neuropeptide expression of enteric neurons.
The ability of a mixed CCKA/B receptor antagonist PD 142898 (benzenebutanic acid, beta-[[3-(1 H-indol-3-yl)-2-methyl-2-[[[(2-methyl- cyclohexyl)oxy]carbonyl]amino]-1-oxopropyl]amino]-[1 S-[1 alpha [S*(R*)]-2 beta]]) to modulate the antinociceptive, positive reinforcing and gastrointestinal actions of morphine was investigated in the rat. PD 142898 antagonised the development and maintenance of morphine (2.0 mg/kg, s.c.) induced conditioned place preference at 0.1 mg/kg, i.p. However, it potentiated the antinociceptive action of a subthreshold dose of morphine in the radiant tail flick model at doses of 0.001 and 0.01 mg/kg, s.c. Furthermore, PD 142898 (0.0001-1.0 mg/kg, s.c.) also potentiated the antinociceptive action of morphine (1.0 mg/kg, s.c.) against the late phase of formalin response associated with inflammation at the dose of 0.001-1.0 mg/kg. PD 142898 (0.001 mg/kg, s.c.) blocked the development of tolerance to morphine in the formalin test. It failed (0.001-1.0 mg/kg, i.p.) to modulate the inhibitory action of morphine (5.0 mg/kg, s.c.) on gastrointestinal transit as measured using the charcoal meal test. It is argued that the effect of PD 142898 in the conditioned place preference test involves antagonism of CCKA receptors, whilst the potentiation of the antinociceptive action of morphine is mediated via blockade of CCKB receptors. These results suggest that the mixed CCKA/B receptor antagonist may potentiate the analgesic action of morphine, block the development of tolerance without a concomitant increase in constipation and may also reduce the abuse potential of the opiate.
This report describes the in vivo effects of the uptake carrier blockers 1-(4,4-diphenyl-3-butenyl)-3-piperidine carboxylic acid hydrochloride (SK &amp; F 89976-A) and L-trans-pyrrolidine-2,4-dicarboxylate (L-trans-PDC) on basal and K(+)-evoked extracellular levels of gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA), glutamate, aspartate and taurine in the hippocampus of anaesthetised rats, using the microdialysis technique. SK &amp; F 89976-A increased extracellular GABA levels under K(+)-depolarised conditions and did not affect extracellular glutamate, aspartate and taurine levels, indicating its selective effect on GABA uptake L-trans-PDC dose dependently increased basal and K(+)-evoked extracellular glutamate levels, and did not affect extracellular GABA levels, but increased basal aspartate and taurine levels. The K(+)-evoked release of GABA and glutamate, measured in the presence of both SK &amp; F 89976-A and L-trans-PDC, was Ca(2+)-dependent for about 50% and 65%, respectively. In contrast, the release of the putative amino acid transmitters aspartate and taurine was not Ca(2+)-dependent. These results indicate that (1) in rat hippocampus uptake carriers actively regulate extracellular GABA and glutamate levels, (2) the GABA and glutamate released by K+ was derived from both Ca(2+)-dependent (presumably vesicular) and Ca(2+)-independent (presumably cytosolic) pools, whereas aspartate and taurine release was exclusively from Ca(2+)-independent pools.
Glial-cell-line-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF) is a potent survival factor for central and peripheral neurons, and is essential for the development of kidneys and the enteric nervous system. Despite the potential clinical and physiological importance of GDNF, its mechanism of action is unknown. Here we show that physiological responses to GDNF require the presence of a novel glycosyl-phosphatidylinositol (GPI)-linked protein (designated GDNFR-alpha) that is expressed on GDNF-responsive cells and binds GDNF with a high affinity. We further demonstrate that GDNF promotes the formation of a physical complex between GDNFR-alpha and the orphan tyrosin kinase receptor Ret, thereby inducing its tyrosine phosphorylation. These findings support the hypothesis that GDNF uses a multi-subunit receptor system in which GDNFR-alpha and Ret function as the ligand-binding and signalling components, respectively.
A novel calcium channel blocking peptide designated omega-conotoxin-Tx VII has been characterized from the venom of the molluscivorous snail Conus textile. The amino acid sequence (CKQADEPCDVFSLDCCTGICLGVCMW) reveals the characteristic cysteine framework of omega-conotoxins, but it is extremely hydrophobic for this pharmacological class of peptides and further unusual in its net negative charge (-3). It is further striking that the sequence of TxVII, a calcium current blocker, is 58% identical to that of delta-conotoxin-TxVIA, which targets sodium channels. TxVII effects were examined in the caudodorsal cell (CDC) neurons from the mollusc Lymnaea stagnalis. The toxin has no significant effect on sodium or potassium currents in these cells, but it clearly blocks the calcium currents. TxVII most prominently blocks the slowly inactivating, dihydropyridine- (DHP-) sensitive current in CDCs, while blockade of the rapidly inactivating current is less efficient. This novel omega-conotoxin is apparently targeted to DHP-sensitive calcium channels and thereby provides a lead for future design of selective conopeptide probes for L-type channels.

A cohort of patients at various stages of lithium treatment was followed up for 6 years in order to evaluate the course of thyroid abnormalities. Ultrasonography confirmed that lithium can increase thyroid size, especially in cigarette smokers, and that it can affect the texture of the gland. However, the incidence of clinical hypothyroidism or specific thyroid autoimmunity does not exceed that found in the general population. Repeated determinations of thyrotrophin (TSH) concentrations can prevent clinically relevant consequences. Addition of carbamazepine to lithium can counteract lithium-induced subclinical hypothyroidism, possibly improving prophylactic efficacy in recurrent affective disorders.
The suitability of four different methods for measuring pressure ulcer size was investigated during 10 consecutive weeks in a group of 11 elderly patients. The methods used were: 1. Volume measurement by filling the wound cavity with a gel 2. area measurement, by tracing the wound boundary outlined on transparent film with a digital planimeter 3. perimeter measurement, by tracing the wound boundary outlined on transparent film with a digital measuring pen 4. depth measurement using a millimeter probe. The mean values of the rate parameters for volume, area, perimeter, and depth were approximately in the proportions 3:2:1:1, which mirrors the inherent geometric dimensions of the corresponding variables. The methods used for measuring perimeter and depth were less reliable than the methods used for measuring volume and area. Thus, the use of both volume and area measurements in recommended. The former is best suited for deep ulcers and the latter for broad, irregularly shaped ulcers.
The purpose of the present study was to examine the processes underlying relapse to drinking using objective biological validation of self-reported recent alcohol consumption, using the ratio of 5-hydroxytryptophol to 5-hydroxyindol-3-ylacetic acid (5-HTOL/5-HIAA), a new biological marker to detect single episodes of drinking, in a sample of 38 male alcohol-dependent patients (DSM-III-R) who were assessed prospectively in terms of their clinical symptomatology over a 6-month treatment period. Results showed that nearly all patients obtained positive 5-HTOL/5-HIAA samples during the course of treatment. However, upon closer inspection, results revealed a bimodal distribution for alcohol intake with high and low frequency of consumption episodes. Results showed that high frequency consumers obtained higher ratings of clinical symptoms as measured by the Comprehensive Psychopathological Rating Scale (CPRS) and by the St Gran's Semi-structured Interview (SGSI) compared to low frequency alcohol consumers on symptoms of inner tension, lack of initiative, risk of relapse (as rated by therapists and as rated by patients themselves), dysphoria, negative craving for alcohol, and positive craving for alcohol. The present results provided evidence for the existence of two sub-populations of alcoholics, those who have frequent lapses and those who have low frequency of sporadic lapses. Further, these two sub-populations were shown to differ with respect to overall psychological functioning, and craving for alcohol. In conclusion, the present findings have important treatment implications in that reliable identification of patients' consumption patterns using biological markers would allow for the design of individually tailored treatment needs.
The present study was designed to assess the temporal pattern of ethanol intake over a 24 h period in selectively bred, Sardinian alcohol-preferring (sP) rats. Ethanol intake occurred under the two-bottle, free choice regimen. sP rats consumed ethanol in three distinct peaks, rather regularly distributed over the 12 h dark phase of the light-dark cycle and positively correlated with food intake episodes. The temporal distribution of ethanol intake and estimated blood alcohol levels are consistent with the hypothesis that sP rats voluntarily drink ethanol for its pharmacological effects.
We reviewed clinical case series published over a 10-year period addressing the cross-sectional frequency, incidence, and diagnostic and prognostic significance of extrapyramidal signs (EPS) in Alzheimer disease (AD). The review was prompted by recent reports of Lewy body (LB) pathology in the brains of many AD patients and the association of LB pathology with clinical parkinsonism in AD. In the clinical case series reviewed, we evaluated several possible determinants of prevalent EPS, including neuroleptic use, EPS assessment technique, and dementia severity. Neuroleptics were a well recognized cause of parkinsonism in these reports, though some failed to document the frequency of neuroleptic use. Assessment methods were also important: Studies using structured clinical research scales to rate EPS reported higher frequencies than studies employing routine neurological examination. The relationship between parkinsonism and dementia severity was complex. Some studies found bradykinesia, facial masking, and parkinsonian postural changes even in mildly demented, neuroleptic-naive AD patients. Rigidity, on the other hand, became increasingly common as dementia progressed. AD patients with EPS showed faster cognitive and functional decline and earlier death than those without EPS, even after consideration of differences in initial dementia severity. In the differential diagnosis of dementia with parkinsonism, LB disease in its various forms, including AD with LB, is the principal diagnostic consideration. Future studies of parkinsonism in AD should employ standardized clinical rating scales and should exclude patients on neuroleptics or analyze their results separately. Investigators should report frequencies for individual parkinsonian signs in addition to the overall prevalence of EPS to facilitate meaningful comparisons across studies.
Gangliosides and major membrane components were determined in caudate nucleus, putamen, and hippocampus of 12 cases with Alzheimer disease (AD) type I, also termed presenile or pure AD, and in age-matched controls. The concentration of gangliosides, a marker for axodendritic arborization, was reduced to 71% in caudate nucleus, 82% in putamen, and 66% in hippocampus of that in the controls. Significant diminution of total dry solids, protein, and phospholipids was also found in caudate nucleus and was most pronounced in hippocampus. The early signs of extrapyramidal features have been emphasized in AD type I. We now provide evidence that the neostriatum is affected in AD type I (the putamen, however, to a lesser extent than the caudate nucleus). The biochemical changes in these nuclei can be significantly related to scores of impairment of motor performance.
Complementary medicine is frequently utilized for a variety of chronic health problems. We evaluated its use among patients attending a Canadian dementia clinic. Using a telephone survey, we inquired about the use of alternative therapy, including nutritional supplements, herbal remedies, and chelation therapy, for problems with cognition. Only 9.6% of our patient population used complementary medicine as a treatment for cognitive problems. A further 29% used complementary medicines for general health promotion. While higher use might have been anticipated because of the limited conventional therapies available, we did not find a high prevalence of consumption of alternative medicine for cognitive problems. Knowledge of the use of these therapies is still important and should not be neglected. A nonjudgmental inquiry into all therapies being used (for whatever reason) should be part of the assessment of any patient with suspected dementia.

Neuroscience and occupational therapy in physical rehabilitation have developed along parallel tracks. As physicians began to study the neural bases of motor control, they also began to reconsider the sequelae of &quot;hopeless&quot; diagnoses as conditions that they could influence. This change in some physicians' understanding of the neural mechanisms of motor control influenced other clinicians' ideas about patient care. Early work on treatment of patients with cerebral palsy and polio led to improvements in treatment approaches used to facilitate motor skill and functional motor ability in patients with upper motor neuron disorders. From the 1950s to the present, therapists have refined their treatment techniques as knowledge from neuroscience has become available. A few therapists, who are gradually increasing in number, have turned to the laboratory to study basic neuroscience problems that affect clinical treatment. This article describes the development of neuroscience research and neurorehabilitation theories and indicates common themes.
Endogenous opioids serve as negative growth factors in neural and nonneural tissues in addition to being neuromodulators. This study investigated the hypothesis that native opioid peptides are inhibitory growth factors in heart development. DNA synthesis of ventricular myocardial and epicardial cells in 1-day-old rats was examined. Administration of a variety of opioids and peptides revealed that [Met5]enkephalin had the greatest inhibitory effect on DNA synthesis; peptides related to mu-, delta-, kappa-, epsilon-, and sigma-receptors had no influence on cell proliferation, even at concentrations as high as 10 mg/kg. [Met5]enkephalin, also termed opioid growth factor (OGF), depressed DNA synthesis at 1 and 10 mg/kg but not at 0.01 or 0.1 mg/kg. The effects of OGF were noted within 1 h of treatment, persisted for as long as 22 h after drug administration, and could depress DNA synthesis in myocardial and epicardial cells to 43 and 36%, respectively, of control values. The effect of OGF on DNA synthesis of heart cells was opioid receptor-mediated. Organ culture experiments revealed that opioids acted directly on developing cardiac cells. Both OGF and its receptor, zeta, were detected in heart cells of 1-day-old rats by immunocytochemistry. mRNA for preproenkephalin, the precursor to OGF, was observed in 1-day-old rat heart. These results indicate that an autocrine- or paracrine-produced endogenous opioid peptide (i.e., OGF) and its receptor (i.e., zeta) are present in the developing heart and govern DNA synthesis, with OGF acting directly as a tonic negative regulator of cell generation.
Paracrine-mediated Ca2+ signaling in SK-N-MCIXC neuroepithelioma cells was evaluated by means of two experimental paradigms. In the first, single SK-N-MCIXC cells were microinjected with inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate [Ins(1,4,5)P3] and cytoplasmic Ca2+ was monitored by fura 2 digital-imaging microfluorometry. In response to Ins(1,4,5)P3 or CaCl2, but not inositol 1,3,4-trisphosphate, an increase in cytoplasmic Ca2+ concentration ([Ca2+]i) was observed in injected cells and also in neighboring cells. The direction of intercellular propagation of Ca2+ signals was influenced by the presence of a flow in the extracellular medium and occurred in the absence of any detectable gap-junctional communication. The P2 purinoceptor antagonist suramin, but not antagonists of other phosphoinositide-linked receptors, blocked cell-to-cell Ca2+ signaling initiated by microinjections of Ins(1,4,5)P3. In the second paradigm, conditioned medium (CM) obtained from monolayers of SK-N-MCIXC cells elicited increases in [Ca2+]i when reapplied to cells on coverslips. The Ca(2+)-mobilizing activity of CM was reversibly antagonized by suramin and abolished by pretreatment with apyrase. The presence of nucleotide di- and triphosphates in CM was confirmed by high-performance liquid chromatography. We conclude that SK-N-MCIXC cells release nucleotides that then activate specific receptors on neighboring cells. A rise in [Ca2+]i in these cells, and subsequent additional release of nucleotides, serves to further the propagation of intercellular Ca2+ signals.
We report here the development of a new vapor sensing device that is designed as an array of optically based chemosensors providing input to a pattern recognition system incorporating artificial neural networks. Distributed sensors providing inputs to an integrative circuit is a principle derived from studies of the vertebrate olfactory system. In the present device, primary chemosensing input is provided by an array of fiber-optic sensors. The individual fiber sensors, which are broadly yet differentially responsive, were constructed by immobilizing molecules of the fluorescent indicator dye Nile Red in polymer matrices of varying polarity, hydrophobicity, pore size, elasticity, and swelling tendency, creating unique sensing regions that interact differently with vapor molecules. The fluorescent signals obtained from each fiber sensor in response to 2-s applications of different analyte vapors have unique temporal characteristics. Using signals from the fiber array as inputs, artificial neural networks were trained to identify both single analytes and binary mixtures, as well as relative concentrations. Networks trained with integrated response data from the array or with temporal data from a single fiber made numerous errors in analyte identification across concentrations. However, when trained with temporal information from the fiber array, networks using &quot;name&quot; or &quot;characteristic&quot; output codes performed well in identifying test analytes.
Relatively little is known about language cortex representation in patients with developmental pathology and epilepsy. We report the results of mapping language by electrical stimulation of chronically implanted subdural electrodes in 34 patients (mean age, 12.2 years) evaluated for epilepsy surgery, 28 of whom had magnetic resonance imaging or histological evidence of developmental tumors or cortical dysplasia. Language cortex was identified in the temporal or frontal lobe of 19 patients (left hemisphere in 17, right hemisphere in 2), and overlapped or bordered the epileptogenic region in 12. Language cortex was not found in the frontal or temporal lobe of 15 patients (left hemisphere in 4, right hemisphere in 11) and was presumed to be contralateral to grid placement. Three patients with left-hemisphere perinatal or postnatal cerebral insults before the age of 5 years had no language in the left hemisphere, while 3 patients with insults between the ages of 6 and 16 years had preserved left-hemisphere language. Developmental lesions and early-onset seizures do not displace language cortex from prenatally determined sites, whereas lesions acquired before the age of 5 years may cause language to relocate to the opposite hemisphere, but only when language cortex is destroyed.

Patterns of performance on 22 neuropsychological tests were examined in 58 patients with presumed dementia of the Alzheimer type (DAT) and 58 patients with presumed multi-infarct dementia (MID). Few differences between patterns of performance in DAT and MID were found when overall level of performance was taken into account. Within the DAT group, there were some age-related differences in performance that in themselves might support other studies suggesting clinical and neuropathological differences between subtypes of DAT that are related in part to the age at which the condition occurs. However, similar age-related patterns were found in the MID group and the DAT and MID groups did not differ significantly in this respect. Considerable inter-individual variability in pattern of performance was apparent within each group. A proportion of patients were re-assessed 10 months after initial assessment: the extent of decline over time was not predictable from patients' characteristics or test performances at initial assessment. 'De-differentiation' in patterns of impairment, over time or with increasing severity of impairment, was not observed.


Hyperkalemic periodic paralysis (HyperPP) is a disorder in which current through Na+ channels causes a prolonged depolarization of skeletal muscle fibers, resulting in membrane inexcitability and muscle paralysis. Although HyperPP mutations can enhance persistent sodium currents, unaltered slow inactivation would effectively eliminate any sustained currents through the mutant channels. We now report that rat skeletal muscle channels containing the mutation T698M, which corresponds to the human T704M HyperPP mutation, recover very quickly from prolonged depolarizations. Even after holding at -20 mV for 20 min, approximately 25% of the maximal sodium current is available subsequent to a 10-ms hyperpolarization (-100 mV). Under the same conditions, recovery is less than 3% in wild-type channels and in the F1304Q mutant, which has impaired fast inactivation. This effect of the T698M mutation on slow inactivation, in combination with its effects on activation, is expected to result in persistent currents such as that seen in HyperPP muscle.
In the present study organotypic multicellular spheroids (OMS) were used to study the effects of chemotherapeutic agents on malignant gliomas. Compared with the frequently used cell line models, OMS have several advantages with respect to the preservation of the cellular heterogeneity and the structure of the original tumour. OMS prepared from seven glioma specimens were treated with 1,3-bis(2-chloroethyl)-1-nitrosourea (BCNU), daunorubicin or doxorubicin. After exposure to these drugs, the histology and cell proliferation of the OMS were analysed by immunohistochemistry and image analysis. Furthermore, the expression of P-glycoprotein (P-gp) and multidrug resistance-related protein (MRP), which both can contribute to resistance to daunorubicin and doxorubicin, were immunohistochemically investigated. We found that OMS from gliomas are sensitive for daunorubicin and doxorubicin but not for BCNU in terms of tissue destruction and decrease in cell proliferation. In addition, all gliomas were P-gp and MRP negative, which is in accordance with the sensitivity for daunorubicin and doxorubicin. Considering the potential use of several new alternative drug delivery methods, such as intratumoural implantation of drug-impregnated polymers or liposomal encapsulation of cytostatic drugs, daunorubicin and doxorubicin might be effective in the treatment of malignant gliomas.
1. The ability of a selective CCKA receptor antagonist PD 140548 and a selective CCKB receptor antagonist CI-988 (formerly PD 134308) to modulate the various in vivo properties of morphine was investigated in the rat. 2. PD 140548 dose-dependently (0.001-1.0 mg kg-1, i.p.) antagonised the development of conditioned place preference to morphine (2.0 mg kg-1, s.c.). In contrast, CI-988 (0.01-1.0 mg kg-1, i.p.) did not affect this morphine-induced behaviour. Neither of the CCK receptor antagonists blocked or generalised to the morphine (3.0 mg kg-1, i.p.) discriminative stimulus. 3. CI-988 (0.001-10.0 mg kg-1, s.c.) at doses of 0.05 and 0.1 mg kg-1 (s.c.), potentiated the antinociceptive action of a threshold dose of morphine (5.0 mg kg-1, i.p.) in a radiant heat model of acute nociception, the rat tail flick test. Furthermore, at 0.01 mg kg-1 it potentiated the antinociceptive action of morphine (3.0 mg kg-1) during the acute phase of the rat paw formalin test. And at doses of 0.01 and 0.1 mg kg-1 it also potentiated the antinociceptive action of morphine (1.0 mg kg-1) during the tonic phase of the formalin test. However, in both models, higher doses of CI-988 were ineffective. In contrast, PD 140548 (0.001-10 mg kg-1, s.c.) was only active at a dose of 1.0 mg kg-1 (s.c.) and only in the tonic phase of the formalin test. Neither CI-988 nor PD 140548 possessed any intrinsic antinociceptive action in either of the tests. Chronic treatment with CI-988 (0.01 mg kg-1, s.c.) prevented the development of tolerance to morphine antinociception (4 mg kg-1, s.c.) following a 6 day period of twice daily injections of morphine escalating from 1 to 16 mg kg-1 (i.p.). 4. Morphine dose-dependently (1-10 mg kg-1, s.c.) reduced the distance travelled by a charcoal meal in the rat intestine. Neither PD 140548 (0.01-1.0 mg kg-1, i.p.) nor CI-988 (0.01-1.0 mg kg-1, i.p.) potentiated or suppressed this inhibitory action of morphine. 5. In conclusion, the results of the present study indicate that CCKA and CCKB receptors modulate different properties of morphine. Thus, whilst a selective CCKA receptor antagonist blocked the rewarding properties of morphine, a selective CCKB receptor antagonist potentiated the antinociceptive action. However, neither compound displayed a potential for modulating the influence of morphine on gastro-intestinal motility. It is suggested that these findings may have important implications for development of CCK receptor antagonists as analgesic adjuncts to the therapeutic use of morphine.
1. In GT1-7 cells, histamine stimulated the initial [Ca2+]i transient in a dose-dependent manner with a best-fit EC50 value of 4.2 +/- 4.2 microM (mean +/- s.e.mean, n = 4) and a best-fit maximal effect of 138 +/- 56 nM (n = 4) increase above basal calcium levels. 2. Pretreatment of cells with 30 microM histamine for 30 min desensitized the population mean peak calcium signal by 53% to 75 +/- 9 nM, (n = 3, P &lt; 0.04). Analysis of the individual cells revealed that 39 +/- 7% (n = 94 cells from 8 experiments) of pretreated cells exhibited desensitized histamine-stimulated [Ca2+]i transients of &lt; or = 1 standard deviation below the control cells mean calcium transient level. 3. The desensitization induced by histamine was prevented (P &lt; 0.01) by KN-62 (10 microM), a putative inhibitor of the calcium/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II (CaMKII). KN-62 (10 microM) alone did not induce [Ca2+]i mobilization, nor did it antagonize the histamine-stimulated [Ca2+]i signal. In addition, KN-62 did not appear to have its effect by hastening the rate of recovery from desensitization. 4. Histamine pretreatment in nominal (zero calcium + 0.2 mM EGTA) or in low (0.3 mM) extracellular calcium did not induce histamine receptor desensitization, supporting a role for extracellular calcium in the homologous H1 receptor desensitization process. 5. Histamine (30 microM) stimulated at least four different types of [Ca2+]i signals in GT1-7 cells. The majority (61%) were of single spikes with the remaining cells showing some form of calcium oscillatory behaviour. The proportion of GT1-7 cells showing histamine-induced calcium oscillations was histamine concentration-dependent and significantly reduced after acute desensitization. KN-62, when present during histamine pretreatment, prevented this fall in calcium oscillation. Under the conditions of nominal or 0.3 mM extracellular calcium the proportion of cells exhibiting histamine-stimulated calcium oscillations was not significantly different from the controls. 6. Bradykinin stimulated a [Ca2+]i transient in GT1-7 cells with a population mean peak response of 147 +/- 8 nM (n = 5) over basal levels. The bradykinin-induced [Ca2+]i signal was without any calcium oscillatory activity. Histamine pretreatment caused the heterologous desensitization of the bradykinin [Ca2+]i signal (44% reduction, P &lt; 0.007), which was unaffected by KN-62. 7. The results presented here suggest that the histamine-mediated homologous H1 receptor desensitization process involves extracellular calcium and can be blocked by KN-62, a putative inhibitor of CaMKII. In contrast, KN-62 does not appear to prevent the histamine-mediated heterologous desensitization cascade. These findings suggest fundamental differences in the mechanisms underlying homologous and heterologous H1 receptor desensitization pathways in GT1-7 neuronal cells.
1. Chronic benzodiazepine treatment of rat cerebellar granule cells induced a transient down-regulation of the gamma-aminobutyric acidA (GABAA) receptor alpha 1 subunit protein, that was dose-dependent (1 nM-1 microM) and prevented by the benzodiazepine antagonist flumazenil (1 microM). After 2 days of treatment with 1 microM flunitrazepam the alpha 1 subunit protein was reduced by 41% compared to untreated cells, which returned to, and remained at, control cell levels from 4-12 days of treatment. Chronic flunitrazepam treatment did not significantly alter the GABAA receptor alpha 6 subunit protein over the 2-12 day period. 2. GABA treatment for 2 days down-regulates the alpha 1 subunit protein in a dose-dependent (10 microM-1 mM) manner that was prevented by the selective GABAA receptor antagonist bicuculline (10 microM). At 10 microM and 1 mM GABA the reduction in alpha 1 subunit expression compared to controls was 31% and 66%, respectively. 3. The flunitrazepam-induced decrease in alpha 1 subunit protein is independent of GABA, which suggests that it involves a mechanism distinct from the GABA-dependent action of benzodiazepines on GABAA receptor channel activity. 4. Simultaneous treatment with flunitrazepam and GABA did not produce an additive down-regulation of alpha 1 subunit protein, but produced an effect of the same magnitude as that of flunitrazepam alone. This down-regulation induced by the combination of flunitrazepam and GABA was inhibited by flumazenil (78%), but unaffected by bicuculline. 5. The flunitrazepam-induced down-regulation of alpha 1 subunit protein at 2 days was completely reversed by the protein kinase inhibitor staurosporine (0.3 microM). 6. This study has shown that both flunitrazepam and GABA treatment, via their respective binding sites, caused a reduction in the expression of the GABAA receptor alpha 1 subunit protein; an effect mediated through the same neurochemical mechanism. The results also imply that the benzodiazepine effect is independent of GABA, and that the benzodiazepine and GABA sites may not be equally coupled to the down-regulation process, with the benzodiazepine site being the more dominant. The biochemical mechanism underlying the benzodiazepine-mediated down-regulation of the alpha 1 subunit protein seems to involve the activity of staurosporine-sensitive protein kinases.
This chapter addresses the idea that schizophrenia is a 'disconnection syndrome' from a theoretical and computational perspective. The distinction between anatomical and functional connectivity is reviewed and used as a framework to introduce empirical and computational evidence that schizophrenia involves, at some level, a disintegration of neuronal interactions. The chapter concludes with an example of computational neuroscience that relates observations on the dimensional complexity of neuronal dynamics in schizophrenia to the disconnection hypothesis.
Post mortem studies of psychiatric disorders have been revitalised by several developments. Molecular biology has provided tools for studying genes and their expression in post mortem brain tissue, an approach which facilitates integration of molecular genetics with neurochemistry and neuropathology. The techniques can be used quantitatively as well as qualitatively, applications which have been aided by developments in image analysis. Accompanying these advances has been an improvement in the robustness of the data as a result of greater attention to confounding variables and other methodological improvements. These issues are illustrated by two recent areas of interest in schizophrenia research: the expression of central dopamine D4 and 5-HT receptors, and synaptic pathology.
Biological psychiatry is a technical term that denotes physiological and biochemical approaches to psychiatric aetiology and, despite the usual wider meaning of the word biological, excludes psychosocial approaches. 'Biological' causes of severe psychiatric disorder have been suspected from the earliest times, and in some periods an excessive focus upon them has led to neglect of psychological and social approaches to treatment, to the detriment of patients. It is important that current research into biological psychiatry should be carried forward in conjunction with the important advances that have been made in psychological and social research. The causes of psychiatric illness are complex and it is unlikely that any single approach, biological or psychosocial, will be sufficient on its own. The great potential of biological psychiatry will be realized only if it is viewed within these wider historical and scientific perspectives.
Vascular dementia (VaD) is the second most common cause of dementia in the elderly. Neuropsychologically, VaD has been characterized traditionally as having a &quot;patchy&quot; pattern of cognitive deficits. Newly developed diagnostic criteria for VaD suggest that this &quot;patchy&quot; pattern is associated with one type of VaD-multiple cortical infarctions, and that several additional subtypes of VaD exist, each featuring a characteristic pattern of neuropsychological deficits. Strategic infarct dementias have unique features that reflect the specific brain region affected. Lacunar state and Binswanger's disease produce subcortical dementia with disproportionate executive dysfunction. The profile of neuropsychological disturbances observed in VaD patients provides important insight into the localization and pathophysiology of the underlying cerebrovascular disease.
Diffuse Lewy body disease (DLBD), in its pure form, is a neuropathologic condition in demented patients that is characterized by subcortical and diffusely distributed neocortical Lewy bodies with little or no concomitant Alzheimer's disease (AD) pathology. Clinically, DLBD patients initially present with dementia of insidious onset and subsequently develop mild extrapyramidal motor dysfunction. The present study retrospectively examined the neuropsychological test performance of five patients with DLBD and compared their performance to that of equally demented patients with neuropathologically confirmed &quot;pure&quot; AD. The results showed that the DLBD patients were globally demented with deficits in memory, attention, language, psychomotor performance, and &quot;executive&quot; functions, and a strikingly severe deficit in visuospatial and visuoconstructive abilities. The visuoconstructive and psychomotor impairments of the DLBD patients were significantly worse than those of the AD patients, whereas the memory performance of the AD patients was worse than that of the DLBD patients. These results indicate that DLBD without concomitant AD pathology can produce a global dementia with aspects of both cortical and subcortical dysfunction and suggests that Lewy body pathology contributes importantly to the clinical manifestation of the Lewy body variant of AD.
Studies in both humans and experimental animals have demonstrated that myelin repair in the CNS is a normal physiological response to myelin damage, similar to tissue injury elsewhere in the body. The unanswered question is why myelin repair is incomplete in multiple sclerosis patients. In this paper we review the morphological characteristics of remyelination, discuss the available animal models of CNS demyelination and their usefulness to identify the molecular, cellular, and morphological events involved in CNS myelin repair, examine the use of immunosuppression, immunoglobulins, protein growth factors, and glial cell transplantation at the primary experimental therapies designed to promote CNS remyelination, and address the potential electrophysiological and clinical benefits of myelin repair in the CNS.
The lateral geniculate complex innervates the hypothalamic suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN). The location of neurons in the cat ventral lateral geniculate nucleus (vLGN) that give rise to the geniculohypothalamic tract has not been described. In this study, retrogradely labeled neurons were noted throughout the rostrocaudal extent of the medial vLGN following tracer injection into the SCN region. In addition, neuropeptide Y immunoreactive processes were also observed in the vLGN in this same medial zone and in the SCN. The data suggest that the medial zone of the cat vLGN may be homologous to the rodent intergeniculate leaflet (IGL).
The purpose of this research was to characterize morphologically and electrophysiologically tissue slices obtained from the hippocampus of homing and non-homing pigeons. When hippocampal slices from the brain of homing and non-homing pigeons are observed under the dissecting microscope, diffuse fiber paths can be seen. These fiber pathways appeared to be identical with the medial fiber tract (VM) previously described histologically in the hippocampus of homing pigeon. Visualization of these tracts in living slices allowed placement of stimulating and recording electrodes in corresponding locations in these slices in both homing and non-homing pigeons. Extracellular potentials recorded from VM regions of the brains of both homing and non-homing pigeons were sensitive to CNQX indicating that glutamate may be a neurotransmitter in this area of pigeon hippocampus. These potentials could undergo long-term potentiation (LTP) following high frequency stimulation. This LTP was blocked by NMDA receptor antagonist APV in the hippocampus of homing pigeon, but was APV-resistant in the hippocampus of non-homing pigeon. Extracellular potentials from the hippocampus of homing pigeons were increased in amplitude when slices were perfused with Mg(2+)-free Ringer, while potential recorded from hippocampal slices from non-homing pigeons wre unaffected by Mg(2+)-free solutions. Intracellular recordings from the hippocampal slices of homing pigeons revealed that about half the cells demonstrated excitatory synaptic potentials evoked by extracellular stimulation. The EPSP was sometimes large enough to trigger an action potential. Neurons filled with the fluorescent dye, Lucifer Yellow, in the hippocampus of homing pigeons showed multipolar structure. The response of these cells to extracellular stimulation provides the activity responsible for the extracellular potentials which can undergo LTP.
The present study investigated brain mechanisms underlying auditory memory. In a modified Sternberg memory scanning task, 11 subjects indicated whether a probe sound was part of a previously presented 4-item memory set by a button press. Behaviorally, subjects responded fastest and most accurately to probes that matched the last memory set items and slowest and least accurately to negative probes and to positive probes to the first two memory set items. Electrophysiologically, probes to the last memory set items elicited the largest amplitude and earliest latency P3 components while other probes elicited smaller amplitude, prolonged P3s as well as a negativity around 400 ms. These results suggest that subjects utilized a trace strength/self-terminating search model to perform the memory scanning task. Subjects only generated the P3 component during the matching phase of the auditory memory task while a sustained frontal negativity was elicited during both the encoding and matching phase. Taken together these findings provide evidence of differential activation of distributed neural activity during non-linguistic auditory memory.
Receptor tyrosine kinases (RTKs) play important roles in cellular differentiation, survival, and proliferation. To search for genes involved in the survival of motoneurons, we isolated the RTKs specifically expressed on them. We used RT-PCR, by which RNA was obtained from purified embryonic day 5 (E5) chick motoneurons, and screened by in situ hybridization. Of 17 RTK cDNA clones, c-ret expression gradually increased in the motoneurons of the spinal cord during development. Compared with the expression of the neurotrophin receptor, TrkC, that of c-ret was very high in motoneurons from around E17 to adulthood. The level of c-ret expression on the motoneurons was unaffected by deafferentation at E2, but changed after denervation at post-hatching day 2. The in situ hybridization signal for c-ret mRNA increased slightly at day 1, then decreased progressively up to day 8, and increased again 2 weeks after sciatic nerve denervation in the motoneurons of the lumbar spinal cord. There were also changes in the signal of the lesioned sciatic nerve. In the most distal part from the lesioned site, the signal for c-ret mRNA significantly increased from day 3 on after denervation. These results suggested that the c-ret gene may encode the receptor for a factor involved in motoneuron differentiation and the promotion of regeneration of injured peripheral nerves.
Confabulation following brain injury is discussed in terms of (1) the conditions of brain dysfunction under which it occurs; (2) its association with amnesia, the denial syndromes, and reduplicative phenomena; (3) its positive, symbolic, adaptive aspects; and (4) the relationship of the content to current stresses and premorbid experience.
Neurofibromatosis type 1 (NF1) is a common inherited disorder. Neurofibromas may be situated almost anywhere in the body, including mediastinum, myocardium and autonomic nervous system. We, therefore, tested our hypothesis that arrhythmias would be more common during a 24-hour period in patients with NF1 than in control subjects. In a follow-up study of NF1 patients in Gothenburg, 38 out of 47 NF1 patients entered a study for comparison with 41 controls. We did not find any excess of arrhythmias. There were, however, fewer cases with episodes of bradycardia among the NF1 patients (p &lt; 0.01) than among the controls. This might be explained by vagus nerve involvement.
The projections of myenteric neurons within the myenteric plexus of the guinea-pig small intestine were established using retrograde tracing in organotypic culture. Three days after applying the fluorescent dye DiI to a single internodal strand in the myenteric plexus, 500-1000 nerve cell bodies were labelled. Of these, 77% were located oral to the application site, 15% were located anally and 7% were located within 1 mm of this site. Three major morphological types of neurons could be distinguished. Dogiel type I neurons had lamellar dendrites and single axons, Dogiel type II neurons had large smooth cell bodies and several long processes, and filamentous neurons had smooth ovoid cell bodies, single axons and several filamentous dendrites. Dogiel type I, II and filamentous neurons accounted for 54.6%, 38% and 7.4% of all filled cells, respectively. Labelled nerve cell bodies were present up to 13 mm aboral to the DiI application site; all neurons more than 2 mm aboral had Dogiel type I features. On the oral side, Dogiel type I neurons were found up to 110 mm, Dogiel type II neurons up to 100 mm and filamentous neurons up to 80 mm. Neurons with 2 mm oral or aboral to the DiI application site were located up to 7 mm circumferentially and were mainly Dogiel type II cells. This work revealed remarkable polarity within the myenteric plexus, with a significant prevalence of myenteric neurons projecting anally for longer distances than those projecting orally. These long pathways are probably involved in the coordination of intestinal motility.
Regional cerebral blood flow, measured with positron emission tomography, was used to identify brain regions that play a special role(s) in a working memory task for faces. Perceptual matching (no retention interval), short-delay (average = 3.5 s retention interval), intermediate-delay (average = 12.5 s), and long-delay (21 s) tasks were considered. From the idea that brain function is the result of neural interactions, the data were analysed using anatomically based, covariance structural equation modeling. In perceptual matching, the dominant functional interactions were observed among the ventral cortical areas, from extrastriate regions, to the anterior temporal, and into the inferior prefrontal cortex. These interactions decreased with longer delay intervals. In the short-delay functional model, interactions along this ventral stream in the right hemisphere appeared to be rerouted through limbic areas with strong interactions among the hippocampal region, the anterior and posterior cingulate, and the inferior prefrontal cortices. For the intermediate-delay model, the hippocampocingulate interactions continued, but showed a shift to more left hemisphere involvement. In the long-delay network, interactions within the right limbic circuit were reduced in favor of strong bilateral inferior prefrontal and frontocingulate interactions. Effects from the prefrontal cortex, especially from the left hemisphere, to temporal and occipito-temporal cortices were particularly strong in the long-delay model, suggesting recruitment of some of the same circuits primarily involved in face perception. The strong corticolimbic interactions at short and intermediate delays may represent maintenance of an iconic representation of the face during the retention interval. However, at longer delays, where image was more difficult to maintain, a frontocingulate-occipital network was used that could represent an expanded encoding strategy resulting in a more resilient memory.
A series of (3-substituted phenyl)urea analogues of the potent gastrin/cholecystokinin (CCK)-B receptor antagonist YM022 has been prepared. Structure-activity relationship studies of this series suggested that a number of analogues retained good in vitro potency for gastrin/CCK-B receptor. In particular, the (3-amino substituted phenyl)urea derivatives (10-12) were more potent inhibitors of pentagastrin-induced gastric acid secretion in rats than YM022 on intraduodenal (i.d.) administration.

Xanomeline, a substituted TZTP, is a new M1 selective muscarinic agonist in clinical trials for Alzheimer's disease. The brain uptake of [11C]xanomeline and the analog [11C]butylthio-TZTP was examined by positron emission tomography (PET). Radioactivity accumulated most markedly in the neocortex and the striatum. Pharmacological characterization in vitro and in cynomolgus monkeys in vivo by PET indicated specific [11C]butylthio-TZTP binding to muscarinic receptors and to sigma-1 recognition sites. More than 5% of the radioactivity was in the human brain 5 min after i.v. injection of [11C]xamomeline or [11C]butylthio-TZTP. This high brain uptake may be clinically advantageous in the sense that substituted TZTP may induce central muscarinic agonist effects at a dose level for which there is a low risk of peripheral side-effects.
Using fate mapping techniques, we have analyzed development of cells of the dorsal marginal region in wild-type and mutant zebrafish. We define a domain in the early gastrula that is located just at the margin and centered on the dorsal midline, in which most cells generate clones that develop exclusively as notochord. The borders of the notochord domain are sharp at the level of single cells, and coincide almost exactly with the border of the expression domain of the homeobox gene floating head (flh; zebrafish homologue of Xnot), a gene essential for notochord development. In flh mutants, cells in the notochord domain generate clones of muscle cells. In contrast, notochord domain cells form mesenchyme in embryos mutant for no tail (ntl; zebrafish homologue of Brachyury). A minority of cells in the notochord domain in wild-type embryos develop as unrestricted mesoderm, invariably located in the tail, suggesting that early gastrula expression of flh does not restrict cellular potential to the notochord fate. The unrestricted tail mesodermal fate is also expressed by the forerunner cells, a cluster of cells located outside the blastoderm, adjacent to the notochord domain. We show that cells can leave the dorsal blastoderm to join the forerunners, suggesting that relocation between fate map domains might respecify notochord domain cells to the tail mesodermal fate. An intermediate fate of the forerunners is to form the epithelial lining of Kupffer's vesicle, a transient structure of the teleost tailbud. The forerunners appear to generate the entire structure of Kupffer's vesicle, which also develops in most flh mutants. Although forerunner cells are present in ntl mutants, Kupffer's vesicle never appears, which is correlated with the later severe disruption of tail development.
During development, many migrating neurons are thought to guide on radially oriented glia to reach their adult locations. However, members of the 'U-shaped' group of cholinergic interneurons in embryonic rat spinal cord appeared to migrate in a direction perpendicular to the orientation of radial glia. This 'U-shaped' group of cells was located around the ventral ventricular zone on embryonic day 16 and, during the next two days, the constituent cells dispersed into the dorsal horn or around the central canal. During this period, these cells could be identified with either ChAT immunocytochemistry or NADPH-diaphorase histochemistry and they appeared to be aligned along commissural axons, suggesting that such processes, rather than radial glia, might guide their migration. An organotypic spinal cord slice preparation was developed and utilized for three different experimental approaches to studying this migration. In the first experiments, slices of embryonic day 16 cervical spinal cord were cultured for one, two or three days, and a relatively histotypic dorsal migration of 'U-derived' cells could be inferred from these sequential cultures. A second set of experiments focused on the direct observation of dorsally directed migration in living spinal cord cultures. Embryonic day 16 slices were injected with a lipophilic fluorescent label near the dorsal boundary of the 'U-shaped' cell group and the dorsal movement of labeled cells was observed using confocal microscopy. These experiments confirmed the dorsal migratory pattern inferred from sequentially fixed specimens. A third experimental approach was to transect embryonic day 16 slice cultures microsurgically in order to disturb the migration of 'U-derived' cells. Depending upon the amount of ventral spinal cord removed, the source of cells was excised and/or their guidance pathway was perturbed. The number and position of 'U-derived' cells varied with the amount of ventral cord excised. If more than 400 microns was removed, no 'U-derived' diaphorase-labeled cells were present, whereas if only 200-300 microns was removed, the cultures contained such cells. However, in this instance, many of the 'U-derived' neurons did not move as far dorsally, nor did they display their characteristic dorsoventral orientation. When results from these three experiments are taken together, they provide strong evidence that nonradial neuronal migration occurs in developing spinal cord and that the 'U-derived' neurons utilize such a migration to move from their ventral generation sites to their dorsal adult locations.
A cut peripheral nerve can be repaired by either suturing the two nerve stumps together directly or by interposing a nerve graft between the two stumps. Several factors such as the patient's age, type of injury, and proximity of the lesion will influence the functional results. In our own experiments we have encased the two nerve stumps in various chambers intentionally leaving a short gap between the nerve stumps. In these chambers neurotrophic factors will accumulate and in a prospective randomized clinical trial it has been demonstrated that the chamber principle has some advantages as compared to established technique. Other experiments utilizing predegenerated experimental nerve grafts have demonstrated that regenerating axons enter these grafts more rapidly than in ordinary nerve grafts.
To evaluate the possible relation between exposure to organic solvents and the development of multiple sclerosis, we carried out a best-evidence synthesis of the available information. We found 13 studies with varying methodology that included information on solvent exposure. In 10 of the studies, there were indications of an increased risk of multiple sclerosis in relation to solvent exposure. We made three selections of studies for both pooled analyses and meta-analyses. The relative risk point estimates that we obtained varied from 1.7 to 2.6. Our evaluation is consistent with the hypothesis that organic solvents may be a cause of multiple sclerosis.
Patients with reflex epilepsies may provide insights into cerebral pathophysiology. We report a patient with an unusual form of reflex epilepsy in whom seizures are induced by tooth brushing. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) demonstrated a right posterior frontal low-grade tumor predominantly involving the precentral gyrus. Video-telemetry demonstrated right-sided epileptiform activity during a typical induced complex partial seizure. An ictal single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) scan showed an area of hyperfusion that corresponded to the MRI lesion on coregistration with a surface-matching technique. A subsequent coregistered interictal SPECT scan demonstrated hypoperfusion in the same region. Ours is the first report to demonstrate a structural focus in this unusual form of reflex epilepsy. Possible mechanisms to explain the induction of the seizures are discussed.
After the case report H.M. [42], unilateral neurosurgical interventions in the mediotemporal area have no longer been performed, if damage to the contralateral mediotemporal region was present, because of running the risk of provoking a postoperative amnesic syndrome. We present a patient with bilateral mediotemporal cysts and medically refractory complex partial seizures originating in the left mediotemporal region. Although our patient had additional right mediotemporal damage and poor non-verbal learning and memory, the left amygdaloid body and the left hippocampal formation were resected because the patient passed a selective anterior temporal lobe Amobarbital test. Postoperatively, our patient's non-verbal memory recovered to normal, but his verbal memory declined. Nevertheless, he was non-amnesic and seizure-free.
By using in vivo microdialysis it was found that one of the main functions of striatal dopamine D1 receptors is to selectively facilitate GABAergic neurotransmission in the 'direct' strioentopeduncular pathway. D1 receptors localized in the entopeduncular nucleus were also found to facilitate GABA release. However, results obtained from in vivo microdialysis, in vivo electrochemistry, immunohistochemistry and confocal laser microscopy suggested that entopeduncular D1 receptors could only be activated under pharmacological conditions. Adenosine A1 receptors were found to antagonistically modulate the D1-mediated regulation of the strioentopeduncular pathway. Furthermore, using in situ hybridization D1 and A1 receptors were shown to be colocalized in medium-sized striatal neurons. These results show that the strioentopeduncular neuron is a main locus for adenosine-dopamine interactions in the brain.
We measured human ocular torsion (OT) monocularly (using video) and binocularly (using search coils) while sinusoidally accelerating (0.7 g) five human subjects along an earth-horizontal axis at five frequencies (0.35, 0.4, 0.5, 0.75, and 1.0 Hz). The compensatory nature of OT was investigated by changing the relative orientation of the dynamic (linear acceleration) and static (gravitational) cues. Four subject orientations were investigated: (1) Y-upright-acceleration along the interaural (y) axis while upright; (2) Y-supine-acceleration along the y-axis while supine; (3) Z-RED-acceleration along the dorsoventral (z) axis with right ear down; (4) Z-supine-acceleration along the z-axis while supine. Linear acceleration in the Y-upright, Y-supine and Z-RED orientations elicited conjugate OT. The smaller response in the Z-supine orientation appeared disconjugate. The amplitude of the response decreased and the phase lag increased with increasing frequency for each orientation. This frequency dependence does not match the frequency response of the regular or irregular afferent otolith neurons; therefore the response dynamics cannot be explained by simple peripheral mechanisms. The Y-upright responses were larger than the Y-supine responses (P &lt; 0.05). This difference indicates that OT must be more complicated than a simple low-pass filtered response to interaural shear force, since the dynamic shear force along the interaural axis was identical in these two orientations. The Y-supine responses were, in turn, larger than the Z-RED responses (P &lt; 0.01). Interestingly, the vector sum of the Y-supine responses plus Z-RED responses was not significantly different (P = 0.99) from the Y-upright responses. This suggests that, in this frequency range, the conjugate OT response during Y-upright stimulation might be composed of two components: (1) a response to shear force along the y-axis (as in Y-supine stimulation), and (2) a response to roll tilt of gravitoinertial force (as in Z-RED stimulation).
While the central nervous system (CNS) has been characterized as an immunologically privileged site, there are also several reports describing immunological reactions within the CNS. A certain degree of immunological privilege has also been ascribed to the anterior chamber of the eye. We have used the intraocular transplantation model to study immunological reactions in transplants of embryonic neural tissue. Outbred Sprague-Dawley rats and inbred Fisher rats were used. Pieces of rat parietal cortex or the cervical spinal cord were prepared from embryonic day 14 and implanted into the eye chambers of adult rats of the same strain. Following intraocular maturation, grafts were analysed using antibodies against: major histocompatibility complex (MHC) class I, MHC class II; rat antigens CD4, CD8, CD11b; T-cell receptor; rat antigen ED1; and glial fibrillary acidic protein. Using this set of markers for immunological reactions, transplants were scored on a blind basis. We found no significant differences in immunological scores between transplants obtained from different litters of fetuses of the outbred animals. Grafting in the outbred strain led to increased numbers of immunologically reactive cells in the grafts. This was not seen in grafts in the inbred strain. Spinal cord transplants led to a significantly higher degree of cytotoxic immunity-related cells expressing MHC class II as well as CD4-positive cells. There was a positive correlation between ED1 negativity and well-developed ramified microglia. From these results we conclude also that well-developed intraocular CNS tissue grafts do contain cellular evidence of immunological events and that different areas of the CNS may provoke different degrees of response. Reactive microglial proliferation appears to be one of the most sensitive ways to monitor the immunological condition of grafted CNS tissue.
The article reviews some of the recent work showing how physiological stimuli act to alter neuropeptide gene expression. It describes how neural and humoral factors activated by physiological stimuli interact with the mechanisms regulating neuropeptide gene expression in neurons with either vascular (neurosecretory) or cellular (centrally directed) synapses. Although the focus will be on corticotropin-releasing hormone (CRH) in the hypothalamic paraventricular nucleus, comparisons will be made between this neurosecretory cell group and others that express this gene. The regulation of neuropeptide genes colocalized in neurons that synthesize CRH is also considered. The review begins with a brief historical introduction, placing peptides in the overall functional perspective of neurosecretory and centrally directed neurons. It then describes studies using in vitro preparations that reveal details of the signal transduction mechanisms responsible for altering the expression of neuropeptide genes. For the CRH gene they are providing the foundations for future work on how physiological stimuli alter mRNA levels in the whole animal. Physiological stimuli provide a very broad range of signals to neuropeptide neurons commensurate with the wide variety of motor responses they initiate. One important humoral signal impacting neuropeptide neurons is plasma corticosterone, and many workers have addressed this aspect of its function. Corticosterone appears capable of interacting with at least two different neuronal mechanisms to regulate CRH mRNA levels: one is clearly seen in paraventricular neurosecretory neurons, where increasing plasma corticosteroid reduces CRH mRNA levels; the other, seen in neurons in the central nucleus of the amygdala, acts to increase them. Since physiological stimuli present a complex mixture of humoral and neural signals to the CNS, integration of these two signal types is a critical aspect of peptide metabolism that requires detailed attention. Studies that are beginning to address this important question are described. Circadian influences play an important role in organizing homeostatic processes, and their influence on CRH gene expression is considered. The viscerosensory-motor integration associated with dehydration offers a useful model for investigating the role of peptides in neuronal function and motor architecture. Much of our work has concentrated on how peptide genes are regulated by alterations to fluid homeostasis, and these studies, along with those of other investigators, are described in this integrative context. Finally, consideration is given to the many studies that have addressed the impact of nonviscerosensory stimulation on neuropeptide gene expression.

UDP-galactose:ceramide galactosyltransferase (CGT) (EC 2.4.1.62) catalyzes the final step in the synthesis of galactocerebroside, a glycosphingolipid characteristically abundant in myelin. In this report, we describe the isolation of genomic clones spanning the mouse CGT gene. The mouse CGT gene consists of six exons that span a minimum of 70 kb of DNA and that encode a 541 amino acid translation product with extensive sequence similarity to the rat CGT enzyme and to UDP-glucuronosyltransferases (UGT). The 5'-untranslated region of the mouse CGT gene is encoded by a separate exon located approximately 25 kb upstream of the first protein-encoding exon. Furthermore, the genomic organization of the five coding region exons of the mouse CGT gene resembles that of the human UGT1 and rat UGT2B1 genes. Finally, analysis of somatic cell hybrids by PCR and fluorescence in situ hybridization to metaphase chromosomes has localized the mouse CGT gene to chromosome 3, bands E3-F1.
Essentially pure (&gt;95%) cultures of microglia were established from neopallia of newborn rats and used for whole-cell patch-clamp recording of electrophysiological properties and for proliferation studies. Two types of cultures were examined: 1) &quot;Primary&quot; cultures were grown in culture medium with serum and used within 3 weeks of isolation; 2) and &quot;Colony-stimulating factor (CSF)-1-stimulated&quot; cultures were derived from 3-week-old &quot;primary&quot; cultures by passaging and culturing them for several weeks longer in the presence of conditioned medium enriched in CSF-1. Microglia in the &quot;primary&quot; cultures expressed: 1) an inwardly rectifying K+ current (Kir) that was inhibited by Ba2+; 2) an outwardly rectifying K+ current (Kv) with many similarities to the cloned Kv1.3 channel of lymphocytes, including block by nanomolar concentrations of charybdotoxin (ChTX) and margatoxin (MgTX); and 3) an outwardly rectifying anion current with time- and voltage-independent gating. The anion current is activated reversibly under cell swelling conditions, i.e., after exposure to a hypo-osmotic bathing medium. The anion channels are highly permeable to Cl-, measurably permeable to gluconate (P(gluconate)/ PCl = 0.34), and blocked by flufenamic acid, 4-nitro-2-(3-phenylpropylamino)- benzoic acid (NPPB), and 6, 7-dichloro-2-cyclopentyl-2, 3-dihydro-2-methyl-1-oxo-1H-inden-5-yl (oxy) acetic acid (IAA-94). Microglia in the &quot;CSF-1-stimulated&quot; cultures expressed Kir and Cl- current, but not Kv current. Proliferation in the latter type of cultures could be slowed by omission of the CSF-1 enriched supernatant for 2 days and stimulated by adding back the conditioned medium. This &quot;CSF-1-stimulated&quot; proliferation was inhibited by Ba2+ (Kir blocker), and the Cl(-)-channel blockers flufenamic acid, NPPB, and IAA-94, whereas the Kv blockers ChTX and MgTX had no effect. Thus, Kir and Cl- channels appear to be necessary for &quot;CSF-1-stimulated&quot; proliferation of rat microglia, and there is no evidence that even a transient activation of Kv is necessary.
The electroencephalogram (EEG), like many other biological phenomena, is quite likely governed by nonlinear dynamics. Certain characteristics of the underlying dynamics have recently been quantified by computing the correlation dimensions (D2) of EEG time series data. In this paper, D2 of the unbiased autocovariance function of the scalp EEG data was used to detect electrographic seizure activity. Digital EEG data were acquired at a sampling rate of 200 Hz per channel and organized in continuous frames (duration 2.56 s, 512 data points). To increase the reliability of D2 computations with short duration data, raw EEG data were initially simplified using unbiased autocovariance analysis to highlight the periodic activity that is present during seizures. The D2 computation was then performed from the unbiased autocovariance function of each channel using the Grassberger-Procaccia method with Theiler's box-assisted correlation algorithm. Even with short duration data, this preprocessing proved to be computationally robust and displayed no significant sensitivity to implementation details such as the choices of embedding dimension and box size. The system successfully identified various types of seizures in clinical studies.

A colloid xanthogranuloma of the third ventricle is described. Presenting features were symptoms of raised intracranial tensions and two episodes of seizures. The pathogenesis, clinical and radiological features, differential diagnosis and treatment of this rare benign lesion are briefly discussed.

Craving is an integral element in the understanding of alcohol dependence. Recent human and animal research implicates the serotonergic and dopaminergic systems in the mediation of excessive alcohol consumption. In this study, a cue-based approach was used to qualify and quantify craving occurring during acute withdrawal from alcohol. Fifty alcoholics were given either placebo, bromocriptine or fluoxetine in a randomised double-blind fashion and craving was sequentially measured over the next 15 days. Both fluoxetine and bromocriptine significantly attenuated total craving scores without similarly affecting withdrawal symptoms. The results suggest the importance of neurotransmitters in mediating craving. The significance of these data in the light of various behavioural and neurochemical models have been discussed.
This paper deals with brain research and depth psychology. Because brain research is becoming significantly more sophisticated and increasingly able to assay the neurobiology of subjective (i.e., mental) events in vivo, it is suggested that any school of depth psychology will probably not survive as a mainstream treatment modality if its theory and practice is found to be in frank variance with the findings of the modern neurosciences. Jung's psychology is compared to Freud's and shown to be reasonably consonant with such findings. Historical highlights of Jung's non-reductive way of conceptualizing and working are presented and put in the context of more recent scientifically defensible concepts (emergence, supervenience, complexity theory) from the fields of both philosophy of science and philosophy of mind. These concepts postulate a hierarchical model of reality which permits an exploration of the mind/brain relationship without resorting to reductionism or dualism. A sense of the present struggle is conveyed between the proponents of these and more traditional scientific concepts. Finally, the nature of mind/brain confluence is elucidated by examples from the areas of learning, memory and the capacity to symbolize in order to illustrate how clinical practices and observations familiar to experience depth therapists and also in agreement with Jungian theory are compatible with neuroscientific findings. A research suggestion is offered.
To analyze how the 1-min oscillation in postural sway and 1-min wave in body fluid volume change contribute to human circulatory homeostasis, several levels of body circumference, foot pressure center, electromyograms, and volumes of the leg, abdomen, and thorax were measured during upright standing for 40 min in 20 healthy young men. Spectral analyses of these parameters revealed that a 1-min rhythm is found in all parameters and that the 1-min wave in body fluid volume changes in the lower leg, which occur in fluid pooling caused by gravity, propagate upward. Muscle pumping in the lower leg triggered by the postural sway was found to increase the power of this 1-min wave. A quantitative analysis of body circumferences disclosed that the 1-min wave in body fluid volume change compensates for gravitational downward fluid shift, with the volume of 6.3 +/- 5.0 ml/cycle at the heart level. We concluded that a coupling mechanism between the 1-min oscillation in postural sway and the upward propagation of 1-min wave in body fluid volume change contributes to maintain systemic blood pressure during upright standing in humans.
Further evidence was found for adaptive changes in the vestibular &quot;velocity storage&quot; (VS) component of the vestibuloocular reflex in four shuttle astronauts tested in parabolic flight and before, during, and after a 14-day mission. Nystagmus was recorded during and after 1 min of 120 degrees/s rotation. Gains and time constants were determined by computer analysis. Responses correlated with experience. Two subjects were making their first spaceflight. In parabolic flight, their time constants shortened to an average of 60% of 1 G values, presumably because unfamiliar otolith cues reduced VS. However, after 4-10 days in orbit, their time constants were similar or greater than those preflight, indicating VS recovery. The other two subjects had previously flown in space. Their time constants shortened in orbit to an average of 69% of 1 G values, indicating a persisting reduction of VS. This correlation with spaceflight experience has been seen in 9 of 11 subjects on 3 missions. Head pitch did not significantly &quot;dump&quot; nystagmus as it does on Earth.
Perceptual responses of four astronauts were measured before and after a 14-day Spacelab Life Sciences-2 mission during interaural (y-axis) and rostrocaudal (z-axis) linear acceleration to measure adaptive changes in perceptual responses to inertial cues. In one test, subjects used a joystick to null a pseudorandom velocity disturbance. Postflight, two of three subjects showed a significantly enhanced ability to null linear self-motion in the y-axis and z-axis orientations. In another test, the subjects used a joystick to indicate their direction of motion during a series of low-acceleration steps. The postflight responses of three of the four subjects showed a significant increase in the response latency for both y-axis and z-axis orientations. In a third test, subjects were asked to track a stationary but unseen target with their eyes while they translated linearly in the dark. No significant changes were observed in the postflight responses. The observed changes, when present, may be due to a reinterpretation of inertial cues that are functionally adaptive for the microgravity environment but are not optimal for responses on Earth.
To measure adaptive changes in the ability to sense tilt after spaceflight, we measured the ability of four astronauts to control roll tilt in the presence of a pseudorandom motion disturbance before and after a 14-day Spacelab mission. The subjects were tested 1) in the dark, 2) with an independent sum-of-sines visual display, and 3) by using a control condition in which the visual cues confirmed the motion cues (counterrotating). The two subjects tested on the landing day exhibited significant decrements (P &lt; 0.05) in their ability to control roll tilt in the dark, whereas no significant performance decrements were observed in the control condition. The absence of changes in the control condition suggests that changes in the neuromuscular component of the task and postflight fatigue were not major factors contributing to the observed performance decrement in the dark. These findings indicate an adaptive change in the way the nervous system interprets tilt cues. Readaptation of all responses appeared to be rapid, with a return to preflight values within 1-2 days after landing.
Human spatial orientation in spaceflight is initially disturbed by the absence of usable graviceptor information from the otolithic organs. Experiments measuring astronaut visually induced motion (vection) strength on various flight days during the first 10 days of the Spacelab Life Sciences-2 mission demonstrated two new phenomena in addition to confirming the initial increased weighting of visual and localized tactile cues. The reliance on tactile and visual noninertial cues apparently declined after a week in space, as the crew became able to utilize their internal reference frame. Subjects also showed that even nondirectional tactile cues served as a direction anchor and inhibited visually induced roll sensation relative to a new loosely tethered test condition. Individual perceptual styles were again revealed among the four astronauts tested. The readaptation to 1 G similarly shows a period of reinterpretation of inertial and visual cues to spatial orientation. The results are discussed in terms of an internal-model representation of body orientation, with time-varying weights applied to extrinsic and intrinsic signals.
Ischemic cell death occurs when extracellular glutamate levels increase, causing tissue depolarization and an excessive rise in intracellular calcium concentrations. The relative occurrence of the depolarization events and the changes in glutamate concentration in ischemia have not been studied. In a model of focal cerebral ischemia in the rat, three measurements were made simultaneously in vivo: cerebral blood flow (CBF) by the H2-clearance method, extracellular glutamate concentration by microdialysis, and activation of the voltage-sensitive calcium channel (VSCC) by its binding to [3H]nimodipine. Effects of probe implantation on these measurements were accounted for. The CBF to control ratio obtained during the experiments spanned the range of 1.08 to 0.07. Binding to [3H]nimodipine became significantly activated when CBF fell to approximately 0.49 of its control value while extracellular glutamate concentrations increased significantly only at a CBF ratio of &lt; 0.33. Activation of the VSCC at this high CBF ratio may be due to ischemic depolarization, which has been shown to activate the binding to [3H]nimodipine. It may be useful to define a CBF threshold of 50% of normal in focal ischemia for opening of the VSCC. The same threshold has been linked to an overall depression of protein synthesis and to activation of a number of molecular responses.
We have performed a mapping of basic fibroblast growth factor (bFGF) immunoreactive (ir) glial and nerve cell populations in the male rat brain using a rabbit antibody raised against a synthetic peptide of bovine bFGF. Regional morphometric and microdensitometric analysis of the bFGF ir neuronal profiles in coronal brain sections was carried out by means of an automatic image analyser. The density and intensity of the bFGF ir glial profiles were subjectively evaluated. The bFGF immunoreactivity (IR) was detected within the cytoplasm of neurons, except within the pyramidal neurons of hippocampal CA2 region, the fasciola cinerea and the indusium griseum, where bFGF IR was present in the nucleus. In contrast, in glial cells bFGF IR was always found in the nucleus. Neuronal and glial IR was no longer observed after absorption of the bFGF antiserum with recombinant bFGF. Basic FGF IR was found in neuronal and glial cell populations throughout the brain as well as in the choroid plexus and in the ependymal cells lining the ventricles. Basic FGF ir nerve cells were found in all layers of both the neocortex and allocortex. Within the caudate putamen and the nucleus accumbens a low density of weak bFGF ir neuronal profiles was detected. The majority of the thalamic nuclei showed medium to high densities of moderate to strong bFGF ir neuronal profiles. All the hypothalamic nuclei, with the exception of the anterior and lateral hypothalamic area and of the ventral hypothalamic nucleus, contained a high density of bFGF ir profiles. The pons and the medulla oblongata were characterized by the presence of a large number of nuclei containing moderate to high densities of strong bFGF ir profiles. The Purkinje cell layer of the cerebellar cortex contained a high density of moderately bFGF ir profiles. A moderate density of strong bFGF ir nerve cell profiles was observed within all the laminae of the spinal cord, except within the II and III laminae where a high density of strongly ir profiles was found. Histogram analysis of total immunoreactivity showed that the distribution of bFGF ir profiles within the telencephalon and mesencephalon tend to be similar with regard to the central tendency and spread. Using Kendall's tau, a significant correlation between intensity and density values was obtained only in the diencephalon. The cytoplasmic bFGF IR found in distinct nerve cell populations all over the rat brain and spinal cord may represent forms of bFGF which can be released from the nerve cells via non-exocytotic mechanisms in view of the absence of an intracellular signal peptide in bFGF. The presence of nuclear bFGF IR within the glial cells all over the central nervous system (CNS) suggests an intracellular function of bFGF, such as the promotion of mitogenesis and/or participation in the transcriptional regulation of various genes.

The emergence of child neurology as an independent discipline was enhanced by pediatricians developing an organ system approach to the study of illnesses of children and indirectly by their interest in normal psychomotor development, a function of maturation of the nervous system. Technological innovations, advances in neuroimaging, and the development of therapeutic agents directly benefited patients with neurologic disorders and enhanced the role of the neurologist. The American Board of Psychiatry and Neurology was founded in 1934. It formally recognized child neurology as a special area of expertise in 1959 when Sidney Carter was appointed as a director and the clinical examination was changed to include an hour devoted specifically to child neurology. In 1969, special certificates in child neurology were issued. Thirty candidates, or more, have successfully passed the examination each year since then. As of Spring 1995, there had been 1007 certificates issued to child neurologists. In 1991 and 1992, alternative pathways to training in child neurology were developed. These substituted a year of internal medicine or a year of basic neuroscience research for 1 year of pediatrics. Relatively few child neurologists have chosen these alternative pathways. The performance of child neurologists, on Board examinations has generally been comparable to that of adult neurologists with the latter holding a slight edge. In 1990, a study of first-time takers of the certification examination was begun. In child neurology, 54% of the cohort passed both parts I and II on their first attempts, and as of July 1995, 81% of the original cohort was certified. In adult neurology, the comparable rates are 56% and 84%. Accreditation of child neurology training programs began in 1987. As of November 1995, there were 75 accredited child neurology training programs, which offered slightly over 200 total positions. Changes in health care delivery are currently taking place and have placed greater emphasis on primary care physicians. Proposals have been put forth that, if enacted, will reduce the current number of medical students and also reduce the total number of residents being trained. Reductions as great as 40% of current resident number have been proposed. Child neurology will need to reassess our current work force and training needs and re-evaluate our role in the training of primary care physicians. There appears to be a paradox. Explosions of information in both the basic and clinical neurosciences have directly benefited our patients, but yet our continued growth as a subspecialty is being challenged.
The Glasgow Coma Scale is a commonly used instrument in clinical practice. This article examines the published evidence to assess whether the scale possesses the requisite clinimetric properties. Articles describing and using the scale were located through a MEDLINE search. The clinimetric properties of the scale were appraised using the methodological principles of sensibility, reliability, validity, and responsiveness. The scale has a good sensibility and reliability (intraclass correlation coefficient, 0.8 to 1 for trained users). It has a well-established cross-sectional construct validity. Its predictive validity in traumatic coma, when combined with age and brainstem reflexes, is good in the generating sample (sensitivity, 79 to 97%; specificity, 84-97%) but has not been tested in an external validation sample. Its longitudinal construct validity has not been studied adequately. Thus, the scale is an established discriminative instrument but its validity as a predictive and an evaluative instrument has not yet been studied adequately.
Over the last few decades two new modalities of treatment have been added to the therapy of cerebral arteriovenous malformations: stereotactic radiosurgery and angiographic embolisation. The aim of this review is to discuss surgery and the newer modalities of treatment with particular reference to an integrated multimodal approach to therapy.
Physiological and pharmacological studies have suggested that kappa opioid receptors (KORs) may be located presynaptically in the guinea pig hippocampal formation. In the present study, KOR-like immunoreactivity (-LI) was examined by using a rabbit antibody raised against a synthetic peptide from the carboxyl terminus of a cloned rat kappa receptor (KT). The specificity of affinity-purified KT antibody was confirmed by Western blotting, enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay, immunolabeling of KORs expressed in Xenopus oocytes, and immunocytochemical preadsorption controls. Specificity also was demonstrated by the light microscopic distribution of KT-LI in sections through the forebrain and the pons, which was largely consistent with the distribution of KORs previously reported, and resembled that of immunoreactivity for dynorphin B, an endogenous ligand for KORs. Detailed analysis of the hippocampal formation revealed that KT-LI was located predominantly in thin processes in the granule cell and inner molecular layers of the dentate gyrus. A few KT-labeled processes were also present in stratum lacunosum-moleculare of the CA1 region and all layers of the CA3 region of the hippocampus. By electron microscopy, KT-LI was restricted to unmyelinated axons and axon terminals, and was associated with plasma membranes, large dense-core vesicles, and cytoplasmic surfaces of small vesicles. In the dentate gyrus, immunolabeled terminals formed asymmetric synapses with granule cell perikarya and large unlabeled dendrites. In the CA3 region of hippocampus, KT-LI was present in small unmyelinated axons. The results of this study 1) demonstrate the specificity of the KT antibody, 2) show that the distribution of KT labeling corresponds well with previous KOR and dynorphin localization in many regions, and 3) provide ultrastructural evidence that KORs are located presynaptically in the guinea pig hippocampal formation.
To determine the number of L-channel populations responsible for producing the two components of whole-cell L-type Ca2+ channel current revealed by Bay K 8644 (Fass, D.M., and E.S. Levitan. 1996. J. Gen. Physiol. 108:1-11), L-type Ca2+ channel activity was recorded in cell-attached patches. Ensemble tail currents from most (six out of nine) single-channel patches had double-exponential time courses, with time constants that were similar to whole-cell tail current decay values. Also, in single-channel patches subjected to two different levels of depolarization, ensemble tail currents exactly reproduced the voltage dependence of activation of the two whole-cell components: The slow component is activated at more negative potentials than the fast component. In addition, deactivation of Bay K 8644-modified whole-cell L-current was slower after long (100-ms) depolarizations than after short (20-ms) depolarizations, and this phenomenon was also evident in ensemble tail currents from single L-channels. Thus, a single population of L-channels can produce the two components of macroscopic L-current deactivation. To determine how individual L-channels produce multiple macroscopic tail current components, we constructed ensemble tail currents from traces that contained a single opening upon repolarization and no reopenings. These ensemble tails were biexponential. This type of analysis also revealed that reopenings do not contribute to the slowing of tail current deactivation after long depolarizations. Thus, individual L-channels must have access to several open states to produce multiple macroscopic current components. We also obtained evidence that access to these open states can vary over time. Use of several open states may give L-channels the flexibility to participate in many cell functions.
Whole-cell L-type Ca2+ channel current was recorded in GH3 clonal rat pituitary cells using Ba2+ as a charge carrier. In the presence of the dihydropyridine agonist Bay K 8644, deactivation was best described by two exponential components with time constants of approximately 2 and approximately 8 ms when recorded at -40 mV. The slow component activated at more negative potentials than the fast component: Half-maximal activation for the slow and fast components occurred at approximately -15 and approximately 1 mV, respectively. The fast component was more sensitive to enhancement by racemic Bay K 8644 than the slow component: ED50fast = approximately 21 nM, ED50slow = approximately 74 nM. Thyrotropin-releasing hormone (TRH; 1 microM) inhibited the slow component by approximately 46%, whereas the fast component was inhibited by approximately 22%. TRH inhibition of total L-current showed some voltage dependence, but each Bay K 8644-revealed component of L-current was inhibited in a voltage-independent manner. Therefore, the apparent voltage dependence of TRH action is derived from complexities in channel gating rather than from relief of inhibition at high voltages. In summary, Bay K 8644-enhanced L-currents in GH3 cells consist of two components with different sensitivities to voltage, racemic Bay K 8644, and the neuropeptide TRH.
There has been increasing interest in the semantic cognitive system in schizophrenia. Recent findings suggest a possible breakdown of semantic information processing in this disorder. The current study attempts to further examine semantic organization in schizophrenia. Twenty-eight chronic, early-onset schizophrenic patients and 32 controls were matched for premorbid intelligence and compared in their ability to spontaneously cluster exemplars from a specific category during a fluency task. Using multidimensional scaling and clustering techniques, 11 exemplars occurring most frequently in both groups were chosen for examination of their relative &quot;proximity&quot; during word generation. Patients with schizophrenia showed a less stable two-dimensional organization of exemplars and were less likely to group exemplars into subordinate clusters than were normals. These results suggest that semantic networks are disorganized in these patients. These findings may have some implications for the debate over the origin of &quot;thought disorder&quot; in schizophrenia.
We previously reported that annexin V promoted the survival of cultured rat neocortical neurons. In an effort to elucidate the mechanism underlying this neurotrophic activity of annexin V, we have attempted to identify the target or binding proteins of annexin V in neuronal cells. Herein, we screened an embryonic day 17 rat brain cDNA library by western blot using glutathione S-transferase-annexin V fusion protein as a probe and then isolated four clones showing binding to annexin V in a Ca2+ - and phospholipid-dependent manner. Although these cDNAs encoded different polypeptides, all four polypeptides shared the unique feature of containing highly hydrophilic stretches with high Lys, Glu, and Ser contents. Deduced amino acid sequences of two clones showed high homology with human X-linked Helicase2 (XH2) and DNA (cytosine-5) methyltransferase (DMTase) sequences, whereas the other two were not related to any known peptide sequence. These results suggest that XH2 and DMTase are candidates for annexin V-binding proteins and thus may mediate the biological activity of annexin V.
Recent work indicates an important role for excitatory amino acids in behavioral sensitization to amphetamine. We therefore examined, using in vivo microdialysis in awake rats, the effects of amphetamine on efflux of glutamate, aspartate, and serine in the ventral tegmental area and nucleus accumbens, brain regions important for the initiation and expression of amphetamine sensitization, respectively. Water-pretreated and amphetamine-pretreated rats were compared to determine if sensitization altered such effects. In both brain regions, Ca2+-dependent efflux of glutamate accounted for approximately 20% of basal glutamate efflux. A challenge injection of water or 2.5 mg/kg of amphetamine did not significantly alter glutamate, aspartate, or serine efflux in the ventral tegmental area or nucleus accumbens of water- or amphetamine-pretreated rats. However, 5 mg/kg of amphetamine produced a gradual increase in glutamate efflux in both regions that did not reverse, was observed in both water- and amphetamine-pretreated rats, and was prevented by haloperidol. Although increased glutamate efflux occurred with too great a delay to mediate acute behavioral responses to amphetamine, it is possible that repeated augmentation of glutamate efflux during repeated amphetamine administration results in compensatory changes in levels of excitatory amino acid receptors in the ventral tegmental area and nucleus accumbens that contribute to development of expression of amphetamine sensitization.
In Alzheimer's disease (AD), one of the cardinal neuropathological signs is deposition of amyloid, primarily consisting of the amyloid beta-peptide (Abeta). Structural variants of AD-associated Abeta peptides have been difficult to purify by high-resolution chromatographic techniques. We therefore developed a novel chromatographic protocol, enabling high-resolution reverse-phase liquid chromatography (RPLC) purification of Abeta variants displaying very small structural differences. By using a combination of size-exclusion chromatography and the novel RPLC protocol, Abeta peptides extracted from AD amyloid were purified and subsequently characterized. Structural analysis by microsequencing and electrospray-ionization mass spectrometry revealed that the RPLC system resolved a complex mixture of Abeta variants terminating at either residue 40 or 42. Abeta variants differing by as little as one amino acid residue could be purified rapidly to apparent homogeneity. The resolution of the system was further illustrated by its ability to separate the structural isomers of Abeta1-40. The present chromatography system might provide further insight into the role of N-terminally and posttranslationally modified Abeta variants, because each variant can now be studied individually.
Cavernous angiomas are vascular malformations that cause neurodegeneration and symptoms including epileptiform seizures, headache, and motor deficits. Following neurosurgical removal of the angiomas, patients mostly recover well and become seizure-free. This study reports on the levels of certain amino acids in angiomas, obtained from 13 patients. Distinct zones of the angiomas were analyzed, from the thrombotic core, via gliotic, hemosiderin-infiltrated intermediate zones, to a periphery without macroscopic abnormalities. The neurotransmitter amino acids glutamate, aspartate, and GABA as well as phosphoethanolamine displayed decreasing levels from the periphery to the core, reflecting the gradual neuronal loss. Compared with normal brain tissue, there was a marked increase in the levels of serine (fivefold), glycine (10-fold), and ethanolamine (20-fold) in the peripheral zone of the cavernous angiomas. The results are discussed in relation to seizures and NMDA receptor activation, neuron-glia interactions, membrane phospholipids, and blood-brain barrier function.
The biosynthesis of peptides requires the synthesis of the prohormone, several biosynthetic processing enzymes, and other granule constituents. We have investigated the regulated expression of proopiomelanocortin (POMC) and five enzymes essential for the processing of POMC to smaller, bioactive peptides in intermediate pituitary melanotropes. Rats were treated with a dopaminergic agonist (bromocriptine) or antagonist (haloperidol) for periods ranging from 1 h to 5 days, followed by analyses of mRNA levels and protein biosynthetic rates. Multiplex RNase protection assays showed that bromocriptine treatment caused a striking decrease in POMC mRNA levels, and significant decreases in mRNA levels for prohormone convertase 2 (PC2), carboxypeptidase H (CPH), and peptidylglycine alpha-amidating monooxygenase (PAM). Smaller increases in mRNA levels were seen after haloperidol stimulation. Protein biosynthetic rates changed more profoundly than mRNA levels at short drug treatment times, indicating a role for translational effects after treatment with bromocriptine and with haloperidol. The homogeneous population of melanotropes in the intermediate lobe of the pituitary allows a quantitative analysis of transcript levels and biosynthetic rates. POMC mRNA levels are 200-1,000-fold higher than levels of any of the processing enzyme mRNAs, and POMC biosynthetic rates exceed those of PC2, PC1, and PAM by 1,000-10,000-fold.
Corticotropin-releasing hormone (CRH) neurons in the paraventricular nucleus (PVN) of the hypothalamus and in the central nucleus of the amygdala (ACE) participate in neurohumoral and behavioral responses to stress. To understand better the central regulation of CRH, the present study assessed the effects of ipsilateral surgical hemisection of the brainstem on expression of CRH mRNA in the PVN and the ACE. In situ hybridization was used to demonstrate PVN CRH mRNA expression in hemisected, sham-operated or intact rats before and after 3 h of immobilization (IMMO). In addition, hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenocortical (HPA) axis activity at baseline and during IMMO was assessed by measurements of plasma concentrations of ACTH and corticosterone. IMMO markedly increased CRH mRNA expression in the PVN in all experimental groups. Rats with brainstem hemisections had lower PVN CRH mRNA expression ipsilateral to the lesion and markedly blunted responses after IMMO, compared to values in sham-operated rats. In contrast, neither hemisection nor IMMO affected CRH mRNA expression in the ACE. Lesioned and SHAM-operated groups did not differ in baseline or IMMO-induced increases in plasma ACTH or corticosterone levels. The present results indicate that baseline levels and IMMO-induced increments in CRH mRNA expression in the PVN, but not in the ACE, depend on ipsilaterally ascending medullary tracts and that IMMO-induced HPA activation does not depend on these pathways.
The interrelations between sympathoadrenal (SA) system and hypothalamo-pituitary-adrenocortical (HPA) or hypothalamo-pituitary-thyroid (HPT) system during cold stress were examined by measuring plasma levels of dihydroxyphenylalanine (DOPA), catecholamine and their metabolites in adrenalectomized (ADX) and thyroidectomized (TX) rats exposed to cold stress (-3 degrees C). Plasma levels of adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH), corticosterone (CORT), thyroid-stimulating hormone (TSH) and thyroid hormones in cold-stressed rats were measured also. Plasma ACTH levels were increased transiently after 1 h of cold exposure, after which the circadian rhythm and plasma levels of ACTH were similar to those of normal rats. Plasma CORT levels were also elevated after 1 h of cold exposure; the increased levels of CORT tended to return to normal levels after 9 h of cold, but remained higher than those of normal rats during at least 24 h of cold exposure. Plasma ACTH levels of 5 day cold-stressed rats were no longer elevated above those of control rats and plasma CORT levels were only slightly higher than in control animals. However, plasma levels of TSH and free thyroid hormones were elevated after 1 day and remained elevated after 5 days of cold exposure. Thus, cold stress appears to activate chronically the HPT system, but only transiently activates the HPA system. ADX rats had higher basal plasma levels of dihydroxyphenylglycol (DHPG), methoxyhydroxyphenylglycol (MHPG), DOPA and homovanillic acid (HVA) than those of sham-operated (SHAM) rats, but norepinephrine (NE) levels were not significantly greater than in SHAM animals. TX rats had higher basal plasma levels of NE, epinephrine (EPI) and dopamine (DA), as well as much higher plasma levels of the metabolites. Exposure to cold increased plasma NE levels in both ADX and TX rats, but the increments in TX rats were much greater than in SHAM and ADX groups. Plasma EPI levels were not significantly elevated during cold exposure in SHAM rats, but were highly elevated in TX rats exposed to cold. TX rats had much larger increments in plasma levels of DHPG, MHPG, DA, dihydroxyphenylacetic acid (DOPAC) and HVA during cold exposure than those of SHAM and ADX rats. These results are consistent with the view that endogenous glucocorticoids restrain responses of catecholamine synthesis, release, reuptake, and metabolism in sympathetic nervous system of cold-stressed animals, but that in the absence of an effective HPT system, there is enhanced sympathoadrenal medullary function and augmentation of their responses to cold as a means for maintaining body temperature when the HPT thermogenesis system is impaired.
Severe, symptomatic carotid artery disease is most often diagnosed by conventional cerebral angiography. Noninvasive tests are commonly used to identify candidates for angiography and endarterectomy. The purpose of this study, a mail and telephone survey of academic and community neurologists, neurosurgeons, and vascular surgeons in Rhode Island in 1994, was to determine which noninvasive tests physicians used to evaluate these patients and how the test results were used to select patients for angiography. One hundred (86%) of a possible 116 responses were collected. Seventy-six percent of physicians chose carotid duplex ultrasound as the first diagnostic test, a percentage significantly higher than that for any other test (p &lt; 0.0001). Fourteen percent chose angiography without a prior screening test; 3% chose magnetic resonance angiography (MRA) prior to angiography, 6% chose carotid duplex ultrasound plus MRA prior to angiography, and 1% chose MRA without angiography. The specific noninvasive test results required for angiography referral were surprisingly variable, both within and across the three physician specialties. Vascular surgeons and neurosurgeons were more likely to choose angiography without prior screening tests than were neurologists. In conclusion, the majority of specialty physicians in the state of Rhode Island chose carotid ultrasound as the screening test of choice for the evaluation of a potential endarterectomy candidate. Few responding physicians chose MRA in combination with carotid duplex ultrasound prior to angiography, or MRA prior to angiography or MRA alone. Awareness of the actual practice patterns of specialists may lead to programs of education for physicians to improve practice and patient outcome through more refined use of diagnostic tests prior to angiography or endarterectomy.

We present a female neonate in her second week of life with borderline microcephaly, microphthalmia and progressive ascending sensory and motor deficit leading to complete paralysis with respiratory failure and death at 27 days of age. Neurological imaging revealed, in addition to cerebral atrophy, marked hydrocephalus, ependymal basal ganglia calcification, leptomeningeal enhancement, and patchy myelitis throughout the entire spinal cord. CSF cytological examination revealed the presence of a mononuclear pleocytosis with Toxoplasma gondii trophozoites free in the CSF and within the cytoplasm of some macrophages, and a 100-fold raised protein content. To our knowledge, this is the first reported case of clinical acute spinal cord involvement in congenital toxoplasma infection, proven by the presence of toxoplasma trophozoite in the CSF.
1. Hebbian or associative synaptic plasticity has been proposed to play an important role in learning and memory. Whereas many behaviorally relevant stimuli are time-varying, most experimental and theoretical work on synaptic plasticity has focused on stimuli or induction protocols without temporal structure. Recent theoretical studies have suggested that associative plasticity sensitive to only the conjunction of pre- and postsynaptic activity is not an effective learning rule for networks required to learn time-varying stimuli. Our goal in the current experiment was to determine whether associative long-term potentiation (LTP) is sensitive to temporal structure. We examined whether the presentation of unpaired presynaptic pulses in addition to paired pre- and postsynaptic activity altered the induction of associative LTP. 2. By using intracellular recordings from CA1 pyramidal cells, associative long-term potentiation (LTP) was induced in a control pathway by pairing a single presynaptic pulse with postsynaptic depolarization every 5 s (50-70 x). The experimental pathway received the same training, with additional unpaired presynaptic pulses delivered in close temporal proximity, either after or before associative pairing. Five separate sets of experiments were performed with intervals of -200, -50, +50, +200, or +800 ms. Negative intervals indicate that the unpaired presynaptic pulse was presented before the depolarizing pulse. Our results showed that the presence of unpaired presynaptic pulses, occurring either before or after pairing, did not significantly alter the magnitude of LTP. 3. The experimental design permitted an analysis of whether changes in paired-pulse facilitation (PPF) occur as a result of associative LTP. The average degree of PPF was the same before and after LTP. However, there was a significant inverse correlation between the initial degree of PPF and the degree of PPF after LTP. There was no relationship between the change in PPF, and whether the first or second pulse had been paired with depolarization. 4. These results indicate that the presence of unpaired presynaptic pulses does not alter the induction of synaptic plasticity, suggesting that plasticity of the Schaffer collateral-CA1 synapse is primarily conjunctive rather than correlative.
1. Tetanic stimulation of lamprey sensory dorsal cells resulted in a posttetanic hyperpolarization (PTH). The amplitude and duration of the PTH were dependent on the stimulus duration and frequency. The PTH was not reversed at membrane potentials negative to -100 mV, whereas the afterhyperpolarization following single action potentials reversed at approximately -85 mV. There was also a biphasic effect on the input resistance during the PTH, with an early reduction that recovered to control before the PTH had decayed. 2. The amplitude and duration of the PTH were increased in Ringer solution containing tetraethylammonium and 4-aminopyridine, both of which broadened single action potentials, but were reduced after intracellular injection of Cs+. Ca(2+)-free Ringer solution, Cd2+, and Co2+ also reduced the PTH, suggesting the involvement of a Ca(2+)-dependent K+ conductance. However, the PTH was not reduced in Ba2+ Ringer solution, or by the Ca(2+)-dependent K+ channel antagonists apamin and charybdotoxin. 3. The cardiac glycoside ouabain reduced the amplitude and duration of the PTH, as did substitution of Na+ with choline or Li+. K(+)-free Ringer solution also reduced the PTH, whereas high-K+ Ringer solution had more variable effects. The amplitude and duration of the PTH were also dependent on temperature. These results support the involvement of an ouabain-sensitive Na-K pump in the PTH. 4. The PTH was reduced by the tachykinins substance P and physalaemin, and by 5-hydroxytryptamine, which blocks apamin-sensitive Ca(2+)-dependent K+ channels in the lamprey. However, gamma-aminobutyric acid, which has been reported to reduce a Ca(2+)-dependent K+ conductance in the dorsal cells, did not reduce the PTH. 5. These results suggest that a Ca(2+)-dependent K+ conductance and an Na-K electrogenic pump underlie the PTH. The PTH reduces the excitability of the dorsal cells, suggesting that it may act as a mechanism to gate sensory information entering the spinal cord.
1. The role of gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) on the pattern generation properties of neuronal ensembles in the olivocerebellar system was studied utilizing multiple electrode recordings of complex spikes (CSs) from rat crus 2a Purkinje cells (PCs). Initially multiple electrode experiments were combined with microinjections of picrotoxin into the inferior olive (IO). To corroborate the picrotoxin findings, the cerebellar nuclei, a major source of the GABAergic terminals in the IO, were chemically lesioned with the use of microinjections of kainic acid and N-methyl-D-aspartate. Both procedures generated comparable results. 2. After intraolivary picrotoxin injection there was an increase in the average firing rate, synchrony, and rhythmicity of spontaneous CS activity. In addition, the neuronal oscillation frequency tended to shift to lower frequencies. 3. The spatial distribution of synchronous CS activity in control conditions displayed a predominantly rostrocaudal orientation. Injection of picrotoxin to the IO disrupted this rostrocaudal organization and led to synchronous CS activity among PCs throughout crus 2a. Similar effects were observed relating to the distribution of CSs evoked via the &quot;climbing fiber reflex,&quot; in which antidromic activation of the climbing fibers is followed by a return excitation that is mediated by the gap junctions between olivary neurons. 4. Chemical lesions of the cerebellar nuclei resulted in increased CS average firing rates. The effect of the lesions on CS synchronicity was similar to that following the picrotoxin injections, but greater in magnitude. In contrast to the olivary picrotoxin injections, the cerebellar nuclear lesions did not lead to an enhanced CS rhythmicity. 5. Bilateral recordings from left and right crus 2a demonstrated significant interhemispheric synchronization of CS activity, consistent with a previous report. Both unilateral olivary injections of picrotoxin and unilateral cerebellar nuclear lesions resulted in increased synchronization of CS activity between the left and right crus 2a. 6. We conclude that the cerebellar nucleoolivary projection to the olivary glomeruli modulates the effective electrotonic coupling between olivary neurons, and thereby carves out ensembles of neurons whose activity is synchronized. Thus these two nuclei may form the basis for a flexible and sophisticated motor coordination system able to help generate the many distinct movements that organisms are capable of performing.
1. In intact turtles, tactile stimulation of the body surface in the &quot;shell pocket&quot; region surrounding the hindlimb elicits a pocket scratch reflex, in which the hindlimb reaches toward and rhythmically rubs the stimulated site. In the present study, we utilized reduced in vitro preparations of the turtle spinal cord with attached peripheral nerves to investigate the time course and pharmacology of sensory-evoked excitability in the pocket scratch neural network. Fictive pocket scratch motor output was elicited by electrically stimulating either the ventral-posterior pocket (VPP) cutaneous nerve or the distal D8 (d.D8) nerve. Both nerves contain afferents innervating part of the pocket scratch receptive field. 2. Six-segment (D7-S2) preparations of the spinal cord, which included the entire hindlimb enlargement, produced fictive pocket scratch motor output in response to VPP nerve stimulation (n = 6). We recorded fictive motor output as electroneurograms from up to five peripheral nerves in D7-S2 preparations, including three knee extensor muscle nerves (IT-KE, which innervates triceps femoris pars iliotibialis; AM-KE, which innervates pars ambiens; and FT-KE, which innervates pars femorotibialis), a hip flexor (protractor) muscle nerve (VP-HP, which innervates puboischiofemoralis internus, pars anteroventralis), and a mixed cutaneous-muscle nerve that exhibits hip-extensor-correlated motor output during the scratch (d.D8). The timing characteristics of activity in these nerves during in vitro motor patterns were similar to what has been observed during the in vivo pocket scratch. 3. Even a single segment of spinal cord from the anterior hindlimb enlargement (D8) contained sufficient neural circuitry to generate rhythmic motor patterns in AM-KE, VP-HP, and d.D8 nerves during repeated stimulation of VPP (n = 5) or d.D8 (n = 1). Stimulus trains delivered at 3-5 Hz for &gt; or = 6 s elicited one or more VP-HP bursts with clear burst terminations; in some cases, these were followed by distinct hip-extensor-correlated d.D8 bursts. AM-KE timing was characteristic of a pocket scratch synergy, beginning during the VP-HP burst and continuing after VP-HP offset. Thus even isolated D8 segments were capable of expressing rhythmic alternation between hip-flexor- and hip-extensor-correlated motor bursts as well as a pocket-scratch-specific knee-hip synergy. 4. A single electrical pulse delivered to the VPP or d.D8 nerve increased the excitability of the pocket scratch network in D7-S2 and D8 preparations for &gt; or = 5-10 s. We estimated the time course of increased excitability by observing the temporal summation of scratch motor output in response to single pulses applied to cutaneous afferents at multisecond intervals. Stimulus parameters were adjusted so that a single pulse delivered to a &quot;rested&quot; preparation (rested = no stimulation for &gt; 2 min) was at or just below threshold for evoking motor output. Single pulses delivered at 5- to 10-s intervals evoked strongly summating scratch motor output in D7-S2 and D8 preparations. These results show that neural mechanisms that store sensory-evoked excitation in the pocket scratch circuit exist within the spinal hindlimb enlargement and even within the isolated D8 segment. 5. With the use of in vitro preparations, we have begun to examine the pharmacology of sensorimotor processing in the pocket scratch network. Application of the N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor antagonist D-2-amino-5-phosphonovaleric acid (APV) (50-100 microM) to the spinal cord greatly reduced pocket scratch excitability. APV lowered the motor burst frequency of pocket scratch responses in D7-S2 preparations elicited by 3-Hz stimulation; it also reduced the amplitude of summating motor output in D7-S2 and D8 preparations in response to single electrical stimuli delivered at 5-s intervals. These results indicate that NMDA receptors have a key role in synaptic processing and sustained excitation within the pocket scratch neura
Summing localization describes the perceptions of human listeners to two identical sounds from different locations presented with delays of 0-1 msec. Usually a single source is perceived to be located between the two actual source locations, biased toward the earlier source. We studied neuronal responses within the space map of the barn owl to sounds presented with this same paradigm. The owl's primary cue for localization along the azimuth, interaural time difference (ITD), is based on a cross-correlation-like treatment of the signals arriving at each ear. The output of this cross-correlation is displayed as neural activity across the auditory space map in the external nucleus of the owl's inferior colliculus. Because the ear input signals reflect the physical summing of the signals generated by each speaker, we first recorded the sounds at each ear and computed their cross-correlations at various interstimulus delays. The resulting binaural cross-correlation surface strongly resembles the pattern of activity across the space map inferred from recordings of single space-specific neurons. Four peaks are observed in the cross-correlation surface for any nonzero delay. One peak occurs at the correlation delay equal to the ITD of each speaker. Two additional peaks reflect &quot;phantom sources&quot; occurring at correlation delays that match the signal of the left speaker in one ear with the signal of the right speaker in the other ear. At zero delay, the two phantom peaks coincide. The surface features are complicated further by the interactions of the various correlation peaks.
The synapse made by hippocampal mossy fibers onto pyramidal neurons of hippocampal area CA3 displays a form of long-term potentiation (LTP) that is independent of the activation of NMDA receptors. Considerable controversy exists as to whether the induction of mossy fiber LTP requires postsynaptic activation and, thus, whether mossy fiber LTP is Hebbian or non-Hebbian. Here we report the induction of both Hebbian and non-Hebbian forms of long-term potentiation at the mossy fiber-CA3 synapse in in vitro slice preparation. These two forms of potentiation can be induced selectively by different induction conditions. Sustained presynaptic activation is sufficient to induce the non-Hebbian form of mossy fiber LTP, whereas brief presynaptic activation coincident with postsynaptic depolarization is required to induce the Hebbian form. We suggest that non-Hebbian forms of plasticity may play an important role in dynamically regulating the thresholds for inducing Hebbian forms of plasticity.
Seizures cause a persistent enhancement in dentate synaptic inhibition concurrent with, and possibly compensatory for, seizure-induced hippocampal hyperexcitability. To study this phenomenon, we evoked status epilepticus in rats with systemic kainic acid (KA), and 2 weeks later assessed granule cell inhibition with paired-pulse stimulation of the perforant path (PP) in vitro. Controls demonstrated three components of paired-pulse inhibition: early inhibition (10-30 msec), intermediate facilitation (30-120 msec), and late inhibition (120 msec to 120 sec). After seizures, inhibition in all components was enhanced significantly. The GABA(A) antagonist bicuculline blocked only early enhanced inhibition, demonstrating that both GABA(A) and GABA(B) postsynaptic receptors contribute to seizure-induced enhanced inhibition. In controls, the GABA(B) antagonist CGP 35348 increased both GABA(A) and GABA(B) responses in granule cells, suggesting that CGP 35348 acts presynaptically, blocking receptors that suppress GABA release. In contrast, slices from KA-treated rats were markedly less sensitive to CGP 35348. To test the hypothesis that GABA(B) receptors regulating GABA release are downregulated after seizures, we measured paired-pulse suppression of recurrent IPSPs, or disinhibition, using mossy fiber stimuli. Early disinhibition (&lt; 200 msec) was reduced after seizures, whereas late disinhibition remained intact. CGP 35348 blocked the early component of disinhibition in controls and, to a lesser extent, reduced disinhibition in KA slices. However, paired monosynaptic IPSPs recorded intracellularly showed no difference in disinhibition between groups. Our findings indicate that seizure-induced enhancement in dentate inhibition is caused, at least in part, by reduced GABA(B) function in the polysynaptic recurrent inhibitory circuit, resulting in reduced disinhibition and heightened GABA release.
Amphetamine and cocaine induce the expression of both immediate early genes (IEGs) and neuropeptide genes in rat striatum. Despite the demonstrated dependence of these effects on D1 dopamine receptors, which activate the cyclic AMP pathway, there are several reports that amphetamine and cocaine-induced IEG expression can be inhibited in striatum in vivo by NMDA receptor antagonists. We find that in vivo, the NMDA receptor antagonist MK-801 inhibits amphetamine induction of c-fos acutely and also prevents downregulation of IEG expression with chronic amphetamine administration. Such observations raise the question of whether dopamine/glutamate interactions occur at the level of corticostriatal and mesostriatal circuitry or within striatal neurons. Therefore, we studied dissociated striatal cultures in which midbrain and cortical presynaptic inputs are removed. In these cultures, we find that dopamine- or forskolin-mediated IEG induction requires Ca2+ entry via NMDA receptors but not via L-type Ca2+ channels. Moreover, blockade of NMDA receptors diminishes the ability of dopamine to induce phosphorylation of the cyclic AMP responsive element binding protein CREB. Although these results do not rule out a role for circuit-level dopamine/glutamate interactions, they demonstrate a requirement at the cellular level for interactions between the cyclic AMP and NMDA receptor pathways in dopamine-regulated gene expression in striatal neurons.
mu-Opioid receptors and their endogenous ligands, including Leu5-enkephalin (LE), are distributed abundantly in the nucleus accumbens (NAC), a region implicated in mechanisms of opiate reinforcement. We used immunoperoxidase and/or immunogold-silver methods to define ultrastructural sites for functions ascribed to mu-opioid receptors and potential sites for activation by LE in the NAC. An antipeptide antibody raised against an 18 amino acid sequence of the cloned mu-opioid receptor (MOR) C terminus showed that MOR-like immunoreactivity (MOR-LI) was localized predominantly to extrasynaptic sites along neuronal plasma membranes. The majority of neuronal profiles containing MOR-LI were dendrites and dendritic spines. The dendritic plasma membranes immunolabeled for MOR were near sites of synaptic input from LE-labeled terminals and other unlabeled terminals forming either inhibitory or excitatory type synapses. Unmyelinated axons and axon terminals were also intensely but less frequently immunoreactive for MOR. Observed sites for potential axonal associations with LE included coexistence of MOR and LE within the same terminal, as well as close appositions between differentially labeled axons. Astrocytic processes rarely contained detectable MOR-LI, but also were sometimes observed in apposition to LE-labeled terminals. We conclude that in the rat NAC, MOR is localized prominently to extrasynaptic neuronal and more rarely to glial plasma membranes that are readily accessible to released LE and possibly other opioid peptides and opiate drugs. The close affiliation of MOR with spines receiving excitatory synapses and dendrites receiving inhibitory synapses provides the first direct morphological evidence that MOR selectively modulates postsynaptic responses to cortical and other afferents.
Multiple subtypes of voltage-gated calcium channels are coupled to transmitter release from central neurons; however, only N-type channels have been shown to play a role in autonomic neurons. The aim of the present study was to investigate potential roles for other channel subtypes in transmitter release from parasympathetic neurons in the mouse bladder using calcium channel toxins alone and in combination. Transmitter release was measured indirectly by recording the contraction of bladder dome strips in response to electrical stimulation of the neurons by single pulses or trains of 20 pulses at 1-50 Hz. omega-Conotoxin-GVIA (GVIA) and omega-conotoxin-MVIIC (MVIIC) inhibited contractions in a concentration-dependent manner, with IC50 values of approximately 30 and 200 nM, respectively, at low stimulation frequencies. omega-Agatoxin-IVA (agatoxin) alone did not have any significant effect up to 300 nM. Cumulative addition of the toxins demonstrated that 300 nM agatoxin had a significant effect after N-type channels were blocked with 100 nM GVIA. MVIIC (3 microM) reduced the contraction amplitude further. Testing the toxins on the cholinergic or purinergic component of the contraction separately showed that acetylcholine release depends primarily on N-type channels and, to a lesser extent, on P- and Q-type channels, whereas ATP release involves predominantly P- and Q-type channels. In conclusion, parasympathetic neurons in the mouse bladder, like central neurons, use multiple calcium channel subtypes. Furthermore, the release of the two main transmitters in these neurons has differing dependencies on the calcium channel subtypes.
Midbrain dopaminergic neurons are known to release dopamine from somata and/or dendrites located in the substantia nigra (SN) and the ventral tegmental area (VTA). There is considerable controversy, however, about the subcellular sites for somatodendritic dopamine storage in these regions. In the present study, we used dual-labeling electron microscopic immunocytochemistry to localize the vesicular monoamine transporter-2 (VMAT2), a novel marker for sites of intracellular monoamine storage, within identified dopaminergic (tyrosine hydroxylase-containing) neurons in the rat SN and VTA. In dopaminergic perikarya, immunogold labeling for VMAT2 was localized to the Golgi apparatus, tubulovesicles that resembled smooth endoplasmic reticulum (SER), and the limiting membranes of multivesicular bodies. In dopaminergic dendrites, VMAT2 was extensively localized to tubulovesicles that resembled saccules of SER, and less frequently localized to isolated small synaptic vesicles (SSVs) or large dense-core vesicles (DCVs). In rare cases, VMAT2-immunoreactive SSVs were clustered within the cytoplasm of an SN or a VTA dendrite. Dopaminergic dendrites in the VTA contained a significantly higher number of immunogold particles for VMAT2 per unit than those in the SN. Together, these observations support the proposal that dopamine is stored in and may be released from dendritic SSVs and DCVs, but suggest that the SER is the major site of dopamine storage within midbrain dopaminergic neurons. In addition, they provide new evidence that dopaminergic dendrites in the VTA may have greater potential for reserpine-sensitive storage and release of dopamine than those in the SN.
The period required for NMDA channels to open for the first time after agonist binding (the first latency) was estimated in outside-out patch recordings from rat hippocampal neurons using fast-application techniques and the open channel blocker MK-801. In the presence of MK-801, brief applications of L-glutamate or the low-affinity agonist L-cysteate resulted in a similar amount of block despite the much shorter period of channel activation by L-cysteate. A brief coapplication of L-glutamate and MK-801 resulted in a block similar to that found with an application of L-glutamate in a background of MK-801. These results, along with our findings that MK-801 does not block desensitized receptors, indicate that NMDA channels have a mean first latency of approximately 10 msec, consistent with a peak open probability near 0.3. If NMDA channels at synapses behave similarly, relatively few channels would be required to produce the postsynaptic calcium transient associated with synaptic plasticity and developmental regulation.
Cholinergic stimulation of the hippocampal formation results in excitation and/or seizure. We report here, using whole-cell patch-clamp techniques in the hippocampal slice (34-35 degrees C), a cholinergic-dependent slow afterdepolarization (sADP) and long-lasting plateau potential (PP). In the presence of 20 microM carbachol, action potential firing evoked by weak intracellular current injection elicited an sADP that lasted several seconds. Increased spike firing evoked by stronger depolarizing stimuli resulted in long-duration PPs maintained close to -20 mV. Removal of either Na+ or Ca2+ from the external media, intracellular Ca2+ ([Ca2+]i) chelation with 10 mM bis(2-aminophenoxy)ethane-N,N,N',N'-tetra-acetic acid, or the addition of 100 microM Cd2+ to the perfusate abolished both the sADP and PP. The sADP was depressed and the PP was abolished by either 10 microM nimodipine or 1 microM omega-conotoxin, whereas 1.2 microM tetrodotoxin was ineffective. The involvement of a Na+/Ca2+ exchanger was minimal because both the sADP and PP persisted after equimolar substitution of 50 mM Li+ for Na+ in the external media or reduction of the bath temperature to 25 degrees C. Finally in the absence of carbachol the sADP and PP could not be evoked when K+ channels were suppressed, suggesting that depression of K+ conductances alone was not sufficient to unmask the conductance. Based on these data, we propose that a Ca2+-activated nonselective cation conductance was directly enhanced by muscarinic stimulation. The sADP, therefore, represents activation of this conductance by residual [Ca2+]i, whereas the PP represents a novel regenerative event involving the interplay between high-voltage-activated Ca2+ channels and the Ca2+-activated nonselective cation conductance. This latter mechanism may contribute significantly to ictal depolarizations observed during cholinergic-induced seizures.
A comprehensive and flexible arrangement for Digital long-term Acquisition and Processing of Analog Signals (DAPAS) has been developed. It is especially designed for neurophysiological laboratories and mainly based on IBM-compatible PC components. A/D converters are used, which allow sampling rates of up to 100 kHz (up to 16 bits, 1-16 channels). Signals are stored continuously on DOS devices and on a fast tape streamer, which uses standard video-8 tapes, and which is 2.8 times faster than DAT-based systems. As the recording speed is adapted to the sampling rate, one tape allows recording times of (uncompressed) data acquired at a sampling rate of 100 or 10 kHz of 6.8 and 68 h, respectively. Using a coprocessor-video device, recordings may be scrolled on- or off-line on the screen. In addition, up to eight multi-channel oscilloscopes are displayed simultaneously. DAPAS allows the use of a conventional matrix printer which can act as an inertia-free multi-pen recorder. Defined stored signals are recalled by means of a time code or textual markers. All sections of recordings lasting milliseconds to hours may be displayed within seconds. DAPAS supports export filters for further processing. Thus, this system replaces analog devices (multi-pen recorder, oscilloscope, data recorder), and enables quick, complete digital processing and analysis of neurophysiological data.
Schwann cells, an important component of the peripheral nervous system, interact with neurons to mutually support growth and replication in the embryo and survival and differentiated function in the adult. The ability of adult Schwann cells to re-enter the cell cycle after nerve injury is crucial to their role in nerve repair. This ability suggests that it should be possible to obtain non-transformed, cell lines which maintain the characteristics of proliferating adult Schwann cells in vivo, as well as obtaining Schwann cells from rapidly dividing embryonic tissues. One approach to obtaining normal functionally differentiated cell lines has been to start primary cultures in serum-free medium containing growth factors and attachment proteins specifically selected to favor the replication of the cell type of interest. By culturing dispersed dorsal root ganglia on laminin, in serum-free medium with hormones and growth factors, we repeatedly generate homogenous Schwann cell cultures which yield normal Schwann cell lines from the dorsal root ganglia (DRG) of both embryonic and adult rats. These cells maintain the phenotype of Schwann cells as determined by morphology and staining for GFAP, S100, p75 NGF receptor, laminin, and MAG production in co-culture with DRG neurons.
The enzyme catalase is present in relatively small amounts in neural tissue. A standard spectrophotometric assay for catalase has been modified to make it suitable both for automated assay with a plate reader and for the analysis of neural cell cultures. Catalase activity is determined by measuring residual hydrogen peroxide after incubation with the enzyme. Ferrous ions and thiocyanate are used for the spectrophotometric determination of hydrogen peroxide. The stable visible absorption of ferrithiocyanate can be measured either with a plate reader or a spectrophotometer. The method assays catalase activity from single wells of a tissue culture plate containing 2-3 mg of embryonic rat mesencephalon.
The variability in the external gyri pattern of human brains has made the identification of specific cortical areas difficult. Studies correlating cortical structure and function have not consistently controlled for this variability. The aim of the present study was to develop a reliable and reproducible regimen for sampling five speech-associated and one non-speech associated cortical region in the human brain. The gyri of interest were labelled using non-aqueous dye prior to coronal slicing of brains at 3 mm intervals. Using the labelled gyri, a set of internal brain landmarks was established to aid in sampling one block of each cortical region of interest. The position of each internal landmark was determined as a percentage of the total brain length and breadth. The variability in the position of each internal landmark was investigated using analysis of variance and found to be consistent in three dimensions in all cases. The correlation of the sampled cortical region to the internal landmark was consistent in different cases with point to point agreement of 100%. This contrasts with the variability between cases in external gyri features. The sampled region was tested to determine cytoarchitectural variability by measuring the depth of each cortical layer. This technique found that the same cytoarchitectural regions were sampled in each case. As expected, these regions were distinguishable by the significant difference in the depth of different cortical layers. Accurate identification of both the external gyri and internal landmarks occurred with interrater point to point agreement of 90-100%.
The search for specific neurotrophic factors that will eventually be used to reduce or arrest the rate of degeneration of dopaminergic neurons in Parkinson's disease is being pursued by first testing the ability of putative compounds to increase the survival of dopaminergic neurons in primary cultures of the fetal, ventral mesencephalon. This research has intensified in recent years. The experimental procedures used by different laboratories in these studies differ widely, and meaningful comparisons of the results obtained are accordingly difficult to make. Some important experimental variables include the age of the fetal tissue used; the dissection technique used to isolate the ventral mesencephalon; the percentage of dopaminergic neurons present in the culture initially; handling of the tissue during dissection; the technique used to disperse the cells; the use of serum; the technique of plating the cells; the attachment factors used; detachment and loss of cells during the staining procedure; the age of the cultures at the time of analysis; the uneven distribution of cells at the time of analysis and the use of imaging techniques in the analysis. We show that when the E14 rat embryo is used, it is possible to consistently obtain a culture with 20% of tyrosine hydroxylase-positive neurons. Neither the plating density in the range of 7.8 x 10(3) to 1.25 x 10(5) cells/cm2, nor the percentage of serum in the growth medium affected the percentage of cells that expressed TH initially, at 4 or 12 h after plating. When the cells were plated as 25 microliters droplets, called microislands (area approximately 12.5 mm2), and allowed to attach before additional growth medium was added, cell density remained uniform at the center of the microisland for the duration of the culture. Restriction of the analysis of cell survival to the center of the microisland therefore helped to decrease the variability in counting that could occur when cells are dispersed over a larger area. In contrast, in an 8-well chamber slide or 35 mm petri dish, in which the whole area is plated, cell density was consistently higher at the edge (edge effect), versus the centre, by a factor of about three. The use of microisland cultures also has the additional benefit of increasing by a factor of about five the number of individual cultures that can be set up per liter, and a proportionate reduction in the number of animals used per experiment. When the percentage of serum in the growth medium was 0% always, or 10% for the first 12 h, and 0% thereafter, or 10% always, the number of TH-pos neurons per field (using a x 20 objective, column factor 1.25; area 320 microns2) after 5 days in culture (DIV5) was &lt; 1,3-8 and 14-22, respectively. Under the same experimental conditions, the number of neurons (MAP2-positive) per field was 5-8, 18-30 and 45-65 (N = 10 in all cases), respectively. Serum deprivation therefore has a highly deleterious effect on neuronal survival in culture. We suggest that cultures that were exposed to serum at any stage of the experiment, should not be referred to as &quot;serum-free', since even a brief exposure to serum exerts a protective effect on neurons, and especially on dopaminergic neurons. Instead, the percentage and kind of serum used, the exact usage, and the duration of exposure of the cells to serum should be stated. Finally, it is suggested that where possible, an imaging system with manual count and journaling capabilities be used in the analysis. The methods described are illustrated by dose-response curves of the neurotrophic effects of BDNF, NGF-beta and IL-6 versus percentage survival on dopaminergic neurons, when grown in serum-free medium throughout.
A new method to study the reactions to unexpected mechanical perturbations during human walking on a treadmill is presented. Perturbations consisted of an obstruction of the forward swinging foot during the early swing phase. These were caused by obstacles which were dropped on the treadmill in front of the subject. The timing of the perturbation was controlled by an electromagnet which released the obstacle at a preprogrammed delay after left or right heel strike. This kind of perturbation evoked stumbling reactions. The electromyographic (EMG) responses during these stumbling reactions had mean latencies of 76 ms in both the ipsilateral biceps femoris and rectus femoris when perturbations were applied in early swing. During the perturbed swing, increased flexion in the knee occurred to lift the foot over the obstacle. Both the EMG and kinesiologic responses were reproducible when perturbations were presented in the same part of the swing phase of different step cycles.
In order to analyze the structural organization of complex axonal arbors reconstructed from histological serial sections, and to investigate the functional implications of their geometrical properties, we developed software providing the following facilities: (1) direct importation of data files generated by a commercially available 3-D light-microscopic reconstruction system, including routine procedures for identification and correction of data acquisition errors; (2) real-time 3-D rotations of the arbors in the stack of serial sections; (3) multiple interactive display modes; (4) possibility of modifying diameter and/or connectivity of different branches; (5) simulation of the invasion of the arbor by a single action potential initiated at any chosen point, and visualization of spatio-temporal profiles of activation; (6) extraction of quantitative data converted to standard file formats compatible with available mathematical software. All these tools can be applied to single or multiple axons, individually or simultaneously. The software, called Maxsim, is a highly flexible C-written program running on graphical workstations using the UNIX operating system and X-Window environment.
Mice with a null mutation in the myogenic basic helixloop-helix regulatory gene myogenin have severe developmental muscle defects resulting in loss of secondary muscle fibers and perinatal death. In this study, we used the myogenin mutant mouse as a model to study the effects of the loss of secondary muscle fibers and the contribution of primary muscle fibers on the survival of motor neurons during programmed cell death. We demonstrate that in the absence of secondary skeletal muscle fibers there is complete survival of facial motor nucleus motor neurons and approximately 60% survival of spinal lumbar motor neurons in the myogenin mutant mouse. The surviving spinal motor neurons maintain axonal projections into the hindlimb and display aspects of synaptic contact into the remaining rudimentary fibers. These findings suggest that primary muscle fibers, representing approximately 10% of normal muscle mass, contribute significantly to the control of motor neuron cell survival in mammals.
Dopamine plays a pivotal role in the regulation and control of movement, motivation and cognition. It also is closely linked to reward, reinforcement and addiction. Abnormalities in brain dopamine are associated with many neurological and psychiatric disorders including Parkinson's disease, schizophrenia and substance abuse. This close association between dopamine and neurological and psychiatric diseases and with substance abuse make it an important topic in research in the neurosciences and an important molecular target in drug development. PET enables the direct measurement of components of the dopamine system in the living human brain. It relies on radiotracers which label dopamine receptors, dopamine transporters, precursors of dopamine or compounds which have specificity for the enzymes which degrade dopamine. Additionally, by using tracers that provide information on regional brain metabolism or blood flow as well as neurochemically specific pharmacological interventions, PET can be used to assess the functional consequences of changes in brain dopamine activity. PET dopamine measurements have been used to investigate the normal human brain and its involvement in psychiatric and neurological diseases. It has also been used in psychopharmacological research to investigate dopamine drugs used in the treatment of Parkinson's disease and of schizophrenia as well as to investigate the effects of drugs of abuse on the dopamine system. Since various functional and neurological parameters can be studied in the same subject, PET enables investigation of the functional integrity of the dopamine system in the human brain and investigation of the interactions of dopamine with other neurotransmitters. Through the parallel development of new radiotracers, kinetic models and better instruments, PET technology is enabling investigation of increasingly more complex aspects of the human brain dopamine system. This paper summarizes the different tracers and experimental strategies developed to evaluate the various elements of the dopamine system in the human brain with PET and their applications to clinical research.
The noradrenergic system is considered to be one of the major descending analgesia systems originating in the brainstem. The relationship between the periaqueductal gray (PAG) and the descending noradrenergic system is of great interest. A projection from the PAG to the locus ceruleus and parabrachial region has been reported. It is possible that electrical stimulation of the PAG activates spinally projecting collaterals of the noradrenergic cells in A5, the locus ceruleus, subceruleus and A7/Klliker-Fuse nucleus. The current experiments were designed to study the role of alpha-2 adrenoceptors on spinal cord dorsal Horn cells in PAG-induced inhibition. A microdialysis fiber was introduced into the dorsal horn of the lumbar enlargement for drug administration. An electrode was placed in the vicinity of the microdialysis fiber for extracellular single-unit recording. Recordings were made from a total of 35 cells from 22 Sprague-Dawley rats (270-360 g). When the PAG was stimulated, responses to mechanical stimuli applied to the skin (brush, press and pinch) were inhibited. When an alpha-2 adrenoceptor agonist (clonidine) was administered, the background activity and the responses of the cell to brush, press and pinch stimuli were decreased. In contrast, administration of alpha-2 adrenoceptor antagonists (idazoxan or yohimbine) increased the responses of the cell to brush, press and pinch stimuli. The background activity was also increased by idazoxan. The PAG-induced inhibition of the response to mechanical stimuli was reduced by idazoxan and yohimbine. These results suggest an involvement of alpha-2 adrenoceptors in the mechanism of PAG-induced inhibition of dorsal horn cell activity.
An extracellular electrophysiological approach was used to determine the effect of ethanol on responses to N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) across several brain regions in urethane-anesthetized rats. The results indicated that, in most brain regions, ethanol inhibited the NMDA-induced increases in firing rate for some, but not all, spontaneously active neurons. Ethanol functioned as an NMDA antagonist for some neurons in the medial septum, red nucleus, deep mesencephalic nucleus, substantia nigra reticulata, ventral tegmental area and cerebellum. In the hippocampus, ethanol inhibited NMDA responses from all neurons. However, ethanol was not found to be active against NMDA responses in the lateral septum, suggesting that there is a degree of regional specificity for ethanol inhibition of NMDA responses. It was then established in unanesthetized rats that ethanol also antagonized responses to NMDA in some, but not all, neurons in the medial septum and cortex, indicating that the differential action of ethanol on NMDA responses obtained in the urethane-anesthetized rats was not due to the anesthetic. Based on an earlier study showing that the effects of ifenprodil and ethanol on NMDA responses were correlated, the ability of ethanol to inhibit NMDA responses was compared with changes produced by ifenprodil on the same neurons, where ethanol did or did not affect NMDA responses. In the several brain regions investigated, ethanol inhibited NMDA responses in a subgroup of neurons in which ifenprodil inhibited NMDA-induced increases in firing. For all neurons investigated, if a cell was insensitive to ifenprodil antagonism of NMDA responses then ethanol also was ineffective against the response to NMDA. These results suggest that ethanol acts on an ifenprodil-sensitive NMDA receptor subtype. Given that previous investigations have suggested that the NMDA receptor type 2B subunit is essential for the action of ifenprodil, the positive relationship between the actions of ifenprodil and ethanol on responses to NMDA is consistent with the hypothesis that the combination of specific receptor subunits forming an NMDA receptor on a neuron determines the ability of ethanol to antagonize an NMDA response.
The SSRI antidepressants have emerged as effective new treatment for patients with premature ejaculation whether or not these patients suffer from depression. Clomipramine, fluoxetine, paroxetine, and sertraline seem to be a safe treatment option for patients with premature ejaculation, especially in cases of failed psychological treatment, in rejection of psychological treatment, and when partners are unwilling to cooperate in treatment. Further controlled and larger studies that focus on clinically relevant issues such as dose, length of treatment, maintenance of beneficial effects after treatment discontinuation, and the combination of pharmaco- and behavior therapy for premature ejaculation are warranted. Other medications, such as benzodiazepines, may be useful in some cases of premature ejaculation.
This review surveys the molecular mechanisms of long-term potentiation (LTP) from the point of view of a biochemist. On the basis of available data, LTP in area CA1 of the hippocampus is divided into three phases--initial, early, and late--and the mechanisms contributing to the induction and expression of each phase are examined. We focus on evidence for the involvement of various second messengers and their effectors as well as the biochemical strategies employed in each phase to convert a transient signal into a lasting change in the neuron. We also consider, from a biochemical perspective, the implications of a multiphase model for LTP.

To determine whether manipulation of time, temperature and intragranular pH could be used to distinguish the actions of two subtilisin-related endoproteases, PC1 and PC2, in peptide biosynthesis, the biosynthetic processing of proneuropeptide Y (proNPY) and proopiomelanocortin (POMC) was examined in pituitary cell lines. AtT-20 cells express PC1 and POMC endogenously; stably transfected AtT-20 lines expressing NPY or PC2 were studied. GH3 cells express PC2 endogenously; NPY-expressing GH3 transfectants were investigated. PC1 mediated rapid processing of NPY and POMC; PC1-dependent cleavages were relatively insensitive to 20 degrees C blockade (which arrests secretory pathway transport at the trans-Golgi network) and do not require an acidic intracellular compartment (as in secretory granules). PC2 mediated much slower processing of proNPY and POMC which was totally blocked at 20 degrees C and required an acidic intracellular compartment. Thus, kinetics, abolition of intracellular pH gradients, and incubation at reduced temperatures can be used to distinguish PC1 and PC2 actions in neuroendocrine cells.
To investigate factors governing proteolytic processing and routing of biologically active peptides in the secretory pathway, cDNAs for preproneuropeptide Y (preproNPY) and preproneuropeptide Y fused to a membrane anchor were transfected into pituitary cells. The anchor was the transmembrane and COOH-terminal cytoplasmic domain of peptidylglycine alpha-amidating monooxygenase (PAM); these domains are essential for correct routing of integral membrane forms of PAM. Like proneuropeptide Y (proNPY), the integral membrane form of proNPY was a good substrate for the endogenous prohormone convertases, yielding soluble NPY stored in regulated secretory granules. Tethering of proNPY to the membrane resulted in only a small delay in the rate of cleavage to produce mature NPY and in the arrival of NPY in regulated secretory granules. In contrast, the COOH-terminal region of proNPY remained attached to the transmembrane/COOH-terminal domain of PAM and was rerouted to the vicinity of the trans-Golgi network, where integral membrane forms of PAM are concentrated. Thus, the COOH-terminal of proNPY cannot override the signals in the PAM membrane anchor.

Despite staggering advances in the neurosciences over the past decade, detailed knowledge of the pathophysiology and pathogenesis of psychiatric disorders remains severely limited. Similarly, the mechanisms by which long-term exposure to psychotropic drugs leads to their clinically relevant actions are not yet known. This relative lack of progress in psychiatric research is due in part to the extraordinary complexity of the brain and the difficulties inherent in studying central nervous system pathology. However, the lack of progress is also due to the limited scope of psychiatric neuroscience, which remains focused to a great extent on traditional neurotransmitters and their receptors as the site of pathophysiological lesions in a disease state and as the ultimate targets for pharmacological treatments of these disorders. This limited focus persists despite our current knowledge that such neurotransmitters and receptors are truly the tip of the iceberg of the brain's complex inter- and intraneuronal regulatory machinery. The goal of this review is to illustrate how our rapidly evolving knowledge of neuronal regulatory mechanisms can be used as a template within which to delineate more complete models of the molecular mechanisms of psychotropic drug action, as well as the role of genetic and environmental factors in determining individual differences in drug responsiveness. The focus of the review is on drug addiction. Repeated exposure to drugs of abuse has been shown to elicit long-term adaptations in post-receptor second messenger and protein phosphorylation pathways in specific brain regions. There is increasing evidence that these adaptations are part of the molecular basis of an addictive state. Individual differences in some of these same signaling proteins also may contribute to individual differences in vulnerability for drug addiction. More recent research has demonstrated that drug-induced adaptations occur in other, non-second messenger-related, post-receptor signaling pathways, specifically, those influenced by neurotrophic factors. Together, these studies provide insight into the complex mechanisms that must be considered in understanding the brain's adaptations to chronic perturbations in general as well as the formation of a neuropsychiatric disorder and its treatment.

While there has been substantial experimental evidence in support of the telomere-telomerase hypothesis of aging and cancer, it has been suggested that the theory has been oversimplified to the exclusion of alternative mechanisms in the progression of cancer. This review strives to present an overview of some of the areas that have not been well explained and to indicate where multiple interpretations of the data are possible.

We model a two-eye visual environment composed of natural images and study its effect on single cell synaptic modification. In particular, we study the effect of binocular cortical misalignment on receptive field formation after eye opening. We show that binocular misalignment affects principal component analysis (PCA) and Bienenstock, Cooper, and Munro (BCM) learning in different ways. For the BCM learning rule this misalignment is sufficient to produce varying degrees of ocular dominance, whereas for PCA learning binocular neurons emerge in every case.
Recent reports have suggested that beta-amyloid (A beta) species of variable length C-termini are differentially deposited within early and late-stage plaques and the cerebrovasculature. Specifically, longer C-terminal length A beta 42/3 fragments (i.e., A beta forms extending to residues 42 and/or 43) are thought to be predominant within diffuse plaques while both A beta 42/3 and A beta 40 (A beta forms terminating at residue 40) are present within a subset of neuritic plaques and cerebrovascular deposits. We sought to clarify the issue of differential A beta deposition using aged canines, a partial animal model of Alzheimer's disease that exhibits extensive diffuse plaques and frequent vascular amyloid, but does not contain neuritic plaques or neurofibrillary tangles. We examined the brains of 20 aged canines, 3 aged felines, and 17 humans for the presence of A beta immunoreactive plaques, using antibodies to A beta 1(-17), A beta 17(-24), A beta 1(-28), A beta 40, and A beta 42. We report that plaques within the canine and feline brain are immunopositive for A beta 42 but not A beta 40. This is the first observation of nascent AD pathology in the aged feline brain. Canine plaques also contained epitopes within A beta 1(-17), A beta 17(-24), and A beta 1(-28). In all species examined, vascular deposits were immunopositive for both A beta 40 and A beta 42. In the human brain, diffuse plaques were preferentially A beta 42 immunopositive, while neuritic plaques and vascular deposits were both A beta 40 and A beta 42 immunopositive. However, not all neuritic plaques contain A beta 40 epitopes.
A previous neurocomputational model of corticohippocampal interaction (Gluck &amp; Myers, 1993) can provide a framework for examining the behavioral effects of septohippocampal modulation during classical conditioning. The model assumes that the hippocampal region is necessary for forming new stimulus representations during learning, but not for the formation of simple associations. This paper considers how septohippocampal interaction could affect this function. The septal nuclei provide several modulatory inputs to the hippocampus, including a cholinergic input which Hasselmo (1995) has suggested may function to regulate hippocampal dynamics on a continuum between two states: a storage state in which incoming information is encoded as an intermediate-term memory and a recall state when this information is reactivated. In this theory, anticholinergic drugs such as scopolamine should disrupt learning by selectively reducing the hippocampus's ability to store new information. An approximation of Hasselmo's idea can be implemented in the corticohippocampal model by a simple manipulation of hippocampal learning rate; this manipulation is formally equivalent to adjusting the amount of time the hippocampus spends in learning and recall states. With this manipulation, the model successfully accounts for the effects of scopolamine in retarding classical conditioning in humans (Solomon, Groccia-Ellison, Flynn, Mirak, Edwards, Dunehew, &amp; Stanton, 1993) and animals (Solomon, Soloman, van der Schaaf, &amp; Perry, 1983). The model further predicts that although cholinergic agonists (such as Tacrine) may improve learning in subjects with artificially depressed brain acetylcholine levels, there may be limited memory improvement in normal subjects from such cholinergic therapy. This is consistent with the general finding of a U-shaped dose response curve for cholinergic drugs in normal subjects: low to moderate doses may improve learning, but higher doses are ineffective or even degrade learning (e.g., Ennaceur &amp; Meliani, 1992; Dumery, Derer, &amp; Blozovski, 1988; etc.).
Neurons have a unique problem with signal transduction from the membrane in the region of their terminals back to the cell body and nucleus. This distance may be several meters in some nerves in some species, so there is a requirement for some mechanism to stabilize the signal. This review examines two complementary mechanisms for this signal transduction, either by the retrograde axonal transport of the neurotrophic factor together with its receptor, or the transport of a stable activated second messenger molecule. Extrapolation of studies on the fibroblast signal transduction pathway, where it has been shown that G1 can translocate from the membrane to the nucleus, has led to the demonstration of the retrograde axonal transport of several putative signaling molecules. The alpha subunits of both G1 and Gz are retrogradely transported and Gz alpha or possibly the intact heterotrimeric Gz subsequently accumulates in dorsal root ganglia nuclei. Thus Gz1 Gi1 and potentially other G-proteins and distinct signaling molecules may provide additional signal transduction pathways to that of the neurotrophins from terminal to nucleus.


Macroscopic IK[Ca is not expressed in normal levels in chick ciliary ganglion (CG) neurons prior to synapse formation with target tissues, or in neurons developing in vitro or in situ in the absence of target tissues. Here, two chick CG slo partial cDNAs encoding IK[Ca channels were isolated, cloned, and sequenced. Both slo transcripts were readily detected in developing CG neurons prior to or in the absence of target tissue interactions. When CG neurons developed in vitro in the presence of target tissue (iris) extracts, a normal whole-cell IK[Ca was expressed. These effects did not require protein synthesis, and the activity was detectable throughout the stages of synapse formation in the iris. The active component has an apparent molecular weight of 40-60 kDa.
Using positron emission tomography (PET), we studied physiological changes in a patient with frontal lobe damage resulting from closed head injury by assessing his regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF) pattern relative to that of his uninjured monozygotic (MZ) cotwin and against normal variability between cotwins in 10 comparably-aged, uninjured MZ twin pairs. rCBF was measured during the Wisconsin Card Sorting Test (WCST) and a sensorimotor control task. Differences between the index twins in rCBF activation (WCST-control) in regions determined on coplanar MRIs were compared to within-pair differences in the control group using the Z-statistic. Activation differences between the index twins extending beyond normal variability were found in two regions-relative to his uninjured cotwin, the injured twin showed less activation in the inferior portion of the left inferior frontal gyrus while showing greater activation in the left hippocampus (P &lt; 0.04). This pattern contrasts with that of normal subjects during WCST performance of augmented rCBF in the prefrontal cortex and not in the hippocampus. These rCBF differences appear to reflect the utilization of different neural systems when performing a frontal-lobe task. The use of the hippocampus by the injured twin might reflect an attempt to compensate for compromised frontal lobe functioning.
To evaluate nasotemporal overlap at the retinal vertical midline, we asked a callosotomy patient to compare the orientation of square wave gratings that were presented in his opposing visual fields. The gratings were horizontally or vertically oriented and had spatial frequencies ranging from 1 to 8 cycles per degree (cpd). Retinal stabilization ensured the gratings remained properly lateralized during sustained presentations. In accord with previous investigations, when the gratings were presented for only 200 msec, or their medial edges were 2 from the vertical meridian, performance was generally at chance. However, when presentations lasted 2 sec and the medial edges of the gratings were 1 from the vertical meridian, above chance performance was obtained. Accuracy rates were highest with 2 and 4 cpd gratings, and dropped at 1 and 8 cpd. Unexpectedly, the subject performed significantly better when the gratings were offset vertically from each other than when both were displayed on the horizontal meridian. Since this improvement did not occur when gratings were presented horizontally aligned above or below the horizontal meridian, it must be distributed to the relative offset between the gratings. The data suggest a narrow zone of nasotemporal overlap at the retinal vertical midline where very limited visual information is encoded by crossed temporal and uncrossed nasal retinal ganglion cells. An experiment in which only one grating in a pair was close to the vertical meridian indicates that this zone may be more pronounced in the nasal hemiretina.
Dopamine (DA) receptor activation has been shown to affect the striatal complex in a multidimensional manner. However, the question of whether its net effect on postsynaptic targets in the nucleus accumbens and striatum is excitatory or inhibitory in nature has been a topic of controversy for some time. This study focuses on the effects of DA agonists on indices of postsynaptic cell membrane excitability in nucleus accumbens neurons, such as the amount of intracellular current injection required to elicit spike firing and the membrane potential at which action potentials are evoked. Administration of the nonspecific D1/D2 DA agonist apomorphine induced a membrane depolarization that was not mimicked by the D1 agonist SKF 38393, by the D2 agonist quinpirole, or by the combined administration of both drugs. On the other hand, subsets of neurons responded to apomorphine or combined D1/D2 agonist administration with a response that reversed near -90 mV. Following the administration of apomorphine or the combined administration of the D1 and D2 agonists, nucleus accumbens neurons required significantly higher amplitudes of depolarizing current injection to elicit spike firing. These results suggest that coactivation of D1 and D2 receptors on accumbens neurons causes a reduction in their membrane excitability.
Expression of the estrogen receptor (ER) in the preoptic area (POA) and the mediobasal hypothalamus (MBH) in newborn female rats was studied by immunohistochemistry (IHC) and in situ hybridization histochemistry (ISHH). The number of ER immunoreactive (ER-IR) cells decreased and expression of ER mRNA was suppressed in the arcuate (ARH) and the ventromedial (VMH) hypothalamic nuclei by daily injections of estradiol benzoate (EB) for ten consecutive days. In contrast, in the POA, expression of ER mRNA was not suppressed by EB treatment, while the ER immunoreactivity and the number of ER-IR cells was decreased by EB treatment. Results of quantification of ER mRNA by reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction correlated well with results from ISHH: that is, ER mRNA expression decreased in the MBH but not in the POA. Thus, estrogen affects ER gene expression differently in these two brain regions.
The presupplementary motor area (pre-SMA) is a recently defined cortical motor area that is located immediately rostral to the supplementary motor area (SMA) and is considered to play more complex roles in motor control than the SMA. In the present study, we examined the distribution of cells of origin of thalamocortical projections to the pre-SMA in the macaque monkey. Under the guidance of intracortical microstimulation mapping, the retrograde tracer biotinylated dextran amine was injected into the pre-SMA. Retrogradely labeled neurons were distributed primarily in the parvicellular division of the ventroanterior nucleus (VApc), oral division of the ventrolateral nucleus (VLo), area X, and mediodorsal nucleus (MD). Some labeled neurons were also observed in the medial and caudal divisions of the ventrolateral nucleus. The results indicate that the pre-SMA may receive not only basal ganglia inputs via the VApc, VLo, and MD, but also a cerebellar input via the X.
Several recent studies have shown that the ciliary neurotrophic factor exerts myotrophic effects in addition to its well-characterized neurotrophic actions on various neuronal populations. Since expression of acetylcholinesterase in skeletal muscle has been shown to be regulated by putative yet unknown nerve-derived trophic factors, we tested the hypothesis that the ciliary neurotrophic factor is a neurotrophic agent capable of influencing expression of acetylcholinesterase in adult rat skeletal muscle in vivo. To this end, we first determined the impact of daily ciliary neurotrophic factor administration on expression of acetylcholinesterase in both intact and denervated rat soleus muscles. The results of our experiments indicate that although chronic administration of ciliary neurotrophic factor partially counteracted the atrophic response of soleus muscles to surgical denervation, thus confirming its myotrophic effects, it failed to either increase acetylcholinesterase expression in intact muscles or prevent the decrease normally occurring in seven-day denervated muscles. In fact, acetylcholinesterase messenger RNA and enzyme levels were further reduced by ciliary neurotrophic factor treatment in denervated muscles without significant modifications in the pattern of acetylcholinesterase molecular forms. Conversely, transcript levels of the epsilon subunit of the acetylcholine receptor in intact and denervated soleus muscles treated with the ciliary neurotrophic factor were similar to those observed in their respective counterparts from vehicle-treated animals. In addition, we also determined whether transcripts encoding the receptor for the ciliary neurotrophic factor selectively accumulate in junctional domains of rat skeletal muscle fibres. In contrast to the preferential localization of transcripts encoding acetylcholinesterase and the epsilon subunit of the acetylcholine receptor within the postsynaptic sarcoplasm, messenger RNAs for the ciliary neurotrophic factor receptor appeared homogeneously distributed between junctional and extra-junctional compartments of both diaphragm and extensor digitorum longus muscle fibres, with no compelling evidence for a selective accumulation within the postsynaptic sarcoplasm. These data show that the ciliary neurotrophic factor exerts an inhibitory influence on expression of acetylcholinesterase in muscle fibres. Furthermore, the lack of an effect on expression of the epsilon acetylcholine receptor transcripts indicates that treatment with ciliary neurotrophic factor does not lead to general adaptations in the expression of all synaptic proteins. Given the distribution of transcripts encoding the ciliary neurotrophic factor receptor along multinucleated muscle fibres, we propose a model whereby the ciliary neurotrophic factor, or a related unknown molecule that also utilizes the receptor for the ciliary neurotrophic factor, contributes to the maintenance of low levels of enzyme activity in extrajunctional regions of muscle fibres by acting as a repressor of acetylcholinesterase expression that functions directly or indirectly via a pretranslational regulatory mechanism. Accordingly, these results further highlight the complexity of the regulatory mechanisms presiding over acetylcholinesterase expression in vivo.
Mutations in the gene encoding for dystrophin, a membrane-associated cytoskeletal protein of muscle and several non-muscle cells, are the cause of Duchenne muscular dystrophy and Becker muscular dystrophy. Patients suffering from Duchenne muscular dystrophy have recently been shown to display an abnormal b-wave of the electroretinogram, suggesting that dystrophin is important for normal retinal transmission. In the retina, dystrophin has been localized in the outer plexiform layer where dystrophin co-localizes with postsynaptic markers of photoreceptor synaptic complexes. In the present study we addressed the question of whether two major dystrophin-associated integral membrane proteins of the muscular plasma membrane, beta-dystroglycan and adhalin, are also present in photoreceptor synaptic complexes. By double immunostaining and immunoblotting we show here that beta-dystroglycan is expressed in the human retina where it co-localizes with dystrophin in photoreceptor synaptic complexes most likely on the postsynaptic side. Adhalin was not detected in the retina. Since beta-dystroglycan is a member of a transmembrane supramolecular complex thought to be important for differentiation of the neuromuscular junction, it is an attractive hypothesis that dystroglycan (linked to dystrophin) might also play a similar role in differentiation of the photoreceptor synapse. A further outcome of this study is that beta-dystroglycan is not only present in the neuromuscular junction but also associated with a well-defined synaptic complex of the central nervous system. These findings indicate a more general role of this dystrophin-associated membrane protein in synaptic functions.
The effects of somatostatin and analogues were investigated in cultures of chick sympathetic neurons. Electrically evoked tritium overflow from cultures labelled with [3H]noradrenaline was reduced by somatostatin-14 in a concentration-dependent manner, with half maximal effects at 0.3 nM and a maximum of 45% inhibition. Somatostatin-28 was equipotent to somatostatin-14 (half maximal concentration at 0.5 nM), and seglitide was less potent, the effects being half maximal at 4.2 nM. The inhibitory action of somatostatin-14 on stimulation-evoked overflow desensitized within minutes at 100 nM, but not at 10 nM, and was abolished by a pretreatment of neurons with pertussis toxin. All somatostatin analogues reduced voltage-activated Ca2+ currents recorded in the whole-cell configuration of the patch-clamp technique, with somatostatin-14 being equipotent to somatostatin-28, but more potent than seglitide. However, the inhibition of Ca2+ currents occurred at concentrations more than ten-fold higher than those required for the reduction of stimulation evoked 3H overflow. The action of somatostatin upon Ca2+ currents was also abolished by pertussis toxin and desensitized within minutes. In preceding experiments, alpha 2-adrenoceptor activation had been found to reduce transmitter release and Ca2+ currents of chick sympathetic neurons through a pertussis toxin-sensitive mechanism. In the present study, the alpha 2-adrenergic agonist UK 14,304 completely occluded the inhibition of Ca2+ currents and of electrically evoked overflow by somatostatin-14. Neither UK 14,304 nor somatostatin affected the resting membrane potential or voltage-dependent K+ currents. These results demonstrate that chick sympathetic neurons possess SRIF1 type somatostatin receptors which control transmitter release. This effect is mediated by pertussis toxin-sensitive GTP binding proteins and apparently involves an inhibition of voltage-activated Ca2+ channels, but not a modulation of K+ channels. Since alpha 2-adrenergic agonists share all of these actions and occlude the effects of somatostatin, alpha 2-adrenoceptors and SRIF1 receptors seem to regulate sympathetic transmitter release via common signalling mechanisms.
Interactions mediated by cell surface glycoproteins are considered to be crucial during the formation of the nervous system. Using a monoclonal antibody directed to mCD24, a glycosylphos-phatidylinositol-anchored membrane glycoprotein, we have mapped its distribution throughout the mouse cerebral cortex during development and in young adult. Before birth, mCD24 immunoreactivity was observed in the intermediate zone, the cortical plate and the marginal zone, whereas the ventricular zones were immunonegative. After birth, mCD24 expression declined rapidly in the cortex, except in the corpus callosum (and other commissures in the brain) where immunoreactivity was still found until P20. Furthermore, mCD24 expression was maintained in young adults (until P60, at least) in zones of secondary neurogenesis, such as the granule cells of the dentate gyrus, the subventricular zone lining the anterior part of the lateral ventricles and a zone of cells extending between the striatum and the corpus callosum to the centre of the olfactory bulb. In this area mCD24 and polysialic acid neural cell adhesion molecule stainings were superimposed, and this corresponded to the pathway of migration of the olfactory immature neurons (subependymal layer). A layer of ciliated ependymal cells, lining all the ventricular walls, was also immunoreactive for mCD24. Thus, except for these epithelial-like cells, mCD24 was essentially found associated with differentiating postmitotic neurons. Its spatiotemporal expression, both during development and in the adult, is compatible with a role for this glycoprotein in cell surface recognition and in signalling events occurring during neuronal migration and axonal growth.
We have used a novel antibody to map the distribution of the protein kinase C substrate protein RC3/neurogranin during the development of the rat telencephalon. Neurogranin appearance in the rat brain is biphasic: it shows an early stage of anatomically restricted, low-intensity expression, and a juvenile stage of anatomically widespread, high-intensity expression. Most of the structures that express neurogranin during development conserve it in the adult stage. Neurogranin expression starts on embryonic day 18 in two different sites-the amygdalar primordium and in the piriform cortex-and is confined to these structures until the first postnatal day (P1). On P1, neurogranin expression increases dramatically in intensity, and appears in the olfactory cortex, isocortex, subiculum and hippocampus. In the striatum, expression starts on P1 and extends to the caudoputamen and parts of the globus pallidus and septum. Particularly complex patterns of labelling can be seen in the amygdala and cerebral cortex. Cortical layers showing early expression are the presumptive layers 4 and 5 in the somatosensory cortex, and layers 2 and 5 in the anterior cingulate and agranular insular cortices. Immunoreactivity is found mostly in cell bodies during the early and juvenile stages, but by the end of the first postnatal week it starts being more apparent in the neuropil. This phenomenon probably reflects the intracellular translocation of neurogranin to distal parts of the dendrites and dendritic spines. This process culminates by the end of the second postnatal week, when the adult pattern is reached. According to the timing and anatomy of its distribution, expression of neurogranin seems to be independently regulated in each telencephalic region by specific signalling mechanisms. It is proposed, on this basis, that neurogranin could be implicated in neuronal differentiation and synaptogenesis during telencephalic development.
Monoclonal antibodies SMI-31 and 150 recognize phosphorylation epitopes on microtubule-associated protein 1B that have been shown to be developmentally down-regulated in the nervous system. We have used these antibodies to establish changes in the pattern of expression of their epitopes on microtubule-associated protein 1B in regenerating axons of the sciatic nerves in the adult mouse and rat. Immunohistochemical studies showed that, in the sciatic nerve, regenerating axons in both adult mice and rats were labelled with monoclonal antibody 150 in a proximodistal gradient which was highest at the growth cone. This is the first report of expression of a developmentally regulated, phosphorylated isoform of microtubule-associated protein 1B in regenerating axons. Immunoblotting showed that the expression of the isoform recognized by monoclonal antibody 150 is present in normal adult mouse sciatic nerve and in regenerating axons following crush or cut lesions, but was not detectable in the normal or regenerating adult rat peripheral nervous system. Regenerating axons were also labelled by monoclonal antibody SMI-31, but the labelling, unlike antibody 150 labelling, was uniform along the entire length of the axon and immunoblotting showed that it was due to recognition of neurofilament protein. We conclude that the phosphorylated isoforms of microtubule-associated protein 1B recognized by monoclonal antibody 150 that are developmentally down-regulated in the adult rat central and peripheral nervous systems and adult mouse cerebellum are maintained in the normal peripheral nervous system of the adult mouse. When peripheral axons regenerate in the adult mouse, the regenerating axons also contain these isoforms. Adult rat regenerating axons are stained by antibody 150 only in tissue sections, not in immunoblots. The maintenance of immature isoforms of microtubule-associated protein 1B in mouse peripheral axons may relate to a continual capacity for growth and remodelling. The immunohistochemical localization of the antibody 150 epitope in growth cone-like structures and sprouts in injured nerves shows that phosphorylation of microtubule-associated protein 1B is likely to be an integral part of the regenerative response. These results also show that the phosphorylation epitopes on microtubule-associated protein 1B recognized by monoclonal antibodies 150 and SMI-31 are different and that only expression of the former correlates with axonal regeneration.
We have developed a novel culture system for studying axonal regeneration. Short lengths of spinal nerves with their attached dorsal root ganglia were removed from adult mice, explanted into Matrigel and maintained in serum-free medium for up to eight days. Profuse outgrowth of unfasciculated, naked axons occurred within 6 h from the cut ends of the peripheral nerve, dorsal roots and eventually from the ganglion itself, and continued to grow throughout the observation period. Some axons were entirely smooth, whilst others showed prominent varicosities. The former stained with antibody RT97, a marker for large-calibre, myelinated axons, whilst the latter stained with antibodies to calcitonin gene-related peptide, predominantly a marker for unmyelinated and small-diameter myelinated sensory axons. All axons stained with a monoclonal antibody (150) that recognizes a developmentally regulated phosphorylated isoform of the microtubule-associated protein 1B [Gordon-Weeks P. R. et al. (1993) Eur. J. Neurosci. 5, 1302-1311]. Monoclonal antibody 150 staining was observed along the entire length of all axons growing out of the explant; the proximal regions of these axons within the explant itself did not stain. The staining extended to the growth cones, which had elaborate morphologies. Other antibodies (e.g. to growth-associated protein 43) labelled axons within the nerve, as well as those growing in Matrigel. In preparations where the peripheral nerve had been crushed half-way along its length at the time of explantation, monoclonal antibody 150 staining was absent from axons in the nerve proximal to the crush, but present in axons which had regenerated within the nerve distal to the crush. The results indicate that re-expression during axonal regeneration of the phosphorylated isoform of microtubule-associated protein 1B recognized by monoclonal antibody 150 is restricted to the newly formed lengths of regenerated axons. The correlation between its expression and axonal growth during development and regeneration suggests that it may play a role in axonal extension. Our observations also demonstrate the usefulness of these explant cultures for studying axonal regeneration.
The therapeutic and side-effect profiles of clozapine differ from those of typical antipsychotic drugs such as haloperidol. Effects on the serotonin system, especially serotonin-2 receptors, may contribute to clozapine's atypicality. We injected rats for 14 days with clozapine (25 mg/kg/day) or haloperidol (2 mg/kg/day), and measured three aspects of the serotonin system in forebrain regions: abundance of serotonin-2A, -2C and -1A receptor messenger RNAs by in situ hybridization histochemistry; serotonin-2A and -1A binding sites using receptor autoradiography, and levels of serotonin and 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid with high-performance liquid chromatography. Clozapine administration decreased serotonin-2A receptor messenger RNA and the density of [3H]ketanserin binding in cingulate and frontal cortex, but not in piriform cortex. Serotonin-1A receptor expression and serotonin-2C receptor messenger RNA were unchanged in all areas. The treatment markedly decreased serotonin and 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid concentrations in striatum with similar trends in cortex and hippocampus. Haloperidol administration did not affect the expression of the three serotonin receptors, but was associated with a modest reduction of striatal and hippocampal 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid. The selective reduction of serotonin-2A receptors confirms earlier findings and supports the view that this receptor may have relevance for the actions of clozapine. The fact that the encoding messenger RNA is decreased shows that the the effect is mediated at the level of gene expression. In contrast, the unchanged serotonin-2C receptor messenger RNA level indicates that the reported loss of serotonin-2C receptors after clozapine treatment is due to translational or post-translational events. The relationship between the reduction in serotonin-2A receptor expression and the altered serotonin metabolism remains unclear.
Neuropeptide Y receptors in the medulla oblongata participate in central cardiovascular control. The neuropeptide Y1 receptor subtype gene and amino acid sequence have been identified by molecular cloning studies. In this study, a C-terminal peptide representing amino acids 355-382 of the neuropeptide Y1 receptor was synthesized and cross-linked to thyroglobulin to produce an antibody against a partial sequence of the neuropeptide Y1 receptor, used to localize neuropeptide Y1 receptor-like immunoreactivity in the catecholaminergic neurons of the medulla oblongata. The double colour immunofluorescence technique with a polyclonal antibody against the neuropeptide Y1 receptor and a monoclonal antibody against tyrosine hydroxylase revealed that in the rat medulla oblongata, a weak (the C3 cell group) to moderately intense (the A1, A2, C1 and C2 cell groups), diffuse cytoplasmic neuropeptide Y1 receptor-like immunoreactivity was distributed primarily in the noradrenergic and adrenergic cell bodies and occasionally seen in the noradrenergic and adrenergic cell processes. Almost all tyrosine hydroxylase-like immunoreactive cell bodies in the A1, A2, C1, C2 and C3 cell groups showed neuropeptide Y1 receptor-like immunoreactivity. The neuropeptide Y1 receptor-like immunoreactivity in the A2 cell group was somewhat stronger. The present findings show localization of specific neuropeptide Y1 receptor-like immunoreactivity in the vast majority of the noradrenergic and adrenergic cell bodies of the A1, A2, C1, C2 and C3 cell groups, which are putative cardiovascular regions. The results support the view that neuropeptide Y1 receptors in the medulla oblongata are involved in central cardiovascular control and may coexist with another important receptor, the alpha 2A-adrenoceptor, also involved in central, cardiovascular regulation, since the alpha 2A-adrenoceptor-like immunoreactivity has been shown to exist in almost all noradrenergic and adrenergic cell bodies in the brainstem. In conclusion, centrally administered neuropeptide Y may act in part via neuropeptide Y1 receptors located on the soma and dendrites of noradrenergic and adrenergic neurons, where it may interact with alpha 2-adrenoceptors at least in the noradrenergic A2 neurons. This noradrenaline system may be involved in at least part of the vasodepressor actions of neuropeptide Y, noradrenaline and adrenaline in the nucleus tractus solitarii in view of the present findings.
A long line of studies emphasizes the contribution of serotonergic fibres descending from the rostral ventromedial medulla in the control of spinal nociceptive information processing. A growing body of evidence, however, suggests that the relative contribution of serotonin to the mediation of spinal neuronal activity from the rostral ventromedial medulla may require re-evaluation. It has recently been substantiated that, in addition to the serotonergic fibres, the spinal dorsal horn receives an abundant non-serotonergic projection from the rostral ventromedial medulla. Furthermore, stimulation in the rostral ventromedial medulla could result in a powerful inhibition of nociceptive spinothalamic tract cells without any detectable serotonin release in the dorsal horn. After labelling raphe-spinal axons and axon terminals in the rat by iontophoretic injections of the anterograde axonal tracer Phaseolus vulgaris leucoagglutinin into the central region of the rostral ventromedial medulla (nucleus raphe magnus) and revealing GABA and glycine immunoreactivities of the labelled raphe-spinal terminals and their postsynaptic targets by postembedding immunocytochemical methods, here we demonstrate an extensive GABAergic projection from the rostral ventromedial medulla to the spinal dorsal horn. We show that the majority of the labelled raphe-spinal terminals in laminae I-IIo and IV-V contain GABA and some of the GABA-immunoreactive terminals are also immunoreactive for glycine. We also disclose that GABA-immunoreactive raphe-spinal terminals establish synaptic contacts primarily with GABA- and glycine-negative, presumably excitatory, spinal neurons, including Calbindin-D28k- as well as parvalbumin-immunoreactive cells in both laminae I-IIo and IV-V. The results suggest that volleys in fibres descending from the rostral ventromedial medulla may evoke GABA release from raphe-spinal terminals, and the released GABA, in some cases probably acting together with glycine, might play a crucial, as yet mostly unidentified, role in the inhibition of nociceptive information processing in the dorsal horn of the spinal cord.
This study aimed to investigate whether different calcium-binding proteins are present in morphologically and functionally separate cell groups in the dorsal column nuclei of rats. Thalamic-projecting neurons were identified by iontophoretic injection of an intraaxonal tracer substance, choleragenoid, into the ventroposterolateral thalamic nucleus, which was localized by extracellular recordings of the responses to natural peripheral stimulation. The presence of the calcium-binding proteins calbindin and paravalbumin in the projection neurons was detected by a double-labelling immunofluorescent method. The vast majority of the thalamic-projecting neurons contained paravalbumin, but not all parvalbumin-immunoreactive cells were retrogradely labelled. Calbindin-immunoreactive neurons were also found in the dorsal column nuclei, but only a small minority of these neurons projected to the thalamus. These findings are generally consistent with the notion that the different calcium-binding proteins represent functionally separate neuronal populations. Taken together with previous observations that parvalbumin is present in large dorsal root ganglion cells, which project to the dorsal column nuclei, and in the thalamocortical relay cells that receive dorsal column nuclear input, the present findings suggest that parvalbumin is associated with neurons that transmit modality-specific low-threshold mechanoreceptive information from the periphery to the somatosensory cortex. However, the presence of parvalbumin-immunoreactive cells that appeared not to project to the thalamus, as well as the occurrence of thalamic-projecting calbindin-immunoreactive neurons, indicate that parvalbumin and calbindin are present within several, functionally different, groups of neurons in the dorsal column nuclei.
In this pharmacological study we have assessed the effect of baclofen, a selective GABAB receptor agonist, on spinal expression of the immediate early gene c-Fos and the peripheral oedema evoked by a prolonged peripheral inflammation due to intraplantar carrageenan. Baclofen was administered intravenously 30 min before intraplantar injection of carrageenan in freely moving rats. Three hours after carrageenan the number of spinal c-Fos protein-like immunoreactive neurons and peripheral (ankle and paw) oedema were assessed. For the two series of experiments the total number of control carrageenan-evoked c-Fos protein-like immunoreactive neurons in segments L4-L5 of the spinal cord was 176 +/- 6 and 177 +/- 9 c-Fos protein-like immunoreactive neurons per section, for carrageenan control with intravenous and intraplantar saline, respectively. c-Fos protein-like immunoreactive neurons were predominantly located in laminae I-II and V-VI of the dorsal horn of the spinal cord in carrageenan controls receiving intravenous (68 +/- 3 and 69 +/- 2 c-Fos protein-like immunoreactive neurons, respectively) and intraplantar (62 +/- 4 and 71 +/- 5 c-Fos protein-like immunoreactive neurons, respectively) saline. Pre-administered systemic baclofen (0.05, 1.5 and 3 mg/kg i.v.) dose dependently reduced the total number of c-Fos protein-like immunoreactive neurons (81 +/- 3, 66 +/- 4 and 49 +/- 4% of control total number of c-Fos protein-like immunoreactive neurons, respectively), with strongest effects on the number of deep (74 +/- 3, 60 +/- 3 and 43 +/- 4% of control, respectively) as compared with superficial (90 +/- 4, 77 +/- 5 and 59 +/- 5% of control, respectively) c-Fos protein-like immunoreactive neurons. The effects of systemic baclofen on the carrageenan-induced spinal c-Fos expression and both the paw and ankle oedema were positively correlated (r = 0.479, P &lt; 0.05 and r = 0.733, P &lt; 0.001, respectively). Intraplantar baclofen (50 and 100 micrograms in 50 microliters of saline), simultaneously injected with intraplantar carrageenan, did not significantly influence carrageenan-evoked spinal c-Fos expression or ankle oedema. Despite the fact that the highest dose of intraplantar baclofen significantly reduced paw oedema (23 +/- 3% reduction of control paw oedema), our results are clearly in favour of a spinal site of action of systemic baclofen.
In situ hybridization was used to measure the expression of members of the Fos/Jun family of immediate-early genes in hypothalamic neurons in vivo following defined stimuli that utilize different afferent pathways. Only c-jun messenger RNA was expressed in the hypothalamic supraoptic and paraventricular nuclei of control animals. Intravenous infusions of sodium chloride solutions of different tonicity produced a range of plasma osmolalities within physiological limits. While the induction of c-fos and jun B messenger RNAs followed the stimulus intensity, the expression of c-jun was repressed at low levels of stimulation. A higher level of osmotic stimulation was able to co-induce c-jun with the c-fos, jun B and fos B genes, suggesting that other signalling pathways may then be activated. Parturition or systemic administration of cholecystokinin, that activate supraoptic and paraventricular neurons via ascending afferent pathways from the brainstem, both induced c-fos, but not the other genes, in the magnocellular nuclei. Use of double in situ hybridization confirmed that, unlike with osmotic stimulation, induction of c-fos only occurred in oxytocin neurons. These two stimuli did not cause a concomitant repression of c-jun messenger RNA expression in magnocellular oxytocin neurons. These patterns of induction provide evidence for the differential regulation of members of this family of genes in a physiological context.
Adenosine deaminase in the hypothalamic tuberomammillary nucleus and median eminence of rat and mouse brains was investigated with two different antibodies generated against the enzyme derived from either calf or mouse. Both antibodies labelled neurons in the tuberomammillary nucleus and, as determined in rat, they immunolabelled the same neurons. In the median eminence, immunopositive fibres and terminals were detected with anti-mouse adenosine deaminase in both rat and mouse, while no such staining was seen in either species with antibody against the calf enzyme. These fibres were most concentrated in the external median eminence, had a more restricted distribution than those containing either galanin or tyrosine hydroxylase and only partially overlapped with oxytocin-positive fibres. By electron microscopy, adenosine deaminase was found in terminals containing both small, clear vesicles with diameters of 35 to 45 nm and large dense-core vesicles with diameters of 100 to 140 nm. Preadsorption of antibodies with purified enzyme derived from the species against which they were directed eliminated all staining in rat, while antibody adsorptions across species were less effective. Preadsorption of anti-mouse adenosine deaminase antibody with the mouse deaminase led to increased labelling in mouse median eminence, suggesting an interaction between tissue components and antibody-linked enzyme. Tests for the presence of adenosine deaminase-complexing protein (CD26) with an antibody against this protein gave positive labelling in the median eminence of both species and this labelling was co-distributed with that seen for adenosine deaminase. These results confirm the expression of adenosine deaminase in restricted populations of neurons in rodent brain as revealed with a novel antibody, suggest the presence of a distinct form or localization of the enzyme in the median eminence, and raise the possibility that it contributes, perhaps along with CD26, to purinergic regulation of hormone secretion in this structure.
The inhibitory neurotransmitter GABA has been shown to be critically involved in shaping neuronal responses to simple and complex acoustic stimuli in the inferior colliculus. Studies in the rat and human inferior colliculus have suggested significant changes in functions related to GABA neurotransmission occur in the aged. These changes include significant decreases in GABA content, GABA release, GABA neurons, glutamate decarboxylase enzymatic activity, and GABAB receptor binding. Such changes within the inferior colliculus may affect the ability of elderly listeners to process complex acoustic signals, particularly in the presence of background noise. The present study was designed to examine the regional distribution and effects of aging on GABAA receptor binding sites in the Fischer 344 rat inferior colliculus using in vitro quantitative receptor autoradiography. [3H]GABA binding to GABAA receptors was significantly reduced in the inferior colliculus of young adult (3 months) and aged (18-26 months) rats when compared to 2-month animals. However, no significant changes were observed after 3 months of age. Single concentrations of tritiated GABAA receptor ligands (muscimol, t-butylbicycloorthobenzoate, and flunitrazepam) revealed no significant age-related changes in receptor binding in the inferior colliculus between 3 and 26 months of age. To characterize further the pharmacology of the GABAA receptor in the inferior colliculus, GABA modulation of the picrotoxin binding site was examined using [3H]t-butylbicycloorthobenzoate. When increasing concentrations of GABA were added to the incubation buffer, a significant decrease in binding was observed in the inferior colliculus of rats in each age group. In aged rats, the dose-response curve was shifted to the left, indicating an increase in the potency of GABA to inhibit [3H]t-butylbicycloorthobenzoate binding. Although no changes in GABAA receptor binding were detected in the inferior colliculus after 3 months of age, a significant alteration in interaction between the GABA and picrotoxin binding sites was observed in the inferior colliculus of aged rats when compared to 3-month-old young adults. This difference appears to reflect an increased sensitivity of the receptor to GABA modulation in aged rats and, thus, may serve as a compensatory mechanism to enhance GABAA receptor function in response to a presynaptic loss of inhibition.
The expression of the messenger RNAs encoding N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor subunits in neurologically normal post-mortem human brain was studied by in situ hybridization. In the caudate, putamen and nucleus accumbens strong hybridization signals were observed for N-methyl-D-aspartate R1-1 messenger RNA but much weaker signals for N-methyl-D-aspartate R1-3 and N-methyl-D-aspartate R1-4, N-Methyl-D-aspartate R1-2 was not detectable. N-methyl-D-aspartate R2B was the only N-methyl-D-aspartate R2 subunit detected in these nuclei. In the hippocampus the messenger RNAs for both N-methyl-D-aspartate R1-1 and N-methyl-D-aspartate R1-4 were strongly expressed in the dentate gyrus, CA3-CA1 pyramidal cells, subiculum, entorhinal cortex and perirhinal cortex. Much lower expression was seen for N-methyl-D-aspartate R1-2 and N-methyl-D-aspartate R1-3. The messenger RNAs for both N-methyl-D-aspartate R2A and N-methyl-D-aspartate R2B, but not N-methyl-D-aspartate R2C, subunits were expressed in the hippocampus. In the temporal cortex all N-methyl-D-aspartate RI isoforms were expressed (N-methyl-D-aspartate R1-1 and N-methyl-D-aspartate R1-4 being the most abundant) and N-methyl-D-aspartate R2A and N-methyl-D-aspartate R2B but not N-methyl-D-aspartate R2C were also moderately expressed. In the brain stem N-methyl-D-aspartate R1-4 was strongly expressed in various nuclei including the locus coeruleus, nucleus centralis superior and deep pontine nuclei. Only weak expression was seen for N-methyl-D-aspartate RI-1 and N-methyl-D-aspartate R1-3 but not N-methyl-D-aspartate RI-2; of the N-methyl-D-aspartate R2 subunits only N-methyl-D-aspartate R2C was found to be expressed in these nuclei. In the cerebellum all the N-methyl-D-aspartate I isoforms were expressed (mostly N-methyl-D-aspartate R1-4) in the Purkinje layer which also expressed N-methyl-D-aspartate R2A and N-methyl-D-aspartate R2C. In the molecular layer cells were found expressing N-methyl-D-aspartate R1-4 and N-methyl-D-aspartate R2B and cells in the granule layer were found to express N-methyl-D-aspartate R1-1, N-methyl-D-aspartate R1-3 and N-methyl-D-aspartate R1-4 and N-methyl-D-aspartate R2C only. Preliminary studies indicated that the messenger RNA for the N-methyl-D-aspartate R2D subunit was not expressed in the above areas of brain. These results give the first demonstration of the distribution of N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor subunit messenger RNAs in the human brain. The region-specific expression of subunit combinations suggests a heterogeneity of N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors with diverse physiological/pathophysiological roles and provides a rationale for the development of discriminatory N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor antagonists to target selective neuronal populations.
The laminar distribution and cellular levels of expression of mRNAs encoding N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor subunits (NMDAR1, NMDAR2A-D and the alternatively spliced isoforms of NMDAR1) were examined in prefrontal cortex of rat by in situ hybridization using film and emulsion autoradiography. Film autoradiograms demonstrated a distinctive laminar distribution of hybridization signals for each of the probes recognizing NMDAR1, NMDAR2A, and NMDAR2B messenger RNA; hybridization with probes for NMDAR2C and NMDAR2D resulted in scattered signals without laminar organization. Grain counting disclosed that neurons in layer V displayed the highest and neurons in layer IV the lowest absolute number of grains for all probes examined. Correction for cell size demonstrated statistically significant differences in cellular labelling density of up to 50% across neurons in different cortical layers. The cellular density profiles across cortical laminae differed between probes. Hybridization with a probe recognizing all isoforms of NMDAR1 resulted in significantly lower densities of cellular labelling in neurons of layer IV than of layers II/III, V and VI. Cellular labelling densities following hybridization with probes recognizing alternatively spliced segments of NMDAR1 were examined. Densities were low in neurons of the upper cortical layers II/III and IV using probes for the messenger RNA encoding the amino terminal insert, NMDAR11XX and the second carboxy terminal deletion, NMDAR1XX1; hybridization with a probe for the messenger RNA encoding the first carboxy terminal deletion, NMDAR1X1X, resulted in low cellular signal densities in neurons of layers IV and VIb. NMDAR2A messenger RNA expression was of relatively uniform intensity in neurons of layers II-V but significantly lower in neurons of the inner part of layer VI. NMDAR2B expression was most dense in layer II neurons. These data indicate that neurons in different cortical laminae express distinct N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor subunit messenger RNA phenotypes. In addition, the observed differences in density of N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor subunit messenger RNA expression suggest that cortical laminae differ in the relative contribution of N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors to their excitatory responses.
Nine areas of the brain were studied by electron paramagnetic resonance spectroscopy and total reflection X-ray fluorescence spectroscopy to measure paramagnetic metal ions, free radicals (neuromelanin), and total metal content. We also determined the extent of accumulation of metal ions by melanins incubated in homogenates of a region of the brain (putamen). The electron paramagnetic resonance spectra of metal ions varied considerably among areas of the brain. There was no correlation between total content of particular metal ions (iron was especially pertinent) and the observed electron paramagnetic resonance spectra, except that the substantia nigra appeared more consistently to have a prominent g = 4 electron paramagnetic resonance signal characteristic of ferric iron in a rhombic state. Only the substantia nigra, and to a lesser extent the locus coeruleus, had a free radical signal consistent with that of neuromelanin. This signal was much more prominent in the unprocessed substantia nigra but when metal ions were removed (reducing the amount of suppression of the electron paramagnetic resonance signal of neuromelanin due to dipole-dipole broadening from nearby metal ions), the electron paramagnetic resonance spectrum of neuromelanin of the locus coeruleus increased much more than that of the substantia nigra. This suggests that the structure of the pigment may differ in these two regions. Incubating synthetic melanins with homogenates of putamen resulted in accumulation of metal ions on the melanins with the concentrations of the three metal ions, relative to their values in the putamen, increasing by factors of 20-30, 3-4, and 25-30, for iron, copper, and zinc, respectively. This suggests that the metal content of isolated neuromelanin may include metal ions which became bound to the neuromelanin during the isolation procedure.
Growth factors are considered pivotal for the development, maintenance, and function of mesencephalic dopaminergic neurons. Recent studies have identified a plethora of growth factors which support the survival and differentiation of embryonic dopaminergic neurons. However, the exact cellular targets of these growth factors, and, thus, their precise mechanisms of action, remain largely unknown. To identify these cellular targets, we analysed, at the single cell level, growth factor-induced c-fos expression in dissociated mesencephalic cell cultures derived from a fos-lac Z transgenic mouse line. Pharmacological interference with cell-cell communication was utilized to control for direct growth factor effects. beta-Galactosidase-expressing cells were phenotypically characterized by immunocytochemistry to specific neural cell markers. Glia cell line-derived neurotrophic factor, basic fibroblast growth factor, brain-derived neurotrophic factor, and neurotrophin-3 directly induced Fos expression in differently sized, yet overlapping, populations of tyrosine hydroxylase-immunoreactive dopaminergic neurons. In an additional subpopulation of dopaminergic neurons, neurotrophin-3 induced fos-lac Z expression indirectly through a glutamate-mediated activation of N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors. Consistent with their proposed glial-mediated mode of action, transforming growth factor alpha and platelet-derived growth factor induced Fos expression predominantly in glia but only in a very small number of dopaminergic neurons. These findings demonstrate that individual dopaminergic neurons represent the direct targets of different sets of extracellular growth factors. Our findings further establish that growth factors affect dopaminergic neurons by indirect mechanisms which require specific cell-cell communication. These data also suggest a potential role for growth factors in the establishment of the morphological and functional diversity of midbrain dopaminergic neurons.
Electric fields were applied to study the regenerative properties of substantia nigra pars compacta neurons in guinea-pig brain slices. Two types of spikes, of high or low amplitude, were generated in both the soma-hyperpolarizing and the soma-depolarizing directions of the field. The different sensitivity of the spikes to somatic polarization suggested that the high-amplitude spikes were generated near the cell body, whereas the low-amplitude spikes were generated at a distance from the soma. Application of tetrodotoxin or intracellular injection of QX 314 abolished both types of spike. The spikes were not inhibited in the presence of glutamate receptor antagonists or during Ca2+ channel blockade. Blockers of gap junctional conductance (sodium propionate, octanol and halothane) did not affect the field-induced spikes. The spike generation was highly sensitive to changes in membrane conductance induced by current injection in the soma or by external field application. The ability of a conditioning field stimulation to affect the spike generation in different neuronal compartments suggested that a transient outward current was generated in the dendrites. The field-induced spikes were facilitated by synaptic stimulation and, in some neurons, low-amplitude spikes were generated by synaptic potentials in the absence of field application. These results suggest that channels responsible for Na+ spike generation reside in the dendrites, and are influenced by spatially distributed voltage-dependent K+ currents and by synaptic input.
The effects of repeated stressful experiences (10 min restraint, daily) on the levels of dopamine and metabolites in the nucleus accumbens septi and frontal cortex were evaluated. In naive mice, restraint stress increased 3-4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid, homovanillic acid, and 3-methoxytyramine levels in the nucleus accumbens and 3-4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid levels in the frontal cortex. The effects of stress on 3-methoxytyramine and homovanillic acid levels in the nucleus accumbens septi disappeared within five days of daily restraint experiences and the increase in 3-4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid levels was no longer evident by the 10th day. By contrast, the response of mesocortical dopamine system to restraint (increased 3-4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid levels) was unaffected by either five or 10 days of exposure to the stressor. Moreover, 10 min of restraint were still able to increase 3-4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid levels in the frontal cortex of mice repeatedly exposed (nine days) to 120 min restraint. These results indicate that the mesolimbic and the mesocortical dopamine systems adapt differently to repeated exposure to a stressor.
Regions of the prefrontal cortex that project to the nucleus accumbens in the rat receive input from midline thalamic and basal amygdaloid nuclei which also project to the same striatal region as their prefrontal cortical target. For example, the prelimbic cortex projects to the medial nucleus accumbens, and receives input from the paraventricular thalamic nucleus and the parvicellular basal amygdala. These latter two areas also project to the medial nucleus accumbens. It has been shown that afferents from the prelimbic cortex, the paraventricular thalamic nucleus and the parvicellular basal amygdala to the nucleus accumbens overlap or are separated in the nucleus accumbens, depending upon their position in the shell and core. The dorsal agranular insular cortex, the intermediodorsal thalamic nucleus and the magnocellular basal amygdaloid nucleus terminate in the lateral part of the nucleus accumbens and adjacent ventral part of the caudate-putamen. The intermediodorsal thalamic nucleus and the magnocellular basal amygdaloid nucleus reach both the dorsal agranular insular cortex and the lateral nucleus accumbens, and thus appear positioned to influence the prefrontal corticostriatal system at cortical and striatal levels. However, all three afferent systems have a heterogeneous distribution within this striatal region, and whether these projections actually reach the same areas is unknown. We investigated the patterns of separation and overlap in the nucleus accumbens between dorsal agranular insular cortical, magnocellular basal amygdaloid and intermediodorsal thalamic afferents with respect to the histochemical features of the nucleus. Techniques allowing the detection of two different anterograde tracers, or a single anterograde tracer and Calbindin-D28k immunoreactivity, in the same tissue sections were used. The results demonstrate that the afferents from the dorsal agranular insular area and the intermediodorsal thalamic nucleus avoid the shell of the lateral nucleus accumbens, which receives strong inputs from the magnocellular basal amygdala. In the matrix of the core and the ventral part of the caudate-putamen, fibers from the superficial layers of the dorsal agranular insular area overlap precisely with afferents from the intermediodorsal nucleus. In the patches, projections from the deep layers of the dorsal agranular insular cortex coincide with those from the magnocellular basal amygdala. The present findings have implications for the compartmental structure of the nucleus accumbens and provide novel insights into the organizational principles of prefrontal corticostriatal circuits.
The aim of the present study was to elucidate the organization of the interconnections between the subthalamic nucleus and the two segments of the globus pallidus in squirrel monkeys. By making small deposits of tracers in the two segments of the globus pallidus, we demonstrate that interconnected neurons of the subthalamic nucleus and the external pallidum innervate, via axon collaterals, the same population of neurons in the internal pallidum. Furthermore, this organizational principle holds true for different functional regions of the pallidum and the subthalamic nucleus. Injections of biotinylated dextran amine were made in the dorsal (associative), ventrolateral (sensorimotor) and rostromedial (limbic) regions of the internal pallidum. Following these injections, there were rich clusters of labelled terminals in register with retrogradely labelled perikarya in related functional regions of the subthalamic nucleus and the external pallidum. At the electron microscopic level, the majority of labelled terminals in the external pallidum displayed the ultrastructural features of boutons from the subthalamic nucleus and were non-immunoreactive for GABA, whereas those in the subthalamic nucleus resembled terminals from the external pallidum and displayed GABA immunoreactivity. In both cases, the synaptic targets of the labelled terminals included labelled neurons. These observations suggest that the biotinylated dextran amine injected in the internal globus pallidus was transported retrogradely to perikarya in the external pallidum and the subthalamic nucleus and then anterogradely, via axon collaterals, to the subthalamic nucleus and the external pallidum respectively. This suggestion was supported by injections of biotinylated dextran amine or Phaseolus vulgaris-leucoagglutinin in regions of the external pallidum that corresponded to those containing retrogradely labelled cells following injections in the internal pallidum. The clusters of labelled cells and varicosities that resulted from these injections were found in regions of the subthalamic nucleus similar to those labelled following injections in the internal globus pallidus. Furthermore, terminals from the external pallidum and the subthalamic nucleus converged on the same regions in the internal globus pallidus. The results of the present tracing study define the basic network underlying the interconnections between the external segment of the globus pallidus and the subthalamic nucleus, and their connections with the output neurons of the basal ganglia in primates.
The postsynaptic targets of three vasoactive intestinal polypeptide-containing GABAergic interneuron types were examined in the rat hippocampus. Two of them showed remarkable target selectivity for other GABAergic neurons, while the third contacted the somata and proximal dendrites of pyramidal cells. Vasoactive intestinal polypeptide-positive interneurons innervating the stratum oriens/alveus border in the CA1 region were shown to establish multiple contacts with horizontal GABAergic interneurons immunoreactive for type 1 metabotropic glutamate receptor. Similarly, identified axons of vasoactive intestinal polypeptide-positive interneurons projecting to stratum radiatum were found to establish symmetrical synapses largely on GABAergic dendrites. The majority of these postsynaptic GABAergic neurons were shown to contain calbindin or vasoactive intestinal polypeptide. In contrast to the first two vasoactive intestinal polypeptide-containing cell populations, vasoactive intestinal polypeptide-positive interneurons arborizing in stratum pyramidale formed baskets around pyramidal cells. These results revealed a new element in cortical microcircuits, interneurons which are specialized to innervate other GABAergic interneurons. The role of this new component may be the synchronization of dendritic inhibition, or an input-specific disinhibition of pyramidal cells in various dendritic domains. In contrast, vasoactive intestinal polypeptide-containing basket cells are likely to be involved in perisomatic inhibition of pyramidal neurons, and represents a new basket cell type different from that containing parvalbumin.
Vasoactive intestinal polypeptide-immunoreactive interneurons have been classified according to their axonal and dendritic patterns and neurochemical features in the hippocampus of the rat. A correlation of these characteristics unravelled three distinct types of vasoactive intestinal polypeptide-containing cells. Interneurons forming a dense axonal plexus at the border of stratum oriens and alveus always contain the calcium binding protein, calretinin, but lack the neuropeptide cholecystokinin. The axon of another type of vasoactive intestinal polypeptide-positive interneuron surrounds pyramidal cell bodies in a basket-like manner, and co-localizes cholecystokinin but not calretinin. Vasoactive intestinal polypeptide-containing cells projecting to stratum radiatum form two subsets distinguished by dendritic morphology. Those with dendrites restricted to stratum lacunosum-molecular lack both calretinin and cholecystokinin, whereas the other subtype with dendrites spanning all layers contains calretinin in 40% of the cases and occasionally also cholecystokin. GABA was shown to be present, and the calcium binding proteins calbindin D-28k and parvalbumin absent from all three types of vasoactive intestinal polypeptide-positive interneurons. The specific dendritic and axonal arbours imply different input and output properties for the three interneuron types. The correlation of these features with the content of neurochemical markers strongly suggests that they are specialized for distinct inhibitory functions in the hippocampal network.
Localized distension of the intestine evokes an ascending excitatory reflex and a descending inhibitory reflex in the circular muscle layer. The sequential activation of these two reflexes is believed to underlie the motor pattern of peristalsis, which is responsible for the co-ordinated propulsion of intestinal contents. In this study we have shown that the initiation of peristalsis involves mechanisms additional to those mediating the ascending excitatory reflex. A short length of guinea-pig small intestine was mounted in a partitioned organ bath so that the lumen was occluded by the partition, but neuronal continuity was maintained. The anal segment was distended by intraluminal fluid infusion to evoke a peristalsis; in the oral segment, an isotonic transducer was used to record circular muscle contractions due to ascending excitatory reflexes. Stepwise distension of the anal segment with 5 microliters increments at 10 s intervals, or with a large, single-step infusion, elicited both the ascending excitatory reflex and peristalsis, when carried out at 3 min intervals. The threshold volume for the ascending excitatory reflex was smaller than the threshold for peristalsis with either incremental or single-step distensions. The ascending excitatory reflex appeared with a shorter delay than peristalsis. Tetrodotoxin (0.6 microM) or hexamethonium (100 microM) added to the oral compartment abolished the ascending excitatory reflex but not peristalsis. These drugs abolished both the ascending excitatory reflex and peristalsis when added to the anal compartment. When stimuli were delivered at 1 min intervals, peristalsis failed completely after the first trial, but the ascending excitatory reflex persisted, at a slightly reduced amplitude. When the anal segment was distended to just-subthreshold volume, electrical field stimulation (0.25-0.5 ms, 1-5 Hz for 1 s), delivered at 3 min intervals, evoked ascending excitatory responses but not peristalsis. Higher frequency stimulation (10 Hz) consistently evoked both peristalsis and the ascending excitatory responses. When trains of electrical stimulation were repeated at 1 min intervals, peristalsis quickly failed, but the ascending excitatory response persisted, although reduced in amplitude. The initiation of peristalsis can be dissociated from the ascending excitatory reflex by its threshold volume, by the duration of distension or the intensity of electrical stimulation required, and by its susceptibility to fatigue with repeated mechanical or electrical stimuli. This suggests that the ascending excitatory reflex may be part of the mechanism underlying the initiation of peristalsis, but that additional mechanisms must also be involved. Peristalsis should not be regarded as a reflex response but rather as an all-or-nothing motor pattern, triggered by mechanical stimulation, similar to other co-ordinated motor patterns in vertebrates and invertebrates.
mu-Opioid receptor, the opioid receptor that shows the highest affinity for morphine, appears to induce a variety of side-effects, at least partly, directly through the mu-opioid receptor on neurons constituting the autonomic part of the vagus nerve. Thus, in the present study, location of mu-opioid receptor-like immunoreactivity in the central components of the autonomic part of the vagus nerve was examined in the rat. The intense immunoreactivity was observed light microscopically in the neuropil of the commissural subnucleus and the dorsal part of the medial subnucleus of the nucleus of the solitary tract, and in the neuropil of the rostral half of the ambiguus nucleus. The immunoreactivity was moderate in the neuropil of the rostral and lateral subnuclei and ventral part of the medial subnucleus of the nucleus of the solitary tract, and weak in the neuropil of the dorsal motor nucleus of the vagus nerve. In the nodose ganglion, many neurons of various sizes (17-48 microns in soma diameter) showed moderate immunoreactivity. After unilateral vagotomy at a level proximal to the nodose ganglion, the immunoreactivity in the ipsilateral ambiguus nucleus was apparently reduced within 48 h of the operation, and completely disappeared by the seventh day after the operation. In the nucleus of the solitary tract and dorsal motor nucleus of the vagus nerve, the reduction of immunoreactivity after the ganglionectomy was detectable on the fourth day after the operation, and became readily apparent by the seventh day after the operation; the immunoreactivity, none the less, still remained on the 10th day after the operation. Electron microscopically, the immunoreactivity in the ambiguus nucleus was seen mainly on dendritic profiles and additionally on somatic ones; no immunoreactivity was detected in axonal profiles. The immunoreactivity in the dorsal motor nucleus of the vagus nerve was observed only on dendritic profiles. The immunoreactivity in the nucleus of the solitary tract was seen on axonal and dendritic profiles, but not on somatic profiles. The immunoreactive axon terminals in the nucleus of the solitary tract were filled with spherical synaptic vesicles and made asymmetric synapses with dendritic profiles. The results indicate that the mu-opioid receptor in the central components of the autonomic part of the vagus nerve is located on dendrites and cell bodies of efferent neurons in the ambiguus, on dendrites of efferent neurons in the dorsal motor nucleus, and on axons which arise from nodose ganglion neurons and terminate in the nucleus of the solitary tract. The receptors on these structures may constitute the targets of enkephalin-containing and beta-endorphin-containing afferent axons arising from brainstem neurons. The receptors on the axon terminals of nodose ganglion neurons may be involved in regulation of the release of neurotransmitters and/or neuromodulators.
The localization of catechol-O-methyltransferase immunoreactivity in rat dorsal root ganglia and in the spinal cord and its co-existence with substance P, calcitonin gene-related peptide and fluoride-resistant acid phosphatase in dorsal root ganglion cells was examined with immunohistochemical and histochemical double-staining methods. Analysis of dorsal of dorsal root ganglia at both cervical and lumbar levels revealed catechol-O-methyltransferase immunoreactivity in numerous dorsal root ganglion cells. Double-staining studies showed that catechol-O-methyltransferase and substance P immunoreactivities were located in different cells with a few exceptions, whereas both catechol-O-methyltransferase and calcitonin gene-related peptide immunoreactivities were detected in about 10% of all labeled cells positive for one of the two markers at both levels studied. The great majority of fluoride-resistant alkaline phosphatase-positive cells were also immunoreactive for catechol-O-methyltransferase. Again, no difference was found between cervical and lumbar levels. Catechol-O-methyltransferase immunoreactivity was also found in the neuropil of the dorsal horn of the spinal cord. The staining was most intense in the superficial laminae (I-III) and overlapped partly with substance P and calcitonin gene-related peptide immunoreactivity. Western blotting analysis revealed that soluble catechol-O-methyltransferase was the clearly dominating form of the enzyme in dorsal root ganglia. The distribution pattern of catechol-O-methyltransferase in dorsal horn and sensory neurons suggests that the enzyme may modulate sensory neurotransmission.
To investigate the mechanism of vincristine-induced pain in humans undergoing chemotherapy we have established a model of vincristine-induced hyperalgesia in rat. Vincristine (100 micrograms/kg) was administered daily over a period of two weeks. An acute dose-dependent decrease in mechanical nociceptive threshold and an increased response to non-noxious mechanical stimuli (&quot;hyperalgesia&quot;) occurred after the second day of administration. Chronic lowered threshold and increased response to stimuli (determined 24 h after each injection) was first noted during the second week of vincristine administration. Responses gradually returned to baseline during the two weeks following discontinuation of treatment. Vincristine also increased sensitivity to heat stimulation. At a dose that produced hyperalgesia (100 micrograms/kg), vincristine did not cause a significant motor deficit. Peripheral administration of a mu-opioid agonist did not reduce vincristine-induced acute hyperalgesia. Hyperalgesia induced by vincristine in the rat provides a good model for the experimental study of painful peripheral neuropathies in human patients receiving vincristine as a chemotherapeutic agent.
The role of glutamate receptors in processing noxious sensory input from the cornea was assessed in barbiturate-anesthetized rats. Animals were treated with selective antagonists for N-methyl-D-aspartate or non-N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor subtypes prior to application of mustard oil to the corneal surface. Neural activation was estimated from the number of neurons that produced Fos, the protein product of the immediate early gene, c-fos, as detected by immunocytochemistry. Fos-positive neurons were found at two distinct regions of the spinal trigeminal nucleus: the subnucleus interpolaris/caudalis transition and the subnucleus caudalis/upper cervical cord transition. The number of Fos-positive neurons was reduced dose-dependently by the competitive N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor antagonist, 3-[(+/-)-2-carboxypiperazin-4-yl]-propyl-1-phosphonic acid (0.08-8 nmol, i.c.v.), or by the non-N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor antagonist, 6,7-dinitroquinoxaline-2,3-dione (2.5-250 nmol, i.c.v.). The greatest reduction in Fos-positive cells was seen at the subnucleus caudalis/upper cervical cord transition after blockade of either receptor subtype. Combined blockade of N-methyl-D-aspartate and non-N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors did not cause a further reduction in the number of Fos-positive neurons than was seen after the highest dose of either antagonist alone. Peripheral or central administration of the nitric oxide synthase inhibitor, NG-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester, had no effect on the number of Fos-positive neurons after corneal stimulation. These results suggest that corneal input to neurons at the subnucleus caudalis/upper cervical cord transition, and to a lesser extent, at the subnucleus interpolaris/subnucleus caudalis transition depends on excitatory amino acid transmission. Both N-methyl-D-aspartate and non-N-methyl-D-aspartate glutamate receptor subtypes, but not the formation of nitric oxide, contribute to the processing of acute corneal stimuli by central trigeminal neurons.
Hypoglossal-facial anastomosis is used in humans to restore the activity of the mimic musculature following irrecoverable facial nerve lesions. As eyelid movement kinetics is very well known, we have used this experimental model in cats to follow the evolution of blink responses and the adaptability of hypoglossal motor pools to new motor tasks. Although the electromyographic activity of the orbicularis oculi muscle in response to corneal air puffs, flashes of light or electrical stimulation of the supraorbital nerve was not recovered in the seven months following this crossed anastomosis, reflex blinks were got back by the increased activity of the retractor bulbi and extraocular recti muscles. The lid of the anastomosed side oscillated in perfect synchronization with tongue movements during licking, while it was severely affected in its motor function during optokinetic stimulation because of the spontaneous appearance of tongue-related hypoglossal activity. Present results suggest that adult mammal motoneurons are unable to readapt their motor programs to the kinetic needs of new motor targets and that most of the functional recovery observed in the cat was achieved by the compensatory hyperactivity of motor systems not directly affected by the surgery.
The regional distribution of the serotonin uptake system was studied in rat brain using a specific polyclonal antibody raised against the putative extracellular loop between transmembrane domains 7 and 8 of the cloned rat serotonin transporter. Light microscope analysis with fluorescence and avidin-biotin-peroxidase techniques revealed a punctate staining as well as numerous labelled thin fibres, which exhibited accumulation of reaction end-product deposit over varicosities. These immunopositive processes were widely and heterogeneously distributed in the rat brain. High densities of immunoreactivity were seen within the caudate-putamen, amygdaloid complex, cortical areas, substantia nigra, ventral pallidum, Islands of Calleja, septal nuclei, interpeduncular nucleus, trigeminal motor nucleus and olfactory nuclei. We also found strong expression of serotonin transporter in the stratum oriens of area CA3 and, to a lesser extent, in the stratum oriens of CA1 and the stratum lacunosum molecular of CA1-CA3 regions of the hippocampus. Within the raphe nuclei, a moderate to high incidence of stained processes was observed, and immunopositive cell bodies were detected in the dorsal raphe nucleus. In addition, some immunoreactive fibres were present in the molecular and granular layers of the cerebellum as well as in the cochlear and olivary nuclei. In none of the regions analysed was evidence for glial staining obtained. The present immunocytochemical data reveal a widespread and heterogeneous distribution of the serotonin transporter in rat brain and suggest that serotoni transporter is preferentially sorted into axons, where it appears concentrated at varicosities and terminal boutons.
Exposure of rat cerebellar granule cell cultures to neurotoxins that specifically enhance the open state probability of voltage-dependent Na+ channels, resulted in neuronal death as estimated by a cell viability assay based on fluorescent staining and 51Cr-uptake. Toxicity was detected within 1 h after addition of 100 microM veratridine and was complete within 10-18 h; it was dose-dependent and was found to be completely abolished by tetrodotoxin, an Na+ channel blocker. When veratridine was replaced by an alpha-scorpion toxin, similar observations were done. In contrast, when cultured neurons prepared ffom the cerebral hemisphere of fetal rat brain were exposed to either veratridine or alpha-scorpion toxin for 18 h or even for a longer time of incubation, no neuronal death was observed. DNA fragmentation analysis showed that the toxicity was not mediated by apoptosis. Neuronal death was neither prevented by glutamate receptor antagonists, nor by depletion of endogenous glutamate, nor by voltage sensitive calcium channel antagonists such as omega-Conotoxin-GVIA (N-type channels), omega-Agatoxin-IVA (P-type channels), nimodipine and nitrendipine (L-type channels). Our study indicates that prolonged opening of Na+ channels induced neuronal death of cerebellar granule cells which is not mediated by glutamate and reveals novel neurotoxic mechanism in addition to the well-established excitatory amino acid receptor pathway.
We recently demonstrated that continuous L-glutamate exposure led to cell death in C6 glioma cells over a period of 24-36 h, due to inhibition of cystine uptake through the cystine/glutamate (XC) antiporter. The antioxidant vitamin E provided protection against this effect, supporting the hypothesis that depletion of glutathione might be responsible, resulting from insufficient cystine uptake. To clarify the content of oxidative stress after glutathione depletion, the present study was done to investigate accumulation and target molecules of reactive oxygen species induced by glutamate treatment. The accumulation of reactive oxygen species was increased three-fold as compared to a control culture. Membrane oxidation, as judged by lipid peroxidation, was increased two-fold after glutamate treatment. Cellular ATP content was significantly reduced by glutamate exposure. For the two cytosolic enzymes examined, activity of glyceraldehyde 3-phosphate dehydrogenase was slightly enhanced by glutamate treatment, while activity of glutamine synthetase was not changed. Impairment of nuclear DNA after glutamate exposure was also revealed by nuclear chromatin condensation with DNA fragmentation. Thus, the multiple targets (membrane, cytoplasm and nuclei) of oxygen radicals in glutamate toxicity through the xc antiporter system were evaluated for the first time. Furthermore, prevention from cell death and from cellular toxicity induced by oxygen radicals could be seen using three specific oxygen radical scavengers, catalase, 3,3,5,5-tetramethyl-pyrroline N-oxide and alpha-phenyl-N-t-butylnitrone, without restoring the glutathione deficit. This indicates that radical scavengers did not interact with the xc antiporter system, but directly scavenged the oxygen radicals. Taken together, the data strongly suggest that O2-, H2O2 and OH accumulate in response to oxidative stress after glutathione depletion, resulting in glutamate cell death of C6 glioma cells.
It has been suggested that oxidative stress plays an important role in mediating excitotoxic neuronal death. We have therefore investigated the protective effects of antioxidants against excitotoxic injury in the rat on striatal neurons both in vitro and in vivo. In the first part of the study, we determined whether two different types of antioxidants, the spin trapping agent, alpha-phenyl-tert-butyl nitrone and an inhibitor of lipid peroxidation, U-83836E, could protect cultured striatal neurons against either hypoglycemic injury or N-methyl-D-aspartate-induced excitotoxicity. Dopamine- and cyclic AMP-regulated phosphoprotein, which is enriched in medium-sized spiny neurons, was chosen as a marker for striatal neurons. alpha-Phenyl-t-butyl nitrone and U-83836E both significantly reduced cell death induced by these insults as indicated by an increased number of surviving dopamine- and cyclic AMP-regulated phospho-protein-positive neurons. The two antioxidants also promoted the survival of cultured striatal neurons grown at low cell density under serum-free culture conditions. In an in vivo experiment systemically administered alpha-phenyl-t-butyl nitrone exerted neuroprotective effects in the rat striatum following injection of the excitotoxin quinolinic acid. Apomorphine-induced rotation tests revealed that alpha-phenyl-t-butyl nitrone-treated animals were significantly less asymmetric in their motor behavior than control rats. Treatment with alpha-phenyl-t-butyl nitrone significantly reduced the size of the quinolinic acid-induced striatal lesions, as assessed by the degree of sparing of dopamine- and cyclic AMP-regulated phospho-protein-positive and nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate-diaphorase-positive neurons, and of microtubule-associated protein-2-immunorective areas. Furthermore, lesion-induced morphological changes in the substantia nigra pars reticulate, i.e. loss of dopamine- and cyclic AMP-regulated phosphoprotein-positive afferent fibers and atrophic changes due to transsynaptic degeneration, were also less extensive in the alpha-phenyl-t-butyl nitrone-treated animals. The results support the hypothesis that oxygen-free radicals contribute to excitotoxic neuronal injury. The in vivo cytoprotective effects of alpha-phenyl-t-butyl nitrone against striatal excitotoxic lesions suggest that antioxidants could be used as potential neuroprotective agents in Huntington's disease, which has been suggested to involve excitotoxicity.
Basic parameters which are crucial for the survival of human embryonic striatal grafts need to be investigated before initiating clinical trials in Huntington's disease. In order to define the dissection of human striatal-donor tissue which gives rise to the largest amount of striatal neurons after intrastriatal transplantation, we studied the lateral and medial ganglionic eminences of embryonic striatal primordia obtained from human embryos sized 17-30 mm in crown-to-rump length (corresponding to Carnegie stages 18-23). Anatomical landmarks that demarcated the lateral and medial ganglionic eminences from each other were present only in embryos with 20 mm crown-to-rump length or larger. In monolayer cultures, the lateral ganglionic eminence gave rise to a six-fold higher yield of dopamine- and cyclic AMP-regulated phosphoprotein 32-immunoreactive striatal neurons as compared to the medial ganglionic eminence. We also xenografted the lateral and medial ganglionic eminences from five embryos sized 21-30 mm in crown-to-rump length to the ibotenate lesioned striatum of immunosuppressed rats. The grafts were evaluated with respect to general morphology, survival and integration using (immuno-) histochemical stains for acetylcholinesterase/Cresyl Violet, nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate-diaphorase, dopamine- and cyclic AMP-regulated phosphoprotein-32, tyrosine hydroxylase and calbindin-D28KD. As assessed 9-25 weeks after implantation, 13 out of 16 and 8 out of 13 grafts, in the groups grafted with the medial and lateral ganglionic eminences, respectively, had survived. Previous studies with rat donor tissue have indicated that the functional efficacy of striatal grafts is related to the development of striatal-specific P-zone regions and that these are enriched in transplants derived from the lateral as opposed to the medial ganglionic eminence. Also in the human striatal xenografts of the present study, P-zones appeared more abundant when the donor tissue was derived from the lateral ganglionic eminence. However, the proportion of graft tissue that expressed P-zone properties was always very low (at most 30%) and never approached the 80-90% previously observed in transplants of rat lateral ganglionic eminence. We conclude that the relative yield of striatal neurons in grafts of the human embryonic striatal primordium has to be improved before neural transplantation should be applied in patients with Huntington's disease.
Cell surface molecules, NCAM and L1, reported to have a role in synaptogenesis, growth and fasciculation of the neurites in the brain, were traced in the embryonic nigral transplants in the host striatum of adult rats. Substantia nigra of five, 15 and 25 postnatal days were also examined for the same molecules. Tyrosine hydroxylase label was used as a marker to localize the nigral neurons and glial fibrillary acidic protein to detect if glial scar present. In the control as well as transplants large neurons had expressed tyrosine hydroxylase. By 15th postnatal day tyrosine hydroxylase neurons appeared mature and were scattered, suggesting a well-formed neuropil. NCAM and L1 reaction was seen as a peripheral rim in most of the cells on the fifth postnatal day. The reaction was mainly in relation to the large cells and more extensive on the 15th day. Thereafter on the 25th day, activity was negligible. Large neurons demonstrated strong reactivity for NCAM and L1 during early post-transplantation days. After 30 days only smaller cells were reactive, many of which could be identified as neurons. Strong reaction for these molecules was present only until 60 days, though faint reaction could be detected even on the 90th day. These observations indicate that the growth promoting molecules, the type seen in the neonatal period, can be detected normally only until the neurons mature. Prolonged expression of these molecules by the grafted neurons indicate delay in the maturation of these cells due to absence of adequate target sites for synaptic connections. Some of the smaller cells expressing these molecules after 30 days of transplantation could be astroglia, either proliferating or reactive.
To evaluate the functional integration of neonatal dopaminergic transplants within host brain we studied the postsynaptic effects induced by their stimulation by following the expression of immediate early genes c-fos, c-jun and egr-1. This study was conducted nine months after the intrastriatal implantation of embryonic mesencephalic neurons to rat pups having sustained a unilateral lesion of the nigrostriatal dopaminergic system. We examined whether, when challenged with d-amphetamine: (1) dopaminergic grafts transplanted into the previously denervated neonatal neostriatum lead to a normal activation of postsynaptic striatal neurons in term of immediate early genes activation; and (2) whether this activation is related to the action of the dopamine released from the grafts using a dopaminergic D1 antagonist. Following a mild stress-injection of saline-c-fos expression was high in the lesioned neostriatum when compared with control animals. This effect was only partially counteracted by a pre-treatment with the D1 antagonist SCH 23390, but was abolished by the graft. Administration of d-amphetamine increased c-fos expression in the neostriatum and the globus pallidus of the control group. This activation was partially blocked by the lesion. The transplant reversed the effect of the lesion and, moreover, led to a c-fos over-expression in the dorsolateral neostriatum and the globus pallidus. These overcompensations positively correlated with the abnormal rotation induced by d-amphetamine in the same animals. Pre-treatment with SCH 23390 blocked the effect of d-amphetamine on c-fos expression in control and grafted animals. Similar results were found for egr-1 but not c-jun expression. It is concluded that the neonatal lesion of the nigrostriatal dopaminergic pathway, in contrast to the adult-stage lesion, modifies the reactivity of c-fos in the neostriatum to stress, presumably in relation with compensatory reorganizations occurring following the neonatal lesion. Grafts made into neonates, when challenged with amphetamine, induce an abnormal c-fos expression which can predict the degree of overshoot observed for rotation activity. This over-expression, which depends upon the stimulation of D1 receptors, indicate an abnormal activation of postsynaptic target cells by the grafts.
The D3 dopamine receptor, belonging to the D2-like receptor subfamily, displays both specific pharmacology and a unique pattern of expression, especially compared to the D1 and D2 receptors. A rat D3 complementary RNA probe labelled with [35S]UTP was used to map the neurons expressing the D3 receptor gene in the rat brain. In particular, we identified the phenotype of the neurons containing D3 messenger. RNA in the nucleus accumbens, with respect to the striatal segregated populations of enkephalin and substance P neurons, by using strategies of double in situ hybridization. In addition, comparison with D1 and D2 receptor gene expression was performed to study the potential co-localization of several dopamine receptors within the same neurons in the ventral striatum. The highest level of D3 messenger RNA was detected in the islands of Calleja and the nucleus accumbens. Other areas such as the caudate-putamen, some hypothalamic, thalamic and cortical areas and lobule 10 of the cerebellum also contained low but significant levels of D3 messenger RNA. Our results demonstrate that the D3 receptor is co-expressed either with D1 or with D2 receptor, both in the core and shell regions, in a subpopulation of substance P and enkephalin neurons, respectively. They also suggest that a significant part of the accumbal neurons only express either D1 or D2, without co-expression with the D3 receptor. These data imply that dopamine in the nucleus accumbens may act on each population of efferent neurons via the co-expression of two distinct dopamine receptors (D1+D3 or D2+D3), and that synergistic D1-like/D2-like effects may occur at the level of a single neuron, through the co-expression of D1 and D3 receptors in a significant proportion of substance P neurons (16% or 26% in the core and shell regions, respectively.
The effects of a dopamine D1 or D2 receptor blockade on initiation and execution of movements were examined using a simple reaction time task for rats. The task demands stimulus-triggered rapid initiation of locomotion to get a food reward. Time and force parameters of the transition from stance to gait were recorded allowing a detailed and separate analysis of the initiation and initial execution of locomotor initiation. Systemic administration of the preferential dopamine D2 antagonist haloperidol (0.1; 0.15 mg/kg, i.p.) caused a delayed movement initiation, as indicated by an increase in reaction time. In addition, movement execution was slowed, as measured by an increase in movement time, a decrease in the rate of development and in the maximum of the accelerative force component. Systemic administration of the selective dopamine D1 antagonist 7-chloro-8-hydroxy-3-methyl-1-phenyl-2,3,4,5-tetrahydro-1H-3-benzazepine hydrochloride (SCH-23390) (0.15 mg/kg, i.p.) induced a similar pattern of impairments as haloperidol. Dizocilpine, an antagonist of the N-methyl-D-aspartate subtype of glutamate receptors in a dose which was largely ineffective when given alone (0.08 mg/kg, i.p.) reversed impairments of movement initiation and execution that were induced by the high dose of dopamine D1 or D2 antagonists (0.15 mg/kg, i.p., respectively). It is concluded that dopamine D1 and D2 receptors are both involved in movement initiation and execution processes, which control the onset and speed of a conditioned movement, as shown here for locomotor initiation of rats. According to our results, the processes related to movement initiation and execution may be mediated by separate neuronal mechanisms, as there were no correlations between impairments of movement initiation and execution, regardless of the treatment animals received. The reversal of SCH 23390- and haloperidol-induced impairments by dizocilpine suggests a functionally antagonistic involvement of dopamine D1/D2 and N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors in the control of movement initiation and execution. The results further imply that neuroleptics blocking dopamine D1 receptors probably induce similar extrapyramidal side effects as classical neuroleptics blocking dopamine D2 receptors.
We have previously shown that brief high frequency stimulation of the anteromedial prefrontal cortex induces a long-term decrease in excitability of the glutamatergic corticostriatal terminal field. In contrast, a long-term increase in presynaptic corticostriatal excitability may be induced by presenting two brief cortical tetanizing stimuli separated by 2-3 min such that the second tetanus coincides with a period of increased excitability elicited by the first. In the present study, we examined the glutamate receptor subtypes involved in these long-term changes in presynaptic excitability. A specific glutamate receptor antagonist was infused into the rat striatum 10-25 min prior to either a single or double cortical tetanic stimulation. To eliminate the participation of intrinsic striatal cells, a subset of animals received a striatal kainic acid lesion eight to 20 days before the recording experiment. Antagonists of the N-methyl-D-aspartate and metabotropic glutamate receptor subtypes were effective in blocking the decrease in excitability induced by single cortical tetanic stimulation whereas an antagonist of the alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methylisoxazole-4-propionic acid/kainate receptor did not prevent the induction of a long-term reduction in excitability. In contrast, each of these antagonists prevented the induction of a long-term increase in excitability. These long-term modifications in excitability of the presynaptic glutamate axon terminals appear to be induced by similar mechanisms to those postulated to operate in long-term potentiation and depression. These enduring changes in presynaptic excitability are likely to represent important mechanisms for the selective modification of information processing in the striatum.
Adenosine is an inhibitory modulator in the mammalian brain with a possible role in sleep regulation, which is mainly indicated by pharmacological studies showing that adenosine or its analogs can induce sedation and sleep, whereas adenosine antagonists, like caffeine and theophylline, are potent behavioral and neuronal stimulants. In contrast to these pharmacological findings, data on endogenous adenosine in relation to sleep and waking are sparse. Therefore, we have now used in vivo microdialysis to investigate the extracellular levels of adenosine in the neostriatum and hippocampus of freely moving rats. Adenosine was monitored over a time course of 24 h, during which the animals were exposed to a 12 h day/night rhythm with lights-off from 19.00 to 07.00. In this lights-off period, i.e. the rats' active period, the maximal levels of neostriatal and hippocampal extracellular adenosine were higher than during the lights-on period. In contrast to the neostriatum, extracellular levels of hippocampal adenosine tended to increase towards the end of the lights-off period, reaching its maximal level at 07.00, and decreasing again within the following hour. The changes of hippocampal adenosine levels were related to behavior, since significant increases in &quot;sleep-like&quot; behavior, as well as decreases in overall movements and consummatory behavior, were observed when adenosine levels had reached their maxima in the hippocampus; no such relationship was found with respect to the neostriatum. These results are in keeping with a role of endogenous adenosine in the regulation of sleep and wakefulness, and point to a specific role of adenosine in the hippocampus. They also raise the possibility that adenosine may be involved in different behavioral processes dependent on the area of the brain, as well as the type of adenosine receptor involved. Finally, given the known evidence for neuroprotective actions of adenosine, its accumulation in the hippocampus as a function of behavioral activity may serve to prevent or repair the neural degenerative consequences of such activity. It is proposed that adenosine's sleep-promoting effects result from its signalling to cease behavioral activity in order to prevent excessive activity-related changes, and thus allow other restorative sleep-related processes to take over.
Intrathalamic spindle rhythms have been shown in vitro and in vivo to recur at frequencies of 0.1-0.3 Hz and last for periods of 1-3 s depending on the species observed. Although it is now generally agreed that both the intrinsic properties of relay and reticularis neurons, as well as their circuit dependency, contribute to the 7-14 Hz interburst spindle frequency, it is not presently known what mechanisms generate these slower oscillations. A model of interconnected thalamocortical relay and nucleus reticularis thalami cells was developed to investigate these properties. The model suggests that modulation of the hyperpolarization-activated cation current, Ib, by the nucleoside adenosine can serve to regulate both the duration of spindling and frequency of recurrence. These results suggest that the waxing and waning characteristics of thalamic spindle rhythms are, in part, dependent on the changing levels of extracellular adenosine and its influence on Ib in thalamocortical relay cells within this neuronal network.
The actions of adenosine, adenosine deaminase, the adenosine uptake blocker, S-(p-nitrobenzyl)-6-thioinosine, and of the adenosine deaminase inhibitor, erythro-9(2-hydroxy-3-nonyl)adenine, on electrically evoked [3H]acetylcholine release were investigated in rat phrenic nerve-hemidiaphragm preparations. Adenosine deaminase (0.25-2.5 U/ml) increased [3H]acetylcholine release. S-(p-Nitrobenzyl)-6-thioinosine (3-30 microM) and erythro-9(2-hydroxy-3-nonyl)adenine (25 nM-50 microM) caused biphasic effects on [3H]acetylcholine release: at low concentrations S-(p-nitrobenzyl)-6-thiomosine (5 microM) and erythro-9(2-hydroxy-3-nonyl)adeNine (50 nM) decreased [3H]acetylcholine release, and at concentrations higher than 10 microM S-(p-nitrobenzyl)-6-thioinosine and 0.5 microM for erythro-9(2-hydroxy-3-nonyl)adenine facilitated [3H]acetylcholine release. Both S-(p-nitrobenzyl)-6-thioinosine-induced inhibition and facilitation of [3H]acetylcholine release resulted from extracellular endogenous adenosine accumulation, because they were blocked after inactivation of endogenous adenosine with adenosine deaminase (0.5 U/ml). The inhibitory actions of both S-(p-nitrobenzyl)-6-thioinosine (5 microM) and erythro-9(2-hydroxy-3-nonyl)adenine (50 nM) were antagonized by the A1 adenosine receptor antagonist, 1,3-dipropyl-8-cyclopentylxanthine (2.5 nM), whereas the blockade of A2a adenosine receptors with PD 115,199 (25 nM) prevented the facilitatory effects of S-(p-nitrobenzyl)-6-thioinosine (30 microM) and erythro-9(2-hydroxy-3-nonyl)adenine (50 microM). The adenosine deaminase inhibitor, erythro-9(2-hydroxy-3-nonyl)adenine (25 nM), potentiated the effect of S-(p-nitrobenzyl)-6-thioinosine (3-30 microM), and this adenosine uptake blocker, when applied at a concentration (3 microM) that by itself was devoid of effect, potentiated both the inhibitory (25 nM) and excitatory (0.5 microM) effects of erythro-9(2-hydroxy-3-nonyl)adenine, on evoked [3H]acetylcholine release. Exogenously applied adenosine (10-500 microM) had biphasic effects similar to those of S-(p-nitrobenzyl)-6-thioinosine and erythro-9(2-hydroxy-3-nonyl)adenine. Adenosine (30 microM) reduction of evoked [3H]acetylcholine release was prevented after pretreatment with 1,3-dipropyl-8-cyclopentylxanthine (2.5 nM); when applied at high concentrations (100-500 microM), adenosine consistently increased evoked [3H]acetylcholine release in a PD 115,199 (25 nM)-sensitive manner. It is concluded that both uptake and deamination are effective in removing extracellular endogenous adenosine that tonically activates both inhibitory (A1) and excitatory (A2a) adenosine receptors, regulating the A1/A2a adenosine receptors' activation balance.
The decline in choline acetyltransferase activity has been identified previously within the brains of patients with Rett syndrome and Alzheimer's disease. The level of [3H]vesamicol binding to a terminal vesicular acetylcholine transporter is inversely related to the decline in cortical choline acetyltransferase activity in Alzheimer's disease, which may be due to compensatory processes within surviving cholinergic terminals. In order to investigate whether similar cholinergic compensatory processes are present in the Rett syndrome brain and are altered by normal aging, we investigated the density of cholinergic vesicular transporters in (i) the brains of Rett syndrome patients, and (ii) young and old rats with experimentally-induced cholinergic cell loss. In Rett syndrome, a significant decline in choline acetyltransferase activity within the putamen and thalamus was directly correlated with a decline in [3H]vesamicol binding. In both young and old rats, basal forebrain lesions decreased cortical choline acetyltransferase activity significantly, while [3H]vesamicol binding was unchanged. In contrast to young and old lesioned rats and patients with Alzheimer's disease, cholinergic cells in the brains of patients with Rett syndrome do not compensate for the loss of cholinergic cells by increasing acetylcholine vesicular storage.
The effect of etomidate, an imidazole general anesthetic, on GABAA receptor function was studied in cultured hippocampal neurons. At a clinically relevant concentration of 4.1 microM, etomidate shifts the GABA dose response to the left (ED50 shift from 10.2 to 5.2 microM), with no change in the maximum current evoked by saturating concentrations of GABA. At a higher concentration of 82 microM, etomidate directly induces current in the absence of GABA. Etomidate selectively increases the amplitude and prolongs the duration of miniature inhibitory postsynaptic currents without significant effects on miniature inhibitory postsynaptic currents. The combined effects of etomidate on miniature inhibitory postsynaptic current amplitude and duration enhance the total charge transfer by 280% during a spontaneous synaptic event. Analysis of single channels opened by GABA indicates that 8.2 microM etomidate increases the probability of channels being open 13-fold and increases the effective channel open time two-fold. Given the present understanding of central inhibitory synapses, the effect of etomidate on channel kinetics is most likely to be the predominant mechanism which influences the synaptic function. In addition, etomidate, through its modulation of both channel kinetics and open probability, is likely to have a large impact on extrasynaptic GABAA receptor function.
Two different types of action potentials were observed among the pyramidal cells and interneurons in cat motor cortex: the narrow action potentials and the wide action potentials. These two types of action potentials had similar rising phases (528.8 +/- 77.0 vs 553.1 +/- 71.8 mV/ms for the maximal rising rate), but differed in spike duration (0.44 +/- 0.09 vs 1.40 +/- 0.39 ms) and amplitude (57.31 +/- 8.22 vs 72.52 +/- 8.31 mV), implying that the ionic currents contributing to repolarization of these action potentials are different. Here we address this issue by pharmacological manipulation and using voltage-clamp technique in slices of cat motor cortex. Raising extracellular K+ concentration (from 3 mM to 10 mM), applying a low dose of 4-aminopyridine (2-200 microM) or administering a low concentration of tetraethylammonium (0.2-1.0 mM) each not only broadened the narrow action potentials, but also increased their amplitudes. In contrast, high K+ medium or low dose of tetraethylammonium only broadened the wide action potentials, leaving their amplitudes unaffected, and 4-aminopyridine had only a slight broadening effect on the wide spikes. These results implied that K+ currents were involved in the repolarization of both types of action potentials, and that the K+ currents in the narrow action potentials seemed to activate much earlier than those in the wide spikes. This early activated K+ current may counteract the rapid sodium current, yielding the extremely brief duration and small amplitude of the narrow spikes. The sensitivity of the narrow spikes to 4-aminopyridine may not be mainly attributed to blockade of the classical A current (IA), because depolarizing the membrane potential to inactivate IA did not reproduce the effects of 4-aminopyridine. Blockade of Ca2+ influx slowed the last two-thirds repolarization of the wide action potentials. On the contrary, the narrow action potentials were not affected by Ca(2+)-current blockers, but if they were first broadened by 4-aminopyridine or tetraethylammonium, subsequent application of Ca(2+)-free medium caused further broadening, suggesting that the narrow action potentials were too brief to activate the Ca(2+)-activated potassium currents for their repolarization. Therefore, the effects of low concentrations of tetraethylammonium on the narrow spikes appeared to be mainly due to blockade of an outward current that was different from the tetraethylammonium-sensitive Ca(2+)-activated potassium current (IC). In the neurons with the narrow spikes, voltage-clamp experiments revealed two voltage-gated outward currents that were sensitive to tetraethylammonium and 4-aminopyridine, respectively. Both currents were activated rapidly following the onset of depolarizing steps. Interestingly, the tetraethylammonium-sensitive current was a transient outward current that inactivated rapidly (tau &lt; or = 5 ms), while the 4-aminopyridine-sensitive current was relatively persistent during maintained depolarization. The 4-aminopyridine-sensitive current did not show obvious inactivation even at membrane potential of -40 mV, which completely inactivated the transient tetraethylammonium-sensitive, current. The results indicate that different potassium currents are involved in the repolarization of the narrow and wide action potentials in cat motor cortex. A novel tetraethylammonium-sensitive transient outward current and a 4-aminopyridine-sensitive outward current are responsible for the short duration and small amplitude of the narrow action potentials in the interneurons and some of the layer V pyramidal cells. These two currents are voltage-gated and Ca(2+)-independent. For the wide action potentials that characterize most pyramidal neurons, a Ca(2+)-independent tetraethylammonium-sensitive outward current and a Ca(2+)-activated potassium current are the main contributors to their repolarization.
Electrophysiological and morphological properties of the neurons in cat motor cortex were investigated using intracellular recording and staining techniques in a brain slice preparation. In response to intracellular injection of depolarizing current pulses, four distinct types of firing patterns were observed among cat neocortical neurons. Regular-spiking neurons were characterized by their repetitive firing from which conspicuous frequency adaptation was observed. Doublet-or-burst firing cells were marked with their tendency to fire 2-5 clustered spikes at the onset of depolarizing pulse. In doublet-or-burst firing neurons, but not in regular-spiking neurons, a low-threshold calcium current was revealed by single-electrode voltage clamp. Both regular-spiking and doublet-or-burst firing neurons had relatively wide action potentials. Fast-spiking neurons could fire extremely narrow action potentials at a very high frequency. Their frequency-to-intensity slope of steady-state firing was significantly higher than that of the other neurons. In contrast, narrow-spiking neurons had the smallest frequency-to-intensity slope for steady-state firing, although their action potentials were as narrow as those of the fast-spiking neurons. Both regular-spiking and doublet-or-burst firing neurons were identified as pyramidal neurons, and were found in all layers below layer I. Their apical dendrites were densely coated with dendritic spines. Narrow-spiking neurons were only recorded in layer V. They were large pyramidal cells with scare spines on their apical dendrites. Fast-spiking neurons were all nonpyramidal interneurons. Seven out of eight labelled fast-spiking cells had beaded dendrites without spines. Their axons had a large number of varicosities, and arborized extensively to form a dense plexus of terminals in the vicinity of their soma. The remaining neuron was found to be a spiny nonpyramidal neuron in layer V. These results demonstrate that, in addition to the three types of firing patterns previously identified in rodent neocortex, a group of neurons in the cat motor cortex express another type of firing behaviour which is characterized by extremely narrow action potential and very small frequency-to-intensity slope. Correlation with the morphological data shows that these neurons are large layer V pyramidal cells rather than nonpyramidal interneurons.
Cortical neurons receive synaptic inputs through both vertical and horizontal pathways. We made a systematic survey of the synaptic strength and intracortical pathways of intrinsic horizontal connections in rat visual cortex using intracellular recordings from alice preparations. Excitatory postsynaptic potentials were recorded from pyramidal neurons of layers 2/3 and layers 5/6 in response to electrical shocks applied to these layers at a lateral distance of 1.0 mm from the impaled neuron or to the underlying white matter. When the threshold intensity of stimulation to activate monosynaptic excitatory postsynaptic potentials was compared, the vertical input had a lower threshold than the horizontal inputs. The threshold intensity of the horizontal inputs was lower, and the amplitude of the responses was larger in sagittally sectioned slices than in coronal slices, suggesting that the horizontal synaptic connection in the rat visual cortex was stronger in the rostrocaudal than in the mediolateral direction. Tetrodotoxin puffs focally applied to gray matter between the stimulation and the recording sites caused a transient depression of excitatory postsynaptic potentials, which was selective to the input conveyed through the puffed area. This pharmacological dissection revealed that routes parallel to the cortical Iaminae in the same layer as the stimulation site mediated the largest part of excitation conduction of intrinsic connections. Obliquely ascending routes mediated almost half of all the detected inputs originating from a deep layer to the neurons in either layers 5/6 or layers 2/3, whereas the contribution of obliquely descending routes from layers 2/3 to layers 5/6 was small (25%). Our results present semi-quantitative data on the connection diagram of the intrinsic neuronal circuits in the rat visual cortex, which will provide the basis for further investigations of the roles of the intrinsic connections in information processing in rodent cerebral cortex.

The ventrobasal thalamus is the principal somatosensory thalamic relay nucleus, and it receives two major sources of excitatory input: firstly an input from ascending sensory afferents, and secondly a descending projection from the primary somatosensory cortex. There is considerable anatomical evidence to suggest that both of these projections utilise the excitatory amino acid L-glutamate as their neurotransmitter. Previous work from this laboratory has shown that the sensory input to the rat ventrobasal thalamus in vivo is mediated by ionotropic excitatory amino acid receptors of both the N-methyl-D-aspartate and non-N-methyl-D-aspartate type. These findings are consistent with data from other studies in various thalamic relay nuclei. In contrast, there are considerably less data available concerning the synaptic pharmacology of the corticothalamic projection although there have been both speculation and studies concerning the functional significance of this pathway. There is some evidence to suggest an involvement of N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors and metabotropic glutamate receptors. The aim of this study was to determine which excitatory amino acid receptors might mediate cortically-elicited excitatory postsynaptic potential in the ventrobasal thalamus in vivo. Intracellular recordings were made, and neurotransmitter antagonists were applied on to rat ventrobasal thalamus neurons by microiontophoresis. Cortically-elicited excitatory postsynaptic potentials were reduced by the N-methyl-D-aspartate antagonist 3-[(+/-)-2-carboxy-piperazin-4-yl]-propyl-1-phosphonate, or the Group I metabotropic antagonist (S)-4-carboxyphenylglycine. These data indicate that both N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors and Group I (possibly metabotropic glutamate receptors type I) metabotropic receptors are involved in the mediation of corticothalamic transmission. Such a transmitter mechanism would allow a modulatory system that could selectively enhance other excitatory inputs. Some of these data have been reported in abstract form.
Surgical neurology in Edinburgh started &gt; 70 years ago with Norman Dott, after his apprenticeship with Harvey Cushing. It continued under the chairmanship of John Gillingham, until 1980, and then Douglas Miller, who merged the Departments of Surgical Neurology and Medical Neurology to form the Department of Clinical Neurosciences in 1986. Particular strengths of the Edinburgh program have been the management of intracranial aneurysms, stereotactic and functional neurosurgery, the management of head and spinal injury and stroke, and neuro-oncology.
This commentary wishes to open a discussion to identify new paths for progress in neurotoxicology research and to better face some criticism and inquiry from outside observers, particularly from those of closely related neurosciences. Examples representative of research in neurotoxicology as carried out over the last 20 years are presented. They are ranked, according to their approaches, into three main categories: molecular-mechanistic research, correlative research and black box research. There are many reasons for the relatively modest achievements of neurotoxicology as compared to those in other neuroscience fields. Most studies tend to be superficial and fail to address important biological questions because the pressure of politics demands swift and practical solutions to problems. Also, little advantage was taken from the interdisciplinary nature of neurotoxicology. A happy ending is possible when neurotoxicology research is encouraged within the mainstream of neurobiology, thus actively participating in the continuing neuroscience revolution.
A 73-year-old female was admitted to our hospital because of disturbed consciousness and left-sided motor weakness. Computed tomographic scans demonstrated a hemorrhagic infarction in the right parietal region. Right carotid angiograms showed both the posterior portion of the superior sagittal sinus (SSS) and the entire left transverse sinus simultaneously occluded. Left carotid angiograms revealed an enlarged occipital artery, which had direct communications to the left sigmoid sinus and the superior petrosal sinus. These findings were consistent with dural arteriovenous fistula (D-AVF). The laboratory examinations yieled normal results. The patient was managed conservatively with glyceol and anticonvulsants for four weeks and eventually recovered with complete resolution of hemiparesis. Follow-up angiography carried out 6 weeks later showed the SSS, partially stenotic, but recanalized with no evidence of venous congestion. The D-AVF still remained opacified, but there was a marked reduction in retrograde flow to the sigmoid sinus. Further repeated angiograms obtained at 10 months after the onset confirmed complete recanalization of the SSS and disappearance of the D-AVF. From the timing of the angiographies, we considered that the sinus occlusion was caused by the high arterial flow to the fistula and its disappearance made recanalization of SSS possible.
E.D. Adrian, F.R.S. (1889-1975) was one of Britain's most distinguished neurophysiologists, who, during a long and productive lifetime, achieved most honours and distinctions available to a scientific man. These included the 1932 Nobel Prize for Physiology or Medicine, shared with Sir Charles Sherrington, F.R.S., the Order of Merit (1942), and Presidency of the Royal Society (1950-55). His interest in the nervous system started at the beginning of his undergraduate career, much influenced by his Director of Studies, Keith Lucas, F.R.S. (1879-1916). Lucas, a skilled and imaginative neurophysiologist, was particularly renowned for his technical ability to design and build new equipment. In turn, his pupil's work on recording and analysing the electrical impulses in nervous tissue was also facilitated by the development of appropriate, sensitive instrumentation. This paper will describe Adrian's first use of valve amplifiers to enlarge the extremely small electrical signals then obtainable in the physiological laboratory, a development that epitomized the beginning of the electronic revolution in life sciences' laboratories.
The learning and memory in adult, male Wistar rats were assessed using the T-maze and passive avoidance tests after chronic administration of phenobarbital (PB) at 5, 15, 30, 60, or 75 mg/kg intraperitoneally (IP) for 21 days. The PB levels in plasma, the acetylcholine esterase (AChE) activity in the motor cortex, pyriform cortex, olfactory bulb, striatum, septum, and hippocampus and the levels of serotonin (5-HT), 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid (5-HIAA), dopamine (DA), dihydroxyphenylacetic acid (DOPAC), and homovanillic acid (HVA) levels in the hippocampus were measured. There was no significant change in learning and memory, AChE activity, or monoamine levels at plasma PB levels of 1.5, 6.0, 9.0, and 25 micrograms/ml (corresponding to doses of 5, 15, 30, or 60 mg/kg PB, respectively). However, at a plasma level of 55 micrograms/ml (75 mg/kg), PB caused impairment in learning and memory. It was associated with an increase in AChE activity and 5-HT levels in the hippocampus. The results indicate that chronic PB administration may not be linked to impaired learning and memory functions at doses used in anticonvulsant therapy.
Morphine, morphine-6-glucuronide and normorphine were administered to male Sprague-Dawley-rats. Analgesic effect was estimated with the hot plate and spinal nociceptive reflex depression. After intraperitoneal administration the molar potency ratio of morphine-6-glucuronide/morphine was 1.7 estimated by the paw lick latency on the hot plate utilizing a linked pharmacokinetic-pharmacodynamic model. The potency ratio of morphine-6-glucuronide/morphine utilizing the spinal nociceptive reflex depression after intravenous administration was estimated to be within the earlier reported range of 1-4 after systemic administration of the drugs. In contrast to what is seen in man virtually no morphine-6-glucuronide was formed in Sprague-Dawley rats after administration of morphine, much lower levels of morphine-3-glucuronide were also seen. The molar AUC ratio of morphine-3-glucuronide/morphine was 1.8 +/- 0.5 and the corresponding ratio for normorphine/morphine was 0.2 +/- 0.06. After intraperitoneal administration of morphine, morphine-6-glucuronide and normorphine mean systemic clearance values of 413 +/- 95, 50 +/- 11 and 187 +/- 54 ml.min.kg-1 respectively were observed. Varea was 9.0 +/- 2.1, 0.8 +/- 0.2 and 4.9 +/- 1.4 L.kg-1 respectively. The slow absorption of morphine-6-glucuronide was illustrated by the mean Tmax-value of the 16 min. as compared with 9 min. for morphine and 10 min. for normorphine. It was possible to fit pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic data of behavioural analgesic effect of both morphine and morphine-6-glucuronide to a parametric model linking the sigmoid Emax model to standard pharmacokinetic equations.
Our laboratory has previously conducted a number of studies to determine the effects of chronic stress on the physiology and behavior of male rats. The present study was performed to extend these investigations to female rats. Female rats were chronically stressed using a behavioral paradigm of around-the-clock signalled intermittent foot shock in which some rats can pull a chain to avoid/escape shock (stress) while another group of rats is yoked to the first group (yoked-stress) and does not have control over shock termination. Control rats were never shocked but all groups lever pressed for food pellets on an FR1 schedule (one pellet per lever press). Daily vaginal samples were obtained for several weeks prior to stress onset and throughout the chronic stress period. After 14 days of stress, the experiment was terminated and morning blood samples were collected for hormonal assays. Stress transiently decreased lever pressing for food pellets and body weights, but both measures returned to prestress levels by day 14 of stress. Plasma adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH) concentrations were significantly elevated in the yoked-stress group compared to the other two groups, but there were no significant effects of 14 days of stress treatment on plasma corticosterone, prolactin, estradiol, or progesterone concentrations. There were no significant differences in estrous cycle length among experimental groups.
Lesions of the amygdala or hippocampus have a large impact on social behavior of rats. In this study we investigated whether a social recognition test was also affected by those lesions. An NMDA-induced lesion of the basolateral amygdala did not impair the ability to distinguish a familiar from an unfamiliar juvenile rat. It was argued that the cortico-medial amygdala may be more important for social recognition than the basolateral amygdala. Fimbria-transected rats could no longer distinguish a familiar from an unfamiliar juvenile. Moreover, during all encounters they spent less time investigating the juvenile. The precise nature of this deficit, especially the reason for the overall reduced social investigation time, could not be specified with the classical procedure of the social recognition test.
Maintaining stance stability under varying sensory environment is an essential function in the elderly and among patients. Testing sensory organization ability of standing balance, the Sensory Organization Test (SOT), has become a standard procedure in many clinical and laboratory settings. The stance stability can be quantified by two forceplate measures in the SOT: the equilibrium score (ES) and the sway area (SA). This study compares the validity of the ES and the SA in detecting gender, trial, and sensory effects on stability in twenty (ten male, ten female) healthy young adults. Subjects were tested under six sensory conditions: eyes open (EO), eyes closed (EC), sway-referenced vision (Vs), sway-referenced support surface (Ss), eyes closed sway-referenced support surface (ECSs), and sway-referenced visual surround and support surface (VsSs). A visual surround and/or the support surface were tilted proportionately to the subject's spontaneous sway in the sway-referenced conditions. Three trials, 20-second for each trial, were repeated for each sensory condition. Above results demonstrated that the Pearson correlation coefficients between the ES and the SA were all highly significant (p &lt; .0001) except for the first trial of the EO condition. The consistencies in which the two measures discriminated among sensory conditions were tested by the Kendall's coefficient of concordance. The Kendall's coefficient for the ES (W = .843) and the SA (W = .866) were high and similar. Separate ANOVA procedure for the ES and SA revealed that both measures satisfactorily detected a significant sensory condition and trial effects and insignificant gender effect. We can conclude that ES and SA are valid measures of stance stability during the SOT. Our results confirm that healthy young adults have a poorer postural stability when the visual and somatosensory inputs are simultaneously altered. Moreover, the learning effect is observed during repeated trials within test conditions.
The present study examined the effect of interstimulus interval on acquisition of conditioned thermal responses produced by trials in which a light/noise stimulus (CS) was repeatedly paired with infusion of morphine sulphate (US). Rats were implanted with a chronic intravenous catheter for drug delivery and a biotelemetry device for remote monitoring of core body temperature. In experiment 1, different groups received morphine either 0.5 (group P0.5) or 15 min (group P15) after onset of the 15-min CS. A third group was exposed to an identical number of CS and US presentations but in an explicitly unpaired manner (group UP). After repeated exposure to morphine, all groups showed a more rapid rise in body temperature in response to drug infusion. Test presentations of CS alone revealed conditioned hyperthermic responses to CS in groups P0.5 and P15. However, the response of the P15 group was smaller than that of the P0.5 group, suggesting weaker conditioning at the longer interstimulus interval. The contribution of CS-US overlap to the diminished associative strength observed in the P15 group was assessed in experiment 2. Groups P0.5/15 and P0.5/30 received infusions of morphine 0.5 min after onset of a 15- or 30-min CS, respectively. Group P15/30 received morphine 15 min after onset of a 30 min CS, whereas group UP/30 received explicitly unpaired presentations of the US and a 30-min CS. Enhancement of the hyperthermic effect of morphine was observed in all groups after ten conditioning trials. Test presentations of the CS without drug revealed that all paired groups had acquired conditioned hyperthermic responses. These results support the conclusion that drug-induced conditioning can occur at relatively long interstimulus intervals when there is sufficient temporal overlap between the CS and unconditioned response evoked by the drug US.
The influence of the opioid system on acquisition of an ethanol-induced conditioned taste aversion was examined in alcohol-preferring and avoiding inbred strains of mice (C57BL/6J and DBA/2J). Fluid-deprived mice from each strain received either ethanol alone, naloxone alone, or both ethanol and naloxone immediately after access to a novel tasting fluid. Naloxone alone (1 or 3 mg/kg) did not induce a conditioned taste aversion in either strain of mice. Administration of ethanol (1.5 g/kg) to DBA/2J mice produced a moderate taste aversion that was not affected by co-administration of naloxone. Although ethanol administered alone (3 g/kg) did not cause a taste aversion in C57BL/6J mice, the combination of ethanol and the higher dose of naloxone produced a significant taste aversion that increased across trials. A second experiment addressed the possibility that naloxone failed to enhance the ethanol-induced condition taste aversion in DBA/2J mice due to a &quot;floor&quot; effect on consumption. A lower ethanol dose (1 g/kg) was given alone or in combination with naloxone (1 or 3 mg/kg). Again, ethanol produced a moderate conditioned taste aversion that was not potentiated by naloxone. Subsequent conditioning with a high ethanol dose produced further suppression of intake, confirming that naloxone's failure to enhance aversion on earlier trials was not due to a &quot;floor&quot; effect. These data demonstrate a strain specific interaction between the aversive effect of ethanol and naloxone. More specifically, the results indicate that blockade of opioid receptors enhances the aversive effect of ethanol in C57BL/6J but not DBA/2J mice, suggesting that genetically determined differences in the endogenous opioid system of alcohol-preferring mice may mitigate ethanol's aversive effect.
Twenty volunteers were trained to discriminate between 75 mg tripelennamine (TP) and placebo. During the first four sessions, the drugs were identified prior to ingestion by letter code. During the next six sessions, the procedure was the same except the capsules were not identified. At the end of the 3-h session, participants indicated which capsule they believed they received using the letter codes. When correct, they received a monetary bonus. If they were correct on five sessions, they entered the third phase which had ten additional training and 12 test sessions. During tests, participants received capsules that contained other drugs, including diphenhydramine (50 and 75 mg), chlorpheniramine (4 and 6 mg), diazepam (5 and 10 mg), d-amphetamine (5 and 10 mg), as well as tripelennamine (25, 50 and 75 mg) and placebo. Thirteen participants learned the discrimination and nine entered the third phase. Except for placebo, most participants identified the test compounds as TP and labeled them as sedatives. TP produced significant changes on several subjective and physiological measures. The test compounds produced varied effects which were neither clearly dose-related nor related to the identification as TP or placebo. These results indicate that tripelennamine can function as a discriminative stimulus, but with little evidence of pharmacological specificity.
The fear-potentiated startle response paradigm is used to investigate anxiolytic properties of drugs. The first objective of the present study was to further investigate the predictive validity of this paradigm. The anxiolytics chlordiazepoxide (2.5-10 mg/ kg IP) and oxazepam (1-10 mg/kg PO) and the putative anxiolytic flesinoxan (1-10 mg/kg PO) decreased startle potentiation dose-dependently, indicating an anxiolytic effect. The antidepressant fluvoxamine (5-20 mg/kg PO) did not affect startle potentiation. Ideally, anxiolytic drugs attenuate startle potentiation without affecting control startle levels, although some studies report altered control startle amplitudes. The second objective was to investigate whether different effects on control startle amplitudes are related to different startle devices. Therefore, the drugs were tested in two laboratories. Results showed no significant differences between laboratories, indicating that equipment is not a critical factor in the drug-induced alteration of control startle levels. In an additional experiment, it was shown that flesinoxan (10 mg/kg PO) did not affect strychnine-induced startle potentiation, supporting the idea that the attenuating effect of flesinoxan on the fear-potentiated startle response is due to its anxiolytic properties. Thus, the fear-potentiated startle response paradigm appears a valid and reliable model for anxiolytic properties of drugs.
This paper presents a modification of the quantitative &quot;three-process model of alertness regulation&quot; to predict sleep latency in connection with irregular sleep/wake patterns. This model uses a circadian and a homeostatic component (sleep loss) that are summed to yield predicted alertness (on a scale of 1 to 20) across a specified time span. The timing of sleep from two studies of irregular sleep were used as input to the model. The predicted alertness at bedtime was regressed on empirical sleep latency from two studies. The maximum R2 (0.88) was reached for an exponential function, with the model acrophase set to 2048. The predictions were cross validated on another set of sleep latency data from an irregular sleep study and a maximum R2 of 0.65 was obtained. In both studies, the prediction from the model explained more variance that did self-rated alertness at bedtime. Cross validation was also carried out successfully with published data from two studies of shift work. It was concluded that sleep latency on irregular schedules may be predicted with accuracy from knowledge of the prior sleep/wake pattern. This may have practical consequences for rest/activity management.
The development of the water maze as a laboratory approach to the study of spatial navigation has led to a large amount of research on the brain mechanisms of this ecologically important behavior. The procedural simplicity of this task belies its underlying complexity, which can complicate the interpretation of data obtained with the standard water maze procedure. In this review, recent experiments that used novel training procedures and detailed analyses of behavior are evaluated, together with related experiments, to clarify the brain mechanisms involved in this behavior. Pharmacological, lesion, and unit recording experiments demonstrate the existence of forebrain circuits for spatial navigation that are considerably more varied and extensive than was previously proposed, and involve various extrahippocampal structures. The use of novel and specialized procedures, together with a continued detailed focus on the behavior of animals in the maze, appears to be the most promising approach to understanding the mechanisms of spatial navigation.
Since the discovery of the novel neurotrophic factor GDNF in 1993 [25], the molecule has received a great deal of attention from neuroscientists studying all aspects of neurotrophic factor physiology and pharmacology. GDNF instantly became a focus of basic research when it was discovered that GDNF was a potent neurotrophic factor for at least two diverse neuronal populations including dopaminergic neurons and motor neurons [25,47] magnitude. A comprehensive review of the pharmacology of GDNF and hypotheses concerning its possible clinical uses is presented. Based upon our current knowledge of GDNF's pharmacology, it appears that the molecule may be useful in the treatment of neurodegenerative diseases, such as Parkinson's disease (PD), amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS), other motor neuron diseases (MND) and cholinergic deficit-related dementia.
Gene therapy for neurological diseases is a rapidly expanding field in neurosciences. It has been demonstrated that some viral vectors from HSV-1 (herpes simplex virus type 1), Ad (adenovirus) and AAV (adeno-associated virus) can transfer foreign genes into nondividing cell types (including neurons). In addition, physical/chemical methods are also used in direct in vivo gene transfer. The direct gene transfer techniques will open a new way to study neurophysiology, neuropathology and therapy for neurological diseases at molecular level. They will hopefully lead to surprising progress in gene therapy for neurological diseases.
Corticosterone can activate two corticosteroid receptor types in rat hippocampus: low doses activate mineralocorticoid receptors (MR) while high doses additionally activate glucocorticoid receptors (GR). We found that corticosterone, administered to adrenalectomized rats in vivo, dose-dependently modulates carbachol responsiveness of CA1 hippocampal neurons, recorded subsequently in vitro. Thus, the carbachol (3 M) induced membrane depolarization in CA1 neurons was relatively large in hippocampal slices where either (almost) no corticosteroid receptors were activated (0-1 g corticosterone/100g body weight) or where both MRs and GRs were occupied by high corticosterone doses (100-1000 g/100g). Slices from rats that received intermediate doses of corticosterone (10-30 g/100g) resulting in predominant MR occupation, displayed significantly suppressed carbachol responses. In adrenally intact rats with MRs and GRs fully activated by a very high dose of corticosterone (1 mg/100g), carbachol responses were increased compared to rats that received only the vehicle or that were untreated. When endogenous corticosterone levels were elevated by ether stress, carbachol responses were not increased. These findings suggest that a shift in the relative occupation of MRs and GRs occurring under physiological conditions is associated with modulation of acetylcholine sensitivity in CA1 neurons. After stress, however, the sensitivity to acetylcholine is rather low, although MRs and GRs are fully activated by endogenous corticosterone; this may point to the involvement of additional stress-induced factors modulating the cholinergic responses.
Extracellular single cell recording and microiontophoretic techniques were used to characterize the roles of ionotropic and metabotropic glutamate receptors (iGluRs and mGluRs) in glutamate-induced excitation of rat nucleus accumbens (NAc) neurons in vivo. Pulse-ejected glutamate (16-128 nA) induced a current-dependent increase in the firing of quiescent NAc neurons. A stronger excitatory response to alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazole-proprionic acid (AMPA) was observed at much lower ejection currents (0.1-6.4 nA). Compared to AMPA and glutamate, N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) induced a much less potent excitation in a narrow current range (1-4 nA) and only when neurons were previously &quot;primed&quot; with other excitatory amino acids (EAAs). Higher ejection currents of all three EAA agonists drove NAc neurons into a state of apparent depolarization block. AMPA-evoked firing was selectively blocked by the AMPA receptor antagonist 6,7-dinitroquinoxaline-2,3-dione (DNQX) whereas NMDA-induced activity was selectively prevented by the NMDA receptor antagonist 2-amino-5-phosphonovalerate (D-AP5). DNQX, but not D-AP5, significantly attenuated glutamate-evoked activity. The mGluR receptor agonist (1S,3R)-1-aminocyclopentane-1,3-dicarboxylic acid (1S,3R-t-ACPD) failed to evoke activity of NAc neurons, but significantly reduced the excitatory effects of other EAAs. This modulatory effect of 1S,3R-t-ACPD was consistently blocked by the selective mGluR antagonist L(+)-2-amino-3-phopsonopropionic acid (L-AP3) whereas another mGluR antagonist (RS)-4-carboxy-3-hydroxy phenylglycine (4C3HPG) was inconsistent in this regard. These results indicate that the excitatory effects of glutamate on rat NAc neurons in vivo are primarily mediated by non-NMDA iGluRs and that mGluRs function to dampen excessive glutamate transmission through iGluRs.
A series of 1-{2-[bis(4-fluorophenyl)methoxy]ethyl}piperazines (CYD1, 2, 3, 5) with a 4-substituent incorporating a 1-hydroxy-3-iodo-2-propenyl moiety, except CYD2 which lacks the hydroxy, was synthesized as potential in vivo imaging ligands for the dopamine transporter. For two of the piperazine derivatives (CYD3 and 5), possible stereoselectivity was considered as well (both E- and Z-form). Their in vitro potency for inhibition of [3H]dopamine uptake in rat striatal synaptosomes was 10-fold lower than that of GBR 12,909 used as a reference. The highest Ki values were 137 and 101 nM for CYD1E and CYD3E, respectively. Inhibition potency was higher for the E- than for the Z-isomers. In vivo distribution of radioactivity in rats injected with the 123I-labeled CYDs showed preferred striatal uptake for CYD1E and CYD3E as compared to the cerebellum and occipital cortex. Although the E-isomer of CYD3 showed the best in vitro and in vivo binding characteristics, its striatal uptake ratios (maximal value: 2.7 for striatum-to-cerebellum at 4 h p.i.) are too low to consider application in human Single Photon Emission Computed Tomography studies.
Acute intoxication and chronic therapy with the alcohol consumption deterrent dithiocarbamate disulfiram have been associated with several neurological complications perhaps involving the impairment of neurotransmitter pathways. In this study we have tested the hypothesis that dopaminergic malfunction is a critical component in disulfiram-evoked neurotoxicity. Disulfiram antagonized the in vitro striatal binding of [3H]tyramine, a putative marker of the vesicular transporter for dopamine, and the uptake of [3H]dopamine into striatal synaptic vesicles, with inhibitory constants (Ki) in the range of reported blood dithiocarbamate levels in treated alcoholics. Furthermore, disulfiram provoked a loss of radioactivity from [3H]dopamine-preloaded striatal vesicles, when added directly to the incubation mixture. Several metal-containing fungicide analogs were also potent displacers of specifically bound [3H]tyramine. Diethyldithiocarbamate (DDC), the major metabolite of disulfiram, had none of these effects. The intraperitoneal injection of a high dose of disulfiram and DDC into rats, mimicking acute intoxication, induced in vivo overflow of striatal dopamine from both a reserpine-sensitive (vesicular) and an alpha-methyl-p-tyrosine-sensitive (cytoplasmic) pool. The vesicular component of in vivo dopamine release resulted mainly from a direct activity of disulfiram, on the organelles (interaction with the carrier for dopamine plus membrane permeabilization) and indirectly through the mediation of serotonergic 5-HT3 receptors. DDC acted poorly at the vesicle membrane, and the in vivo releasing effect of dopamine was only partially prevented by the inhibition of 5-HT3 receptors, thus suggesting the role of additional mechanisms. It is concluded that disulfiram intoxication may acutely disrupt dopamine balance, an effect probably underlying some of the central neurotoxic, extrapyramidal symptoms associated with dithiocarbamate overdose.
Considerable progress has recently been reported in locating the cellular basis and molecular mechanisms of the circadian clock in the fruitfly, Drosophila melanogaster. To advance beyond the clock, towards the outputs that lie between the clock itself and the circadian rhythms in behaviour that it regulates, will present new challenges. This is because most behaviours are generated by complex neuronal circuits, which are themselves difficult to unravel. Recently described anatomical changes in the optic lobe of the related housefly, Musca domestica, exhibit a circadian rhythm that is, by contrast, relatively easy to assay. This rhythm is apparently controlled by at least two sets of diffuse modulatory neurones. One of these, immunoreactive to the peptide pigment-dispersing hormone, also expresses in Drosophila the product of the period (per) gene, the most widely studied of the so-called clock genes that are essential for the correct expression of circadian rhythmicity. The second, called LBO5HT, is immunoreactive to 5-HT, a widely invoked transmitter system in insect circadian rhythms. The identification of these elements, and a widening cascade of events which their actions apparently trigger, opens up new opportunities to examine old problems in the regulation of circadian rhythms in the nervous system.

Opioids have stimulatory as well as the traditional inhibitory effects on neurotransmission, but the underlying mechanisms are poorly understood. Here, Darren Smart and David Lambert review the stimulatory effects of opioids on second messengers, including inositol (1,4,5)-trisphosphate (IP3), protein kinase C (PKC), Ca2+, and cAMP, and propose that these coordinated changes at the cellular level underlie the facilitatory effects of opioids on neurotransmission. The evidence for a possible role for these stimulatory effects, particularly the activation of PKC by opioids, in the development of tolerance is also discussed.
We have developed two brain slice preparations for studying tectofugal visual pathways in the chick: conventional, 400-microns slices (&quot;thin slices&quot;), and &quot;thick slices&quot; which encompass the rostral pole of the optic tectum and the contralateral optic nerve. Stimulation was delivered with a bipolar electrode positioned in stratum opticum in thin slices and in the contralateral optic nerve in thick slices. While the latter preparation provided a means of exclusively and unambiguously activating retinal afferents, several lines of evidence also indicated that the evoked field potentials in thin slices were chiefly consequent to retinal afferent excitation: (1) the similarity of evoked field potentials in thin slices to those in thick slice preparations; (2) their precise localization in retinorecipient layers as shown by prelabeling from retina with FITC-coupled cholera toxin; (3) transmission delays appropriate for retinal afferents as established with the thick slice preparation; (4) patterns of labeled afferents resulting from applications of Dil crystals to slices fixed after recording; and (5) the similarity in transmitter pharmacology between thin and thick slice preparations. Pharmacological manipulations carried out with bath-applied antagonists indicated that glutamate is the principal retinotectal transmitter. The broadly active glutamate receptor blocker, kynurenic acid, reversibly eliminated the postsynaptic component of the field potential as confirmed with 0 Ca2+ saline. A complete block was also effected by the non-NMDA antagonists CNQX and DNQX. The specific NMDA antagonist, AP5, caused a smaller and variable reduction in response amplitude. The GABA antagonist, bicuculline, caused a prolongation of the monosynaptic field epsp in retinorecipient layers and an enhancement of the long-latency, negative wave in cellular layers below, supporting a late, excitation-limiting role for this inhibitory transmitter.
Endogenous opioid systems (i.e. opioid peptides and opioid receptors) modulate developmental events in the neonatal mammalian retina. In the present study, the mRNA encoding preproenkephalin A (PPE), the prohormone for the opioid growth factor (OGF), [Met5]-enkephalin, was studied in the developing and the adult retinas of rats. Northern analysis indicated the presence of a 1.4-kb message in the developing and adult retinas corresponding to rat PPE mRNA. Quantitation showed that PPE message was present on postnatal day 1 at 5% of the adult level, and increased during development until the adult quantity was reached by postnatal day 27. In situ hybridization experiments first detected the presence of PPE mRNA in retinal tissues during late gestation. In late prenatal and neonatal retinas, PPE message was associated with areas of the developing retina containing proliferating neuroblasts and postmitotic cells. Later in development, message appeared to be located primarily within the inner retina, with abundant PPE mRNA associated with putative horizontal cells of the inner nuclear layer (INL). The adult retina showed a similar pattern of PPE gene expression in the cells of the INL. These findings document that the gene expression in the retina for PPE begins in the fetus, continues during retinal development, and coincides with the presence of a PPE mRNA derivative ([Met5]-enkephalin) that regulates DNA synthesis during retinal ontogeny. Our results are also the first to show the presence of PPE message in the adult mammalian retina, suggesting transcription of an opioid gene in the mature visual system.
Accurate interpretations of image require the segmentation of motion signals produced by different objects with the simultaneous integration of motion signals produced by the same object. We investigated a motion integration paradigm in which the direction of an object's motion could only be determined from an integration of motion signals across the disconnected object edges. In a series of experiments we show that observers' ability to determine object motion depends significantly upon stimulus duration, luminance contrast and edge width. These effects suggest that the visual system, after some delay, relies upon relatively thick, luminance defined contour discontinuities to segment moving images.
A continuous fluorometric assay was adapted to measure the release of endogenous glutamate from cultured chick retinospheroids. The results obtained with this technique are compared with the release of [3H]D-aspartate from monolayer cultures of chick retina cells. It is shown that although excitatory amino acids may be released in a Ca(2+)-dependent manner, most of the neurotransmitter release from cultured retina cells occurs by reversal of the glutamate transporter. The presence of extracellular Ca2+ may actually inhibit glutamate release by the cells present in the retinospheroids, or the [3H]D-aspartate release by cells in monolayers, when veratridine is the depolarizing agent.



A cDNA encoding for a weakly inward rectifying K+ channel (sWIRK: salmon weakly inward rectifying K+ channel) was isolated from the masu salmon brain by expression cloning. The sWIRK channel exhibited the highest similarity with members of the ROMK1 subfamily, BIR10/KAB-2 (70% amino acid identity) and ROMK1 (46%). An ATP binding motif which is characteristic of this subfamily was also conserved. The sWIRK RNA was detected in the brain, but not in the heart, kidney, skeletal muscle, liver, testis, and ovary. In the brain, the expression was observed in the ependymoglial cells on the surface of the ventricles as well as in the small perineuronal glia-like cells in the midbrain and the medulla. When compared with the strong inward rectifier IRK1 channel, the sWIRK channel showed a much weaker inward rectification property, and the activation kinetics upon hyperpolarization was slower and less voltage-dependent. The slope conductance of the single channel inward current was 37 pS (140 mM K+o), and outward current channel events were also observed. The weak rectification of sWIRK is significant in that it has a negatively charged residue (glutamate) in the M2 region which is reported to cause strong inward rectification. By introducing a point mutation to remove this negative charge (glutamine), the sWIRK E179Q mutant channel lost its inward rectification property completely, and the single channel property (45 pS; 140 mM K+o) was ohmic up to highly depolarized potential, even in the presence of the physiological cytoplasmic blockers such as Mg2+ and polyamines.
The glutamate transporter, EAAC1, was localized immunocytochemically in goldfish, salamander, turtle, chicken, and rat retinas, using affinity-purified oligopeptide antibodies. Immunoreactive (IR) EAAC1 was present in the inner plexiform layer of all species, and in cell bodies of bipolar, amacrine, and ganglion cells of most species, but absent from photoreceptors and Mller's glial cells. Western blots revealed an IR-EAAC1 band at 70 kDa. Staining was abolished by preabsorption with EAAC1 peptide.
Three weeks following intermittent amphetamine exposure (2.5 mg/kg/day for 5 days), rats showed an enhanced locomotor response to an amphetamine challenge. Mifepristone (20 mg/kg) given 45 min prior to the challenge completely prevented the expression of amphetamine hyperresponsiveness. The glucocorticoid antagonist did not affect the locomotor response to amphetamine in drug-naive rats. These data demonstrate for the first time that glucocorticoid receptor antagonist treatment may prevent long-term hyperreactivity to drugs of abuse in individuals with a drug history.
A double-blind, placebo-controlled study examined the effects of 6 weeks of treatment with the adrenocorticotropin4-9 analogue ORG-2766 (40 mg/day) on brain event-related potentials (ERPs) of autistic children. In visual and auditory oddball paradigms (with task and nontask conditions), standard (80%), target (10%), and unexpected novel stimuli (10%) were presented. ORG-2766 (a) increased the occipital P3 component of the ERP to visual targets, (b) decreased the occipital P3 component of the ERP to auditory targets, (c) did not affect visual and auditory parietal target P3 components, and (d) also did not affect the A/Pcz/300 to auditory novel stimuli. In addition, ORG-2766 treatment increased the N1 component of the ERP to task-irrelevant auditory stimuli.
An allelic association study of excellent responders to lithium was conducted with a candidate gene (Golf, a G-protein receptor gene) and five other chromosome-18p markers. Golf is of special interest because it maps to a region of chromosome 18 where two independent groups (Berrettini et al., 1994; Stine et al., 1995) have found linkage to bipolar disorder. It has been proposed that G proteins are involved in the pathogenesis of bipolar disorder, and lithium, an effective prophylactic agent, is known to impair G-protein activation. To reduce heterogeneity--a common obstacle to genetic investigation--only patients who showed excellent response to lithium prophylaxis were studied. Fifty-five genetically unrelated excellent responders to lithium prophylaxis were compared with 94 normal subjects of similar ethnic background. The groups did not differ in either allele or genotype frequency for the tested markers. The data do not support the hypothesis that the tested loci confer a major susceptibility for affective disorders.
