Successful visual perception relies on the ability to keep track of distinct entities as the same persisting objects from one moment to the next. This is a computationally difficult process and its underlying nature remains unclear. Here we use the object file framework to explore whether surface feature information (e.g., color, shape) can be used to compute such object persistence. From six experiments we find that spatiotemporal information (location as a function of time) easily determines object files, but surface features do not. The results suggest an unexpectedly strong constraint on the visual system's ability to compute online object persistence.









Decapping is a critical step in the control of gene expression and is regulated by both positive and negative trans factors. Less is known about cis elements that promote decapping. In plants, following microRNA (miRNA)-directed cleavage of an mRNA, a uridine tract can be added onto the exposed 3' end of the resulting 5' fragment, which can promote 5' end decay. We now demonstrate that in mammalian cell extract, addition of five uridine residues to the 3' end of an RNA (U5) promotes decapping relative to an RNA lacking the uridines (U0). Although the decapping stimulation observed in extract required hDcp2, recombinant hDcp2 was unable to support differential decapping of the U0 and U5 RNAs, indicating that the stimulation was likely due to an indirect recruitment of hDcp2 to the RNA. Consistent with the promotion of 5' end decapping by the uridine tract, affinity purification with the U5 RNA revealed the presence of a decapping subcomplex at least consisting of hDcp2, Dcp1a, Edc4, LSm1, and LSm4 that were specifically bound to the U5 RNA but not the U0 RNA. In addition to promoting decapping, the U-tract stabilized the 3' end of the RNA by preventing 3' to 5' exonucleolytic decay to ensure 5' end directional degradation. These data suggest that following post-transcriptional oligo uridylation of an mRNA or mRNA fragment, the U-tract has the capacity to specifically stimulate 5' end decapping to expedite mRNA decay.

The purpose of the study was to assess whether postural stability in persons with spinal cord injury (SCI) could be affected by training. Ten post-rehabilitated persons with thoracic SCI performed 30 sessions of kayak ergometer training during a 10-week period. The ergometer was modified with a balance module adjustable in the medio-lateral direction. Before and after the training period, horizontal support-surface translations were presented randomly, either in the forward or backward direction, or to the side, while subjects sat in their own wheelchairs. The platform perturbation consisted of an unpredictable initial acceleration, followed by a constant-velocity phase and a predictable deceleration. Markers were applied on the trunk and movement data were recorded in 3D. Four kinematic responses of trunk angular and linear displacement were investigated. In general, postural stability was improved after training with smaller rotational and linear displacements of the trunk observed during both predictable and unpredictable translations in all directions. Thus, the training was able to improve the ability of persons with long-standing SCI to maintain an upright sitting posture in response to externally generated balance perturbations, which should imply an increased capacity to master similar challenges to balance in everyday life.
The heterogeneity of diagnoses included in the concept of chronic pain, as well as differences in adaptation to the situation involving chronic illness, imply the need for a variety of rehabilitation forms. Despite evidence concerning the success of multidisciplinary behaviour-orientated rehabilitation programmes, not all participants experience the expected change. The aim of the present study was to develop and test the face validity and the stability over time of a Swedish self-administered questionnaire: the Conceptions of Pain and Rehabilitation Questionnaire (CPRQ) for persons with chronic pain. The questionnaire is to be used as a guiding tool in planning for rehabilitation. Its purpose is to distinguish between individuals with expectations of and motivation for active rehabilitation and those with expectations of more supportive forms of therapy. The face validity was mainly obtained by target-group discussions including persons with chronic pain and rehabilitation staff with experience in the rehabilitation of persons with chronic pain. The test-retest stability analysis was performed using a model for identifying occasional and systematic disagreement. The questionnaire in its final form showed face validity and reliability in terms of stability over time. Further steps in the development process will include laying down the guiding principles for the questionnaire, based on new focus-group discussions, and completing work on the manual by including information about the origin of the questionnaire and instructions for its administration. Thereafter, the next step in the development process will be a test of responsiveness, i.e. to examine the degree to which the questionnaire really serves its purpose.

In this study, 56 patients affected by schizophreniform disorder (SFD), as their first lifetime mental disorder, were re-evaluated 7.9+/-4.7 yrs (2-17 yrs) after their first hospitalization. At follow-up, schizophrenia (SC) was diagnosed in 25 patients (46%), a mood disorder (MD) in 19 (35%), a non-SC psychotic disorder in 10 (18%) and no disorder in 2 (4%). The evolution towards SC was predicted by the presence of blunted affect (OR: 1.88) and by poor pre-morbid functioning (OR: 1.10) at the index hospitalization. Our data suggest that SFD may represent the first psychotic presentation of different disorders and the evolution towards SC or a MD seems to be influenced by the pre-morbid level of functioning and by the presence of blunted affect.


The development of a cell therapy for the neurodegenerative disorder Parkinson's disease is a realistic ambition. It is pursued by researchers and companies alike, and spans different donor tissue types of embryonic, fetal and adult origins. In this review, we briefly outline the past and current status of research and clinical trials with cell transplantation in Parkinson's disease. We discuss studies on donor tissue derived from embryonic ventral mesencephalon and assess the current research on various forms of stem cells of both embryonic and adult origins in the quest to develop a cell-based therapy for this debilitating movement disorder.
Psychiatric and psychosocial complications with pediatric epilepsy are more common than with other chronic medical illnesses. Epilepsy is a disorder of hyperexcitable neurons and may have direct neurophysiologic effects leading to psychiatric comorbidity. Epilepsy also requires significant lifestyle adjustment, and the psychosocial impact on children and their families may be severe. The scientific literature is underrepresented in terms of diagnosis and management of psychiatric and psychosocial comorbidity associated with pediatric epilepsy. However, recent scientific efforts have assisted in highlighting the impact of these comorbidities and in bringing them to greater clinical attention. This review incorporates the available evidence with an aim to describe effective strategies for diagnosis and management.

In the narrowed upper airway of patients with obstructive sleep apnea (OSA), a neuromuscular compensatory mechanism augments the activity of the upper airway dilator muscles in defense of upper airway patency, particularly during inspiration. We hypothesized that mechanical enlargement of the upper airway by a mandibular advancement oral appliance would permit a reduction in this neuromuscular compensation during wakefulness. To test this hypothesis, we focused on changes in the cross-sectional (CS) area of the upper airway before and after emplacement of a ventrally titrated oral appliance in 12 awake OSA patients. The CS areas at the end of tidal expiration (CS area-EET) and at the nadir of intraluminal pressure during inspiration (CS area-IN) were obtained using videoendoscopy. The median apnea-hypopnea index decreased with mandibular advancement. Before mandibular advancement, there was no difference between CS area-EET and CS area-IN in the velopharynx, oropharynx, and hypopharynx. This indicates that upper airway dilator muscle activity increased during inspiration to counteract the intraluminal negative pressure of the upper airway. After mandibular advancement, CS area-EET increased in the velopharynx, oropharynx, and hypopharynx, but CS area-IN was unchanged at any level and was less than CS area-EET in the velopharynx and oropharynx. These findings suggest that mandibular advancement enlarges the upper airway and may reduce upper airway dilator muscle activity during inspiration. We conclude that oral appliances act to return the upper airway towards a normal configuration and pattern of muscle function in OSA patients.
The evolution of animals is a consequence of selective specialization of cells, tissues, functional systems, and behavior. The objective of all life is successful reproduction and maintenance of the species. In order to accomplish this, all animals have evolved a division of behavior into two fundamental behavioral states: one characterized by the elaboration of adaptive behavior (activity) and the other by rest and behavioral quiescence (rest). In mammals, these states are designated wake and sleep. Activity and rest, wake and sleep, occur in precise 24-h cycles that have evolved as an adaptation to the solar cycle of light and dark. These cycles are referred to as circadian rhythms. Over the last 40 years, we have gained detailed knowledge about the neurobiology of both wake and sleep and the circadian control of their timing. We now know that circadian rhythms are present in cells throughout the body. In the brain, a small group of hypothalamic nerve cells, the suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN), functions as a master circadian pacemaker controlling the timing of the sleep-wake cycle and coordinating this with circadian rhythms in other brain areas and other tissues to enhance behavioral adaptation. In this review, I will summarize our current understanding of the organization and function of the circadian timing system and its role in the regulation of brain mechanisms of sleep and wake.
Circadian rhythms in health and disease have most often been described in terms of their phases and amplitudes, and how these respond to a single exposure to stimuli denoted as zeitgebers. The present paper argues that it is also important to consider the 24-h regularity in the repeated occurrence of the zeitgebers. The effect of the regularity of stimulation by light, melatonin, physical activity, body temperature, corticosteroids and feeding on synchronization within and between the central circadian clock and peripheral oscillators is discussed. In contrast to the phase shifts that can be recorded acutely after a single zeitgeber pulse, the effects of irregularly versus regularly timed zeitgeber can be studied only in long-term protocols and may develop slowly, which is a possible reason why they have received relatively little attention. Several observations indicate a reciprocal relation between the robustness of the endogenous circadian timing system and its dependency on regularly timed zeitgebers. Especially at old age and in disease, proper functioning of the circadian timing system may become more dependent on regularly timed exposure to zeitgeber stimuli. in such conditions, regularly timed exposure to zeitgeber appears to be highly important for health. After a concise introduction on inputs to the central and peripheral oscillators of the circadian timing system, the paper discusses the responses of the circadian timing system and health to (1) a chronic lack of zeitgeber stimuli; (2) fragmented or quasi-ultradian stimuli and (3) repeated phase shifts in stimuli. Subsequently, the specific relevance to aging is discussed, followed by an overview of the effects of experimentally imposed regularly timed stimuli. Finally, a possible mechanism for the gradually evolving effects of repeated regularly timed stimuli on the circadian timing system is proposed.
The goal of the present study was to characterize the effects of valence in facial cues and object targets on event-related potential (ERPs) indices of gaze-directed orienting. Participants were shown faces at fixation that concurrently displayed dynamic gaze shifts and expression changes from neutral to fearful or happy emotions. Emotionally-salient target objects subsequently appeared in the periphery and were spatially congruent or incongruent with the gaze direction. ERPs were time-locked to target presentation. Three sequential ERP components were modulated by happy emotion, indicating a progression from an expression effect to a gaze-by-expression interaction to a target emotion effect. These effects included larger P1 amplitude over contralateral occipital sites for targets following happy faces, larger centrally distributed N1 amplitude for targets following happy faces with leftward gaze, and faster P3 latency for positive targets. In addition, parietally distributed P3 amplitude was reduced for validly cued targets following fearful expressions. Results are consistent with accounts of attentional broadening and motivational approach by happy emotion, and facilitation of spatially directed attention in the presence of fearful cues. The findings have implications for understanding how socioemotional signals in faces interact with each other and with emotional features of objects in the environment to alter attentional processes.


Facioscapulohumeral muscular dystrophy (FSHD) is the third most frequent inherited muscle disease. Because in FSHD patients the coexistence of affected and unaffected muscles is common, myoblasts expanded from unaffected FSHD muscles have been proposed as suitable tools for autologous cell transplantation. Mesoangioblasts are a new class of adult stem cells of mesodermal origin, potentially useful for the treatment of primitive myopathies of different etiology. Here, we report the isolation and characterization of mesoangioblasts from FSHD muscle biopsies and describe morphology, proliferation, and differentiation abilities of both mesoangioblasts and myoblasts derived from various affected and unaffected muscles of nine representative FSHD patients. We demonstrate that mesoangioblasts can be efficiently isolated from FSHD muscle biopsies and expanded to an amount of cells necessary to transplant into an adult patient. Proliferating mesoangioblasts from all muscles examined did not differ from controls in terms of morphology, phenotype, proliferation rate, or clonogenicity. However, their differentiation ability into skeletal muscle was variably impaired, and this defect correlated with the overall disease severity and the degree of histopathologic abnormalities of the muscle of origin. A remarkable differentiation defect was observed in mesoangioblasts from all mildly to severely affected FSHD muscles, whereas mesoangioblasts from morphologically normal muscles showed no myogenic differentiation block. Our study could open the way to cell therapy for FSHD patients to limit muscle damage in vivo through the use of autologous mesoangioblasts capable of reaching damaged muscles and engrafting into them, without requiring immune suppression or genetic correction in vitro. Disclosure of potential conflicts of interest is found at the end of this article.



Relatively little research has been conducted on the relationship between alcohol misuse and suicidal behavior among the elderly. The current study's aim was to examine whether quantity and frequency of alcohol use and the interaction between these variables are related to current suicidal ideation, previous suicidal ideation/intent, and past suicide attempts in a community sample of 1,010 Australian adults over age 60. Results partially supported our hypotheses. The interaction between quantity and frequency of alcohol use was significant, suggesting that those who use alcohol less frequently but in greater quantities (i.e., binge drinking) are more likely to have a history of suicide attempts.


We investigated the impact of the nigrostriatal lesion on the olfactory tyrosine hydroxylase-immunoreactive (TH-ir) cells in monkeys. The majority of these TH-ir cells appeared in the glomerular layer of the olfactory bulb and many were immature but functional dopaminergic neurons. In parkinsonian monkeys the number of olfactory dopaminergic neurons increased up to 100% as compared to controls, but their phenotype did not change. This increased TH-ir cell population might be a direct consequence of the nigral cell loss and contribute to the hyposmia reported by Parkinson's disease patients.
Increased generation of reactive oxygen species (ROS) is implicated in &quot;glucose toxicity&quot; in diabetes. However, little is known about the action of glucose on the expression of transcription factors in hepatocytes, especially those involved in mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) replication and transcription. Since mitochondrial functional capacity is dynamically regulated, we hypothesized that stressful conditions of hyperglycemia induce adaptations in the transcriptional control of cellular energy metabolism, including inhibition of mitochondrial biogenesis and oxidative metabolism. Cell viability, mitochondrial respiration, ROS generation and oxidized proteins were determined in HepG2 cells cultured in the presence of either 5.5 mM (control) or 30 mM glucose (high glucose) for 48 h, 96 h and 7 days. Additionally, mtDNA abundance, plasminogen activator inhibitor-1 (PAI-1), mitochondrial transcription factor A (TFAM) and nuclear respiratory factor-1 (NRF-1) transcripts were evaluated by real time PCR. High glucose induced a progressive increase in ROS generation and accumulation of oxidized proteins, with no changes in cell viability. Increased expression of PAI-1 was observed as early as 96 h of exposure to high glucose. After 7 days in hyperglycemia, HepG2 cells exhibited inhibited uncoupled respiration and decreased MitoTracker Red fluorescence associated with a 25% decrease in mtDNA and 16% decrease in TFAM transcripts. These results indicate that glucose may regulate mtDNA copy number by modulating the transcriptional activity of TFAM in response to hyperglycemia-induced ROS production. The decrease of mtDNA content and inhibition of mitochondrial function may be pathogenic hallmarks in the altered metabolic status associated with diabetes.
The effect of docosahexaenoic acid (DHA) in modulating methylmercury (MeHg)-induced neurotoxicity was investigated in C6-glial and B35-neuronal cell lines. Gas chromatography measurements indicated increased DHA content in both the cell lines after 24 h supplementation. Mitochondrial activity evaluated by 3-(4, 5-dimethylthiazol-2-yl)-2, 5 diphenyltetrazolium bromide (MTT) reduction indicated that 10 microM MeHg treatment for 50 min led to a significant (p &lt; 0.001) and similar decrease in MTT activity in both the cell lines. However, DHA pretreatment led to more pronounced depletion (p &lt; 0.05) in the MTT activity in C6 cells as compared to B35 cells. The depletion of glutathione (GSH) content measured with the fluorescent indicator monochlorobimane was more apparent (p &lt; 0.001) in C6 cells treated with DHA and MeHg. The amount of reactive oxygen species (ROS) detected with the fluorescent indicator -- chloromethyl derivative of dichloro dihydro fluorescein diacetate (CMH(2)DCFDA) -- indicated a fourfold increase in C6 cells (p &lt; 0.001) as compared to twofold increase in B35 cells (p &lt; 0.001) upon DHA and MeHg exposure. However, the cell-associated MeHg measurement using (14)C-labeled MeHg indicated a decrease (p &lt; 0.05) in MeHg accumulation upon DHA exposure in both the cell lines. These findings provide experimental evidence that although pretreatment with DHA reduces cell-associated MeHg, it causes an increased ROS (p &lt; 0.001) and GSH depletion (p &lt; 0.05) in C6 cells.
The mammalian brain is equipped with reward-harvesting mechanisms that efficiently categorize and value the behavioral choices that lead to rewards necessary for survival. In this context, 'efficiency' embodies the idea of achieving maximum returns for minimal energetic investments and places a premium on how an animal represents its available options. But the capacity to efficiently represent choices is a profoundly difficult problem because representations for behavioral choice depend intimately on the statistics of information arriving not just from the sensory world and but also from within the creature itself. Any complete account of decision-making in mammals must efficiently connect the internal needs to the perceptual apparatus available to a creature moment-to-moment.
Classical lissencephaly is a human developmental brain disorder characterized by a paucity of cortical gyration and thickening of the cortical gray matter, leading to severe epilepsy and mental retardation. Loss-of-function mutations in the microtubule-associated protein encoding genes, PAFAH1B1 (encoding the protein LIS1), DCX and TUBA1A have been implicated in the pathogenesis of the condition. Animal models are required to understand the basis of this disease, which is a challenge, given that mice normally have a smooth cortex. Recent advances toward this goal have come from stepwise reduction in gene function, deletion of redundant genes and acute gene inactivation using short hairpin RNA (shRNA). These approaches have implicated genes that regulate the microtubule cytoskeleton during neuronal division, migration and maturation.
Cooling of the skin has long been thought to be beneficial in pain states but intense cold is clearly noxious. Does cooling lead to pain or gain? Rapid progress in this controversy has been made since the discovery of specific ion channels of the transient receptor potential (TRP) family that are activated by cooling of sensory nerve cells to below body temperature. This review focuses on the role of one of these, TRPM8, which has been implicated in cool sensation and cold pain by recent knockout mouse studies, but remarkably also appears capable of eliciting a novel analgesic gating control over noxious inputs in chronic pain states. We discuss hypothetical mechanisms that could bring about this composite profile. It is clear that new and highly selective agents will need to be developed to further evaluate the potential therapeutic opportunities offered by low temperature sensitive TRP channels.
Doppler indices are widely used to assess normal versus pathologic haemodynamics. In obstetrics, the assessment of abnormal values in some critical compartments, such as the umbilical arteries (UA), may be crucial in the clinical management of growth-restricted foetuses. It was recently proposed that the UA should be sampled in their perivesical portion (PVC), i.e., where they surround the foetal urinary bladder. However, measurements at this site could be biased by the degree of curvature of the vessel due to bladder filling. We investigated this possibility in vivo and in vitro, i.e., measurements on rubber tubes at different radii of curvature R(c). There was significant dependence of the Doppler indices A/B and PI on the vessel curvature and insonation angle; in fact, we recorded errors of about 25% when R(c) was 10 times larger than the radius of the vessel and about 100% when R(c) was five times larger than the radius of the vessel. Therefore, measurements of the UA at the PVC site should only be performed when the foetal bladder is empty.
Limb girdle muscular dystrophy type 2I (LGMD2I) is due to mutations in the fukutin-related protein gene (FKRP), encoding a putative glycosyltransferase involved in alpha-dystroglycan processing. To further characterize the molecular pathogenesis of LGMD2I, we conducted a histological, immunohistochemical, ultrastructural and molecular analysis of ten muscle biopsies from patients with molecularly diagnosed LGMD2I. Hypoglycosylation of alpha-dystroglycan was observed in all FKRP-mutated patients. Muscle histopathology was consistent with either severe muscular dystrophy or myopathy with a mild inflammatory response consisting of up-regulation of class I major histocompatibility complex in skeletal muscle fibers and small foci of mononuclear cells. At the ultrastructural level, muscle fibers showed focal thinning of basal lamina and swollen endoplasmic reticulum cisternae with membrane re-arrangement. The pathways of the unfolded protein response (UPR; glucose-regulated protein 78 and CHOP) were significantly activated in LGMD2I muscle tissue. Our data suggest that the UPR response is activated in LGMD2I muscle biopsies, and the observed histopathological and ultrastructural alterations may be related to sarcoplasmic structures involved in FKRP and alpha-dystroglycan metabolism and malfunctioning.
The replication of African swine fever virus DNA is initiated inside the nucleus of host cells, being followed by a longer cytoplasmic replication stage. In face of previous results demonstrating the nucleo-cytoplasmic shuttling activity of ASFV p37 structural protein when considered isolated from the virus infection, we performed a systematic analysis of the subcellular localization of p37 protein in ASFV-infected cells, aiming at identifying the role of the nuclear transport mediated by this protein in the viral replication cycle. We report that the p37 protein of the incoming virions is localized throughout the cell at early times post-infection, concentrated in distinct nuclear regions, while at later times the newly synthesized protein is detected exclusively in the cytoplasm of infected cells. Experiments using leptomycin B and siRNAs targeting the CRM1 receptor demonstrate that the subcellular localization of p37 protein is not affected by inhibition of the CRM1-mediated nuclear export pathway. Finally, results from in situ hybridization experiments show a co-localization of the ASFV DNA and p37 protein in specific nuclear regions at early times post-infection, and in viral factories at later times. Overall, these results support the involvement of p37 protein in the nuclear transport of the viral DNA during ASFV replication cycle.
Crowding is thought to be one potent limiting factor of reading in peripheral vision. While several studies investigated how crowding between horizontally adjacent letters or words can influence eccentric reading, little attention has been paid to the influence of vertically adjacent lines of text. The goal of this study was to examine the dependence of page mode reading performance (speed and accuracy) on interline spacing. A gaze-contingent visual display was used to simulate a visual central scotoma while normally sighted observers read meaningful French sentences following MNREAD principles. The sensitivity of this new material to low-level factors was confirmed by showing strong effects of perceptual learning, print size and scotoma size on reading performance. In contrast, reading speed was only slightly modulated by interline spacing even for the largest range tested: a 26% gain for a 178% increase in spacing. This modest effect sharply contrasts with the dramatic influence of vertical word spacing found in a recent RSVP study. This discrepancy suggests either that vertical crowding is minimized when reading meaningful sentences, or that the interaction between crowding and other factors such as attention and/or visuo-motor control is dependent on the paradigm used to assess reading speed (page vs. RSVP mode).
Bardet-Biedl syndrome (BBS) is an oligogenic syndrome whose manifestations include retinal degeneration, renal abnormalities, obesity and polydactylia. Evidence suggests that the main etiopathophysiology of this syndrome is impaired intraflagellar transport (IFT). In this study, we study the Bbs4-null mouse and investigate photoreceptor structure and function after loss of this gene. We find that Bbs4-null mice have defects in the transport of phototransduction proteins from the inner segments to the outer segments, before signs of cell death. Additionally, we show defects in synaptic transmission from the photoreceptors to secondary neurons of the visual system, demonstrating multiple functions for BBS4 in photoreceptors.
Faces, more than other objects, are identified more accurately when upright than inverted. This inversion effect may be linked to differences in expertise. Here, we explore how stimulus characteristics and expertise interact to determine the magnitude of inversion effects. Observers were trained to identify houses or textures. Inversion effects were not found with either stimulus before training, but were found following 5 days of practice. Additionally, the learning-induced inversion effects showed partial transfer to novel exemplars. Although similar amounts of learning were observed with both types of stimuli, inversion effects were significantly larger for textures. Our results suggest that the size of the inversion effect is not a reliable index of face-specific processing.
The extent to which object identification is influenced by the background of the scene is still controversial. On the one hand, the global context of a scene might be considered as an ultimate representation, suggesting that object processing is performed almost systematically before scene context analysis. Alternatively, the gist of a scene could be extracted sufficiently early to be able to influence object categorization. It is thus essential to assess the processing time of scene context. In the present study, we used a go/no-go rapid visual categorization task in which subjects had to respond as fast as possible when they saw a &quot;man-made environment&quot;, or a &quot;natural environment&quot;, that was flashed for only 26 ms. &quot;Man-made&quot; and &quot;natural&quot; scenes were categorized with very high accuracy (both around 96%) and very short reaction times (median RT both around 390 ms). Compared with previous results from our group, these data demonstrate that global context categorization is remarkably fast: (1) it is as fast as object categorization [Fabre-Thorpe, M., Delorme, A., Marlot, C., &amp; Thorpe, S. (2001). A limit to the speed of processing in ultra-rapid visual categorization of novel natural scenes. Journal of Cognitive Neuroscience, 13(2), 171-180]; (2) it is faster than contextual categorization at more detailed levels such as sea, mountain, indoor or urban contexts [Rousselet, G. A., Joubert, O. R., &amp; Fabre-Thorpe, M. (2005). How long to get to the &quot;gist&quot; of real-world natural scenes? Visual Cognition, 12(6), 852-877]. Further analysis showed that the efficiency of contextual categorization was impaired by the presence of a salient object in the scene especially when the object was incongruent with the context. Processing of natural scenes might thus involve in parallel the extraction of the global gist of the scene and the concurrent object processing leading to categorization. These data also suggest early interactions between scene and object representations compatible with contextual influences on object categorization in a parallel network.
Most individuals with Down syndrome show early onset of Alzheimer disease (AD), resulting from the extra copy of chromosome 21. Located on this chromosome is a gene that encodes the dual specificity tyrosine phosphorylation-regulated kinase 1A (DYRK1A). One of the pathological hallmarks in AD is the presence of neurofibrillary tangles (NFTs), which are insoluble deposits that consist of abnormally hyperphosphorylated Tau. Previously it was reported that Tau at the Thr-212 residue was phosphorylated by Dyrk1A in vitro. To determine the physiological significance of this phosphorylation, an analysis was made of the amount of phospho-Thr-212-Tau (pT212) in the brains of transgenic mice that overexpress the human DYRK1A protein (DYRK1A TG mice) that we recently generated. A significant increase in the amount of pT212 was found in the brains of DYRK1A transgenic mice when compared with age-matched littermate controls. We further examined whether Dyrk1A phosphorylates other Tau residues that are implicated in NFTs. We found that Dyrk1A also phosphorylates Tau at Ser-202 and Ser-404 in vitro. Phosphorylation by Dyrk1A strongly inhibited the ability of Tau to promote microtubule assembly. Following this, using mammalian cells and DYRK1A TG mouse brains, it was demonstrated that the amounts of phospho-Ser-202-Tau and phospho-Ser-404-Tau are enhanced when DYRK1A amounts are high. These results provide the first in vivo evidence for a physiological role of DYRK1A in the hyperphosphorylation of Tau and suggest that the extra copy of the DYRK1A gene contributes to the early onset of AD.
Attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) is a heterogeneous, highly heritable, disorder resulting from complex gene-gene and gene-environment interactions. The defining symptoms of hyperactivity, impulsivity and impaired sustained attention are not unique to ADHD. It is therefore not surprising that animals with distinctly different neural defects model the behavioural characteristics of the disorder. Consistent with ADHD being a developmental disorder, animal models are either genetic (spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHR), dopamine transporter (DAT) knock-out mice, SNAP-25 mutant mice, mice expressing a mutant thyroid receptor) or have suffered an insult to the central nervous system during the early stages of development (anoxia, 6-hydroxydopamine). It appears that neural transmission is impaired by either direct disruption of dopaminergic transmission or a more general impairment of neurotransmission that gives rise to compensatory changes in monoaminergic systems that are not sufficient to completely normalize neural function. In general, results obtained with animal studies suggest that dopamine neurons are functionally impaired. However, evidence obtained from some animal models suggests that the noradrenergic and serotonergic neurotransmitter systems may be the target of drugs that ameliorate ADHD symptoms.

This paper describes a low cost, fully implantable, single channel stimulator that can be manufactured in a research laboratory. The stimulator generates charge-balanced biphasic current pulses which are delivered to a bipolar electrode array for chronic stimulation of neural tissue in free-running laboratory animals such as rats and mice. The system is magnetically coupled and contains no batteries or external leadwires. The subject is placed in a chamber surrounded by three orthogonal coils of wire which are driven to generate a magnetic field. Currents are induced in wire coils in the implanted stimulator then regulated to produce biphasic current pulses with fixed amplitude of up to 500 microA. Phase duration is adjustable from 25 to 250 micros per phase. Charge balance is maintained by capacitive coupling and shorting of the electrodes between pulses. Stimulus rate can be continuously varied, and the temporal precision of the stimulus means that the stimulator can be used in behavioural experiments or for generating electrically evoked potentials. We describe the application of this stimulator for chronic electrical stimulation of the auditory nerve (i.e. a cochlear implant); however it will have application in other areas of neuroscience requiring controlled safe electrical stimulation of neural tissue over extended periods. Circuit diagrams and manufacturing details are provided as supplementary data.
We developed and characterized an assay that allows for rapid examination of migration of specific neuronal populations within a mixed population using the Boyden chamber principle. Migration of cerebellar interneurons and granule cells was examined using mice expressing enhanced green fluorescent protein (eGFP) under the glutamate decarboxylase (GAD(65)) and growth-associated protein-43 (GAP43) promoters, respectively. Brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) was used as the prototypic motogen for both populations. Fluorescent light-blocking inserts (FluoroBlok) with different pore sizes and densities were compared in a two-compartment assay. Immunodetection of polarity markers and nuclear staining indicated that dendrites and somata are preferentially extended through the pores in response to BDNF. Inserts coated with extracellular matrix (ECM) proteins were used to examine interactions between BDNF and the ECM during migration. ECM proteins alone stimulated migration when the lower side of the insert was coated, however coating of both sides of the insert slowed migration when compared to poly-D-lysine. Addition of a PI 3-kinase inhibitor to the lower compartment blocked BDNF-stimulated migration of both populations while a Src inhibitor reduced laminin-stimulated migration of interneurons, but not granule cells. We also examined use of neurons cultured from GAD(65)-eGFP mice as a reporter system for promoter activity. GAD(65)-eGFP mice may also be useful as a model for promoter regulation and the potential confounding effects of eGFP induction by the stimuli are also addressed. This assay allows for rapid analysis of motogens, substrates and signaling pathways that regulate migration of selected neuronal populations.
Structural equation modeling aims at quantifying the strength of causal relationships within a set of interacting variables. Although the literature emphasizes that large sample sizes are required, this method is increasingly used with neuroimaging data of a limited number of subjects to study the relationships between cerebral structures. Here, we use a simulation approach to evaluate its ability to provide accurate information under the constraints of neuroimaging. Artificial samples representing the activity of a virtual set of structures were generated under both recursive and non-recursive connectivity models. Structural equation modeling was performed on these samples, and the quality of the analyses was evaluated by directly comparing the estimated path coefficients with the original ones. The validity and the reliability are shown to decrease with sample size, but the estimated models respect the relative strength of path coefficients in a large percentage of cases. The &quot;smoothing method&quot; appears to be the most appropriate to prevent improper solutions. Both the experimental error and the external structures influencing the network have a weak influence. Accordingly, structural equation modeling can be applied to neuroimaging data, but confidence intervals should be presented together with the path coefficient estimation.
RNA interference (RNAi) has quickly become a very powerful technique for specifically suppressing or knocking down the expression of any desired gene. Many fields of research, including neuroscience, have benefitted from RNAi methods. It has been well documented that different small interfering RNAs (siRNAs) and small hairpin RNAs (shRNAs) vary greatly in terms of their effectiveness, and much attention has been focused on guidelines and algorithms for the selection of effective siRNAs. However, it has not been widely appreciated that a single shRNA-expressing plasmid can also produce widely varying levels of knockdown in different stably transfected cell lines derived from the same transfection. Here we report that knockdown of three distinct target proteins varies from minimal to almost complete in independent, stably transfected PC12 cell lines. This variability in knockdown among cell lines emphasizes the importance of characterizing a number of cell lines when attempting to establish stable knockdown cell lines, but also offers the possibility of studying the effects of graded levels of protein expression.
This study shows that two whole isolated preparations from the young mouse, the neocortical 'slab' and the hippocampal formation, are useful for imaging studies requiring both global monitoring using light transmittance (LT) imaging and high resolution cellular monitoring using 2-photon laser scanning microscopy (2PLSM). These preparations share advantages with brain slices such as maintaining intrinsic neuronal properties and avoiding cardiac or respiratory movement. Important additional advantages include the maintenance of all local input and output pathways, the absence of surfaces injured by slicing and the preservation of three-dimensional tissue structure. Using evoked extracellular field recording, we demonstrate long-term (hours) viability of both whole preparations. We then show that propagating cortical events such as anoxic depolarization (AD) and spreading depression (SD) can be imaged in both preparations, yielding results comparable to those in brain slices but retaining the tissue's three-dimensional structure. Using transgenic mice expressing green fluorescent protein (GFP) in pyramidal and granule cell neurons, 2PLSM confirms that these preparations are free of the surface damage observed in sliced brain tissue. Moreover the neurons undergo swelling with accompanying dendritic beading following AD induced by simulated ischemia, similar to cortical damage described in vivo.
Autoimmune optic neuritis is a common early manifestation of multiple sclerosis (MS), yet early therapeutic interventions for MS often have high ocular toxicity associated with increased risks for glaucoma, cataract, or retinopathy. This need to discover better early treatment options prompted our development of a sensitive and reliable means to quantify the broad range of pathologies that potentially develop very early in autoimmune optic neuritis. Tissue microfluorimetry was used to measure seven established markers for human MS pathology in normal and autoimmune optic nerves 13 days after antigen exposure, in a Brown Norway rat model of myelin oligodendrocyte glycoprotein (MOG) peptide (35-55)-induced autoimmune optic neuritis. Optic neuritis rats demonstrated early and significant pathologic changes in five established indices for neuroinflammation, immune infiltration, and demyelination that accurately modeled pathologies characteristic of MS. Two indices of MS-like axon damage advanced significantly within 13 days of antigen exposure. Fluorimetrically measured immunoreactivity (-ir) was significantly decreased for paranodin (PN, the requisite axonal paranodal junction protein) and significantly increased for amyloid precursor protein (APP), indicating loss of paranodal junctions and impaired fast axonal transport, respectively. Measurements showing decreased PN-ir with increased APP-ir quantitatively defined a pattern of early axonal damage in autoimmune optic neuritis.
During the preparation of a saccadic eye movement, a visual stimulus is more efficiently processed when it is spatially coincident with the saccadic target as compared to when the visual and the saccadic targets are displayed at different locations. We studied the coupling between visual selective attention and saccadic preparation by measuring orientation acuity of human subjects at different locations relative to the saccadic target and at different delays relative to the saccade cue onset. First, we generalized previous results (E. Castet, S. Jeanjean, A. Montagnini, D. Laugier, &amp; G. S. Masson, 2006) revealing that a dramatic perceptual advantage at the saccadic target emerges dynamically within the first 150-200 ms from saccade cue onset. Second, by varying the validity of the spatial cue for the discrimination task, we encouraged subjects to modulate the spatial distribution of attentional resources independently from the automatic deployment to saccadic target. We found that an independent component of attention can be voluntarily deployed away from the saccadic target. The relative weight of the automatic versus the independent component of attention increases across time during saccadic preparation.
The present study aims at evaluating the significance of zinc ions on the development of brain damage in a model of traumatic brain injury (TBI). The zinc ion specific autometallographic technique, the ZnSe(AMG) method, using silver enhancement of in vivo-captured zinc ions bound in zinc-selenium nanocrystals was applied to follow changes in the vesicular zinc pattern. Balb/c mice, ZnT3 knockout (ZnT3-Ko) mice, a mouse genetically knocked out for the protein ZnT3 responsible for sequestering zinc into synaptic vesicles, and littermates from the genetically un-manipulated mother type mice, wild type (Wt), were used. The Wt and the Balb/c mice exhibited instantaneously a boost in the zinc staining adjacent to the lesion involving all six neocortical layers. Ultra-structural analyses revealed that the in vivo created ZnSe nanocrystals were still confined to the vesicles of the zinc-enriched (ZEN) neurons in the neuropil. No differences between the Balb/c and Wt mice were seen at any time points. In the ZnT3-Ko mice the ZEN terminals stayed void of AMG grains, but a number of neuronal somata around the lesion became loaded with ZnSe nanocrystals. These silver-enhanced ZnSe nanocrystals were confined to the cytoplasm of the somata and their proximal dendrites. No such soma staining was seen in the Wt or Balb/c mice. We speculate that vesicular zinc may not contribute to neuronal damage following TBI.
Since the turn of the last century, the average life expectancy has risen considerably. Lengthening of life span has little merit if the quality of life is not preserved and in the elderly the decline in memory and cognitive abilities is of great concern. We applied a stereological technique, the planar rotator method, in an optical vertical design to get an estimation of the three-dimensional volume of the neocortical nuclei and perikaryon volume in neurons from brain neocortex and the four cortical lobes in 39 normal human subjects ranging from 18 to 93 years old. Although there was a trend with p values of 0.07, the mean global neocortical perikaryon volume was not significantly larger in men compared with women and the mean neuronal nuclear volume was not significantly different in the two sexes. Nonetheless, we found gender differences in both frontal and temporal cortices in the perikaryon volume, but not in the nucleus volume. Earlier findings of a higher neocortical neuron number in men compared with women was repeated in this study and, not unexpectedly, the sum of all neuronal perikaryon volume in neocortex was significantly higher in men than women, primarily as a result of a higher neocortical neuron number.
Bcl-2/adenovirus E1B 19-kDa-interacting protein 3 (BNIP3), a Bcl-2 homology domain 3 (BH3) domain only protein, has been identified as a mitochondrial mediator of hypoxia-induced cell death. Since cyanide produces histotoxic anoxia (chemical hypoxia), the present study was undertaken in primary rat cortical cells to determine involvement of the BNIP3 signaling pathway in cyanide-induced death. Over a 20 h exposure KCN increased BNIP3 expression, followed by a concentration-related apoptotic death. To determine if BNIP3 plays a role in the cell death, expression was either increased with BNIP3 cDNA (BNIP3+) or knocked down with small interfering RNA (RNAi). In BNIP3+ cells, cyanide-induced apoptotic death was markedly enhanced and preceded by reduction of mitochondrial membrane potential (delta psim), release of cytochrome c from mitochondria and elevated caspase 3 and 7 activity. Pretreatment with the pan-caspase inhibitor N-benzyloxycarbonyl-Ala-Asp-fluoromethyl ketone (zVAD-fmk) suppressed BNIP3+-mediated cell death, thus confirming a caspase-dependent apoptosis. On the other hand, BNIP3 knockdown by RNAi or antagonism of BNIP3 by a transmembrane-deleted dominant-negative mutant (BNIP3 delta TM) markedly reduced cell death. Immunohistochemical imaging showed that cyanide stimulated translocation of BNIP3 from cytosol to mitochondria and displacement studies with BNIP3 delta TM showed that integration of BNIP3 into the mitochondrial outer membrane was necessary for the cell death. In BNIP3+ cells, cyclosporin-A, an inhibitor of mitochondrial pore transition, blocked the cyanide-induced reduction of delta psim and decreased the apoptotic death. These results demonstrate in cortical cells that cyanide induces a rapid upregulation of BNIP3 expression, followed by translocation to the mitochondrial outer membrane to reduce delta psim. This was followed by mitochondrial release of cytochrome c to execute a caspase-dependent cell death.
Using functional magnetic resonance imaging and an experimental paradigm of instructed fear, we observed a striking pattern of decreased activity in primary motor cortex with increased activity in dorsal basal ganglia during anticipation of aversive electrodermal stimulation in 42 healthy participants. We interpret this pattern of activity in motor neurocircuitry in response to cognitively-induced fear in relation to evolutionarily-conserved responses to threat that may be relevant to understanding normal and pathological fear in humans.
There is experimental evidence indicating that, in humans, avoiding the concurrent activation of non-nociceptive A beta-fibers is a necessary condition for slower A delta-fiber nociceptive input to elicit reproducible event-related brain potentials (ERPs). Similarly, numerous studies have shown that for unmyelinated C-fiber nociceptive input to elicit ERPs, the concurrent activation of A delta-fibers must be avoided. As studies have shown that expectancy of the stimulus greatly conditions the magnitude of these evoked responses, it was hypothesized that the absence of cortical responses related to A delta- or C-fiber somatosensory input that is shortly preceded by A beta- or A delta-fiber somatosensory input could be explained by the fact that the first-arriving afferents render later-arriving afferents highly expected. To test this hypothesis, ERPs were recorded in response to (1) an electrical stimulus selectively activating A beta-fibers of the nervus radialis superficialis, (2) a CO2 laser stimulus selectively activating A delta-nociceptors located in the sensory territory of that same nerve, or (3) the combined activation of nociceptive and non-nociceptive fibers using both stimulation methods applied either concurrently, or with a short inter-stimulus interval. This paradigm aimed at preventing first-arriving inputs from increasing the expectancy of late-arriving inputs. Results showed that under these particular conditions, A delta-fiber ERPs were not abolished by preceding A beta-fiber input. However, their amplitude was significantly reduced. Furthermore, the amplitude of A beta-fiber vertex potentials was similarly reduced by shortly-preceding A delta-fiber input. As expectancy of the stimulus could not account for this reduction, a new hypothesis was proposed, based on processes related to the perceptual fusion of multisensory inputs.
Peripherin is an intermediate filament protein that is expressed in peripheral and enteric neurons. In the cochlear nervous system, peripherin expression has been extensively used as a differentiation marker by preferentially labeling the type II neuronal population at adulthood, but yet without knowing its function. Since the expression of peripherin has been associated in time with the process of axonal extension and during regeneration of nerve fibers in other systems, it was of interest to determine whether peripherin expression in cochlear neurons was a static phenotypic trait or rather prone to modifications following nerve injury. In the present study, we first compared the expression pattern of peripherin and beta III-tubulin from late embryonic stages to the adult in rat cochlea. The staining for both proteins was seen before birth within all cochlear neurons. By birth, and for 2 or 3 days, peripherin expression was gradually restricted to the type II neuronal population and their projections. In contrast, from postnatal day (P) 10 onwards, while the expression of beta III-tubulin was still found in projections of all cochlear neurons, only the type I population had beta III-tubulin immunoreactivity in their cell bodies. We next investigated the expression of peripherin in axotomized cochlear neurons using an organotypic explant model. Peripherin expression was surprisingly re-expressed in a vast majority of neurons after axotomy. In parallel, the expression and localization of beta III-tubulin and peripherin in dissociated cultures of cochlear neurons were studied. Both proteins were distributed along the entire neuronal length but exhibited complementary distribution, especially within the projections. Moreover, peripherin immunoreactivity was still abundant in the growth cone, whereas that of beta III-tubulin was decreasing at this compartment. Our findings are consistent with a model in which peripherin plays an important structural role in cochlear neurons and their projections during both development and regenerative processes and which is compatible with the assumption that frequently developmentally regulated factors are reactivated during neuronal regeneration.
Proinflammatory cytokines circulating in the periphery of early postnatal animals exert marked influences on their subsequent cognitive and behavioral traits and are therefore implicated in developmental psychiatric diseases such as schizophrenia. Here we examined the relationship between the permeability of the blood-brain barrier to interleukin-1 alpha (IL-1 alpha) in neonatal and juvenile rats and their later behavioral performance. Following s.c. injection of IL-1 alpha into rat neonates, IL-1 alpha immunoreactivity was first detected in the choroid plexus, brain microvessels, and olfactory cortex, and later diffused to many brain regions such as neocortex and hippocampus. In agreement, IL-1 alpha administration to the periphery resulted in a marked increase in brain IL-1 alpha content of neonates. Repeatedly injecting IL-1 alpha to neonates triggered astrocyte proliferation and microglial activation, followed by behavioral abnormalities in startle response and putative prepulse inhibition at the adult stage. Analysis of covariance with a covariate of startle amplitude suggested that IL-1 alpha administration may influence prepulse inhibition. However, adult rats treated with IL-1 alpha as neonates exhibited normal learning ability as measured by contextual fear conditioning, two-way passive shock avoidance, and a radial maze task and had no apparent sign of structural abnormality in the brain. In comparison, when IL-1 alpha was administered to juveniles, the blood-brain barrier permeation was limited. The increases in brain IL-1 alpha content and immunoreactivity were less pronounced following IL-1 alpha administration and behavioral abnormalities were not manifested at the adult stage. During early development, therefore, circulating IL-1 alpha efficiently crosses the blood-brain barrier to induce inflammatory reactions in the brain and influences later behavioral traits.
Transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) has opened important perspectives on the pathophysiological bases and potential targets of treatment strategies for idiopathic Parkinson's disease (IPD). Studies have been mainly focusing on motor cortical inhibitory phenomena. However, differences in patients and methods caused several discrepancies, particularly on the so-called long-latency cortical inhibition (LICI). We wanted to challenge such controversies by studying early, drug-nave patients, and by reproducing the original method that detected a pathologic LICI in IPD. We studied the motor potentials evoked in the first dorsal interosseous muscle on the more and the less parkinsonian side of the body in 18 asymmetrical untreated IPD patients in the early stages of their disease. We had 12 healthy controls. The TMS variables were the active motor threshold, the size of the motor-evoked potential, the cortical silent period and LICI. Average active motor threshold was similar in patients and controls, but its variability was significantly higher among patients (P&lt;0.05). There was a trend for the cortical silent period to be shorter on the more affected side of the patients (P=0.1). Patients, especially on their more affected side, exhibited a late LICI peak, which was absent among controls (P&lt;0.05). This effect was independent of the silent period duration. However, patients and controls having a short silent period also had a shorter LICI (P&lt;0.05). Changes in LICI had a strong trend to correlate to the severity of the parkinsonian signs (P=0.1). Thus, the present study definitely reinforced several previous TMS findings in IPD as a feature of the &quot;pure&quot; disease pathophysiology. The pathologic enhancement of late LICI can act as a candidate physiological hallmark of IPD, to be tested in various diagnostic or therapeutic circumstances.
Corticotropin-releasing factor (CRF) is a peptide neurotransmitter with high numbers of cell bodies found in limbic regions of the rat brain including the oval nucleus of the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis (BNSTov) and central nucleus of the amygdala (CeA) as well as in the paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus (PVN). CRF systems are activated in response to acute stressors and mediate a wide variety of physiological and behavioral responses to acute stress including aversive responses and responses that support appetitive behaviors. CRF is released in the ventral tegmental area (VTA), the cell body region of the mesocorticolimbic dopaminergic neurons, in response to acute stress and plays a role in stress-activation of appetitive behavior [Wang B, Shaham Y, Zitzman D, Azari S, Wise RA, You ZB (2005) Cocaine experience establishes control of midbrain glutamate and dopamine by corticotropin-releasing factor: a role in stress-induced relapse to drug seeking. J Neurosci 25:5389-5396]. However, although it is known that the VTA region contains significant levels of CRF-immunoreactive fibers [Swanson LW, Sawchenko PE, Rivier J, Vale WW (1983) Organization of ovine corticotropin-releasing factor immunoreactive cells and fibers in the rat brain: an immunohistochemical study. Neuroendocrinology 36:165-186], the source of CRF input to the region has not been identified. We used infusions of a fluorescent retrograde tracer, fluorogold, into the VTA region, combined with fluorescent immunocytochemistry for CRF to identify sources of this input. Double-labeled cells were found in BNSTov, CeA and PVN. The percent of fluorogold-labeled cells in each region that were CRF-positive was 30.8, 28.0 and 16.7% respectively. These data point to diffusely distributed sources of CRF-containing fibers in the VTA.
The aim of our study was to evaluate the therapeutic efficacy of combination therapy with etanercept and dexamethasone (DEX) in vivo in experimental murine model of spinal cord trauma, which was induced by the application of vascular clips (force of 24 g) to the dura via a four-level T5-T8 laminectomy. Spinal cord injury in mice resulted in severe trauma characterized by edema, neutrophil infiltration, and cytokine production followed by recruitment of other inflammatory cells, production of inflammation mediators, tissue damage, apoptosis and disease. Treatment of the mice with etanercept (1.25 mg/kg) and DEX (0.025 mg/kg) when administered as a combination therapy but not as a single treatment significantly reduced the degree of (1) spinal cord inflammation and tissue injury (histological score), (2) infiltration of neutrophils (MPO evaluation), (3) inducible nitric oxide synthase, nitrotyrosine, and cytokines expression (tumor necrosis factor-alpha and interleukin-1 beta), (4) and apoptosis (Terminal deoxynucleotidyltransferase-mediated UTP end labeling staining, Fas-ligand expression and Bax and Bcl-2 expression). In a separate set of experiments we have also clearly demonstrated that the combination therapy significantly ameliorated the recovery of limb function (evaluated by motor recovery score). Taken together, our results clearly demonstrate for the first time that strategies targeting multiple proinflammatory pathways may be more effective than a single effector molecule for the treatment of spinal cord trauma.
1. Histamine is able to elicit a dose-dependent rise in intracellular Ca2+ in a proportion of rat dorsal root ganglion (DRG) neurons. Pre-treatment with prostaglandin (PGE2) prior to a histamine challenge increases the proportion of neurons responding to low concentrations of histamine (10-100 microM). 2. The dose-response curve for histamine is shifted to the left by approximately two orders of magnitude following 45 s pre-treatment with 1 microM PGE2. 3. The phospholipase C (PLC) inhibitor 1-[6-[[17-beta-3-methoxyestra-1,3,5(10)-trien-17-yl-]amino]hexyl]-1H-pyrrole-2,5-dione (U73122) completely blocked the response to histamine (100 microM) in non-sensitized cells but, after PGE2 pre-treatment, this inhibitor reduced the proportion of cells responding to histamine by approximately a half. Removal of extracellular Ca2+ blocked the response in the remaining cells so that, in this subgroup of histamine sensitive neurons, the PGE2 sensitization is the result of activation of a Ca influx pathway. 4. The sensitization is dependent on an increase in cAMP as it is mimicked by pre-treatment with 8-bromo cyclic AMP (8-Br-cAMP) and by forskolin stimulation of adenylyl cyclase activity. It is inhibited by THFA (tetrahydrofuryl adenine) an inhibitor of adenylyl cyclase. The sensitization is also blocked by pre-treatment with N-[2-(p-bromocinnamylamino)ethyl]-5-isoquinolinesulfonamide (H89), an inhibitor of protein kinase A. We conclude that the PGE2 sensitization of DRG neurons to histamine is dependent on activation of the cAMP-protein kinase A cascade.
Cold hypersensitivity is a common sensory abnormality accompanying peripheral neuropathies and is difficult to treat. Progress has been made in understanding peripheral mechanisms underlying neuropathic pain but little is known concerning peripheral mechanisms of cold hypersensitivity. The aim of this study was to analyze the contribution of uninjured primary afferents to the cold hypersensitivity that develops in neuropathic rats. Rats with a lumbar 5 (L5) and L6 spinal nerve ligation (SNL, Chung model) but not sham, developed mechanical allodynia, evidenced by decreased paw withdrawal thresholds and increased magnitude of response to von Frey stimulation. Cold hypersensitivity also developed in SNL but not sham rats, evidenced by enhanced nociceptive behaviors induced by placement on a cold plate (6 degrees C) or application of icilin (a transient receptor potential M8 (TRPM8)/transient receptor potential A1 (TRPA1) receptor agonist) to nerve-injured hind paws. Single fiber recordings demonstrated that the mean conduction velocities of intact L4 cutaneous A delta- and C-fibers were not different between naive and SNL rats; however, mechanical thresholds of the A delta- but not the C-fibers were significantly decreased in SNL compared with naive. There was a higher prevalence of C-mechanoheat-cold (CMHC) fibers in SNL compared with naive, but the overall percentage of cold-sensitive C-fibers was not significantly increased compared with naive. This was in contrast to the numerous changes in A delta-fibers: the percentage of L4 cold sensitive A delta-, but not C-fibers, was significantly increased, the percentage of L4 icilin-sensitive A delta-, but not C-fibers, was significantly increased, the icilin-induced activity of L4 A delta-, but not C-fibers, was significantly increased. Icilin-induced activity was blocked by the TRPA1 antagonist Ruthenium Red. The results indicate plasticity in both A delta- and C-uninjured fibers, but A delta fibers appear to provide a major contribution to cold hypersensitivity in neuropathic rats.
Recent data indicate that striatal dopamine release induced by stimulation of delta-opioid receptors is a consequence of glutamate release. However, glial cells, which mainly support glutamate uptake and are involved in glutamate signaling and potentially express delta-opioid receptors, could participate to this effect. The present study investigates the contribution of glial cells in the releasing effects of [d-Pen2, d-Pen5]-enkephalin (DPDPE) by using the gliotoxin l-alpha-aminoadipate (l-alpha AA). Initially, we evaluated the early influence of l-alpha AA local infusion (10 microg/microL) on dialysate levels of glutamate and dopamine under basal or DPDPE treatment conditions. l-alpha AA produced a significant increase of glutamate and dopamine in dialysates (+76% and +50% respectively) and the concomitant infusion of DPDPE (10 microM) significantly enhanced this effect in an additive manner (+110% and +44% respectively). Secondly, we assessed the DPDPE effects on striatal glutamate and dopamine dialysate levels, 2 days after an intra-striatal injection of l-alpha AA which produced destruction of glial cells. This lesion, decreasing the basal glutamate dialysate level as well as its tissue content (by 55% and 36% respectively), prevented the increase in glutamate and dopamine extracellular levels induced by DPDPE. This result confirmed that the DPDPE-induced dopamine release requires an initial glutamate release. However, this effect could reflect a major disruption of glutamatergic transmission caused by the toxin, as suggested by the local infusion of glutamine (2.5 mM) which, in lesioned rats, prevented the decrease in the basal extracellular content of glutamate and restored the DPDPE-induced increase in glutamate and dopamine dialysate levels. Therefore, these results indicate that, although glial cells are essential to maintain functional glutamatergic neurotransmission, they are not directly involved in the process by which stimulation of striatal delta-opioid receptors induces extracellular glutamate release and, consecutively, dopamine release.
Knockout mice deficient in tissue plasminogen activator (tPA) are protected against hippocampal excitotoxicity. But it is unknown whether similar neuroprotection occurs after transient global cerebral ischemia, which is known to selectively affect the hippocampus. In this study, we tested the hypothesis that hippocampal cell death in tPA knockout mice would be reduced after transient global cerebral ischemia, and this neuroprotection would occur concomitantly with amelioration of both intra- and extracellular proteolytic cascades. Wild-type and tPA knockout mice were subjected to 20 min of transient bilateral occlusions of the common carotid arteries. Three days later, Nissl and terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase biotin-dUTP nick end labeling staining demonstrated that hippocampal cell death was significantly reduced in tPA knockout brains compared with wild-type brains. Caspase-3 and the two major brain gelatinases (matrix metalloproteinase (MMP)-9 and MMP-2) were assessed as representative measurements of intra- and extracellular proteolysis. Post-ischemic levels of caspase-3, MMP-9 and MMP-2 were similarly reduced in tPA knockouts compared with wild-type hippocampi. Taken together, these data suggest that endogenous tPA contributes to hippocampal injury after cerebral ischemia, and these pathophysiologic pathways may involve links to aberrant activation of caspases and MMPs.
The entorhinal cortex lesion paradigm is a widely accepted and efficient method to provoke reactive synaptogenesis and terminal remodeling in the adult CNS. This approach has been used successfully to contrast the profile of reactivity from various proteins associated with Alzheimer's disease pathophysiology in wild-type and apolipoprotein E (apoE)-deficient (APOE ko) mice. Results indicate that the production of the beta-amyloid 1-40 peptide (A beta 40) is increased in response to neuronal injury, with a timing that is different between wild-type and APOE ko animals. Moreover, we report that baseline levels of the A beta 40 peptide are significantly higher in the APOE ko mice. The expression of the apolipoprotein E receptor type 2 (apoER2) is also modulated by the deafferentation process in the hippocampus, but only in APOE ko mice. These results provide novel insights as to the molecular mechanisms responsible for the poor plastic response reported in apoE4-expressing and apoE deficient mice in response to hippocampal injury.
Day length cues are used by temperate zone birds to time seasonal changes in reproductive physiology and behavior. However, the neuronal and neurochemical circuits used to measure day length (photoperiodic time measurement; PTM), transduce light information and activate the reproductive neuroendocrine system have not been definitely established. Recent findings from our laboratory provide data showing dopamine (DA) neurons within the premammillary nucleus (PMM) of the caudal turkey hypothalamus are putative photoreceptive neurons. These neurons reach threshold activation when a brief pulse of light is provided during the photo-inducible phase for photosexual stimulation. To further clarify the role of PMM neurons in coding daylight information, we showed that by using double-label immunocytochemistry (ICC) these neurons are immunoreactive (ir) to both tyrosine hydroxylase (TH; the rate limiting enzyme in DA biosynthesis) and melatonin (MEL). Moreover, we found these neurons to express tryptophan hydroxylase 1 (TPH1; the first enzyme in MEL biosynthesis) and 5-HT N-acetyltransferase (AANAT; a key regulatory enzyme in MEL synthesis) mRNAs but not neuronal tryptophan hydroxylase 2 mRNA (TPH 2; the rate limiting enzyme in 5-HT pathway). Both TH and TPH1 mRNAs were shown to cycle rhythmically, and with opposite phases, in PMM neurons of birds kept under a diurnal illumination cycle (12-h light/dark; LD). These neurons could also generate 24 h TH and TPH1 mRNA expression rhythms with the same phase relationship in constant light (LL) and constant dark (DD). In addition, the expression patterns and amplitudes of TH and TPH1 mRNAs were different between long and short photoperiods. These findings may form the basis for an endogenous dual-oscillator circadian system within PMM DA-MEL co-localized neurons controlling reproductive seasonality in birds.
The phenomenon of dendritic transport and local translation of mRNA is considered to be one of the most fundamental mechanisms underlying long-term synaptic plasticity. Matrix metalloproteinase 9 (gelatinase B) (MMP-9) is a matrix metalloproteinase implicated in synaptic long-term potentiation and hippocampus-dependent memory. It was recently shown to be prominently up-regulated in the hippocampal dentate gyrus (DG) upon kainate-mediated seizures. Here, using a high resolution nonradioactive in situ hybridization at the light- and electron-microscopic levels, as well as subcellular fractionation, we provide evidence that in the rat hippocampus, MMP-9 mRNA is associated with dendrites and dendritic spines bearing asymmetric (excitatory) synapses. Moreover we observe that after kainate treatment the number of dendrites and synapses containing MMP-9 mRNA increases markedly. Our results indicate that we are observing the phenomenon of dendritic transport of seizure-induced MMP-9 mRNA.
The median preoptic nucleus (MnPO) has been implicated in the regulation of hydromineral balance and cardiovascular regulation. The MnPO also contains neurons that are active during sleep and in response to increasing homeostatic pressure for sleep. The potential role of these neurons in the regulation of arousal prompted an analysis of the efferent projections from the MnPO. Anterograde and retrograde neuroanatomical tracers were utilized to characterize the neural connectivity from the MnPO to several functionally important sleep- and arousal-regulatory neuronal systems in the rat brain. Anterograde terminal labeling from the MnPO was confirmed within the core and extended ventrolateral preoptic nucleus. Within the lateral hypothalamus, labeled axons were observed in close apposition to proximal and distal dendrites of hypocretin/orexin immunoreactive (IR) cells. Projections from the MnPO to the locus coeruleus were observed within and surrounding the tyrosine hydroxylase-IR cell cluster. Labeled axons from the MnPO were mostly observed within the lateral division of the dorsal raph nucleus and heavily within the ventrolateral periaqueductal gray. Few anterogradely labeled appositions were present juxtaposed to choline acetyltransferase-IR somata within the magnocellular preoptic area. The use of retrogradely transported neuroanatomical tracers placed within the prospective efferent terminal fields supported and confirmed findings from the anterograde tracer experiments. These anatomical findings support the hypothesis that MnPO neurons function to promote sleep by inhibition of orexinergic and monoaminergic arousal systems and disinhibition of sleep regulatory neurons in the ventrolateral preoptic area.
Neuropathic alterations of sensory nerves involved in the mediation of neurogenic inflammation of the meninges may contribute to the increased incidence of headaches in diabetics. In the rat, activation of capsaicin-sensitive nociceptors, which express the transient receptor potential vanilloid type 1 (TRPV1) receptor, induces meningeal vasodilatation, a significant component of neurogenic inflammation, through the release of calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP). This study examines the effects of streptozotocin-induced diabetes on TRPV1 receptor-mediated neurogenic sensory vasodilatation, CGRP release and nerve fiber density in the rat dura mater. In a cranial window preparation, epidural application of capsaicin (10(-7) M) produced distinct vasodilatory responses in control animals as measured by laser Doppler flowmetry. In diabetic rats, capsaicin-induced vasodilatation was reduced or even abolished 6, but not 2 or 4 weeks after diabetes induction. In contrast, vasoconstriction, a non-neurogenic response to capsaicin at a higher concentration (10(-5) M), was not altered in diabetic rats. The vasodilatory effects of histamine (10(-5) M), acetylcholine (10(-4) M) and CGRP (10(-5) M) were similar in control, diabetic and insulin-treated diabetic animals. In diabetic rats, a significant decrease in the capsaicin-evoked release of CGRP and reduction in the density of TRPV1-immunoreactive (IR) nerves were demonstrated. Treatment of the diabetic rats with insulin restored both the vasodilatory response and the capsaicin-induced CGRP release toward control values. In conclusion, this study revealed a marked impairment of meningeal TRPV1-IR nerves in streptozotocin diabetic rats by showing reduced neurogenic sensory vasodilatation, decreased capsaicin-evoked CGRP release and reduction in the number of TRPV1-IR nerve fibers of the dura mater. The findings suggest that capsaicin-sensitive afferents may play an important role in meningeal nociceptor function and their dysfunction, e.g. due to a limited removal of inflammatory mediators and/or tissue metabolites from the meningeal tissue, may contribute to the enhanced incidence of headaches in diabetics.

Homer proteins are linked to both dopamine and glutamate neurotransmission and are putatively involved in the mechanisms of action of psychoactive drugs. In the present study, we evaluated the effects of compounds differently impacting dopaminergic neurotransmission on the transcripts of different Homer isoforms in rat forebrain by means of in situ hybridization histochemistry. Animals were treated with the typical antipsychotic haloperidol 0.8 mg/kg, the atypical antipsychotic clozapine 15 mg/kg, the dopamine partial agonist aripiprazole 12 mg/kg and 30 mg/kg and the dopamine transporter inhibitor GBR12909 30 mg/kg in acute and chronic paradigms. Homer 1a and ania-3 were induced in the caudate-putamen by acute administration of aripiprazole 12 mg/kg, while aripiprazole 30 mg/kg had no significant effects. Furthermore, acute haloperidol and GBR12909 induced both the splice variants of Homer 1 in the caudate-putamen. In the nucleus accumbens, aripiprazole 30 mg/kg and clozapine increased Homer 1a and ania-3 transcripts in the shell, whereas haloperidol induced expression of both isoforms in core and shell. Aripiprazole 30 mg/kg increased Homer 1a in the frontal cortex. Homer 1 splice variants were both up-regulated by GBR12909 in the frontal cortex, whereas GBR12909 induced only ania-3 in the parietal cortex. In the chronic paradigm, results showed a significant induction of Homer 1a and ania-3 in the striatum by haloperidol and aripiprazole. The constitutive Homer 2 isoform was overexpressed in the lateral septum by chronic administration of haloperidol and clozapine. In the cortex the expression of Homer 1a and ania-3 was down-regulated by chronic clozapine and aripiprazole. These results may indicate a differential modulation of Homer genes by compounds differently regulating dopaminergic neurotransmission in discrete regions of the rat forebrain and suggest that Homer could be a molecular marker of the involvement of the glutamatergic postsynaptic density in antipsychotic mechanisms of action.
The possible involvement of fibroblast growth factor receptor (FGFR) activation in the dorsal root ganglion (DRG) was examined following peripheral nerve injury in the rat. Ligation of the sciatic nerve down-regulated FGFR2, -3 and -4 mRNA; however, the expression of FGFR1 mRNA showed no change. Activation of FGFR was examined by immunohistochemistry using an antibody of the phosphorylated form of FGFR1-4. Ligation of the sciatic nerve produced phosphorylation of FGFR in the L4 and 5 DRG ipsilateral to the injury, starting at 3 days after the lesion and persisting for more than 30 days. Substantial activation of FGFR was observed, mainly in unmyelinated small DRG neurons that co-expressed phosphorylated p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK). Continuous intrathecal infusion of the FGFR1 inhibitor, 3-[3-(2-carboxyethyl)-4-methylpyrrol-2-methylidenyl]-2-indolinone, reduced p38 MAPK phosphorylation in the DRG and pain-related behaviors in the partial sciatic nerve model rat without affecting on the activation of spinal glia cells (microglia and astrocyte). In the injured small DRG neurons, activation of FGFR1 may contribute to the generation of neuropathic pain by activating p38 MAPK.
The mechanism by which the sedative and amnestic recreational drug gamma hydroxybutyric acid (GHB) acts is controversial. Some studies indicate that it acts at its unique receptor, while others demonstrate effects mediated through the GABAB receptor. We examined the effect of GHB on evoked GABAA receptor-mediated mono- and polysynaptic inhibitory postsynaptic currents (IPSCs) as well as on N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA) and AMPA-mediated excitatory postsynaptic currents (EPSCs) in layers II/III pyramidal cells of the frontal cortex of rat brain. One millimolar (mM) GHB suppressed monosynaptic IPSCs by 20%, whereas polysynaptic IPSCs were reduced by 56%. GHB (1 mM) also produced a significant suppression of NMDA-mediated EPSCs by 53% compared with 27% suppression of AMPA-mediated EPSCs. All effects of GHB on IPSCs and EPSCs were reversed by the specific GABAB antagonist CGP 62349, but not by the GHB receptor antagonist (2E)-5-hydroxy-5,7,8,9-tetrahydro-6H-benzo[a][7]annulen-6-ylidene ethanoic acid. Consistent with a presynaptic site of action, GHB reduced the frequency but not the amplitude of AMPA receptor-mediated mEPSCs and had no effect on postsynaptic currents evoked by direct application of NMDA. Finally, even though GHB appeared to be acting at presynaptic GABAB receptors, GHB and the GABAB agonist baclofen appeared to have opposite potencies for depression of NMDA- vs. AMPA-mediated EPSCs. GHB showed a preference for depressing NMDA responses while baclofen more potently suppressed AMPA responses. The suppression of NMDA more than AMPA responses by GHB at intoxicating doses may make it attractive as a recreational drug and may explain why GHB is abused and baclofen is not.
The c-Jun N-terminal kinase (JNK) signaling pathway plays a critical role in ischemic brain injury. The d-retro-inverso form of c-Jun N-terminal kinase-inhibitor (D-JNKI1), a cell-permeable inhibitor of JNK, powerfully reduces neuronal death induced by permanent and transient ischemia, even when administered 6 h after the ischemic insult, offering a clinically relevant window. We investigated the JNK molecular cascade activation in rat cerebral ischemia and the effects of D-JNKI1 on this cascade. c-Jun activation starts after 3 h after ischemia and peaks at 6 h in the ischemic core and in the penumbra at 1 h and at 6 h respectively. The 6 h c-Jun activation peak correlates well with that of P-JNK. We also examined the activation of the two direct JNK activators, MAP kinase kinase 4 (MKK4) and MAP kinase kinase 7 (MKK7). MKK4 showed the same time course as JNK in both core and penumbra, reaching peak activation at 6 h. MKK7 did not show any significant increase of phosphorylation in either core or penumbra. D-JNKI1 markedly prevented the increase of P-c-Jun in both core and penumbra and powerfully inhibited caspase-3 activation in the core. These results confirm that targeting the JNK cascade using the TAT cell-penetrating peptide offers a promising therapeutic approach for ischemia, raising hopes for human neuroprotection, and elucidates the molecular pathways leading to and following JNK activation.
A series of novel cyanoguanidine derivatives was designed and synthesized. Condensation of N-(1-benzotriazol-1-yl-2,2-dichloropropyl)-substituted benzamides with N-(substituted-pyridin-3-yl)-N'-cyanoguanidines furnished N-{2,2-dichloro-1-[N'-(substituted-pyridin-3-yl)-N''-cyanoguanidino]propyl}-substituted benzamide derivatives. These agents were glyburide-reversible potassium channel openers and hyperpolarized human bladder cells as assessed by the FLIPR membrane potential dye (KATP-FMP). These compounds were also potent full agonists in relaxing electrically stimulated pig bladder strips, an in vitro model of overactive bladder. The most active compound 9 was evaluated for in vivo efficacy and selectivity in a pig model of bladder instability. Preliminary pharmacokinetic studies in dog demonstrated excellent oral bioavailability and a t1/2 of 15 h. The synthesis, SAR studies, and biological properties of these agents are discussed.
Ca2+-triggered synchronous neurotransmitter release is well described, but asynchronous release-in fact, its very existence-remains enigmatic. Here we report a quantitative description of asynchronous neurotransmitter release in calyx-of-Held synapses. We show that deletion of synaptotagmin 2 (Syt2) in mice selectively abolishes synchronous release, allowing us to study pure asynchronous release in isolation. Using photolysis experiments of caged Ca2+, we demonstrate that asynchronous release displays a Ca2+ cooperativity of approximately 2 with a Ca2+ affinity of approximately 44 microM, in contrast to synchronous release, which exhibits a Ca2+ cooperativity of approximately 5 with a Ca2+ affinity of approximately 38 muM. Our results reveal that release triggered in wild-type synapses at low Ca2+ concentrations is physiologically asynchronous, and that asynchronous release completely empties the readily releasable pool of vesicles during sustained elevations of Ca2+. We propose a dual-Ca2+-sensor model of release that quantitatively describes the contributions of synchronous and asynchronous release under conditions of different presynaptic Ca2+ dynamics.


Chronic morphine administration induces functional and morphological alterations in the mesolimbic dopamine system (MLDS), which is believed to be the neurobiological substrate of opiate addiction. Our previous studies have demonstrated that peripheral electrical stimulation (PES) can suppress morphine withdrawal syndrome and morphine-induced conditioned place preference (CPP) in rats. The present study was designed to investigate if PES could reverse the cell size reduction induced by chronic morphine treatment in the ventral tegmental area (VTA), which is an important area of the MLDS. Immunohistochemical observations showed that the cell size of dopaminergic neurons in the VTA reduced significantly in the chronic morphine-treated rats with a concomitant decrease in the number of BDNF-positive cells compared to the saline-treated rats. A much milder morphological change, accompanying with an increased number of BDNF-positive cells, was observed in dopaminergic neurons in the rats that received repeated 100 Hz PES after morphine withdrawal. In another experiment, enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) reconfirmed a significant up-regulation of BDNF protein level in the VTA in the rats received 100 Hz PES after morphine abstinence. These results indicate that PES could facilitate the morphological recovery of the VTA dopaminergic cells damaged by chronic morphine treatment and up-regulate the BDNF protein level in the VTA. Activation of endogenous BDNF by PES may play a role in the recovery of the injured dopaminergic neurons in the morphine addictive rats.
A large body of evidence indicates that the hormone erythropoietin (EPO) exerts beneficial effects in the central nervous system (CNS). To date, EPO's effect has been assessed in several experimental models of brain and spinal cord injury. This study was conducted to validate whether treatment with recombinant human EPO (rHuEPO) would limit the extent of injury following experimental TBI. Experimental TBI was induced in rats by a cryogenic injury model. rHuEPO or placebo was injected intraperitoneally immediately after the injury and then every 8 h until 2 or 14 days. Forty-eight hours after injury brain water content, an indicator of brain edema, was measured with the wet-dry method and blood-brain barrier (BBB) breakdown was evaluated by assay of Evans blue extravasation. Furthermore, extent of cerebral damage was assessed. Administration of rHuEPO markedly improved recovery from motor dysfunction compared with placebo group (P&lt;0.05). Brain edema was significantly reduced in the cortex of the EPO-treated group relative to that in the placebo-treated group (80.6+/-0.3% versus 91.8%+/-0.8% respectively, P&lt;0.05). BBB breakdown was significantly lower in EPO-treated group than in the placebo-treated group (66.2+/-18.7 mug/g versus 181.3+/-21 mug/g, respectively, P&lt;0.05). EPO treatment reduced injury volume significantly compared with placebo group (17.4+/-5.4 mm3 versus 37.1+/-5.3 mm3, P&lt;0.05). EPO, administered in its recombinant form, affords significant neuroprotection in experimental TBI model and may hold promise for future clinical applications.
Estrogen depletion in postmenopausal women is a significant risk factor for the development of Alzheimer's disease (AD), and estrogen-based hormone therapy may reduce this risk. However, the effects of progesterone both alone and in combination with estrogen on AD neuropathology remain unknown. In this study, we used the triple transgenic mouse model of AD (3xTg-AD) to investigate the individual and combined effects of estrogen and progesterone on beta-amyloid (Abeta) accumulation, tau hyperphosphorylation, and hippocampal-dependent behavioral impairments. In gonadally intact female 3xTg-AD mice, AD-like neuropathology was apparent by 3 months of age and progressively increased through age 12 months, a time course that was paralleled by behavioral impairment. Ovariectomy-induced depletion of sex steroid hormones in adult female 3xTg-AD mice significantly increased Abeta accumulation and worsened memory performance. Treatment of ovariectomized 3xTg-AD mice with estrogen, but not progesterone, prevented these effects. When estrogen and progesterone were administered in combination, progesterone blocked the beneficial effect of estrogen on Abeta accumulation but not on behavioral performance. Interestingly, progesterone significantly reduced tau hyperphosphorylation when administered both alone and in combination with estrogen. These results demonstrate that estrogen and progesterone independently and interactively regulate AD-like neuropathology and suggest that an optimized hormone therapy may be useful in reducing the risk of AD in postmenopausal women.
The formation of monogamous pair bonds, by prairie voles, is facilitated by activation of dopamine (DA) D2-like, but not D1-like, receptors within the nucleus accumbens (NAcc) shell. Because DA exerts opposing regulation of cAMP production depending on the subtype of receptor activated, we tested the hypothesis that DA regulation of pair bond formation is mediated via the cAMP signaling cascade. Consistent with activation of D2-like receptors, decreasing cAMP signaling, by blocking cAMP binding sites on protein kinase A (PKA), facilitated partner preference formation. Conversely, increasing cAMP signaling, by preventing the activation of inhibitory G-proteins, activating stimulatory G-proteins, or stimulating PKA prevented the formation of mating-induced partner preferences. These manipulations were effective in the shell, but not the core, of the NAcc. Together, these data demonstrate opposing regulation over pair bond formation by cAMP signaling within the NAcc shell.
GABA(A) receptors (GABA(A)Rs) are the major mediators of fast synaptic inhibition in the brain. In neurons, these receptors undergo significant rates of endocytosis and exocytosis, processes that regulate both their accumulation at synaptic sites and the efficacy of synaptic inhibition. Here we have evaluated the role that neuronal activity plays in regulating the residence time of GABA(A)Rs on the plasma membrane and their targeting to synapses. Chronic blockade of neuronal activity dramatically increases the level of the GABA(A)R ubiquitination, decreasing their cell surface stability via a mechanism dependent on the activity of the proteasome. Coincident with this loss of cell surface expression levels, TTX treatment reduced both the amplitude and frequency of miniature inhibitory synaptic currents. Conversely, increasing the level of neuronal activity decreases GABA(A)R ubiquitination enhancing their stability on the plasma membrane. Activity-dependent ubiquitination primarily acts to reduce GABA(A)R stability within the endoplasmic reticulum and, thereby, their insertion into the plasma membrane and subsequent accumulation at synaptic sites. Thus, activity-dependent ubiquitination of GABA(A)Rs and their subsequent proteasomal degradation may represent a potent mechanism to regulate the efficacy of synaptic inhibition and may also contribute to homeostatic synaptic plasticity.
Endosomal membrane trafficking in dendritic spines is important for proper synaptic function and plasticity. However, little is known about the molecular identity and functional compartmentalization of the membrane trafficking machinery operating at the postsynaptic terminal. Here we report that the transport of AMPA-type glutamate receptors into synapses occurs in two discrete steps, and we identify the specific endosomal functions that control this process during long-term potentiation. We found that Rab11-dependent endosomes translocate AMPA receptors from the dendritic shaft into spines. Subsequently, an additional endosomal trafficking step, controlled by Rab8, drives receptor insertion into the synaptic membrane. Separate from this receptor delivery route, we show that Rab4 mediates a constitutive endosomal recycling within the spine. This Rab4-dependent cycling is critical for maintaining spine size but does not influence receptor transport. Therefore, our data reveal a highly compartmentalized endosomal network within the spine and identify the molecular components and functional organization of the membrane organelles that mediate AMPA receptor synaptic delivery during plasticity.
There is evidence from neuroimaging that the prefrontal cortex may be involved in establishing task set activity in advance of presentation of the task itself. To find out whether it plays an essential role, we examined patients with unilateral lesions of the rostral prefrontal cortex. They were first instructed as to whether to perform a spatial or a verbal working memory task and then given spatial and verbal items after a delay of 4-12 s. The patients showed an increase in switch costs, making more errors by repeating what they had done on the previous trial. They were able to establish regional task set activity during the instruction delay, as evidenced by sustained changes in the blood oxygenation level-dependent signal in caudal frontal regions. However, in contrast to healthy controls, they were less able to maintain functional connectivity among the surviving task-related brain regions, as evidenced by reduced correlations between them during instruction delays. The results suggest that the left rostral prefrontal cortex is indeed required for establishing a cognitive set but that the essential function is to support the functional connectivity among the task-related regions.
The mGluR-dependent endocytosis of AMPA receptors (AMPARs) in the CA1 region is protein synthesis dependent. However, why this form of trafficking, and not that mediated by NMDA receptor activation, is dependent on protein translation is unclear. Here we have studied the contribution of the cytoskeletal microtubule-associated protein 1B (MAP1B) to the pathway-specific internalization of AMPARs. Treatments of cultured neurons with 3,4-dihydroxyphenylglycol (DHPG) or NMDA, both of which drive AMPAR endocytosis, caused a translation-dependent increase in the dendritic levels of MAP1B protein. Although interfering with protein synthesis using short interfering RNA (siRNA) to eEF2 kinase (eukaryotic elongation factor 2 kinase) blocked the dendritic MAP1B increase by both pathways, it selectively blocked the DHPG- and not the NMDA-induced AMPAR endocytosis. In support of MAP1B synthesis contributing to metabotropic glutamate receptor (mGluR)-mediated AMPAR endocytosis, siRNA against MAP1B in CA1 cultured neurons specifically blocked the DHPG-induced AMPAR internalization. Previous studies suggest a direct interaction between MAP1B and the AMPAR-binding protein GRIP1. Biochemical studies establish that MAP1B associates with GRIP1 and forms a complex with GluR2 in vivo in rat hippocampus. Furthermore, the interaction between MAP1B and GRIP1 increased significantly in acute slices after treatment with DHPG and not NMDA. Together, these findings suggest that MAP1B plays a selective role in the DHPG-induced endocytosis of AMPARs, perhaps through its interaction with GRIP1.
A variety of studies have shown that motor cortical areas can be activated by observation of familiar actions. Here, we describe single-neuron responses in monkey primary motor (MI) and dorsal premotor (PMd) cortices during passive observation and execution of a familiar task. We show that the spiking modulation, preferred directions, and encoded information of cells in MI and PMd remain consistent during both observation and movement. Furthermore, we find that the presence of a visual target is necessary to elicit this congruent neural activity during observation. These findings along with results from our analysis of the oscillatory power in the beta frequency of the local field potential are consistent with previous imaging and EEG studies that have suggested that congruence between observation and action is a general feature of the motor system, even outside of canonical &quot;mirror&quot; areas. Such congruent activity has proposed relevance to motor learning, mimicry, and communication and has practical applications for the development of motor-cortical neuroprostheses in paralyzed patients.
Phosphorylation-dependent changes in AMPA receptor function have a crucial role in activity-dependent forms of synaptic plasticity such as long-term potentiation (LTP) and long-term depression (LTD). Although three previously identified phosphorylation sites in AMPA receptor glutamate receptor 1 (GluR1) subunits (S818, S831, and S845) appear to have important roles in LTP and LTD, little is known about the role of other putative phosphorylation sites in GluR1. Here, we describe the characterization of a recently identified phosphorylation site in GluR1 at threonine 840. The results of in vivo and in vitro phosphorylation assays suggest that T840 is not a substrate for protein kinases known to phosphorylate GluR1 at previously identified phosphorylation sites, such as protein kinase A, protein kinase C, and calcium/calmodulin-dependent kinase II. Instead, in vitro phosphorylation assays suggest that T840 is a substrate for p70S6 kinase. Although LTP-inducing patterns of synaptic stimulation had no effect on GluR1 phosphorylation at T840 in the hippocampal CA1 region, bath application of NMDA induced a strong, protein phosphatase 1- and/or 2A-mediated decrease in T840 phosphorylation. Moreover, GluR1 phosphorylation at T840 was transiently decreased by a chemical LTD induction protocol that induced a short-term depression of synaptic strength and persistently decreased by a chemical LTD induction protocol that induced a lasting depression of synaptic transmission. Together, our results show that GluR1 phosphorylation at T840 is regulated by NMDA receptor activation and suggest that decreases in GluR1 phosphorylation at T840 may have a role in LTD.
Mutations in the PSEN1 gene encoding presenilin 1 (PS1) are linked to a vast majority of pedigrees with early-onset, autosomal dominant forms of familial Alzheimer's disease (FAD). Lewy body (LB) pathology is frequently found in the brains of FAD patients harboring PSEN1 mutations. We recently reported on a novel PS1 mutation with the deletion of threonine at codon 440 (deltaT440) in a familial case diagnosed as having the neocortical type of dementia with LBs (DLB) and variant AD. In this report, we investigated the possible involvement of PS1 deltaT440 mutation in aberrant alpha-synuclein accumulation. We established cell lines that stably express either wild-type (WT) PS1 or the FAD-linked PS1 H163R, E280A, deltaE9, and PS1 deltaT440 mutants and now demonstrate that the expression of the PS1 deltaT440 mutant led to a marked elevation in the ratio of beta-amyloid (Abeta) 42/40 peptides in a conditioned medium. More importantly, we report here that the levels of phosphorylated alpha-synuclein increase in neuronal and non-neuronal cells expressing the PS1 deltaT440 mutant compared with cells that express WT PS1 or the PS1 H163R and E280A variants that are not associated with LB pathology. This finding is consistent with our demonstration of elevated levels of phosphorylated alpha-synuclein in the detergent-resistant fraction prepared from a patient's brain with PS1 deltaT440 mutation. These observations raise the intriguing suggestion that the mechanism(s) by which the PS1 deltaT440 mutant causes DLB and variant AD are by enhancing the phosphorylation of alpha-synuclein and the ratio of Abeta(42/40) peptides, respectively, in the brain.
Events can sometimes appear longer or shorter in duration than other events of equal length. For example, in a repeated presentation of auditory or visual stimuli, an unexpected object of equivalent duration appears to last longer. Illusions of duration distortion beg an important question of time representation: when durations dilate or contract, does time in general slow down or speed up during that moment? In other words, what entailments do duration distortions have with respect to other timing judgments? We here show that when a sound or visual flicker is presented in conjunction with an unexpected visual stimulus, neither the pitch of the sound nor the frequency of the flicker is affected by the apparent duration dilation. This demonstrates that subjective time in general is not slowed; instead, duration judgments can be manipulated with no concurrent impact on other temporal judgments. Like spatial vision, time perception appears to be underpinned by a collaboration of separate neural mechanisms that usually work in concert but are separable. We further show that the duration dilation of an unexpected stimulus is not enhanced by increasing its saliency, suggesting that the effect is more closely related to prediction violation than enhanced attention. Finally, duration distortions induced by violations of progressive number sequences implicate the involvement of high-level predictability, suggesting the involvement of areas higher than primary visual cortex. We suggest that duration distortions can be understood in terms of repetition suppression, in which neural responses to repeated stimuli are diminished.


Subcellular localization guided by IkappaBalpha is crucial for regulation of nuclear factor-kappaB function. Here, we show that p65 Rel homology domain phosphorylation mutants are transported into the nucleus after IkappaBalpha degradation, but as a consequence of lower IkappaBalpha levels their relocation to the cytosol is blocked. We demonstrate that phosphorylation of residues S205, S276, and S281 of p65 is not required for interaction between p65 and IkappaBalpha, but is pivotal for regulating cellular IkappaBalpha levels by positively affecting gene synthesis. Our findings indicate that reduction of phosphorylation leads to nuclear retention of p65, which might be partly responsible for altered transcriptional behavior of p65 serine mutants.

Proteolytic cleavage of amyloid beta-peptide (Abeta) from amyloid precursor protein (APP) is a key event in the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease. Beta-site amyloid precursor protein cleaving enzyme (BACE) cleaves the APP at the N-terminus of Abeta. We investigated whether particular stress conditions modify the expression and activity of BACE, and found that treatment of human neuroblastoma cells with protein synthesis inhibitors induced expression of a novel splice variant of BACE. This unusual transcript, I-127, is produced by usage of an internal splicing donor site in exon 3. The splicing event leads to a premature termination codon, as well as elimination of one of two conserved aspartic protease active sites, a transmembrane domain, and a C-terminal cytoplasmic tail from BACE. Low levels of this mRNA were found in the human brain. When expressed in cells, I-127 had no effect on Abeta secretion and was retained in the endoplasmic reticulum without propeptide removal. It was also unstable with a turnover t(1/2) of approximately 2h; normal BACE had a turnover t(1/2) of approximately 8h. Finally, I-127 was degraded in a proteasome-dependent manner. Thus, I-127 is regulated by both nonsense-mediated mRNA decay (NMD) and proteasome-dependent degradation.
Our previous studies and those of others have strongly suggested that c-Jun N-terminal kinase (JNK) signaling pathway plays a critical role in 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA)-induced dopaminergic neuron injury in the substantia nigra. However, the downstream mechanism that accounts for the proapoptotic actions of JNK in 6-OHDA lesion remains to be investigated in detail. Fas, a member of the tumor necrosis factor receptor family with proapoptotic functions, was reported to be elevated within the striatum and substantia nigra pars compacta (SNc) of Parkinson's disease (PD) patients. In the present study, we examined the changes in the protein level of Fas ligand (FasL) and its interaction with Fas in a rat model of PD. We demonstrate that the expression of FasL and not Fas was increased after 6-OHDA lesion; additionally, the interaction of FasL and Fas was increased due to 6-OHDA lesion. This indicates that the 6-OHDA-induced activation of Fas signaling pathway is mediated by JNK and that FasL may be a promising target in the therapeutic approach for PD patients.
The structural phenotype of neural connections in the auditory brainstem is sculpted by spontaneous and stimulus-induced neural activities during development. However, functional and molecular mechanisms of spontaneous action potentials (SAPs) in the developing cochlea are unknown. Additionally, it is unclear how regenerating hair cells establish their neural ranking in the constellation of neurons in the brainstem. We have demonstrated that a transient Ca(2+) current produced by the Ca(v)3.1 channel is expressed early in development to initiate spontaneous Ca(2+) spikes. Ca(v)1.3 currents, typical of mature hair cells, appeared later in development. Moreover, there is a surprising disappearance of the Ca(v)3.1 current that coincides with the attenuation of the transient Ca(2+) current as the electrical properties of hair cells transition to the mature phenotype. Remarkably, this process is recapitulated during hair-cell regeneration, suggesting that the transient expression of Ca(v)3.1 and the ensuing SAPs are signatures of hair cell development and regeneration.
An essential step in understanding visual processing is to characterize the neuronal receptive fields (RFs) at each stage of the visual pathway. However, RF characterization beyond simple cells in the primary visual cortex (V1) remains a major challenge. Recent application of spike-triggered covariance (STC) analysis has greatly facilitated characterization of complex cell RFs in anesthetized animals. Here we apply STC to RF characterization in awake monkey V1. We found up to nine subunits for each cell, including one or two dominant excitatory subunits as described by the standard model, along with additional excitatory and suppressive subunits with weaker contributions. Compared with the dominant subunits, the nondominant excitatory subunits prefer similar orientations and spatial frequencies but have larger spatial envelopes. They contribute to response invariance to small changes in stimulus orientation, position, and spatial frequency. In contrast, the suppressive subunits are tuned to orientations 45 degrees -90 degrees different from the excitatory subunits, which may underlie cross-orientation suppression. Together, the excitatory and suppressive subunits form a compact description of RFs in awake monkey V1, allowing prediction of the responses to arbitrary visual stimuli.

Epstein-Barr virus (EBV), a ubiquitous B-lymphotropic herpesvirus, has been associated with multiple sclerosis (MS), an inflammatory disease of the central nervous system (CNS), but direct proof of its involvement in the disease is still missing. To test the idea that MS might result from perturbed EBV infection in the CNS, we investigated expression of EBV markers in postmortem brain tissue from MS cases with different clinical courses. Contrary to previous studies, we found evidence of EBV infection in a substantial proportion of brain-infiltrating B cells and plasma cells in nearly 100% of the MS cases examined (21 of 22), but not in other inflammatory neurological diseases. Ectopic B cell follicles forming in the cerebral meninges of some cases with secondary progressive MS were identified as major sites of EBV persistence. Expression of viral latent proteins was regularly observed in MS brains, whereas viral reactivation appeared restricted to ectopic B cell follicles and acute lesions. Activation of CD8+ T cells with signs of cytotoxicity toward plasma cells was also noted at sites of major accumulations of EBV-infected cells. Whether homing of EBV-infected B cells to the CNS is a primary event in MS development or the consequence of a still unknown disease-related process, we interpret these findings as evidence that EBV persistence and reactivation in the CNS play an important role in MS immunopathology.

Although we know that the process of saccade target selection is reflected in the activity of sensory-motor neurons within saccade executive centers, the description of this process at the neural level has yet to fully account for all selection outcomes. The current study sought to determine how neuronal activity in the intermediate layers of the superior colliculus (SC) determines correct saccade target selection by examining the activity of visuomovement neurons during both correct and error trials of monkeys performing a relatively difficult visual conjunction search task. We found that a stimulus presented in a neuron's response field, but not foveated, was associated with greater activity if it was the search target instead of a distractor, indicating that SC neurons could represent stimulus identity. Nevertheless, activity was greater when a saccade was made to a stimulus than when it was not, further implicating these neurons in selecting the saccade goal. Together with the related observation that, when the target fell in their response fields, SC neurons discharged significantly more if the monkey correctly selected it instead of a distractor, these results suggest that visual stimuli are selected when these neurons reach a critical activation level. Our findings show that the outcome of all visual search trials, regardless of the stimulus being selected, is predicted by SC neuronal activity.
Acetylcholine may help set the dynamics within neural systems to facilitate the learning of new information. Neural models have shown that if new information is encoded at the same time as retrieval of existing information that is already stored, the memories will interfere with each other. Structures such as the hippocampus have a distinct laminar organization of inputs that allows this hypothesis to be tested. In region CA1 of the rat (Sprague Dawley) hippocampus, the cholinergic agonist carbachol (CCh) suppresses transmission in stratum radiatum (SR), at synapses of the Schaffer collateral projection from CA3, while having lesser effects in stratum lacunosum-moleculare (SLM), the perforant path projection from entorhinal cortex (Hasselmo and Schnell, 1994). The current research extends support of this selectivity by demonstrating laminar effects in region CA3. CCh caused significantly greater suppression in SR than in SLM at low concentrations, while the difference in suppression was not significant at higher concentrations. Differences in paired-pulse facilitation suggest presynaptic inhibition substantially contributes to the suppression and is highly concentration and stratum dependent. This selective suppression of the recurrent excitation would be appropriate to set CA3 dynamics to prevent runaway modification of the synapses of excitatory recurrent collaterals by reducing the influence of previously stored associations and allowing incoming information from the perforant path to have a predominant influence on neural activity.

Controversy surrounds proper classification of neurodegeneration occurring acutely following neonatal hypoxia-ischemia (HI). By ultrastructural classification, in the first 24 h after neonatal hypoxia-ischemia in the 7-day-old (p7) rat, the majority of striatal cells die having both apoptotic and necrotic features. There is formation of a functional apoptosome, and activation of caspases-9 and -3 occurring simultaneously with loss of structurally intact mitochondria to 34.7+/-25% and loss of mitochondrial cytochrome c oxidase activity to 34.7+/-12.7% of control levels by 3 h after hypoxia-ischemia. There is also loss of the mitochondrial motor protein, kinesin. This combination of activation of apoptosis pathways simultaneous with significant mitochondrial dysfunction may cause incomplete packaging of nuclear and cytoplasmic contents and a hybrid of necrotic and apoptotic features. Evidence for an intermediate biochemistry of cell death including expression of the 17 kDa isoform of caspase-3 in dying neurons lacking a classic apoptotic morphology and degradation of the neuronal cytoskeletal protein spectrin by caspase-3 and calcium-activated calpains yielding 120 kDa and 145/150 kDa fragments, respectively, is also found. In summary, neonatal hypoxia-ischemia triggers apoptotic cascades, and simultaneously causes mitochondrial structural and functional failure. The presence of a &quot;continuum&quot; phenotype of cell death that varies on a cell-by-cell basis suggests that the phenotype of cell death is dependent on the energy available to drive the apoptotic pathways to completion.
Methamphetamine produces locomotor activation and typical stereotyped motor patterns, which are commonly related with increased catecholamine activity within the basal ganglia, including the dorsal and ventral striatum. Since the cerebellum is critical for movement control, and for learning of motor patterns, we hypothesized that cerebellar catecholamines might be a target of methamphetamine. To test this experimental hypothesis we injected methamphetamine into C57 Black mice at the doses of 5 mg/kg two or three times, 2 h apart. This dosing regimen is known to be toxic for striatal dopamine terminals. However, we found that in the cerebellum, methamphetamine increased the expression of the primary transcript of the tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) gene, followed by an increased expression of the TH protein. Increased TH was localized within Purkinje cells, where methamphetamine increased the number of TH-immunogold particles, and produced a change in the distribution of the enzyme by increasing the cytoplasmic percentage. Increased TH expression was accompanied by a slight increase in noradrenaline content. This effect was highly site-specific for the cortex of posterior vermal lobules, while only slight effects were detectable in the hemispheres. The present data indicate that the cerebellum does represent a target of methamphetamine, which produces specific and fine alterations of the catecholamine system involving synthesis, amount, and compartmentalization of TH as well as increased noradrenaline levels. This may be relevant for motor alterations induced by methamphetamine. In line with this, inherited cerebellar movement disorders in various animal species including humans are associated with increased TH immunoreactivity within intrinsic neurons of the same lobules of the cerebellar cortex.
The neural cell adhesion molecule (NCAM) plays a pivotal role in neural development, regeneration, synaptic plasticity, and memory processes. P2 is a 12-amino-acid peptide derived from the second immunoglobulin-like (Ig) module of NCAM mediating cis-homophilic interactions between NCAM molecules present on the same cell. P2 is a potent NCAM agonist, capable of promoting neuronal differentiation and survival in vitro. The aim of this study was to assess the effect of P2 on learning and memory. Rats treated with P2 intracerebroventricularly (1 h prior to test) performed significantly better than controls in the reinforced T-maze, a test of spatial working memory. Further, rats treated with P2 exhibited decreased anxiety-like behavior while learning the T-maze task. In the social recognition test, both intracerebroventricular (1 h prior to test) and systemic (1 and 24 h prior to test) P2 treatment enhanced short-term social memory and counteracted (administration 24 h prior test) scopolamine-induced social memory impairment. In contrast, P2 (1 h prior to test) did not significantly improve long-term (24 h) retention of social memory, nor did it have any significant effects on long-term memory evaluated by the Morris water maze (administration between 2 days before training and 5.5 h posttraining). In the open field test, P2 (1 h prior to test) decreased general locomotion and rearing, but did not influence any other anxiety-related behaviors, indicating only a minimal influence on baseline anxiety levels. Taken together, these data indicate that in vivo P2 enhances short-term memory and protects against the amnestic effects of scopolamine, while modulating emotional behavior in a learning or novelty-related task.
Repetition of visually common objects was examined in relation to prior intentional learning and memory status using a delayed match-to-sample task in humans. Both response time and two temporally separate event-related potential (ERP) components indexed repetition. The early repetition effect ( approximately 200-550 ms) evoked more ERP responses for repeated visual objects, and was diminished by prior intentional learning (old/new) or being maintained in working memory (targets/distracters). In contrast, the late repetition effect (after approximately 550 ms) evoked reduced ERP activation for repeated items, and was not affected by prior learning or working memory status. Our source localization results indicate that the late and posterior repetition effect in visual cortex is consistent with repetition suppression results reported in monkey physiology and human fMRI studies. Meanwhile, the early and anterior repetition effect, in temporal pole and frontal cortices, is modulated by explicit memory mechanisms.
(2S)-1-(4-Amino-2,3,5-trimethylphenoxy)-3-{4-[4-(4-fluorobenzyl) phenyl]-1-piperazinyl}-2-propanol dimethanesulfonate (SUN N8075) is a novel antioxidant with neuroprotective properties. We examined whether SUN N8075 inhibited the neuronal damage resulting from permanent focal cerebral ischemia, and examined its neuroprotective properties in vivo and in vitro mechanism. Focal cerebral ischemia was induced by permanent middle cerebral artery occlusion in mice, and the resulting infarction, brain swelling, and neurological deficits were evaluated after 24 h or 72 h. Brain damage was assessed histochemically using terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase-mediated dUTP nick end-labeling (TUNEL) staining and antibody recognizing 4-hydroxynonenal histidine adduct (4-HNE). In the in vitro study, we examined the effects of SUN N8075 on 1) lipid peroxidation in mouse brain homogenates and 2) cell viability and caspase-3 protease activity under a hypoxic insult or FeSO(4) in rat cultured cerebrocortical neurons. SUN N8075 administered either 10 min before or at 1 h after the occlusion reduced both infarction size and neurological deficits. SUN N8075 reduced brain swelling when administered 10 min before, 1 h, or 3 h after occlusion. Furthermore, only pretreatment (administered 10 min before) decreased infarct volume and brain swelling at 72 h after middle cerebral artery occlusion. SUN N8075 reduced the number of TUNEL-positive cells and decreased the level of oxidative damage, as assessed by immunopositive staining to 4-HNE. SUN N8075 inhibited lipid peroxidation, leakage of lactate dehydrogenase, caspase-3 activation induced by in vitro hypoxia, and the neuronal damage induced by in vitro FeSO(4) exposure. These findings indicate that SUN N8075 has neuroprotective effects against acute ischemic neuronal damage in mice and may prove promising as a therapeutic drug for stroke.
Apoptosis, a predominant cause of neuronal death after stroke, can be executed in a caspase-dependent or apoptosis inducing factor (AIF)-dependent manner. Herpes simplex virus (HSV) vectors expressing caspase inhibitors p35 and crmA have been shown to be neuroprotective against various excitotoxic insults. Here we further evaluated the possible neuroprotective role of p35 and crmA in a rat stroke model. Overexpression of p35, but not crmA, significantly increased neuronal survival. Results of double immunofluorescence staining indicate that compared with neurons infected with crmA or control vectors, p35-infected neurons had less active caspase-3 expression, cytosolic cytochrome c and nuclear AIF translocation.
We previously suggested that orientation-tuned surround suppression of responses of cells in the primary visual cortex (V1) is primarily caused by a decrease in geniculocortical input for the cell [Ozeki H, Sadakane O, Akasaki T, Naito T, Shimegi S, Sato H (2004) Relationship between excitation and inhibition underlying size tuning and contextual response modulation in the cat primary visual cortex. J Neurosci 24:1428-1438]. To further test this hypothesis, we compared the strength of orientation and spatial phase selectivity of surround suppression, and the spatial extent of the extraclassical receptive field (ECRF) between the lateral geniculate nucleus (LGN) and V1 neurons of anesthetized cats. Extraclassical surround suppression in the LGN was well tuned to orientation-contrast and relative spatial phase between the classical receptive field (CRF) and ECRF stimuli. Significant orientation-tuned surround suppression was observed in 72.6% of the LGN neurons and the 66.7% of the V1 neurons tested. The degree of orientation selectivity of ECRF in LGN was comparable to that in V1; however, the strength of the relative spatial phase selectivity of ECRF in LGN was higher than that previously reported for V1 [Akasaki T, Sato H, Yoshimura Y, Ozeki H, Shimegi S (2002) Suppressive effects of receptive field surround on neuronal activity in the cat primary visual cortex. Neurosci Res 43:207-220; DeAngelis GC, Freeman RD, Ohzawa I (1994) Length and width tuning of neurons in the cat's primary visual cortex. J Neurophysiol 71:347-374]. In 70% of the LGN neurons that exhibited significant orientation-tuned extraclassical surround suppression, the effective orientation of the suppression varied according to a change in the orientation of CRF stimulus, while the remaining 30% exhibited a fixed preferred orientation of the suppression regardless of the orientation of the CRF grating. These results suggest that the basic properties of surround suppression, such as orientation and spatial phase tuning, already exist in cat LGN and that a decrease of surround suppression in excitatory inputs from LGN by surround suppression is the primary cause of surround suppression in V1. Corticogeniculate feedback may further elaborate the properties of surround suppression in LGN.
Previous studies indicated that stress levels of glucocorticoid hormones (cortisol in humans, and corticosterone in rodents) induce impairment of long-term memory retrieval, but the underlying mechanisms (genomic or nongenomic) are not clear. To clarify this issue, we investigated the involvement of brain corticosteroid receptors and protein synthesis in the corticosterone-induced impairment of memory retrieval. Young rats were trained in the water maze task with six trials per day for 6 consecutive days. Retention of the spatial training was assessed 24 h after the last training session with a 60-s probe trial. Experiments included intraventricular injections of anisomycin, a specific protein synthesis inhibitor or specific antagonists for both types of corticocosteroid receptors (mineralocorticoid receptor, MR, and glucocorticoids receptor, GR) before corticosterone administration shortly before retention testing. The results showed that administration of anisomycin did not change the corticosterone response. Administration of the MR, but not GR, antagonist blocked the corticosterone-induced response dose dependently. These findings provide evidence for the view that glucocorticoids impair memory retrieval through nongenomic mechanisms involving an interaction with central MRs.
Large conductance (BK-type) calcium-activated potassium channels utilize alternative splicing and association with accessory beta subunits to tailor BK channel properties to diverse cell types. Two important modulators of BK channel gating are the neuronal-specific beta4 accessory subunit (beta4) and alternative splicing at the stress axis hormone-regulated exon (STREX). Individually, these modulators affect the gating properties of the BK channel as well as its response to phosphorylation. In this study, the combined functional consequences of STREX and the mouse beta4 subunit on mouse BK channel biophysical properties were investigated in transfected HEK 293 cells. Surprisingly, we found that the combined effects of STREX and beta4 are non-additive and even opposite for some properties. At high calcium, beta4 and the STREX individually share properties that promote BK channel opening via slowing of deactivation. However, the combined effects are a speeding of deactivation and a decreased open probability. beta4 also inhibits BK channel opening by a slowing of activation. This effect occurs across calcium concentrations in the absence of STREX, but predominates only at low calcium for STREX containing channels. BK channel responses to phosphorylation status are also altered by the combination of the beta4 subunit and STREX. beta4/STREX channels show a slowing of activation kinetics following dephosphorylation whereas beta4 channels lacking STREX do not. In contrast, beta4 confers a speeding of activation in response to cyclic AMP-dependent phosphorylation in channels lacking STREX, but not in channels containing STREX. These results indicate that the combination of the beta4 subunit and STREX confers non-additive and unique properties to BK channels. Analysis of expression in brain slices suggests that STREX and beta4 mRNA overlap expression in the dentate gyrus of the hippocampus and the cerebellar Purkinje cells, suggesting that these unique properties of BK channels may underlie BK channel gating in these cells.
High levels of glutamate can be toxic to retinal ganglion cells (RGCs). This study investigated the relationship between the N-methyl-d-aspartate receptor 1 (NR) and RGC death in a rat model of chronic ocular hypertension (COHT). COHT was induced in one eye of each rat by episcleral vein cauterization. Retinal protein expression was evaluated at 1, 3, 5 and 9 weeks after cauterization. Quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction and Western blot analysis showed that NR1 expression was significantly increased in cauterized retinae. NR1 immunoreactivity was observed in the inner nuclear layer (INL) and ganglion cell layer (GCL) in the retina of rats with COHT. RGC density was evaluated after retrograde labeling with fluoro-gold (FG) and 4-di-10-ASP (DiA). A significant decrease in RGC density was observed in ocular hypertensive eyes, and NR1 expression in the GCL suggested an important role of NR1 in the death of RGCs. Memantine (10 mg/kg), an N-methyl-d-aspartate receptor antagonist, was administered orally once daily for up to 5 weeks, while rats in the control group received vehicle phosphate-buffered saline only. Treatment with memantine resulted in a significant reduction in RGC loss and NR1 expression in the eyes of rats COHT. These findings suggest that excessive expression of NR1 is involved in RGC death in glaucoma.
Vagal efferent axons from the nucleus ambiguus (NA) innervate ganglionated plexuses in the dorsal surface of cardiac atria, which in turn, may have different functional roles in cardiac regulation. However, the morphology and topography of vagal efferent projections to these ganglionated plexuses in rats and mice have not been well delineated. In the present study, we injected the tracer 1,1'-dioctadecyl-3,3,3',3' tetramethylindocarbocyanine methanesulfonate (DiI) into the left NA to label vagal efferent axons and terminals in cardiac ganglia and administered Fluoro-Gold (FG) i.p. to stain cardiac ganglia. Then, we used confocal microscopy and a Neurolucida 3-D Digitization System to qualitatively and quantitatively examine the distribution and structure of cardiac ganglia, and NA efferent projections to cardiac ganglia in the whole-mounts of Sprague-Dawley (SD) rats and FVB mice. Our observations were: 1) Cardiac ganglia of different shapes and sizes were distributed in the sinoatrial (SA) node, atrioventricular (AV) node, and lower pulmonary vein (LPV) regions on the dorsal surface of the atria. In each region, several ganglia formed a ganglionated plexus. The plexuses at different locations were interconnected by nerves. 2) Vagal efferent fibers ramified within cardiac ganglia, formed a complex network of axons, and innervated cardiac ganglia with very dense basket endings around individual cardiac principal neurons (PNs). 3) The percent of the PNs in cardiac ganglia which were innervated by DiI-labeled axons was 54.3+/-3.2% in mice vs. 53.2+/-3.2% in rats (P&gt;0.10). 4) The density of axonal putative-synaptic varicosities on the surface of PNs was 0.15+/-0.02/microm(2) in mice vs. 0.16+/-0.02/microm(2) in rats (P&gt;0.10). Thus, the distributions of cardiac ganglia and vagal efferent projections to cardiac ganglia in mice and rats were quite similar both qualitatively and quantitatively. Our study provides the structural foundation for future investigation of functional differentiation of ganglionated plexuses and the brain-heart circuitry in rodent models of human disease.
Dopamine is a catecholaminergic neuromodulatory transmitter that acts through five molecularly-distinct G protein-coupled receptor subtypes (D(1)-D(5)). In the mammalian spinal cord, dopaminergic axon collaterals arise predominantly from the A11 region of the dorsoposterior hypothalamus and project diffusely throughout the spinal neuraxis. Dopaminergic modulatory actions are implicated in sensory, motor and autonomic functions in the spinal cord but the expression properties of the different dopamine receptors in the spinal cord remain incomplete. Here we determined the presence and the regional distribution of all dopamine receptor subtypes in mouse spinal cord cells by means of quantitative real time polymerase chain reaction (PCR) and digoxigenin-label in situ hybridization. Real-time PCR demonstrated that all dopamine receptors are expressed in the spinal cord with strongly dominant D(2) receptor expression, including in motoneurons and in the sensory encoding superficial dorsal horn (SDH). Laser capture microdissection (LCM) corroborated the predominance of D(2) receptor expression in SDH and motoneurons. In situ hybridization of lumbar cord revealed that expression for all dopamine receptors was largely in the gray matter, including motoneurons, and distributed diffusely in labeled cell subpopulations in most or all laminae. The highest incidence of cellular labeling was observed for D(2) and D(5) receptors, while the incidence of D(1) and D(3) receptor expression was least. We conclude that the expression and extensive postsynaptic distribution of all known dopamine receptors in spinal cord correspond well with the broad descending dopaminergic projection territory supporting a widespread dopaminergic control over spinal neuronal systems. The dominant expression of D(2) receptors suggests a leading role for these receptors in dopaminergic actions on postsynaptic spinal neurons.

The monoclonal antibody Cat-301 identifies perineuronal nets around specific neuronal types, including those in the cerebellum. This report finds in adult Macaca monkey that basket cells in the deep molecular layer; granule cell layer (GCL) interneurons including Lugaro cells; large neurons in the foliar white matter (WM); and deep cerebellar nuclei (DCN) neurons contain subsets of Cat-301 positive (+) cells. Most Cat-301+ GCL interneurons are glycine+ and all are densely innervated by a meshwork of calbindin+/glutamic acid decarboxylase+ Purkinje cell collaterals and their synapses. DCN and WM Cat-301+ neurons also receive a similar but less dense innervation. Due to the heavy labeling of adjacent Purkinje cell dendrites, the innervation of Cat-301+ basket cells was less certain. These findings suggest that several complex feedback circuits from Purkinje cell to cerebellar interneurons exist in primate cerebellum whose function needs to be investigated. Cat-301 labeling begins postnatally in WM and DCN, but remains sparse until at least 3 months of age. Because the appearance of perineuronal nets is associated with maturation of synaptic circuits, this suggests that the Purkinje cell feedback circuits develop for some time after birth.
The present study aimed to clarify whether a kinesthetic illusion arises in our experimental condition (visual stimulus) and whether corticomotor excitability changes in parallel with the kinesthetic illusion. The visual stimulus was a movie in which someone else's limb was being moved. The computer screen showing the movie was installed at an appropriate portion of the subject's forearm, so that the performer's hand appeared as if it were the subject's hand (illusion). The experience of kinesthetic illusion under this condition was verified by interview using a visual analog scale. Healthy male subjects participated in this experiment. Transcranial magnetic stimulation was applied to induce motor-evoked potential (MEP) from the first dorsal interosseous and abductor digiti minimi muscle. Each subject was instructed to watch the same computer display shown as in the illusion, with his own stationary hand in full view (non-illusion) and to watch a display of non-biological movement (moving text) (sham) as the control conditions. The present results showed significant facilitation of MEP under the illusion compared with the control conditions for the index finger abducting in the movie, although not for adducting. MEP in the abductor digiti minimi showed no change during either abduction or adduction of the little finger. The present study demonstrated that an illusion of self-motion can be created by a video of a moving abstract index finger, and inputs to the corticomotor pathways during the self-motion illusion facilitated the corticomotor excitability. The excitatory effect of the illusion depended on the movement direction of the index finger.
The aim of the present study is to investigate the changes in hippocampal synapses and their relation with learning-memory abilities at different ages, and evaluate the effects of 2,3,5,4'-tetrahydroxystilbene-2-O-beta-d-glucoside (TSG), which is one of the major components of a traditional Chinese herb Polygonum multiflorum, on brain aging. Sprague-Dawley rats at the age of 1, 3, 6, 18 and 24 months were used. TSG at doses of 30 and 60 mg/kg/day was intragastrically administered to 21-month-old rats for 3 months, respectively. Learning-memory abilities were determined by Morris water maze and passageway water maze tests. The ultrastructure of synapses in the hippocampal CA1 region was observed by electronic microscopy. The expression of synaptophysin (SYP) in whole hippocampus was measured by using immunohistochemistry. Compared with rats at 6 months of age, both the 1-month-old rats and 24-month-old rats showed longer escape latency and swimming distance in the Morris water maze test, while more errors were detected in the passageway water maze test, with a smaller number of synapses and synaptic vesicles and less expression of SYP in the hippocampus. Treatment with high-dose TSG in rats at 24 months of age had significant improvement in the learning-memory abilities in the water maze tests associated with an increase in the number of synapses and synaptic vesicles, and an elevation of expression of SYP in the hippocampus. In conclusion, hippocampal synapses count and synaptophysin expression decreased in aged rats, which may be one of the mechanisms involved in learning-memory deficit. TSG reversed the above changes in aged rats, suggesting that TSG may be beneficial for the treatment of Alzheimer disease or cognitive impairment in old people.
Ischemic brain injury is one of the leading causes of epilepsy in the elderly, and there are currently no adult rodent models of global ischemia, unilateral hemispheric ischemia, or focal ischemia that report the occurrence of spontaneous motor seizures following ischemic brain injury. The rodent hypoxic-ischemic (H-I) model of brain injury in adult rats is a model of unilateral hemispheric ischemic injury. Recent studies have shown that an H-I injury in perinatal rats causes hippocampal mossy fiber sprouting and epilepsy. These experiments aimed to test the hypothesis that a unilateral H-I injury leading to severe neuronal loss in young-adult rats also causes mossy fiber sprouting and spontaneous motor seizures many months after the injury, and that the mossy fiber sprouting induced by the H-I injury forms new functional recurrent excitatory synapses. The right common carotid artery of 30-day old rats was permanently ligated, and the rats were placed into a chamber with 8% oxygen for 30 min. A quantitative stereologic analysis revealed that the ipsilateral hippocampus had significant hilar and CA1 pyramidal neuronal loss compared with the contralateral and sham-control hippocampi. The septal region from the ipsilateral and contralateral hippocampus had small but significantly increased amounts of Timm staining in the inner molecular layer compared with the sham-control hippocampi. Three of 20 lesioned animals (15%) were observed to have at least one spontaneous motor seizure 6-12 months after treatment. Approximately 50% of the ipsilateral and contralateral hippocampal slices displayed abnormal electrophysiological responses in the dentate gyrus, manifest as all-or-none bursts to hilar stimulation. This study suggests that H-I injury is associated with synaptic reorganization in the lesioned region of the hippocampus, and that new recurrent excitatory circuits can predispose the hippocampus to abnormal electrophysiological activity and spontaneous motor seizures.
Glutamatergic synaptic transmission is a dynamic process determined by the amount of glutamate released by presynaptic sites, the clearance of glutamate in the synaptic cleft, and the properties of postsynaptic glutamate receptors. Clearance of glutamate in the synaptic cleft depends on passive diffusion and active uptake by glutamate transporters. In this study, we examined the role of glial glutamate transporter 1 (GLT-1) in spinal sensory processing. Excitatory postsynaptic currents (EPSCs) of substantia gelatinosa neurons recorded from spinal slices of young adult rats were analyzed before and after GLT-1 was pharmacologically blocked by dihydrokainic acid. Inhibition of GLT-1 prolonged the EPSC duration and the EPSC decay phase. The EPSC amplitudes were increased in neurons with weak synaptic input but decreased in neurons with strong synaptic input upon inhibition of GLT-1. We suggest that presynaptic inhibition, desensitization of postsynaptic AMPA receptors, and glutamate &quot;spillover&quot; contributed to the kinetic change of EPSCs induced by the blockade of GLT-1. Thus, GLT-1 is a key component in maintaining the spatial and temporal coding in signal transmission at the glutamatergic synapse in substantia gelatinosa neurons.
Despite the critical roles of the amyloid precursor protein (APP) in Alzheimer's disease pathogenesis, its physiological function remains poorly established. Our previous studies implicated a structural and functional activity of the APP family of proteins in the developing neuromuscular junction (NMJ). Here we performed comprehensive analyses of neurotransmission in mature neuromuscular synapse of APP deficient mice. We found that APP deletion led to reduced paired-pulse facilitation and increased depression of synaptic transmission with repetitive stimulation. Readily releasable pool size and total releasable vesicles were not affected, but probability of release was significantly increased. Strikingly, the amount of asynchronous release, a measure sensitive to presynaptic calcium concentration, was dramatically increased, and pharmacological studies revealed that it was attributed to aberrant activation of N- and L-type Ca(2+) channels. We propose that APP modulates synaptic transmission at the NMJ by ensuring proper Ca(2+) channel function.
Cannabis use may increase the risk of developing schizophrenia by precipitating the disorder in genetically vulnerable individuals. Neuregulin 1 (NRG1) is a schizophrenia susceptibility gene and mutant mice heterozygous for the transmembrane domain of this gene (Nrg1 HET mice) exhibit a schizophrenia-related phenotype. We have recently shown that Nrg1 HET mice are more sensitive to the behavioral effects of the main psychoactive constituent of cannabis, Delta(9)-tetrahydrocannabinol (THC). In the present study, we examined the effects of THC (10 mg/kg i.p.) on neuronal activity in Nrg1 HET mice and wild type-like (WT) mice using c-Fos immunohistochemistry. In the lateral septum, THC selectively increased c-Fos expression in Nrg1 HET mice with no corresponding effect being observed in WT mice. In addition, THC promoted a greater increase in c-Fos expression in Nrg1 HET mice than WT mice in the central nucleus of the amygdala, the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis and the paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus. Consistent with Nrg1 HET mice exhibiting a schizophrenia-related phenotype, these mice expressed greater drug-free levels of c-Fos in two regions thought to be involved in schizophrenia, the shell of the nucleus accumbens and the lateral septum. Interestingly, the effects of genotype on c-Fos expression, drug-free or following THC exposure, were only observed when animals experienced behavioral testing prior to perfusion. This suggests an interaction with stress was necessary for the promotion of these effects. These data provide neurobiological correlates for the enhanced behavioral sensitivity of Nrg1 HET mice to THC and reinforce the existence of cannabinoid-neuregulin 1 interactions in the CNS. This research may enhance our understanding of how genetic factors increase individual vulnerability to schizophrenia and cannabis-induced psychosis.
The present experiments were based on the rat resident-intruder paradigm and aimed at better understanding the long-term conditioning properties of this social stress model. Intruders were exposed to aggressive conspecifics residents. During 3 daily encounters, intruders were either defeated or threatened by residents, providing the defeated-threatened (DT) and threatened-threatened (TT) groups respectively, or exposed to a novel empty cage (EC). The effect of such exposures was assessed in 3 separate experiments 8, 14, or 21 days following the last session on both behavior and hypothalamus-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis parameters. A specific and persistent behavioral conditioning due to social defeat but also to the sole social threat experience was observed as defensive behaviors and anxiety-like behaviors were observed respectively in DT and TT rats, highlighting a lack of habituation for the conditioning properties of this social stressor. On the other hand, at the earlier time points examined a less specific activation of the HPA axis parameters was found, starting to show habituation at day 21 in EC but not in DT or TT rats. These data give further support to the lasting effects of this social stress model, bestowing a special emphasis upon the impact of its psychological component and upon the relevance of its development and maintenance over time.
Regulation of feeding behavior and energy balance are among the central effects of insulin. For example, intracerebroventricular administration of insulin decreases food intake and body weight, whereas antisense oligodeoxynucleotide downregulation of insulin receptors (IRs) produces hyperphagia. To further examine the role of IRs in the central actions of insulin, we designed an IR antisense lentiviral vector (LV-IRAS) and injected this vector into the third ventricle to selectively decrease IR expression in the rat hypothalamus. Three weeks after LV-IRAS administration, the expression of IRs in the hypothalamus was significantly decreased, whereas no changes were observed in hippocampal IR levels. LV-IRAS administration decreased insulin-stimulated phosphorylation of hypothalamic IRs and translocation of the insulin-sensitive glucose transporter GLUT4 in the hypothalamus; no changes in IR signaling were observed in the hippocampus of LV-IRAS-treated rats. Lentivirus-mediated downregulation of IR expression and signaling produced significant increases in body weight, as well as increases in fat mass that were selective for the subcutaneous compartment. Conversely, lean muscle mass and water mass were not affected in LV-IRAS-treated rats compared to rats treated with control virus. Changes in peripheral adiposity were associated with increases in basal hypothalamic leptin signaling in the absence of changes in leptin receptor expression in LV-IRAS rats. Collectively, these data illustrate the important functional relationships between hypothalamic insulin and leptin signaling in the regulation of body composition and provide insight into the mechanisms through which decreases in IR expression and signaling dysregulates leptin activity, thereby promoting increases in peripheral adiposity.
Static high magnetic fields (MFs) from 7 T to 9 T can elicit behavioral responses in rodents such as suppression of rearing, locomotor circling, and acquisition of a conditioned taste aversion (CTA). MF exposure also induces c-Fos expression in the visceral and vestibular nuclei of the brainstem, suggesting the stimulation of some sensory pathways. It is not clear, however, if the effects of the MF are caused by exposure to the uniform maximal field at the center of the magnet, or by exposure to the steep field gradients along the bore of the magnet during the rat's placement. In addition, the site of action within the rat is unknown. In an attempt to limit MF exposure to rostral or caudal portions of the rats' body, we exposed male and female rats at different positions within the bore of a 14.1-T superconducting magnet ranging from 2 cm (1.6 T at the head) to 155 cm (0.05 T at the head), with the center of the bore at 65 cm (14.1 T across the whole body). This approach also allowed us to expose rats to the maximal field strength (14.1 T) vs. the maximal field gradients (54 T/m). To assess both immediate and delayed behavioral effects, locomotor and CTA responses were recorded. A small but significant CTA was seen after exposure of the head to the lowest MF tested (0.05 T at 155 cm). Graded effects were seen, however, with greater circling and CTA acquisition as the MF strength increased at the rostral end of the rat. This suggests a cephalic site of action. Furthermore, maximal circling and CTA were induced after exposure to the uniform center field, and not after exposure to high field gradients on either side of the center. This suggests that the behavioral responses seen after MF exposure are a consequence of the uniform static field at the center of the magnet, and are not caused by passage through, or exposure to, the vertical field gradients. Female rats responded similarly to male rats, although magnet-induced CTA appeared resistant to extinction in female rats.
Deep brain stimulation (DBS) of the subthalamic nucleus markedly improves the motor symptoms of Parkinson's disease, but causes cognitive side effects such as impulsivity. We showed that DBS selectively interferes with the normal ability to slow down when faced with decision conflict. While on DBS, patients actually sped up their decisions under high-conflict conditions. This form of impulsivity was not affected by dopaminergic medication status. Instead, medication impaired patients' ability to learn from negative decision outcomes. These findings implicate independent mechanisms leading to impulsivity in treated Parkinson's patients and were predicted by a single neurocomputational model of the basal ganglia.
Dopaminergic functional recovery following controlled release of dopamine from biodegradable polymer matrices implanted in the lesioned striatum was investigated in a hemiparkinsonian animal model. Significant dopamine depletion in the striatum ipsilateral to the side of infusion was observed in animals unilaterally infused with 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA) in the substatia nigra. These animals displayed apomorphine-induced contralateral rotational behavior, when examined on the 16th day. Implantation of a controlled release delivery system (hydrogel obtained by mixing dextran dialdehyde cross-linked with gelatin) containing dopamine in the denervated striatum on the 1st day or the 18th day significantly abolished the apomorphine-induced contralateral rotational behavior in these animals. The recovery was visible for about 17 days, thereafter the behavioral bias reappeared. The present results indicate that dopamine released from the polymer matrices alleviates behavioral bias in experimental parkinsonism, implying use of such technologies as an alternative method for the treatment of Parkinson's disease. This approach is useful in reducing the oral dose of drugs that are with severe systemic effects, and that develop tolerance.
This study investigates behavioural lateralization in sheep and lambs of different ages. A flock was tested in a task in which the animals were facing an obstacle and should avoid it on either the right or left side to rejoin flock-mates (adult sheep) or their mothers (lambs). A bias for avoiding the obstacle on the right side was observed, with lambs apparently being more lateralized than sheep. This right bias was tentatively associated with the left-hemifield laterality in familiar faces recognition which has been documented in this species. Differences between adult sheep and lambs were likely to be due to differences in social reinstatement motivation elicited by different stimuli (flock-mates or mothers) at different ages. Preferential use of the forelegs to step on a wood-board and direction of jaw movement during rumination was also tested in adult animals. No population bias nor individual-level lateralization was observed for use of the forelegs. At the same time, however, there was a large number of animals showing individual-level lateralization for the direction of jaw movement during rumination even though there was no population bias. These findings highlight that within the same species individual- and population-level lateralization can be observed in different tasks. Moreover, the results fit the general hypothesis that population-level asymmetries are more likely to occur in tasks that require social coordination among behaviourally asymmetric individuals.
Parkinson's disease (PD) is the most common neurodegenerative movement disorder. Although a subject of intense research, the etiology of PD remains poorly understood. Recently, several lines of evidence have implicated an intimate link between aberrations in the ubiquitin proteasome system (UPS) and PD pathogenesis. Derangements of the UPS, which normally functions as a type of protein degradation machinery, lead to alterations in protein homeostasis that could conceivably promote the toxic accumulation of proteins detrimental to neuronal survival. Not surprisingly, various cellular and animal models of PD that are based on direct disruption of UPS function reproduce the most prominent features of PD. Although persuasive, new developments in the past few years have in fact raised serious questions about the link between the UPS and PD. Here I review current thoughts and controversies about their relationship and discuss whether strategies aimed at mitigating UPS dysfunction could represent rational ways to intervene in the disease. Publication history: Republished from Current BioData's Targeted Proteins database (TPdb; http://www.targetedproteinsdb.com).
Melanopsin confers photosensitivity to a subset of retinal ganglion cells and is responsible for many non-image-forming tasks, like the detection of light for circadian entrainment. Recently, two melanopsin genes, Opn4m and Opn4x, were described in non-mammalian vertebrates. However, only one form, Opn4m, has been described in the mammals, although studies to date have been limited to the placentals and have not included the marsupials. We report here the isolation and characterization of an Opn4 gene from an Australian marsupial, the fat-tailed dunnart (Sminthopsis crassicaudata), and present evidence which suggests that the Opn4x gene was lost before the placental/marsupial split. In situ hybridization shows that the expression of Opn4 in the dunnart eye is restricted to a subset of ganglion cells, a pattern previously reported for rodents and primates. These Opn4-positive cells are randomly distributed across the dunnart retina. We also undertook a comparative analysis with the South American marsupial, the grey short-tailed opossum (Monodelphis domestica), and two placental mammals, mouse and human. This approach reveals that the two marsupials show a higher sequence identity than that seen between rodents and primates, despite separating at approximately the same point in time, some 65-85 Myr ago.
Previous studies indicate that the Sigma-1 ligand 4-phenyl-1-(4-phenylbutyl) piperidine (PPBP) protects the brain from ischemia. Less clear is whether protection is mediated by agonism or antagonism of the Sigma-1 receptor, and whether drugs already in use for other indications and that interact with the Sigma-1 receptor might also prevent oxidative damage due to conditions such as cerebral ischemic stroke. The antipsychotic drug haloperidol is an antagonist of Sigma-1 receptors and in this study it potently protects against oxidative stress-related cell death in vitro at low concentrations. The protective potency of haloperidol and a number of other butyrophenone compounds positively correlate with their affinity for a cloned Sigma-1 receptor, and the protection is mimicked by a Sigma-1 receptor-selective antagonist (BD1063), but not an agonist (PRE-084). In vivo, an acute low dose (0.05 mg/kg s.c.) of haloperidol reduces by half the ischemic lesion volume induced by a transient middle cerebral artery occlusion. These in vitro and in vivo pre-clinical results suggest that a low dose of acutely administered haloperidol might have a novel application as a protective agent against ischemic cerebral stroke and other types of brain injury with an ischemic component.
Trimetazidine (1[2,3,4-trimethoxy-benzyl] piperazine, 2 HCl) is an anti-ischemic agent frequently administered as a prophylactic treatment for episodes of angina pectoris and chorioretinal disturbances. It is also employed as a symptomatic treatment of vertigo but its mechanism of action is yet to be defined. Using Fura-2 fluorescence photometry and whole-cell patch-clamp recordings we investigated the effect of trimetazidine on the [Ca(2+)](i) and current responses induced by the application of non-N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor agonists on low density vestibular ganglion neuronal cultures explanted from 3 day s postnatal rats. Trimetazidine blocked the [Ca(2+)](i) and current responses induced by 100 microM applications of both kainate and alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionate (AMPA). These responses were dependent on external Ca(2+) and were blocked by the voltage-dependent Ca(2+) channel blockers Ni(2+) and Cd(2+) . Trimetazidine only acts on the AMPA/kainate receptors and had no effect on K(+)-induced depolarizations. Dose-dependent curves were obtained for the inhibition by 6-cyano-7-nitroquinoxaline-2,3-dione (CNQX) and trimetazidine (IC(50) 7 microM and 0.7 microM) of kainate stimulations. After AMPA stimulation, dose-response inhibition curves showed an IC(50) of 3 microM for CNQX and 25 microM for trimetazidine. These results indicate that trimetazidine could be a potent antagonist of AMPA/kainate receptors in vestibular ganglion neurons. This may explain the protective role of trimetazidine in the inner ear suggesting an anti-excitotoxic activity.
Hearing relies on faithful synaptic transmission at the ribbon synapse of cochlear inner hair cells (IHCs). Postsynaptic recordings from this synapse in prehearing animals had delivered strong indications for synchronized release of several vesicles. The underlying mechanism, however, remains unclear. Here, we used presynaptic membrane capacitance measurements to test whether IHCs release vesicles in a statistically independent or dependent (coordinated) manner. Exocytic changes of membrane capacitance (deltaC(m)) were repeatedly stimulated in IHCs of prehearing and hearing mice by short depolarizations to preferentially recruit the readily releasable pool of synaptic vesicles. A compound Poisson model was devised to describe hair cell exocytosis and to test the analysis. From the trial-to-trial fluctuations of the deltaC(m) we were able to estimate the apparent size of the elementary fusion event (C(app)) at the hair cell synapse to be 96-223 aF in immature and 55-149 aF in mature IHCs. We also approximated the single vesicle capacitance in IHCs by measurements of synaptic vesicle diameters in electron micrographs. The results (immature, 48 aF; mature, 45 aF) were lower than the respective C(app) estimates. This indicates that coordinated exocytosis of synaptic vesicles occurs at both immature and mature hair cell synapses. Approximately 35% of the release events in mature IHCs and approximately 50% in immature IHCs were predicted to involve coordinated fusion, when assuming a geometric distribution of elementary sizes. In summary, our presynaptic measurements indicate coordinated exocytosis but argue for a lesser degree of coordination than suggested by postsynaptic recordings.
Single-unit recording studies have demonstrated a close link between neural activity in the middle temporal (MT) area and motion perception. In contrast, researchers using functional magnetic resonance imaging and multivoxel pattern analysis methods have recently documented direction-specific responses within many regions of the visual system (e.g., visual cortical areas V1-V4v) not normally associated with motion processing. Our goal was to determine how these direction-selective response patterns directly relate to the conscious perception of motion. We dissociated neuronal responses associated with the perceptual experience of motion from the physical presence of motion in the display by asking observers to report the perceived direction of an ambiguous stimulus. Activation patterns in the human MT complex closely matched the reported perceptual state of the observer, whereas patterns in other visual areas did not. These results suggest that, even when selective responses to a given feature are distributed relatively broadly across the visual system, the conscious experience of that feature may be primarily based on activity within specialized cortical areas.
In the adult mammalian brain, new neurons and glia are continuously generated but molecular factors regulating their differentiation and lineage relationships are largely unknown. We show that Ascl1, a bHLH (basic helix-loop-helix) transcription factor, transiently labels neuronal and oligodendrocyte precursors in the adult brain. Using in vivo lineage tracing with inducible Cre recombinase, we followed the maturation of these precursors in four distinct regions. In the hippocampus, Ascl1 mostly marks type-2a progenitor cells with some late stage type-1 stem cells. Thirty days after Ascl1 expression, although a majority of the cells matured to granule neurons, a few cells remained as immature progenitors. By 6 months, however, essentially all Ascl1 lineage cells were granule neurons. In contrast, in the olfactory bulb neuronal lineage, Ascl1 is restricted to transit amplifying cells, and by 30 d all cells matured into GABAergic interneurons. Ascl1 also broadly marks oligodendrocyte precursors in subcortical gray and white matter regions. In the corpus callosum, Ascl1 defines a ventral layer of early oligodendrocyte precursors that do not yet express other early markers of this lineage like PDGFRalpha and Olig2. By 30 d, most had transitioned to mature oligodendrocytes. In contrast, Ascl1 expressing oligodendrocyte precursors in gray matter already coexpressed the early oligodendrocyte markers, but by 30 d they mostly remained as precursors. Our results reveal that Ascl1 is a common molecular marker of early progenitors of both neurons and oligodendrocytes in the adult brain, and these Ascl1 defined progenitors mature with distinct dynamics in different brain regions.
Binocular rivalry has been extensively studied to understand the mechanisms that control switches in visual awareness and much has been revealed about the contributions of stimulus and cognitive factors. Because visual processes are fundamentally adaptive, however, it is also important to understand how experience alters the dynamics of perceptual switches. When observers viewed binocular rivalry repeatedly over many days, the rate of perceptual switches increased as much as 3-fold. This long-term rivalry speeding exhibited a pattern of image-feature specificity that ruled out primary contributions from strategic and nonsensory factors and implicated neural plasticity occurring in both low- and high-level visual processes in the ventral stream. Furthermore, the speeding occurred only when the rivaling patterns were voluntarily attended, suggesting that the underlying neural plasticity selectively engages when stimuli are behaviorally relevant. Long-term rivalry speeding may thus reflect broader mechanisms that facilitate quick assessments of signals that contain multiple behaviorally relevant interpretations.
Trafficking of AMPA receptors (AMPARs) is regulated by specific interactions of the subunit intracellular C-terminal domains (CTDs) with other proteins, but the mechanisms involved in this process are still unclear. We have found that the GluR1 CTD binds to cGMP-dependent protein kinase II (cGKII) adjacent to the kinase catalytic site. Binding of GluR1 is increased when cGKII is activated by cGMP. cGKII and GluR1 form a complex in the brain, and cGKII in this complex phosphorylates GluR1 at S845, a site also phosphorylated by PKA. Activation of cGKII by cGMP increases the surface expression of AMPARs at extrasynaptic sites. Inhibition of cGKII activity blocks the surface increase of GluR1 during chemLTP and reduces LTP in the hippocampal slice. This work identifies a pathway, downstream from the NMDA receptor (NMDAR) and nitric oxide (NO), which stimulates GluR1 accumulation in the plasma membrane and plays an important role in synaptic plasticity.
In the sense of touch, it is the motion of the sensory receptors themselves that leads to an afferent signal-whether these receptors are in our fingertips sliding along a surface or a rat's whiskers palpating an object. Afferent signals can be correctly interpreted only if the sensory system receives information about the brain's own motor output. In this issue of Neuron, Urbain and Deschnes provide new insights into the physiological and anatomical interplay between tactile and motor signals in rats.

The basolateral nuclear complex of the amygdala (BLC) receives a dense serotonergic innervation that appears to play a critical role in the regulation of mood and anxiety. However, little is known about how serotonergic inputs interface with different neuronal subpopulations in this region. To address this question, dual-labeling immunohistochemical techniques were used at the light and electron microscopic levels to examine inputs from serotonin-immunoreactive (5-HT+) terminals to different neuronal subpopulations in the rat BLC. Pyramidal cells were labeled by using antibodies to calcium/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II, whereas different interneuronal subpopulations were labeled by using antibodies to a variety of interneuronal markers including parvalbumin (PV), vasoactive intestinal peptide (VIP), calretinin, calbindin, cholecystokinin, and somatostatin. The BLC exhibited a dense innervation by thin 5-HT+ axons. Electron microscopic examination of the anterior basolateral nucleus (BLa) revealed that 5-HT+ axon terminals contained clusters of small synaptic vesicles and a smaller number of larger dense-core vesicles. Serial section reconstruction of 5-HT+ terminals demonstrated that 76% of these terminals formed synaptic junctions. The great majority of these synapses were symmetrical. The main targets of 5-HT+ terminals were spines and distal dendrites of pyramidal cells. However, in light microscopic preparations it was common to observe apparent contacts between 5-HT+ terminals and all subpopulations of BLC interneurons. Electron microscopic analysis of the BLa in sections dual-labeled for 5-HT/PV and 5-HT/VIP revealed that many of these contacts were synapses. These findings suggest that serotonergic axon terminals differentially innervate several neuronal subpopulations in the BLC.
The aim of this study was to explore local brain atrophy of patients with alcohol dependence using a voxel-based analysis of magnetic resonance images and to investigate the relationship of those atrophic regions with drinking history and neuropsychological performances. Statistical parametric mapping was applied for the global and regional comparison of segmented gray matter and white matter images from 20 patients with alcohol dependence and with those from 20 controls. The Rey auditory-verbal learning test, Rey-Osterrieth complex figure test, Stroop test, trail-making test, and Wisconsin card sorting test were conducted as neuropsychological evaluations. There was a significant decrease in both gray matter and white matter globally in alcohol dependence. Bilateral parahippocampal white matter areas were reduced in particular. Perseverative responses and perseverative errors in the Wisconsin card sorting test had significant correlation with the decrease of gray matter decrease including the left superior temporal gyri and right postcentral region. The psychological performance measures correlated with gray matter rather than white matter, whereas right temporal white matter correlated with drinking amount for last 4 weeks. This may imply that alcohol consumption in heavy amounts damages both gray matter and white matter, and gray matter atrophy mainly leads to cognitive impairment, whereas white matter is related to drinking history.
Brain cholecystokinin (CCK) and its receptor CCK(2) have been implicated in the etiology of anxiety. CCK(2) antagonists, however, fail to ameliorate anxiety in humans. In this study, a role for CCK in adaptation to stress is investigated by testing carry-over effects of Ly225.910, a potent CCK(2) antagonist, in a rat model of individual differences in novelty-induced emotionality. Novelty-seeking behavior in the rat is thought to model some aspects of sensation-seeking, a personality trait closely associated with risk activities including substance abuse. Animals were categorized as high-responders (HR) and low-responders (LR) based on the activity response to an inescapable novel environment. High-responders exhibit increased exploration and proactive behavior while low-responders are less exploratory and deemed to behave more anxiously. We analyzed the effects of the CCK(2) antagonist Ly225.910 (0.1 mg/kg or 0.5 mg/kg, i.p.) on the anxiety displayed by HR and LR rats in the light-dark (LD) box test (Day 1). Treatment and phenotype effects were not acutely evident. LD-experienced rats were then re-exposed to drug-free LD-box (Days 4 and 11) and elevated plus-maze (EPM) test (Day 14). Drug-nave HR rats behaved less anxiously than drug-nave LR rats while exploring the open arms. Previous exposure to the antagonist curtailed these differences. The emotional responses in drug-nave HR and LR rats to the EPM test could reflect different degrees of adaptation to anxiety-like training. Long-term effects of Ly225.910 on EPM-induced risk assessment in HR and LR rats suggest that CCK-system may be involved in modulating preparedness to arousing environmental changes.
Plexin-B1, Sema4D receptor, mediates retraction and extension signals in axon guidance by associating with PDZ-containing Rho guanine nucleotide exchange factors (PDZ-RhoGEFs) which can activate a small Rho GTPase RhoA. RhoA is implicated in spine formation by rearranging actin cytoskeleton. Exogenous application of Sema4D to cultured neurons caused activation of RhoA, increase of spine density and changes in spine shape. Sema4D-induced changes in spine density were blocked by either Rho-kinase (a downstream of RhoA, ROCK) inhibitor Y-27632 or by overexpression of plexin-B1 mutant lacking the C-terminus which no longer associates with PDZ-RhoGEFs. This study suggests that Sema4D-plexin-B1 play a crucial role in spine formation by regulating RhoA/ROCK pathway.
Peroxiredoxins (Prx), a family of peroxidases that reduce intracellular peroxides with the thioredoxin system as the electron donor, are highly expressed in various cellular compartments. Among the antioxidant Prx enzymes, Prx2 is the most abundant in mammalian neurons, making it a prime candidate to defend against oxidative stress. Here we report that Prx2 is S-nitrosylated (forming SNO-Prx2) by reaction with nitric oxide at two critical cysteine residues (C51 and C172), preventing its reaction with peroxides. We observed increased SNO-Prx2 in human Parkinson's disease (PD) brains, and S-nitrosylation of Prx2 inhibited both its enzymatic activity and protective function from oxidative stress. Dopaminergic neurons, which are lost in PD, become particularly vulnerable. Thus, our data provide a direct link between nitrosative/oxidative stress and neurodegenerative disorders such as PD.
Recent evidence has indicated that common mechanisms play roles among multiple neurological diseases. However, the specifics of these pathways are not completely understood. Stroke is caused by the interruption of blood flow to the brain, and cumulative evidence supports the critical role of oxidative stress in the ensuing neuronal death process. DJ-1 (PARK7) has been identified as the gene linked to early-onset familial Parkinson's disease. Currently, our work also shows that DJ-1 is central to death in both in Vitro and in Vivo models of stroke. Loss of DJ-1 increases the sensitivity to excitotoxicity and ischemia, whereas expression of DJ-1 can reverse this sensitivity and indeed provide further protection. Importantly, DJ-1 expression decreases markers of oxidative stress after stroke insult in Vivo, suggesting that DJ-1 protects through alleviation of oxidative stress. Consistent with this finding, we demonstrate the essential role of the oxidation-sensitive cysteine-106 residue in the neuroprotective activity of DJ-1 after stroke. Our work provides an important example of how a gene seemingly specific for one disease, in this case Parkinson's disease, also appears to be central in other neuropathological conditions such as stroke. It also highlights the important commonalities among differing neuropathologies.
The cyclic adenosine monophosphate-specific phosphodiesterase-4 (PDE4) gene family is the target of several potential therapeutic inhibitors and the PDE4B gene has been associated with schizophrenia and depression. Little, however, is known of any connection between this gene family and autism, with limited effective treatment being available for autism. We measured the expression of PDE4A and PDE4B by sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis and Western blotting in Brodmann's area 40 (BA40, parietal cortex), BA9 (superior frontal cortex), and cerebellum from subjects with autism and matched controls. We observed a lower expression of PDE4A5, PDE4B1, PDE4B3, PDE4B4, and PDE4B2 in the cerebella of subjects with autism when compared with matched controls. In BA9, we observed the opposite: a higher expression of PDE4AX, PDE4A1, and PDE4B2 in subjects with autism. No changes were observed in BA40. Our results demonstrate altered expressions of the PDE4A and PDE4B proteins in the brains of subjects with autism and might provide new therapeutic avenues for the treatment of this debilitating disorder.
Actions and their associated consequences, such as reward attainment, are often temporally distant. Animals nevertheless learn such associations thereby solving the 'distal reward' problem. We sought to determine whether dopamine signaling plays a role in such learning. Wild-type and dopamine type I receptor knockout mice executed three left/right choices leading to one of eight differentially rewarded goal sites. Compared with wild-type mice, knockouts exhibited selective impairments in decision making at choice points distal, but not proximal, to goal sites. We conclude that dopamine's role in reinforcement learning depends on the temporal relationship of actions to reward and that dopamine signaling through D1 receptors constitutes a component of those brain mechanisms responsible for solving the distal reward problem.
A recent hypothesis suggests that there is impaired hippocampal neurogenesis in Alzheimer's disease. Here we examined the proliferation, the first stage in neurogenesis, of hippocampal progenitor cells in amyloid precursor protein with Swedish mutation and presenilin-1 with deletion of exon 9 (APPswe/PS1dE9) transgenic mice. Compared with age-matched wild-type mice, transgenic mice at 5 months of age with low amyloid beta-peptide (Abeta) levels and subtle Abeta deposits showed normal proliferation of hippocampal progenitor cells; however, transgenic mice at 9 months of age with high Abeta levels and numerous Abeta deposits showed decreased proliferation of these cells. The number of proliferating cells in male transgenic mice was indistinguishable from that in female transgenic mice. These results indicate that neurogenesis is decreased with degrees of Abeta pathology, and that there is no gender difference in their proliferation in APPswe/PS1dE9 transgenic mice.
Empathy is a concept central to psychiatry, psychotherapy and clinical psychology. The construct of empathy involves not only the affective experience of the other person's actual or inferred emotional state but also some minimal recognition and understanding of another's emotional state. It is proposed, in the light of multiple levels of analysis including social psychology, cognitive neuroscience and clinical neuropsychology, a model of empathy that involves both bottom-up and top-down information processing underpinned by parallel and distributed computational mechanisms. The predictive validity of this model is explored with reference to clinical conditions. As many psychiatric conditions are associated with deficits or even lack of empathy, we discuss a limited number of these disorders including psychopathy/antisocial personality disorders, borderline and narcissistic personality disorders, autistic spectrum disorders, and alexithymia. We argue that future clinical investigations of empathy disorders can only be informative if behavioral, dispositional and biological factors are combined.

Biologically based mobile devices have been constructed that differ from robots based on artificial intelligence. These brain-based devices (BBDs) contain simulated brains that autonomously categorize signals from the environment without a priori instruction. Two such BBDs, Darwin VII and Darwin X, are described here. Darwin VII recognizes objects and links categories to behavior through instrumental conditioning. Darwin X puts together the &quot;what,&quot;when,&quot; and &quot;where&quot; from cues in the environment into an episodic memory that allows it to find a desired target. Although these BBDs are designed to provide insights into how the brain works, their principles may find uses in building hybrid machines. These machines would combine the learning ability of BBDs with explicitly programmed control systems.


An improved chemical synthesis of N-2((2S)-2-(3,5-difluorophenyl)-2-hydroxyethanoyl)-N1-((7S)-5-methyl-6-oxo-6,7-dihydro-5H-dibenzo[b,d]azepin-7-yl)-l-alaninamide (LY411,575, 9a), a known gamma-secretase inhibitor, is described. The key synthetic steps, which used no chiral chromatography in the entire sequence, involved (1) improved microwave-assisted synthesis of a seven-membered lactam (+/-)-(5,7-dihydro-6H-dibenz-[b,d]azepin-6-one 2, and (2) convenient isolation of pure LY411575 from a mixture of four diastereomers by simple flash silica gel chromatography. Starting from the resolved aminolactams 5a and 5b, all four diastereomers were produced in enantiomerically pure form.
The optimization of GS39783 into potent, selective, and safe positive allosteric modulators of GABA(B) receptors is presented.
Cells must coordinate diverse processes including cell division, cell migration, and cell polarity with the cell's metabolic status. How single molecules coordinate these seemingly distinct cell biological events remains relatively unexplored. AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK) sits at a unique position as a proposed energy sensor that can interface with diverse signaling molecules ranging from LKB1 to mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR), affecting processes from ribosomal biogenesis to actin regulation. Determining biologically relevant direct kinase targets remains challenging. Alternatively, one can genetically inactivate a kinase and subsequently characterize cellular and whole animal phenotypes without the kinase's activity. Recent genetic studies inactivating AMPK activity in Drosophila indicate unanticipated roles for AMPK as a regulator of epithelial polarity, consistent with known roles of an upstream activator, LKB1 as a PAR (portioning defective) mutant in Caenorhabditis elegans and polarity regulator. Additional genetic analyses demonstrate that both AMPK and LKB1 function are required for faithful chromosomal segregation during mitosis. At least some of these apparently divergent phenotypes may be mediated through myosin regulatory light chain, and presumably the acto-myosin complex, which can affect both polarity and cell division. Chromosomal integrity defects could also be consistent with LKB1's role as a known human tumor suppressor gene. Elucidating the molecular players that interface with AMPK and their potential energy dependent regulation remains an important challenge to fully understand AMPK signaling.
Neurons and their precursor cells are formed in different regions within the developing CNS, but they migrate and occupy very specific sites in the mature CNS. The ultimate position of neurons is crucial for establishing proper synaptic connectivity in the brain. In Drosophila, despite its extensive use as a model system to study neurogenesis, we know almost nothing about neuronal migration or its regulation. In this paper, I show that one of the most studied neuronal pairs in the Drosophila nerve cord, RP2/sib, has a complicated migratory route. Based on my studies on Wingless (Wg) signaling, I report that the neuronal migratory pattern is determined at the precursor cell stage level. The results show that Wg activity in the precursor neuroectodermal and neuroblast levels specify neuronal migratory pattern two divisions later, thus, well ahead of the actual migratory event. Moreover, at least two downstream genes, Cut and Zfh1, are involved in this process but their role is at the downstream neuronal level. The functional importance of normal neuronal migration and the requirement of Wg signaling for the process are indicated by the finding that mislocated RP2 neurons in embryos mutant for Wg-signaling fail to properly send out their axon projection.
The cell adhesion molecule neurofascin (NF) has a major neuronal isoform (NF186) containing a mucin-like domain followed by a fifth fibronectin type III repeat while these domains are absent from glial NF155. Neuronal NF isoforms lacking one or both of these domains are expressed transiently in embryonic dorsal root ganglia (DRG). These two domains are co-expressed in mature NF186, which peaks in expression prior to birth and then persists almost exclusively at nodes of Ranvier on myelinated axons. In contrast, glial NF155 is only detected postnatally with the onset of myelination. All these forms of NF bound homophilically and to Schwann cells but only the mature NF186 isoform inhibits cell adhesion, and this activity may be important in formation of the node of Ranvier. Schwann cells deficient in NF155 myelinated DRG axons in a delayed manner and they showed significantly decreased clustering of both NF and Caspr in regions where paranodes normally form. The combined results suggest that NF186 is expressed prenatally on DRG neurons and it may modulate their adhesive interactions with Schwann cells, which express NF155 postnatally and require it for development of axon-glial paranodal junctions.
Vg1, a member of the TGF-beta superfamily of ligands, has been implicated in the induction of mesoderm, formation of primitive streak, and left-right patterning in Xenopus and chick embryos. In mice, GDF1 and GDF3 - two TGF-beta superfamily ligands that share high sequence identity with Vg1 - have been shown to independently mimic distinct aspects of Vg1's functions. However, the extent to which the developmental processes controlled by GDF1 and GDF3 and the underlying signaling mechanisms are evolutionarily conserved remains unclear. Here we show that phylogenetic and genomic analyses indicate that Gdf1 is the true Vg1 ortholog in mammals. In addition, and similar to GDF1, we find that GDF3 signaling can be mediated by the type I receptor ALK4, type II receptors ActRIIA and ActRIIB, and the co-receptor Cripto to activate Smad-dependent reporter genes. When expressed in heterologous cells, the native forms of either GDF1 or GDF3 were incapable of inducing downstream signaling. This could be circumvented by using chimeric constructs carrying heterologous prodomains, or by co-expression with the Furin pro-protein convertase, indicating poor processing of the native GDF1 and GDF3 precursors. Unexpectedly, co-expression with Nodal - another TGF-beta superfamily ligand involved in mesoderm formation - could also expose the activities of native GDF1 and GDF3, suggesting a potentially novel mode of cooperation between these ligands. Functional complementarity between GDF1 and GDF3 during embryonic development was investigated by analyzing genetic interactions between their corresponding genes. This analysis showed that Gdf1(-/-);Gdf3(-/-) compound mutants are more severely affected than either Gdf1(-/-) or Gdf3(-/-) single mutants, with defects in the formation of anterior visceral endoderm and mesoderm that recapitulate Vg1 loss of function, suggesting that GDF1 and GDF3 together represent the functional mammalian homologs of Vg1.

Generally, it has been accepted that microglia play important roles in brain inflammation. However, recently several studies suggested possible infiltration of blood neutrophils and monocytes into the brain. To understand contribution of microglia and blood inflammatory cells to brain inflammation, the behavior of microglia, neutrophils, and monocytes was investigated in LPS (lipopolysaccharide)-injected substantia nigra pars compacta, cortex, and hippocampus of normal and/or leukopenic rats using specific markers of neutrophils (myeloperoxidase, MPO), and microglia and monocytes (ionized calcium binding adaptor molecule-1, Iba-1), as well as a general marker for these inflammatory cells (CD11b). CD11b-immunopositive (CD11b(+)) cells and Iba-1(+) cells displayed similar behavior in intact and LPS-injected brain at 6 h after the injection. Interestingly, however, CD11b(+) cells and Iba-1(+) cells displayed significantly different behavior at 12 h: Iba-1(+) cells disappeared while CD11b(+) cells became round in shape. We found that CD11b/Iba-1-double positive (CD11b(+)/Iba-1(+)) ramified microglia died within 6 h after LPS injection. The round CD11b(+) cells detected at 12 h were MPO(+). These CD11b(+)/MPO(+) cells were not found in leukopenic rats, suggestive of neutrophil infiltration. MPO(+) neutrophils expressed inducible nitric oxide synthase, interleukin-1beta, cyclooxygenase-2, and monocyte chemoattractant protein-1, but died within 18 h. CD11b(+) cells detected at 24 h appeared to be infiltrated monocytes, since these cells were once labeled with Iba-1 and were not found in leukopenic rats. Furthermore, transplanted monocytes were detectable in LPS-injected brain. These results suggest that at least a part of neutrophils and monocytes could have been misinterpreted as activated microglia in inflamed brain.
Astrocytes are thought to exert diverse functions in the brain, but it has been difficult to prove this in vivo because of a scarcity of tools to manipulate these cells. Here, we report the generation of new transgenic mouse lines that allow for conditional gene ablation in astrocytes using the tamoxifen- (TAM-) inducible CreER(T2)/loxP system and bacterial artificial chromosome (BAC)-based transgenesis. In adult transgenic mice, where CreER(T2) expression is driven by the promoter of the sodium-dependent glutamate/aspartate transporter (Glast/Slc1a3) or of connexin 30 (Cx30/Gjb6), intraperitoneal TAM-injection induced Cre-mediated recombination in astroglial cells throughout the brain. Targeting efficacies varied in a region-specific manner from 20 to 90% as indicated by enzyme-based reporter lines and immunohistochemical staining. In addition, the Glast-line allowed to target retinal Mller cells and adult neural stem/progenitor cells in neurogenic regions of the adult brain. Transgenic mice expressing CreER(T2) under the control of the apolipoprotein e (ApoE) or aquaporin 4 (Aqp4) promoter showed inducible recombination in different areas of the central nervous system (CNS) albeit at low levels. Transgenic lines showed TAM-induced recombination in specific peripheral organs. These new mouse lines should help to further explore the relevance of astrocytes for brain function, as well as their contribution to pathological conditions because of aging, disease or injury.
Niemann-Pick disease type C (NPC) is a deadly neurodegenerative disease often caused by mutation in a gene called NPC1, which results in the accumulation of unesterified cholesterol and glycosphingolipids in the endosomal-lysosomal system. Most studies on the mechanisms of neurodegeneration in NPC have focused on neurons. However, the possibility also exists that NPC1 affects neuronal functions indirectly by acting on other cells that are intimately interacting with neurons. In this study, using a heterotypic neuron-glia coculture system, we found that wild-type neurons cultured on a layer of NPC1-/- astrocytes showed decreased neurite growth compared with those cultured on wild-type astrocytes. RT-PCR and immunohistochemical assessments showed significantly lower expression of neurosteroid enzymes and StAR (steroidogenic acute regulatory protein) in NPC1-/- astrocyte cultures than in wild-type cultures. Furthermore, a reduced level of estradiol was measured from both astrocyte culture medium and whole brains from NPC1-/- mice. Administration of 17beta-estradiol to neonatal NPC1-/- mice significantly delayed the onset of neurological symptoms, increased Purkinje cell survival, and extended the animals' life span. Our findings suggest that astrocyte dysfunction contributes to the neurodegeneration of NPC and estradiol treatment may be useful in ameliorating progression of the disease.
Distal myopathy with rimmed vacuoles (DMRV) or hereditary inclusion body myopathy (hIBM) is an early adult-onset distal myopathy caused by mutations in the UDP-N-acetylglucosamine 2-epimerase/N-acetylmannosamine kinase (GNE) gene which encodes for a bifunctional enzyme involved in sialic acid biosynthesis. It is pathologically characterized by the presence of rimmed vacuoles (RVs), especially in atrophic fibers, which also occasionally contain congophilic materials that are immunoreactive to beta-amyloid, lysosomal proteins, ubiquitin and tau proteins. To elucidate the pathomechanism of this myopathy and to explore treatment options, we generated a mouse model of DMRV/hIBM. We knocked out the Gne gene in mice but this resulted in embryonic lethality. We therefore generated a transgenic mouse that expressed the human GNE D176V mutation, which is one of the most prevalent mutations among Japanese DMRV patients, and crossed this with Gne(+/-) mice to obtain Gne(-/-)hGNED176V-Tg. Interestingly, these mice exhibit marked hyposialylation in serum, muscle and other organs. Reduction in motor performance in these mice can only be seen from 30 weeks of age. A compelling finding is the development of beta-amyloid deposition in myofibers by 32 weeks, which clearly precedes RV formation at 42 weeks. These results show that the Gne(-/-)hGNED176V-Tg mouse mimics the clinical, histopathological and biochemical features of DMRV/hIBM, making it useful for understanding the pathomechanism of this myopathy and for employing different strategies for therapy. Our findings underscore the notion that hyposialylation plays an important role in the pathomechanism of DMRV/hIBM.
Hepatic encephalopathy (HE) in both acute and chronic liver failure is more likely a reversible functional disease rather than an irreversible pathological lesion of brain cells. Metabolic alterations underlie many of the mechanisms leading to HE. This paper summarizes in vivo and ex vivo (1)H-, (13)C-, and (15)N-nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) spectroscopy data on patients and experimental models of HE. In vivo NMR spectroscopy provides a unique opportunity to study metabolic changes noninvasively in the brain in vivo, and to quantify various metabolites in localized brain areas, and ex vivo NMR permits the high-resolution measurement of metabolites and the identification of different metabolic pathways. In vivo and ex vivo (1)H-NMR investigations consistently reveal severalfold increases in brain glutamine and concomitant decreases in myo-inositol, an important osmolyte in astrocytes. An osmotic disturbance in these cells has long been suggested to be responsible for astrocyte swelling and brain edema. However, ex vivo (13)C-NMR studies have challenged the convention that glutamine accumulation is the major cause of brain edema in acute HE. They rather indicate a limited anaplerotic flux and capacity of astrocytes to detoxify ammonia by glutamine synthesis and emphasize distortions of energy and neurotransmitter metabolism. However, recent (15)N-NMR investigations have demonstrated that glutamine fluxes between neurons and astrocytes are affected by ammonia. Further NMR studies may provide novel insights into the relationship between brain edema and/or astrocyte pathology and changes in inter- and intracellular glutamine homeostasis, which may secondarily alter brain energy metabolism.
Autofluorescence optical imaging is rapidly becoming a widely used tool for mapping activity in the central nervous system function in vivo and investigating the coupling among neurons, glia, and metabolism. This paper provides a brief review of autofluorescence and of our recent work using flavoprotein imaging in the cerebellar cortex. Stimulation of the parallel fibers evokes an intrinsic fluorescence signal that is tightly coupled to neuronal activation and primarily generated postsynaptically. The signal originates from mitochondrial flavoproteins. The signal is biphasic, with the initial increase in fluorescence (light phase) resulting from the oxidation of flavoproteins and the subsequent decrease (dark phase) from the reduction of flavoproteins. The light phase is primarily neuronal, and the dark phase is primarily glial. Exploiting the spatial properties of molecular layer inhibition in the cerebellar cortex, we show that flavoprotein autofluorescence can monitor both excitatory and inhibitory activity in the cerebellar cortex. Furthermore, flavoprotein autofluorescence has revealed that molecular layer inhibition is organized into parasagittal domains that differentially modulate the spatial pattern of cerebellar cortical activity. The reduction in flavoprotein autofluorescence occurring in the inhibitory bands most likely reflects a decrease in intracellular Ca(2+) in the neurons inhibited by the molecular layer interneurons. Therefore, flavoprotein autofluorescence imaging is providing new insights into cerebellar cortical function and neurometabolic coupling.
In brain slices, excitatory synaptic stimulation results typically in transient initial decreases in NAD(P)H fluorescence, followed by longer-lasting NAD(P)H increases that overshoot pre-stimulus NAD(P)H levels before returning slowly to baseline. We concluded recently that mitochondrial metabolism (rather than NADH generation by glycolysis) was responsible for the &quot;overshoot&quot; phase of responses evoked in murine hippocampal slices. The present study examined factors that may influence the amplitude of the overshoot phase, without necessarily directly influencing mitochondrial or glycolytic metabolism. The amplitudes of overshoots were influenced strongly by changes in pre-stimulus NAD(P)H fluorescence levels produced by a prior electrical stimulus. In contrast, these changes in pre-stimulus redox state had little effect on the amplitude of evoked initial NAD(P)H decreases. Resting NAD(P)H fluorescence levels differed significantly across sub-regions of each slice, however, this is not due to differences in resting redox state, and the relative amplitude of NAD(P)H overshoots were not different in different slice regions. Exposure to an A1 receptor agonist (CPA) reduced the amplitude of postsynaptic potentials, and preferentially reduced the amplitude of NAD(P)H overshoots, before initial oxidizing components of biphasic transients were reduced significantly. These results suggest that amplitudes of NAD(P)H overshoots may not be good quantitative measures of the intensity of a discrete stimulus, under some conditions where the stimulus is small relative to recent activity in the slice. Comparison of flavoprotein autofluorescence with NAD(P)H levels seems useful when making quantitative comparisons of responses from different regions of slices, where optical properties and ongoing activity may be substantially different.
Glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF) promotes the survival and functions of neurons. It has been shown to be a promising candidate in the treatment of ischemia and other neurodegenerative diseases. We transfected mouse astrocytes in primary cultures with a human GDNF gene and found that their conditioned medium could not only support the growth and survival of cultured dopaminergic neurons but also protect astrocytes from staurosporine- and ischemia-induced apoptosis. This indicated that these transfected astrocytes could release GDNF. A similar protective effect on astrocytes against apoptosis was evident when recombinant human GDNF was used. Moreover, GDNF reduced caspase-3 activity but not that of caspase-1 in cultured astrocytes after ischemia treatment. Thus, GDNF protects astrocytes from apoptosis by inhibiting the activation of caspase-3.
Pyruvate recycling is a pathway for complete oxidation of glutamate. The cellular location and the physiological significance of such recycling has been debated during the last decade. The present study was aimed at elucidating whether recycling takes place in neuron-enriched cultures of dissociated cerebella, consisting mainly of glutamatergic granule cells, some GABAergic neurons, and few astrocytes. These cultures and cultures of astrocytes from cerebellum were incubated in medium containing [U-(13)C]glutamate, and cell extracts were analyzed by gas chromatography and mass spectrometry. Additionally, in the case of the neuron-enriched cultures, a magnetic resonance (MR) spectrum was obtained. It could be shown that the atom percentage excess of the isotopomer representing pyruvate recycling in glutamate (M + 4) was similar for astrocytes and neuron-enriched cultures. However, the latter showed more recycling in glutamine (synthesized in the small fraction of astrocytes) than the pure astrocyte cultures, whereas the reverse was the case for aspartate. In fact, the atom percentage excess of the isotopomer representing pyruvate recycling in glutamine was slightly but significantly higher than that in glutamate in the neuron-enriched cultures. It can be concluded that pyruvate recycling is clearly present in neurons, and this was verified by MR spectroscopy.
In mice, the deletion of the STOP protein leads to hyperdopaminergia and major behavioral disorders that are alleviated by neuroleptics, representing a potential model of schizophrenia. The reduction of the glutamatergic synaptic vesicle pool in the hippocampus could reflect a disturbance in glutamatergic neurotransmission in this model. Here we examined potential disturbances in energy metabolism and interactions between neurons and glia in 15-week-old STOP KO, wild-type, and heterozygous mice. Animals received [1-(13)C]glucose and [1,2-(13)C]acetate, the preferential substrates of neurons and astrocytes, respectively. Extracts from the whole forebrain and midbrain were analyzed by HPLC, (13)C and (1)H NMR spectroscopy. Amounts and labeling of most metabolites were unchanged. However, glutamine concentration and amount of [4,5-(13)C]glutamine derived from [1,2-(13)C]acetate significantly decreased by 17% and 18%, respectively, in STOP KO compared with wild-type mice. The amount of [4-(13)C]glutamate was decreased in STOP KO and heterozygous compared with wild-type mice. gamma-Aminobutyric acid labeling was not influenced by the genotype. Because STOP-deficient mice have a lower synaptic vesicle density, less glutamate is released to the synaptic cleft, leading to decreased stimulation of the postsynaptic glutamate receptors, reflecting increased glutamine metabolism only in the vicinity of the postsynapse of STOP KO mice.
The slow afterhyperpolarization (sAHP) following the action potential is the main determinant of spike frequency regulation. The sAHP after single action potentials in neurons of the lamprey locomotor network is largely due to calcium-dependent K+channels (80%), activated by calcium entering the cell during the spike. The residual (20%) component becomes prominent during high level activity (50% of the sAHP). It is not Ca2+ dependent, has a reversal potential like that of potassium, and is not affected by chloride injection. It is not due to rapid activation of Na+/K+-ATPase. This non-KCa-sAHP is reduced markedly in amplitude when sodium ions are replaced by lithium ions, and is thus sodium dependent. Quinidine also blocks this sAHP component, further indicating an involvement of sodium-dependent potassium channels (KNa). Modulators tested do not influence the KNa-sAHP amplitude. Immunofluorescence labelling with an anti-Slack antibody revealed distinct immunoreactivity of medium-sized and large neurons in the grey matter of the lamprey spinal cord, suggesting the presence of a Slack-like subtype of KNa channel. The results strongly indicate that a KNa potassium current contributes importantly to the sAHP and thereby to neuronal frequency regulation during high level burst activity as during locomotion. This is, to our knowledge, the first demonstration of a functional role for the Slack gene in contributing to the slow AHP.
Neuronal responses to auditory stimuli and electrical stimulation were examined in 104 neurones in the auditory sector of thalamic reticular nucleus (TRN) and nine medial geniculate (MGB) neurones from anaesthetized guinea pigs. TRN neurones showed rhythmic spontaneous activities. TRN neurones changed firing pattern over time, from tonic to burst in a time interval of several seconds to tens of seconds. One-third of the TRN neurones (25/76) responded to the acoustic stimulus in a slow oscillation mode, either producing a spike burst at one time and responded with nothing another time, or producing a spike burst at one time and a single spike at the other. Thirty-two of 40 neurones received a corticofugal modulation effect. Nineteen of 32 neurones responded directly to electrical stimulation of the cortex with an oscillation of the same rhythm (7-14 Hz) as its auditory-evoked oscillation. Six neurones changed their firing pattern from burst to tonic when the auditory cortex was activated. As the TRN applied inhibition to the MGB, the oscillatory nature of inhibition would affect the fidelity of MGB relays. Thus, it was unlikely that the MGB was in relay mode when the TRN was in a slow oscillation mode. These results hint at a possible mechanism for the modulation of states of vigilance through the corticofugal pathway via the TRN.
Benzodiazepines (BDZs) are known to increase the amplitude and duration of IPSCs. Moreover, at low [GABA], BDZs strongly enhance GABAergic currents suggesting the up-regulation of agonist binding while their action on gating remains a matter of debate. In the present study we have examined the impact of flurazepam and zolpidem on mIPSCs by investigating their effects on GABA(A)R binding and gating and by considering dynamic conditions of synaptic receptor activation. Flurazepam and zolpidem enhanced the amplitude and prolonged decay of mIPSCs. Both compounds strongly enhanced responses to low [GABA] but, surprisingly, decreased the currents evoked by saturating or half-saturating [GABA]. Analysis of current responses to ultrafast GABA applications indicated that these compounds enhanced binding and desensitization of GABA(A) receptors. Flurazepam and zolpidem markedly prolonged deactivation of responses to low [GABA] but had almost no effect on deactivation at saturating or half-saturating [GABA]. Moreover, at low [GABA], flurazepam enhanced desensitization-deactivation coupling but zolpidem did not. Recordings of responses to half-saturating [GABA] applications revealed that appropriate timing of agonist exposure was sufficient to reproduce either a decrease or enhancement of currents by flurazepam or zolpidem. Recordings of currents mediated by recombinant ('synaptic') alpha1beta2gamma2 receptors reproduced all major findings observed for neuronal GABA(A)Rs. We conclude that an extremely brief agonist transient renders IPSCs particularly sensitive to the up-regulation of agonist binding by BDZs.
Little information is available on the surgical treatment of movement disorders in Wilson's disease. We report a successful outcome of left-sided stereotactic thalamotomy in a 30-year-old man with Wilson's disease, who had severe postural-kinetic tremor of both hands. The improvement was bilateral. Our case illustrates that stereotactic thalamotomy may be considered as an option in treating severe tremor in selected patients of Wilson's disease and merit further trials.
The objective of this study was to investigate neurochemical and metabolic changes in the motor cortex in a group of de novo Parkinson's disease (PD) patients before and after 6 mo treatment with the dopamine agonist pergolide. Proton magnetic resonance spectroscopy (1H-MRS) has been used to study striatal and cortical metabolism in PD and other parkinsonisms. So far, no studies evaluating possible brain metabolic changes in PD patients before and after dopaminergic therapy have been reported. De novo PD patients (11) and controls (11) underwent clinical evaluation (UPDRS-III motor evaluation) and a first single-voxel 1H-MRS of the motor cortex. 1H-MRS studies were performed using the PROBE-SV System implemented on a 1.5 Tesla Scanner (GE Medical System, Milwaukee, WI). Pergolide was administered up to a dose of 1 mg t.i.d. After 6 mo follow-up, all patients were clinically evaluated and a second single-voxel 1H-MRS was performed. Lower values of Cho/Cr and NAA/Cr ratios were observed in the motor cortex of PD patients compared with controls (P &lt; 0.02 and P &lt; 0.01, respectively). After 6 mo therapy with pergolide (1 mg t.i.d), PD patients showed an improvement in motor performances (P &lt; 0.05) and an increase in Cho/Cr ratios in the motor cortex at the second 1H-MRS evaluation (P &lt; 0.05) was reported. In conclusion, cortical NAA/Cr and Cho/Cr ratios may be impaired in de novo PD. Dopaminergic therapy capable of improving motor function may restore the Cho/Cr ratio in the motor cortex.
The objective of this study was to examine the validity of the mentation, behavior, and mood items included in Part I of the Unified Parkinson's Disease Rating Scale (UPDRS) and to assess its usefulness to screen for dementia, psychosis, depression, and apathy. A consecutive series of 168 patients with PD were assessed by neurologists with the UPDRS, and by psychiatrists using a comprehensive neuropsychiatric evaluation blind to each other's ratings. ROC analysis demonstrated that a score of 2 or greater on the intellectual impairment item of the UPDRS had 60% sensitivity and 92% specificity to detect dementia, as diagnosed with DSM-IV criteria. When a score of 23 or lower on the MMSE was included as an additional classification variable, the sensitivity increased to 85%. A score of 2 or greater on the thought disorder item had 43% sensitivity and 92% specificity to detect psychotic symptoms (delusions or hallucinations). A score of 2 or greater on the depression item had 77% sensitivity and 82% specificity to detect major depression as diagnosed with DSM-IV criteria. Finally, a score of 2 or greater on the motivation/initiative item had 73% sensitivity and 65% specificity to detect apathy, as diagnosed with a standardized criteria. When the sample was divided into mild (i.e. Hohen-Yahr stages I and II) versus moderate-severe PD (i.e. Hohen-Yahr stages III-V), findings remained unchanged, except that the UPDRS show unacceptably low accuracy to detect psychosis in mild PD. The mentation, behavior, and mood section of the UPDRS is an adequate screen for depression and apathy, and has adequate sensitivity to detect dementia when combined with the Mini-Mental State Exam, but has low sensitivity to detect psychosis.
We present the clinical details and dopamine transporter SPECT scan results of 10 patients with arm tremor, including a rest component and reduced arm swing on the affected side, in whom the possibility of PD had been raised. All patients had signs of dystonia or components of their arm tremor that were compatible with dystonic tremor, and none had true akinesia with fatiguing or decrement, even after a mean follow-up period of 5.8 years. All patients had normal dopamine transporter SPECT scans. Clinicians should be aware that primary adult-onset dystonia can present with an asymmetric resting arm tremor, with impaired arm swing and sometimes also facial hypomimia or a jaw tremor, but without evidence of true akinesia. Given the important consequences of misdiagnosing such patients as PD, in cases with diagnostic uncertainty functional imaging should be considered. Among patients suspected of PD, dystonic tremor may be one cause of SWEDDs (Scans Without Evidence of Dopaminergic Deficit).
The clinical syndrome of pure akinesia has most often been associated with progressive supranuclear palsy (PSP) and is characterized by difficulty initiating gait and &quot;freezing&quot; during walking, writing and speaking. Similar syndromes have been described under the rubrics of primary progressive freezing gait and primary gait ignition failure. We investigated the specificity of the clinical syndrome of pure akinesia with gait freezing (PAGF) for PSP-tau pathology. Among 749 patients archived at the QSBB, only 7 fulfilled proposed diagnostic criteria of: gradual onset of freezing of gait or speech; absent limb rigidity and tremor; no sustained response to levodopa; and no dementia or ophthalmoplegia in the first 5 years of disease. In these cases detailed pathological examination was performed. PSP was the pathological diagnosis in six patients, and Parkinson's disease (PD) in the seventh. As defined, this syndrome had a positive predictive value of 86% for PSP-tau pathology. In the cases with PSP there were no additional features of coexistent vascular or PD and the median PSP-tau score was 3, reflecting relative mild tau load. The clinical syndrome of PAGF appears to have a high specificity for PSP-tau pathology. This relatively uncommon presentation of PSP-tau pathology has less severe tau accumulation than in the more common, &quot;classic&quot; PSP clinical phenotype: Richardson's disease.
Receptive fields of sensory cortical neurons are plastic, changing in response to alterations of neural activity or sensory experience. In this way, cortical representations of the sensory environment can incorporate new information about the world, depending on the relevance or value of particular stimuli. Neuromodulation is required for cortical plasticity, but it is uncertain how subcortical neuromodulatory systems, such as the cholinergic nucleus basalis, interact with and refine cortical circuits. Here we determine the dynamics of synaptic receptive field plasticity in the adult primary auditory cortex (also known as AI) using in vivo whole-cell recording. Pairing sensory stimulation with nucleus basalis activation shifted the preferred stimuli of cortical neurons by inducing a rapid reduction of synaptic inhibition within seconds, which was followed by a large increase in excitation, both specific to the paired stimulus. Although nucleus basalis was stimulated only for a few minutes, reorganization of synaptic tuning curves progressed for hours thereafter: inhibition slowly increased in an activity-dependent manner to rebalance the persistent enhancement of excitation, leading to a retuned receptive field with new preference for the paired stimulus. This restricted period of disinhibition may be a fundamental mechanism for receptive field plasticity, and could serve as a memory trace for stimuli or episodes that have acquired new behavioural significance.
Voltage-sensing domains enable membrane proteins to sense and react to changes in membrane voltage. Although identifiable S1-S4 voltage-sensing domains are found in an array of conventional ion channels and in other membrane proteins that lack pore domains, the extent to which their voltage-sensing mechanisms are conserved is unknown. Here we show that the voltage-sensor paddle, a motif composed of S3b and S4 helices, can drive channel opening with membrane depolarization when transplanted from an archaebacterial voltage-activated potassium channel (KvAP) or voltage-sensing domain proteins (Hv1 and Ci-VSP) into eukaryotic voltage-activated potassium channels. Tarantula toxins that partition into membranes can interact with these paddle motifs at the protein-lipid interface and similarly perturb voltage-sensor activation in both ion channels and proteins with a voltage-sensing domain. Our results show that paddle motifs are modular, that their functions are conserved in voltage sensors, and that they move in the relatively unconstrained environment of the lipid membrane. The widespread targeting of voltage-sensor paddles by toxins demonstrates that this modular structural motif is an important pharmacological target.
Imaging neural generators from MEG magnetic fields is often considered as a compromise between computationally-reasonable methodology that usually yields poor spatial resolution on the one hand, and more sophisticated approaches on the other hand, potentially leading to intractable computational costs. We approach the problem of obtaining well-resolved source images with unexcessive computation load with a multiresolution image model selection (MiMS) technique. The building blocks of the MiMS source model are parcels of the cortical surface which can be designed at multiple spatial resolutions with the combination of anatomical and functional priors. Computation charge is reduced owing to 1) compact parametric models of the activation of extended brain parcels using current multipole expansions and 2) the optimization of the generalized cross-validation error on image models, which is closed-form for the broad class of linear estimators of neural currents. Model selection can be complemented by any conventional imaging approach of neural currents restricted to the optimal image support obtained from MiMS. The estimation of the location and spatial extent of brain activations is discussed and evaluated using extensive Monte-Carlo simulations. An experimental evaluation was conducted with MEG data from a somatotopic paradigm. Results show that MiMS is an efficient image model selection technique with robust performances at realistic noise levels.
As shown in non-human primate and human fMRI studies the probability and magnitude of anticipated rewards modulate activity in the mesolimbic dopaminergic system. Importantly, non-human primate data have revealed that single dopaminergic neurons code for both probability and magnitude of expected reward, suggesting an identical system. Using a guessing task that allowed the independent assessment of the factors probability and magnitude we were able to assess the impact of reward probability and magnitude in ventral striatal subregions in a large sample (n=98). We observed more anterior and lateral peak activation foci in the ventral striatum for reward probability and a more posterior and medial activation peak for reward magnitude, suggesting a functional segregation at the mesoscopic level. Importantly, this functional bias observed for the group average was also tested in each individual subject, allowing for proper random effects inference for the spatial dissociation. Taken together, our data point toward a functional dissociation of neuronal assemblies suggesting that certain populations of neurons are more sensitive to expected reward probability and other populations are more sensitive to reward magnitude.
The present study was aimed to characterize the type of conotoxin present in Conus parvatus. (CP) belongs to family conidae, through neuro-pharmacological activities of the crude venom extract on some of the CNS animal experiment using mice as animal model. The effects of CP on CNS were studied, by using spontaneous motor activity, gross behavior, rota-rod performance, analgesic activity and potentiation of pentobarbitone sleeping time in mice. Preliminary evaluation of acute toxicity was also carried out; The LD50 value was found to be 425.20 mcg kg(-1) by i.p. route. The extract (200 mcg kg(-1) i.p.) was found to produce, reduction in spontaneous motor activity, potent analgesic activity, reduction in motor coordination and prolonged pentobarbitone-sleeping time. From the above all pharmacological activities, it may concluded that, the conotoxin present in CP is most likely to be a alpha-conotoxin and also it will be more suitable to continue the studies in the areas of analgesic and other CNS depressant therapeutic areas after isolation of the pure cono-peptide from CP.
Decision making is guided by the likely consequences of behavioural choices. Neuronal correlates of financial reward have been described in a number of functional imaging studies in humans. Areas implicated in reward include ventral striatum, dopaminergic midbrain, amygdala and orbitofrontal cortex. Response to loss has not been as extensively studied but may involve prefrontal and medial temporal cortices. It has been proposed that increased sensitivity to reward and reduced sensitivity to punishment underlie some of the psychopathology in impulsive personality disordered individuals. However, few imaging studies using reinforcement tasks have been conducted in this group. In this fMRI study, we investigate the effects of positive (monetary reward) and negative (monetary loss) outcomes on BOLD responses in two target selection tasks. The experimental group comprised eight people with Cluster B (antisocial and borderline) personality disorder, whilst the control group contained fourteen healthy participants. A key finding was the absence of prefrontal responses and reduced BOLD signal in the subcortical reward system in the PD group during positive reinforcement. Impulsivity scores correlated negatively with prefrontal responses in the PD but not the control group during both, reward and loss. Our results suggest dysfunctional responses to rewarding and aversive stimuli in Cluster B personality disordered individuals but do not support the notion of hypersensitivity to reward and hyposensitivity to loss.
Working memory (WM) tasks engage a network of brain regions that includes primary, unimodal, and multimodal associative cortices. Little is known, however, about whether task practice influences these types of regions differently. In this experiment, we used event-related fMRI to examine practice-related activation changes in different region types over the course of a scanning session while participants performed a delayed-recognition task. The task contained separate WM processing stages (encoding, maintenance, retrieval) and different materials (object, spatial), which allowed us to investigate the influence of practice on different component processes. We observed significant monotonic decreases, and not increases, in fMRI signal primarily in unimodal and multimodal regions. These decreases occurred during WM encoding and retrieval, but not during maintenance. Finally, regions specific to the type of memoranda (e.g., spatial or object) showed a lesser degree of sensitivity to practice as compared to regions activated by both types of memoranda, suggesting that these regions may be specialized more for carrying out processing within a particular modality than for experience-related flexibility. Overall, these findings indicate that task practice does not have a uniform effect on stages of WM processing, the type of WM memoranda being processed or on different types of brain regions. Instead, regions engaged during WM encoding and retrieval may have greater capacity for functional plasticity than WM maintenance. Additionally, the degree of specialization within brain regions may determine processing efficiency. Unimodal and multimodal regions that participate in both object and spatial processing may be specialized for flexible experience-related change, while those supporting primary sensorimotor processing may operate at optimal efficiency and are less susceptible to practice.
Cannabis is widely abused by women at reproductive age and during pregnancy. Animal studies showed a particular vulnerability of the developing brain to prenatal chronic cannabinoid administration. We determined whether prenatal exposure to WIN 55,212-2, a potent cannabinoid receptor agonist, affected (1) density, affinity and/or function of cannabinoid CB(1) receptors, (2) endogenous levels of the endocannabinoid anandamide, (3) activities of the major anandamide synthesising and hydrolysing enzymes, N-acyl-phosphatidylethanolamine-specific phospholipase D (NAPE-PLD) and fatty acid amide hydrolase (FAAH), respectively, in brain areas of adult male offspring rats. Furthermore, the effect of prenatal WIN 55,212-2 on spontaneous motility was analyzed. Pregnant rats were treated daily with WIN 55,212-2 (0.5 mg/kg, gestation day 5-20) or vehicle. [(3)H]CP 55,940 and WIN 55,212-2-stimulated [(35)S] GTPgammaS binding were carried out in cerebellum, cerebral cortex, hippocampus, striatum and limbic areas of male adult offspring. Levels of anandamide, FAAH and NAPE-PLD activity were also determined. EC(50) values for WIN 55,212-2-stimulated [(35)S]GTPgammaS binding were significantly different in hippocampus (-26%) and striatum (+27%) in WIN 55,212-2-treated rats. Cannabinoid CB(1) receptor density and affinity were not affected in any analyzed region. In the striatum, increased anandamide levels were associated with reduced FAAH and enhanced NAPE-PLD activities. Opposite changes in anandamide levels and enzymatic activities were detected in limbic areas of WIN 55,212-2-treated rats. Ambulatory activity between WIN 55,212-2- and vehicle-treated adult offspring did not vary. Our results show that prenatal exposure to cannabinoid agonist induces a long-term alteration of endocannabinoid system in brain areas involved in learning-memory, motor activity and emotional behavior.
Here, we show that alpha(1)-adrenoceptor agonists suppress stress-induced death of mouse embryonic brain-derived neural progenitor cells (NPCs). NPCs highly expressed both alpha(1A)- and alpha(1B)-adrenoceptor genes, whereas the gene encoding alpha(1D)-adrenoceptor was expressed at low levels. Application of the alpha(1)-adrenoceptor agonists phenylephrine and cirazoline significantly promoted cell survival of embryonic NPCs that had been exposed to stress, as measured by a lactate dehydrogenase release assay, but had no remarkable effect on differentiation of the NPCs. Both phenylephrine and cirazoline protected NPCs from death induced by growth factor deprivation, N2 nutrient deprivation, tunicamycin treatment or staurosporine treatment. Phenylephrine and cirazoline treatments both maximally reduced stress-induced cell death by approximately 60% but did not change the percentage of undifferentiated cells as measured by nestin staining. Moreover, phenylephrine and cirazoline treatments did not affect the cellular activities of caspase-3 and caspase-7 but markedly reduced propidium iodide penetration into the cytoplasm, suggesting that alpha(1)-adrenoceptor agonists inhibit caspase-3/7-independent death of the embryonic NPCs.
Cocaine-paired stimuli can suppress food-reinforced operant behavior in rats, providing an animal model of conditioned drug effects. To study the neuropharmacological basis of this phenomenon, we examined the effects of various dopamine receptor antagonists on the acquisition and expression of cocaine-induced conditioned suppression in rats. Superimposed on an ongoing baseline of food-reinforced operant responding, a stimulus was paired with response-independent cocaine (3.0 mg/kg, i.v.) during each of 8 training sessions. To study acquisition, independent groups of rats were given saline, the dopamine D(1)-like receptor antagonist R(+)-7-chloro-8-hydroxy-3-methyl-1-phenyl-2,3,4,5-tetrahydro-1H-3-benzazepine hydrochloride (SCH 23390) (0.001-0.03 mg/kg, i.p.), or the dopamine D(2)-like receptor antagonist eticlopride (0.001-0.03 mg/kg, i.p.) prior to each training session. To study expression, independent groups of rats were trained first, then given saline, SCH 23390, eticlopride, or N-[4-(4-(2-methoxyphenyl)piperazinyl)butyl]-2-naphthamide (BP 897) (a dopamine D(3) partial receptor agonist; 0.1-1.0 mg/kg, i.p.) before test sessions in which the stimulus was presented without cocaine. Pre-treatment with either SCH 23390 or eticlopride during acquisition reduced the direct suppressant effects of cocaine, but conditioning was blocked only in rats that were treated with SCH 23390 during acquisition training. Expression of conditioning was attenuated only by eticlopride. Thus, dopamine at least partially mediates both the acquisition and expression of cocaine-induced conditioned suppression, with activation of dopamine D(1)- and D(2)-like receptors underlying these respective processes.
The extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK)/MAPK (mitogen-activated protein kinase) cascade has been established as a potent regulator of gene transcription in long-term memory formation, but the precise mechanisms of this regulation are poorly understood. ERK does not directly affect many of its nuclear targets, but rather must act through intermediary kinases. In this study, we investigated the role of mitogen- and stress-activated protein kinase 1 (MSK1), a nuclear kinase downstream of ERK, in chromatin remodeling during hippocampus-dependent memory formation. Mice lacking MSK1 show impaired Pavlovian fear conditioning and spatial learning, as well as a deficiency in histone phosphorylation and acetylation in the hippocampus after fear training. In addition, hippocampal slices from MSK1 knock-out mice exhibit a deficiency in both histone phosphorylation and acetylation after activation of the ERK pathway in vitro. In vivo injections of a histone deacetylase inhibitor, sodium butyrate, fail to alleviate the fear conditioning deficit in MSK1 knock-out mice. Finally, MSK1 knock-out mice demonstrate a deficiency in cAMP response element-binding protein (CREB) phosphorylation after fear training, which persists after sodium butyrate injection. This suggests that CREB phosphorylation and histone acetylation represent parallel targets of MSK1 function. Our study identifies MSK1 as an important regulator of chromatin remodeling in long-term memory.
The myelin basic protein (MBP) gene encodes two families of proteins: the classic MBP constituents of myelin and the golli-MBPs, the function of which is less well understood. Previous work suggests that golli proteins may play a role in Ca2+ homeostasis in oligodendrocytes (OLs) and in T-cells. Overexpression of golli in OL cell lines induces elaboration of sheets and processes. Live imaging of these cells revealed a rapid retraction of the processes and sheets after depolarization with high K+. This phenomenon was associated with a significant increase in [Ca2+]int without changes in cell viability. The results indicated that golli produced its effect through Ca2+ influx, rather than Ca2+ release from intracellular stores. Furthermore, a specific [Ca2+]int chelator (BAPTA) or Cd2+, a specific blocker of voltage-operated Ca2+ channels, abolished the ability of golli to promote process extension in a dose-dependent manner. Analysis of the golli protein identified a myristoylation site at the C terminus of the golli domain, which was essential for the action of golli on Ca2+ influx, suggesting that binding of golli to the plasma membrane is important for modulating Ca2+ homeostasis. High-resolution spatiotemporal analysis along N19 processes revealed higher-amplitude local Ca2+ influx in regions with elevated levels of golli. These findings suggest a key role for golli proteins in regulating voltage-gated Ca2+ channels in OLs during process remodeling. Our observations are consistent with the hypothesis that golli proteins, as a part of a protein complex, modulate Ca2+ influx at the plasma membrane and along OL processes.
A sound that is interrupted by silence is perceived as discontinuous. However, when the silence is replaced by noise, the target sound may be heard as uninterrupted. Understanding the neural basis of this continuity illusion may elucidate the ability to track sounds of interest in noisy auditory scenes, but yet little is known. In the present functional magnetic resonance imaging study in humans we report that activity in primary auditory cortex reflects perceived continuity of illusory tones in noise. Exploiting a parametric manipulation of the illusory stimuli, we show that stimulus-evoked activity does not correlate with the basic acoustic properties of tones or noises, but rather with the abstract dependencies among them. Importantly, changes of neural responses to acoustically identical stimuli parallel changes of listeners' report of perceived continuity of these same stimuli, thus confirming the perceptual nature of these responses. Our findings show that, beyond the sensory representation of an auditory scene, primary auditory areas play a constructive role in the grouping of scene segments into unified auditory percepts.
Retrograde signaling by endocannabinoids is known to induce short- and long-term synaptic plasticity, but the significance of this modulation for the activity of neural networks underlying motor behavior is largely unclear. Here, we used the isolated lamprey spinal cord to show that endocannabinoids released by activation of metabotropic glutamate receptor 1 (mGluR1) induce long-term synaptic plasticity during an ongoing locomotor rhythm and how this is translated onto the integrated activity of the spinal circuitry. A brief activation of mGluR1 induces a long-term increase in the locomotor frequency that is mediated by a concomitant long-term depression of midcycle reciprocal inhibition and long-term potentiation of ipsilateral synaptic excitation arising from locomotor circuit interneurons. Blockade of cannabinoid receptors with AM251 prevented the mGluR1-mediated long-term plasticity of both inhibitory and excitatory synaptic transmission, as well as that of the locomotor activity. Similarly, inhibition of nitric oxide signaling blocked the mGluR1-mediated long-term plasticity. These results show that the locomotor circuitry is endowed with a &quot;memory&quot; capacity mediated by a long-term shift in the balance between synaptic inhibition and excitation. This is triggered by activation of mGluR1 and requires subsequent endocannabinoid and nitric oxide signaling.
In humans, exposure to environmental contexts previously associated with heroin intake can provoke drug relapse, but the neuronal mechanisms mediating this relapse are unknown. Using a drug relapse model, we found previously that reexposing rats to heroin-associated contexts, after extinction of drug-reinforced responding in different contexts, reinstates heroin seeking. This effect is attenuated by inhibition of glutamate transmission in the ventral tegmental area and medial accumbens shell, components of the mesolimbic dopamine system. Here, we explored the role of dopamine of the accumbens in context-induced reinstatement by using the D1-family receptor antagonist SCH 23390 [R(+)-7-chloro-8-hydroxy-3-methyl-1-phenyl-2,3,4,5-tetrahydro-1H-3-benzazepine hydrochloride]. Rats were trained to self-administer heroin for 12 d; drug infusions were paired with a discrete tone-light cue. Subsequently, the heroin-reinforced lever pressing was extinguished in the presence of the discrete cue in a context that differed from the drug self-administration context in terms of visual, auditory, tactile, and circadian cues. When tested in the original drug self-administration context, systemic and medial or lateral accumbens shell SCH 23390 injections attenuated context-induced reinstatement of heroin seeking, whereas accumbens core SCH 23390 injections were ineffective. In contrast, core but not lateral or medial shell SCH 23390 injections attenuated discrete-cue-induced reinstatement in a nondrug context after extinction of lever presses without this cue. Results indicate that activation of medial and lateral accumbens shell D1-family dopamine receptors mediate context-induced reinstatement of heroin seeking and provide the first demonstration for a role of lateral shell dopamine in conditioned drug effects. Results also demonstrate novel dissociable roles of accumbens core and shell in context- versus discrete-cue-induced reinstatement of heroin seeking.
Dorsal stream visual processing is generally considered to underlie visually driven action, but when subjects grasp an object from memory, as visual information is not available, ventral stream characteristics emerge. In this study we use paired-pulse transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) to investigate the importance of the current visual input during visuomotor grasp. Previously, the amplitude of the paired-pulse motor evoked potentials (MEPs) in hand muscles before movement onset have been shown to predict the subsequent pattern of muscle activity during grasp. Specific facilitation of paired-pulse MEPs may reflect premotor-motor (PMC-M1) cortex connectivity. Here we investigate the paired-pulse MEPs evoked under memory-cued and visually driven conditions before grasping one of two possible target objects (a handle or a disc). All trials began with a delay period of 1200 ms. Then, a TMS pulse served as the cue to reach, grasp and hold the target object for 0.5 s. Total trial length was 5 s. Both objects were continually visible in both conditions, but the way in which the target object was designated differed between conditions. In the memory-cued condition, the target object was illuminated for the first 200 ms of the trial only. In the visually driven condition, the target object was illuminated throughout the 5 s trial. Thus, the conditions differed in whether or not the object to be grasped was designated at the time of movement initiation. We found that the pattern of paired-pulse MEP facilitation matched the pattern of object-specific muscle activity only for the visually driven condition. The results suggest that PMC-M1 connectivity contributes to action selection only when immediate sensory information specifies which action to make.
High-frequency deep-brain stimulation (DBS) of the nucleus accumbens (NAc) region is an effective therapeutic avenue for patients with treatment-resistant obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD). Imaging studies suggest that DBS acts by suppressing the aberrant metabolism in the orbitofrontal cortex (OFC) that is a hallmark of OCD; however, little is known about the mechanisms by which this occurs. We examined the effects of 30 min NAc DBS at 130 Hz on spontaneously active OFC neurons and local field potentials (LFPs) in addition to evoked responses elicited by single-pulse stimulation of the NAc or mediodorsal thalamus (MD) in urethane-anesthetized rats. NAc DBS reduced the mean firing rate of OFC neurons, although neurons receiving monosynaptic input from MD were less affected and some putative interneurons were excited by DBS. Single-pulse stimulation of the NAc produced a robust inhibition in OFC neurons that was attenuated after DBS, whereas excitatory responses were unchanged. In contrast, after DBS inhibitory responses evoked from MD were unchanged, whereas excitatory responses were enhanced. NAc-evoked LFP responses were potentiated after DBS, whereas MD-evoked LFP responses were unchanged. NAc DBS also enhanced OFC spontaneous LFP oscillatory activity in the slow (0.5-4 Hz) frequency band. These results suggest that DBS of the NAc region may alleviate OCD symptoms by reducing activity in subsets of OFC neurons, potentially by driving recurrent inhibition though antidromic activation of corticostriatal axon collaterals. Moreover, selective potentiation of input to these inhibitory circuits may also contribute to the therapeutic effects produced by DBS in OCD patients.
Cerebral cortical development involves complex changes in cellular architecture and connectivity that occur at regionally varying rates. Using diffusion tensor magnetic resonance imaging (DTI) to analyze cortical microstructure, previous studies have shown that cortical maturation is associated with a progressive decline in water diffusion anisotropy. We applied high-resolution DTI to fixed postmortem fetal baboon brains and characterized regional changes in diffusion anisotropy using surface-based visualization methods. Anisotropy values vary within the thickness of the cortical sheet, being higher in superficial layers. At a regional level, anisotropy at embryonic day 90 (E90; 0.5 term; gestation lasts 185 d in this species) is low in allocortical and periallocortical regions near the frontotemporal junction and is uniformly high throughout isocortex. At E125 (0.66 term), regions having relatively low anisotropy (greater maturity) include cortex in and near the Sylvian fissure and the precentral gyrus. By E146 (0.8 term), cortical anisotropy values are uniformly low and show less regional variation. Expansion of cortical surface area does not occur uniformly in all regions. Measured using surface-based methods, cortical expansion over E125-E146 was larger in parietal, medial occipital, and lateral frontal regions than in inferior temporal, lateral occipital, and orbitofrontal regions. However, the overall correlation between the degree of cortical expansion and cortical anisotropy is modest. These results extend our understanding of cortical development revealed by histologic methods. The approach presented here can be applied in vivo to the study of normal brain development and its disruption in human infants and experimental animal models.
Whereas recent studies have elucidated principles for representation of information within the entorhinal cortex, less is known about the molecular basis for information processing by entorhinal neurons. The HCN1 gene encodes ion channels that mediate hyperpolarization-activated currents (I(h)) that control synaptic integration and influence several forms of learning and memory. We asked whether hyperpolarization-activated, cation nonselective 1 (HCN1) channels control processing of information by stellate cells found within layer II of the entorhinal cortex. Axonal projections from these neurons form a major component of the synaptic input to the dentate gyrus of the hippocampus. To determine whether HCN1 channels control either the resting or the active properties of stellate neurons, we performed whole-cell recordings in horizontal brain slices prepared from adult wild-type and HCN1 knock-out mice. We found that HCN1 channels are required for rapid and full activation of hyperpolarization-activated currents in stellate neurons. HCN1 channels dominate the membrane conductance at rest, are not required for theta frequency (4-12 Hz) membrane potential fluctuations, but suppress low-frequency (&lt;4 Hz) components of spontaneous and evoked membrane potential activity. During sustained activation of stellate cells sufficient for firing of repeated action potentials, HCN1 channels control the pattern of spike output by promoting recovery of the spike afterhyperpolarization. These data suggest that HCN1 channels expressed by stellate neurons in layer II of the entorhinal cortex are key molecular components in the processing of inputs to the hippocampal dentate gyrus, with distinct integrative roles during resting and active states.


The existence of recurrent synaptic connections in CA3 led to the hypothesis that CA3 is an autoassociative network similar to the Hopfield networks studied by theorists. CA3 undergoes gamma frequency periodic inhibition that prevents a persistent attractor state. This argues against the analogy to Hopfield nets, in which an attractor state can be used for working memory. However, we show that such periodic inhibition allows one cycle of recurrent excitatory activity and that this is sufficient for memory retrieval (within milliseconds). Thus, gamma oscillations are compatible with a long-term autoassociative memory function for CA3. A second goal of our work was to evaluate previous methods for estimating the memory capacity (P) of CA3. We confirm the equation, P = c/a(2), where c is the probability that any two cells are recurrently connected and a is the fraction of cells representing a memory item. In applying this to CA3, we focus on CA3a, the subregion where recurrent connections are most numerous (c = 0.2) and approximate randomness. We estimate that a memory item is represented by approximately 225 of the 70,000 neurons in CA3a (a = 0.003) and that approximately 20,000 memory items can be stored. Our general conclusion is that the physiological and anatomical findings of CA3a are consistent with an autoassociative function. The nature of the information that is associated in CA3a is discussed. We also discuss how the autoassociative properties of CA3 and the heteroassociative properties of dentate synapses (linking sequential memories) form an integrated system for the storage and recall of item sequences. The recall process generates the phase precession in dentate, CA3, and entorhinal cortex.
Many memory models focus on encoding of sequences by excitatory recurrent synapses in region CA3 of the hippocampus. However, data and modeling suggest an alternate mechanism for encoding of sequences in which interference between theta frequency oscillations encodes the position within a sequence based on spatial arc length or time. Arc length can be coded by an oscillatory interference model that accounts for many features of the context-dependent firing properties of hippocampal neurons observed during performance of spatial memory tasks. In continuous spatial alternation, many neurons fire selectively depending on the direction of prior or future response (left or right). In contrast, in delayed non-match to position, most neurons fire selectively for task phase (sample vs. choice), with less selectivity for left versus right. These seemingly disparate results are effectively simulated by the same model, based on mechanisms similar to a model of grid cell firing in entorhinal cortex. The model also simulates forward shifting of firing over trials. Adding effects of persistent firing with reset at reward locations addresses changes in context-dependent firing with different task designs. Arc length coding could contribute to episodic encoding of trajectories as sequences of states and actions.
The hippocampal CA3 subregion is critical for rapidly encoding new memories, which suggests that neuronal computations are implemented in its circuitry that cannot be performed elsewhere in the hippocampus or in the neocortex. Recording studies show that CA3 cells are bound to a large degree to a spatial coordinate system, while CA1 cells can become more independent of a map-based mechanism and allow for a larger degree of arbitrary associations, also in the temporal domain. The mapping of CA3 onto a spatial coordinate system intuitively points to its role in spatial navigation but does not directly suggest how such a mechanism may support memory processing. Although bound to spatial coordinates, the CA3 network can rapidly alter its firing rate in response to novel sensory inputs and is thus not as strictly tied to spatial mapping as grid cells in the medial entorhinal cortex. Such rate coding within an otherwise stable spatial map can immediately incorporate new sensory inputs into the two-dimensional matrix of CA3, where they can be integrated with already stored information about each place. CA3 cell ensembles may thus support the fast acquisition of detailed memories by providing a locally continuous, but globally orthogonal representation, which can rapidly provide a new neuronal index when information is encountered for the first time. This information can be interpreted in CA1 and other downstream cortical areas in the context of less spatially restricted information.
Comparative neuroanatomy suggests that the CA3 region of the mammalian hippocampus is directly homologous with the medio-dorsal pallium in birds and reptiles, with which it largely shares the basic organization of primitive cortex. Autoassociative memory models, which are generically applicable to cortical networks, then help assess how well CA3 may process information and what the crucial hurdles are that it may face. The analysis of such models points at spatial memories as posing a special challenge, both in terms of the attractor dynamics they can induce and how they may be established. Addressing such a challenge may have favored the evolution of elements of hippocampal organization observed only in mammals.
Within the framework of a special issue on CA3, it was deemed relevant to summarize what is known about the extrinsic and intrinsic wiring of CA3 as a basis for other contributions. Here, I have aimed to update already existing excellent reviews on the subject and to raise the issue whether or not the known architecture of the field supports the generally accepted notion that CA3 is particularly wired to function as an autoassociative network. The data reviewed strongly support this notion but in addition point to connectional heterogeneities that may point to functional specializations in CA3, on top of its role as an autoassociative network uniquely relevant to efficient encoding and recall of information.
The Notch signaling pathway is critically involved in cell fate decisions during development of many tissues and organs. In the present study we employed in vivo and cell culture models to elucidate the role of Notch signaling in wound healing. The healing of full-thickness dermal wounds was significantly delayed in Notch antisense transgenic mice and in normal mice treated with gamma-secretase inhibitors that block proteolytic cleavage and activation of Notch. In contrast, mice treated with a Notch ligand Jagged peptide showed significantly enhanced wound healing compared to controls. Activation or inhibition of Notch signaling altered the behaviors of cultured vascular endothelial cells, keratinocytes and fibroblasts in a scratch wound healing model in ways consistent with roles for Notch signaling in wound healing functions all three cell types. These results suggest that Notch signaling plays important roles in wound healing and tissue repair, and that targeting the Notch pathway might provide a novel strategy for treatment of wounds and for modulation of angiogenesis in other pathological conditions.
Inwardly rectifying potassium (Kir) channels form gates in the cell membrane that regulate the flow of K(+) ions into and out of the cell, thereby influencing the membrane potential and electrical signaling of many cell types, including neurons and cardiomyocytes. Kir-channel function depends on other cellular proteins that aid in the folding of channel subunits, assembly into tetrameric complexes, trafficking of quality-controlled channels to the plasma membrane, and regulation of channel activity at the cell surface. We used the yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae as a model system to identify proteins necessary for the functional expression of a mammalian Kir channel at the cell surface. A screen of 376 yeast strains, each lacking one nonessential protein localized to the early secretory pathway, identified seven deletion strains in which functional expression of the Kir channel at the plasma membrane was impaired. Six deletions were of genes with known functions in trafficking and lipid biosynthesis (sur4Delta, csg2Delta, erv14Delta, emp24Delta, erv25Delta, and bst1Delta), and one deletion was of an uncharacterized gene (yil039wDelta). We provide genetic and functional evidence that Yil039wp, a conserved, phosphoesterase domain-containing protein, which we named &quot;trafficking of Emp24p/Erv25p-dependent cargo disrupted 1&quot; (Ted1p), acts together with Emp24p/Erv25p in cargo exit from the endoplasmic reticulum (ER). The seven yeast proteins identified in our screen likely impact Kir-channel functional expression at the level of vesicle budding from the ER and/or the local lipid environment at the plasma membrane.


We created transgenic mice that overexpress WT androgen receptor (AR) exclusively in their skeletal muscle fibers. Unexpectedly, these mice display androgen-dependent muscle weakness and early death, show changes in muscle morphology and gene expression consistent with neurogenic atrophy, and exhibit a loss of motor axons. These features reproduce those seen in models of Kennedy disease, a polyglutamine expansion disorder caused by a CAG repeat expansion in the AR gene. These findings demonstrate that toxicity in skeletal muscles is sufficient to cause motoneuron disease and indicate that overexpression of the WT AR can exert toxicity comparable with the polyglutamine expanded protein. This model has two clear implications for Kennedy disease: (i) mechanisms affecting AR gene expression may cause neuromuscular symptoms similar to those of Kennedy disease and (ii) therapeutic approaches targeting skeletal muscle may provide effective treatments for this disease.

Growth/differentiation factor 5 (GDF5) is a member of the transforming growth factor-beta (TGF-beta) superfamily that has potent neurotrophic and protective effects on dopaminergic neurones and is expressed in the developing rat substantia nigra (the ventral mesencephalon; VM). GDF5 has the potential to be used in the treatment of Parkinson's disease (PD), a neurodegenerative disorder characterised by the selective degeneration of nigrostriatal dopaminergic neurones. One therapy being explored for PD involves transplantation of fetal VM tissue into the striatum in order to replace lost dopaminergic neurones. The majority of transplantation studies have used transplants incorporating the whole VM. The principal location of dopaminergic neurones in the E14 rat VM is in the medial VM. In the present study, the effects of GDF5 on cultures prepared from medial, lateral and whole E14 rat VM tissue were compared. GDF5 treatment increased the number of dopaminergic neurones in whole and lateral, but not in medial, VM cultures, whereas it increased total cell number in medial, but not in whole or lateral, VM cultures. RT-PCR studies showed that the receptors for GDF5 were differentially expressed in E14 VM; the expression of BMPR-IB and Ror2 was low in medial but high in lateral VM tissue. This study suggests that GDF5 increases the number of dopaminergic neurones in whole VM cultures by acting on BMPR-IB and Ror2-expressing cells in the lateral VM.
In male rats, estradiol (E(2)) exerts marked anorectic effects. One mechanism proposed for this effect is an E(2)-mediated down-regulation of the orexigenic neuropeptide melanin concentrating hormone (MCH). Previous anatomical work has shown that both MCH and estrogen receptor alpha (ERalpha) are found in quantity in the lateral hypothalamic area (LHA), a structure long associated with appetite and ingestive behavior. It has been hypothesized that the most direct manner by which E(2) could affect MCH expression and feeding would be via classical nuclear ERalpha located in MCH neurons. To evaluate this notion, we performed double-label immunohistochemistry for MCH and ERalpha in male rat hypothalamus. We report here that MCH neurons do not contain ERalpha, suggesting that the primary locus for estrogenic control of feeding is not the MCH neurons themselves. Rather, we show substantial overlap in the anatomical distribution of both cell types, raising the possibility that E(2) influences MCH signaling indirectly via adjacent ERalpha-containing cells.
Although the main nodes of the neuronal network that regulate paradoxical sleep (PS), also called rapid eye movement sleep, have been identified in rodents, it still needs to be more thoroughly described. We have recently shown that 58% of a hypothalamic neuronal population, the melanin-concentrating hormone (MCH) neurons, are activated after a PS hypersomnia and that MCH, when injected intracerebroventricularly, induces a dose-dependent increase in PS. This suggests that MCH plays a role in PS regulation. Two subpopulations of MCH neurons have been distinguished neurochemically, one that coexpresses cocaine and amphetamine-regulated transcript (CART) and sends ascending projections to the septum and the hippocampus, the other, the non-CART MCH neurons, send descending projections to the lower brainstem and the spinal cord. In order to better characterize the PS-activated MCH neurons it is interesting to determine whether they belong to the first, the second, or both subgroups. We therefore undertook an MCH, CART, and Fos triple immunolabeling study in PS hypersomniac rats. We showed that the MCH neurons activated during PS are part of both subpopulations since we found CART and non-CART MCH-activated neurons. Based on these results and the literature, we propose that MCH could be involved in memory processes and in the inhibition of muscle tone during PS.
While investigating the effects of weak complex magnetic fields upon neuroplasticity following induction of early epilepsy, an unprecedented increase in post-seizure mortality (76%) was observed for young rats that had been exposed perinatally to 7 Hz magnetic fields with maximum intensities around 5 nT. Pups exposed to less intense or more intense fields of this frequency did not display this magnitude of significant mortality. Perinatal exposure through the maternal water supply to either a putative nitric oxide donor or inhibitor did not affect this mortality. The non-linear relationship between perinatal 7 Hz magnetic field intensity and post-seizure mortality may be considered analogous to the non-linear relationship between the molarity of ligands and their sequestering to receptor subtypes. These unexpected results suggest that exposure to apparently innocuous stimuli during early development may affect vulnerability to stimuli presented later in ontogeny.

The hyperpolarization-activated cation current, I(h), plays an important role in regulating intrinsic neuronal excitability in the brain. In hippocampal pyramidal neurons, I(h) is mediated by h channels comprised primarily of the hyperpolarization-activated cyclic nucleotide-gated (HCN) channel subunits, HCN1 and HCN2. Pyramidal neuron h channels within hippocampal area CA1 are remarkably enriched in distal apical dendrites, and this unique distribution pattern is critical for regulating dendritic excitability. We utilized biochemical and immunohistochemical approaches in organotypic slice cultures to explore factors that control h channel localization in dendrites. We found that distal dendritic enrichment of HCN1 is first detectable at postnatal day 13, reaching maximal enrichment by the 3rd postnatal week. Interestingly we found that an intact entorhinal cortex, which projects to distal dendrites of CA1 but not area CA3, is critical for the establishment and maintenance of distal dendritic enrichment of HCN1. Moreover blockade of excitatory neurotransmission using tetrodotoxin, 6-cyano-7-nitroquinoxaline-2,3-dione, or 2-aminophosphonovalerate redistributed HCN1 evenly throughout the dendrite without significant changes in protein expression levels. Inhibition of calcium/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II activity, but not p38 MAPK, also redistributed HCN1 in CA1 pyramidal neurons. We conclude that activation of ionotropic glutamate receptors by excitatory temporoammonic pathway projections from the entorhinal cortex establishes and maintains the distribution pattern of HCN1 in CA1 pyramidal neuron dendrites by activating calcium/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II-mediated downstream signals.
The increase in excitatory outflow from the medial prefrontal cortex is critical to the development of sensitization to amphetamine. There is evidence that psychostimulant-induced changes in dopamine-GABA interactions are key to understanding the behaviorally sensitized response. The objective of this study was to characterize the effects of different amphetamine paradigms on the Fos activation of GABAergic interneurons that contain parvalbumin in the medial prefrontal cortex. Although a sensitizing, repeated regimen of amphetamine induced Fos in all cortical layers, only layer V parvalbumin-immunolabeled cells were activated in the infralimbic and prelimbic cortices. Repeated amphetamine treatment was also associated with a loss of parvalbumin immunoreactivity in layer V, but only in the prelimbic cortex. An acute amphetamine injection to naive rats was associated with an increase in Fos, but in parvalbumin-positive neurons of the prelimbic cortex, where it was preferentially induced in layer III. These data indicate that distinct substrates mediate the response to repeated or acute amphetamine treatment. They also suggest that a sensitizing amphetamine regimen directs medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC) outflow, via changes in inhibitory neuron activation, toward subcortical centers important in reward.
Craniofacial muscle pain including muscular temporomandibular disorders accounts for a substantial portion of all pain perceived in the head and neck region. In spite of its high clinical prevalence, the mechanisms of chronic craniofacial muscle pain are not well understood. Injection of acidic saline into rodent hindlimb muscles produces pathologies which resemble muscular pathologies in chronic pain patients. Here we investigated whether analogous transformations occur following repeated injections of acidic saline into the rat masseter muscle. Injection of acidic saline (pH 4) into the masseter muscle transiently lowered i.m. pH to levels comparable to those reported for rodent hindlimb muscles. Nevertheless, repeated unilateral or bilateral injections of acidic saline (pH 4) into the masseter muscle failed to alter nociceptive behavioral responses as occurs in the hindlimb. Changing the pH of injected saline to pH 3.0 or 5.0 also did not evoke nocifensive behavior. Acid sensing ion channel 3 receptors, which are implicated in transformations following acidification of hindlimb muscles, were found on trigeminal ganglion muscle afferent neurons via combined neuronal tracing and immunocytochemistry. In contrast to the acidic saline, injection of complete Freund's adjuvant (CFA) into the masseter muscle induced mechanical allodynia for 3 weeks, thermal hyperalgesia for 1 week and an increase in the number of calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP)-immunoreactive muscle afferent neurons in the trigeminal ganglion. Although pH may alter CGRP release in primary afferent neurons, the number of CGRP-muscle afferent neurons did not change following i.m. injection of acidic saline. Further, there was no change in ganglionic iCGRP levels at 1, 4 or 12 days after i.m. injection of acidic saline. While these findings extend our earlier reports that CFA-induced muscle inflammation results in behavioral and neuropeptide changes they further suggest that i.m. acidification in craniofacial muscle evokes different responses than in hindlimb muscle and imply that disparate proton sensing mechanisms underlie these discrepancies.
The corticopetal basal forebrain cholinergic system (BFCS) is crucial for normal attentional function and cortical acetylcholine release is increased by stimuli with high motivational salience. Projections from the lateral hypothalamus to the basal forebrain have been previously described and have been hypothesized to relay interoceptive information to this area but little is known about the phenotypic and functional nature of hypothalamic modulation of the BFCS. We have previously shown that orexin (hypocretin) fibers from the hypothalamus distribute densely among basal forebrain choline acetyltransferase-positive neurons and that intrabasalis administration of orexin A increases cortical acetylcholine release. Here, we used in vivo microdialysis to test the hypothesis that the orexin system is necessary for activation of the BFCS in response to a food-related stimulus in food-restricted rats. Elimination of the majority of orexin neurons with the toxin orexin B-saporin significantly blunted the cholinergic response to presentation of palatable food in these animals. Similar effects were seen in animals acutely pretreated with the orexin 1 receptor antagonist, SB-334867, which also increased feeding latency. Collectively, these data suggest that orexin interactions with the BFCS may be a critical component of the neurobiological substrates by which interoceptive cues bias the allocation of attentional resources toward exteroceptive stimuli related to homeostatic challenges.
Clinical observations of viscerovisceral referred pain in patients with gastrointestinal and genitourinary disorders suggest an overlap of neurohumoral mechanisms underlying both bowel and urinary bladder dysfunctions. Close proximity of visceral organs within the abdominal cavity complicates identification of the exact source of chronic pelvic pain, where it originates, and how it relocates with time. Cross-sensitization among pelvic structures may contribute to chronic pelvic pain of unknown etiology and involves convergent neural pathways of noxious stimulus transmission from two or more organs. Convergence of sensory information from discrete pelvic structures occurs at different levels of nervous system hierarchy including dorsal root ganglia, the spinal cord and the brain. The cell bodies of sensory neurons projecting to the colon, urinary bladder and male/female reproductive organs express a wide range of membrane receptors and synthesize many neurotransmitters and regulatory peptides. These substances are released from nerve terminals following enhanced neuronal excitability and may lead to the occurrence of neurogenic inflammation in the pelvis. Multiple factors including inflammation, nerve injury, ischemia, peripheral hyperalgesia, metabolic disorders and other pathological conditions dramatically alter the function of directly affected pelvic structures as well as organs located next to a damaged domain. Defining precise mechanisms of viscerovisceral cross-sensitization would have implications for the development of effective pharmacological therapies for the treatment of functional disorders with chronic pelvic pain such as irritable bowel syndrome and painful bladder syndrome. The complexity of overlapping neural pathways and possible mechanisms underlying pelvic organ crosstalk are analyzed in this review at both systemic and cellular levels.
The mesotelencephalic dopamine system shows substantial genetic variation which fundamentally affects normal and pathological behaviors related to motor function, motivation, and learning. Our earlier radioenzyme assay studies demonstrated significantly higher activity of tyrosine hydroxylase (TH), the first and rate limiting enzyme in the biosynthesis of catecholamine neurotransmitters, in the substantia nigra-ventral tegmental area of BALB/cJ mice in comparison with that of C57BL/6ByJ mice. Here, using quantitative immunoblotting and immunocytochemistry, we tested the hypothesis that mesencephalic TH protein content and number of nigral TH-positive neurons show strain-dependent differences in C57BL/6ByJ and BALB/cJ parallel to those observed in the TH activity studies. Immunoblotting experiments detected significantly higher mesencephalic TH protein content in BALB/cJ in comparison to C57BL/6ByJ (P&lt;0.05). Immunocytochemical studies demonstrated that the number of TH-positive cells in substantia nigra was 31.3% higher in BALB/cJ than that in C57BL/6ByJ (P&lt;0.01), while the average dopamine neuron volume was not significantly different. In a search for candidate genes that modulate TH content and the size of mesencephalic dopamine neuron populations we also studied near-isogenic mouse sublines derived from the C57BL/6ByJ and BALB/cJ progenitor strains. A whole-genome scan with 768 single nucleotide polymorphism markers indicated that two sublines, C4A6/N and C4A6/B, were genetically very similar (98.3%). We found significantly higher mesencephalic TH protein content in C4A6/B in comparison to C4A6/N (P=0.01), and a tendency for higher number of dopamine neurons in the substantia nigra in C4A6/B in comparison to C4A6/N, which, however, did not reach statistical significance. To identify the genetic source of the TH content difference we analyzed the single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) genotype data of the whole-genome scan, and detected two small differential chromosome segments on chr. 13 and chr. 14. Microarray gene expression studies and bioinformatic analysis of the two differential regions implicated two cis-regulated genes (Spock1 and Cxcl14, chr. 13), and two growth factor genes [bone morphogenetic protein 6 (Bmp6) (chr. 13), and fibroblast growth factor 14 (Fgf14) (chr. 14)]. Taken together, the results suggest that (1) nigral dopamine neuron number and TH protein content may be genetically associated but further studies are needed to establish unequivocally this linkage, and (2) Spock1, Cxcl14, Bmp6, and Fgf14 are novel candidates for modulating the expression and maintenance of TH content in mesencephalic dopamine neurons in vivo.
We recently discovered that human activity possesses a complex temporal organization characterized by scale-invariant/self-similar fluctuations from seconds to approximately 4 h-(statistical properties of fluctuations remain the same at different time scales). Here, we show that scale-invariant activity patterns are essentially identical in humans and rats, and exist for up to approximately 24 h: six-times longer than previously reported. Theoretically, such scale-invariant patterns can be produced by a neural network of interacting control nodes-system components with feedback loops-operating at different time scales. However such control nodes have not yet been identified in any neurophysiological model of scale invariance/self-similarity in mammals. Here we demonstrate that the endogenous circadian pacemaker (suprachiasmatic nucleus; SCN), known to modulate locomotor activity with a periodicity of approximately 24 h, also acts as a major neural control node responsible for the generation of scale-invariant locomotor patterns over a broad range of time scales from minutes to at least 24 h (rather than solely at approximately 24 h). Remarkably, we found that SCN lesion in rats completely abolished the scale-invariant locomotor patterns between 4 and 24 h and significantly altered the patterns at time scales &lt;4 h. Identification of the control nodes of a neural network responsible for scale invariance is the critical first step in understanding the neurophysiological origin of scale invariance/self-similarity.
Although the monoamine theory of depression is well studied, regarding childhood depression it is poorly supported. Antidepressant treatments affecting the monoaminergic system fail to ameliorate childhood depression in the same manner that they affect adult depression. The present study used the Flinders sensitive line (FSL) rat, a well-investigated genetic animal model of depression and Sprague-Dawley (SD) rats as controls. We co-measured monoamines and dehydroepiandrosterone (DHEA) levels in the nucleus accumbens on postnatal day 1, in prepubertal rats (35 days), and adult rats (4 months) in order to examine developmental characteristics in the monoamine systems. The results suggest that there are different ontogenetic patterns of monoaminergic activity in FSL and SD rats. While monoamine levels were different only in adulthood, FSL rats exhibited lower DHEA levels already in prepubertal childhood. These differences may be relevant to the poor response to antidepressant drugs observed in depressed children and suggest DHEA as a new marker for childhood depression.
A study was made at electron microscope level of changes in the three-dimensional (3-D) morphology of dendritic spines and postsynaptic densities (PSDs) in CA1 of the hippocampus in ground squirrels, taken either at low temperature during hibernation (brain temperature 2-4 degrees C), or after warming and recovery to the normothermic state (34 degrees C). In addition, the morphology of PSDs and spines was measured in a non-hibernating mammal, rat, subjected to cooling at 2 degrees C at which time core rectal temperature was 15 degrees C, and then after warming to normothermic conditions. Significant differences were found in the proportion of thin and stubby spines, and shaft synapses in CA1 for rats and ground squirrels for normothermia compared with cooling or hibernation. Hypothermia induced a decrease in the proportion of thin spines, and an increase in stubby and shaft spines, but no change in the proportion of mushroom spines. The changes in redistribution of these three categories of spines in ground squirrel are more prominent than in rat. There were no significant differences in synapse density determined for ground squirrels or rats at normal compared with low temperature. Measurement of spine and PSD volume (for mushroom and thin spines) also showed no significant differences between the two functional states in either rats or ground squirrels, nor were there any differences in distances between neighboring synapses. Spinules on dendritic shafts were notable qualitatively during hibernation, but absent in normothermia. These data show that hypothermia results in morphological changes which are essentially similar in both a hibernating and a non-hibernating animal.
Central cholinergic neurons are known to play a role in the pharmacological actions of opiates. The purpose of the study was to determine whether the muscarinic receptor agonist arecoline, administered during morphine self-administration, would mitigate the subsequent return to self-administration behavior. Rats self-administered increasing concentrations of morphine in operant chambers according to a schedule that permitted unlimited access to lever-activated i.v. infusions on a continuous 24 h basis from 10 to 14 days. Abstinence was induced by discontinuation of the morphine solution and mild withdrawal symptoms were evident from 14 to 74 h. Thereafter the rats remained in their home cages for a 6-week period of protracted abstinence. They were then returned to the operant chambers where lever responding had no reward consequence. The cholinergic muscarinic agonist arecoline was administered twice daily (0.25 or 1 mg/kg, s.c.) throughout the self-administration schedule of morphine. Arecoline treatment partly decreased the self-administration of morphine, it prevented the abstinence-induced decrease in body weight, and it reduced lever responding after protracted withdrawal (by 56%). In animals already dependent on morphine, arecoline failed to alter ongoing self-administration behavior, but responding induced by lever reinstatement 6 weeks after withdrawal was significantly reduced (by 33%). There was a significant relationship between the degree of self-administration activity and the degree of lever responding during reinstatement after protracted abstinence. The results of this study support the role of cholinergic systems in self-administration behavior and context-induced post-withdrawal drug seeking.
Previous studies of postnatal synaptic development in human frontal cortex have shown that synaptic density rises after birth, reaches a plateau in childhood and then decreases to adult levels by late adolescence. A similar pattern has been seen in nonhuman primate cortex. These earlier studies in human cortex are limited, however, by significant age gaps in study subjects at critical inflection points of the developmental curve. Additionally, it is unclear if synaptic development occurs in different patterns in different cortical layers in prefrontal cortex (PFC). The purpose of this study was to examine synaptic density in human PFC across development by measuring two synaptic marker proteins: synaptophysin (presynaptic), and postsynaptic density protein 95 (PSD-95; postsynaptic). Western blotting was used to assess the relative levels of synaptophysin and PSD-95 in dorsolateral PFC of 42 subjects, distributed in age from 18 weeks gestation to 25 years. In addition, synaptophysin immunoreactivity was examined in each layer of areas 9 and 46 of PFC in 24 subjects, ranging in age from 0.1-25 years. Synaptophysin levels slowly increased from birth until age 5 and then increased more rapidly to peak in late childhood around age 10. Synaptophysin subsequently decreased until the adult level was reached by mid-adolescence, around age 16. PSD-95 levels increased postnatally to reach a stable plateau by early childhood with a slight reduction in late adolescence and early adulthood. The pattern of synaptophysin immunoreactivity seen with immunohistochemistry was similar to the Western experiments but the changes across age were more subtle, with little change by layer within and across age. The developmental patterns exhibited by these synaptic marker proteins expand upon previous studies of developmental synaptic changes in human frontal cortex; synaptic density increases steadily from birth to late childhood, then decreases in early adolescence to reach adult levels by late adolescence.
The sympathetic nervous system plays a role in carcinogenesis wherein locally released sympathetic neurotransmitters affect proliferation, angiogenesis, vessel permeability, lymphocyte traffic and cytokine production. The present in vivo study was designed to investigate whether surgical sympathectomy, both unilateral and bilateral, had an effect on tumor growth, interstitial fluid pressure (IFP) and lymphatics in rat tongue cancer. We used 4-nitroquinoline-1-oxide (4-NQO) in drinking water for 19 weeks to induce tongue cancer in 20 Dark Agouti rats. After 11 weeks, one group underwent unilateral sympathectomy and another underwent bilateral sympathectomy, while the third group underwent sham surgery. By 19 weeks, tumors in the bilaterally sympathectomized (BL-SCGx) rats were significantly smaller (P&lt;0.05), more diffuse in appearance and less invasive (P&lt;0.05) compared with the large exophytic tumors in the sham-operated rats. The relative lymphatic area was significantly decreased (P&lt;0.05) in tumors in the BL-SCGx rats compared with the sham group. Interestingly, the tumors in rats that underwent unilateral or bilateral sympathectomy had a significantly lower (P&lt;0.05) IFP than those in sham rats. Lack of tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) immunoreactive nerves and few neuropeptide Y (NPY) positive fibers indicate absence of sympathetic nerve fibers in the bilateral sympathectomized group. The peritumoral lymph vessel area was correlated with the tumor size (P&lt;0.001), depth of invasion (P&lt;0.001), weight of rats (P&lt;0.005) and IFP (P&lt;0.05). In conclusion, the present study presents evidence that deprivation of sympathetic nerves decreases tumor growth in rat tongue, probably caused by decreasing IFP and lymph vessel area.
The pivotal role of the medial preoptic area (MPOA) of the hypothalamus in the dopaminergic cerebral control of ejaculation has been investigated for years; nevertheless the function of different dopamine receptors subclasses and their exact interrelations merit additional research. One hundred nanograms of a preferential D(3) agonist 7-OH-DPAT (7-hydroxy-N,N-di-n-propylaminotetralin hydrobromide) was microinjected unilaterally into the MPOA of male rats anesthetized with urethane. An ejaculation-related response (bulbospongiosus muscles rhythmic contractions and/or seminal vesicle pressure increases and/or expulsion of a semen plug) was observed in 8 of 10 rats devoid of sexual stimuli, while a similar response was observed in only one rat administered with 10 ng of 7-OH-DPAT. The effect of 7-OH-DPAT 100 ng was mostly abolished by simultaneous MPOA microinjection of 300 ng of a preferential D(3) antagonist N-[(n-butyl-2-pyrrolidinyl) methyl]-1-methoxy-4-cyanonaphthalene-2-carboxamide tartrate (nafadotride). Our results support the hypothesis that supraspinal command of ejaculation is mediated by D(2)-like receptors, probably by D(3) receptors, in the MPOA, and draw attention to the idea of these receptors serving as a promising target for pharmacological treatment of human ejaculatory disorders.
The present study investigated the cardiovascular effects of orexin (OX)-A and OX-B in the nucleus tractus solitarii (NTS) and delineated the engagement of nitric oxide (NO) and GABA in OX-induced cardiovascular responses. In adult male Sprague-Dawley rats maintained under propofol anesthesia, microinjection bilaterally into the NTS of OX-A or OX-B evoked bi-directional cardiovascular effects in a dose-dependent manner. At a lower dose (5 pmol), OX-A or OX-B decreased systemic arterial pressure (SAP), heart rate (HR), and power density of the vasomotor components of SAP signals, our experimental index for sympathetic neurogenic vasomotor tone. At higher doses (&gt;20 pmol), these two compounds elicited cardiovascular excitatory responses. These bi-directional cardiovascular effects of OX were abolished by co-injection of an OX(1) receptor antagonist, 1-(2-methylbenzoxazol-6-yl)-3-[1,5]naphthyridin-4-yl-urea hydrochloride (SB-334867, 0.75 nmol) or the OX(2) receptor antiserum (1:20). In addition, the vasodepressor effects of low dose (5 pmol) OX-A or OX-B in the NTS were attenuated by a nitric oxide synthase (NOS) inhibitor, N(G)-nitro-l-arginine methyl ester (l-NAME, 5 nmol), a neuronal nitric oxide synthase (nNOS) inhibitor, 7-nitroindazole (2.5 pmol) or the soluble guanylate cyclase (sGC) inhibitor, 1H-[1,2,4]oxadiazole[4,3-alpha]quinoxalin-1-one (250 pmol). The vasopressor effects of high dose (200 pmol) OX were reversed by co-administration with GABA(A) or GABA(B) receptor antagonist, bicuculline methiodine (10 pmol) or 2-hydroxy saclofen (100 pmol), or l-NAME (5 nmol). Our results indicate that OX-A or OX-B elicited bi-directional cardiovascular effects via OX receptor-dependent mechanisms. The vasodepressor effects of OX were induced by the nNOS-derived NO and activation of sGC-associated signaling pathway, whereas the vasopressor effects were mediated by interaction with GABAergic or nitrergic neurotransmission in the NTS.
The aim of this study was to assess the effects of prenatal exposures to cannabinoids or carbon monoxide (CO) in an animal experimental model reproducing the environmental conditions in which a fetus develops whose mother, during pregnancy, ingests by smoking low doses of cannabinoids or CO. Particular attention was devoted to analyses of the long-term effects of the exposures at the level of the cerebellar cortex, where already during prenatal development the GABAergic neuronal systems may be modulated by both cannabinoids and CO. Three groups of rats were subjected to the following experimental conditions: exposure to cannabinoids by maternal treatment during pregnancy with the cannabinoid CB-1 receptor agonist WIN 55212-2 (WIN) (0.5 mg/kg/day, s.c.); exposure to CO by maternal exposure during pregnancy to CO (75 parts per million, by inhalation); and exposure to WIN+CO at the above doses and means of administration; a fourth group was used as control. The body weight of dams, length of pregnancy, litter size at birth, body weight and postnatal mortality of pups were monitored in order to evaluate possible effects of the exposures on reproduction and on prenatal and postnatal development. In the different groups, the long-term effects of the exposures were studied in adult rats (120-150 days) by light microscopy analyses of the structure of the cerebellar cortex and of the distribution in the cortex of markers of GABAergic neurons, such as GAD and GABA itself. Results. Exposures to WIN or CO did not affect reproduction or prenatal/postnatal development. Moreover, the exposed rats showed no structural alterations of the cerebellar cortex and displayed qualitative distribution patterns of GAD and GABA immunoreactivities similar to those of the controls. However, quantitative analyses indicated significant changes of both of these immunoreactivities: in comparison with the controls, they were significantly increased in WIN-exposed rats and reduced in CO-exposed rats, but not significantly different in WIN+CO-exposed rats. The changes were detected in the molecular and Purkinje neuron layers, but not in the granular layer. Prenatal exposures of rats to WIN or CO, at doses that do not affect reproduction, general processes of development and histomorphogenesis of the cerebellar cortex, cause significant changes of GAD and GABA immunoreactivities in some GABAergic neuronal systems of the adult rat cerebellar cortex, indicating selective up-regulation of GABA-mediated neurotransmission as a long-term consequence of chronic prenatal exposures to cannabinoids or CO. Because the changes consist of overexpression or, vice versa, underexpression of these immunoreactivities, functional alterations of opposite types in the GABAergic systems of the cerebellum following exposure to WIN or CO can be postulated, in agreement with the results of behavioral and clinical studies. No changes in immunoreactivities were detected after prenatal exposure to WIN and CO in association.
Functionally distinct subsets of hippocampal inhibitory neurons exhibit large differences in the frequency, pattern and short-term plasticity of GABA release from their terminals. Heterogeneity is also evident in the ultrastructural features of GABAergic axon terminals examined in the electron microscope, but it is not known if or how this corresponds to interneuron subtypes. We investigated the feasibility of separating morphologically distinct clusters of terminal types, using the approach of measuring several ultrastructural parameters of GABAergic terminals in the CA1 area of the rat hippocampus. Septo-hippocampal axon terminals were anterogradely labeled by biotinylated dextran amine and visualized by pre-embedding immunogold staining to delineate one homogeneous terminal population. Long series (100-150) of ultrathin sections were cut from stratum oriens and stratum radiatum of the CA1 area, and GABAergic terminals were identified by post-embedding immunogold staining. Stereologically unbiased samples of the total GABAergic axon terminal population and a random sample of the septal axon terminals were reconstructed in 3D, and several of their parameters were measured (e.g. bouton volume, synapse surface, volume occupied by vesicles, mitochondria volume). Septal terminals demonstrated significantly larger mean values for most parameters than the total population of local GABAergic terminals. There was no significant difference between terminals reconstructed in the basal and apical dendritic regions of pyramidal cells, neither for the septal nor for the local population. Importantly, almost all parameters were highly correlated, precluding the possibility of clustering the local terminals into non-overlapping subsets. Factor and cluster analysis confirmed these findings. Our results suggest that similarly to excitatory terminals, inhibitory terminals follow an &quot;ultrastructural size principle,&quot; and that the terminals of different interneuron subtypes cannot be distinguished by ultrastructure alone.
Haloperidol-induced c-Fos expression in the lateral part of the neostriatum has been correlated with motor side effects while c-Fos induction in the medial part of the neostriatum and the nucleus accumbens is thought to be associated with the therapeutic effects of the drug. Induction of c-Fos in the striatum by haloperidol involves dopamine D(2) (DA D(2)) receptor antagonism and is dependent on activation of N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA) receptors and L-type Ca(2+) channels. In the current study, pretreatment with L-type Ca(2+) channel blockers suppressed haloperidol-induced c-Fos throughout the neostriatum and the nucleus accumbens at 2 h postinjection. However, elevated c-Fos protein expression was observed only in the lateral part of the neostriatum at 5 h postinjection of haloperidol following pretreatment of L-type Ca(2+) channel blocker compared with rats pretreated with vehicle alone. In addition, pretreatment prolonged the duration of haloperidol-induced catalepsy in rats. Infusions of L-type Ca(2+) channel blockers directly into the neostriatum mimicked similar patterns of changes in haloperidol-induced c-Fos expression. Prolonged expression of c-Fos was not observed following coadministration of nifedipine and a dopamine D(1) (DA D(1)) receptor agonist, SKF 81297, but could be mimicked by the DA D(2/3) receptor antagonist raclopride, suggesting that the phenomenon is likely related to DA D(2) receptor antagonism. Moreover, the expression levels of haloperidol-induced zif 268 and haloperidol-induced phosphorylated CREB and phosphorylated Elk-1 were also substantially elevated for a prolonged period of time in the lateral, but not the medial part of the neostriatum, following blockade of L-type Ca(2+) channels. Collectively, the results suggest that coadministration of L-type Ca(2+) channel blockers affects haloperidol signaling in the lateral part of the neostriatum and may exacerbate the development of acute motor side effects.
Neonatal maternal separation (NMS) has been shown to trigger alterations in neuroendocrine, neurochemical and sensory response to nociceptive stimuli along the brain-gut axis. These alterations may be the result of a cascade of events that are regulated by neurotrophic factors. Nerve growth factor (NGF), a member of the neurotrophin family, is essential for the development and maintenance of sensory neurons and for the formation of central pain circuitry. The present study aimed to investigate whether NMS causes changes in neuronal plasticity and the relationship of these changes in plasticity with the expression of NGF and its high affinity tyrosine kinase receptor A (TrkA) in the lumbosacral spinal cord in adult rats. Male Wistar rat pups were either subjected to 180 min daily of NMS or not handled (NH) for 13 consecutive days. The expression of NGF and TrkA was examined in NH and NMS rats with or without colorectal distention (CRD) as determined by Western blot analysis and immunohistochemistry. The present results of Western blot analysis indicated NMS and CRD have a significant effect on NGF protein level in the lumbosacral spinal cord of rats. Assessments of optical densities revealed that NMS enhanced TrkA-ir fiber densities in laminae I-III and laminae V-VI of rats in both conditions with or without CRD. Double immunofluorescence revealed that TrkA co-expressed with calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) in afferent fibers, while no significant difference in terms of the intensity of TrkA-ir in these fibers was found among groups. Quantitative analysis of TrkA-ir neurons indicated a significant interactive effect of NMS and CRD on the mean number of TrkA-ir neurons in laminae V-VI of rats, in which significant difference was found between NMS+CRD and NH+CRD. Double immunofluorescence of TrkA and Fos showed that CRD has a significant effect on TrkA expression in Fos-positive neurons in laminae V-VI and lamina X of rats, while no significant difference was found between NMS+CRD and NH+CRD. These results demonstrate that NMS induced alterations in NGF protein level and TrkA expression in adult rat spinal cord and indicate that NGF is a crucial mediator for the changes in neuronal plasticity that occur in NMS-induced visceral hyperalgesia.
Nitrous oxide (N(2)O), a pharmacological active gas and an antagonist of N-methyl-D-aspartic acid receptors, has been reported to be effective in the treatment of alcohol and tobacco withdrawal syndrome. However, the neurobiological bases of N(2)O effects are unknown. The aim of the present studies was to examine the effect of N(2)O on acquisition and expression of morphine- (10 mg/kg; s.c.) and cocaine- (20 mg/kg; i.p.) induced conditioned place preference (CPP) in mice. Unbiased place conditioning method was used. Mice were exposed to N(2)O during the conditioning phase (acquisition of CPP) or during postconditioning phase (expression of CPP). The same protocol was used to evaluate the impact of N(2)O on locomotor activity, two-trial recognition task (memory), spontaneous alternation, sucrose consumption (anhedonic state), forced swim (depressive state) and elevated O-maze tests (anxiety state). In all these tests, mice were treated with morphine (10 mg/kg, s.c.) the first day, the following day mice were given saline. This sequence alternated during the next 4 days. Control animals received saline every day. The behavior of animals was evaluated on day 8. N(2)O did not induce CPP but impaired the acquisition of morphine-induced CPP and blocked the expression of cocaine- and morphine-induced CPP. The effects of the gas were long lasting and persist 4 days following the exposure. Moreover no behavioral modifications in tests usually used to investigated emotional state as compared with control mice were observed in animals exposed to N(2)O, ruling out an effect of this gas on attention, anxiety, depression, locomotion and anhedonia. These studies raise the possibility that N(2)O could have a clinical benefit in the management of morphine and cocaine addiction.
We previously demonstrated that naloxone administration produces a robust conditioned place aversion (CPA) in opiate-naive rodents by blocking the action of enkephalins at mu opioid receptors (MORs). The aversive response to naloxone is potentiated by prior exposure to morphine. Morphine-induced MOR constitutive activity is hypothesized to underlie this enhanced effect of naloxone, an inverse agonist at the MOR. We sought additional evidence for the role of constitutively active MORs in this morphine-induced enhancement using the pro-enkephalin knockout (pENK(-)/(-)) mouse, which is devoid of naloxone CPA in the morphine-naive state. Naloxone, but not the neutral antagonist, 6-beta-naloxol, produced CPA and physical withdrawal signs in pENK(-)/(-) mice when administered 2 h, but not 20 h, after morphine administration. Naloxone-precipitated physical withdrawal signs were attenuated in the pENK(-)/(-) mice relative to wild-type (WT) animals. In both WT and pENK(-)/(-) mice, naloxone-precipitated withdrawal jumping was greatest when naloxone was administered 2 h after morphine treatment and diminished at 3 h, in agreement with previous estimates of the time course for morphine-induced MOR constitutive activity in vitro. However, naloxone regained an ability to precipitate physical withdrawal in the WT, but not the pENK(-)/(-) mice when administered 4.5 h after morphine administration. Taken together, the data suggest that a compensatory increase in enkephalin release during spontaneous morphine withdrawal promotes a second period of MOR constitutive activity in WT mice that is responsible for the enhanced naloxone aversion observed in such animals even when naloxone is administered 20 h after morphine. The endogenous enkephalin system and MOR constitutive activity may therefore play vital roles in hedonic homeostatic dysregulation following chronic opiate administration.
Epileptiform activity induces long term aberrations in hippocampal network functions. This study was conducted in pentylenetetrazol (PTZ) -kindled rats to examine offsetting of aberrations associated with seizure proneness in hippocampus area CA1 by theta pulse stimulation (TPS: 5 Hz trains for 3 min) -induced activity pattern. In hippocampal slices from both control and kindled rats, the field excitatory postsynaptic potentials (fEPSP) and population spikes (PS) were simultaneously recorded through electrodes in the apical dendrites and stratum pyramidale, respectively. The following changes in kindled vs. control slices were observed. The fEPSP needed to be greater to produce the PS recorded in the cell body layer. The fEPSP was reduced by paired stimuli whereas the PS amplitude was increased. TPS selectively depressed the PS in a lasting fashion, and shifted the fEPSP slope and the PS amplitude relation toward what was observed in controls. Both the fEPSP and PS were increased by paired stimuli at 60 min after TPS application. The lasting depressive effect of TPS on the PS amplitude was converted into facilitation by adenosine A1 receptor antagonist 8-cyclopentyl-1, 3-dipropylxanthine (CPX). Potentiation of the PS amplitude by TPS in the presence of CPX was blocked by an N-methyl-d-aspartate receptor antagonist AP5. We hypothesize that the extracellular adenosine spillover, acting through adenosine A1 receptors, during TPS-induced activity pattern could trigger a homeostatic process for correcting network imbalances caused by epileptiform activity.
The role of agrin in synaptogenesis has been extensively studied. On the other hand, little is known about the function of this extracellular matrix protein during developmental processes that precede the formation of synapses. Recently, agrin was shown to regulate the rate of neurite elongation and the behavior of growth cones in hippocampal and spinal neurons, respectively. However, the molecular mechanisms underlying these effects have not been completely elucidated. In the present study, we analyzed the morphological and molecular changes induced by agrin in growth cones of hippocampal neurons that developed in culture. Morphometric analysis showed a significant enlargement of growth cones of hippocampal neurons cultured in the presence of agrin. These agrin-induced growth cone changes were accompanied by the formation of loops of microtubules highly enriched in acetylated tubulin and an increase in the content of the microtubule-associated protein (MAP)1B. Together, these data provide further insights into the potential molecular mechanisms underlying the effects of agrin on neurite outgrowth in rat central neurons.
Recent findings demonstrate that chemokines, and more specifically CC chemokine ligand 2 (CCL2 or monocyte chemoattractant protein-1), play a major role in pain processing. In the present study, we assess nociceptive responses of mice that overexpressed CCL2 under control of glial fibrillary acidic protein promoter (CCL2 tg). In models of acute nociception CCL2 tg mice demonstrated significantly enhanced nociceptive behavior relative to wild-type controls in responses to both thermal (hot plate) and chemical (formalin test) stimulus modalities. There were no differences in mechanical allodynia in the partial sciatic nerve ligation model, in terms of either magnitude or duration of the allodynic response; however, both groups responded to the maximal extent measurable. In a model of inflammatory pain, elicited by intraplantar administration of complete Freund's adjuvant (CFA), CCL2 tg mice displayed both greater edema and thermal hyperalgesia compared with control mice. In control mice, edema and hyperalgesia returned to baseline values 5-7 days post CFA. However, in CCL2 tg mice, thermal hyperalgesia was significantly different from baseline up to 3 weeks post CFA. Parallel to these enhanced behavioral responses CCL2 serum levels were significantly greater in CCL2 overexpressing mice and remained elevated 7 days post CFA. Consequently, proinflammatory cytokine mRNA expression (IL-1beta, IL-6, and TNFalpha) levels were greater in skin, dorsal root ganglia (DRG), and spinal cord, whereas the anti-inflammatory cytokine (IL-10) level was lower in skin and DRG in CCL2 overexpressing mice than in control mice. Taken together with data from CCR2-deficient mice, these present data confirm a key role of CCL2/CCR2 axis in pain pathways and suggest that inhibiting this axis may result in novel pain therapies.
Sensorineural hearing loss (SNHL) comprises hearing disorders with diverse pathologies of the inner ear and the auditory nerve. To date, an unambiguous phenotypical characterization of the specific pathologies in an affected individual remains impossible. Here, we evaluated the use of scalp-recorded auditory steady-state responses (ASSR) and transient auditory brainstem responses (ABR) for differentiating the disease mechanisms underlying sensorineural hearing loss in well-characterized mouse models. We first characterized the ASSR evoked by sinusoidally amplitude-modulated tones in wild-type mice. ASSR were robustly elicited within three ranges of modulation frequencies below 200 Hz, from 200 to 600 Hz and beyond 600 Hz in most recordings. Using phase information we estimated the apparent ASSR latency to be about 3 ms, suggesting generation in the auditory brainstem. Auditory thresholds obtained by automated and visual analysis of ASSR recordings were comparable to those found with tone-burst evoked ABR in the same mice. We then recorded ASSR and ABR from mouse mutants bearing defects of either outer hair cell amplification (KCNQ4-knockout) or inner hair cell synaptic transmission (Bassoon-mutant). Both mutants showed an increase of ASSR and ABR thresholds of approximately 40 dB versus wild-type when investigated at 8 weeks of age. Mice with defective amplification displayed a steep rise of ASSR and ABR amplitudes with increasing sound intensity, presumably reflecting a strong recruitment of synchronously activated neural elements beyond threshold. In contrast, the amplitudes of ASSR and ABR responses of mice with impaired synaptic transmission grew very little with sound intensity. In summary, ASSR allow for a rapid, objective and frequency-specific hearing assessment and together with ABR and otoacoustic emissions can contribute to the differential diagnosis of SNHL.
Serotonin (5-HT), and in particular 5-HT(2) receptors, play an important role in cardiorespiratory function within the brainstem. In addition, abnormalities in the 5-HT system have been implicated in many cardiorespiratory disorders, including sudden infant death syndrome. However, little is known about the mechanisms of action of 5-HT(2) receptors in altering the activity of parasympathetic cardiac neurons in the brainstem. In this study we examined the effects of activation of different subtypes of 5-HT(2) receptors on spontaneous and respiratory-evoked GABAergic neurotransmission to cardioinhibitory vagal neurons within the nucleus ambiguus as well as rhythmic fictive inspiratory-related activity in rats. A single application of alpha-Me-5-hydroxytryptamine maleate (alpha-Me-5-HT), a 5-HT(2) receptor agonist, did not significantly alter the frequency of spontaneous or respiratory-evoked GABAergic inhibitory postsynaptic currents (IPSCs) in cardiac vagal neurons. However, repetitive successive applications of alpha-Me-5-HT elicited a long-lasting (&gt;/=1 h) decrease in the frequency of spontaneous as well as inspiratory-related GABAergic IPSCs to cardiac vagal neurons. This study demonstrates multiple, but not single applications of the 5-HT(2) receptor agonist alpha-Me-5-HT caused a long-lasting inhibition of both spontaneous and fictive inspiratory-related GABAergic neurotransmission to CVNs, which can be prevented by the 5-HT(2B) receptor antagonist SB204741, but persisted with the 5-HT(2A/2C) receptor antagonist ketanserin. The 5-HT(2) receptor agonist alpha-Me-5-HT also reversibly and transiently excited central fictive inspiratory activity, which was abolished by ketanserin, but was unaffected by the 5-HT(2B) receptor antagonist SB204741.



Imaging studies are consistent with the existence of brain regions specialized for color, but electrophysiological studies have produced conflicting results. Here we address the neural basis for color, using targeted single-unit recording in alert macaque monkeys, guided by functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) of the same subjects. Distributed within posterior inferior temporal cortex, a large region encompassing V4, PITd, and posterior TEO that some have proposed functions as a single visual complex, we found color-biased fMRI hotspots that we call &quot;globs,&quot; each several millimeters wide. Almost all cells located in globs showed strong luminance-invariant color tuning and some shape selectivity. Cells in different globs represented distinct visual field locations, consistent with the coarse retinotopy of this brain region. Cells in &quot;interglob&quot; regions were not color tuned, but were more strongly shape selective. Neither population was direction selective. These results suggest that color perception is mediated by specialized neurons that are clustered within the extrastriate brain.
Previous work has identified alterations in histone acetylation in animal models of drug addiction and depression. However, the mechanisms which integrate drugs and stress with changes in chromatin structure remain unclear. Here, we identify the activity-dependent class II histone deacetylase, HDAC5, as a central integrator of these stimuli with changes in chromatin structure and gene expression. Chronic, but not acute, exposure to cocaine or stress decreases HDAC5 function in the nucleus accumbens (NAc), a major brain reward region, which allows for increased histone acetylation and transcription of HDAC5 target genes. This regulation is behaviorally important, as loss of HDAC5 causes hypersensitive responses to chronic, not acute, cocaine or stress. These findings suggest that proper balance of histone acetylation is a crucial factor in the saliency of a given stimulus and that disruption of this balance is involved in the transition from an acute adaptive response to a chronic psychiatric illness.
The scaffold protein PSD-95 promotes the maturation and strengthening of excitatory synapses, functions that require proper localization of PSD-95 in the postsynaptic density (PSD). Here we report that phosphorylation of ser-295 enhances the synaptic accumulation of PSD-95 and the ability of PSD-95 to recruit surface AMPA receptors and potentiate excitatory postsynaptic currents. We present evidence that a Rac1-JNK1 signaling pathway mediates ser-295 phosphorylation and regulates synaptic content of PSD-95. Ser-295 phosphorylation is suppressed by chronic elevation, and increased by chronic silencing, of synaptic activity. Rapid dephosphorylation of ser-295 occurs in response to NMDA treatment that causes chemical long-term depression (LTD). Overexpression of a phosphomimicking mutant (S295D) of PSD-95 inhibited NMDA-induced AMPA receptor internalization and blocked the induction of LTD. The data suggest that synaptic strength can be regulated by phosphorylation-dephosphorylation of ser-295 of PSD-95 and that synaptic depression requires the dephosphorylation of ser-295.
We performed two-photon in vivo imaging of cerebellar climbing fibers (CFs; the terminal arbor of olivocerebellar axons) in adult mice. CF ascending branches innervate Purkinje cells while CF transverse branches show a near complete failure to form conventional synapses. Time-lapse imaging over hours or days revealed that ascending branches were very stable. However, transverse branches were highly dynamic, exhibiting rapid elongation and retraction and varicosity turnover. Thus, different branches of the same axon, with different innervation patterns, display branch type-specific motility in the adult cerebellum. Furthermore, dynamic changes in transverse branch length were almost completely suppressed by pharmacological stimulation of olivary firing.
Synaptic activity induces changes in the number of dendritic spines. Here, we report a pathway of regulated endocytosis triggered by arcadlin, a protocadherin induced by electroconvulsive and other excitatory stimuli in hippocampal neurons. The homophilic binding of extracellular arcadlin domains activates TAO2beta, a splice variant of the thousand and one amino acid protein kinase 2, cloned here by virtue of its binding to the arcadlin intracellular domain. TAO2beta is a MAPKKK that activates the MEK3 MAPKK, which phosphorylates the p38 MAPK. Activation of p38 feeds-back on TAO2beta, phosphorylating a key serine required for triggering endocytosis of N-cadherin at the synapse. Arcadlin knockout increases the number of dendritic spines, and the phenotype is rescued by siRNA knockdown of N-cadherin. This pathway of regulated endocytosis of N-cadherin via protocadherin/TAO2beta/MEK3/p38 provides a molecular mechanism for transducing neuronal activity into changes in synaptic morphologies.

The transition from actions that require effortful attention to those that are exercised automatically reflects the progression of learning. Full automaticity marks the performance of the expert. Research on changes in brain activity from novice to skilled performance has been consistent with this behavioral characterization, showing that a highly practiced skill often requires less brain activation than before practice. Moreover, the decrease in brain activity with practice is most pronounced in the general or executive control processes mediated by frontal lobe networks. Consistent with these human cognitive neuroscience findings, animal neurophysiological evidence suggests that two elementary learning systems support different stages of skill acquisition. One system supports rapid and focused acquisition of new skills in relation to threats and violations of expectancies. The other involves a gradual process of updating a configural model of the environmental context. We collected dense array electroencephalography as participants performed an arbitrary associative (&quot;code learning&quot;) task. We predicted that frontal lobe activity would decrease, whereas posterior cortical activity would increase, as the person gains the knowledge required for appropriate action. Both predictions were confirmed. In addition, we found that learning resulted in an unexpected increase in activity in the medial frontal lobe (the medial frontal negativity or MFN). Although preliminary, these findings suggest that the specific mechanisms of learning in animal neurophysiology studies may prove informative for understanding the neural basis of human learning and executive cognitive control.
Vagus nerve stimulation therapy, effective for treatment-resistant epilepsy, has recently been approved also for treatment-resistant depression; nevertheless, the molecular mechanism(s) underlying its therapeutic action remains unclear. Given that neurotrophic factors and monoamines could play a crucial role in the pathophysiology of depression, we tested whether vagus nerve stimulation increases the expression of brain-derived neurotrophic factor, fibroblast growth factor, and nerve growth factor as well as the concentration of norepinephrine in the rat brain. Rats were implanted with a vagus nerve stimulator device and the effects of acute stimulation were evaluated on the growth factors mRNA levels and norepinephrine concentration by ribonuclease protection assay and microdialysis, respectively. We found that acute vagus nerve stimulation increased the expression of brain-derived neurotrophic factor and fibroblast growth factor in the hippocampus and cerebral cortex, decreased the abundance of nerve growth factor mRNA in the hippocampus, and, similar to the antidepressant drug venlafaxine, increased the norepinephrine concentration in the prefrontal cortex. This study demonstrates that acute vagus nerve stimulation triggers neurochemical and molecular changes in the rat brain involving neurotransmitters and growth factors known to play a crucial role in neuronal trophism. These new findings contribute to the elucidation of the molecular mechanisms underlying the therapeutic actions of vagus nerve stimulation in both treatment-resistant depression and epilepsy.
Substantial data exists demonstrating the importance of the amygdala and the locus ceruleus (LC) in responding to stress, aversive memory formation, and the development of stress-related disorders; however, little is known about the effects of norepinephrine (NE) on amygdala neuronal activity in vivo. The basolateral nucleus of the amygdala (BLA) receives dense NE projections from the LC, NE increases in the BLA in response to stress, and the BLA can also modulate the LC via reciprocal projections. These experiments examined the effects of noradrenergic agents on spontaneous and evoked responses of BLA neurons. NE iontophoresis inhibited spontaneous firing and decreased the responsiveness of BLA neurons to electrical stimulation of entorhinal cortex and sensory association cortex (Te3). Confirmed BLA projection neurons exhibited exclusively inhibitory responses to NE. Systemic administration of propranolol, a beta-receptor antagonist, decreased the spontaneous firing rate and potentiated the NE-evoked inhibition of BLA neurons. In addition, iontophoresis of the alpha-2 agonist clonidine, footshock administration, and LC stimulation mimicked the effects of NE iontophoresis on spontaneous activity. Furthermore, the effects of LC stimulation were partially blocked by systemic administration of alpha 2 and beta receptor antagonists. This is the first study to demonstrate the actions of directly applied and stimulus-evoked NE in the BLA in vivo, and provides a mechanism by which beta receptors can mediate the important behavioral consequences of NE within the BLA. The interaction between these two structures is particularly relevant with regard to their known involvement in stress responses and stress-related disorders.
The integration of two neural pathways generates learned song in zebra finches. The vocal motor pathway (VMP) is a direct connection between HVC (proper name) and the robust nucleus of the arcopallium (RA), whereas the anterior forebrain pathway (AFP) comprises an indirect circuit from HVC to RA that traverses the basal ganglia. Partial ablation (microlesion) of HVC in adult birds alters the integration of VMP and AFP synaptic input within RA and destabilizes singing. However, the vocal pattern shows surprising resilience because birds subsequently recover their song in approximately 1 week. Here, we show that deafening prevents vocal recovery after HVC microlesions, indicating that birds require auditory feedback to restore/relearn their vocal patterns. We then tested the role of the AFP (basal ganglia circuit) in this feedback-based recovery by ablating the output nucleus of the AFP [lateral magnocellular nucleus of the anterior nidopallium (LMAN)]. We found that LMAN ablation after HVC microlesions induced a sudden recovery of the vocal pattern. Thus, the AFP cannot be the neural locus of an instructive/learning mechanism that uses auditory feedback to guide vocal recovery, at least in this form of adult vocal plasticity. Instead, the AFP appears to be the source of the variable motor patterns responsible for vocal destabilization. In part, auditory feedback may restore song by strengthening the VMP component of synaptic input to RA relative to the AFP component.
At many excitatory synapses, AMPA-type receptors (AMPARs) are not statically situated in the membrane, but undergo continuous rounds of endocytosis and exocytosis, referred to as rapid cycling. AMPAR cycling is believed to play a role in certain forms of synaptic plasticity, but the link between cycling and synaptic function is not well understood. We have previously demonstrated that AMPARs cycle in neurons of the inner retina, including amacrine and ganglion cells, and that cycling is inhibited by synaptic activity. Recording from cultured neurons and ON ganglion cells in the flat-mount retina, we now show that rapid cycling is primarily, perhaps exclusively, restricted to AMPARs that contain the GluR2 subunit, and that cycle is confined to extrasynaptic receptors. We also demonstrate a form of plasticity at the ON bipolar cell-ON ganglion cell synapse, whereby synaptic quiescence drives a change in the composition of AMPARs from predominantly GluR2-containing to GluR2-lacking. Finally, we provide evidence linking synaptic receptor composition and cycling, showing that disruption of cycling leads increases the number of GluR2-containing receptors in the ON bipolar-ON ganglion cell synapse. We propose that cycling lowers the number of GluR2-containing receptors at the surface and, consequently, within the synapse. After increased levels of synaptic activity, cycling ceases, and all GluR2-containing receptors are free to go to the surface, where they can be delivered to synapses. Our results suggest that by regulating the cycling of AMPARs, ambient light can modulate the composition of synaptic receptors in ON ganglion cells.
Brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) is upregulated in the hippocampus by antidepressant treatments, and BDNF produces antidepressant-like effects in behavioral models of depression. In our previous work, we identified genes induced by BDNF and defined their specific roles in hippocampal neuronal development and plasticity. To identify genes downstream of BDNF that may play roles in psychiatric disorders, we examined a subset of BDNF-induced genes also regulated by 5-HT (serotonin), which includes the neuropeptide VGF (nonacronymic). To explore the function of VGF in depression, we first investigated the expression of the neuropeptide in animal models of depression. VGF was downregulated in the hippocampus after both the learned helplessness and forced swim test (FST) paradigms. Conversely, VGF infusion in the hippocampus of mice subjected to FST reduced the time spent immobile for up to 6 d, thus demonstrating a novel role for VGF as an antidepressant-like agent. Recent evidence indicates that chronic treatment of rodents with antidepressants increases neurogenesis in the adult dentate gyrus and that neurogenesis is required for the behavioral effects of antidepressants. Our studies using [(3)H]thymidine and bromodeoxyuridine as markers of DNA synthesis indicate that chronic VGF treatment enhances proliferation of hippocampal progenitor cells both in vitro and in vivo with survival up to 21 d. By double immunocytochemical analysis of hippocampal neurons, we demonstrate that VGF increases the number of dividing cells that express neuronal markers in vitro. Thus, VGF may act downstream of BDNF and exert its effects as an antidepressant-like agent by enhancing neurogenesis in the hippocampus.
The SM (Sec1/Munc18-like) protein Munc18-1 and the soluble N-ethylmaleimide-sensitive factor attachment protein (SNAP) receptor (SNARE) proteins syntaxin-1, SNAP-25, and synaptobrevin/VAMP (vesicle-associated membrane protein) constitute the core fusion machinery for synaptic vesicle exocytosis. Strikingly, Munc18-1 interacts with neuronal SNARE proteins in two distinct modes (i.e., with isolated syntaxin-1 alone in a &quot;closed&quot; conformation and with assembled SNARE complexes containing syntaxin-1 in an &quot;open&quot; conformation). However, it is unclear whether the two modes of Munc18/SNARE interactions are linked. We now show that both Munc18/SNARE interaction modes involve the same low-affinity binding of the extreme syntaxin-1 N terminus to Munc18-1, suggesting that this binding connects the two Munc18/SNARE interaction modes to each other. Using transfected cells as an in vitro assay system, we demonstrate that truncated syntaxins lacking a transmembrane region universally block exocytosis, but only if they contain a free intact N terminus. This block is enhanced by coexpression of either Munc18-1 or SNAP-25, suggesting that truncated syntaxins block exocytosis by forming an untethered inhibitory SNARE complex/Munc18-1 assembly in which the N-terminal syntaxin/Munc18 interaction is essential. Introduction of an N-terminal syntaxin peptide that disrupts this assembly blocks neurotransmitter release in the calyx of Held synapse, whereas a mutant peptide that does not disrupt the SNARE complex/Munc18 assembly has no effect. Viewed together, our data indicate that binding of Munc18 to the syntaxin N terminus unites different modes of Munc18/SNARE interactions and is essential for exocytic membrane fusion.
Efficient attention to our environment facilitates the decisions that need to be executed in daily life. Filtering critical from noncritical information may require the neural organization of multiple brain regions. Combining lesion techniques and the rodent version of the Wisconsin card sorting task in humans, we show at least two types of attentional processing systems reside in the cingulate and prefrontal cortices depending on task demands requiring shifts of attention within or between sets of meaningful cues, respectively. This neural organization for shifting attention either within or between perceptual dimensions is task dependent, and this type of organization provides evidence of attentional systems that transcend separate modality processing systems while subdividing executive control of attention. The results suggest that the anterior and posterior cingulate cortices are critical when shifting attention to closely related meaningful cues (i.e., within a perceptual dimension or attentional set) by suppressing interference of irrelevant background information, whereas the prefrontal cortex is critical when shifting attention between disparate sets of meaningful cues (i.e., between perceptual dimensions or attentional sets) (Dias et al., 1996a,b; Birrell and Brown, 2000). Based on the theories of Mackintosh (1965, 1975; Sutherland and Mackintosh, 1971), it is suggested that the cingulate cortex may be important for decreasing attention to irrelevant information. In general, attention deficit disorders affect both children and adults, and current medications may affect the prefrontal and associated parietal cortical systems more or less than the cingulate cortical system.


The excessive activation of AMPA (alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazole propionic acid) receptors, a subtype of glutamate ion channels, has been implicated in various neurological diseases such as cerebral ischemeia and amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. Inhibitors of AMPA receptors are drug candidates for potential treatment of these diseases. Using the systematic evolution of ligands by exponential enrichment (SELEX), we have selected a group of RNA aptamers against the recombinant GluR2Qflip AMPA receptor transiently expressed in HEK-293 (human embryonic kidney) cells. One of the aptamers, AN58, is shown to competitively inhibit the receptor. The nanomolar affinity of AN58 rivals that of NBQX (6-nitro-7-sulfamoyl-benzo[f]quinoxaline-2,3-dione), one of the best competitive inhibitors. Like NBQX, AN58 has the highest affinity for GluR2, the selection target, among all AMPA receptor subunits. However, AN58 has a higher selectivity for the GluR4 AMPA receptor subunit and remains potent even at pH = 6.8 (i.e., a clinically relevant acidic pH), as compared with NBQX. Furthermore, this RNA molecule possesses stable physical properties. Therefore, AN58 serves as a unique lead compound for developing water-soluble inhibitors with a nanomolar affinity for GluR2 AMPA receptors.

A recent study of how the brain processes emotionally expressive faces has revealed how task-relevant information is first gathered from the region around the eyes and then integrated downwards until categorization is achieved.
Humans may be patient when it comes to money, but chimpanzees are willing to wait longer than humans for food, suggesting patience is neither innate nor uniquely human.

Though sex differences in animal behavior are ubiquitous, their neural and genetic underpinnings remain poorly understood. In particular, the role of functional differences in the neural circuitry that is shared by both sexes has not been extensively investigated. We have addressed these issues with C. elegans olfaction, a simple innate behavior mediated by sexually isomorphic neurons. Though males respond to the same olfactory attractants as do hermaphrodites, we find that each sex has a characteristic repertoire of olfactory preferences. These are not secondary to other sex-specific behaviors and do not require signaling from the gonad. Sex-specific olfactory preferences are controlled by tra-1, the master regulator of C. elegans sexual differentiation. Moreover, the genetic masculinization of neurons in an otherwise wild-type hermaphrodite is sufficient to switch the sexual phenotype of olfactory preference behavior. These studies reveal novel and unexpected sex differences in a C. elegans sensory behavior that is exhibited by both sexes. Our results indicate that these differences are a function of the chromosomally determined sexual identity of shared neural circuitry.
A 53-year old woman with tic doloureaux, affecting her right maxillary division of the trigeminal nerve (V2), could elicit shooting pains by slightly tapping her teeth when off medication. The pains, which she normally rated as &gt; 6/10 on a visual analog scale (VAS), were electric shock-like in nature. She had no other spontaneous or ongoing background pain affecting the region. Based on her ability to elicit these tics, functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) was performed while she produced brief shocks every 2 minutes on cue (evoked pain) over a 20 min period. In addition, she had 1-2 spontaneous shocks manifested between these evoked pains over the course of functional image acquisition. Increased fMRI activation for both evoked and spontaneous tics was observed throughout cortical and subcortical structures commonly observed in experimental pain studies with healthy subjects; including the primary somatosensory cortex, insula, anterior cingulate, and thalamus. Spontaneous tics produced more decrease in signals in a number of regions including the posterior cingulate cortex and amygdala, suggesting that regions known to be involved in expectation/anticipation may have been activated for the evoked, but not spontaneous, tics. In this patient there were large increases in activation observed in the frontal regions, including the anterior cingulate cortex and the basal ganglia. Spontaneous tics showed increased activation in classic aversion circuitry that may contribute to increased levels of anxiety. We believe that this is the first report of functional imaging of brain changes in tic-doloureaux.
The inferior colliculus (IC) is normally thought of as a predominantly auditory structure because of its early position in the ascending auditory pathway just before the auditory thalamus. Here, we show that a majority of IC neurons (64% of 180 neurons) in awake monkeys carry visual- and/or saccade-related signals in addition to their auditory responses (P &lt; 0.05). The response patterns involve primarily excitatory visual responses, but also increased activity time-locked to the saccade, slow rises in activity time-locked to the onset of the visual stimulus, and inhibitory responses. The presence of these visual-related signals suggests that the IC plays a role in integrating visual and auditory information. More broadly, our results show that interactions between sensory pathways can occur at very early points in sensory processing streams, which implies that multisensory integration may be a low-level rather than an exclusively high-level process.
Thalamocortical in vivo and in vitro function was studied in mice lacking P/Q-type calcium channels (Cav2.1), in which N-type calcium channels (Cav2.2) supported central synaptic transmission. Unexpectedly, in vitro patch recordings from thalamic neurons demonstrated no gamma-band subthreshold oscillation, and voltage-sensitive dye imaging demonstrated an absence of cortical gamma-band-dependent columnar activation involving cortical inhibitory interneuron activity. In vivo electroencephalogram recordings showed persistent absence status and a dramatic reduction of gamma-band activity. Pharmacological block of T-type calcium channels (Cav3), although not noticeably affecting normal control animals, left the knockout mice in a coma-like state. Hence, although N-type calcium channels can rescue P/Q-dependent synaptic transmission, P/Q calcium channels are essential in the generation of gamma-band activity and resultant cognitive function.
Compared to young, older adults are more likely to forget events that occurred in the past as well as remember events that never happened. Previous studies examining false memories and aging have shown that these memories are more likely to occur when new items share perceptual or semantic similarities with those presented during encoding. It is theorized that decreased item-specific encoding and increased gist encoding contribute to these age differences in memory performance. The current study used a modified version of the Deese-Roediger-McDermott (DRM) paradigm to investigate the neural correlates of true and false memory encoding. Results indicated that, compared to young, older adults showed reduced activity in medial temporal lobes (MTL), left ventrolateral prefrontal cortex (VLPFC), and visual cortices associated with subsequent true memories. Despite these decreases older adults showed increased activity in right VLPFC and left superior temporal gyrus (STG) for subsequent true memories. Age-related increases in STG were also associated with subsequent false memories. Results support the theory that older adults engage in less item-specific encoding and greater gist encoding, and that these increases in gist encoding support both subsequent true and false memories. Furthermore, results extend findings of reduced frontal asymmetry in aging, often found in block designs, to the subsequent memory paradigm. Results suggest that greater bilateral frontal activity during encoding in aging are not just task-related, but may be associated with subsequent successful memory performance.
A previous transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) study [Ellison, A., &amp; Cowey, A. (2006). TMS can reveal contrasting functions of the dorsal and ventral visual processing streams. Experimental Brain Research, 175, 618-625] showed that both the dorsal and ventral cortical visual processing streams are involved in the processing of a task in which judgement of relative spatial position is required. In order to determine whether both streams are active in a parallel or serial manner, a double pulse TMS (20 Hz) experiment was carried out to expose peaks of disruption, indicative of when each of the areas under investigation is most potently involved. Results show that TMS over lateral occipital cortex produces greater disruption of performance than that provoked by TMS over posterior parietal cortex, significantly so when applied at 50 and 100 ms post-visual array onset. Both areas showed peaks of disruption up to 350 ms after visual stimulus onset. The results are discussed with respect to why each of these areas is involved in this task and what the pattern of their involvement reveals.
Patients with schizophrenia show attention deficit characterized by a larger validity effect (fast responses to cued than uncued stimuli) in the right visual field than in the left visual field. In addition, schizophrenia patients do not show inhibition of return (IOR--a mechanism that enables efficient visual search), unless attention is summoned back to the center after the peripheral cue. The present study examined the short-term effect of neuroleptic medications on these two components of visual spatial attention in schizophrenia patients. In order to do this we tested schizophrenia patients that were treated with long-acting neuroleptic medication. These patients were treated once a month, which allowed us to test them with either low or high levels of medication. Here we show that neuroleptic medications reverse the attentional hemispheric asymmetry. In the group with a high level of medication fast RTs to cued trials were found in the right visual field, while in the group with a low level of medication the opposite pattern was found - fast RTs to cued trials were found in the left visual field. In addition, level of medication did not influence IOR - regardless of the level of medication, IOR was observed only when attention was summoned back to the center, unlike control group. These finding suggest an imbalance in dopaminergic activity, possibly in subcortical structures such as the basal ganglia. This study also shows a dissociation between the two components of visual orienting of attention and suggests that facilitation and inhibition are independent processes.
Research investigating risk perception suggests that not only the quantitative parameters used in technical risk assessment (i.e., frequency and severity of harm) but also 'qualitative' aspects such as the dread a hazard provokes or its controllability influence risk judgments. It remains to be elucidated, however, which neural mechanism underlie risk ratings in healthy subjects. Using fMRI to detect changes in neural activity we compared the neural activations elicited by risk ratings with those elicited by a letter detection task performed on the same stimuli. The latter task served to control for basic stimulus processing, response selection and button-pressing during task performance. Risk ratings differentially activated the medial prefrontal cortex, the inferior frontal gyrus, the cerebellum (P&lt;0.05, FWE corrected, whole brain approach), and in an additional ROI analysis the amygdala (P&lt;0.05, FWE corrected). Of these structures, particularly the amygdala and the prefrontal cortex have been previously associated with decisions about affective interference. Furthermore our data suggest both, similarities and differences between the neural correlates of risk ratings and risk taking as involved, for e.g., in gambling tasks.
In the numerical Stroop paradigm (NSP) participants compare simultaneously presented Arabic digits based on either their numerical or on their physical size dimension. Responses are faster when the numerical and size dimensions are congruent with each other (facilitation), and responses are slower when the numerical and size dimensions are incongruent with each other (interference). We aimed to find out whether facilitation and interference appears during the course of perceptual or response processing. To this end, facilitation and interference effects in the amplitude of event-related brain potentials (ERPs) were examined. The onset of motor preparation was determined by monitoring the lateralized readiness potential. In numerical comparison one facilitation effect was related to perceptual processing at the level of the magnitude representation. A second facilitation effect and interference effects appeared during response processing. In size comparison facilitation and interference appeared exclusively during response processing. In both tasks, ERP interference effects were probably related to contextual analysis and to the conflict monitoring and selection for action activity of the anterior cingulate cortex. The results demonstrate that facilitation and interference effects in the NSP appear during multiple stages of processing, and that they are related to different cognitive processes. Therefore these effects should be clearly separated in studies of the NSP. A model of the processes involved in the NSP is provided and implications for studies of the NSP are drawn.
A lesion of striate cortex, area V1, produces blindness in the retinotopically corresponding part of the visual field, although in some cases visual abilities in the blind field remain that are paradoxically devoid of conscious visual percepts (&quot;blindsight&quot;). Here we demonstrate that the blindsight subject GY can experience visual sensations of phosphenes in his blind field induced by transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS). Such blind field percepts could only be induced when stimulation was applied bilaterally, i.e. over GY's area V5/MT in both hemispheres. Consistent with an earlier report [Cowey, A., &amp; Walsh, V. (2000). Magnetically induced phosphenes in sighted, blind and blindsighted observers. Neuroreport, 11, 3269-3273], GY never experienced phosphenes when stimulation was restricted to his ipsilesional V5/MT. To the best of our knowledge this is the first time GY has experienced visual qualia in his blind hemifield. The present report characterizes the necessary conditions for such conscious experience in his hemianopic visual field and interprets them as demonstrating that only via a contribution from GY's intact hemisphere can activation in the damaged hemisphere reach visual awareness.

Neurobiologists are becoming increasingly interested in how complex cognitive representations are formed by the integration of sensory stimuli. To this end, discrimination tasks are frequently used to assess perceptual and cognitive processes in animals, because they are easy to administer and score, and the ability of an animal to make a particular discrimination establishes beyond doubt that the necessary perceptual/cognitive processes are present. It does not, however, follow that absence of discrimination means the animal cannot make a particular perceptual judgement; it may simply mean that the animal did not manage to discover the relevant discriminative stimulus when trying to learn the task. Here, it is shown that rats did not learn a cross-modal object discrimination (requiring association of each object's visual appearance with its odour) when trained on the complete task from the beginning. However, they could eventually make the discrimination when trained on the component parts step by step, showing that they were able to do the necessary cross-modal integration in the right circumstances. This finding adds to growing evidence that discrimination tasks tend to encourage feature-based discrimination, perhaps by engaging automatic, habit-based brain systems. Thus, they may not be the best way to assess the formation of multi-dimensional stimulus representations of the kind needed in more complex cognitive processes such as declarative memory. Instead, more natural tasks such as spontaneous exploration may be preferable.
An event-related potential (ERP) with frontocentral negativity is known to be evoked by error responses, but may also occur on correct response trials. The error-related negativity (ERN) is thought to be generated in the anterior cingulate cortex (ACC). The current study aimed to further elucidate its functional significance as well as its neuronal correlates by directly comparing its amplitude and time course on correct and error trials in a continuous performance task (CPT). Results yielded a frontocentral positive potential preceding correct responses and a high amplitude post-response frontocentral negative potential during conditions involving response competition. To remove potential no-confounding effects of the positive component preceding the motor response, a second experiment was conducted where a red fixation cross served as a cue for potential response competition tendencies. Again, results yielded highest post-response amplitudes on correct trials involving response competition. The positive pre-response potential was eliminated by the visual cue. Interestingly, the cue led to an enhancement of the negative post-response component on trials without response competition. Taken together, the frontocentral post-response negativity might reflect evaluative rather than error-related processing.
The effects of chronic footshock (CFS) or chronic restraint (CRS) on the behavioral responses to acute footshock and corticotropin-releasing factor (CRF) were studied. Male rats were subjected to either footshock or restraint daily, or left undisturbed (Quiet). After 7 or 14 days treatment, they were placed in an unfamiliar footshock chamber and three footshocks administered at 20s intervals and subsequent freezing and ultrasonic vocalizations (USV's) were recorded. Context-conditioned freezing and USV's were recorded when rats were replaced in the chamber in which they had received the three footshocks. Prior CFS treatment decreased acute footshock-induced freezing and USV's, whereas it increased conditioned freezing and slightly increased conditioned USV's. CRS did not affect footshock-induced freezing, but in contrast to CFS, strongly increased USV's. Intracerebroventricular CRF (30 or 100ng) alone did not elicit freezing in either Quiet or CFS rats, nor did it have any effect on shock-induced freezing in either group. However, CRF increased conditioned freezing in Quiet, but not in CFS rats. CRF alone did not trigger USV's, but slightly increased shock-induced USV's in both Quiet and CFS rats, and significantly increased conditioned USV's in CFS rats. In the forced swim test (FST), chronic footshock did not induce consistent effects, although there was a trend to increased immobility. However, CRF increased immobility. In striking contrast to CFS, chronic restraint consistently decreased immobility. It is concluded that chronic stress has lasting effects on defensive responses. However, not all chronic stress procedures exert the same effects and thus different forms of stress may activate different neural mechanisms. The fact that CFS diminished shock-induced freezing and the effects of CRF on conditioned freezing suggests that CFS desensitizes the brain to CRF. On the other hand, the enhancement of conditioned freezing by CFS, and of conditioned USV's by CRF in CFS rats, indicates more complex effects.
Numerous peripheral and hypothalamic peptides control food intake. Among these signals are orexin, an orexigenic molecule released into the olfactory bulb by centrifugal hypothalamic fibres and leptin, an anorexigenic molecule that is released peripherally and can pass through the blood-brain barrier. In the present study, we injected either orexin or leptin, intracerebroventricularly, and their effect on olfactory performance was evaluated in two groups of rats, using a behavioral paradigm based on conditioned olfactory aversion. Rats were made aversive to water odorized with isoamyl acetate (ISO) at 10(-5) (1microl in 100ml of water). One group was injected with orexin versus saline and the other with leptin versus saline. They were then presented with different concentrations (lower than 10(-5)) of ISO-odorized water to compare their ability to avoid the ISO-drink. Orexin decreased ISO-drink consumption, showing increased avoidance of the ISO concentrations tested which ranged from 10(-9) to 10(-7). Conversely, the administration of leptin resulted in a dose dependant increase in the odorized-drink consumption for ISO 10(-10). Orexin therefore increases and leptin decreases olfactory sensitivity. Orexin and leptin modulate the olfactory performance in a similar way as do physiological induced fasting and satiation and appear to be important factors in the interdependency of olfaction and food intake.
EAAT2 (excitatory amino acid transporter 2) is a high affinity, Na+-dependent glutamate transporter of glial origin that is essential for the clearance of synaptically released glutamate and prevention of excitotoxicity. During the course of human amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) and in a transgenic mutant SOD1 mouse model of the disease, expression and activity of EAAT2 is remarkably reduced. We previously showed that some of the mutant SOD1 proteins exposed to oxidative stress inhibit EAAT2 by triggering caspase-3 cleavage of EAAT2 at a single defined locus. This gives rise to two fragments that we termed truncated EAAT2 and COOH terminus of EAAT2 (CTE). In this study, we report that analysis of spinal cord homogenates prepared from mutant G93A-SOD1 mice reveals CTE to be of a higher molecular weight than expected because it is conjugated with SUMO-1. The sumoylated CTE fragment (CTE-SUMO-1) accumulates in the spinal cord of these mice as early as presymptomatic stage (70 days of age) and not in other central nervous system areas unaffected by the disease. The presence and accumulation of CTE-SUMO-1 is specific to ALS mice, since it does not occur in the R6/2 mouse model for Huntington disease. Furthermore, using an astroglial cell line, primary culture of astrocytes, and tissue samples from G93A-SOD1 mice, we show that CTE-SUMO-1 is targeted to promyelocytic leukemia nuclear bodies. Since one of the proposed functions of promyelocytic leukemia nuclear bodies is regulation of gene transcription, we suggest a possible novel mechanism by which the glial glutamate transporter EAAT2 could contribute to the pathology of ALS.
Insomnia and sleep disturbance are associated with declines in health functioning, along with increases in mortality risk. Given the prominence of reported sleep disturbance in cocaine-dependent subjects and persistence into recovery, understanding the nature and severity of these disturbances in this population may help to identify relevant pathways that contribute to the increased mortality in cocaine dependence. Polysomnography provides a means of objectively characterizing sleep and, in turn, sleep disturbances. Few studies have used polysomnography to evaluate sleep in cocaine-dependent persons, yet these studies have the potential to advance treatments that will ultimately reduce morbidity in cocaine-dependent subjects.
Drug addiction is a devastating disease that affects millions of individuals worldwide. Through better understanding of the genetic variations that create a vulnerability for addiction and the molecular mechanisms that underlie the progression of addiction, better treatment options can be created for those that suffer from this condition. Recent studies point to a link between abnormal or disrupted circadian rhythms and the development of addiction. In addition, studies suggest a role for specific genes that make up the molecular clock in the regulation of drug sensitivity, sensitization, and reward. The influence of circadian genes and rhythms on drug-induced behaviors may be mediated through the mesolimbic dopaminergic system. This system has long been implicated in the development of addiction, and recent evidence supports a regulatory role for the brain's central pacemaker and circadian gene expression in the regulation of dopaminergic transmission. This review highlights the association between circadian genes and drug addiction, and the possible role of the mesolimbic dopaminergic system in this association.
MicroRNAs are a relatively new class of small noncoding RNAs that play an important role in post-transcriptional gene regulation during development and disease. MicroRNAs are abundant in the vertebrate nervous system where they appear to function during neuronal fate determination and early differentiation. It is now becoming increasingly clear that microRNAs are also involved in later stages of neuronal development, namely, the formation and plasticity of synapses. Furthermore, first examples are emerging that microRNAs might contribute to the etiology of neuronal diseases characterized by synaptic dysfunction. This review will summarize the recent examples that describe a function of microRNAs in synapse formation, plasticity, and disease, and discuss future directions that promise to shed light on microRNA regulation by synaptic activity and microRNA function in higher cognitive functions, such as learning and memory.
Contemporary biology has been revolutionized by a recently discovered class of small regulatory RNA molecules, microRNAs (miRNAs). Missed by researchers for decades due to their tiny size, usually mapping to non-protein-coding regions of genomes, miRNAs and miRNA-mediated regulatory networks have been the &quot;dark matter&quot; of molecular biology. Deciphering miRNA pathways and functions in the CNS of complex organisms is tightly linked to understanding miRNA expression patterns. To facilitate these emerging studies, I here review the basic principles of medium- and high-throughput technologies available for miRNA expression profiling.
Biological endophenotypes are more proximal to gene function than psychiatric diagnosis, providing a powerful strategy in searching for genes in psychiatric disorders. These intermediate phenotypes identify both affected and unaffected members of an affected family, including offspring at risk, providing a more direct connection with underlying biological vulnerability. The Collaborative Study on the Genetics of Alcoholism (COGA) has employed heritable neurophysiological features (i.e., brain oscillations) as endophenotypes, making it possible to identify susceptibility genes that may be difficult to detect with diagnosis alone. We found significant linkage and association between brain oscillations and genes involved with inhibitory neural networks (e.g., GABRA2, CHRM2), including frontal networks that are deficient in individuals with alcohol dependence, impulsivity, and related disinhibitory disorders. We reported significant linkage and linkage disequilibrium for the beta frequency of the EEG and GABRA2, a GABAA receptor gene on chromosome 4, which we found is also associated with diagnosis of alcohol dependence and related disorders. More recently, we found significant linkage and association with GABRA2 and interhemispheric theta coherence. We also reported significant linkage and linkage disequilibrium between the theta and delta event-related oscillations underlying P3 to target stimuli and CHRM2, a cholinergic muscarinic receptor gene on chromosome 7, which we found is also associated with diagnosis of alcohol dependence and related disorders. Thus, the identification of genes important for the expression of the endophenotypes (brain oscillations) helps when identifying genes that increase the susceptibility for risk of alcohol dependence and related disorders. These findings underscore the utility of quantitative neurophysiological endophenotypes in the study of the genetics of complex disorders. We will present our recent genetic findings related to brain oscillations and Central Nervous System (CNS) disinhibition.
This review will introduce the concept of toll-like receptor (TLR)-mediated glial activation as central to all of the following: neuropathic pain, compromised acute opioid analgesia, and unwanted opioid side effects (tolerance, dependence, and reward). Attenuation of glial activation has previously been demonstrated both to alleviate exaggerated pain states induced by experimental pain models and to reduce the development of opioid tolerance. Here we demonstrate that selective acute antagonism of TLR4 results in reversal of neuropathic pain as well as potentiation of opioid analgesia. Attenuating central nervous system glial activation was also found to reduce the development of opioid dependence, and opioid reward at a behavioral (conditioned place preference) and neurochemical (nucleus accumbens microdialysis of morphine-induced elevations in dopamine) level of analysis. Moreover, a novel antagonism of TLR4 by (+)- and (-)-isomer opioid antagonists has now been characterized, and both antiallodynic and morphine analgesia potentiating activity shown. Opioid agonists were found to also possess TLR4 agonistic activity, predictive of glial activation. Targeting glial activation is a novel and as yet clinically unexploited method for treatment of neuropathic pain. Moreover, these data indicate that attenuation of glial activation, by general or selective TLR antagonistic mechanisms, may also be a clinical method for separating the beneficial (analgesia) and unwanted (tolerance, dependence, and reward) actions of opioids, thereby improving the safety and efficacy of their use.
Though accumulating evidence shows that the metabotropic glutamate receptor 5 (mGluR5) mediates some of the actions of extracellular glutamate after cocaine use, the cellular events underlying this action are poorly understood. In this review, we will discuss recent results showing that mGluR5 receptors are key regulators of astrocyte activity. Synaptic release of glutamate activates mGluR5 expressed in perisynaptic astrocytes and generates intense Ca2+ signaling in these cells. Ca2+ oscillations, in turn, trigger the release from astrocytes of the gliotransmitter glutamate, which modulates neuronal excitability by activating NMDA receptors. By integrating these results with the most recent evidence demonstrating the importance of astrocytes in the regulation of neuronal excitability, we propose that astrocytes are involved in mediating some of the mGluR5-dependent drug-induced behaviors.

Dendritic spines are morphologically specialized structures that receive the vast majority of central excitatory synaptic inputs. Studies have implicated changes in the size, shape, and number of dendritic spines in activity-dependent plasticity, and have further demonstrated that spine morphology is highly dependent on the dynamic organizational and scaffolding properties of its postsynaptic density (PSD). In vitro and in vivo models of experience-dependent plasticity have linked changes in the localization of glutamate receptors at the PSD with a molecular reorganization of the PSD and alterations in spine morphology. Chronic ethanol consumption results in adaptive changes in neuronal function that manifest as tolerance, physical dependence, and addiction. A potential mechanism supporting these adaptive changes that we recently identified is the homeostatic targeting of NR2B-containing NMDA receptors to the synapse. This increase is associated with and dependent on a corresponding increase in the localization of the scaffolding protein PSD-95 at the PSD, and with an actin-dependent increase in the size of dendritic spines. These observations led us to propose a molecular model for ethanol-induced plasticity at excitatory synapses in which increases in NR2B-containing NMDA receptors and PSD-95 at the PSD provide an expanded scaffolding platform for the recruitment and activation of signaling molecules that regulate spine actin dynamics, protein translation, and synaptic plasticity. This model is consistent with accumulating evidence that glutamatergic modulation of spine actin by the PSD plays a role in the aberrant plasticity of addiction.
Chronic pain can have a major effect on both workers and the workplace. Collaboration among workers, occupational health nurses, and specialist providers is important for ongoing management of mechanism-based therapies for chronic pain. This article examines collaborative care issues relative to nerve stimulation and intrathecal drug delivery systems.

Midline posterior fossa mass lesions in young adults are usually medulloblastomas, pilocytic astrocytomas, haemangioblastomas or ependymomas. We present clinical, imaging and intraoperative findings of an abscess occurring within the fourth ventricle which was associated with right chronic suppurative otitis media and right transverse sinus thrombosis. The possible pathogenesis is discussed.

Venous air embolism (VAE) is a well known complication in procedures where the operative field is above the level of the heart. Acute pulmonary oedema after a large air embolus occurring during neurosurgery is also a recognized phenomenon. However, pulmonary oedema following repeated episodes of VAE in sublabial transsphenoidal (SLTS) surgery for pituitary adenoma has never been reported. We describe a case of VAE in a 65 year old male undergoing SLTS surgery for pituitary adenoma. Following this, the patient had pulmonary oedema which resolved on supportive treatment. Pulmonary oedema as a result of VAE may go unrecognised intraoperatively but can lead to a significant postoperative morbidity. Early suspicion and recognition of VAE and institution of aggressive treatment will help to avoid fatal consequences.
BACKGROUND - To evaluate cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) markers for neuronal degeneration and demyelination in idiopathic normal pressure hydrocephalus (INPH), subcortical arteriosclerotic encephalopathy (SAE), and neurologically healthy subjects. METHODS - Lumbar CSF concentrations of sulfatide, neurofilament protein light (NFL), total-tau (T-tau), hyperphosphorylated tau (P-tau), and beta-amyloid(1-42) (Abeta42) were analyzed in 62 INPH patients, 26 SAE patients, and 23 neurologically healthy controls. In INPH patients, samples before and after shunt surgery were analysed. RESULTS - The CSF concentration of NFL was elevated in INPH and SAE compared with the controls, and levels of T-tau, P-tau, and Abeta42 were lower in INPH compared with SAE and controls. No difference was seen for sulfatide. All markers except Abeta42 were significantly elevated after shunt surgery. CONCLUSIONS - The most striking finding was the power of the combined pattern of NFL, P-tau, and Abeta42 in distinguishing between the clinical diagnoses of INPH, SAE, and neurologically healthy elderly.







We examined predictors for age at onset of first alcohol use and onset of heaviest alcohol use among men (n = 43) and women (n = 46) with alcohol dependence and PTSD, PTSD only, alcohol dependence only, and controls, with a particular focus on individuals with child versus adult trauma. Using analysis of variance procedures, results showed differences in onset of first alcohol use and heaviest drinking between childhood and adulthood trauma victims. These preliminary results indicate that behavioral mechanisms associated with alcohol use patterns between individuals with childhood and adulthood trauma are dissimilar, suggesting greater psychopathological consequences for individuals with childhood trauma.
Estrogen receptors (ERs) are members of the nuclear receptor superfamily and are involved in regulation of fallopian tube functions (i.e., enhancement of protein secretion, formation of tubal fluid, and regulation of gamete transport). However, the ER subtype-mediated mechanisms underlying these processes have not been completely clarified. Recently, we identified ERbeta expression and localization in rat fallopian tubes, suggesting a potential biological function of ERbeta related to calcium-dependent ciliated beating. Here we provide for the first time insight into the less studied ERalpha isoforms, which mediate estrogen-dependent production and secretion of IGFs in vivo. First, Western blot studies revealed that three ERalpha isoforms were expressed in mouse fallopian tubes. Subsequent immunohistochemical analysis showed that ERalpha was detected in all cell types, whereas ERbeta was mainly localized in ciliated epithelial cells. Second, ERalpha isoform levels were dramatically downregulated in mouse fallopian tubes by treatment with E(2) or PPT, an ERalpha agonist, in a time-dependent manner. Third, the presence of ICI 182,780, an ER antagonist, blocked the E(2)- or PPT-induced downregulation of tubal ERalpha isoform expression in mice. However, alteration of ERalpha immunoreactivity following ICI 182,780 treatment was only detected in epithelial cells of the ampullary region. Fourth, changes in ERalpha isoform expression were found to be coupled to multiple E(2) effects on tubal growth, protein synthesis, and secretion in mouse fallopian tube tissues and fluid. In particular, E(2) exhibited positive regulation of IGF-I and IGF-II protein levels. Finally, using growth hormone receptor (GHR) gene-disrupted mice, we showed that regulation by E(2) of IGF production was independent of GH-induced GHR signaling in mouse fallopian tubes in vivo. These data, together with previous studies from our laboratory, suggest that the long-term effects of estrogen agonist promote IGF synthesis and secretion in mouse tubal epithelial cells and fallopian tube fluid via stimulation of ERalpha.
The nature of the circadian signal from the suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN) required for prolactin (PRL) surges is unknown. Because the SCN neuronal circadian rhythm is determined by a feedback loop of Period (Per) 1, Per2, and circadian locomotor output cycles kaput (Clock) gene expressions, we investigated the effect of SCN rhythmicity on PRL surges by disrupting this loop. Because lesion of the locus coeruleus (LC) abolishes PRL surges and these neurons receive SCN projections, we investigated the role of SCN rhythmicity in the LC neuronal circadian rhythm as a possible component of the circadian mechanism regulating PRL surges. Cycling rats on proestrous day and estradiol-treated ovariectomized rats received injections of antisense or random-sequence deoxyoligonucleotide cocktails for clock genes (Per1, Per2, and Clock) in the SCN, and blood samples were taken for PRL measurements. The percentage of tyrosine hydroxylase-positive neurons immunoreactive to Fos-related antigen (FRA) was determined in ovariectomized rats submitted to the cocktail injections and in a 12:12-h light:dark (LD) or constant dark (DD) environment. The antisense cocktail abolished both the proestrous and the estradiol-induced PRL surges observed in the afternoon and the increase of FRA expression in the LC neurons at Zeitgeber time 14 in LD and at circadian time 14 in DD. Because SCN afferents and efferents were probably preserved, the SCN rhythmicity is essential for the magnitude of daily PRL surges in female rats as well as for LC neuronal circadian rhythm. SCN neurons therefore determine PRL secretory surges, possibly by modulating LC circadian neuronal activity.
Free fatty acids (FFA) are important extracellular and intracellular signaling molecules and are thought to be involved in beta-adrenergic-induced remodeling of adipose tissue, which involves a transient inflammatory response followed by mitochondrial biogenesis and increased oxidative capacity. This work examined the role of hormone-sensitive lipase (HSL), a key enzyme of acylglycerol metabolism, in white adipose tissue (WAT) remodeling using genetic inactivation or pharmacological inhibition. Acute treatment with the beta(3)-adrenergic agonist CL-316,243 (CL) induced expression of inflammatory markers and caused extravasation of myeloid cells in WAT of wild-type (WT) mice. HSL-knockout (KO) mice had elevated inflammatory gene expression in the absence of stimulation, and acute injection of CL did not further recruit myeloid cells, nor did it further elevate inflammatory gene expression. Acute pharmacological inhibition of HSL with BAY 59-9435 (BAY) had no effect on inflammatory gene expression in WAT or in cultured 3T3-L1 adipocytes. However, BAY prevented induction of inflammatory cytokines by beta-adrenergic stimulation in WAT in vivo and in cultured 3T3-L1 adipocytes. Chronic CL treatment stimulated mitochondrial biogenesis, expanded oxidative capacity, and increased lipid droplet fragmentation in WT mice, and these effects were significantly impaired in HSL-KO mice. In contrast to HSL-KO mice, mice with defective signaling of Toll-like receptor 4, a putative FFA receptor, showed normal beta-adrenergic-induced remodeling of adipose tissue. Overall, results reveal the importance of HSL activity in WAT metabolic plasticity and inflammation.
Animal studies on diabetic gastroparesis are limited by inability to follow gastric emptying changes in the same mouse. The study aim was to validate a nonlethal gastric emptying method in nonobese diabetic (NOD) LtJ mice, a model of type 1 diabetes, and study sequential changes with age and early diabetic status. The reliability and responsiveness of a [(13)C]octanoic acid breath test in NOD LtJ mice was tested, and the test was used to measure solid gastric emptying in NOD LtJ mice and nonobese diabetes resistant (NOR) LtJ mice. The (13)C breath test produced results similar to postmortem recovery of a meal. Bethanechol accelerated gastric emptying [control: 92 +/- 9 min; bethanechol: 53 +/- 3 min, mean half emptying time (T(1/2)) +/- SE], and atropine slowed gastric emptying (control: 92 +/- 9 min; atropine: 184 +/- 31 min, mean T(1/2) +/- SE). Normal gastric emptying (T(1/2)) in nondiabetic NOD LtJ mice (8-12 wk) was 91 +/- 2 min. Aging had differing effects on gastric emptying in NOD LtJ and NOR LtJ mice. Onset of diabetes was accompanied by accelerated gastric emptying during weeks 1-2 of diabetes. Gastric emptying returned to normal by weeks 3-5 with no delay. The [(13)C]octanoic acid breath test accurately measures gastric emptying in NOD LtJ mice, is useful to study the time course of changes in gastric emptying in diabetic NOD LtJ mice, and is able to detect acceleration in gastric emptying early in diabetes. Opposing changes in gastric emptying between NOD LtJ and NOR LtJ mice suggest that NOR LtJ mice are not good controls for the study of gastric emptying in NOD LtJ mice.
Social stress resulting from dominant-subordinate relationships is associated with body weight loss and altered body composition in subordinate (SUB) male rats. Here, we extend these findings to determine whether stress-induced changes in energy homeostasis persist when the social stress is removed, and the animal is allowed to recover. We examined body weight (BW), body composition, and relevant endocrine measures after one or two cycles of 14 days of social stress, each followed by 21 days of recovery in each rat's individual home cage. SUB lost significantly more BW during social housing in a visible burrow system (VBS) compared with dominant (DOM) animals. Weight loss during social stress was attributable to a decrease in adipose tissue in DOM and SUB, with an additional loss of lean tissue in SUB. During both 21-day recovery periods, DOM and SUB regained lost BW, but only SUB were hyperphagic. Following recovery, SUB had a relatively larger increase in adipose tissue and plasma leptin compared with DOM, indicating that body composition changes were dependent on social status. Control animals that were weight matched to SUB or male rats exposed to the VBS environment without females, and that did not form a social hierarchy, did not exhibit changes in body composition like SUB in the VBS. Therefore, chronic social stress causes social status-dependent changes in BW, composition and endocrine measures that persist after repeated stress and recovery cycles and that may ultimately lead to metabolic disorders and obesity.
The root cause for most cases of autosomal-dominant polycystic kidney disease (ADPKD) is mutations in the polycystin-1 (PC1) gene. While PC1 has been implicated in a perplexing variety of protein interactions and signaling pathways, what its normal function is and why its disruption leads to the proliferation of renal epithelial cells are unknown. Recent results suggest that PC1 is involved in mechanotransduction by primary cilia measuring the degree of luminal fluid flow. PC1 has also recently been shown to regulate the mTOR and signal transducers and activators of transcription (STAT) 6 pathways. These two pathways are normally dormant in the healthy kidney but are activated in response to injury and appear to drive a proliferative repair response. This review develops the idea that a critical function of PC1 and primary cilia in the adult kidney may be to sense renal injury by detecting changes in luminal fluid flow and to trigger proliferation. Constitutive activation of these pathways in ADPKD would lead to the futile attempt to repair a nonexisting injury, resulting in cyst growth. The existence of many known cellular and molecular similarities between renal repair and ADPKD supports this model.
Visceral organ &quot;cross talk&quot; is suspected to contribute to multiorgan symptomatology found in conditions such as irritable bowel syndrome and interstitial cystitis. The goal of the present study was to investigate the short- and long-term effects of acute colitis on bladder detrusor muscle contractility. We hypothesized that inflammation of the colon leads to changes in bladder function via direct changes in detrusor smooth muscle contractility. In this study, colonic inflammation was induced in male rats via an enema of trinitrobenzenesulfonic acid (TNBS) (50 mg/kg, 0.5 ml, 25% ethanol). Colitis was confirmed using gross morphology, histology, and measurements of myeloperoxidase activity. Saline enema-treated rats served as controls. Three, 15, and 30 days postenema treatment, bladder detrusor muscle contractility was investigated in response to electrical field stimulation (EFS), cholinergic agonism with carbachol (CCh), and KCl. During active colonic inflammation (day 3 post-TNBS enema), the bladder detrusor muscle appeared normal and showed no significant inflammation. However, abnormalities in bladder detrusor muscle contractility occurred in response to EFS and CCh but not KCl. During and after recovery from colonic inflammation (days 15 and 30 post-TNBS enema), changes in bladder detrusor muscle contractility in response to EFS and CCh returned to control levels. We found that a transient colonic inflammatory insult significantly attenuates the amplitude of bladder detrusor muscle contractions in vitro, at least in part, through changes in cholinergic innervation, which are reversible after recovery from the colitis.

Seasonal depression shares certain common symptoms with nonseasonal depression; however, the two disorders have never been examined in a single study, to the authors' knowledge. The goal of this research was to examine the potential similarities in cognitive impairments in seasonal affective disorder and major depressive disorder in college students in the Midwest. Identification of affective disorders was based on participants' self-reported behavior and affect on the Beck Depression Inventory and the Seasonal Pattern Assessment Questionnaire. A group of 93 participants was assessed for major depressive disorder and seasonal affective disorder in late autumn and completed the Cognitive Failures Questionnaire for reported difficulties in everyday activities that correspond to problems with perception, attention, and memory retrieval. The results indicated that seasonal affective disorder was highly prevalent (28.0%), substantially more so than major depressive disorder (8.6%). Similar to previous research on major depressive disorder, gender differences were also evident among participants with seasonal affective disorder, with more women qualifying than men. Both affective disorders were associated with higher reports of cognitive failures in comparison to participants with no depressive symptoms. These results reveal that individuals with seasonal affective disorder showed cognitive impairments similar to those with nonseasonal depression.
We investigated tobacco industry documents and other sources for evidence of possible pharmacological and chemical effects of tobacco additives. Our findings indicated that more than 100 of 599 documented cigarette additives have pharmacological actions that camouflage the odor of environmental tobacco smoke emitted from cigarettes, enhance or maintain nicotine delivery, could increase the addictiveness of cigarettes, and mask symptoms and illnesses associated with smoking behaviors. Whether such uses were specifically intended for these agents is unknown. Our results provide a clear rationale for regulatory control of tobacco additives.

The research on positive psychotherapy outcome consistently indicates that the quality of the alliance is important across different models of psychotherapy (D. E. Orlinsky, M. H. Ronnestad, &amp; U. Willutzki, 2004; B. E. Wampold, 2000). Social psychological research has documented how &quot;unintentional bias&quot; can produce barriers to university admissions, employment, and advancement of well-qualified members of ethnic minority groups (J. F. Dovidio, S. L. Gaertner, K. Kawakami, &amp; G. Hodson, 2002). Neuroscience is further confirming social psychological responses associated with race (J. L. Eberhard, 2005). Unintentional bias identified in social psychological research may be part of the psychotherapist/client interaction, interfere with the therapeutic alliance, and partly account for the high dropout rates and underutilization of psychotherapeutic services by people of color. The purpose of this article is to provide an evidence-based analysis of how psychologists in practice may unintentionally interfere with development of quality alliances with culturally different clients or patients and thus contribute to the barriers to effective multicultural counseling and psychotherapy. Principles from the American Psychological Association's (2003) multicultural guidelines and a review of relevant research are applied in suggesting strategies to reduce bias and to develop culturally appropriate skills in psychological practices.

We describe the selective measurement of extracellular glutamate concentration in rodent brain using ceramic-based platinum microelectrode arrays (MEAs) coated with electropolymerized, over-oxidized polypyrrole (OPP) as a permselective barrier to interference from dopamine and ascorbate. OPP-coated MEAs displayed similar sensitivity (97 +/- 9 nA microM(-1) cm(-2)) and response time (ca. 1 s) to glutamate as previously described Nafion-coated MEAs but, unlike Nafion-coated MEAs, were unresponsive to 5 microM dopamine. Such OPP-coated MEAs afforded selective detection of evoked glutamate release in the dopamine-rich striatum of the mouse brain.

We developed a mathematical model of human respiration in the awake state that can be used to predict changes in ventilation, blood gases, and other critical variables during conditions of hypocapnia, hypercapnia and these conditions combined with hypoxia. Hence, the model is capable of describing ventilation changes due to the hypocapnic-hypoxia of high altitude. The basic model is that of Grodins et al. [Grodins, F. S., J. Buell, and A. J. Bart. J. Appl. Physiol. 22:260-276, 1967]. We updated the descriptions of (1) the effects of blood gases on cardiac output and cerebral blood flow, (2) acid-base balance in blood and tissues, (3) O2 and CO2 binding to hemoglobin and most importantly, (4) the respiratory-chemostat controller. The controller consists of central and peripheral sections. The central chemoceptor-induced ventilation response is simply a linear function of brain P(CO2) above a threshold value. The peripheral response has both a linear term similar to that for the central chemoceptors, but dependent upon carotid body P(CO2) and with a different threshold and a complex, nonlinear term that includes multiplication of separate terms involving carotid body P(O2) and P(CO2). Together, these terms produce 'dogleg'-shaped curves of ventilation plotted against P(CO2) which form a fan-like family for different values of P(CO2). With this chemical controller, our model closely describes a wide range of experimental data under conditions of solely changes in P(CO2) and for short-term hypoxia coupled with P(CO2) changes. This model can be used to accurately describe changes in ventilation and respiratory gases during ascent and during short-term residence at altitude. Hence, it has great applicability to studying O2-delivery systems in aircraft.
Being fed up with something is a prevalent and fundamental human experience. Although the relevance of mental satiation, that is, the process of becoming fed up with an action, is highly acknowledged in organizational psychology, almost no empirical research has examined this concept. In this article, we take a social cognitive neuroscience approach to mental satiation. By building on and extending the classic work of Lewin and Karsten, we propose a new model of mental satiation that focuses on the cognitive, motivational, and neural processes underlying mental satiation. Our model starts with the assumption that repeated performance of an action undermines one's need for competence and hence leads to a loss of intrinsic motivation. We then distinguish between two phases of the satiation process: The first phase is characterized by a loss of intrinsic motivation to perform the action. The second phase starts when the intrinsic motivation has vanished and volitional control is required to continue the action. We predict that the loss of intrinsic motivation in the first phase of the satiation process is correlated with a decrease in activity in brain regions associated with positive hedonic experience, such as the nucleus accumbens, the ventral pallidum, and the medial orbitofrontal cortex. In contrast, the growing aversion toward the action during the second phase of the satiation process is predicted to be correlated with an increase in activity in brain regions associated with unpleasant affect and volitional control, such as the amygdala, the anterior insula, and the anterior cingulate cortex.
Social neuroscience is an emerging interdisciplinary field that combines tools from cognitive, cellular, and molecular neuroscience to understand the neural mechanisms underlying human interactions, emphasizing the complementary nature of different organization levels in the social and biological domains. Previous studies focused on the molecular/neuronal substrates of a variety of complex behaviors, such as parental behavior and pair bonding. Less is known about the various factors influencing interindividual differences in reward processing and decision making in social contexts, both relying upon the dopaminergic system. This review concerns (1) basic electrophysiological findings and recent neuroimaging findings showing that reward processing and social interaction processes share common neural substrates and (2) genetic and hormonal influences on these processes. Recent research combining molecular genetics, endocrinology, and neuroimaging demonstrated that variations in dopamine-related genes and in hormone levels affect the physiological properties of the dopaminergic system in nonhuman primates and modulate the processing of reward and social information in humans. These findings are important because they indicate the neural influence of genes conferring vulnerability to develop neuropathologies such as drug addiction and pathological gambling. Taken together, the reviewed data start to unveil the relationships between genes, hormones, and the functioning of the reward system, as well as decision making in social contexts, and provide a link between molecular, cellular, and social cognitive levels in humans.
The research strategy adopted in this article is to connect two different discourses and the ideas, methods, and outputs they contain-these being cognitive neuroscience and organization theory. The main contribution of the article is to present an agenda for the field of organizational cognitive neuroscience. We define what is meant by the term, outline its background, identify why it is important as a new research direction, and then conclude by drawing on Damasio's levels of life regulation as a framework to bind together existing organizational cognitive neuroscience. The article begins by setting the wider debate behind the emergence of organizational cognitive neuroscience by revisiting the nature-nurture debate and uses Pinker to demonstrate that the connection between mind and matter has not been resolved, that new directions are opening up to better understand human nature, and that organizational cognitive neuroscience is one fruitful path forward.
Corporate citizenship creates an ethical and professional accountability among the employee, the organization, and the outside market. Teamwork is an essential part of this corporate accountability because it increases communication and confidence within the organization and promotes camaraderie and goal completion. Cognitive neuroscience research has been able to localize socialization to various areas of the limbic system, which includes, among other structures, the hypothalamus and amygdala, and is associated with the prefrontal cortex. These neurocortical areas can be monitored while set tasks are performed experimentally or observed naturally. Within the framework of cognitive neuroscience, one can evaluate the neural architecture involved in various states of organizational behavior. One can then use this framework as an overlay in the corporate environment to track project completion and profitability.
Although organizational research has made tremendous strides in the last century, recent advances in neuroscience and the imaging of functional brain activity remain underused. In fact, even the use of well-established psychophysiological measurement tools is comparatively rare. Following the lead of social cognitive neuroscience, in this review, we conceptualize organizational cognitive neuroscience as a field dedicated to exploring the processes within the brain that underlie or influence human decisions, behaviors, and interactions either (a) within organizations or (b) in response to organizational manifestations or institutions. We discuss organizational cognitive neuroscience, bringing together work that may previously have been characterized rather atomistically, and provide a brief overview of individual methods that may be of use. Subsequently, we discuss the possible convergence and integration of the different neuroimaging and psychophysiological measurement modalities. A brief review of prior work in the field shows a significant need for a more coherent and theory-driven approach to organizational cognitive neuroscience. In response, we discuss a recent example of such work, along with three hypothetical case studies that exemplify the link between organizational and psychological theory and neuroscientific methods.
To motivate their consumers or employees, corporations often offer monetary incentives, such as cash-back deals or salary bonuses. However, human behavior is not solely driven by material outcome; fairness and equity matter as well. In a recent neuroimaging study, fair offers led to higher happiness ratings and increased activity in several reward regions of the brain compared with unfair offers of equal monetary value. Other neuroimaging studies have similarly shown activation in reward regions in response to cooperative partners or cooperative play. Here, we review these findings and discuss the implications for organizational settings.
In this article, we identify research possibilities for organizational cognitive neuroscience that emerge from the papers in this special issue. We emphasize the intriguing finding that the papers share a common theme-the use of cognitive neuroscience to investigate the role of emotions in organizational behavior; this suggests a research agenda in its own right. We conclude the article by stressing that there is much yet to discover about how the mind works, especially in organizational settings.
Resolution of a critical organizational problem requires the use of carefully selected techniques. This is the work of a management consultant: facilitating a business change process in an organizational setting. Here, an account is provided of a practitioner's reflections on one such case study that demonstrates a structure for a business change process. The reflective account highlights certain affective states and social behaviors that were extracted from participants during the business change process. These affective states and social behaviors are mediated by specific neural networks in the brain that are activated during organizational intervention. By breaking down the process into the affective states and social behaviors highlighted, cognitive neuroscience can be a useful tool for investigating the neural substrates of such intervention. By applying a cognitive neuroscience approach to examine organizational change, it is possible to converge on a greater understanding of the neural substrates of everyday social behavior.
This article reviews research on cognition, language, organizational culture, brain, behavior, and evolution to posit the value of operating with a stable reference point based on cognitive accuracy and a rational bias. Drawing on rational-emotive behavioral science, social neuroscience, and cognitive organizational science on the one hand and a general model of brain and frontal lobe executive function on the other, I suggest implications for organizational success. Cognitive thought processes depend on specific brain structures functioning as effectively as possible under conditions of cognitive accuracy. However, typical cognitive processes in hierarchical business structures promote the adoption and application of subjective organizational beliefs and, thus, cognitive inaccuracies. Applying informed frontal lobe executive functioning to cognition, emotion, and organizational behavior helps minimize the negative effects of indiscriminate application of personal and cultural belief systems to business. Doing so enhances cognitive accuracy and improves communication and cooperation. Organizations operating with cognitive accuracy will tend to respond more nimbly to market pressures and achieve an overall higher level of performance and employee satisfaction.
Neuroscience promises to act as a catalyst, in the longer run, in seeking re-unification of the fragmented social sciences (e.g., political science and economics) and social action subjects (e.g., public administration and business administration) that concern governance. Neuroscience can achieve this because it reveals that taken-for-granted concepts, and the language used to express them, should be challenged. What should be sought is a language called in this paper Neuro-Gov.
After the application form is submitted, the interview is the most important method of human resource allocation. Previous research has shown that the attractiveness of interviewees can significantly bias interview outcome. We have previously shown that female interviewers give attractive male interviewees higher status job packages compared their average looking counterparts. However, it is not known whether male interviewers exhibit such biases. In the present study, participants were asked to take part in a mock job negotiation scenario where they had to allocate either a high- or low-status job package to attractive or average looking &quot;interviewees.&quot; Before each decision was made, the participant's anticipatory electrodermal response (EDR) was recorded. The results supported our previous finding in that female participants allocated a greater number of high-status job packages to attractive men. Additionally, male participants uniformly allocated a greater number of low-status job packages to both attractive men and attractive women. Overall, the average looking interviewees incurred a penalty and received a significantly greater number of low-status job packages. In general, the EDR profile for both male and female participants was significantly greater when allocating the low-status packages to the average looking interviewees. However, the male anticipatory EDR profile showed the greatest change when allocating attractive women with low-status job packages. We discuss these findings in terms of the potential biases that may occur at the job interview and place them within an evolutionary psychology framework.
Fluid-induced shear stress is widely recognized as an important biophysical signal in cell-cell mechanotransduction. To identify cellular signaling pathways that are regulated by fluid shear stress, we applied the unbiased approach of transcriptional profiling. Our cDNA array analysis detected that 1,165 of the 6,288 sampled unigenes were significantly affected by pulsatile fluid flow. GenMapp 2.1 analysis revealed pathways of genes regulated by shear stress: angiogenesis, blood vessel morphogenesis, regulation of endothelial cell proliferation, and prostaglandin biosynthesis. Individual genes significantly up-/downregulated by shear stress included vascular endothelial growth factor A (Vegf a), cysteine-rich protein 61 (Cyr61), platelet-derived growth factor-alpha (Pdgf a), connective tissue growth factor (Ctgf), Neuropilin 1 (Nrp1), angiotensin II receptor, type 1 a (Agtr1 a) and fibroblast growth factor 1 (Fgf1). Based on these findings, we hypothesize that fluid shear stress-regulated Vegf most likely stimulates MC3T3-E1 cells through autocrine/paracrine release and may provide a powerful recruitment signal for osteoclasts, endothelial cells, and/or stem cells during bone remodeling.


Hydrogen sulfide (H2S) can enzymatically be produced from cysteine in the brain. H2S functions as a synaptic modulator as well as a neuroprotectant from oxidative stress in the brain. Here we show that H2S specifically enhances the reducing activity in neurons and mouse neuroblastoma Neuro2a cells. An inhibitor of protein tyrosine kinase, genistein, suppresses the effect of H2S, suggesting that tyrosine kinase may be involved in the enhancement of reducing activity by H2S. The H2S-specific enhancement of the reducing activity in neurons may lead to a neurotrophic role in the brain.
Glioblastoma is the most prevalent and highly malignant brain tumor that continues to defy current treatment strategies. This investigation used all-trans retinoic acid (ATRA) and taxol (TXL) as a combination therapy for controlling the growth of human glioblastoma T98G xenografted in athymic nude mice. Histopathological examination revealed that ATRA induced differentiation and combination of ATRA and TXL caused more apoptosis than either treatment alone. Combination therapy decreased expression of telomerase, nuclear factor kappa B (NFkappacapital VE, Cyrillic), and inhibitor-of-apoptosis proteins (IAPs) indicating suppression of survival factors while upregulated Smac/Diablo. Combination therapy also changed expression of Bax and Bcl-2 proteins leading to increased Bax:Bcl-2 ratio, mitochondrial release of cytochrome c and apoptosis-inducing factor (AIF), and activation of caspase-9. Increased activities of calpain and caspase-3 degraded 270 kD alpha-spectrin at the specific sites to generate 145 kD spectrin breakdown product (SBDP) and 120 kD SBDP, respectively. Further, increased activity of caspase-3 cleaved inhibitor-of-caspase-activated DNase (ICAD). In situ double immunofluorescent labelings showed overexpression of calpain, caspase-12, caspase-3, and AIF during apoptosis, suggesting involvement of both caspase-dependent and caspase-independent pathways for apoptosis. Our investigation revealed that treatment of glioblastoma T98G xenografts with the combination of ATRA and TXL induced differentiation and multiple molecular mechanisms for apoptosis.


Reflected at any level of organization of the central nervous system, most of the processes ranging from ion channels to neuronal networks occur in a closed loop, where the input to the system depends on its output. In contrast, most in vitro preparations and experimental protocols operate autonomously, and do not depend on the output of the studied system. Thanks to the progress in digital signal processing and real-time computing, it is now possible to artificially close the loop and investigate biophysical processes and mechanisms under increased realism. In this contribution, we review some of the most relevant examples of a new trend in in vitro electrophysiology, ranging from the use of dynamic-clamp to multi-electrode distributed feedback stimulation. We are convinced these represents the beginning of new frontiers for the in vitro investigation of the brain, promising to open the still existing borders between theoretical and experimental approaches while taking advantage of cutting edge technologies.
The distribution and geometry of the dendritic trees of spinal motoneurons obey several well-established rules. Some of these rules are based on systematic relationships between quantitative geometrical features (e.g. total dendritic length) and the three-dimensional trajectory followed by dendrites from their origin to their termination. Since dendritic geometry partially determines the transmission of current and voltage signals generated by synapses on the dendritic tree, our goal was to compare the efficacy of signal transmission by dendritic trajectories that followed different directions. To achieve this goal, we constructed detailed compartmental models of the dendritic trees of intracellularly stained neck motoneurons and calculated the electrotonic properties of each soma-to-terminal trajectory. These properties displayed a high degree of variability. To determine if this variability was due, in part, to the orientation (e.g. rostral, rostral-dorsal-lateral) of the trajectory, each trajectory was classified according to its orientation. The attenuation of current and voltage signals en route to the soma were strongly related to trajectory orientation. Trajectories with similar attenuation factors formed functional subunits that were arranged in distinct domains within the ventral horn. The difference in the efficacy of signal transmission between subunits was increased by activation of neighbouring synapses due to trajectory-related differences in non-linear summation. These results indicate that the input-output properties of motoneurons depend on the direction of the path taken by dendrites from their origin at the cell body to their terminals.

Dry mouth produces a deterioration in oral health and impairs quality of life. There is a need for a novel approach to the pharmacological treatment of dry mouth. With a view to enhancing the cholinergic drive on minor salivary glands, whilst at the same time minimising adverse systemic effects, the cholinesterase inhibitor physostigmine was therefore sprayed, in a fixed volume, onto the oral mucosa of seven healthy subjects. Three concentrations (0.5%, 1% and 2%) were tested. The mean salivary output over time (0-105 min) was higher than that of placebo (p&lt;0.05), as the area under the curve increased by 61%, 91% and 66% at physostigmine 0.5%, 1% and 2%, respectively. Two subjects experienced nausea at the highest physostigmine concentration, thus reflecting systemic effects. Heart rate, blood pressure and respiration were unaffected by the physostigmine treatment.


The IkappaB kinase (IKK)/NFkappaB signaling pathway plays an essential role in the development and survival of many types of cancers including adult T-cell leukemia (ATL) caused by the human T-cell leukemia virus type I (HTLV-I) infection. Accordingly, targeting NFkappaB provides an attractive strategy for cancer therapy. We recently found that specific inhibition of Hsp90 by geldanamycin (GA) results in autophagic degradation of IKK and NFkappaB-inducing kinase (NIK), an upstream kinase of IKK, and inactivation of NFkappaB in various cell lines. Here, we further report that GA inhibition of Hsp90 also led to IKK autophagic degradation and NFkappaB inhibition in both HTLV-transformed T cells and ATL-derived cell lines. Importantly, GA treatment led to efficient apoptosis of these malignant cells, whereas inhibition of autophagic degradation of IKK significantly ameliorated the cytotoxic effect of GA. These findings thus not only provide mechanistic insights into the tumor suppression function of autophagy and the anti-tumor activity of GA, but also suggest an immediate therapeutic strategy for ATL and other diseases associated with NFkappaB activation by targeting autophagic degradation of the central NFkappaB activating kinases.
Growing evidence supports an active role for dysregulated macroautophagy (autophagic stress) in neuronal cell death and neurodegeneration. Alterations in mitochondrial function and dynamics are also strongly implicated in neurodegenerative diseases. Interestingly, whereas the core autophagy machinery is evolutionarily conserved and shared among constitutive and induced or selective autophagy, recent studies implicate distinct mechanisms regulating mitochondrial autophagy (mitophagy) in response to general autophagic stimuli. Little is known about pathways regulating selective, damage-induced mitophagy. We found that the parkinsonian neurotoxin MPP(+) induces autophagy and mitochondrial degradation that is inhibited by siRNA knockdown of autophagy proteins Atg5, Atg7 and Atg8, but occurs independently of Beclin 1, a component of the class III (PIK3C3/Vps34) phosphoinositide 3-kinase (PI3K) complex. Instead, MPP(+)-induced mitophagy is dependent upon MAPK signaling. Interestingly, all treatments that inhibited autophagy also conferred protection from MPP(+)-induced cell death. A prior human tissue study further supports a role for ERK/MAPK-regulated autophagy in Parkinson's and Lewy body diseases. As competition for limiting amounts of Beclin 1 may serve to prevent harmful overactivation of autophagy, understanding mechanisms that bypass or complement a requirement for PI3K-Beclin 1 activity could lead to strategies to modulate autophagic stress in injured or degenerating neurons.
Despite a large and consistent literature on the suppressant effects of cannabinoid CB1 receptor antagonists/inverse agonists (e.g. rimonabant, AM 251) on food intake and weight gain in rodents, surprisingly little is known about the behavioural selectivity of such effects. In this study, ethological scoring was used to characterize the acute behavioural effects of the rimonabant analogue AM 251 (1.5 and 3.0 mg/kg, intraperitoneally) in nondeprived male rats during a 1-h test with palatable mash. Data were also collected on daily weight gain and on retest food intake 7 days after dosing. Results showed that the higher dose of AM 251 significantly inhibited mash consumption (32% decrease relative to vehicle control), reduced time spent feeding during the test and suppressed body weight gain over the 48-h period that followed acute dosing. No effects on mash consumption were observed when the animals were retested drug-free 1 week after drug treatment. Detailed video analysis of the test sessions showed that, over the dose range tested, AM 251 did not significantly interfere with the vast majority of noningestive behaviours. Both doses of the compound, however, significantly increased the incidence of and the time spent on scratching, whereas the higher dose additionally increased both the number and duration of grooming episodes. The latter effect in particular disrupted the normal structure of behaviour (behavioural satiety sequence) with atypically high levels of grooming displacing feeding during the middle part of the test session. Overall, the behavioural profile of AM 251 in a free-feeding context is very similar to (but approximately two-fold less potent than) that recently reported for the parent molecule, rimonabant. Together, these data strongly suggest that the acute anorectic response to CB1 receptor antagonists/inverse agonists is indirectly mediated via major alterations to other components of the behavioural repertoire.
The memory block effect (MBE) occurs when orthographically similar words inhibitretrieval. Previous studies have published 55 different stimuli that produce the MBE in word fragment completion. This small number of stimuli constrains experimental designs, presents serious obstacles for using neuroimaging to elucidate neural substrates of blocking, and raises concern that the MBE is limited to a particular group of words. A pool of 315 stimulus words was tested in a traditional MBE paradigm, and the results demonstrated that the MBE generalizes to other stimuli. This study also expands the number of stimuli that produce the MBE because 185 new stimuli produced blocking effects. As a result, the current list of 240 MBE stimuli can be used for word fragment research including cognitive neuroscience investigations of retrieval inhibition. A table of MBE stimuli is available in an archived appendix that can be downloaded from www.psychonomic.org/archive.
In order to understand better the processes involved in the perception of shape through touch, someelement of control is required over the nature of the shape presented to the hand and the presentation timing. To that end, we have developed a cost-effective, computer-controlled apparatus for presenting haptic stimuli using active touch, known as a virtual haptic display (VHD). The operational principle behind this device is that it translates black and white visual images into topographic, 2-D taxel (tactile pixel) arrays, along the same principle using in Braille letters. These taxels are either elevated or depressed at any one time representing white and black pixel colors of the visual image, respectively. To feel the taxels, the participant places their fingers onto a carriage which can be moved over the surface of the device to reveal a virtual shape. We conducted two experiments and the results show that untrained participants are able to recognize different, simple and complex, shapes using this apparatus. The VHD apparatus is therefore ideal at presenting 2-Dshapes through touch alone. Moreover,this device and its supporting software can also be used for presenting computer-controlled stimuli in cross-modal experiments.
The SLTM [SAF (scaffold attachment factor)-like transcription modulator] protein contains a SAF-box DNA-binding motif and an RNA-binding domain, and shares an overall identity of 34% with SAFB1 {scaffold attachment factor-B1; also known as SAF-B (scaffold attachment factor B), HET [heat-shock protein 27 ERE (oestrogen response element) and TATA-box-binding protein] or HAP (heterogeneous nuclear ribonucleoprotein A1-interacting protein)}. Here, we show that SLTM is localized to the cell nucleus, but excluded from nucleoli, and to a large extent it co-localizes with SAFB1. In the nucleus, SLTM has a punctate distribution and it does not co-localize with SR (serine/arginine) proteins. Overexpression of SAFB1 has been shown to exert a number of inhibitory effects, including suppression of oestrogen signalling. Although SLTM also suppressed the ability of oestrogen to activate a reporter gene in MCF-7 breast-cancer cells, inhibition of a constitutively active beta-galactosidase gene suggested that this was primarily the consequence of a generalized inhibitory effect on transcription. Measurement of RNA synthesis, which showed a particularly marked inhibition of [(3)H]uridine incorporation into mRNA, supported this conclusion. In addition, analysis of cell-cycle parameters, chromatin condensation and cytochrome c release showed that SLTM induced apoptosis in a range of cultured cell lines. Thus the inhibitory effects of SLTM on gene expression appear to result from generalized down-regulation of mRNA synthesis and initiation of apoptosis consequent upon overexpressing the protein. While indicating a crucial role for SLTM in cellular function, these results also emphasize the need for caution when interpreting phenotypic changes associated with manipulation of protein expression levels.
The metabolism of tryptophan by the kynurenine pathway leads to the production of several neurotoxic compounds, some of which have been associated with neurological disorders. Recent investigation of some relevant compounds in this pathway has provided further evidence of their neurotoxicity.
Disrupted in schizophrenia 1 (DISC1) is emerging in the eyes of many as the most promising candidate of all the schizophrenia risk genes. This viewpoint is derived from the combination of genetic, clinical, imaging and rapidly advancing cell biology data around this gene. All of these areas have been reviewed extensively recently and this review will point you towards some of these excellent papers. My own personal view of the potential importance of DISC1 was echoed in a recent review which suggested that DISC1 may be a 'Rosetta Stone' for schizophrenia research [Ross, Margolis, Reading, Pletnikov and Coyle (2006) Neuron 52, 139-153]. Our own efforts to try to understand the function of DISC1 were through identification of its protein-binding partners. Through an extensive Y2H (yeast two-hybrid) and bioinformatics effort we generated the 'DISC1-Interactome', a comprehensive network of protein-protein interactions around DISC1. In two excellent industry-academia collaborations we focused on two main interacting partners: Ndel1 (nudE nuclear distribution gene E homologue-like 1), an enigmatic protein which may have diverse functions as both a cysteine protease and a key centrosomal structural protein; and PDE4B, a cAMP-specific phosphodiesterase. I will review the work around these two protein complexes in detail.
Synapses are specialized communication junctions between neurons whose plasticity provides the structural and functional basis for information processing and storage in the brain. Recent biochemical, genetic and imaging studies in diverse model systems are beginning to reveal the molecular mechanisms by which synaptic vesicles, ion channels, receptors and other synaptic components assemble to make a functional synapse. Recent evidence has shown that the formation and function of synapses are critically regulated by the liprin-alpha family of scaffolding proteins. The liprin-alphas have been implicated in pre- and post-synaptic development by recruiting synaptic proteins and regulating synaptic cargo transport. Here, we will summarize the diversity of liprin binding partners, highlight the factors that control the function of liprin-alphas at the synapse and discuss how liprin-alpha family proteins regulate synapse formation and synaptic transmission.
There is growing evidence that mild cognitive impairment in early AD (Alzheimer's disease) may be due to synaptic dysfunction caused by the accumulation of non-fibrillar, oligomeric Abeta (amyloid beta-peptide), long before widespread synaptic loss and neurodegeneration occurs. Soluble Abeta oligomers can rapidly disrupt synaptic memory mechanisms at extremely low concentrations via stress-activated kinases and oxidative/nitrosative stress mediators. Here, we summarize experiments that investigated whether certain putative receptors for Abeta, the alphav integrin extracellular cell matrix-binding protein and the cytokine TNFalpha (tumour necrosis factor alpha) type-1 death receptor mediate Abeta oligomer-induced inhibition of LTP (long-term potentiation). Ligands that neutralize TNFalpha or genetic knockout of TNF-R1s (type-1 TNFalpha receptors) prevented Abeta-triggered inhibition of LTP in hippocampal slices. Similarly, antibodies to alphav-containing integrins abrogated LTP block by Abeta. Protection against the synaptic plasticity-disruptive effects of soluble Abeta was also achieved using systemically administered small molecules targeting these mechanisms in vivo. Taken together, this research lends support to therapeutic trials of drugs antagonizing synaptic plasticity-disrupting actions of Abeta oligomers in preclinical AD.
Inflammation occurs rapidly in response to acute brain insults such as stroke, haemorrhage or trauma, and can be sustained for long periods of time, for example in Alzheimer's or Parkinson's diseases and multiple sclerosis. Experimental evidence indicates that inflammation plays a major role in neurodegeneration under these conditions, and that the cytokine IL-1 (interleukin-1) is a pivotal mediator. IL-1 is expressed rapidly in response to neuronal injury, predominantly by microglia, and elevated levels of endogenous or exogenous IL-1 markedly exacerbate injury. The naturally occurring IL-1RA (IL-1 receptor antagonist) markedly inhibits ischaemic, excitotoxic and traumatic brain injury in rodents, and has shown promise in a Phase II clinical trial in stroke patients. The mechanisms of IL-1 expression, release and action in neurodegeneration are not fully elucidated and appear multiple. Systemic IL-1 markedly enhances ischaemic brain injury via release of neutrophils into circulation, neutrophil adhesion to injured cerebrovasculature and CNS (central nervous system) invasion, and cell death via activation of matrix metalloproteinase-9. IL-1 also influences the release of toxins from glial and endothelial cells. Neuronal responses to excitotoxins and physiological factors may have an impact on neuronal survival. IL-1RA, delivered peripherally, can enter the CNS in animals and humans and has no adverse effects in stroke or subarachnoid haemorrhage patients, but shows potential benefit in acute stroke patients.
Neuronal excitability is determined by the flux of ions through ion channels. Many types of ion channels are expressed in the central nervous system, each responsible for its own aspect of neuronal excitability, from postsynaptic depolarization to action potential generation to neurotransmitter release. These mechanisms are tightly regulated to create a balance between excitation and inhibition. Disruption of this balance is thought to be key in many neurological disorders, including epilepsy syndromes. More and more ion channel mutations are being identified through genetic studies; however, their incidence is still small, suggesting the presence of undiscovered mutations or other causative mechanisms. Understanding wild-type channel function during epileptic activity may also provide vital insights into the remaining idiopathic epilepsies and provide targets for future antiepileptic drugs.
Multiple sclerosis is an inflammatory, demyelinating and neurodegenerative disorder of the central nervous system. Increasing evidence indicates that neuronal pathology and axonal injury are early hallmarks of multiple sclerosis and are major contributors to progressive and permanent disability. Yet, the mechanisms underlying neuronal dysfunction and damage are not well defined. Elucidation of such mechanisms is of critical importance for the development of therapeutic strategies that will prevent neurodegeneration and confer neuroprotection. PMCA2 (plasma-membrane Ca(2+)-ATPase 2) and the NCX (Na(+)/Ca(2+) exchanger) have been implicated in impairment of axonal and neuronal function in multiple sclerosis and its animal models. As PMCA2 and NCX play critical roles in calcium extrusion in cells, alterations in their expression or activity may affect calcium homoeostasis and thereby induce intracellular injury mechanisms. Interventions that restore normal PMCA2 and NCX activity may prevent or slow disease progression by averting neurodegeneration.

The hearing organ contains sensory hair cells, which convert sound-evoked vibration into action potentials in the auditory nerve. This process is greatly enhanced by molecular motors that reside within the outer hair cells, but the performance also depends on passive mechanical properties, such as the stiffness, mass, and friction of the structures within the organ of Corti. We used resampled confocal imaging to study the mechanical properties of the low-frequency regions of the cochlea. The data allowed us to estimate an important mechanical parameter, the radial strain, which was found to be 0.1% near the inner hair cells and 0.3% near the third row of outer hair cells during moderate-level sound stimulation. The strain was caused by differences in the motion trajectories of inner and outer hair cells. Motion perpendicular to the reticular lamina was greater at the outer hair cells, but inner hair cells showed greater radial vibration. These differences led to deformation of the reticular lamina, which connects the apex of the outer and inner hair cells. These results are important for understanding how the molecular motors of the outer hair cells can so profoundly affect auditory sensitivity.
There has been considerable success in allocating function to the different parts of the brain. We also know much about brain organisation in different regions of the brain and how different brain regions connect to one another. One of the most important next steps for modern neuroscience is to work out how different areas of the brain interact with one another. In particular we need to know how sensory regions communicate with association areas and vice versa. This article explores how top-down signals originating from association areas may be used to process and transform bottom-up representations originating from sensory areas of the brain. Simple models of networks containing topographically organised ensembles of neurons used to integrate and process information are described. The different models can be used to process information in a variety of different ways that could be used as the starting point for a variety of cognitive operations, in particular the extraction of abstract information from sensory representations.
This paper proposes a human mimetic neuro-musculo-skeletal model to simulate the recovery reactions from perturbations during walking. The computational model incorporates nonlinear viscoelastic muscular mechanics, supraspinal control of the center-of-mass, spinal pattern generator including muscle synergy network, spinal reflexes, and long-loop reflexes. Especially the long-loop reflexes specify recovery strategies based on the experimental observations [Schillings, A.M., van Wezel, B.M.H., Mulder, T.H., Duysen, J., 2000. Muscular responses and movement strategies during stumbling over obstacles. J. Neurophysiol. 83, 2093-2102; Eng, J.J., Winter, D.A., Patla, A.E., 1994. Strategies for recovery from a trip in early and late swing during human walking. Exp. Brain Res. 102, 339-349]. The model demonstrates two typical recovery strategies, i.e., elevating and lowering strategies against pulling over a swing leg. Sensed perturbation triggers a simple tonic pulse from the cortex. Depending on the swing phase, the tonic pulse activates a different compound of muscles over lower limbs. The compound induces corresponding recovery strategies. The reproduction of principal recovery behaviors may support the model's proposed functional and/or anatomical correspondence.




The cannabis plant (Cannabis sativa) has been known by many names but the question remains 'Can we call it medicine?' There has been renewed interest in the value of cannabis for the control of neuroinflammatory conditions such as multiple sclerosis, where it has been shown to have some effect on spasticity and pain both experimentally and in clinical trials in humans. However, in addition to symptom control potential, the question remains whether cannabinoids can modify the neuroinflammatory element which drives relapsing neurological attacks and the accumulation of progressive disability. In experimental studies it has been recently shown that synthetic cannabinoids can affect the immune response both indirectly via CB1 receptor-mediated signalling nerve centres controlling the systemic release of immunosuppressive molecules and directly by CB2 receptor-mediated inhibition of lymphocyte and macrophage/microglial cell function. However, these immunosuppressive possibilities that would limit the frequency of relapsing attacks will probably not be realized clinically, following use of medical cannabis, due to dose constraints. However, cannabinoids may still affect the glial response within the damaged central nervous system, which facilitate the slow, neurodegenerative processes that account for progressive neurodegeneration, and therefore may have utility in addition to value of cannabis-related drugs for symptom control.

In this review, we present our understanding of the action and metabolism of endocannabinoids and related endogenous molecules. It is clear that the interactions between the multiple endocannabinoid-like molecules (ECLs) are highly complex, both at the level of signal transduction and metabolism. Thus, ECLs are a group of ligands active at 7-transmembrane and nuclear receptors, as well as transmitter-gated and ion channels. ECLs and their metabolites can converge on common endpoints (either metabolic or signalling) through contradictory or reinforcing pathways. We highlight the complexity of the endocannabinoid system, based on the promiscuous nature of ECLs and their metabolites, as well as the synthetic modulators of the endocannabinoid system.
Alzheimer's disease is an age-related neurodegenerative condition associated with cognitive decline. The pathological hallmarks of the disease are the deposition of beta-amyloid protein and hyperphosphorylation of tau, which evoke neuronal cell death and impair inter-neuronal communication. The disease is also associated with neuroinflammation, excitotoxicity and oxidative stress. In recent years the proclivity of cannabinoids to exert a neuroprotective influence has received substantial interest as a means to mitigate the symptoms of neurodegenerative conditions. In brains obtained from Alzheimer's patients alterations in components of the cannabinoid system have been reported, suggesting that the cannabinoid system either contributes to, or is altered by, the pathophysiology of the disease. Certain cannabinoids can protect neurons from the deleterious effects of beta-amyloid and are capable of reducing tau phosphorylation. The propensity of cannabinoids to reduce beta-amyloid-evoked oxidative stress and neurodegeneration, whilst stimulating neurotrophin expression neurogenesis, are interesting properties that may be beneficial in the treatment of Alzheimer's disease. Delta 9-tetrahydrocannabinol can also inhibit acetylcholinesterase activity and limit amyloidogenesis which may improve cholinergic transmission and delay disease progression. Targeting cannabinoid receptors on microglia may reduce the neuroinflammation that is a feature of Alzheimer's disease, without causing psychoactive effects. Thus, cannabinoids offer a multi-faceted approach for the treatment of Alzheimer's disease by providing neuroprotection and reducing neuroinflammation, whilst simultaneously supporting the brain's intrinsic repair mechanisms by augmenting neurotrophin expression and enhancing neurogenesis. The evidence supporting a potential role for the cannabinoid system as a therapeutic target for the treatment of Alzheimer's disease will be reviewed herewith.
Cannabinoid CB1 and CB2 receptors are located at key sites involved in the relaying and processing of noxious inputs. Both CB1 and CB2 receptor agonists have analgesic effects in a range of models of inflammatory and neuropathic pain. Importantly, clinical trials of cannabis-based medicines indicate that the pre-clinical effects of cannabinoid agonists may translate into therapeutic potential in humans. One of the areas of concern with this pharmacological approach is that CB1 receptors have a widespread distribution in the brain and that global activation of CB1 receptors is associated with adverse side effects. Studies of the endogenous cannabinoids (endocannabinoids) have demonstrated that they are present in most tissues and that in some pain states, such as neuropathic pain, levels of endocannabinoids are elevated at key sites involved in pain processing. An alternative approach that can be used to harness the potential therapeutic effects of cannabinoids is to maximise the effects of the endocannabinoids, the actions of which are terminated by re-uptake and metabolism by various enzymes, including fatty acid amide hydrolase (FAAH), monoacylglycerol lipase (MAGL) and cyclooxygenase type 2 (COX2). Preventing the metabolism, or uptake, of endocannabinoids elevates levels of these lipid compounds in tissue and produces behavioural analgesia in models of acute pain. Herein we review recent studies of the effects of inhibition of metabolism of endocannabinoids versus uptake of endocannabinoids on nociceptive processing in models of inflammatory and neuropathic pain.

The development of sensitive analytical methods for measurement of endocannabinoids, their metabolites, and related lipids, has underlined the complexity of the endocannabinoid system. A case can be made for an 'endocannabinoid soup' (akin to the inflammatory soup) whereby the net effect of a pathological state and/or a pharmacological intervention on this system is the result not only of changes in endocannabinoid levels but also of their metabolites and related compounds that affect their function. With respect to the metabolism of anandamide and 2-arachidonoylglycerol, the main hydrolytic enzymes involved are fatty acid amide hydrolase and monoacylglycerol lipase. However, other pathways can come into play when these are blocked. Cyclooxygenase-2 derived metabolites of anandamide and 2-arachidonoylglycerol have a number of properties, including effects upon cell viability, contraction of the cat iris sphincter (an effect mediated by a novel receptor), mobilization of calcium and modulation of synaptic transmission. Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory agents, whose primary mode of action is the inhibition of cyclooxygenase, can also interact with the endocannabinoid system both in vitro and in vivo. Other enzymes, such as the lipoxygenase and cytochrome P450 oxidative enzymes, can also metabolize endocannabinoids and produce biologically active compounds. It is concluded that sensitive analytical methods, which allow for measurement of endocannabinoids and related lipids, should provide vital information as to the importance of these alternative metabolic pathways when the primary hydrolytic endocannabinoid metabolizing enzymes are inhibited.


Cortical sensory maps can reorganize in the adult brain in an experience-dependent manner. We monitored somatosensory cortical reorganization after sensory deafferentation using functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) in rats subjected to complete transection of the mid-thoracic spinal cord. Cortical representation in response to spared forelimb stimulation was observed to enlarge and invade adjacent sensory-deprived hind limb territory in the primary somatosensory cortex as early as 3 days after injury. Functional MRI also demonstrated long-term cortical plasticity accompanied by increased thalamic activation. To support the notion that alterations of cortical neuronal circuitry after spinal cord injury may underlie the fMRI changes, we quantified transcriptional activities of several genes related to cortical plasticity including the Nogo receptor (NgR), its co-receptor LINGO-1 and brain derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF), using in situ hybridization. We demonstrate that NgR and LINGO-1 are down-regulated specifically in cortical areas deprived of sensory input and in adjacent cortex from 1 day after injury, while BDNF is up-regulated. Our results demonstrate that cortical neurons react to sensory deprivation by decreasing transcriptional activities of genes encoding the Nogo receptor components in the sensory deprived and the anatomically adjacent non-deprived area. Combined with the BDNF up-regulation, these changes presumably allow structural changes in the neuropil. Our observations therefore suggest an involvement of Nogo signalling in cortical activity-dependent plasticity in the somatosensory system. In spinal cord injury, cortical reorganization as shown here can become a disadvantage, much like the situation in amblyopia or phantom sensation. Successful strategies to repair sensory pathways at the spinal cord level may not lead to proper reestablishment of cortical connections, once deprived hind limb cortical areas have been reallocated to forelimb use. In such situations, methods to control cortical plasticity, possibly by targeting Nogo signalling, may become helpful.
Deep brain stimulation (DBS) of the globus pallidus pars interna (GPi) is an effective treatment for generalized dystonia. Its role in the management of other types of dystonia is uncertain. Therefore we performed a prospective, single-blind, multicentre study assessing the efficacy and safety of bilateral GPi-DBS in 10 patients with severe, chronic, medication-resistant cervical dystonia. Two blinded neurologists assessed patients before surgery and at 6 and 12 months post-operatively using the Toronto Western Spasmodic Torticollis Rating Scale (TWSTRS). The primary outcome measure was the severity subscore (range 0-30, higher scores indicating greater impairment). Secondary outcomes included disability (0 to 30), pain (0 to 40) subscores and total scores of the TWSTRS, Short Form-36 and Beck depression inventory. Swallowing and neuropsychological assessment were also performed at baseline and 12 months. One-way repeated measures analysis of variance was used to analyse the data. The TWSTRS severity score improved from a mean (SD) of 14.7 (4.2) before surgery to 8.4 (4.4) at 12 months post-operatively (P = 0.003). The disability and pain scores improved from 14.9 (3.8) and 26.6 (3.6) before surgery, to 5.4 (7.0) and 9.2 (13.1) at 12 months, respectively (both P &lt; 0.001). General health and physical functioning as well as depression scores improved significantly. Complications were mild and reversible in four patients. Some changes in neuropsychological tests were observed, although these did not impact daily life or employment. Our results support the efficacy and safety of GPi-DBS for the treatment of patients with severe and prolonged cervical dystonia who have failed medical management.
Previous studies have shown that omega-3 polyunsaturated fatty acids such as alpha-linolenic acid and docosahexaenoic acid (DHA) are neuroprotective in models of spinal cord injury (SCI) in rodents. However, the mechanism of action underlying these effects has not been elucidated, and the optimum treatment regime remains to be defined. We have therefore carried out a detailed analysis of the effects of DHA in adult rats subject to thoracic compression SCI. Saline or DHA (250 nmol/kg) was administered intravenously (i.v.) 30 min after compression. After injury, the saline group received a standard control diet for 1 or 6 weeks, whereas DHA-injected animals received either a control or a DHA-enriched diet (400 mg/kg/day) for 1 or 6 weeks. Other groups received a DHA-enriched diet only for 1 week following injury, or received acute DHA (250 nmol/kg; i.v.) treatment delayed up to 3 h after injury. We also assessed oxidative stress and the inflammatory reaction at the injury site, neuronal and oligodendrocyte survival and axonal damage and the locomotor recovery. At 24 h, lipid peroxidation, protein oxidation, RNA/DNA oxidation and the induction of cyclooxygenase-2 were all significantly reduced by i.v. DHA administration. At 1 week and 6 weeks, macrophage recruitment was reduced and neuronal and oligodendrocyte survival was substantially increased. Axonal injury was reduced at 6 weeks. Locomotor recovery was improved from day 4, and sustained up to 6 weeks. Rats treated with a DHA-enriched diet in addition to the acute DHA injection were not significantly different from the acute DHA-treated animals at 1 week, but at 6 weeks showed additional improvements in both functional and histological outcomes. DHA treatment was ineffective if the acute injection was delayed until 3 h post-injury, or if the DHA was administered for 1 week solely by diet. Our results in a clinically relevant model of SCI show that significant neuroprotection can be obtained by combining an initial acute i.v. injection of DHA with a sustained dietary supplementation. Given that the safety and tolerability of preparations enriched in omega-3 fatty acids is already well-documented, such a combined DHA treatment regime deserves consideration as a very promising approach to SCI management.
The neural basis for the transition from preclinical to symptomatic Huntington's disease (HD) is unknown. We used serial positron emission tomography (PET) imaging in preclinical HD gene carriers (p-HD) to assess the metabolic changes that occur during this period. Twelve p-HD subjects were followed longitudinally with [11C]-raclopride and [18F]-fluorodeoxyglucose PET imaging, with scans at baseline, 18 and 44 months. Progressive declines in striatal D2-receptor binding were correlated with concurrent changes in regional metabolism and in the activity of an HD-related metabolic network. We found that striatal D2 binding declined over time (P &lt; 0.005). The activity of a reproducible HD-related metabolic covariance pattern increased between baseline and 18 months (P &lt; 0.003) but declined at 44 months (P &lt; 0.04). These network changes coincided with progressive declines in striatal and thalamic metabolic activity (P &lt; 0.01). Striatal metabolism was abnormally low at all time points (P &lt; 0.005). By contrast, thalamic metabolism was elevated at baseline (P &lt; 0.01), but fell to subnormal levels in the p-HD subjects who developed symptoms. These findings were confirmed with an MRI-based atrophy correction for each individual PET scan. Increases in network expression and thalamic glucose metabolism may be compensatory for early neuronal losses in p-HD. Declines in these measures may herald the onset of symptoms in gene carriers.
Strategies to enhance the capacity of grafted stem/progenitors cells to generate multipotential, proliferative and migrating pools of cells in the postnatal brain could be crucial for structural repair after brain damage. We investigated whether the over-expression of basic fibroblast growth factor 2 (FGF-2) in neural progenitor cells (NPCs) could provide a robust source of migrating NPCs for tissue repair in the rat cerebral cortex. Using live imaging we provide direct evidence that FGF-2 over-expression significantly enhances the migratory capacity of grafted NPCs in complex 3D structures, such as cortical slices. Furthermore, we show that the migratory as well as proliferative properties of FGF-2 over-expressing NPCs are maintained after in vivo transplantation. Importantly, after transplantation into a neonatal ischaemic cortex, FGF-2 over-expressing NPCs efficiently invade the injured cortex and generate an increased pool of immature neurons available for brain repair. Differentiation of progenitor cells into immature neurons was correlated with a gradual down-regulation of the FGF-2 transgene. These results reveal an important role for FGF-2 in regulating NPCs functions when interacting with the host tissue and offer a potential strategy to generate a robust source of migrating and immature progenitors for repairing a neonatal ischaemic cortex.
Spinal cord injury (SCI) causes delayed secondary biochemical alterations that lead to tissue loss and associated neurological dysfunction. Up-regulation of cell cycle proteins occurs in both neurons and glia after SCI and may contribute to these changes. The present study examined the role of cell cycle activation on secondary injury after severe SCI in rat. SCI caused cell cycle protein up-regulation associated with neuronal and oligodendroglial apoptosis, glial scar formation and microglial activation. Treatment with the cell cycle inhibitor flavopiridol reduced cell cycle protein induction and significantly improved functional recovery versus vehicle-treated controls at 21 and 28 days post-injury. Treatment also significantly reduced lesion volume, as measured by MRI and histology, decreased astrocytic reactivity, attenuated neuronal and oligodendroglial apoptosis and reduced the production of factors associated with microglial activation. Thus, flavopiridol treatment improves outcome after SCI by inhibiting cell cycle pathways, resulting in beneficial multifactorial actions on neurons and glia.
Wilder Penfield, a Rhodes scholar from Princeton University, New Jersey, was a student in the first course on mammalian physiology given in 1915 at Oxford University by Charles Sherrington, newly arrived from Liverpool where, as Holt Professor of Physiology for 20 years, he had become a leading authority on the physiology of the nervous system. The practical 'exercises' as well as graduate research on the Golgi apparatus and the decerebrate preparation, carried out by Penfield in Sherrington's laboratory, gave him the groundwork to develop his career as a physiological surgeon, who made fundamental observations on functional localization in the human brain during the surgical treatment of patients afflicted with epilepsy.

Inflammatory cytokines are released in response to stress, tissue damage, and infection. Acutely, this response is adaptive; however, chronic elevation of inflammatory proteins can contribute to health problems including cardiovascular, endocrine, mood, and sleep disorders. Few studies have examined how sleep deprivation acutely affects inflammatory markers, which was the aim of the current study. Nineteen healthy men and women aged 28.05+/-8.56 (mean+/-SD) were totally sleep deprived for 40 h under constant routine conditions. Pro-inflammatory markers: intracellular adhesion molecule-1 (ICAM-1), E-selectin, vascular adhesion molecule-1 (VCAM-1), c-reactive protein (CRP), interleukin-6 (IL-6), and interleukin-1beta (IL-1beta), and the anti-inflammatory cytokine interleukin-1 receptor antagonist (IL-1ra) were assayed in plasma. Daytime levels during baseline (hours 1-15 of scheduled wakefulness) were compared to daytime levels during sleep deprivation (hours 25-39 of scheduled wakefulness), thus controlling for circadian phase within an individual. Repeated measures ANOVA with planned comparisons showed that 40 h of total sleep deprivation induced a significant increase in E-selectin, ICAM-1, IL-1beta, and IL-1ra, a significant decrease in CRP and IL-6, and no significant change in VCAM-1. Alterations in circulating levels of pro- and anti-inflammatory cytokines and cell adhesion molecules during sleep deprivation were consistent with both increased and decreased inflammation. These findings suggest that one night of sleep loss triggers a stress response that includes stimulation of both pro- and anti-inflammatory proteins in the healthy young subjects tested under our experimental conditions.
We investigated the role of visual experience on the spatial representation and updating of haptic scenes by comparing recognition performance across sighted, congenitally and late blind participants. We first established that spatial updating occurs in sighted individuals to haptic scenes of novel objects. All participants were required to recognise a previously learned haptic scene of novel objects presented across the same or different orientation as learning whilst they either remained in the same position to moved to a new position relative to the scene. Scene rotation incurred a cost in recognition performance in all groups. However, overall haptic scene recognition performance was worse in the congenitally blind group. Moreover, unlike the late blind or sighted groups, the congenitally blind group were unable to compensate for the cost in scene rotation with observer motion. Our results suggest that vision plays an important role in representing and updating spatial information encoded through touch and have important implications for the role of vision in the development of neuronal areas involved in spatial cognition.

Epilepsy is one of the most common but genetically complex neurological disorders in children. Previous studies have showed that chromosomal abnormalities confer susceptibility to epilepsy. To identify new chromosomal abnormalities associated with epilepsy, DNA samples from patients with idiopathic generalized epilepsy (IGE), partial epilepsy (PE), and febrile seizures (FS) were analyzed using array comparative genome hybridization technique (array-CGH). Genomic aberrations were detected throughout whole chromosome. The most frequently altered loci were gains noted in: 1p (60%), 5p (55%), 8q (55%), 10q (55%), and losses in 7q (55%). The most frequent chromosomal aberrations for each seizure type were: IGE-1p (60%), 5p (55%), and 10q (55%), PE-11p (45%), 21q (45%) and FS-8q (55%), and losses in 7q (55%). To validate the array-CGH results, real time PCR was performed for several genes (EPM2AIP1, OSM, AFP, CYP19A1, SLC6A13, and COL6A2). The results from the real time PCR were consistent with those from the array-CGH. Therefore, we found that the three types of seizures disorder studied have different chromosomal aberrations. These results might be used for further investigation of the pathogenesis of epilepsy.

Manganese (Mn) is a cofactor for some metalloprotein enzymes, including Mn-superoxide dismutase (Mn-SOD), a mitochondrial enzyme predominantly localized in neurons, and glutamine synthetase (GS), which is selectively expressed in astroglial cells. The detoxifying effects of GS and Mn-SOD in the brain, involve catabolizing glutamate and scavenging superoxide anions, respectively. Mn intoxication is characterized by impaired function of the basal ganglia. However, it is unclear whether regional central nervous system expression of manganoproteins is also affected. Here, we use immunocytochemistry in the adult rat brain, to examine whether Mn overload selectively affects the expression of GS, Mn-SOD, Cu/Zn-SOD, another component of the SOD family, and glial fibrillary acid protein (GFAP), a specific marker of astrocytes. After chronic Mn overload in drinking water for 13 weeks, we found that the number and immunostaining intensity of GS- and Mn-SOD-positive cells was significantly decreased in the striatum and globus pallidus, but not in the cerebral frontal cortex. In addition, we found that GS enzymatic activity was decreased in the strio-pallidal regions but not in the cerebral cortex of Mn-treated animals. In contrast, Cu/Zn-SOD- and GFAP-immunoreactivity was unchanged in both the cerebral cortex and basal ganglia of Mn-treated rats. Thus, we conclude that in response to chronic Mn overload, a down-regulation of some manganoproteins occurs in neurons and astrocytes of the striatum and globus pallidus, probably reflecting the vulnerability of these regions to Mn toxicity.
Sensory and environmental manipulations affect the development of sensory systems. Higher-order auditory representations (auditory categories or &quot;objects&quot;) evolve with experience and via top-down influences modify representations in early auditory areas. During development of a functional auditory system, the capacity for bottom-up reorganizations is successively less well expressed due to a molecular change in synaptic properties. It is, however, complemented by top-down influences that direct and modulate the residual (adult) capacity for circuit reorganization. In a deprived condition, this developmental step is substantially affected. As higher-order representations cannot be established in absence of auditory experience, the developmental decrease in capacity for &quot;bottom-up regulated&quot; reorganizations (as repeatedly demonstrated in also in deprived sensory systems) cannot be complemented by an increasing influence of top-down modulations. In consequence, the ability to learn is compromised in sensory deprivation, resulting in a sensitive period for recovery.
Olfactory ensheathing glia (OEG) are a specialized type of glia that guide primary olfactory axons from the neuroepithelium in the nasal cavity to the brain. The primary olfactory system is able to regenerate after a lesion and OEG contribute to this process by providing a growth-supportive environment for newly formed axons. In the spinal cord, axons are not able to restore connections after an injury. The effects of OEG transplants on the regeneration of the injured spinal cord have been studied for over a decade. To date, of all the studies using only OEG as a transplant, 41 showed positive effects, while 13 studies showed limited or no effects. There are several contradictory reports on the migratory and axon growth-supporting properties of transplanted OEG. Hence, the regenerative potential of OEG has become the subject of intense discussion. In this review, we first provide an overview of the molecular and cellular characteristics of OEG in their natural environment, the primary olfactory nervous system. Second, their potential to stimulate regeneration in the injured spinal cord is discussed. OEG influence scar formation by their ability to interact with astrocytes, they are able to remyelinate axons and promote angiogenesis. The ability of OEG to interact with scar tissue cells is an important difference with Schwann cells and may be a unique characteristic of OEG. Because of these effects after transplantation and because of their role in primary olfactory system regeneration, the OEG can be considered as a source of neuroregeneration-promoting molecules. To identify these molecules, more insight into the molecular biology of OEG is required. We believe that genome-wide gene expression studies of OEG in their native environment, in culture and after transplantation will ultimately reveal unique combinations of molecules involved in the regeneration-promoting potential of OEG.
A comprehensive review was made of the relationships between right hemisphere and face familiarity feelings, taking separately into account: (a) studies of patients with unilateral lesions of the anterior or the posterior parts of the right and left temporal lobes, who showed a familiar people recognition disorder, (b) studies of right and left brain-damaged patients, presenting an increased familiarity for unknown persons or abnormal familiarity feelings for well known people, (c) results of studies conducted in normal subjects to evaluate the lateralization of face familiarity feelings. In this last section, we separately reviewed: results obtained by means of separate presentation of familiar and unfamiliar faces to the right and left visual fields; lateralization of event-related potentials evoked by familiar vs unfamiliar faces; results of activation studies presenting familiar and unfamiliar faces. Taken together, results of this review have shown that face familiarity feelings are specifically generated by the right hemisphere. Clinical and neurophysiological data suggest that familiarity feelings: (1) are probably due to a lateralized subcortical route, allowing a first, unconscious, global recognition of familiar faces and (2) facilitate the subsequent distinction of known faces (unconsciously detected) from unfamiliar faces. Results of the review have also shown that the right frontal areas play an important role in the production or monitoring of inappropriate familiarity decisions.
It is recently become clear that activated immune cells and immune-like glial cells can dramatically alter neuronal function. By increasing neuronal excitability, these non-neuronal cells are now implicated in the creation and maintenance of pathological pain, such as occurs in response to peripheral nerve injury. Such effects are exerted at multiple sites along the pain pathway, including at peripheral nerves, dorsal root ganglia, and spinal cord. In addition, activated glial cells are now recognized as disrupting the pain suppressive effects of opioid drugs and contributing to opioid tolerance and opioid dependence/withdrawal. While this review focuses on regulation of pain and opioid actions, such immune-neuronal interactions are broad in their implications. Such changes in neuronal function would be expected to occur wherever immune-derived substances come in close contact with neurons.
Isoforms of the neuronal cell adhesion molecule (NCAM) carrying the linear homopolymer of alpha 2,8-linked sialic acid (polysialic acid, PSA) have emerged as particularly attractive candidates for promoting plasticity in the nervous system. The large negatively charged PSA chain of NCAM is postulated to be a spacer that reduces adhesion forces between cells allowing dynamic changes in membrane contacts. Accumulating evidence also suggests that PSA-NCAM-mediated interactions lead to activation of intracellular signaling cascades that are fundamental to the biological functions of the molecule. An important role of PSA-NCAM appears to be during development, when its expression level is high and where it contributes to the regulation of cell shape, growth or migration. However, PSA-NCAM does persist in adult brain structures such as the hippocampus that display a high degree of plasticity where it is involved in activity-induced synaptic plasticity. Recent advances in the field of PSA-NCAM research have not only consolidated the importance of this molecule in plasticity processes but also suggest a role for PSA-NCAM in the regulation of higher cognitive functions and psychiatric disorders. In this review, we discuss the role and mode of actions of PSA-NCAM in structural plasticity as well as its potential link to cognitive processes.
A systematic account of neuron cell types is a basic prerequisite for determining the vertebrate nervous system global wiring diagram. With comprehensive lineage and phylogenetic information unavailable, a general ontology based on structure-function taxonomy is proposed and implemented in a knowledge management system, and a prototype analysis of select regions (including retina, cerebellum, and hypothalamus) presented. The supporting Brain Architecture Knowledge Management System (BAMS) Neuron ontology is online and its user interface allows queries about terms and their definitions, classification criteria based on the original literature and &quot;Petilla Convention&quot; guidelines, hierarchies, and relations-with annotations documenting each ontology entry. Combined with three BAMS modules for neural regions, connections between regions and neuron types, and molecules, the Neuron ontology provides a general framework for physical descriptions and computational modeling of neural systems. The knowledge management system interacts with other web resources, is accessible in both XML and RDF/OWL, is extendible to the whole body, and awaits large-scale data population requiring community participation for timely implementation.
Anatomical and functional refinements of the meso-limbic dopamine system of the rat are discussed. Present experiments suggest that dopaminergic neurons localized in the posteromedial ventral tegmental area (VTA) and central linear nucleus raphe selectively project to the ventromedial striatum (medial olfactory tubercle and medial nucleus accumbens shell), whereas the anteromedial VTA has few if any projections to the ventral striatum, and the lateral VTA largely projects to the ventrolateral striatum (accumbens core, lateral shell and lateral tubercle). These findings complement the recent behavioral findings that cocaine and amphetamine are more rewarding when administered into the ventromedial striatum than into the ventrolateral striatum. Drugs such as nicotine and opiates are more rewarding when administered into the posterior VTA or the central linear nucleus than into the anterior VTA. A review of the literature suggests that (1) the midbrain has corresponding zones for the accumbens core and medial shell; (2) the striatal portion of the olfactory tubercle is a ventral extension of the nucleus accumbens shell; and (3) a model of two dopamine projection systems from the ventral midbrain to the ventral striatum is useful for understanding reward function. The medial projection system is important in the regulation of arousal characterized by affect and drive and plays a different role in goal-directed learning than the lateral projection system, as described in the variation-selection hypothesis of striatal functional organization.
The application of informatics to neuroscience goes far beyond 'traditional' bioinformatics modalities such as DNA sequences. In this review, we describe how informatics is being used to study the nervous system at multiple levels, spanning scales from molecules to behavior. The continuing development of standards for data exchange and interoperability, together with increasing awareness and acceptance of the importance of data sharing, are among the key efforts required to advance the field.



The objective of this study was to determine levels of DNA fragmentation in blood leukocytes and parietal cortex from guinea pigs following repeated low-level exposure to the chemical warfare nerve agent (CWNA) sarin. Guinea pigs were injected (s.c.) once a day for 10 days with saline, or 0.1, 0.2, or 0.4 LD50 (50% mean lethal dose) sarin dissolved in sterile physiological saline. Blood and parietal cortex was collected after injection at 0, 3, and 17 days recovery and evaluated for DNA fragmentation using single-cell gel electrophoresis (Comet assay). Cells were imaged using comet analysis software and three parameters of DNA fragmentation measured: tail length, percent DNA in the tail, and tail moment arm. Repeated low-dose exposure to sarin produced a dose-dependent response in leukocytes at 0 and 3 days post-exposure. There was a significant increase in all measures of DNA fragmentation at 0.2 and 0.4 LD50, but not at 0.1 LD50. There was no significant increase in DNA fragmentation in any of the groups at 17 days post-exposure. Sarin did not produce a systematic dose-dependent response in parietal cortex at any of the time points. However, significant increases in DNA fragmentation at 0.1 and 0.4 LD50 were observed at 0 and 3 days post-exposure. All measures of DNA fragmentation in both leukocytes and neurons returned to control levels by 17 days post-exposure, indicating a small and non-persistent increase in DNA fragmentation following repeated low-level exposure to sarin.
Tau hyperphosphorylation, amyloid plaques, and neuronal death are major neuropathological features of Alzheimer's disease (AD) and Prion-related encephalopathies (PRE). Cyclin-dependent kinase 5 (Cdk5) is a serine/threonine kinase, active in post-mitotic neurons, where it regulates survival and death pathways. Overactivation of Cdk5 is conferred by p25, a truncated fragment of the p35 activator formed upon calpain activation. Cdk5 deregulation causes abnormal phosphorylation of microtubule-associated protein tau, leading to neurodegeneration. In this work we investigated the involvement of Cdk5 in the neurodegeneration triggered by amyloid-beta (Abeta) and prion (PrP) peptides, the culprit agents of AD and PRE. As a work model, we used cultured rat cortical neurons treated with Abeta 1-40 and PrP 106-126 synthetic peptides. The obtained data show that apoptotic neuronal death caused by both the peptides was in part due to Cdk5 deregulation. After peptide treatment, p25 levels were significantly enhanced in a pattern consistent with the augment in calpain activity. Moreover, Abeta 1-40 and PrP 106-126 increased the levels of tau protein phosphorylated at Ser202/Thr205. Cdk5 (roscovitine) and calpain (MDL28170) inhibitors reverted tau hyperphosphorylation and prevented neuronal death caused by Abeta 1-40 and PrP 106-126. This study demonstrates, for the first time, that Cdk5 is involved in PrP-neurotoxicity. Altogether, our data suggests that Cdk5 plays an active role in the pathogenesis of AD and PRE.

The feeling of familiarity can be triggered by stimuli from all sensory modalities, suggesting a multimodal nature of its neural bases. In the present experiment, we investigated this hypothesis by studying the neural bases of familiarity processing of odors and music. In particular, we focused on familiarity referring to the participants' life experience. Items were classified as familiar or unfamiliar based on participants' individual responses, and activation patterns evoked by familiar items were compared with those evoked by unfamiliar items. For the feeling of familiarity, a bimodal activation pattern was observed in the left hemisphere, specifically the superior and inferior frontal gyri, the precuneus, the angular gyrus, the parahippocampal gyrus, and the hippocampus. Together with previously reported data on verbal items, visual items, and auditory items other than music, this outcome suggests a multimodal neural system of the feeling of familiarity. The feeling of unfamiliarity was related to a smaller bimodal activation pattern mainly located in the right insula and likely related to the detection of novelty.
The current study addressed when in the course of stimulus processing, and in what brain areas, activity occurs that supports the interpretation of cues that signal the appropriateness of different and competing behaviors. Twelve subjects completed interleaved no-go-, pro-, and antitrials, whereas 64-channel electroencephalography was recorded. Principle component and distributed source analyses were used to evaluate the spatial distribution and time course of cortical activity supporting cue evaluation and response selection. By 158 ms poststimulus, visual cortex activity was lower for no-go trials than it was for both pro- and antitrials, consistent with an early sensory filter on the no-go cue. Prefrontal cortex (PFC) activity at 158 ms was highest during antitrials, consistent with this brain region's putative involvement in executive control. At 204 ms poststimulus, however, PFC activity was the same for pro- and antitrials, consistent with an ostensible role in response selection. PFC activity at 204 ms also was robustly inversely correlated (r = -0.75) with visual cortex activity on antitrials, perhaps indicating top-down modulation of early sensory processing that would decrease the probability of an error response. These data highlight how a distributed neural architecture supports the evaluation of stimuli and response choices.
The present work investigates the relationship between semantic and prosodic (metric) processing in spoken language under 2 attentional conditions (semantic and metric tasks) by analyzing both behavioral and event-related potential (ERP) data. Participants listened to short sentences ending in semantically and/or metrically congruous or incongruous trisyllabic words. In the metric task, ERP data showed that metrically incongruous words elicited both larger early negative and late positive components than metrically congruous words, thereby demonstrating the online processing of the metric structure of words. Moreover, in the semantic task, metrically incongruous words also elicited an early negative component with similar latency and scalp distribution as the classical N400 component. This finding highlights the automaticity of metrical structure processing. Moreover, it demonstrates that violations of a word's metric structure may hinder lexical access and word comprehension. This interpretation is supported by the behavioral data showing that participants made more errors for semantically congruous but metrically incongruous words when they were attending to the semantic aspects of the sentence. Finally, the finding of larger N400 components to semantically incongruous than congruous words, in both the semantic and metric tasks, suggests that the N400 component reflects automatic aspects of semantic processing.
Smooth pursuit eye movements function to keep moving targets foveated. Behavioral studies have shown that pursuit is particularly effective for predictable target motion. There is evidence that both the frontal eye field (FEF) and supplementary eye field (SEF) (also known as the dorsomedial frontal cortex) contribute to pursuit control. The goal of the current experiment was to determine whether these 2 areas made different contributions to the initiation of pursuit in response to predictable compared with unpredictable target motion. Transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) was used in 5 healthy human participants to temporarily disrupt each area around the time of target motion onset. TMS over the FEF delayed contraversive pursuit markedly more than ipsiversive pursuit and this direction-dependent difference was more deeply modulated during pursuit of unpredictable than predictable target motion. By contrast, TMS over the SEF resulted in a much more muted modulation of pursuit latency that was similar across both predictable and unpredictable conditions. Taken together, we conclude that the human FEF, but not the SEF, makes a significant contribution to the processing required during the preparation of contraversive pursuit responses to unpredictable target motion and this contribution is less vital during pursuit to predictable target motion.
The aim of this study was to quantify the total number of neurons and glial cells in the mediodorsal nucleus of the thalamus (MD) of 8 newborn human brains, in comparison to 8 adult human brains. The estimates of the cell numbers were obtained using the stereological principles of the optical fractionator. In the case of the adults, the total number of neurons in the entire MD was an average of 41% lower than in the newborn, which was statistically highly significant (P &lt; 0.001). The estimated average total number of neurons in MD thalamus of the newborns was 11.2 million (coefficient of variation [CV] = standard deviation/mean = 0.16), compared with the adults' 6.43 million (CV = 0.15). The glial cell numbers were substantially higher in the adult brains, with an increase of almost 4 times from 10.6 million at birth to 36.3 million in the fully developed adult brain. This is the first demonstration of a higher number of human neurons in the brain of newborns compared with the adult.
Although it has long been known that right posterior parietal cortex (PPC) has a role in certain visual search tasks, and human motion area V5 is involved in processing tasks requiring attention to motion, little is known about how these areas may interact during the processing of a task requiring the speciality of each. Using transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS), this study first established the specialization of each area in the form of a double dissociation; TMS to right PPC disrupted processing of a color/form conjunction and TMS to V5 disrupted processing of a motion/form conjunction. The key finding of this study is, however, if TMS is used to disrupt processing of V5 at its critical time of activation during the motion/form conjunction task, concurrent disruption of right PPC now has a significant effect, where TMS at PPC alone does not. Our findings challenge the conventional interpretation of the role of right PPC in conjunction search and spatial attention.
Differences in binding-site residues of GluR2 (AMPAR) and GluR6 (KAR) subunits have been identified that might account for their functional and pharmacological differences. Specifically, residues A518, A689 and N721 in GluR6 replace highly conserved threonine and serine residues found in other ionotropic glutamate receptor (iGluR) subunits. To define how these natural substitutions impact GluR6 function, we used patch clamp recording with ultrafast perfusion to characterize the effects of A518T, A689S and N721T on agonist potency, efficacy and response kinetics. We find these natural substitutions impact GluR6 function less than would be expected from reverse mutations in other iGluRs. There was little effect of individual or combined mutations on glutamate potency, deactivation or desensitization kinetics. Altered recovery kinetics were seen that were greatest after combined mutations. Kainate potency and response kinetics were also unchanged in the mutants, whereas kainate efficacy was reduced in A518T and increased the T/S/T mutant relative glutamate. Notably, A518T and A689S mutation permitted AMPA to bind as a weak competitive antagonist and the effects of these mutations were additive. N721T mutation further enhanced AMPA binding, allowing AMPA to activate and fully desensitize the receptors. Alternative mutations altering side chain length at position 518 produced far greater changes in glutamate affinity and response kinetics than did the natural mutations. We conclude that these nonconserved residues in GluR6 define the size of the agonist-binding pocket, exerting a steric influence on the bound agonist and the extent of binding-domain closure that can influence agonist potency, deactivation, desensitization and recovery kinetics.
Discrimination of edible and noxious food is crucial for survival in all organisms. We have studied the physiology of the gustatory receptor neurons (GRNs) in contact chemosensilla (insect gustatory organs) located on the antennae of the moth Heliothis virescens, emphasizing putative phagostimulants and deterrents. Sucrose and the 2 bitter substances quinine and sinigrin elicited responses in a larger proportion of GRNs than inositol, KCl, NaCl, and ethanol, and the firing thresholds were lowest for sucrose and quinine. Variations in GRN composition in individual sensilla occurred without any specific patterns to indicate specific sensillum types. Separate neurons showed excitatory responses to sucrose and the 2 bitter substances quinine and sinigrin, implying that the moth might be able to discriminate bitter substances in addition to separating phagostimulants and deterrents. Besides being detected by separate receptors on the moth antennae, the bitter tastants were shown to have an inhibitory effect on phagostimulatory GRNs. Sucrose was highly appetitive in behavioral studies of proboscis extension, whereas quinine had a nonappetitive effect in the moths.
The judgment of pleasantness/unpleasantness is the prominent reaction to the olfactory world. In human adults, the hedonic valence of odor perception is affected by various factors, among which is an individual's lexical knowledge about smells. The present study examined whether such top-down effects of lexical knowledge on hedonic judgment of olfactory input are similar in children (5-6 years) and adults (20-25 years). In both groups, the lexical knowledge was found to influence the perception of the least emotional (or most neutral) odors: the pleasantness of the smells of banana and mint was enhanced when participants were given the corresponding odor label before olfactory sensation. These results lend support to the notion that, during childhood, smells are not only encoded perceptually but that verbal encoding also steers contextual effects that may be prominent factors in the early memorization and categorization of odors.
To date, only one study has examined responses to monosodium glutamate (MSG) from gustatory neurons in the rat geniculate ganglion and none to free fatty acids. Accordingly, we recorded single-cell responses from geniculate ganglion gustatory neurons in anesthetized male rats to MSG and linoleic acid (LA), as well as to sucrose, NaCl, citric acid, and quinine hydrochloride. None of the 52 neurons responded to any LA concentration. In contrast, both narrowly tuned groups of gustatory neurons (sucrose specialists and NaCl specialists) responded to MSG, as did 2 of the broadly tuned groups (NaCl generalist(I) and acid generalists). NaCl-generalist(II) neurons responded only to the highest MSG concentration and only at low rates. No neuron type responded best to MSG; rather, responses to 0.1 M MSG were significantly less than those to NaCl for Na(+) -sensitive neurons and to sucrose for sucrose specialists. Interestingly, most Na(+) -sensitive neurons responded to 0.3 M MSG at levels comparable with those to 0.1 M NaCl, whereas sucrose specialists responded to 0.1 M MSG despite being unresponsive to NaCl. These results suggest that the stimulatory effect of MSG involves activation of sweet- or salt-sensitive receptors. We propose that glutamate underlies the MSG response of sucrose specialists, whereas Na(+) -sensitive neurons respond to the sodium cation. For the latter neuron groups, the large glutamate anion may reduce the driving force for sodium through epithelial channels on taste cell membranes. The observed concentration-dependent responses are consistent with this idea, as are cross-adaptation studies using 0.1 M concentrations of MSG and NaCl in subsets of these Na(+) -sensitive neurons.
The goal of this study was to examine structured language skills in children with perinatal strokes. Participants were 28 school-age children with early focal brain lesions (17 with left hemisphere [LH] damage, 11 with right hemisphere [RH] damage), and 57 controls. A standardized test of language (Clinical Evaluation of Language Fundamentals-Revised) was administered. Receptive, Expressive, and Total Language scores, as well as subtest scores, were analyzed. Control participants scored within the normal range, whereas the LH and RH groups scored significantly more poorly than did controls. There were no differences between the LH and RH groups on any of the language scores, and all scores were below the 14th percentile. Within the lesion group as a whole, scores were not related to lesion laterality, site, or severity. Results also were not accounted for by socioeconomic status or IQ. However, children who experienced seizures demonstrated significantly poorer performance than did children who did not experience seizures. Damage to either the LH or RH early in development adversely affects later language abilities, particularly on tasks with structured and complex linguistic demands. Although lesion side has little effect, the presence or absence of seizures is a major contributor to language outcome.


1. S100B is a calcium-binding protein that acts as a neurotrophic cytokine and is expressed in the central nervous system, predominantly by astrocytes. At nanomolar concentrations, S100B stimulates neurite outgrowth and glial glutamate uptake, as well as protecting neurons against glutamate excitoxicity. 2. Peripheral S100B concentrations, particularly in the serum and cerebrospinal fluid (CSF), have been used as a parameter of glial activation or death in several physiological and pathological conditions. 3. In the present study, we investigated the effect of anaesthetics (thiopental, ketamine and halothane) on CSF concentrations of S100B, as well as a possible sex dependence, because several studies have suggested astrocytes as putative targets for oestrogen. 4. Higher levels of CSF S100B were found when rats were anaesthetized with thiopental; these levels, independently of anaesthetic, were sex dependent. Conversely, no effect of anaesthetic or sex was observed on serum concentrations of S100B. 5. The increase in CSF concentrations of S100B induced by thiopental was confirmed in non-anaesthetized neonatal rats and cortical astrocyte cultures. 6. Assuming CSF S100B as a marker of development, glial activation or even brain damage, investigations regarding the sex dependence of its concentration may be useful in gaining an understanding of sex variations in the behaviour and the pathological course of, as well as susceptibility to, many brain disorders. The findings of the present study reinforce the sex effect on synaptic plasticity and suggest a sex dependence of neural communication mediated by extracellular S100B without restricting the influence of astrocytes on the developmental phase.

Despite the discovery of at least five pathogenic genes in Parkinson disease (PD), the genetic etiology in the vast majority of PD remains to be clarified. Common genetic variants could act as susceptibility risk factors. Our previous meta-analysis of PD genetic association studies, over a 30-year period yielded four genes (N-acetylcysteine 2, monoamine oxidase B, glutathione transferase, and mitochondrial tRNA), as their common variants were found to be associated with PD. More recently, international collaborative studies and meta-analysis have identified the S18Y variant of ubiquitin carboxy-terminal hydrolase L1, Rep 1 variant of alpha-synuclein and tau H1 haplotype to be genetic susceptibility risk/protective factors. However, the most significant, common genetic risk factor in PD has been its association with the leucine-rich repeat kinase-2 (LRRK2) G2385R variant. We conducted an analysis of independent studies involving 2205 PD and 1817 controls and found the average carrier rate of G2385R variant to be about 9% in PD and 4% in controls (p &lt; 0.001; odds ratio: 2.27; 95% confidence interval: 1.78-2.9). A higher frequency of G2385R carriers has been observed in familial PD when compared with sporadic patients. Based on current evidence, certain common genetic variants are likely to modulate the risk of PD.



As clinical and cognitive neurosciences mature, the need for sophisticated neuroimaging analysis becomes more apparent. Multivariate analysis techniques have recently received increasing attention because they have attractive features that cannot be easily realized by the more commonly used univariate, voxel-wise, techniques. Multivariate approaches evaluate correlation/covariance of activation across brain regions, rather than proceeding on a voxel-by-voxel basis. Thus, their results can be more easily interpreted as a signature of neural networks. Univariate approaches, in contrast, cannot directly address functional connectivity in the brain. Apart from this conceptual difference, the covariance approach can also result in greater statistical power when compared with univariate techniques, which are forced to employ very stringent, and often overly conservative, corrections for voxel-wise multiple comparisons. Multivariate techniques also lend themselves much better to prospective application of results from the analysis of one dataset to entirely new datasets. We provide two examples that illustrate different uses of multivariate techniques in cognitive and clinical neuroscience. We hope this contribution helps facilitate wider dissemination of these techniques in the research community.

Metabolic disorders induced by high-fat feeding in rodents evoke some, if not all, of the features of human metabolic syndrome. The occurrence and severity of metabolic disorders, however, varies according to rodent species, and even strain, as well as the diet. Therefore, in the present study, we investigated the long-term obesogenic and diabetogenic effects of three high-fat diets differing by their fat/carbohydrate ratios. Sprague-Dawley rats were fed a control high-carbohydrate and low-fat diet [HCD; 3:16:6 ratio of fat/carbohydrate/protein; 15.48 kJ/g (3.7 kcal/g)], a high-fat and medium-carbohydrate diet [HFD1; 53:30:17 ratio of fat/carbohydrate/protein; 19.66 kJ/g (4.7 kcal/g)], a very-high-fat and low-carbohydrate diet [HFD2; 67:9:24 ratio of fat/carbohydrate/protein; 21.76 kJ/g (5.2 kcal/g)] or a very-high-fat and carbohydrate-free diet [HFD3; 75:0:25 ratio of fat/carbohydrate/protein; 24.69 kJ/g (5.9 kcal/g)] for 10 weeks. Compared with the control diet (HCD), rats fed with high-fat combined with more (HFD1) or less (HFD2) carbohydrate exhibited higher BMI (body mass index; +13 and +10% respectively; P&lt;0.05) and abdominal fat (+70% in both HFD1 and HFD2; P&lt;0.05), higher plasma leptin (+130 and +135% respectively; P&lt;0.05), lower plasma adiponectin levels (-23 and -30% respectively; P&lt;0.05) and impaired glucose tolerance. Only the HFD1 group had insulin resistance. By contrast, a very-high-fat diet devoid of carbohydrate (HFD3) led to impaired glucose tolerance, insulin resistance and hypoadiponectinaemia (-50%; P&lt;0.05), whereas BMI, adiposity and plasma leptin did not differ from respective values in animals fed the control diet. We conclude that increasing the fat-to-carbohydrate ratio to the uppermost (i.e. carbohydrate-free) in a high-fat diet prevents the development of obesity, but not the prediabetic state (i.e. altered glucose tolerance and insulin sensitivity).




Most animals have evolved multiple olfactory systems to detect general odors as well as social cues. The sophistication and interaction of these systems permit precise detection of food, danger, and mates, all crucial elements for survival. In most mammals, the nose contains two well described chemosensory apparatuses (the main olfactory epithelium and the vomeronasal organ), each of which comprises several subtypes of sensory neurons expressing distinct receptors and signal transduction machineries. In many species (e.g., rodents), the nasal cavity also includes two spatially segregated clusters of neurons forming the septal organ of Masera and the Grueneberg ganglion. Results of recent studies suggest that these chemosensory systems perceive diverse but overlapping olfactory cues and that some neurons may even detect the pressure changes carried by the airflow. This review provides an update on how chemosensory neurons transduce chemical (and possibly mechanical) stimuli into electrical signals, and what information each system brings into the brain. Future investigation will focus on the specific ligands that each system detects with a behavioral context and the processing networks that each system involves in the brain. Such studies will lead to a better understanding of how the multiple olfactory systems, acting in concert, offer a complete representation of the chemical world.
Complex neurodevelopmental disorders, such as schizophrenia, autism, attention deficit (hyperactivity) disorder, (manic) depressive illness and addiction, are thought to result from an interaction between genetic and environmental factors. Association studies on candidate genes and genome-wide linkage analyses have identified many susceptibility chromosomal regions and genes, but considerable efforts to replicate association have been surprisingly often disappointing. Here, we summarize the current knowledge of the genetic contribution to complex neurodevelopmental disorders, focusing on the findings from association and linkage studies. Furthermore, the contribution of the interaction of the genetic with environmental and epigenetic factors to the aetiology of complex neurodevelopmental disorders as well as suggestions for future research are discussed.

Intraventricular hemorrhage (IVH) may occur as an isolated event from primary ventricular bleeding or as a complication of brain hemorrhage from another etiology. It is associated with high mortality and morbidity. Recent translational and clinical studies demonstrate that thrombolytic drugs administered intraventricularly through an external ventricular drain to lyse an IVH clot are safe and may reduce morbidity and mortality. The ongoing, prospective, randomized clinical trial known as Clot Lysis: Evaluating Accelerated Resolution of Intraventricular Hemorrhage (CLEAR IVH) offers new hope for patients with this devastating disease. Preliminary data show marked reduction in time to clot lysis as well as a potential reduction in mortality associated with IVH lysis. A large, phase III, randomized prospective trial to ascertain the true clinical efficacy of this treatment is currently in the planning stages. A review of the use of thrombolytics for treatment of IVH related to other secondary causes is also provided.


The goal of epilepsy treatment is the prevention of recurrent seizures, and antiepileptic drugs (AEDs) are the mainstay. Uncontrolled seizures may cause medical, developmental, and psychologic disturbances. Treatment advances include 1) identification of the basic mechanisms of epilepsy and action of AEDs, 2) the introduction of many new AEDs, and 3) the use of neurostimulation, starting with vagus nerve stimulation. We must balance the efficacy of an AED versus its side effects, which if persistent, lead to patient discontinuation of the AED. Although all AEDs have a proven efficacy, they are differentiated by their efficacy for a given seizure type or epilepsy syndrome versus the side effects or tolerability. The many new AEDs give us a larger armamentarium for epilepsy treatment. We refer to studies and expert opinion consensus.
Neurogenesis in the developing neocortex is a strictly regulated process of cell division and differentiation. Here we report that a gradual retreat of canonical Wnt signaling in the cortex from lateral-to-medial and anterior-to-posterior is a prerequisite of neurogenesis. Ectopic expression of a beta-catenin/LEF1 fusion protein maintains active canonical Wnt signaling in the developing cortex and delays the expression onset of the neurogenic factors Pax6, Ngn2 and Tbr2 and subsequent neurogenesis. Contrary to this, conditional ablation of beta-catenin accelerates expression of the same neurogenic genes. Furthermore, we show that a sustained canonical Wnt activity in the lateral cortex gives rise to cells with hippocampal characteristics in the cortical plate at the expense of the cortical fate, and to cells with dentate gyrus characteristics in the hippocampus. This suggests that the dose of canonical Wnt signaling determines cellular fate in the developing cortex and hippocampus, and that recession of Wnt signaling acts as a morphogenetic gradient regulating neurogenesis in the cortex.
The Bergmann glia is a unipolar astrocyte in the cerebellar cortex, displaying a tight association with Purkinje cells. The cell bodies of Bergmann glia are located in a row around Purkinje cell somata; they extend radially arranged Bergmann fibers which enwrap the synapses on the Purkinje cell dendrites. It is well known that Bergmann glial somata migrate from the ventricular zone through the mantle zone, forming an epithelium-like lining in the Purkinje cell layer during development. However, the mechanism of the monolayer formation of Bergmann glia is poorly understood. Several reports have suggested that Notch signaling plays instructive roles in promoting the identities of several types of glial cells, including Bergmann glia. Moreover, Notch receptors are expressed in Bergmann glia during development. Here, we have deleted the Notch1, Notch2 and RBP-J genes in the Bergmann glia by GFAP-driven, Cre-mediated recombination, to study the role of Notch-RBP-J-signaling in the monolayer formation of Bergmann glia. Notch1/2- and RBP-J-conditional mutant mice showed disorganization of Bergmann fibers, irregularities of the Bergmann glial lining and aberrant localization of Bergmann glia in the molecular layer. Thus, Notch-RBP-J signaling plays crucial roles in the monolayer formation and morphogenesis of Bergmann glia.
Nitric oxide (NO) plays major roles during development and in adult organisms. We examined the temporal and spatial patterns of nitric oxide synthase (NOS) appearance in the embryonic lobster brain to localize sources of NO activity; potential NO targets were identified by defining the distribution of NO-induced cGMP. Staining patterns are compared with NOS and cyclic 3,5 guanosine monophosphate (cGMP) distribution in adult lobster brains. Manipulation of NO levels influences olfactory glomerular formation and stabilization, as well as levels of neurogenesis among the olfactory projection neurons. In the first 2 days following ablation of the lateral antennular flagella in juvenile lobsters, a wave of increased NOS immunoreactivity and a reduction in neurogenesis occur. These studies implicate nitric oxide as a developmental architect and also support a role for this molecule in the neural response to injury in the olfactory pathway.
Neonatal maternal separation alters learning and memory. Glucocorticoids also modulate adult learning and memory, and neonatal maternal separation alters forebrain glucocorticoid receptor (GR) concentrations. We used eyeblink classical conditioning to assess the effect of neonatal maternal separation on associative learning. We assessed delay eyeblink conditioning, GR expression, and total neuron number in the interpositus nucleus, a critical site of plasticity in eyeblink conditioning, in adult rats that had undergone either standard animal facilities rearing, handling for 15 min, or maternal separation for either 15 or 60 min per day on postnatal days 2-14. At 2-3 months of age, delay eyeblink classical conditioning was assessed. Brains were processed for GR immunohistochemistry, and GR expression in the interpositus nucleus was assessed using a computer-based densitometry system. Neuron counts and nuclear volumes were obtained from an alternate series of thionin-stained sections. Maternal separation significantly impaired eyeblink conditioning in male but not female rats. Handling and maternal separation did not significantly affect interpositus neuron number and volume. However, prolonged maternal separation significantly increased GR expression in the posterior interpositus in males, and increases were correlated with eyeblink conditioning. In female rats, maternal separation and handling did not significantly alter interpositus neuron number, volume, or GR protein expression, and GR expression did not correlate with eyeblink conditioning. Thus, neonatal maternal separation produces adult deficits in eyeblink conditioning and alterations in GR expression in its neural substrate in a sex-dependent manner.
Monkeys have strong abilities to remember the visual properties of potential food sources for survival in the nature. The present study demonstrated the first observations of rhesus monkeys learning to solve complex spatial mazes in which routes were guided by visual cues. Three monkeys were trained in a maze (6 m x 6 m) included of four different mazes. We recorded the cue and cup errors, latencies, and pathway for each trial. The data showed that monkeys learned the target place after three days in the first maze and spent a shorter time in learning the following mazes. The maze was an efficient method to measure the ability and proceeding of spatial memory in monkeys. Moreover, working memory can also be tested by using the maze. MK-801 at 0.02 mg/kg but not at 0.005 mg/kg impaired monkeys' retrieval of spatial memory after they learned all four mazes. The present maze may provide an efficient method to help bridging the gap in cognition between nonhuman primates and humans, and in particular to gain insight into human cognitive function and dysfunction.
Neurotrophin activation of Trk receptors elicits diverse effects on neuronal survival, differentiation, and synaptic plasticity. One of the central questions is how specificity is encoded in neurotrophin receptor signaling and actions. A unique downstream protein is the Ankyrin-Repeat Rich Membrane Spanning (ARMS)/Kinase D-interacting substrate-220 kDa (Kidins220), a very abundant scaffold protein in the hippocampus. To determine the roles of ARMS/Kidins220 in hippocampal neurons, we have analyzed the effects of synaptic activity upon the regulation and distribution of ARMS/Kidins220. At early times in vitro (&lt;7 DIV), synaptic activity was low and ARMS/Kidins220 levels were high. As synaptic activity and markers for synapse maturation, such as PSD-95, increased, ARMS/Kidins220 significantly decreased to a plateau by later times in vitro (&gt;12 DIV). Immunocytochemistry showed ARMS/Kidins220 to be concentrated at the tips of growing processes in immature cultures, and more diffusely distributed in older cultures. To examine the apparent inverse relationship between activity and ARMS/Kidins220 levels, neuronal firing was manipulated pharmacologically. Chronic exposure to TTX increased ARMS/Kidins220 levels, whereas bicuculline caused the opposite effect. Moreover, using shRNA to decrease ARMS/Kidins220 levels produced a corresponding increase in synaptic activity. We find that ARMS/Kidins220 may function in neuronal development as an indicator and potentially as a homeostatic regulator of overall synaptic strength in hippocampal neurons.
Time perception is important for many aspects of human behavior, and a large literature documents that adults represent intervals and that their ability to discriminate temporal intervals is ratio dependent. Here we replicate a recent study by vanMarle and Wynn (2006) that used the visual habituation paradigm and demonstrated that temporal discrimination in 6-month-old infants is also ratio dependent. We further demonstrate that between 6 and 10 months of age temporal discrimination increases in precision such that by 10 months of age infants succeed at discriminating a 2:3 ratio, a ratio that 6-month-old infants were unable to discriminate. We discuss the potential implications of the fact that temporal discrimination follows the same developmental progression that has been previously observed for number discrimination in infancy (Lipton &amp; Spelke, 2003).
In contrast to cyclin D1 nulls (cD1-/-), mice without cyclin D2 (cD2-/-) lack cerebellar stellate interneurons; the reason for this is unknown. In the present study in cortex, we found a disproportionate loss of parvalbumin (PV) interneurons in cD2-/- mice. This selective reduction in PV subtypes was associated with reduced frequency of GABA-mediated inhibitory postsynaptic currents in pyramidal neurons, as measured by voltage-clamp recordings, and increased cortical sharp activity in the EEGs of awake-behaving cD2-/- mice. Cell cycle regulation was examined in the medial ganglionic eminence (MGE), the major source of PV interneurons in mouse brain, and differences between cD2-/- and cD1-/- suggested that cD2 promotes subventricular zone (SVZ) divisions, exerting a stronger inhibitory influence on the p27 Cdk-inhibitor (Cdkn1b) to delay cell cycle exit of progenitors. We propose that cD2 promotes transit-amplifying divisions in the SVZ and that these ensure proper output of at least a subset of PV interneurons.
Holoprosencephaly (HPE) is a devastating forebrain abnormality with a range of morphological defects characterized by loss of midline tissue. In the telencephalon, the embryonic precursor of the cerebral hemispheres, specialized cell types form a midline that separates the hemispheres. In the present study, deletion of the BMP receptor genes, Bmpr1b and Bmpr1a, in the mouse telencephalon results in a loss of all dorsal midline cell types without affecting the specification of cortical and ventral precursors. In the holoprosencephalic Shh(-/-) mutant, by contrast, ventral patterning is disrupted, whereas the dorsal midline initially forms. This suggests that two separate developmental mechanisms can underlie the ontogeny of HPE. The Bmpr1a;Bmpr1b mutant provides a model for a subclass of HPE in humans: midline inter-hemispheric HPE.


In NSE-Hu-Bcl-2 transgenic mice, line 71, retina undergoes early postnatal degeneration linked to the prior death of Mller cells. The purpose of this study was to complete the characterization of this retinal dysfunction by using electroretinographic (ERG) recordings in both scotopic and photopic conditions. Here, we showed that both rod and cone systems were profoundly affected in NSE-Hu-Bcl-2 transgenic mice as soon as 15 postnatal days in accordance with histological study performed previously.
The mouse retina contains two classes of cone photopigment with respective peak sensitivities in the middle (M) wavelengths and in the ultraviolet (UV) portion of the spectrum. To examine the functional roles subserved by the UV pigment, the absorption of light by the mouse lens was measured and voltage versus intensity (V-log I) functions were derived from recordings of the flicker ERG made under test conditions designed to maximize the relative sensitivities of the two pigment types. These V-log I data accurately predict ERG-based spectral sensitivity functions, but they fail to provide a similarly accurate account of behaviorally based measurements of spectral sensitivity in that the ERG spectral sensitivity function has much higher sensitivity in the UV wavelengths than does the behavioral spectral sensitivity function. The disparity between these two is argued to be a consequence of the widespread receptor co-expression of the two types of cone pigment in the mouse and of the pattern of retinal wiring that is thought to be characteristic of all mammalian retinas.
There are substantial differences between individuals in the effects of antipsychotic drugs in the treatment of schizophrenia. This is apparent in symptom response, as well as in the emergence of side effects, such as tardive dyskinesia or weight gain. Genetic variation is likely to contribute substantially; in the past decade genetic polymorphisms in candidate genes have been identified which are associated with these individual differences. Whether pharmacogenetics will prove valuable in antipsychotic drug discovery is unclear, although it is already elucidating mechanisms of antipsychotic drug action, and genetic testing may well lead to a future of individualised drug treatment.
Modulating activity at the 5-HT(2C) receptor holds a tremendous amount of therapeutic promise in multiple psychiatric indications. However, the signaling and regulation of the 5-HT(2C) receptor is highly complex due to multiple signaling pathways and agonist-directed trafficking of this receptor. Moreover, the 5-HT(2C) receptor is differentially regulated via RNA editing in multiple psychiatric disorders and following either pharmacological or environmental manipulation. Direct and indirect data suggest that both agonists and antagonists may provide benefits in several disorders. The current review highlights the underlying complexities of this area and provides the rationale for using 5-HT(2C) agonists in the treatment of both schizophrenia and depressive disorders.
Recent dual-process models of decision making have suggested that emotion plays an important role in decision making; however, the impact of incidental moods (i.e., emotions unrelated to the immediate situation) on decisions remains poorly explored. This question was investigated by inducing 2 basic emotional states (amusement or sadness) that were compared with a neutral-emotion control group. Decision making was assessed with a well-studied social task, the Ultimatum Game. In this task, participants had to make decisions to either accept or reject monetary offers from other players, offers that varied in their degree of unfairness. Emotion was induced with short movie clips. Induced sadness interacted with offer fairness, with higher sadness resulting in lower acceptance rates of unfair offers. Induced amusement was not associated with any significant biases in decision making. These results demonstrate that even subtle incidental moods can play an important role in biasing decision making. Implications of these results in regards to the emotion, cognitive neuroscience, and clinical literatures are discussed.
Emotional and neutral sounds rated for valence and arousal were used to investigate the influence of emotions on timing in reproduction and verbal estimation tasks with durations from 2 s to 6 s. Results revealed an effect of emotion on temporal judgment, with emotional stimuli judged to be longer than neutral ones for a similar arousal level. Within scalar expectancy theory (J. Gibbon, R. Church, &amp; W. Meck, 1984), this suggests that emotion-induced activation generates an increase in pacemaker rate, leading to a longer perceived duration. A further exploration of self-assessed emotional dimensions showed an effect of valence and arousal. Negative sounds were judged to be longer than positive ones, indicating that negative stimuli generate a greater increase of activation. High-arousing stimuli were perceived to be shorter than low-arousing ones. Consistent with attentional models of timing, this seems to reflect a decrease of attention devoted to time, leading to a shorter perceived duration. These effects, robust across the 2 tasks, are limited to short intervals and overall suggest that both activation and attentional processes modulate the timing of emotional events.
Timing is a critical factor in neuroendocrinology. Despite this, the temporal aspects of glucocorticoid signaling in the regulation of in vivo targets have been largely overlooked. Here, we present data showing that plasma glucocorticoid levels differ greatly from the constant signal predominantly used in cell culture experiments. Using an automated blood sampling system, we found that under basal conditions in nonstressed rats, corticosterone release occurs in discrete pulses of various amplitudes dependent on the circadian cycle. This basal pattern changes to a prolonged elevated nonpulsatile release in response to stressful stimuli. We have been able to recapitulate these different patterns of corticosterone presentation (short pulse vs. prolonged elevation) in adrenalectomized rats, and show that each pattern results in differential activation of hippocampal glucocorticoid and mineralocorticoid receptors. Finally, we provide evidence for a rapid proteasome-dependent clearance of activated glucocorticoid receptors, but not mineralocorticoid receptors, as a novel mechanism to allow dynamic interaction with rapidly changing physiological and environmental conditions.
Postnatal events contribute to features of the metabolic syndrome in adulthood. In this study, postnatally administered testosterone reduced insulin sensitivity and increased the mesenteric fat depot, the size of mesenteric adipocytes, serum levels of total cholesterol, low-density lipoprotein cholesterol, and triglycerides, and the atherogenic index in adult female rats. To assess the involvement of estrogen and androgen receptors in these programming effects, we compared testosterone-exposed rats to rats exposed to estradiol or dihydrotestosterone (DHT). Estradiol-treated rats had lower insulin sensitivity than testosterone-treated rats and, like those rats, had enlarged mesenteric adipocytes and increased triglyceride levels. DHT also reduced insulin sensitivity but did not mimic the other metabolic effects of testosterone. All treated rats were probably anovulatory, but only those treated with testosterone had reduced testosterone levels. This study confirms our previous finding that postnatal administration of testosterone reduces insulin sensitivity in adult female rats and shows that this effect is accompanied by unfavorable changes in mesenteric fat tissue and in serum lipid levels. The findings in the estradiol and DHT groups suggest that estrogen receptors exert stronger metabolic programming effects than androgen receptors. Thus, insults such as sex hormone exposure in early life may have long-lasting effects, thereby creating a predisposition to disturbances in insulin sensitivity, adipose tissue, and lipid profile in adulthood.
Much has been learned in recent years about the central mechanisms controlling the initiation of mammalian puberty. It is now clear that this process requires the interactive participation of several genes. Using a combination of high throughput, molecular, and bioinformatics strategies, in combination with a system biology approach, we singled out from the hypothalamus of nonhuman primates and rats a group of related genes whose expression increases at the time of female puberty. Although these genes [henceforth termed tumor-related genes (TRGs)] have diverse cellular functions, they share the common feature of having been earlier identified as involved in tumor suppression/tumor formation. A prominent member of this group is KiSS1, a gene recently shown to be essential for the occurrence of puberty. Cis-regulatory analysis revealed the presence of a hierarchically arranged gene set containing five major hubs (CDP/CUTL1, MAF, p53, YY1, and USF2) controlling the network at the transcriptional level. In turn, these hubs are heavily connected to non-TRGs involved in the transcriptional regulation of the pubertal process. TRGs may be expressed in the mammalian hypothalamus as components of a regulatory gene network that facilitates and integrates cellular and cell-cell communication programs required for the acquisition of female reproductive competence.
Tryptophan hydroxylase (TPH, the rate-limiting enzyme of serotonin synthesis) protein and mRNA levels display a circadian expression in the rat dorsal and median raphe. These patterns suggest a rhythmic synthesis of serotonin under the control of the master clock of suprachiasmatic nuclei. In the present study, we examined the involvement of endocrine and behavioral output signals of the master clock upon the Tph2 mRNA levels by quantitative in situ hybridization. In the absence of adrenals, a complete suppression of Tph2 mRNA rhythm was observed in dorsal and median raphe over 24 h. The restoration of corticosterone daily variations in adrenalectomized rats induced a Tph2 mRNA rhythmic pattern de novo, indicating that Tph2 mRNA rhythm is dependent upon daily fluctuations of glucocorticoids. Enhanced voluntary locomotor activity during 6 wk increased the level of Tph2 mRNA in both raphe nuclei of control rats without concomitant increase of corticosterone plasma levels. Moreover, this long-term enhanced locomotor activity was able to restore significant variation of Tph2 mRNA in adrenalectomized rats. In conclusion, both endocrine and behavioral cues can modulate Tph2 expression in dorsal and median raphe. The corticosterone surge acts as a rhythmic cue that induces the rhythmic expression of Tph2 in the raphe neurons. On the other hand, long-term exercise modulates the expression levels of this gene. Thus, the serotonin neurons are a target for both endocrine and behavioral circadian cues, and the serotoninergic input to the suprachiasmatic nuclei might feedback and influence the functioning of the clock itself.
Endothelial dysfunction is a major feature of vascular diseases. A practical, minimally invasive method to effectively &quot;probe&quot; gene transcription for an individual patient's endothelium has potential to &quot;customize&quot; assessment for an individual at risk of vascular disease as well as pathophysiologic insight in an in vivo human, clinical context. Published literature lacks a methodology to identify endothelial differential gene expression in individuals with vascular disease. We describe a methodology to do so. The aim of this study was to specifically utilize (a) cutaneous microvascular biopsy, (b) laser capture microdissection, (c) cDNA amplification, (d) suppression subtractive hybridization, (e) high-throughput sequencing techniques, (f) real-time polymerase chain reaction (PCR), and (g) in combination of these methods, to profile differential gene expression in the context of cardiovascular and cerebrovascular disease. Endothelial cells were obtained by laser capture microdissection from a patient and a healthy sibling's microvascular biopsy tissues. Endothelial RNA was extracted, reverse transcribed, and amplified to ds cDNA. Suppression subtractive hybridization was used to establish an endothelial differential gene expression library. Real-time PCR confirmed SERP1, caspase 8, IGFBP7, S100A4, F85, and F147 up-regulation between 1.4- and 3.47-fold. The authors have successfully established a methodology to profile endothelial differential gene expression and identified six differentially expressed genes. This minimally invasive novel method has potential wide application in the customized assessment of many patients suffering vascular diseases.
The &quot;Fish Plasma Model&quot; has been proposed for prioritizing pharmaceuticals for in-depth environmental risk assessment efforts. The model compares estimated drug concentrations in fish plasma with human therapeutic plasma concentrations in order to assess the risk for a pharmacological interaction in the fish. In this study the equation used to estimate bioconcentration from water to fish blood plasma was field-tested by exposing rainbow trout in situ to sewage effluents from three treatment plants. Measured plasma levels of diclofenac, naproxen, ketoprofen and gemfibrozil were similar or lower than those modelled, which is acceptable for an early tier. However, measured levels of ibuprofen were &gt;200 times higher than modelled for the largest plant (Gryaab Gteborg). Comparing measured fish plasma concentrations to the human therapeutic concentrations ranked the relative risks from the pharmaceuticals. Diclofenac and gemfibrozil, followed by ibuprofen, presented the highest risk for target interactions, whereas naproxen and ketoprofen presented little risk. Remarkably, measured bioconcentration factors varied considerably between sites. This variation could not be attributed to differences in water concentrations, temperatures, pH or exposure times, thereby suggesting that chemical characteristics of effluents and/or recipient waters strongly affected the uptake/bioconcentration of the pharmaceuticals.
In a cohort of 275 Caucasians with a broad IGE phenotype, patients with absences were classified. Criteria of the 1989 Commission on Classification of the International League Against Epilepsy for Childhood Absence Epilepsy (CAE 1989 criteria) were compared with the stricter criteria of the ILAE Task Force for Classification and Terminology (CAE 2005 criteria). Among the 129 patients with absences without significant myoclonus, 50 had juvenile absence epilepsy 44 had CAE according to the CAE 1989 criteria and only 30 had CAE according to the CAE 2005 criteria. We found a significantly better outcome in patients considered as CAE by the CAE 2005 criteria, compared with those excluded. Strict criteria for classification of absence syndromes leave many patients unclassified. However, diagnostic criteria used to classify CAE patients have prognostic significance. We propose that patients are classified as having benign CAE or as having CAE with the adverse prognostic factors indicated.

The use of antiepileptic drugs (AEDs) in pregnancy is associated with an increased risk of fetal malformations. Although it is known that AEDs may differ with respect to the type of malformations they can induce, earlier studies have generally lacked the power to demonstrate differences between AEDs in their overall teratogenic potential. Furthermore, there is an urgent need to assess the clinical teratogenic potential of the newer-generation AEDs. Epilepsy and pregnancy registries have been established to provide such information, which is essential for the rational management of women with epilepsy with childbearing potential. The registries also provide opportunities for additional studies of seizures observed during pregnancy and labor and, with the enrolled woman's consent, for separate studies on cognitive outcomes and pharmacogenetics. Although most are prospective, the existing registries vary somewhat in design, which needs to be considered when their results are compared. Some registries are driven by pharmaceutical companies (often compelled by national or international drug licensing agencies) and provide data on pregnancy outcome related to the sponsor's own product. Others are organized by independent research groups and are potentially more useful in that they publish comparative data. This review provides a critical discussion and comparison of important methodological aspects of AED and pregnancy registries along with a summary of results published so far.
Infants born to mothers with epilepsy are at substantial risk for neurocognitive and behavioral disorders. Although exposure of the child to antiepileptic drugs (AEDs) during pregnancy and postnatally through breast milk has been implicated in disorders of higher cortical function, there have been relatively few clinical or animal studies examining the long-term effects of AEDs on cognition in the developing brain. In the limited animal studies done thus far, drug-specific effects on cognitive function have been identified. Phenobarbital, in particular, has been found to lead to adverse cognitive outcomes, whereas the newer AEDs have generally had more favorable outcomes. Although the pathophysiological mechanisms responsible for these deficits remain largely unknown, there is evidence that AEDs can adversely effect neuronal proliferation and migration, and increase apoptosis. While animal studies can provide valuable information regarding mechanism of AED-induced developmental pathology, they do not provide insight into cortical functions unique to humans, such as speech and language. Understanding the full spectrum of AED-induced effects on the developing brain will require both rigorous basic science and clinical studies.
The aim of this study was to explore whether change in verbal memory with time in patients with epilepsy is influenced by performance on tasks assessing verbal cognition or attention/processing speed. Thirty-six patients and twenty-five healthy controls were tested twice with median retest intervals of 4.8 and 3.1 years, respectively. Aspects of verbal memory, verbal cognition, and attention/processing speed were assessed. Decline in one verbal memory variable (Cronholm-Molander Memory Test Paired Associates -- Delayed Recall) was the strongest correlate of epilepsy. The second strongest correlate was a decrease in one attention/processing speed variable (Digit Symbol). The relationship between decline in verbal memory and epilepsy was not influenced by the decline in attention/processing speed, and the results did not support the notion that limited mental reserves as reflected in impaired verbal cognition or attention/processing speed can explain the relationship between verbal memory and epilepsy.
Social cognitive neuroscience has highlighted the importance of frontotemporal neurocircuitry for social cognition. Temporal lobe epilepsy (TLE) impacts these brain areas and their functional connections and might therefore specifically affect social perceptual and cognitive skills. In the study described here, an established paradigm was used to evaluate the social cognitive skills of female patients with left TLE. Study participants were shown dynamic animations in which virtual characters either looked at the human observer directly or looked away toward someone else, thus manipulating self-involvement. The virtual characters then exhibited different facial expressions that were either socially relevant or arbitrary. Participants were asked to rate the communicative intentions of the virtual character. Patients' ratings of communicative intent appeared to be linked to their own self-involvement in the interaction, whereas healthy volunteers' ratings of facial expressions were independent of self-involvement. Potential mechanisms for the observed differences are discussed.
Using electroencephalography (EEG) in combination with functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI), we studied a 9.5-year-old girl who developed cognitive and behavioral regression in association with intense interictal bilaterally synchronous epileptic discharges (IBSEDs) both during the awake state and during sleep. During runs of IBSEDs, EEG-fMRI demonstrated deactivations in the lateral and medial frontoparietal cortices, posterior cingulate gyrus, and cerebellum together with focal relative activations in the right frontal, parietal, and temporal cortices. The deactivations probably reflect the repercussion of the interictal epileptic activity on normal brain function which might cause the neuropsychological regression by inducing repetitive interruptions of neurophysiological function resulting in a chronic state of specific psychomotor impairment. The relative activations could possibly indicate the source of epileptic activity rapidly spreading to other brain regions.
The current paper considers a new perspective in research and designing which ergonomics is facing at present. It is related to a spectacular progress in neuroscience. Implementing both the latest research results concerning the functioning of neural systems and new non-invasive techniques of brain examination in ergonomics constitutes a serious challenge and, simultaneously, offers unprecedented opportunities for the discipline. This paper posits that assuming a neuroergonomic perspective in ergonomic research and designing leads to a new quality. Knowledge concerning neural structures and mechanisms responsible for behavioural, cognitive and emotional activity will force out the knowledge based on psychological constructs from the field of ergonomics. We are questioning the perception of neuroergonomics as a discipline which resorts to psychological constructs. We are postulating rejecting such constructs in neuroergonomic field as too general in their formulation of certain regularities and failing to ensure satisfying accuracy of measurement.


Cytokines have a central role in multiple sclerosis (MS) pathogenesis and may contribute to the aetiology of MS. A polymorphism in the IFNA17 gene with an allele carrying a pre-mature stop codon has been suggested to convey a 26-fold increased risk for MS. We investigated the possible association between this polymorphism and MS using population-based samples from a genetically well-characterized population. The IFNA17 gene variant was found in 2.8% of 327 MS cases and 3.3% of 698 referents (P = 0.64). Thus, our study does not support an association between the IFNA17 allele and risk for MS.
The P-type calcium current is mediated by a voltage-sensing CaV2.1 alpha subunit in combination with modulatory auxiliary subunits. In Purkinje neurones, this current has distinctively slow inactivation kinetics that may depend on alternative splicing of the alpha subunit and/or association with different CaVbeta subunits. To better understand the molecular components of P-type calcium current, we cloned a CaV2.1 cDNA from total mouse brain. The full-length CaV2.1 isoform that we isolated (GenBank AY714490) contains sequences recently shown to be present in Purkinje neurones. In agreement with previously published work, the alternatively spliced amino acid V421, implicated in slow inactivation, was not encoded in AY714490 and was absent from reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction products generated from single Purkinje cells. Next, we studied the expression of the four known mouse auxiliary CaVbeta2 isoforms in Purkinje neurones. Confirmation of the presence of CaVbeta2a in Purkinje cells, previously shown by others to slow CaV2.1 kinetics, led us to characterize its influence on current dynamics. We studied currents generated by the clone AY714490 coexpressed in tsA201 cells with four different CaVbeta subunits. In addition to the well-documented slowing of open-state inactivation kinetics, coexpression with the CaVbeta2a subunit also protected CaV2.1 channels from closed-state inactivation and prevented the channel from inactivating during physiological trains of action potential-like stimuli. This strong resistance to inactivation parallels the property of Purkinje neurone P-type currents and is suggestive of a role for CaVbeta2a in modulating the inactivation properties of P-type calcium currents in Purkinje neurones.
Using whole-cell patch-clamp recordings from spinal cord slices of young (10-15 days old) rats, we have characterized and compared the properties of inhibitory synaptic transmission in lamina II and laminae III-IV of the dorsal horn, which are involved in the processing of nociceptive and non-nociceptive sensory information, respectively. All (100%) of laminae III-IV neurons, but only 55% of lamina II neurons, received both gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA)ergic and glycinergic inputs. The remaining 45% of lamina II neurons received only GABAergic synapses. Neurons receiving only glycinergic synapses were never observed. Among the 55% of lamina II neurons receiving both GABAergic and glycinergic inputs, all displayed a small proportion (approximately 10%) of mixed miniature inhibitory postsynaptic currents (mIPSCs), indicating the presence of a functional GABA/glycine co-transmission at a subset of synapses. Such a co-transmission was never observed in laminae III-IV neurons. The presence of mixed mIPSCs and the differences in decay kinetics of GABAA-type receptor mIPSCs between lamina II and laminae III-IV were due to the endogenous tonic production of 3alpha5alpha-reduced steroids (3alpha5alpha-RS) in lamina II. Stimulation of the local production of 3alpha5alpha-RS was possible in laminae III-IV after incubation of slices with progesterone, subcutaneous injection of progesterone or induction of a peripheral inflammation. This led to the prolongation of GABAergic mIPSCs, but failed to induce the appearance of mixed mIPSCs in laminae III-IV. Our results indicate that, compared with lamina II, inhibitory synaptic transmission in laminae III-IV is characterized by a dominant role of glycinergic inhibition and the absence of a functional GABA/glycine co-transmission.
Ethanol (EtOH), the main psychoactive ingredient of alcoholic drinks, is widely considered to be responsible for alcohol abuse and alcoholism through its positive motivational properties, which depend, at least partially, on the activation of the mesolimbic dopaminergic system. However, acetaldehyde (ACD), the first metabolite of EtOH, has been classically considered to be aversive and useful in the pharmacological therapy of alcoholics. Here we show that EtOH-derived ACD is necessary for EtOH-induced place preference, a pre-clinical test with high predictive validity for reward liability. We also found that ACD is essential for EtOH-increased microdialysate dopamine (DA) levels in the rat nucleus accumbens and that this effect is mimicked by intra-ventral tegmental area (VTA) ACD administration. Furthermore, in vitro, ACD enhances VTA DA neuronal firing through action on two ionic currents: reduction of the A-type K+ current and activation of the hyperpolarization-activated inward current. EtOH-stimulating properties on DA neurons are prevented by pharmacological blockade of local catalase, the main metabolic step for biotransformation of EtOH into ACD in the central nervous system. These results provide in-vivo and in-vitro evidence for a key role of ACD in the motivational properties of EtOH and its activation of the mesolimbic DA system. Additionally, these observations suggest that ACD, by increasing VTA DA neuronal activity, would oppose its well-known peripherally originating aversive properties. Careful consideration of these findings could help in devising new effective pharmacological therapies aimed at reducing EtOH intake in alcoholics.
Contextual stimuli associated with alcohol availability can induce alcohol seeking during abstinence. Using a renewal procedure, we tested the effect of opioid receptor blockade on context-induced alcohol seeking, and its relationship to the activity of brain sites involved in learning and reward. Thirty-six male Wistar rats were trained to lever press for a 12% (w/v) alcohol solution before undergoing extinction sessions (no alcohol delivery). Half of the rats underwent training, extinction and testing in a single context with a distinct set of olfactory, visual, auditory and tactile properties [training, extinction and test in Context A (AAA)]. The other half were trained and extinguished in different contexts and returned to the training context on the test day [training, extinction and test in Contexts A, B and A, respectively (ABA)]. On the test day, the rats from each condition were pre-treated with either saline or 1 mg/kg naltrexone (s.c.) and tested for alcohol seeking. Immediately following the test session, rats were killed and their brains were analysed for c-fos mRNA expression using in-situ hybridization. Re-exposure to the alcohol-associated context (ABA) significantly increased operant behaviour on the previously active lever relative to the AAA groups and this increased responding was associated with increased c-fos mRNA expression in the basal and lateral amygdala and the CA3 subregion of the hippocampus. Naltrexone pre-treatment attenuated context-induced alcohol seeking and inhibited c-fos mRNA expression in the lateral amygdala and CA3. Our findings point to a critical role for the basolateral amygdala and dorsal hippocampus in mediating context-induced renewal of alcohol seeking and suggest that opioidergic mechanisms mediate this effect.
Daily torpor in the Djungarian hamster (Phodopus sungorus) is a precisely timed event gated by the circadian clock situated in the suprachiasmatic nuclei (SCN) of the hypothalamus. Timing-controlled hypothermia during which body temperature (Tb) decreases to approximately 15 degrees C implies temperature compensation of the circadian system. Nevertheless, it remains controversial how the molecular clockwork functions at those low Tb values and whether the torpor bout affects the circadian system. In this study, we investigated rhythmic clock and clock-related gene as well as protein expression in the SCN and pineal gland of torpid and normothermic Djungarian hamsters over a 48 h cycle. We clearly demonstrate rhythmic gene expression of Per1, Bmal1 and Avp in the SCN as well as Aa-nat in the pineal gland on a day of torpor. Alterations in the phase and amplitude of these rhythms, however, may be due to decreased protein synthesis during hypothermia. This decreased protein feedback resulting from the hypothermia might also be responsible for changes in gene expression observed 1 day after a torpor bout. We conclude that temperature has at least a modulatory effect on the circadian system.
The physiological function of dopamine is mediated through its G-protein-coupled receptor family. In Drosophila, four dopamine receptors have been molecularly characterized so far. However, due largely to the absence of a suitable preparation, the role of Drosophila dopamine receptors in modulating central synaptic transmission has not been examined. The present study investigated mechanisms by which dopamine modulates excitatory cholinergic synaptic transmission in Drosophila using primary neuronal cultures. Whole-cell recordings demonstrated that cholinergic excitatory postsynaptic currents (EPSCs) were down-regulated by focally applied dopamine (10-500 microm). The vertebrate D1 specific agonists SKF38393 and 6-chloro-APB (10 microm) mimicked dopamine-mediated suppression of cholinergic synaptic transmission with higher potency. In contrast, the D2 agonists quinpirole and bromocriptine did not alter cholinergic EPSCs, demonstrating that dopamine-mediated suppression of cholinergic synaptic transmission is specifically through activation of Drosophila D1-like receptors. Biophysical analysis of miniature EPSCs indicated that cholinergic suppression by activation of D1-like receptors is presynaptic in origin. Dopamine modulation of cholinergic transmission is not mediated through the cAMP/protein kinase A signaling pathway as cholinergic suppression by dopamine occurred in the presence of the protein kinase A inhibitor H-89. In addition, an adenylate cyclase activator, forskolin, led to an increase, not a decrease, of cholinergic EPSC frequency. Finally, we showed that activation of D1-like receptors decreased the frequency of action potentials in cultured Drosophila neurons by inhibiting excitatory cholinergic transmission. All our data demonstrated that activation of D1-like receptors in Drosophila neurons negatively modulates excitatory cholinergic synaptic transmission and thus inhibits neuronal excitability.
During the second postnatal week in rats, the hippocampus exhibits a transient period of hyperexcitability. To systematically assess the relationship between the onset and end of this period and spontaneous hippocampal activity, we used silicon depth electrodes in unanaesthetized head-fixed rats from postnatal day (P)2 to P18. At all ages, hippocampal sharp waves (SPWs) were prominent in the EEG. Beginning at P6, however, marked changes in SPWs and associated oscillations were detected. SPW-related 'gamma tails' (60-100 Hz) and 'ripples' (140-200 Hz) were first observed at P6 and P7, respectively, and both oscillations persisted up to P18. Transiently, between P6 and P11, SPW duration decreased and the occurrence of SPW doublets increased. In addition, between P8 and P11, a subset of rats exhibited 'spontaneous potentiated SPWs' characterized by double polarity reversals, enhanced likelihood of gamma tails, and population spikes. Having identified a suite of transient hippocampal features consistent with a window of increased excitability, we next assessed whether electrographic seizure activity would be most easily induced during this period. To do this, kainic acid (KA; 200 ng/infusion) was infused into the hippocampus contralateral to the recording probe. KA did not induce seizure activity until P7 and reached peak effectiveness at P9. Thereafter, sensitivity to KA declined. All together, these findings provide in vivo neurophysiological support for the notion of a developmental window of heightened seizure susceptibility during the second postnatal week, and also suggest that spontaneous nonpathological hippocampal activity can be used to mark the onset and end of this period.
The endocannabinoid system mediates analgesia expressed following exposure to conditioned or unconditioned aversive stimuli, and controls the extinction of conditioned aversive behaviour. The present study investigated the effects of administration of the cannabinoid(1) (CB(1)) receptor antagonist SR141716A into the right basolateral amygdala (BLA) on expression of conditioned fear, formalin-evoked nociceptive behaviour, fear-conditioned analgesia and associated alterations in monoamine levels in discrete rat brain areas. Re-exposure to a context previously paired with footshock significantly reduced formalin-evoked nociceptive behaviour. Intra-BLA administration of SR141716A did not attenuate fear-conditioned analgesia, but reduced formalin-evoked nociceptive behaviour and attenuated the formalin-induced decrease in freezing and 22-kHz ultrasonic vocalizations in the early part of the trial. Furthermore, intra-BLA SR141716A significantly prolonged the duration of these fear-related behaviours in fear-conditioned rats not receiving formalin. Fear-conditioned analgesia was accompanied by increased homovanillic acid (HVA) : dopamine (DA) ratio and reduced serotonin (5-HT) in the cerebellum, an effect not altered by SR141716A. SR141716A-induced analgesia was accompanied by reduced DA, increased HVA : DA ratio and reduced 5-HT levels in the cerebellum, increased hippocampal HVA levels and increased 5-hydroxyindole-3-acetic acid (5-HIAA) in the amygdaloid cortex. The SR141716A-induced prolongation of contextually induced aversive behaviour was accompanied by reduced DA and 3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid (DOPAC), levels in the hippocampus, and increased DA and 5-HIAA in the periaqueductal grey. These data suggest an important role for CB(1) receptors in the right BLA in mediating short-term extinction of conditioned aversive behaviour but not fear-conditioned analgesia. The results also enhance our understanding of endocannabinoid-monoamine interactions of relevance to conditioned fear and associated analgesia.
In order to study the function of specific neural circuits, we generated UAS-Channelrhodopsin2 (ChR2) transgenic Drosophila and established a ChR2-based system that enables specific activation of targeted neurons in larval and adult fruit flies with blue light illumination, under the control of a newly designed light source that provides fully programmable stimulation patterns. We showed that stimulating selectively the nociceptor of larvae expressing ChR2 elicited light-induced 'pain' response, confined freely behaving larvae in defined area and directed larva migration along a preset route. In freely behaving adult flies, rapid photoactivation of targeted gustatory sensory neurons, dopaminergic modulatory neurons and motor neurons triggered the proboscis extension response, escaping reflex and changes in the locomotion pattern, respectively, with precise temporal control. This non-invasive method for remote control of animal behaviors also provides a potential tool for conducting 'gain of function' studies toward understanding how animal behaviors are controlled by neural activity.
The lateral septal area is rich in vasopressin V(1A) receptors and is densely innervated by vasopressinergic axons, originating mainly from the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis and the amygdala. Genetic and behavioral studies provide evidence that activation of vasopressin receptors in this area plays a determinant role in promoting social recognition. What could be the neuronal mechanism underlying this effect? Using rat brain slices and whole-cell recordings, we found that lateral septal neurons are under the influence of a basal GABAergic inhibitory input. Vasopressin, acting via V(1A) but not V(1B) receptors, greatly enhanced this input in nearly all neurons. The peptide had no effect on miniature inhibitory postsynaptic currents, indicating that it acted on receptors located in the somatodendritic membrane, rather than on axon terminals, of GABAergic interneurons. Cell-attached recordings showed that vasopressin can cause a direct excitation of a subpopulation of lateral septal neurons by acting via V(1A) but not V(1B) receptors. The presence in the lateral septum of V(1A) but not of V(1B) receptors was confirmed by competition binding studies using light microscopic autoradiography. In conclusion, vasopressin appears to act in the lateral septum in a dual mode: (i) by causing a direct excitation of a subpopulation of neurons, and (ii) by causing an indirect inhibition of virtually all lateral septal neurons. This modulation by vasopressin of the lateral septal circuitry may be part of the neuronal mechanism by which the peptide, acting via V(1A) receptors, promotes social recognition.
Oscillatory synchronization between somatosensory and motor cortex has previously been reported using field potential recordings, but interpretation of such results can be confounded by volume conduction. We examined coherence between single-unit discharge in somatosensory/parietal areas and local field potential from the same area as the unit, or from the motor cortex, in two macaque monkeys trained to perform a finger movement task. There were clear coherence peaks at approximately 17.5 Hz for cells in the primary somatosensory cortex (both proprioceptive and cutaneous areas) and posterior parietal cortex (area 5). The size of coherence in all areas was comparable to previous reports analysing motor cortical cells and M1 field potentials. Many coherence phases clustered around -pi/2 radians, indicating zero lag synchronization of parietal cells with M1 oscillatory activity. These results indicate that cells in somatosensory and parietal areas have information about the presence of oscillations in the motor system. Such oscillatory coupling across the central sulcus may play an important role in sensorimotor integration of both proprioceptive and cutaneous signals.

The aim of this work was to study the effects of prenatal stress on nociceptive responses in the formalin test in female and male infant (7-day-old) Long-Evans hooded rats. Prenatally stressed infant rats displayed biphasic flinching+ shaking behavior whereas non-stressed animals showed only a weak second phase. Pain sensitivity in prenatally stressed males was significantly greater than that of prenatally non-stressed males during the second phase only; there were no differences in pain sensitivity between prenatally stressed and non-stressed females. Moreover prenatally stressed male rats pups demonstrated that the second phase of the response to formalin was enhanced relative to the second phase in stressed females. The current and previous data [Butkevich IP, Barr GA, Mikhailenko VA, Otellin VA. Increased formalin-induced pain and expression of fos neurons in the lumbar spinal cord of prenatally stressed infants rats. Neurosci Lett 2006a;403:222-226] show increased tonic pain in prenatally stressed infant rats and a large increase in the number of formalin-induced fos-like immunoreactivity in the spinal cord dorsal horn. There is a concomitant decrease in serotonin-like immunoreactivity in the lumbar spinal cord dorsal horn [Butkevich IP, Barr GA, Otellin VA. Effect of prenatal stress on behavioral and neural indices of formalin-induced pain in infant rats. Abstracts, 35th Annual Meeting of Soc. For Neurosci. 2005a. Program No. 512.4 Washington, DC: Society for Neuroscience]. Given the decreased level of perinatal testosterone in prenatally stressed rats to which infant males are more sensitive than females, we suggest that these hormonal, behavioral and neuronal indices are strongly interrelated in prenatally stressed 7-day-old rat pups and that the decreased surge of testosterone may contribute to the increased behavioral response in the second phase in male rat pups. Mechanisms underlying the behavioral pain response induced by inflammation in prenatally stressed rat pups are characterized by sexual dimorphism even prior to the activational effects of sex hormones.
The nucleus cuneiformis (CnF), located just ventrolateral to the periaqueductal gray, is part of the descending pain modulatory system. Neurons in the CnF project to medullary nucleus raphe magnus (NRM), which plays an important role on pain modulation. In this study, we investigated the effect of microinjection of the non-competitive NMDA receptor antagonist MK-801, the competitive NMDA receptor antagonist AP-7, and the kainate/AMPA receptor antagonist DNQX, alone or in combination with morphine into the nucleus cuneiformis on morphine-induced analgesia to understand the role of glutamatergic receptors in the modulating activity of morphine. Antinociception was assessed with the tail-flick test. Morphine (10, 20, 40 microg in 0.5 microl saline) had an antinociceptive effect, increasing tail-flick latency in a dose-dependent manner. Microinjection of MK-801 (10 microg/0.5 microl saline) and AP7 (3 microg/0.5 microl saline) prior to morphine microinjection (10 microg/0.5 microl saline) attenuated the antinociceptive effects of morphine, whereas DNQX (0.5 microg/0.5 microl saline) showed a partial antinociceptive effect and potentiated the analgesic effect of morphine. These results indicated that the NMDA receptor partially potentiates the antinociceptive effect of morphine. Our results suggest that NMDA but not non-NMDA receptors are involved in the antinociception produced by morphine in the CnF. The non-NMDA receptors in this area may have a facilitatory effect on nociceptive transmission. The fact that morphine's effect was potentiated by NMDA receptor suggests that projection neurons within the CnF are under tonic, glutamatergic input and when the influence of this input is blocked, the descending inhibitory system is inactivated.

The objective of this study was to improve upon leg somatosensory-evoked potential (SEP) monitoring that halves paraplegia risk but can be slow, miss or falsely imply motor injury and omits arm and decussation assessment. We applied four-limb transcranial muscle motor-evoked potential (MEP) and optimized peripheral/cortical SEP monitoring with decussation assessment in 206 thoracolumbar spine surgeries under propofol/opioid anesthesia. SEPs were optimized to minimal averaging time that determined feedback intervals between MEP/SEP sets. Generalized changes defined systemic alterations. Focal decrements (MEP disappearance and/or clear SEP reduction) defined neural compromise and prompted intervention. They were transient (quickly resolved) or protracted (&gt;40 min). Arm and leg MEP/SEP monitorability was 100% and 98/97% (due to neurological pathology). Decussation assessment disclosed sensorimotor non-decussation requiring ipsilateral monitoring in six scoliosis surgeries (2.9%). Feedback intervals were 1-3 min. Systemic changes never produced injury regardless of degree. They were gradual, commonly included MEP/SEP fade and sometimes required large stimulus increments to maintain MEPs or produced &gt;50% SEP reductions. Focal decrements were abrupt; their positive predictive value for injury was 100% when protracted and 13% when transient. Six transient arm decrements predicted one temporary radial nerve injury; five suggested arm neural injury prevention (2.4%). There were 15 leg decrements: six MEP-only, four MEP before SEP, three simultaneous and two SEP-only. Five were protracted, predicting four temporary cord injuries (three motor, one Brown-Sequard) and one temporary radiculopathy. Ten were transient, predicting one temporary sensory cord injury; nine suggested cord injury prevention (4.4%). Two radiculopathies and one temporary delayed paraparesis were unpredicted. The methods are reliable, provide technical/systemic control, adapt to non-decussation and improve spinal cord and arm neural protection. SEP optimization speeds feedback and MEPs should further reduce paraplegia risk. Radiculopathy and delayed paraparesis can evade prediction.
Individual nuclei of the auditory pathway contribute in a specific way to the processing of complex acoustical signals. We investigated the responses of single neurons to typical guinea pig vocalizations (purr, chutter, chirp and whistle) in the ventral part of the medial geniculate body (MGB) of anesthetized guinea pigs. The neuronal and population peristimulus time histograms (PSTHs) reflected the repetition frequency of individual phrases in the calls. The patterns of PSTHs correlated well with the sound temporal envelope in calls with short phrases (purr, chirp). The dominant onset character of the neuronal responses resulted in a lower correlation between the sound envelope and the PSTH pattern in the case of longer calls (chutter and whistle). A time-reversed version of whistle elicited on average a 13% weaker response than did the natural whistle. The rate-characteristic frequency (CF) profile provided only a coarse representation of the sound frequency spectrum without detailed information about the individual spectral peaks and their relative magnitudes. In comparison with the inferior colliculus (Suta et al. in J Neurophysiol 90:3794-3808, 2003), the processing of species-specific vocalizations in the MGB differs in: (1) a less precise representation of the temporal envelope in the case of longer calls, but not in the case of calls consisting of one or more short phrases; (2) a less precise rate-CF representation of the spectral envelope in the case of low-frequency calls, but not in the case of broad-band calls; (3) a smaller difference between the responses to natural and time-reversed whistle.
Performance on multisensory temporal order judgment (TOJ) tasks is enhanced when the sensory stimuli are presented at different locations rather than the same location. In our first experiment, we replicated this result for spatially separated stimuli within the visual modality. In Experiment 2, we investigated the effect of perceptual grouping on this spatial effect. Observers performed a visual TOJ task in which two stimuli were presented in a configuration that encouraged perceptual grouping or not (i.e., one- and two-object conditions respectively). Despite a constant spatial disparity between targets across the two conditions, a smaller just noticeable difference (i.e., better temporal resolution) was found when the two targets formed two objects than when they formed one. This effect of perceptual grouping persisted in Experiment 3 when we controlled for apparent motion by systematically varying the spatial distance between the targets. Thus, in contrast to the putative same-object advantage observed in spatial discrimination tasks, these findings indicate that perceptual grouping impairs visual temporal resolution.
Metallothionein (MT)-I/II has been shown to be neuroprotective and neuroregenerative in a model of rat cortical brain injury. Here we examine expression patterns of MT-I/II and its putative receptor megalin in rat retina. At neonatal stages, MT-I/II was present in retinal ganglion cells (RGCs) but not glial or amacrine cells; megalin was present throughout the retina. Whilst MT-I/II was absent from adult RGC in normal animals and after optic nerve transection, the constitutive megalin expression in RGCs was lost following optic nerve transection. In vitro MT-IIA treatment stimulated neuritic growth: more RGCs grew neurites longer than 25 microm (P &lt; 0.05) in dissociated retinal cultures and neurite extension increased in retinal explants (P &lt; 0.05). MT-IIA treatment of mixed retinal cultures increased megalin expression in RGCs, and pre-treating cells with anti-megalin antibodies prevented MT-IIA-stimulated neurite extension. Our results indicate that MT-IIA stimulates neurite outgrowth in RGCs and may do so via the megalin receptor; we propose that neurite extension is triggered via signal transduction pathways activated by the NPxY motifs of megalin's cytoplasmic tail.
We have found novel functions of scaffold attachment factor-B1 (SAFB) during apoptosis. The experiments showed that SAFB moved into the nucleolus 15 min after the induction of apoptosis and before the release of cytochrome c into the cytoplasm. Two hours later SAFB formed a peri-nucleolar ring-like structure and this occurred after cytochrome c release and before PARP cleavage. Digestion with RNase suggested that the peri-nucleolar ring structure was dependent on RNA integrity and a RNA moiety formed part of this structure. Studies using SAFB deletion mutants showed that the formation of the peri-nucleolar structure was not mediated by the DNA binding (SAP) or the RNA binding (RRM) domain of SAFB but was instead dependent on the S/K and R/E coiled-coil regions: a result suggesting that the structure is formed via protein interactions. In addition, SAFB cleavage was shown to be mediated by caspase-3 and occurred after the formation of the peri-nucleolar ring and after cleavage of PARP (characteristic of proteins having a direct role in apoptosis). A determinant for this cleavage is located in the DNA binding domain and we hypothesize that SAFB may direct the reorganization and segregation of nuclear RNA and DNA prior to endonuclease-mediated DNA cleavage.
In rats, phasic external urethral sphincter (EUS) activity (bursting) is postulated to be crucial for efficient voiding. This has been reported to be lost after spinal cord transection (txSCI), contributing to impaired function. However, anesthesia may confound evaluating EUS activity. We therefore evaluated urodynamic parameters in unanesthetized, restrained rats and compared the effects of txSCI to that of a clinically relevant, incomplete, contusive injury (iSCI) on lower urinary tract function. Adult female rats were subjected to txSCI or standardized iSCI at the T8 vertebral level. As expected, all injured rats were initially unable to void but developed a reflex bladder with time, with iSCI rats recovering more rapidly than txSCI rats. LUT function was evaluated urodynamically at 2 and 6 weeks after injury. In response to infusion of saline into the bladder, controls consistently exhibited coordinated contraction of the bladder and activation of the EUS in a phasic pattern and had a high voiding efficiency (86.4+/-2.5%). Voiding efficiency of iSCI rats was reduced to approximately 57% and txSCI rats to approximately 32%. However, two different patterns of EUS activity during voiding were present in both txSCI and iSCI groups at both time points: (1) rats with phasic EUS activity, similar to controls and (2) those that only exhibited tonic EUS activity during voiding. The former had more normal voiding efficiencies. Thus, phasic EUS activity and the improved voiding efficiency associated with it can occur and can be detected in unanesthetized rats after both incomplete and complete SCI.
Following facial nerve resection in the mouse, a substantial number of neurons reside in an atrophied state (characterized by cell shrinkage and decreased ability to uptake Nissl stain), which can be reversed by re-injury. The mechanisms mediating the reversal of neuronal atrophy remain unclear. Although T cells have been shown to prevent neuronal loss following peripheral nerve injury, it was unknown whether T cells play a role in mediating the reversal of axotomy-induced neuronal atrophy. Thus, we used a facial nerve re-injury model to test the hypothesis that the reversal of neuronal atrophy would be impaired in recombinase activating gene-2 knockout (RAG-2 KO) mice, which lack functional T and B cells. Measures of neuronal survival were compared in the injured facial motor nucleus (FMN) of RAG-2 KO and wild-type (WT) mice that received a resection of the right facial nerve followed by re-injury of the same nerve 10 weeks later (&quot;chronic resection+re-injury&quot;) or a resection of the right facial nerve followed by sham re-injury of the same nerve 10 weeks later (&quot;chronic resection+sham&quot;). We recently demonstrated that prior exposure to neuronal injury elicited a marked increase in T cell trafficking indicative of a T cell memory response when the contralateral FMN was injured later in adulthood. We examined if such a T cell memory response would also occur in the current re-injury model. RAG-2 KO mice showed no reversal of neuronal atrophy whereas WT mice showed a robust response. The reversal of atrophy in WT mice was not accompanied by a T cell memory response. Although the number of CD4(+) and CD8(+) T cells in the injured FMN did not differ from each other, double-negative T cells appear to be recruited in response to neuronal injury. Re-injury did not result in increased expression of MHC2 by microglia. Our findings suggest that T cells may be involved in reversing the axotomy-induced atrophy of injured neurons.
Cholinergic dysfunction has been implicated as a putative contributing factor in the pathogenesis of schizophrenia. Recently, we showed that cholinergic denervation of the neocortex in adult rats leads to a marked increase in the behavioral response to amphetamine. The main objective of this study was to investigate if the enhanced locomotor response to amphetamine seen after cortical cholinergic denervation was paralleled by an increased amphetamine-induced release of dopamine in the nucleus accumbens and/or striatum. The corticopetal cholinergic projections were lesioned by intraparenchymal infusion of 192 IgG-saporin into the nucleus basalis magnocellularis of adult rats. Amphetamine-induced dopamine release in the nucleus accumbens or striatum was monitored by in vivo microdialysis 2 to 3 weeks after lesioning. We found that cholinergic denervation of the rat neocortex leads to a significantly increased amphetamine-induced dopamine release in the nucleus accumbens. Interestingly, the cholinergic lesion did not affect amphetamine-induced release of dopamine in the striatum. The enhanced amphetamine-induced dopamine release in the nucleus accumbens in the cholinergically denervated rats could be reversed by administration of the muscarinic agonist oxotremorine, but not nicotine, prior to the amphetamine challenge, suggesting that loss of muscarinic receptor stimulation is likely to have caused the observed effect. The results suggest that abnormal responsiveness of dopamine neurons can be secondary to cortical cholinergic deficiency. This, in turn, might be of relevance for the pathophysiology of schizophrenia and provides a possible link between cholinergic disturbances and alteration of dopamine transmission.
Topiramate is one of several antiepileptic drugs that are used in the prevention of migraine, but the only one licensed for use in the UK. Topiramate has an extensive evidence base provided by double-blind, placebo-controlled trials to show that it is a safe, effective and well tolerated drug in the management of migraine. It has also been shown to have a role in the management of chronic migraine, which represents a challenge to primary care clinicians as well as headache specialists. Studies have demonstrated that topiramate can also be effective in preventing migraine in childhood and adolescence, although this is unlicensed in the UK. It has been shown in models both in the US and the UK to offer a cost benefit when direct and indirect costs are evaluated by reducing work loss, improving quality of life and reducing the use of increasingly scarce health resources.
More than 50 different neurological pathologies have a confirmed or suspected autoimmune etiology affecting an estimated number of 75 million people worldwide. Autoantibodies are a useful diagnostic marker for most autoimmune diseases even though their pathological role is not evident, and several tests for their detection are commercially available. However, for autoimmune diseases involving the nervous system, lack of clear information on the identity of antineural antibody targets and the presence of many rare diseases have hampered the development of specific diagnostic assays. This review focuses on the actual knowledge on confirmed and suspected autoimmune diseases that target the CNS and the diagnostic relevance of corresponding antineural autoantibodies.
Pain serves a crucial physiological function, warning the body of impending or actual tissue damage, preventing further damage and aiding the healing process. Neuropathic pain, resulting from nervous system injury or dysfunction, can be a serious medical problem and especially difficult to treat. Although sodium channel blockers are clinically useful for treating pain, they often provide only partial relief and adverse effects associated with nonspecific actions can limit their use. Research on the roles of sodium channels in neuronal excitability and pain shows that specific sodium channel isoforms are crucial determinants of nociception and neuropathic pain, indicating that it should be possible to develop sodium channel blockers with lower toxicity and enhanced efficacy for treating neuropathic pain.
Metabolic dysfunction is one of the early features in Alzheimer's disease (AD) affected brain. Amyloid-beta peptide (Abeta), a major peptide deposited in neuritic plaques, has been considered as an important initiating molecule in the pathogenesis of AD. However, the pathogenic role of Abeta remains to be determined. Here, we review current studies showing that progressive accumulation of Abeta occurs within the mitochondria of both transgenic mice overexpressing mutant Abeta peptide precursor protein and autopsied brains from AD patients. Interaction of Abeta with Abeta-binding alcohol dehydrogenase (ABAD), a short-chain alcohol dehydrogenase in the mitochondrial matrix, leads to mitochondrial dysfunction evidenced by increased reactive oxygen species generation, mitochondrial membrane permeability formation and caspase-3-like activity induction, and decreased activities of the Krebs cycle. These effects can be blocked by intracellular transduction of the ABAD decoy peptide. We hypothesize that Abeta-induced and mitochondria-dependent cytotoxic pathways might play an important role in AD pathogenesis and could be a potential therapeutic target.

Vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) is a major regulator of physiological and pathological angiogenesis. Recently it was reported that the delivery of VEGF using recombinant adeno-associated virus (rAAV) vectors reduces muscle damage and promotes muscle regeneration in different experimental models of muscle necrosis. We demonstrate that intramuscular administration of rAAV-VEGF improved pathophysiology of the mdx mouse, a model of Duchenne muscular dystrophy (DMD). One month after injection, rAAV-VEGF-treated muscles showed augmented expression of VEGF and immunolocalization of its receptor, VEGFR-2. VEGF-treated mdx mice showed increased forelimb strength and strength normalized to weight. Treatment reduced necrotic fibers area and increased regenerating fibers area with an augmented number of myogenin-positive satellite cells and myonuclei, and of developmental myosin heavy chain-positive fibers. Only the regenerating area showed increased capillary density. This study provides novel evidence of a VEGF beneficial effect in mdx mice that is exerted mainly by a proregenerative and angiogenic effect. It opens new therapeutic prospectives in DMD and other types of muscular disorders.
Nitrite may be a source for nitric oxide (*NO), particularly in highly acidic environments, such as the stomach. Diet products contribute also with reductants that dramatically increase the production of *NO from nitrite. Red wine has been attributed health promoting properties largely on basis of the reductive antioxidant properties of its polyphenolic fraction. We show in vitro that wine, wine anthocyanin fraction and wine catechol (caffeic acid) dose- and pH-dependently promote the formation of *NO when mixed with nitrite, as measured electrochemically. The production of *NO promoted by wine from nitrite was substantiated in vivo in healthy volunteers by measuring *NO in the air expelled from the stomach, following consumption of wine, as measured by chemiluminescence. Mechanistically, the reaction involves the univalent reduction of nitrite, as suggested by the formation of *NO and by the appearance of EPR spectra assigned to wine phenolic radicals. Ascorbic and caffeic acids cooperate in the reduction of nitrite to *NO. Moreover, reduction of nitrite is critically dependent on the phenolic structure and nitro-derivatives of phenols are also formed, as suggested by caffeic acid UV spectral modifications. The reduction of nitrite may reveal previously unrecognized physiologic effects of red wine in connection with *NO bioactivity.
The mammalian brain is characterized by orderly spatial distribution of its cellular components, commonly referred to as topographical organization. The topography of cortical and subcortical maps is thought to represent functional or computational properties. In the present investigation, we have studied map transformations and organizing principles in the projections from the cerebral cortex to the pontine nuclei, with emphasis on the mapping of the cortex as a whole onto the pontine nuclei. Following single or multiple axonal tracer injections into different cortical regions, three-dimensional (3-D) distributions of anterogradely labeled axons in the pontine nuclei were mapped. All 3-D reconstructed data sets were normalized to a standardized local coordinate system for the pontine nuclei and uploaded in a database application (FACCS, Functional Anatomy of the Cerebro-Cerebellar System, available via The Rodent Brain Workbench, http://www.rbwb.org). The database application allowed flexible use of the data in novel combinations, and use of a previously published data sets. Visualization of different combinations of data was used to explore alternative principles of organization. As a result of these analyses, a principal map of the topography of corticopontine projections was developed. This map followed the organization of early spatiotemporal gradients present in the cerebral cortex and the pontine nuclei. With the principal map for corticopontine projections, a fairly accurate prediction of pontine target area can be made for any site of origin in the cerebral cortex. The map and the underlying shared data sets represent a basis for modeling of topographical organization and structure-function relationships in this system.
We examined the spatiotemporal dynamics of word processing by recording the electrocorticogram (ECoG) from the lateral frontotemporal cortex of neurosurgical patients chronically implanted with subdural electrode grids. Subjects engaged in a target detection task where proper names served as infrequent targets embedded in a stream of task-irrelevant verbs and nonwords. Verbs described actions related to the hand (e.g, throw) or mouth (e.g., blow), while unintelligible nonwords were sounds which matched the verbs in duration, intensity, temporal modulation, and power spectrum. Complex oscillatory dynamics were observed in the delta, theta, alpha, beta, low, and high gamma (HG) bands in response to presentation of all stimulus types. HG activity (80-200 Hz) in the ECoG tracked the spatiotemporal dynamics of word processing and identified a network of cortical structures involved in early word processing. HG was used to determine the relative onset, peak, and offset times of local cortical activation during word processing. Listening to verbs compared to nonwords sequentially activates first the posterior superior temporal gyrus (post-STG), then the middle superior temporal gyrus (mid-STG), followed by the superior temporal sulcus (STS). We also observed strong phase-locking between pairs of electrodes in the theta band, with weaker phase-locking occurring in the delta, alpha, and beta frequency ranges. These results provide details on the first few hundred milliseconds of the spatiotemporal evolution of cortical activity during word processing and provide evidence consistent with the hypothesis that an oscillatory hierarchy coordinates the flow of information between distinct cortical regions during goal-directed behavior.
Episodic and spatial memories engage the hippocampus during acquisition but migrate to the cerebral cortex over time. We have recently proposed that the interplay between slow-wave (SWS) and rapid eye movement (REM) sleep propagates recent synaptic changes from the hippocampus to the cortex. To test this theory, we jointly assessed extracellular neuronal activity, local field potentials (LFP), and expression levels of plasticity-related immediate-early genes (IEG) arc and zif-268 in rats exposed to novel spatio-tactile experience. Post-experience firing rate increases were strongest in SWS and lasted much longer in the cortex (hours) than in the hippocampus (minutes). During REM sleep, firing rates showed strong temporal dependence across brain areas: cortical activation during experience predicted hippocampal activity in the first post-experience hour, while hippocampal activation during experience predicted cortical activity in the third post-experience hour. Four hours after experience, IEG expression was specifically upregulated during REM sleep in the cortex, but not in the hippocampus. Arc gene expression in the cortex was proportional to LFP amplitude in the spindle-range (10-14 Hz) but not to firing rates, as expected from signals more related to dendritic input than to somatic output. The results indicate that hippocampo-cortical activation during waking is followed by multiple waves of cortical plasticity as full sleep cycles recur. The absence of equivalent changes in the hippocampus may explain its mnemonic disengagement over time.
Energy homeostasis is a complex physiological function coordinated at multiple levels. The issue of genetic regulation of nutrition and metabolism is attracting increasing interest and new energy homeostasis-regulatory genes are continuously identified. Among these genes, vgf is gaining increasing interest following two observations: (1) VGF-/- mice have a lean and hypermetabolic phenotype; (2) the first VGF-derived peptide involved in energy homeostasis, named TLQP-21, has been identified. The aim of this review will be to discuss the role of the vgf gene and VGF derived peptides in metabolic and nutritional functions. In particular we will: (1) provide a brief overview on the central systems regulating energy homeostasis and nutrition particularly focusing on the melanocortin system; (2) introduce the structure and molecular characteristic of vgf; (3) describe the phenotype of VGF deficient mice; (4) present recent data on the metabolic role of VGF-derived peptides, particularly focusing on one peptide named TLQP-21.
The function of telomeres is twofold: to facilitate complete chromosome replication and to protect chromosome ends against fusions and illegitimate recombination. In the budding yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae, interactions among Cdc13p, Stn1p, and Ten1p are thought to be critical for promoting these processes. We have identified distinct Stn1p domains that mediate interaction with either Ten1p or Cdc13p, allowing analysis of whether the interaction between Cdc13p and Stn1p is indeed essential for telomere capping or length regulation. Consistent with the model that the Stn1p essential function is to promote telomere end protection through Cdc13p, stn1 alleles that truncate the C-terminal 123 residues fail to interact with Cdc13p and do not support viability when expressed at endogenous levels. Remarkably, more extensive deletions that remove an additional 185 C-terminal residues from Stn1p now allow cell growth at endogenous expression levels. The viability of these stn1-t alleles improves with increasing expression level, indicating that increased stn1-t dosage can compensate for the loss of Cdc13p-Stn1p interaction. However, telomere length is misregulated at all expression levels. Thus, an amino-terminal region of Stn1p is sufficient for its essential function, while a central region of Stn1p either negatively regulates the STN1 essential function or destabilizes the mutant Stn1 protein.
The solute carrier family 22 (SLC22) is a large family of organic cation and anion transporters. These are transmembrane proteins expressed predominantly in kidneys and liver and mediate the uptake and excretion of environmental toxins, endogenous substances, and drugs from the body. Through a comprehensive database search we identified six human proteins not yet cloned or annotated in the reference sequence databases. Five of these belong to the SLC22 family, SLC22A20, SLC22A23, SLC22A24, SLC22A25, and SPNS3, and the sixth gene, SVOPL, is a paralog to the synaptic vesicle protein SVOP. We identified the orthologs for these genes in mouse and rat and additional homologous proteins and performed the first phylogenetic analysis on the entire SLC22 family in human, mouse, and rat. In addition, we performed a phylogenetic analysis which showed that SVOP and SV2A-C are, in a comparison with all vertebrate proteins, most similar to the SLC22 family. Finally, we performed a tissue localization study on 15 genes on a panel of 30 rat tissues using quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction.
Mutations in the human Crumbs homologue-1 (CRB1) gene cause retinal blinding diseases, such as Leber congenital amaurosis and retinitis pigmentosa. In the previous studies we have shown that Crb1 resides in retinal Mller glia cells and that loss of Crb1 results in retinal degeneration (particularly in the inferior temporal quadrant of the mouse eye). Degeneration is increased by exposure to white light. Here, we studied the role of light and aging to gain a better understanding of the factors involved in the progress of retinal disease. Our data reveal that light is neither sufficient nor required to induce retinal disorganization and degeneration in young Crb1(-/-) mutant mice, suggesting that it rather modulates the retinal phenotype. Gene expression profiling showed that expression of five genes is altered in light-exposed Crb1(-/-) mutant retinas. Three of the five genes are involved in chromosome stabilization (Pituitary tumor transforming gene 1 or Pttg1, Establishment of cohesion 1 homolog 1 or Esco1, and a gene similar to histone H2B). In aged retinas, degeneration of photoreceptors, inner retinal neurons, and retinal pigment epithelium was practically limited to the inferior temporal quadrant. Loss of Crb1 in Mller glia cells resulted in an irregular number and size of their apical villi. We propose that Crb1 is required to regulate number and size of these Mller glia cell villi. The subsequent loss of retinal integrity resulted in neovascularization, in which blood vessels of the choroid protruded into the neural retina.
Herpes simplex virus (HSV) can enter the central nervous system and cause encephalitis (HSV-1) or meningitis (HSV-2). Microglia, the immunocompetent cells of the central nervous system, are potentially able to detect viral infections. Microglia have been shown to express the glutamate transporter GLT-1 during pathological events, leading to increased microglial glutamate uptake and glutathione synthesis. This study aims to address the role of GLT-1 and glutathione, a major antioxidant with antiviral properties, during HSV infections. Using neuron-enriched mixed primary cultures from rat, it was found that microglia have higher resistance to HSV infections than neurons or astrocytes after 24 h incubation with HSV. Purified microglia in culture were used to further address this. It was found that microglia were able to detect HSV and responded by releasing tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha) and upregulating GLT-1 after 24 h incubation with 1 PFU/cell HSV-1 or HSV-2. Furthermore, the microglial glutathione levels were not significantly diminished after 24 h. Inhibition of the microglial glutathione synthesis with 200 microM buthionine sulfoximide (BSO) led to significantly more infected cells after 24 h incubation with 1 PFU/cell HSV-1 or HSV-2. These data indicate that the higher resistance in microglia against HSV infections may be due to the expression of GLT-1, which can maintain the glutathione levels and provide a mechanism for microglial self-defense against HSV.
Primary astrocyte cultures were used to investigate the modulation of DNA repair as a tool for sensitizing astrocytes to genotoxic agents. Base excision repair (BER) is the principal mechanism by which mammalian cells repair alkylation damage to DNA and involves the processing of relatively nontoxic DNA adducts through a series of cytotoxic intermediates during the course of restoring normal DNA integrity. An adenoviral expression system was employed to target high levels of the BER pathway initiator, N-methylpurine glycosylase (MPG), to either the mitochondria or nucleus of primary astrocytes to test the hypothesis that an alteration in BER results in increased alkylation sensitivity. Increasing MPG activity significantly increased BER kinetics in both the mitochondria and nuclei. Although modulating MPG activity in mitochondria appeared to have little effect on alkylation sensitivity, increased nuclear MPG activity resulted in cell death in astrocyte cultures treated with methylnitrosourea (MNU). Caspase-3 cleavage was not detected, thus indicating that these alkylation sensitive astrocytes do not undergo a typical programmed cell death in response to MNU. Astrocytes were found to express relatively high levels of antiapoptotic Bcl-2 and Bcl-XL and very low levels of proapoptotic Bad and Bid suggesting that the mitochondrial pathway of apoptosis may be blocked making astrocytes less vulnerable to proapoptotic stimuli compared with other cell types. Consequently, this unique characteristic of astrocytes may be responsible, in part, for resistance of astrocytomas to chemotherapeutic agents.
Antiganglioside antibodies form an important component of the innate and adaptive B cell repertoire, where they provide antimicrobial activity through binding encapsulated bacterial glycans. In an aberrant role, they target peripheral nerve gangliosides to induce autoimmune nerve injury. An important characteristic of antiganglioside antibodies is their ability to selectively recognize highly defined glycan structures. Since sialylated and sulfated glycans often share lectin recognition patterns, we here explored the possibility that certain antiganglioside antibodies might also bind 3-O-sulfo-beta-D-galactosylceramide (sulfatide), an abundant constituent of plasma and peripheral nerve myelin, that could thereby influence any immunoregulatory or autoimmune properties. Out of 25 antiganglioside antibodies screened in solid phase assays, 20 also bound sulfatide (10(-5) to 10(-6) M range) in addition to their favored ganglioside glycan epitope ( approximately 10(-7) M range). Solution inhibition studies demonstrated competition between ganglioside and sulfatide, indicating close proximity or sharing of the antigen binding variable region domain. Sulfatide and 3-O-sulfo-beta-D-galactose were unique in having this property amongst a wide range of sulfated glycans screened, including 4- and 6-O-sulfo-beta-D-galactose analogues. Antiganglioside antibody binding to 3-O-sulfo-beta-D-galactose was highly dependent upon the spatial presentation of the ligand, being completely inhibited by conjugation to protein or polyacrylamide (PAA) matrices. Binding was also absent when sulfatide was incorporated into plasma membranes, including myelin, under conditions in which antibody binding to ganglioside was retained. These data demonstrate that sulfatide binding is a common property of antiganglioside antibodies that may provide functional insights into, and consequences for this component of the innate immune repertoire.


Recent neuroscientific research shows that the health of your brain isn't, as experts once thought, just the product of childhood experiences and genetics; it reflects your adult choices and experiences as well. Professors Gilkey and Kilts of Emory University's medical and business schools explain how you can strengthen your brain's anatomy, neural networks, and cognitive abilities, and prevent functions such as memory from deteriorating as you age. The brain's alertness is the result of what the authors call cognitive fitness -a state of optimized ability to reason, remember, learn, plan, and adapt. Certain attitudes, lifestyle choices, and exercises enhance cognitive fitness. Mental workouts are the key. Brain-imaging studies indicate that acquiring expertise in areas as diverse as playing a cello, juggling, speaking a foreign language, and driving a taxicab expands your neural systems and makes them more communicative. In other words, you can alter the physical makeup of your brain by learning new skills. The more cognitively fit you are, the better equipped you are to make decisions, solve problems, and deal with stress and change. Cognitive fitness will help you be more open to new ideas and alternative perspectives. It will give you the capacity to change your behavior and realize your goals. You can delay senescence for years and even enjoy a second career. Drawing from the rapidly expanding body of neuroscience research as well as from well-established research in psychology and other mental health fields, the authors have identified four steps you can take to become cognitively fit: understand how experience makes the brain grow, work hard at play, search for patterns, and seek novelty and innovation. Together these steps capture some of the key opportunities for maintaining an engaged, creative brain.
The relationship between migraine with aura and patent foramen ovale (PFO) is still debatable. We report 2 cases of migraine with aura attacks after diagnostic microbubble injection for contrast transcranial Doppler (cTCD), in subjects with large PFO. In one case MR images, including diffusion weighted imaging and apparent diffusion coefficient, performed during aura did not show any signal abnormality. Patients with migraine with aura may have an attack during cTCD, probably by a &quot;non-ischemic&quot; mechanism.



The effect of stimulus duration on absolute identification of musical pitch was measured in a single-interval 12-alternative forced-choice task. Stimuli consisted of pure tones selected randomly on each trial from a set of 60 logarithmically spaced musical note frequencies from 65.4 to 1975.5Hz (C2-B6). Stimulus durations were 5, 10, 25, 50, 100, and 1000ms. Six absolute-pitch musicians identified the pitch of pure tones without feedback, reference sounds, or practice trials. Results showed that a 5ms stimulus is sufficient for producing statistically significant above chance performance. Performance monotonically increased up to the longest duration tested (1000ms). Higher octave stimuli produced better performance, though the rate of improvement declined with increasing octave number. Normalization by the number of waveform cycles showed that 4cycles are sufficient for absolute-pitch identification. Restricting stimuli to a fixed-cycle waveform instead of a fixed-duration still produced monotonic improvements in performance as a function of stimulus octave, demonstrating that better performance at higher frequencies does not exclusively result from a larger number of waveform cycles. Several trends in the data were well predicted by an autocorrelation model of pitch extraction, though the model outperformed observed performance at short durations suggesting an inability to make optimal use of available periodicity information in very brief tones.
Autoassociative networks were proposed in the 80's as simplified models of memory function in the brain, using recurrent connectivity with Hebbian plasticity to store patterns of neural activity that can be later recalled. This type of computation has been suggested to take place in the CA3 region of the hippocampus and at several levels in the cortex. One of the weaknesses of these models is their apparent inability to store correlated patterns of activity. We show, however, that a small and biologically plausible modification in the &quot;learning rule&quot; (associating to each neuron a plasticity threshold that reflects its popularity) enables the network to handle correlations. We study the stability properties of the resulting memories (in terms of their resistance to the damage of neurons or synapses), finding a novel property of autoassociative networks: not all memories are equally robust, and the most informative are also the most sensitive to damage. We relate these results to category-specific effects in semantic memory patients, where concepts related to &quot;non-living things&quot; are usually more resistant to brain damage than those related to &quot;living things,&quot; a phenomenon suspected to be rooted in the correlation between representations of concepts in the cortex.
At the basis of neuroscience is the correlation between behavior and neural signals. This relationship is studied using a variety of techniques, including fluorescent intensity measurements of genetically encoded calcium indicators. The simple structure and conservation of some basic developmental pathways between vertebrates and Caenorhabditis elegans makes it an ideal model for studies employing this technique, but it has been difficult to apply neural stimuli in a controlled way to such a small organism. New microfabrication techniques allow the creation of &quot;worm traps&quot; via a combination of lithography and microfluidic regulation. These micro-scale devices have made possible the immobilization of nematodes in the absence of glue (which could affect the worms' neural activity), in addition to offering more control over the application and removal of stimuli than was possible in previous experimental setups. Chronis et al. link an increase in AVA (a type of motor neurons formed by bilaterally symmetric interneuron pairs) neural activity to the initiation of anterior-traveling body waves, and observed an increase in ASH (a type of sensory neurons responsible for a wide range of avoidance behaviors in response to chemical and physical stimulations) neural activity in response to stimulation by high osmotic strength solutions. The microfabrication developments described can be combined with recent advances in the biological sciences, in particular the developmental embryology, to yield solutions to important problems, such as the detection of low concentration substrates and the analysis of homeostasis and embryonic development.
Curt Richter is at the origins of psychobiology in the United States. For Richter the concept of instinct was central to his research. While he had diverse interests that traversed a great range of psychobiology, the concept of instinct was fundamental to his research on specific hungers and the regulation of the internal milieu. Debates about the concept of instinct would last the bulk of Richter's experimental career, culminating in an international conference a decade after the Second World War.
Eating and anxiety disorders are more prevalent in females, increase during adolescence, and are associated with early pubertal development. This study examined whether timing of puberty onset is associated with disordered eating and anxiety in a large sample of postpubertal male and female undergraduate students. Self-report questionnaires assessed timing of puberty, disordered eating, anxiety, alcohol use, personality, and sensation seeking. Females scored significantly higher on measures of disordered eating (binge eating, dietary restraint, eating concerns, and weight and shape concerns) and anxiety (state and trait anxiety) than did males. In addition, early maturing women and men scored significantly higher on measures of disordered eating and anxiety than on time or late maturing women and men. Measures of alcohol use, sensation seeking, and personality characteristics differed in males and females but did not vary with pubertal timing. Findings suggest that early puberty is associated with disordered eating and anxiety, and this association may be due to an organizational effect of pubertal hormones. Despite important differences in body fat composition, both males and females experiencing early puberty had an increased incidence of disordered eating. The fact that early puberty was associated with increased eating and anxiety symptoms in both sexes suggests that puberty may influence these symptoms through both biological and psychosocial mechanisms.
To avoid breeding during unsuitable environmental or physiological circumstances, the reproductive axis adjusts its output in response to fluctuating internal and external conditions. The ability of the reproductive system to alter its activity appropriately in response to these cues has been well established. However, the means by which reproductively relevant cues are interpreted, integrated and relayed to the reproductive axis remain less well specified. The neuropeptide kisspeptin has been shown to be a potent positive stimulator of the hypothalamo-pituitary-gonadal (HPG) axis, suggesting a possible neural locus for the interpretation/integration of these cues. Because a failure to inhibit reproduction during winter would be maladaptive for short-lived female rodents, female Siberian hamsters (Phodopus sungorus) housed in long and short days were examined. In long &quot;summer&quot; photoperiods, kisspeptin is highly expressed in the anteroventral periventricular nucleus (AVPV), with low expression in the arcuate nucleus (Arc). A striking reversal in this pattern is observed in animals held in short, &quot;winter&quot; photoperiods, with negligible kisspeptin expression in the AVPV and marked staining in the Arc. Although all studies to date suggest that both populations act to stimulate the reproductive axis, these contrasting expression patterns of AVPV and Arc kisspeptin point to disparate roles for these two cell populations. Additionally, we found that the stimulatory actions of exogenous kisspeptin are blocked by acyline, a gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH) receptor antagonist, suggesting an action of kisspeptin on the GnRH system rather than pituitary gonadotropes. Finally, females held in short day lengths exhibit a reduced response to exogenous kisspeptin treatment relative to long-day animals. Together, these findings indicate a role for kisspeptin in the AVPV and Arc as an upstream integration center for reproductively relevant stimuli and point to a dual mechanism of reproductive inhibition in which kisspeptin expression is reduced concomitant with reduced sensitivity of the HPG axis to this peptide.
Although studies of obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD) over the last 20 years have suggested abnormalities in frontal-subcortical circuitry, evidences of structural abnormalities in those areas are still imperfect and contradictory. With recent advances in neuroimaging technology, it is now possible to study cortical thickness based on cortical surfaces, which offers a direct quantitative index of cortical mass. Using the constrained Laplacian-based automated segmentation with proximities (CLASP) algorithm, we measured cortical thickness of 55 patients with OCD (33 men and 22 women) and 52 age- and sex-matched healthy volunteers (32 men and 20 women). We found multiple regions of cortical thinning in OCD patients compared to the normal control group. Patients with OCD had thinner left inferior frontal, left middle frontal, left precentral, left superior temporal, left parahippocampal, left orbitofrontal, and left lingual cortices. Most thinned regions were located in the left ventral cortex system, providing a new perspective that this ventral cortical system may be involved in the pathophysiology of OCD.
Hepatocyte growth factor activator inhibitor type 1 (HAI-1) is a membrane-bound serine proteinase inhibitor having two extracellular Kunitz-type proteinase inhibitor domains (KD) namely KD-1 and KD-2. It efficiently inhibits hepatocyte growth factor activator, matriptase, hepsin, prostasin and trypsin. We have previously reported that the expression of HAI-1 suppresses the in vitro invasive capability of human glioblastoma cells. In this study we examined the role of each KD in the anti-invasive effect of HAI-1. Engineered over-expression of the mature membrane-form HAI-1 suppressed in vitro fibrin gel invasion of two human glioblastoma cell lines, U251 and YKG-1. The migratory activity on type IV collagen was also suppressed by the HAI-1 expression. These effects were not affected by the deletion of intracytoplasmic domain of HAI-1. A truncated secreted form of HAI-1 also suppressed in vitro invasion of the cells, indicating that the extracellular portion of HAI-1 was responsible for the anti-invasive effect. To determine the roles of each KD in the anti-invasive effect of HAI-1 in vitro, we constructed expression plasmids for HAI-1 with or without mutation at the P1 position of the reactive site of each KD. The results revealed that the proteinase inhibitor activity of N-terminal KD (KD-1) is responsible for the anti-invasion effect of HAI-1.
Age related macular degeneration (AMD) is an extremely prevalent complex genetic disorder. Its incidence rises exponentially in the elderly to a frequency of 1 in 2 in the general population by age 85. It affects approximately 25 million people and is the commonest cause of irreversible visual loss in the Western world. It is therefore a major public health problem. However, until recently its aetiology was unknown. Our understanding of both the molecular biology of AMD and the relevant clinical treatments has progressed dramatically in the last 2 years. Two genes of large effect have been identified which together contribute to over 70% of the population attributable risk of AMD. Treatments which inhibit expression of vascular endothelial growth factor have been developed which can rescue vision in the &quot;wet&quot; form of the disease. The association of complement factor H with AMD highlights the importance of the alternative complement pathway in the development of AMD whilst the pathophysiology of the serine protease HTRA1 is now under intensive study. This review will give an insight into these developments and will summarise our current knowledge of the molecular biology of AMD.
A medline literature review of fertility and mood disorder articles published since 1980 was performed in order to critically review the literature regarding a relationship between mood disorders, fertility and infertility treatment. Previous studies suggests that mood disorders, both in the bipolar and unipolar spectrum, may be associated with decreased fertility rates. Most studies report that women seeking treatment for infertility have an increased rate of depressive symptoms and possibly major depression (none showed evaluated mood elevations). Many, but not all, studies found that depressive symptoms may decrease the success rate of fertility treatment. Treatments for infertility may independently influence mood through their effects on estrogen and progesterone, which have been shown to influence mood through their actions on serotonin. Studies are limited in scope and confounding variables are many, limiting the strength of the results. In conclusion, a range of existing studies suggests that fertility and mood disorders are related in a complex way. Future studies should use clinical interviews and standardized and validated measures to confirm the diagnosis of mood disorders and control for the variables of medication treatment, desire for children, frequency of sexual intercourse, age, FSH levels, menstrual cycle regularity in assessing an interrelationship between mood disorders and fertility.
Interactions among neural signals in different frequency bands have become a focus of strong interest in neuroscience. Bispectral analysis, a type of higher order spectral analysis, provides us with the ability to investigate such nonlinear interactions. Based on the fact that the bispectrum of a linear Gaussian process is zero, a surrogate data method was proposed to test the null hypothesis that the original data were generated by a linear Gaussian process. The method was first tested on two simulation examples. It was then applied to local field potential recordings from a monkey performing a visuomotor task. The analysis reveals nonzero bispectra for beta and gamma band activities in the premotor cortex. The rigorous statistical framework proves essential in establishing these results.
Prenatal exposure of pregnant dams to oscillating magnetic fields can cause behavioural deficits in their offspring which persist into adulthood. These changes are waveform-specific and may involve nitric oxide. To investigate the interaction between nitric oxide modulation and perinatal magnetic fields, dams were exposed from 2 days before to 14 days after birth to one of six magnetic field conditions (1, 5, 10, 50 or 500 nT or sham) and given either water, 1g/L nitric oxide precursor l-arginine or 0.5 g/L nitric oxide synthase inhibitor n-methylarginine. At weaning (22d), their offspring were placed in the open field for observation. Rats given 50 nT field or 500 nT field+water were hyperactive and showed increased rearing and bodyweight. These strong effects were attenuated or absent in groups given 50 or 500 nT field+n-methylarginine. Groups given sham field+l-arginine were behaviourally similar to animals given 50 or 500 nT field+water. Higher intensity fields showed robust behavioural and physiological effects. In general, these effects were counteracted by co-administration of nitric oxide synthase inhibitor n-methylarginine, which had little effect on its own. Shams given NO precursor l-arginine were highly similar to those given any higher intensity magnetic field. Results support a critical developmental role of NO and the involvement of NO in magnetic field effects.
The extent of catecholaminergic receptor and respective behavioral alterations associated with prenatal cocaine exposure varies according to exogenous factors such as the amount, frequency, and route of maternal exposure, as well as endogenous factors such as specific brain regions under consideration and sex of the species. The goal of the current study was to use autoradiography to delineate possible moderators of dopaminergic and adrenergic receptor expression in adult rat offspring exposed to cocaine in utero. The current study demonstrated sex-dependent D1 receptor, alpha2, and noradrenergic transporter binding alterations in prelimbic, hippocampus, and anterior cingulate regions of adult rat brains exposed to cocaine during gestational days 8-21. Of further interest was the lack of alterations in the nucleus accumbens for nearly all receptors/transporters investigated, as well as the lack of alterations in D3 receptor binding in nearly all of the regions investigated (nucleus accumbens, prelimbic region, hippocampus, and cingulate gyrus). Thus, the current investigation demonstrated persistent receptor and transporter alterations that extend well into adulthood as a result of cocaine exposure in utero. Furthermore, the demonstration that sex played a mediating role in prenatal cocaine-induced, aberrant receptor/transporter expression is of primary importance for future studies that seek to control for sex in either design or analysis.



Depression in older adults is associated with a decreased quality of life, increased physical and emotional suffering and an increased risk of death and is often associated with declining physical health. Older people with physical illness have higher rates of depression and studies have also noted the particularly high rate of co-morbidity between depressive disorder and general medical conditions. However, other studies have shown those suffering from poor physical health do not necessarily become depressed and, in particular, the goal setting style of the individual impacts on the relationship between poor physical health and depression. This study argues that those who are conditional goal setters and suffer from poorer physical health will be more prone to depression as their perceived ability to achieve their goals is negatively impacted. One hundred and eighty-seven participants were recruited for this study. The participants completed the Centre for Epidemiological Studies Depression Inventory and the physical health subscale of the SF-12 Health Survey. Participants were asked to rank their three most important goals and to give the main reason for setting each of their top three goals. The results showed that poorer physical health is associated with higher depression scores. Correlations revealed significant negative associations between physical health and depression, physical health and progress towards goal and progress towards goal and depression. A partial correlation between physical health and depression scores controlling for progress demonstrated that the relationship between physical health and depression is mediated through perceived progress. Implications for clinical practice are highlighted.










The interaural level difference (ILD) is an important cue for the localization of sound sources. Just noticeable differences (JND) in ILD were measured in 12 normal hearing subjects for uncorrelated noise bands with a bandwidth of 13 octave and a different center frequency in both ears. In one ear the center frequency was either 250, 500, 1000, or 4000 Hz. In the other ear, a frequency shift of 0, 16, 13, or 1 octave was introduced. JNDs in ILD for unshifted, uncorrelated noise bands of 13 octave width were 2.6, 2.6, 2.5, and 1.4 dB for 250, 500, 1000, and 4000 Hz, respectively. Averaged over all shifts, JNDs decreased significantly with increasing frequency. For the shifted conditions, JNDs increased significantly with increasing shift. Performance on average worsened by 0.5, 0.9, and 1.5 dB for shifts of 16, 13, and 1 octave. Though performance decreases, the just noticeable ILDs for the shifted conditions were still in a range usable for lateralization. This has implications for signal processing algorithms for bilateral bimodal hearing instruments and the fitting of bilateral cochlear implants.

This study examines the intra-individual stability of cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) biomarkers for Alzheimer's disease (AD) over 2 years in 83 patients with mild cognitive impairment (MCI) and 17 cognitively healthy control individuals. All participants underwent clinical and neuropsychological evaluation and lumbar puncture at baseline and after 2 years at a university hospital memory clinic. CSF was analyzed for total tau (T-tau), phospho-tau(181) (P-tau(181)) and amyloid-beta(1-42) (Abeta(1-42)). During the 2-year observational time, 12 MCI patients progressed to AD and 3 progressed to vascular dementia, while 68 remained stable. Baseline T-tau and P-tau(181) levels were elevated in the MCI-AD group as compared to the stable MCI patients and the control group (p&lt;0.01), while baseline Abeta(1-42) levels were lower (p&lt;0.001). Stable MCI patients were biochemically indistinguishable from controls. The biomarker levels at baseline and after 2 years showed Pearson R values between 0.81 and 0.91 (p&lt;0.001) and coefficients of variation of 7.2 to 8.7%. In conclusion, intra-individual biomarker levels are remarkably stable over 2 years. Thus, even minor biochemical changes induced by treatment against AD should be detectable using these biomarkers, which bodes well for their usefulness as surrogate markers for drug efficacy in clinical trials.
In this study we analysed the effect of Bcl-2 on the cytotoxicity induced by the amyloid-beta (Abeta(25-35)) and prion (PrP(106-126)) peptides by using GT1-7puro and GT1-7bcl-2 (overexpressing the anti-apoptotic protein Bcl-2) neural cells. Exposure to Abeta(25-35) (1-5 microM) and PrP(106-126) (25 microM) caused a decrease in cell viability, as determined by the 3-(4,5-dimethylthiazol-2-yl)-2,5-diphenyltetrazolium bromide (MTT) assay. These data were correlated with Abeta(25-35) and PrP(106-126)-induced activation of caspase-9, which is linked to the mitochondrial death pathway, and the activation of the effector caspase-3, suggesting cell death by apoptosis. Furthermore, Bcl-2 overexpression protected from loss of cell viability and caspase-9 and -3 activation induced by Abeta(25-35) and PrP(106-126), showing that Bcl-2 is neuroprotective against apoptotic cell death caused by amyloidogenic peptides.
It is known that there are sexually dimorphic differences in relative and absolute lengths of the index (2nd) and ring (4th) fingers and that the sizes of laterally-paired soft tissues (e.g. ears and fingers) show changes across the menstrual cycle. The aim of the present study was to determine whether cyclical changes in the digit lengths of the index and ring fingers also occur and, if so, to what extent these are related to changing patterns of circulating sex steroids. Digit lengths were assessed over two cycles in groups of right-handed females (19-21 years of age) who were divided on the basis of whether or not they were taking oral contraceptive pills (n = 13 and n = 6 respectively). Using callipers, finger lengths were measured on photocopy images of both hands taken at 4-day intervals for a total of 56 days. We tested the following null hypotheses: (1) digit length measurements do not exhibit fluctuations across the menstrual cycle; (2) there is no evidence of lateral asymmetry between measurements made on both hands; (3) the lengths of digits 2 and 4 do not differ in either hand. Null hypotheses were tested using Page's L trends test for related samples (cyclical fluctuations) and paired Student's t tests (left-right asymmetries and within-hand digital differences). In those not taking oral contraceptives, finger lengths and 2D:4D digit ratios fluctuated across the cycle with values tending to increase in the pre-ovulatory period and decline thereafter. Left-right asymmetries varied in a similar fashion with lengths generally being larger, and lateral asymmetries smaller, in the dominant hand. Although sample sizes were smaller, some of these patterns were retained but others were perturbed in those practising oral contraception. We conclude that finger lengths are cycle-dependent and that account should be taken of this, and of oral contraceptive usage, in future studies on female digit lengths and their ratios.
This work attempts to evaluate the cognitive aspects of the acclimatization ability of mice submitted to simulated altitude. Critical altitudes were detected by evaluating open field activity, combined or not with object recognition tasks, at different acute simulated altitudes. Results showed impaired cognitive abilities at approximately 3,733 m and above. To evaluate acclimatization capabilities, mice submitted to hypobaric hypoxia at approximately 5,000 m for 1 wk were tested for learning and memory performances with classical eyeblink conditioning at the same altitude or at land altitude. Results showed total acclimatization in mice conditioned at approximately 5,000 m but no improved performance in those conditioned at land altitudes compared with controls. Selected brain sites of conditioned animals were analyzed by immunohistochemistry to detect expression of the protein product of the protooncogene c-fos (Fos) in relation to both motor learning processes and hypobaric conditions. In the nucleus of the solitary tract, a higher expression of Fos was found in the acute hypobaric conditioned animals than in control conditioned and nonconditioned animals. Similar patterns between groups were found in the other brain areas, mainly in the piriform cortex and area 1 of the cingulate cortex and in the hippocampus. Differences between hemispheres were detected only in acute hypobaric animals. The present results show that acclimatization to high altitude prevents the impairment of classical eyeblink conditioning evoked by hypobaric hypoxic conditions but does not improve this task when acquired under land conditions, although it could diminish the activation requirements for its performance.
A fundamental challenge in neuroscience is the determination of the three-dimensional (3D) morphology of neurons in the cortex. Here we describe a semiautomated method to trace single biocytin-filled neurons using a transmitted light brightfield microscope. The method includes 3D tracing of dendritic trees and axonal arbors from image stacks of serial 100-microm-thick tangential brain sections. Key functionalities include mosaic scanning and optical sectioning, high-resolution image restoration, and fast, parallel computing for neuron tracing. The mosaic technique compensates for the limited field of view at high magnification, allowing the acquisition of high-resolution image stacks on a scale of millimeters. The image restoration by deconvolution is based on experimentally verified assumptions about the optical system. Restoration yields a significant improvement of signal-to-noise ratio and resolution of neuronal structures in the image stack. Application of local threshold and thinning filters result in a 3D graph representation of dendrites and axons in a section. The reconstructed branches are then manually edited and aligned. Branches from adjacent sections are spliced, resulting in a complete 3D reconstruction of a neuron. A comparison with 3D reconstructions from manually traced neurons shows that the semiautomated system is a fast and reliable alternative to the manual tracing systems currently available.
Until now, the imaging of elastic fibers was restricted to tissue sections using the endofluorescence properties of elastin or histological dyes. Methods to study their morphology in vivo and in situ have been lacking. We present and characterize a new application of a fluorescent dye for two-photon microscopy: sulforhodamine B (SRB), which is shown to specifically stain elastic fibers in vivo. SRB staining of elastic fibers is demonstrated to be better than using elastin endofluorescence for two-photon microscopy. Our imaging method of elastic fibers is shown to be suitable for simultaneous imaging with both other fluorescent intravital dyes and second-harmonic generation (SHG). We illustrate these findings with intravital imaging of elastic and collagen fibers in muscle epimysium and endomysium and in blood vessel walls. We expect SRB staining to become a key method to study elastic fibers in vivo.
Blood-oxygen-level-dependent contrast functional magnetic resonance imaging (BOLD-fMRI) has been used to perform functional imaging in brain disorders such as stroke and brain tumors. However, recent studies have revealed that BOLD-fMRI does not image activation areas correctly in such patients. To clarify the characteristics of the evoked cerebral blood oxygenation (CBO) changes occurring in stroke and brain tumors, we have been comparing near-infrared spectroscopy (NIRS) and BOLD-fMRI recording during functional brain activation in these patients. We review our recent studies and related functional imaging studies on the brain disorders. In the primary sensorimotor cortex (PSMC) on the nonlesion side, the motor task consistently caused a decrease of deoxyhemoglobin (deoxy-Hb) with increases of oxyhemoglobin (oxy-Hb) and total hemoglobin (t-Hb), which is consistent with the evoked CBO response observed in normal adults. BOLD-fMRI demonstrated robust activation areas on the nonlesion side. In stroke patients, severe cerebral ischemia (i.e., misery perfusion) caused an increase of deoxy-Hb during the task, associated with increases of oxy-Hb and t-Hb, in the PSMC on the lesion side. In addition, the activation volume of BOLD-fMRI was significantly reduced on the lesion side. The BOLD signal did not change in some areas of the PSMC on the lesion side, but it tended to decrease in other areas during the tasks. In brain tumors, BOLD-fMRI clearly demonstrated activation areas in the PSMC on the lesion side in patients who displayed a normal evoked CBO response. However, the activation volume on the lesion side was significantly reduced in patients who exhibited an increase of deoxy-Hb during the task. In both stroke and brain tumors, false-negative activations (i.e., marked reductions of activation volumes) in BOLD imaging were associated with increases of deoxy-Hb, which could cause a reduction in BOLD signal. BOLD-fMRI investigations of patients with brain disorders should be performed while giving consideration to atypical evoked CBO changes.
Near-infrared spectroscopy (NIRS), which was originally designed for clinical monitoring of tissue oxygenation, has been developing into a useful tool for neuroimaging studies (functional near-infrared spectroscopy). This technique, which is completely noninvasive, does not require strict motion restriction and can be used in a daily life environment. It is expected that NIRS will provide a new direction for cognitive neuroscience research, more so than other neuroimaging techniques, although several problems with NIRS remain to be explored. This review demonstrates the strengths and the advantages of NIRS, clarifies the problems, and identifies the limitations of NIRS measurements. Finally, its future prospects are described.

Osteopontin (OPN) is primarily a secreted phosphoglycoprotein found in a variety of tissues and body fluids. It has a wide range of reported functions, many of which are affected by the degree of post-translational modification (PTM) of the protein. These PTMs include phosphorylation, glycosylation, and cross-linking by transglutaminase. Here we describe the generation of unique monoclonal antibodies raised against recombinant OPN utilizing the OPN knockout mouse. The antibodies exhibit differential binding to OPN produced by different cell lines from the same species, as well to the multiple OPN forms in human urine. Most of the antibodies generated are able to recognize OPN produced by ras-transformed mouse fibroblasts, however only one antibody recognizes the more phosphorylated protein produced by the differentiating pre-osteoblast murine cell line MC3T3E1. Using a novel biopanning procedure combining T7 phage gene fragment display and protein G precipitation, we have epitope-mapped these antibodies. Several of the antibodies bind to regions of the OPN molecule that are phosphorylated, and one binds the region of OPN that is glycosylated. Using phosphorylated and non-phosphorylated peptides, we show that the binding of two antibodies to the C-terminal end of OPN is inhibited by phosphorylation of this region. In addition, these two antibodies are able to inhibit cell adhesion to recombinant and weakly modified OPN. The antibodies described herein may prove useful in determining the presence of modifications at specific sites and for identifying structural forms of OPN. Also, the sensitivity of these antibodies to PTMs suggests that caution must be taken when choosing anti-OPN monoclonal antibodies to detect this highly modified protein.
Active zones are protein-rich regions of neurons that act as sites of synaptic vesicle fusion and neurotransmitter release at the pre-synaptic terminus. Although the discovery that the receptor protein tyrosine phosphatase LAR and its cytoplasmic binding partner liprin alpha are essential for proper active zone formation is nearly a decade old, the underlying mechanisms are still poorly understood. Recent studies have identified a number of binding partners for both LAR and liprin alpha, several of which play key roles in active zone assembly. These include nidogen, dallylike and syndecan--extracellular ligands for LAR that regulate synapse morphogenesis. In addition, liprin-alpha-interacting proteins such as ERC2, RIM and the MALS/Veli-Cask-Mint1 complex cooperate to form a dense molecular scaffold at the active zone that is crucial for proper synaptic function. These studies allow us to propose testable models of LAR and liprin alpha function, and provide insights into the fundamental molecular mechanisms of synapse formation and stabilization.
Tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNFalpha) and Fas are induced after traumatic brain injury (TBI); however, their functional roles are incompletely understood. Using controlled cortical impact (CCI) and mice deficient in TNFalpha, Fas, or both (TNFalpha/Fas-/-), we hypothesized that TNFalpha and Fas receptor mediate secondary TBI in a redundant manner. Compared with wild type (WT), TNFalpha/Fas-/- mice had improved motor performance from 1 to 4 days (P&lt;0.05), improved spatial memory acquisition at 8 to 14 days (P&lt;0.05), and decreased brain lesion size at 2 and 6 weeks after CCI (P&lt;0.05). Protection in TNFalpha/Fas-/- mice from histopathological and motor deficits was reversed by reconstitution with recombinant TNFalpha before CCI, and TNFalpha-/- mice administered anti-Fas ligand antibodies had improved spatial memory acquisition versus similarly treated WT mice (P&lt;0.05). Tumor necrosis factor-alpha/Fas-/- mice had decreased the numbers of cortical cells with plasmalemma damage at 6 h (P&lt;0.05 versus WT), and reduced matrix metalloproteinase-9 activity in injured brain at 48 and 72 h after CCI. In immature mice subjected to CCI, genetic inhibition of TNFalpha and Fas conferred beneficial effects on histopathology and spatial memory acquisition in adulthood (both P&lt;0.05 versus WT), suggesting that the beneficial effects of TNFalpha/Fas inhibition may be permanent. The data suggest that redundant signaling pathways initiated by TNFalpha and Fas play pivotal roles in the pathogenesis of TBI, and that biochemical mechanisms downstream of TNFalpha/Fas may be novel therapeutic targets to limit neurological sequelae in children and adults with severe TBI.
The glutamate-glutamine shuttle requires a flux of fixed N from neurons to astrocytes. The suggestion that some or all of this N is ammonium has received support from reports that ammonium (as NH(4)(+)) rapidly enters astrocytes. Ammonium might also help control astrocyte energy metabolism by increasing lactate production. If ammonium has these functions, then its effect on brain metabolism must be rapid and reversible. To make a minimal test of this requirement, we have followed the time courses of the changes induced by a 4 min venous infusion of 1 mol/L NH(4)Cl, 2.5 mmol/kg body weight, in rat. Extracellular [NH(4)(+)] in cortex, monitored with ion-selective microelectrodes, reached a peak of approximately 0.7 mmol/L 1.65 mins after the end of the infusion, then recovered. Brain metabolites were monitored non-invasively every 4 mins by (1)H magnetic resonance spectroscopy. Lactate peak area during the 3.2 min acquisition starting at the end of the infusion was 1.84+/-0.24 times baseline (+/-s.e.m., P=0.009, n=9). Lactate increased until 13.2+/-2.1 mins after the end of the infusion and recovered halfway to baseline by 31.2 mins. Glutamate decreased by at least 7.1% (P=0.0026). Infusion of NaCl caused no change in lactate signal. Cerebral blood flow, measured by arterial magnetization labeling, more than doubled, suggesting that the lactate increase was not caused by hypoxia. At least three consecutive ammonium-induced increases in lactate signal could be evoked. The results are compatible with an intercellular trafficking/signaling function for ammonium.
Causes of intracranial calcification in children are numerous. This article describes an unusual cause of intracranial calcification and white matter changes in a child, namely, nephrogenic diabetes insipidus. A 4-year-old boy presented with history of polyuria, polydipsia, failure to thrive, and developmental delay. On examination, he had mild dysmorphic features and spastic paraparesis. Evaluation showed findings suggestive of nephrogenic diabetes insipidus. Computed tomography and magnetic resonance imaging revealed calcification and signal changes in the frontal and parietal subcortical white matter and gray white junction in the parietal and occipital lobes. The involvement of the white matter, in addition to the calcification in this disease, is stressed because it may predict the neurologic outcome.
We describe a child with bilateral anophthalmia, limb anomalies, skin lesions, cerebral malformations, epilepsy, and mental retardation. This patient, according to eponymous classification, should fit into the Anophthalmia-Waardenburg syndrome, although he also presents cutaneous and cerebral manifestations never reported in this syndrome until now. These clinical findings could be explained by the new classification of brain malformations, which takes into account the role of neural crest in Waardenburg syndrome.


Few studies have examined the presence of linguistic deficits in the preclinical phase of Alzheimer's disease (AD). A total of 19 healthy carriers of the E280A presenilin-1 gene mutation in chromosome 14 and 21 noncarrier family members from Antioquia, Colombia, were administered a neurolinguistic evaluation of lexical-semantic processes. Both groups were similar in age, educational level, and gender. Carriers scored significantly lower than noncarriers on naming of famous faces. Cognitive changes in lexical-semantic tasks can be detected before the clinical diagnosis of probable familial AD, and a neurolinguistic evaluation may be a useful tool in the early clinical diagnosis of sporadic AD as well.

We report respiratory obstruction following surgery in the sitting position with tracheal intubation and placement of a transesophageal echocardiography probe. Obstruction was due to pharyngeal oedema, which resolved with 24 hours. The mechanisms of this complication are discussed.

A briefly exposed visual stimulus may not be consciously perceived if it is preceded and followed by a dissimilar visual pattern or mask. Despite the subject's lack of awareness, prior behavioral studies have shown that such masked stimuli, nevertheless, engage domain-specific processes [Dehaene, S., Naccache, L., Cohen, L., Le Bihan, D., Mangin, J.-F., Poline, J.-B., et al. Cerebral mechanisms of word masking and unconscious repetition priming. Nature Neuroscience, 4, 752-758, 2001; Bar, M., &amp; Biederman, I. Subliminal visual priming. Psychological Science, 9, 464-469, 1998; Dehaene, S., Naccache, L., Le Clec'H, G., Koechlin, E., Mueller, M., Dehaene-Lambertz, G., et al. Imaging unconscious semantic priming. Nature, 395, 597-600, 1998; Whalen, P. J., Rauch, S. L., Etcoff, N. L., McInerney, S. C., Lee, M. B., &amp; Jenike, M. A. Masked presentations of emotional facial expressions modulate amygdala activity without explicit knowledge. Journal of Neuroscience, 18, 411-418, 1998; Marcel, A. J. Conscious and unconscious perception: Experiments on visual masking and word recognition. Cognitive Psychology, 15, 197-237, 1983]. Masking thus provides a method for identifying language processes that are preattentive and automatic. Functional magnetic resonance imaging used in concert with masking may identify brain regions engaged by these unconscious language processes. In an adaptation design, subjects viewed a continuous stream of masked words and masked nonwords while performing an unrelated detection task, in which they were asked to make a response to a visible colored nonword stimulus (i.e., ampersands in red or blue font). Most trials were masked nonwords and masked words were presented once every 12-15 sec. The task ensured participant engagement, while the masked nonword baseline controlled for perceptual and orthographic processing. Participants were nave to the purpose of the experiment and testing indicated that they did not consciously perceive either the words or nonwords. Masked words, but not masked nonwords, strongly activated left hemisphere language regions, including Broca's area, the angular gyrus, and the lateral temporal lobe. Differential activation of the posterior corpus callosum was also observed.
The goal of pattern-based classification of functional neuroimaging data is to link individual brain activation patterns to the experimental conditions experienced during the scans. These &quot;brain-reading&quot; analyses advance functional neuroimaging on three fronts. From a technical standpoint, pattern-based classifiers overcome fatal f laws in the status quo inferential and exploratory multivariate approaches by combining pattern-based analyses with a direct link to experimental variables. In theoretical terms, the results that emerge from pattern-based classifiers can offer insight into the nature of neural representations. This shifts the emphasis in functional neuroimaging studies away from localizing brain activity toward understanding how patterns of brain activity encode information. From a practical point of view, pattern-based classifiers are already well established and understood in many areas of cognitive science. These tools are familiar to many researchers and provide a quantitatively sound and qualitatively satisfying answer to most questions addressed in functional neuroimaging studies. Here, we examine the theoretical, statistical, and practical underpinnings of pattern-based classification approaches to functional neuroimaging analyses. Pattern-based classification analyses are well positioned to become the standard approach to analyzing functional neuroimaging data.
To understand the molecular basis of the specification of thalamic nuclei, we analyzed the expression patterns of various transcription factors and defined progenitor cell populations in the embryonic mouse thalamus. We show that the basic helix-loop-helix (bHLH) transcription factor Olig3 is expressed in the entire thalamic ventricular zone and the zona limitans intrathalamica (ZLI). Next, we define two distinct progenitor domains within the thalamus, which we name pTH-R and pTH-C, located caudal to the ZLI. pTH-R is immediately caudal to the ZLI and expresses Nkx2.2, Mash1, and Olig3. pTH-C is caudal to pTH-R and expresses Ngn1, Ngn2, and Olig3. Short-term lineage analysis of Olig3-, Mash1-, Ngn1-, and Ngn2-expressing progenitor cells as well as tracing the Pitx2 cell lineage suggests that pTH-C is the only major source of thalamic nuclei containing neurons that project to the cerebral cortex, whereas pTH-R and ZLI are likely to produce distinct postmitotic populations outside of the cortex-projecting part of the thalamus. To determine if pTH-C is composed of subdomains, we characterized expression of the homeodomain protein Dbx1 and the bHLH protein Olig2. We show that Dbx1 is expressed in caudodorsal-high to rostroventral-low gradient within pTH-C. Analysis of heterozygous Dbx1(nlslacZ) knockin mice demonstrated that Dbx1-expressing progenitors preferentially give rise to caudodorsal thalamic nuclei. Olig2 is expressed in an opposite gradient within pTH-C to that of Dbx1. These results establish the molecular heterogeneity within the progenitor cells of the thalamus, and suggest that such heterogeneity contributes to the specification of thalamic nuclei.
There are two modes of flight initiation in Drosophila melanogaster-escape and voluntary. Although the circuitry underlying escape is accounted for by the Giant fibre (GF) system, the system underlying voluntary flight initiation is unknown. The GF system is functionally complete before the adult fly ecloses, but immature adults initially fail to react to a stimulus known to reliably evoke escape in mature adults. This suggests that escape in early adulthood, approximately 2-h post-eclosion, is not automatically triggered by the hard-wired GF system. Indeed, we reveal that escape behaviour displays a staged emergence during the first hour post-eclosion, suggesting that the GF system is subject to declining levels of suppression. Voluntary flight initiations are not observed at all during the period when the GF system is released from its suppression, nor indeed for some time after. We addressed the question whether voluntary flight initiation requires the GF system by observing take-off in Shak-B ( 2 ) mutant flies, in which the GF system is defunct. While the escape response is severely impaired in these mutants, they displayed normal voluntary flight initiation. Thus, the escape mechanism is subject to developmental modulation following eclosion and the GF system does not underlie voluntary flight.
Research over the last 25 years has demonstrated that animals are able to organize sequences in memory and retrieve ordered sequences without language. Qualitative differences have been found between the serial organization of behavior in pigeons and monkeys. Here the authors test serial ordering abilities in ring-tailed lemurs, a strepsirrhine primate whose ancestral lineage diverged from that of monkeys, apes, and humans approximately 63 million years ago. Lemurs' accuracy and response times were similar to monkeys, thus suggesting that they may share mechanisms for serial organization that dates to a common primate ancestor.
While brain imaging in the clinical setting is largely a practice of looking at images, research neuroimaging is a quantitative and integrative enterprise. Images are run through complex batteries of processing and analysis routines to generate numeric measures of brain characteristics. Other measures potentially related to brain function - demographics, genetics, behavioral tests, neuropsychological tests - are key components of most research studies. The canonical scanner - PACS - viewing station axis used in clinical practice is therefore inadequate for supporting neuroimaging research. Here, we model the neuroimaging research enterprise as a workflow. The principal components of the workflow include data acquisition, data archiving, data processing and analysis, and data utilization. We also describe a set of open-source applications to support each step of the workflow and the transitions between these steps. These applications include DIGITAL IMAGING AND COMMUNICATIONS IN MEDICINE viewing and storage tools, the EXTENSIBLE NEUROIMAGING ARCHIVE TOOLKIT data archiving and exploration platform, and an engine for running processing/analysis pipelines. The overall picture presented is aimed to motivate open-source developers to identify key integration and communication points for interoperating with complimentary applications.
We describe a histamine-activated Cl(-) conductance in the X-organ neurons from crayfish Cherax quadricarinatus, which has comparable properties to the homomultimeric histamine-gated ion channels described in Drosophila. Topical application of histamine inhibited spontaneous neuronal firing in the X-organ sinus gland tract, concomitant with an increase in the membrane conductance. In X-organ neurons in culture and under voltage-clamp conditions, histamine evoked outward currents at -40 mV that reversed at the Cl(-) equilibrium potential. Histamine sensitivity in these neurons had a half-maximal response (EC(50))=3.3+/-1 micromol l(-1), with a Hill number of 2.6+/-0.4. The histamine-evoked current was blocked by tiotidine, cimetidine, ranitidine and 256+/-11 and 483+/-11 micromol l(-1), respectively) and d-tubocurarine (IC(50)=21+/-2 micromol l(-1)), but was insensitive to picrotoxin, bicuculline and strychnine. Neither GABA nor glutamate was capable of desensitizing the histamine response, indicating that histamine activates a particular Cl(-) conductance. The presence of immunoreactive neurons to histamine in the medulla terminalis with axonal projections to the neuropile suggests a possible histaminergic modulation of the X-organ sinus gland system.
Voltage-activated ion channels are essential for electrical signaling, yet the mechanism of voltage sensing remains under intense investigation. The voltage-sensor paddle is a crucial structural motif in voltage-activated potassium (K(v)) channels that has been proposed to move at the protein-lipid interface in response to changes in membrane voltage. Here we explore whether tarantula toxins like hanatoxin and SGTx1 inhibit K(v) channels by interacting with paddle motifs within the membrane. We find that these toxins can partition into membranes under physiologically relevant conditions, but that the toxin-membrane interaction is not sufficient to inhibit K(v) channels. From mutagenesis studies we identify regions of the toxin involved in binding to the paddle motif, and those important for interacting with membranes. Modification of membranes with sphingomyelinase D dramatically alters the stability of the toxin-channel complex, suggesting that tarantula toxins interact with paddle motifs within the membrane and that they are sensitive detectors of lipid-channel interactions.
Ongoing studies from our group support the existence and biological importance of a distinct cellular signaling pathway involving endogenously synthesized, chemically authentic, l-morphine, its cognate mu(3) opiate receptor subtype, and constitutive NO synthase. Based on prior studies indicating evolutionary conservation and adaptation of morphinergic/NO-coupled signaling to mediate autocrine/paracrine control of cellular functions, our goal was to determine whether a functionally competent mu(3) opiate receptor/NO-coupled regulatory pathway exists in human multilineage progenitor cells (MLPC) prepared from umbilical cord blood. Real-time PCR analysis indicated significant expression of mu(3) opiate receptor-encoding RNA by undifferentiated human MLPC, in the absence of traditional mu(1) opioid receptor-encoding RNA expression. Unpredictably, confirmatory RT-PCR analyses indicated cellular expression of a splice variant of the previously characterized mu(3) opiate receptor-encoding mRNA. Pharmacological analyses provided critical validating evidence of functional mu(3)-like opiate receptor/NO-coupled signaling within primary cultures of undifferentiated human MLPC via morphine-evoke real-time release of NO. Control analyses indicated that morphine-stimulated NO release was markedly inhibited by prior treatment with the opiate antagonist l-naloxone or the constitutive NO synthase inhibitor N(G)-nitro-l-arginine methyl ester and unresponsive to stimulation by the opioid peptide methionine enkephalin. Complementary microarray analysis demonstrated that traditional mu(1), delta, and kappa opioid receptor gene expression is not detected in both undifferentiated and differentiated MLPC. Chemical differentiation of MLPC into neuronal progenitor cells effected significant phenotypic expression of a variety of neurally-associated genes. Our data provide compelling evidence in support of both the evolutionary primacy and primordial regulatory role of mu(3)-like opiate receptor/NO signaling in embryogenesis.
Type I IFNs are used for treating viral, neoplastic, and inflammatory disorders. The protein products encoded by IFN-stimulated genes (ISGs) likely mediate clinical effects of IFN in patients. Macroarray assays, used for studying ISG induction in IFN-treated patients, comprise genes identified predominantly through analysis of long-term cell lines. To discover genes induced selectively by IFN-beta in PBMC, we exposed whole blood to physiological concentrations of IFN-beta. PBMC were prepared, and RNA was extracted, reverse-transcribed, and hybridized to cDNA microarrays, and microarray analysis identified 39 ISGs and 20 IFN-repressed genes (IRGs). Thirty-three ISGs were known previously, and six ISGs were novel. New ISGs included GTP cyclohydrolase 1; hypothetical protein LOC129607; hypothetical protein FLJ38348; leucine aminopeptidase 3; squalene epoxidase; and GTP-binding protein overexpressed in skeletal muscle. Twenty IRGs included IL-1beta and CXCL8, which had been identified earlier. CXCL1 was a novel IRG identified in the current study. PCR analysis demonstrated the regulation of six novel ISGs and CXCL1 as an IRG in PBMC and astrocytoma cells. Results were validated using RNA obtained ex vivo from blood of patients after injection with IFN-beta. Identification of new ISGs and IRGs in primary PBMC will enhance macroarray assays for monitoring IFN responsiveness.
To address the functions of human CXCL8 (hCXCL8)/IL-8 through hCXCR1 in vivo, we have developed a humanized, transgenic mouse for hCXCR1. This mouse line is versatile and allows for a variety of functional analyses using bioimaging, including Cre/loxP-mediated, tissue-specific hCXCR1 expression in a spatiotemporal manner; a color-switching mechanism, which uses spectrum-complementary, genetically encoded green and red fluorescence markers to label the hCXCR1-expressing cells [enhanced GFP (eGFP)] against the background [monomeric red fluorescent protein (mRFP)]; a bioluminescent marker, which is present in the hCXCR1-expressing cells; and an exogenous cell surface marker (eGFP moiety) in the hCXCR1-expressing cells, which facilitates identification, isolation, and targeting of these cells. The established, transgenic founder line RCLG3A (TG(+)) expresses only mRFP and does so ubiquitously. When the RCLG3A mice are crossed with the tamoxifen-inducible, whole-tissue Cre mice (ROSA26-Cre/Esr(+/-)), administration of tamoxifen induces whole-body hCXCR1 expression and color-switching. When RCLG3A mice are crossed with thymocyte-specific Cre mice (Lck-Cre(+/+)), the hCXCR1 expression and color-switching are restricted in a lineage-specific manner. This mouse line can be used to understand the functions of hCXCL-8 in vivo. In addition, our approach and vectors can be used to establish other tissue-specific, transgenic mice in conjunction with multifunctional cell markers, which facilitate cell imaging, tracing, and manipulation in vivo.
Progressive loss of dopaminergic neurons in the substantia nigra pars compacta and their terminal connections in the striatum are central features in Parkinson's disease (PD). Emerging evidence supports the notion that microglia neuroinflammatory responses speed neurodegenerative events. We demonstrated previously that this can be slowed by adoptive transfer of T cells from Copolymer-1-immunized mice administered to 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP) recipients. The cellular basis for this neuroprotective response was the CD4+ T cell population, suggesting involvement of CD4+CD25+ regulatory T cells (Tregs), cells known to suppress immune activation and maintain immune homeostasis and tolerance. We show for the first time that adoptive transfer of CD3-activated Tregs to MPTP-intoxicated mice provides greater than 90% protection of the nigrostriatal system. The response was dose-dependent and paralleled modulation of microglial responses and up-regulation of glial cell-derived neurotrophic factor (CDNF) and TGF-beta. Interestingly, that adoptive transfer of effector T cells showed no significant neuroprotective activities. Tregs were found to mediate neuroprotection through suppression of microglial responses to stimuli, including aggregated, nitrated alpha-synuclein. Moreover, Treg-mediated suppression was also operative following removal of Tregs from culture prior to stimulation. This neuroprotection was achieved through modulation of microglial oxidative stress and inflammation. As Tregs can be modulated in vivo, these data strongly support the use of such immunomodulatory strategies to treat PD.
At present two growth models describe successfully the distribution of size and topological complexity in populations of dendritic trees with considerable accuracy and simplicity, the BE model (Van Pelt et al. in J. Comp. Neurol. 387:325-340, 1997) and the S model (Van Pelt and Verwer in Bull. Math. Biol. 48:197-211, 1986). This paper discusses the mathematical basis of these models and analyzes quantitatively the relationship between the BE model and the S model assumed in the literature by developing a new explicit equation describing the BES model (a dendritic growth model integrating the features of both preceding models; Van Pelt et al. in J. Comp. Neurol. 387:325-340, 1997). In numerous studies it is implicitly presupposed that the S model is conditionally linked to the BE model (Granato and Van Pelt in Brain Res. Dev. Brain Res. 142:223-227, 2003; Uylings and Van Pelt in Network 13:397-414, 2002; Van Pelt, Dityatev and Uylings in J. Comp. Neurol. 387:325-340, 1997; Van Pelt and Schierwagen in Math. Biosci. 188:147-155, 2004; Van Pelt and Uylings in Network. 13:261-281, 2002; Van Pelt, Van Ooyen and Uylings in Modeling Dendritic Geometry and the Development of Nerve Connections, pp 179, 2000). In this paper we prove the non-exactness of this assumption, quantify involved errors and determine the conditions under which the BE and S models can be separately used instead of the BES model, which is more exact but considerably more difficult to apply. This study leads to a novel expression describing the BE model in an analytical closed form, much more efficient than the traditional iterative equation (Van Pelt et al. in J. Comp. Neurol. 387:325-340, 1997) in many neuronal classes. Finally we propose a new algorithm in order to obtain the values of the parameters of the BE model when this growth model is matched to experimental data, and discuss its advantages and improvements over the more commonly used procedures.

A series of novel, potent neuronal nicotinic acetylcholine receptor (nAChR) ligands derived from 3,6-diazabicyclo[3.2.0]heptane have been synthesized and evaluated for binding affinity and agonist activity at the alpha4beta2 nAChR subtype. Structure-activity relationship studies of these novel nAChR ligands focused on substitution effects on the pyridine ring, as well as stereo- and regiochemical influences of the 3,6-diazabicyclo[3.2.0]heptane core. Small 5-substituents on the pyridine ring had a modest impact on the binding affinities and functional activities. 6-Bromo, 6-chloro, and 6-methyl substituents on the pyridine ring led to increased binding affinities and improved functional activities. Most of the 6-N-pyridinyl-substituted 3,6-diazabicyclo[3.2.0]heptanes are selective for the alpha4beta2 nAChR subtype. Compounds (1R,5S)-25, (1R,5S)-55, and (1R,5S)-56 were virtually inactive as agonists at the halpha3beta4 nAChR but retained potency and efficacy at the halpha4beta2 nAChR subtype. 3-N-Pyridinyl-substituted series demonstrated more complex SAR. (1R,5R)-39, (1R,5R)-41, and (1R,5R)-42 were found to be much more potent at the halpha3beta4 nAChR subtype, whereas (1R,5R)-38 and (1R,5R)-40 were very selective at the halpha4beta2 nAChR subtype. The SAR studies of these novel ligands led to the discovery of several compounds with interesting in vitro pharmacological profiles.
A new structural series of histamine H3 receptor antagonist was developed. The new compounds are based on a quinoline core, appended with a required basic aminoethyl moiety, and with potency- and property-modulating heterocyclic substituents. The analogs have nanomolar and subnanomolar potency for the rat and human H3R in various in vitro assays, including radioligand competition binding as well as functional tests of H3 receptor-mediated calcium mobilization and GTPgammaS binding. The compounds possessed favorable drug-like properties, such as good PK, CNS penetration, and moderate protein binding across species. Several compounds were found to be efficacious in animal behavioral models of cognition and attention. Further studies on the pharmaceutic properties of this series of quinolines discovered a potential problem with photochemical instability, an issue which contributed to the discontinuation of this series from further development.
Armed conflicts and violations of human rights have a large and long-lasting impact on the mental health of affected individuals. In Tajikistan's civil war, 1992-1997, out of a total population of 6.5 million, about 60,000 were killed and 700,000 became refugees. Little has been done to explore the mental health consequences of this war. The purpose of the present pilot study was to validate 1 screening instrument for PTSD and 1 for depression and anxiety symptoms in a Tajik outpatient population. The sample for the study totaled 75. The appropriate cutoff values were determined empirically. The validity of the instruments was high. In conclusion, the use of validated screening instruments was a feasible way to explore the prevalence of PTSD, depression, and other anxiety symptoms in a Tajikistan context.
Understanding the rich complement of sugar chains found in cellular membranes is impeded by the complexity of cell types and membrane diversity. To overcome this, we have analyzed the N-linked sugar chain composition of the glycoproteins of CNS myelin, an elaboration of the plasma membranes of oligodendrocytes (OLs) that result in a multilamellar wrapping of neuronal axons, facilitating nerve conduction with dramatic savings of space and energy. Due to an usually high lipid to protein ratio, myelin can be separated readily from other heavier membranes on sucrose gradients and further fractionated into subdomains related to myelin structure and function, including compact myelin and myelin-associated axolemmal membrane (Menon et al. 2003). We analyzed these fractions for N-linked sugar chains, using 2D HPLC following hydrazinolysis and pyridylamination. Our results indicate that compared with total brain homogenate, the amount of N-glycans is 1.3-fold higher in the myelin-associated axolemmal membranes, but it is 0.5-fold less in CM. M5 [Manalpha1-3((Manalpha1-3)(Manalpha1-6)Manalpha1-6)Manbeta1-4GlcNAcbeta1-4GlcNAc] is the most abundant sugar chain in total brain homogenate, compact myelin, and myelin-associated axolemma, constituting approximately 20% of sugar chains. Although the types of sugar chains are similar among the fractions, their expression levels vary significantly. In addition to high mannose type oligosaccharides, the core fucosylated, biantennary N-glycans with bisecting N-acetylglucosamine (GlcNAc) residue, A2G1(3)FB [Galbeta1-4GlcNAcbeta1-2Manalpha1-3(GlcNAcbeta1-2Manalpha1-6)(GlcNAcbeta1-4)Manbeta1-4GlcNAcbeta1-4(Fucalpha1-6)GlcNAc], A2G1(6)FB [GlcNAcbeta1-2Manalpha1-3(Galbeta1-4GlcNAcbeta1-2Manalpha1-6)(GlcNAcbeta1-4)Manbeta1-4GlcNAcbeta1-4 (Fucalpha1-6)GlcNAc] and BA-1 [Manalpha1-3(GlcNAcbeta1-2Manalpha1-6)(GlcNAcbeta1-4)Manbeta1-4GlcNAcbeta1-4(Fucalpha1-6)GlcNAc], and A1(6)G0F [Manalpha1-3(GlcNAcbeta1-2Manalpha1-6)Manbeta1-4GlcNAcbeta1-4(Fucalpha1-6) GlcNAc] are also present in relatively large proportions in compact myelin. We suggest that these differences may be related to myelin-axolemmal function.
Immune responses directed towards gangliosides and their microbial mimics are important mediators of several subtypes of acute post-infectious autoimmune neuropathy, collectively referred to as the Guillain-Barr syndromes. In this diverse group of paralytic syndromes, the immunopathology is in a proportion of cases characterised by anti-ganglioside antibody deposits, accompanied by inflammatory destruction of both axonal and glial components within the PNS. By gaining an understanding of the immunological mechanisms underlying these pathological pathways, it should be possible to select the correct targets for therapeutic intervention. Recent years has seen particular progress in our understanding of the basis for, and immunological consequences of molecular mimicry between gangliosides and microbial glycans, the relationships between ganglioside antibody specificity and different clinical phenotypes of GBS, the pathological basis for antibody-mediated nerve injury and the testing of intervention strategies in pre-clinical models. The focus of this mini-review is to provide a brief background to this field, summarise a selection of recent highlights focused on our own research, identify areas of outstanding knowledge and present data that supports novel therapeutic approaches based on the latest experimental findings.
Glycosphingolipids (GSLs) and glycoproteins are ubiquitous components of mammalian cell membranes. GSLs are especially enriched in the nervous system and significantly contribute to membrane organization and a variety of cellular functions. Current body of evidence suggests that GSLs along with cholesterol are enriched in discrete membrane domains that associate specific proteins. Current notion of membrane organization is that, the GSL-cholesterol-enriched membrane domains known as 'lipid rafts' float in the phospholipid-enriched bulk of the membrane and regulate the cell signaling by facilitating the lipid-protein/protein-protein interactions. The sizeable literature accumulated during the last decade has provided some insight into the organization and function of rafts; however, they still remain perplexing. In recent years, an appealing concept of lipid raft heterogeneity has emerged. GSL- and glycosylphosphatidylinositol-anchored proteins are considered as the crucial pivots of heterogeneous rafts. This review deals with the enigma of organizational and functional heterogeneity of lipid rafts and discusses the dynamic coalescence of heterogeneous rafts during signaling that can explain the specificity of raft-regulated cellular signaling events.
The inner membrane of the nuclear envelope (NE) of neurons and other cells has been shown to contain GM1 tightly associated with a Na(+)/Ca(2+) exchanger (NCX) whose activity it potentiates in mediating transfer of Ca(2+) from nucleoplasm to the NE lumen. This is consistent with localization of the NCX/GM1 complex in the inner membrane of the NE. NCXs of the plasma membrane, in contrast, appear to bind GM1 much less avidly. This is believed due to different isoforms of NCX in the two membranes, and a difference in topology of NCX relative to GM1. A cytoprotective function for nuclear NCX/GM1 was suggested in the observation that cultured neurons from mice lacking GM1 (GM2/GD2 synthase knockout) were vulnerable to Ca(2+)-induced apoptosis. These neurons in culture were rescued to some extent by GM1 but more effectively by LIGA-20, a membrane-permeant derivative of GM1 that entered the NE. Further indication came from a study of the mutant mice, which were highly susceptible to kainate-induced seizures and could be rescued by LIGA-20. This correlated with the ability of LIGA-20 to cross the blood-brain barrier, enter brain cells, insert into the NE, and potentiate nuclear NCX.
The adrenal chromaffin cells synthesize and release catecholamine (mostly epinephrine and norepinephrine) and different peptides, such as the neuropeptide Y (NPY). NPY stimulates catecholamine release through NPY Y1 receptor in mouse chromaffin cells. The aim of our study was to determine the intracellular signaling events coupled to NPY Y1 receptor activation that lead to stimulation of catecholamine release from mouse chromaffin cells. The stimulatory effect of NPY mediated by NPY Y1 receptor activation was lost in the absence of extracellular Ca2+. On the other hand, inhibition of nitric oxide synthase and guanylyl cyclase also decreased the stimulatory effect of NPY. Moreover, catecholamine release stimulated by NPY or by the nitric oxide donor (NOC-18) was inhibited by mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) and protein kinase C inhibitors. In summary, in mouse chromaffin cells, NPY evokes catecholamine release by the activation the NPY Y1 receptor, in a Ca2+-dependent manner, by activating mitogen-activated protein kinase and promoting nitric oxide production, which in turn regulates protein kinase C and guanylyl cyclase activation.
A combinatorial library of undecapeptides was produced and utilized for the isolation of peptide binding to the fibronectin type 3 modules (F3I-F3II) of the neural cell adhesion molecule (NCAM). The isolated peptides were sequenced and produced as dendrimers. Two of the peptides (denoted ENFIN2 and ENFIN11) were confirmed to bind to F3I-F3II of NCAM by surface plasmon resonance. The peptides induced neurite outgrowth in primary cerebellar neurons and PC12E2 cells, but had no apparent neuroprotective properties. NCAM is known to activate different intracellular pathways, including signaling through the fibroblast growth factor receptor, the Src-related non-receptor tyrosine kinase Fyn, and heterotrimeric G-proteins. Interestingly, neurite outgrowth stimulated by ENFIN2 and ENFIN11 was independent of signaling through fibroblast growth factor receptor and Fyn, but could be inhibited with pertussis toxin, an inhibitor of certain heterotrimeric G-proteins. Neurite outgrowth induced by trans-homophilic NCAM was unaffected by the peptides, whereas knockdown of NCAM completely abrogated ENFIN2- and ENFIN11-induced neuritogenesis. These observations suggest that ENFIN2 and ENFIN11 induce neurite outgrowth in an NCAM-dependent manner through G-protein-coupled signal transduction pathways. Thus, ENFIN2 and ENFIN11 may be valuable for exploring this particular type of NCAM-mediated signaling.
The olfactory bulb (OB) contains the highest concentration of the insulin receptor (IR) kinase in the central nervous system; however, its functional role and modulation in this region remains poorly understood. IR kinase contains a number of proline-rich motifs, making it an excellent candidate for modulation by SH(3) domain-containing adaptor proteins. Kv1.3, a voltage-gated Shaker potassium channel and tyrosine phosphorylation substrate of IR kinase, contains several proline-rich sequences and a canonical post-synaptic density 95 (PSD-95)/discs large/zO-1 domain (PDZ) recognition motif common to most Shaker family members. We sought to determine if a functional relationship existed between Kv1.3, IR kinase, and the SH(3)/PDZ adaptor protein PSD-95. Through patch-clamp electrophysiology, immunochemistry, and co-immunoprecipitation, we found that while Kv1.3 and PSD-95 alone interact via the canonical C-terminal PDZ recognition motif of the channel, this molecular site of interaction acts to cluster the channels but the PSD-95 SH(3)-guanylate kinase domain functionally modulates Kv1.3 activity via two proline-rich domains in its N- and C-terminal. Therefore, these data suggest that adaptor domains responsible for ion-channel clustering and functional modulation are not necessarily coupled. Moreover, IR kinase and Kv1.3 can only be co-immunoprecipitated in the presence of PSD-95 as the adapting linker. Functionally, insulin-dependent Kv1.3 phosphorylation that causes channel current suppression is blocked via interaction with the PSD-95 SH(3)-guanylate kinase domain. Because all the three proteins co-localize in multiple lamina of the OB that are known to be rich in synaptic connections, membrane excitability and synaptic transmission at critical locations in the OB have the capacity to be finely regulated.
Tryptophan hydroxylase (TPH) is the initial and rate-limiting enzyme in the biosynthesis of serotonin. TPH was once thought to be a single-gene product but it is now known to exist in two isoforms. TPH1 is found in the periphery and pineal gland whereas TPH2 is expressed specifically in the CNS. Both TPH isoforms are known to be regulated by protein kinase-dependent phosphorylation and the sites of modification of TPH1 by protein kinase A have been identified. While TPH2 is activated by calcium, calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II (CaMKII), the sites at which this isoform is modified are not known. Treatment of wild-type TPH2 with CaMKII followed by mass spectrometry analysis revealed that the enzyme was activated and phosphorylated at a single site, serine-19. Mutagenesis of serine-19 to alanine did not alter the catalytic function of TPH2 but this mutant enzyme was neither activated nor phosphorylated by CaMKII. A phosphopeptide bracketing phosphoserine-19 in TPH2 was used as an antigen to generate polyclonal antibodies against phosphoserine-19. The antibodies are highly specific for phosphoserine-19 in TPH2. The antibodies do not react with wild-type TPH2 or TPH1 and they do not recognize phophoserine-58 or phosphoserine-260 in TPH1. These results establish that activation of TPH2 by CaMKII is mediated by phosphorylation of serine-19 within the regulatory domain of the enzyme. Production of a specific antibody against the CaMKII phosphorylation site in TPH2 represents a valuable tool to advance the study of the mechanisms regulating the function of this important enzyme.
We evaluated a role for the nuclear factor-kappa B (NF-kappaB) pathway in the regulation of seizure susceptibility and transcriptional activation during prolonged, continuous seizures (status epilepticus). Using two functionally distinct NF-kappaB inhibitors we observed a decrease in latency to onset of kainate-induced seizures and status epilepticus. To assess NF-kappaB transcriptional activation, we evaluated inhibitor kappa B alpha (IkappaBalpha) and brain-derived neurotrophic factor (bdnf) gene targets. Inhibition of the NF-kappaB signaling pathway significantly attenuated the increases in IkappaBalpha and bdnf mRNA levels that occurred during prolonged seizure activity, suggesting that the NF-kappaB pathway was involved in the up-regulation of these transcripts during status epilepticus. DNA-binding studies and chromatin immunoprecipitation assays using hippocampal extracts from animals with status epilepticus revealed that NF-kappaB subunits were associated with the candidate kappaB-binding elements within promoter 1 of the bdnf gene. The pattern of association was different for the p50 and p65 subunits supporting complex NF-kappaB modifications within promoter 1. In summary, our findings provide additional insights into the role of NF-kappaB transcriptional regulation in hippocampus following status epilepticus and suggest that NF-kappaB pathway activation contributes to seizure susceptibility.
Formyl peptide-receptor like-1 (FPRL-1) may possess critical roles in Alzheimer's diseases, chemotaxis and release of neurotoxins, possibly through its regulation of nuclear factor-kappaB (NFkappaB). Here we illustrate that activation of FPRL-1 in human U87 astrocytoma or Chinese hamster ovary cells stably expressing the receptor resulted in the phosphorylations of inhibitor-kappaB kinase (IKK), an onset kinase for NFkappaB signaling cascade. FPRL-1 selective hexapeptide Trp-Lys-Tyr-Met-Val-Met (WKYMVM) promoted IKK phosphorylations in time- and dose-dependent manners while pre-treatment of pertussis toxin abrogated the Galpha(i/o)-dependent stimulations. The FPRL-1-mediated IKK phosphorylation required extracellular signal-regulated protein kinase (ERK), phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase and cellular Src (c-Src), but not c-Jun N-terminal kinase and p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase. Despite its ability to mobilize Ca(2+), WKYMVM did not require Ca(2+) for the modulation of IKK phosphorylation. Activation of FPRL-1 also induced NFkappaB-driven luciferase expression. Interestingly, cholesterol depletion from plasma membrane by methyl-beta-cyclodextrin abolished the FPRL-1-stimulated IKK phosphorylation, denoting the important role of lipid raft integrity in the FPRL-1 to IKK signaling. Furthermore, we demonstrated that in U87 cells, several signaling intermediates in the FPRL-1-IKK pathway including Galpha(i2), c-Src and ERK were constitutively localized at the raft microdomains. WKYMVM administration not only resulted in higher amount of ERK recruitment to the raft region, but also specifically stimulated raft-associated c-Src and ERK phosphorylations. Taken together, these results demonstrate that FPRL-1 is capable of activating NFkappaB signaling through IKK phosphorylation and this may serve as a useful therapeutical target for FPRL-1-related diseases.
Evidence suggests that increased glutamatergic input to the substantia nigra pars compacta as a result of hyperactivity of subthalalmic nucleus output pathways may contribute to the progressive degeneration of nigral dopaminergic neurones in Parkinson's disease (PD), a debilitating neurodegenerative disorder which affects approximately 1% of people aged over 65. Substantial electrophysiological evidence suggests that the excitation of nigral dopaminergic neurones is regulated by the activation of Group I metabotropic glutamate receptors (mGluR), comprising mGluR1 and mGluR5 subtypes. As activation of these receptors by endogenous glutamate may promote multiple cascades leading to excitotoxic neuronal death, it may be hypothesised that functional antagonism of Group I mGluR should be neuroprotective and could form the basis of a novel neuroprotective treatment for PD. To investigate this hypothesis, the neuroprotective potential of the selective competitive mGlu1 antagonist (+)-2-methyl-4-carboxyphenylglycine ((S)-(+)-alpha-amino-4-carboxy-2-methlybenzeneacetic acid; LY367385) and the selective allosteric mGlu5 antagonist 2-methyl-6-(phenylethynyl)-pyridine (MPEP) was tested in a rodent 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA) model of PD in vivo. Both acute and subchronic intranigral administration of either LY367385 or MPEP resulted in significant neuroprotection of nigral tyrosine hydroxylase immunoreactive cell bodies, which correlated closely with prevention of striatal monoamine depletion following 6-OHDA lesioning. This neuroprotective action of LY367385 and MPEP displayed a clear concentration-dependent effect, suggesting a receptor-mediated mechanism of action. LY367385 produced robust neuroprotection at all concentrations tested (40, 200 and 1000 nmol in 4 microL), whilst MPEP displayed a bell-shaped neuroprotective profile with significant neuroprotection at low concentrations (2 and 10 nmol in 4 microL) but not at higher concentrations (50 nmol). Importantly, subchronic intranigral administration of MPEP and LY367385 appeared to slow the degeneration of remaining nigral dopaminergic neurones and prevented further striatal dopamine depletion in animals with established 6-OHDA induced nigrostriatal lesions, suggesting that these compounds may significantly influence disease progression in this model.
Phosphatidylserine (PS), which is synthesized in mammalian tissues by the exchange between free serine and the nitrogen bases present in membrane glycerophospholipids, is strictly required for protein kinase C (PKC) activity. PKC, as other molecules involved in signal transduction, is present in lipid rafts, considered as a platform for molecular signaling. Membrane microdomains enriched in components of rafts can be isolated on the basis of their insolubility in Triton X-100 at 4 degrees C and their low density in sucrose density gradient. This study demonstrates the existence of serine base exchange enzyme (SBEE) in Triton-insoluble floating fractions containing associated PKC. Using two fractions of detergent-resistant membranes from rat cerebellum, we observed a correlation between the level of SBEE activity and that of membrane-associated PKC. This suggests that SBEE, synthesizing PS in the binding area for PKC, participates to signal transduction. The capability of SBEE to utilize not only serine but also ethanolamine, as free exchanging base, suggests a mechanism for modulating in loco PS concentration.
Collapsin response mediator protein 2 (CRMP2) is an abundant brain-enriched protein that can regulate microtubule assembly in neurons. This function of CRMP2 is regulated by phosphorylation by glycogen synthase kinase 3 (GSK3) and cyclin-dependent kinase 5 (Cdk5). Here, using novel phosphospecific antibodies, we demonstrate that phosphorylation of CRMP2 at Ser522 (Cdk5-mediated) is increased in Alzheimer's disease (AD) brain, while CRMP2 expression and phosphorylation of the closely related isoform CRMP4 are not altered. In addition, CRMP2 phosphorylation at the Cdk5 and GSK3 sites is increased in cortex and hippocampus of the triple transgenic mouse [presenilin-1 (PS1)(M146V)KI; Thy1.2-amyloid precursor protein (APP)(swe); Thy1.2tau(P301L)] that develops AD-like plaques and tangles, as well as the double (PS1(M146V)KI; Thy1.2-APP(swe)) transgenic mouse. The hyperphosphorylation is similar in magnitude to that in human AD and is evident by 2 months of age, ahead of plaque or tangle formation. Meanwhile, there is no change in CRMP2 phosphorylation in two other transgenic mouse lines that display elevated amyloid beta peptide levels (Tg2576 and APP/amyloid beta-binding alcohol dehydrogenase). Similarly, CRMP2 phosphorylation is normal in hippocampus and cortex of Tau(P301L) mice that develop tangles but not plaques. These observations implicate hyperphosphorylation of CRMP2 as an early event in the development of AD and suggest that it can be induced by a severe APP over-expression and/or processing defect.
Repeated cocaine administration induces behavioral sensitization and modifications in the phosphorylation pattern of dopamine and cAMP-regulated phosphoprotein of Mr 32,000 (DARPP-32), characterized by a tonic increase in the Thr75 phosphorylated form, and a decrease in the Thr34 phosphorylated form. This study further investigated the correlations between cocaine sensitization and modifications in the DARPP-32 phosphorylation pattern, cAMP-dependent protein kinase (PKA) activity, and mGluR5 tone in the medial prefrontal cortex and nucleus accumbens. Behavioral sensitization and modifications in these neurochemical markers followed a similar temporal pattern. Moreover, in sensitized rats acute cocaine administration modified phosphorylation levels of Thr75- and Thr34-DARPP-32, GluR1, and NR1 subunits in the nucleus accumbens only at a dose double the efficacious dose in control rats. These results suggest that the high levels of phospho-Thr75 DARPP-32 maintain PKA in a prevalent inhibited state. Furthermore, in sensitized rats the acute administration of 6-methyl-2-(phenylethynyl)-pyridine, a mGluR5 antagonist, reinstated the phosphorylation levels of Thr75- and Thr34-DARPP-32, GluR1, and NR1 to control values, and a subsequent cocaine challenge did not elicit a sensitized response. These data suggest that a tonic increase in mGluR5 transmission in cocaine-sensitized rats sustains both the increase in phospho-Thr75 DARPP-32 levels and the expression of behavioral sensitization.
To identify the transductional mechanisms responsible for the neuroprotective effect of nitric oxide (NO) during ischemic preconditioning (IPC), we investigated the effects of this gaseous mediator on mitochondrial Mn-superoxide dismutase (Mn-SOD) expression and activity. In addition, the possible involvement of Ras/extracellular-regulated kinase (ERK) ERK1/2 pathway in preserving cortical neurons exposed to oxygen and glucose deprivation (OGD) followed by reoxygenation was also examined. Ischemic preconditioning was obtained by exposing neurons to a 30-min sublethal OGD (95% N(2) and 5% CO(2)). Then, after a 24-h interval, neurons were exposed to 3 h of OGD followed by 24 h of reoxygenation (OGD/Rx). Our results revealed that IPC reduced cytochrome c (cyt c) release into the cytosol, improved mitochondrial function, and decreased free radical production. Moreover, it induced an increase in nNOS expression and NO production and promoted ERK1/2 activation. These effects were paralleled by an increase in Mn-SOD expression and activity that persisted throughout the following OGD phase. When the neurons were treated with L-NAME, a well known NOS inhibitor, the increase in Mn-SOD expression occurring during IPC was reduced and, as a result, IPC-induced neuroprotection was prevented. Similarly, when ERK1/2 was inhibited by its selective inhibitor PD98059, the increase in Mn-SOD expression observed during IPC was almost completely abolished. As a result, its neuroprotective effect on cellular survival was thwarted. The present findings indicate that during IPC the increase in Mn-SOD expression and activity are paralleled by NO production. This suggests that NO neuroprotective role occurs through the stimulation of Mn-SOD expression and activity. In particular, NO via Ras activation stimulates downstream ERK1/2 cascade. This pathway, in turn, post-transcriptionally activates Mn-SOD expression and activity, thus promoting neuroprotection during preconditioning.
We used the microdialysis technique to compare basal extracellular serotonin (5-HT) and the response to citalopram in different strains of mice with functionally different allelic forms of tryptophan hydroxylase-2 (TPH-2), the rate-limiting enzyme in brain 5-HT synthesis. DBA/2J, DBA/2N and BALB/c mice carrying the 1473G allele of TPH-2 had less dialysate 5-HT in the medial prefrontal cortex and dorsal hippocampus (DH) (20-40% reduction) than C57BL/6J and C57BL/6N mice carrying the 1473C allele. Extracellular 5-HT estimated by the zero-net flux method confirmed the result of conventional microdialysis. Citalopram, 1.25, 5 and 20 mg/kg, dose-dependently raised extracellular 5-HT in the medial prefrontal cortex of C57BL/6J mice, with maximum effect at 5 mg/kg, but had significantly less effect in DBA/2J and BALB/c mice and in the DH of DBA/2J mice. A tryptophan (TRP) load enhanced basal extracellular 5-HT in the medial prefrontal cortex of DBA/2J mice but did not affect citalopram's ability to raise cortical and hippocampal extracellular 5-HT. The impairment of 5-HT synthesis quite likely accounts for the reduction of basal 5-HT and the citalopram-induced rise in mice carrying the mutated enzyme. These findings might explain why DBA/2 and BALB/c mice do not respond to citalopram in the forced swimming test. Although TRP could be a useful strategy to improve the antidepressant effect of citalopram (Cervo et al. 2005), particularly in subjects with low 5-HT synthesis, the contribution of serotonergic and non-serotonergic mechanisms to TRP's effect remains to be elucidated.
Striatal nitric oxide (NO) signaling plays a critical role in modulating neural processing and motor behavior. Nitrergic interneurons receive synaptic inputs from corticostriatal neurons and are activated via ionotropic glutamate receptor stimulation. However, the afferent regulation of NO signaling is poorly characterized. The role of frontal cortical afferents in regulating NO transmission was assessed in anesthetized rats using amperometric microsensor measurements of NO efflux and local field potential recordings. Low frequency (3 Hz) electrical stimulation of the ipsilateral cortex did not consistently evoke detectable changes in striatal NO efflux. In contrast, train stimulation (30 Hz) of frontal cortical afferents facilitated NO efflux in a stimulus intensity-dependent manner. Nitric oxide efflux evoked by train stimulation was transient, reproducible over time, and attenuated by systemic administration of either the NMDA receptor antagonist MK-801 or the neuronal NO synthase inhibitors 7-nitroindazole and NG-propyl-L-arginine. The interaction between NO efflux evoked via train stimulation and local striatal neuron activity was assessed using dual microsensor and local field potential recordings carried out concurrently in the contralateral and ipsilateral striatum, respectively. Systemic administration of the non-specific NO synthase inhibitor methylene blue attenuated both evoked NO efflux and the peak oscillation frequency (within the delta band) of local field potentials recorded immediately after train stimulation. Taken together, these observations indicate that feed-forward activation of neuronal NO signaling by phasic activation of frontal cortical afferents facilitates the synchronization of glutamate driven oscillations in striatal neurons. Thus, NO signaling may act to amplify coherent corticostriatal transmission and synchronize striatal output.
The hypothalamic-neurohypophyseal system (HNS) mediates neuroendocrine responses to dehydration through the actions of the antidiuretic hormone vasopressin (VP) and the natriuetic peptide oxytocin (OT). VP and OT are synthesised as separate prepropeptide precursors in the cell bodies of magnocellular neurones in the hypothalamic supraoptic nucleus (SON) and paraventricular nucleus, the axons of which innervate the posterior pituitary gland (PP). Dehydration evokes a massive release of both peptides into the circulation, and this is accompanied by a function-related remodelling of the HNS. Microarray studies on mRNAs differentially expressed in the SON revealed that transcripts encoding the Ywhag and Ywhaz isoforms of the 14-3-3 family of regulatory proteins, are increased in the rat SON by 3 days of water deprivation; findings that we have confirmed by the real-time polymerase chain reaction. Because there is no necessary proportionality between transcript and protein abundance, we next examined Ywhag and Ywhaz translation products throughout the HNS in parallel with 14-3-3 post-translational modification, which is known to be an important determinant of functional activity. Both proteins are robustly expressed in the SON in VP- and OT-containing neurones, but the abundance of neither changes with dehydration. However, the total level of Ywhaz protein is increased in the neurointermediate lobe of the pituitary (NIL, which includes the PP), in parallel with a basic post-translationally modified isoform, suggesting transport from the cell bodies of the SON of newly-synthesised protein and changes in its activity. The level of an acidic, probably phosphorylated, Ywhag isoform is down-regulated in the SON by dehydration, although total levels are unchanged. Finally, based on the presence of a phosphorylated 14-3-3 binding motif, we have identified a 14-3-3 binding partner, proteasome subunit, beta type 7, in the NIL. Thus, we suggest that, through complex transcriptional, and post-translational processes, 14-3-3 proteins are involved in the regulation or mediation of HNS plasticity following dehydration.
The activity of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis is characterised both by an ultradian pulsatile pattern of glucocorticoid secretion and an endogenous diurnal rhythm. Glucocorticoid feedback plays a major role in regulating HPA axis activity and this mechanism occurs via two different receptors: mineralocorticoid (MR) and glucocorticoid receptors (GR). In the present study, the effects of both acute and subchronic treatment with the GR antagonist Org 34850 on basal and stress-induced HPA axis activity in male rats were evaluated. To investigate the effect of Org 34850 on basal diurnal corticosterone rhythm over the 24-h cycle, an automated blood sampling system collected samples every 10 min. Acute injection of Org 34850 (10 mg/kg, s.c.) did not affect basal or stress-induced corticosterone secretion, but was able to antagonise the inhibitory effect of the glucocorticoid agonist methylprednisolone on stress-induced corticosterone secretion. However, 5 days of treatment with Org 34850 (10 mg/kg, s.c., two times a day), compared to rats treated with vehicle (5% mulgofen in 0.9% saline, 1 ml/kg, s.c.), increased corticosterone secretion over the 24-h cycle and resulted in changes in the pulsatile pattern of hormone release, but had no significant effect on adrenocorticotrophic hormone secretion or on stress-induced corticosterone secretion. Subchronic treatment with Org 34850 did not alter GR mRNA expression in the hippocampus, paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus or anterior-pituitary, or MR mRNA expression in the hippocampus. Our data suggest that a prolonged blockade of GRs is required to increase basal HPA axis activity. The changes observed here with ORG 34850 are consistent with inhibition of GR-mediated negative feedback of the HPA axis. In light of the evidence showing an involvement of dysfunctional HPA axis in the pathophysiology of depression, Org 34850 could be a potential treatment for mood disorders.
Although it is well established that gonadotrophin-releasing hormone (GnRH) neurones and astrocytes maintain an intimate contact throughout development and adult life, the cell-surface molecules that may contribute to this adhesiveness remain largely unknown. In the peripheral nervous system, the glycosylphosphatidyl inositol (GPI)-anchored protein contactin is a cell-surface neuronal protein required for axonal-glial adhesiveness. A glial transmembrane protein recognised by neuronal contactin is receptor-like protein tyrosine phosphatase beta (RPTP beta), a phosphatase with structural similarities to cell adhesion molecules. In the present study, we show that contactin, and its preferred in cis partner Caspr1, are expressed in GnRH neurones. We also show that the RPTP beta mRNA predominantly expressed in hypothalamic astrocytes encodes an RPTP beta isoform (short RPTP beta) that uses its carbonic anhydrase (CAH) extracellular subdomain to interact with neuronal contactin. Immunoreactive contactin is most abundant in GnRH nerve terminals projecting to both the organum vasculosum of the lamina terminalis and median eminence, implying GnRH axons as an important site of contactin-dependent cell adhesiveness. GT1-7 immortalised GnRH neurones adhere to the CAH domain of RPTPbeta, and this adhesiveness is blocked when contactin GPI anchoring is disrupted or contactin binding capacity is immunoneutralised, suggesting that astrocytic RPTP beta interacts with neuronal contactin to mediate glial-GnRH neurone adhesiveness. Because the abundance of short RPTP beta mRNA increases in the female mouse hypothalamus (but not in the cerebral cortex) before puberty, it appears that an increased interaction between GnRH axons and astrocytes mediated by RPTP beta-contactin is a dynamic mechanism of neurone-glia communication during female sexual development.
Invariant NKT (iNKT) cells are a unique subset of lymphocytes that recognize glycolipid antigens presented by a monomorphic glycoprotein CD1d. Numerous works have shown that iNKT cells may serve as regulatory cells in autoimmune diseases including multiple sclerosis (MS). However, recent studies have revealed that the presence of iNKT cells accelerates some inflammatory conditions, implying that their protective role against autoimmunity is not predetermined. Here we review recent information concerning the mechanism of how iNKT cells intervene or promote autoimmune inflammation. Although iNKT cells are thought to be specific for a limited set of glycolipids, they may cross-react to self and non-self ligands. Regarding the response to non-self, it is now known that iNKT cells produce enormous amounts of proinflammatory cytokines during the course of infectious diseases, which is triggered by TCR ligation by microbial lipids, cytokines produced from APCs or both. Whereas the strongly activated iNKT cells play a beneficial role in combating environmental pathogens, they could play a deleterious role in autoimmunity by producing disease-promoting cytokines. However, iNKT cells in the steady state would retain an ability to produce anti-inflammatory cytokines, which is needed for terminating the ongoing inflammation. Though an initial trigger for their regulatory responses remains elusive, our recent work indicates that iNKT cells may start regulating inflammation after sensing the presence of IL-2 in addition to recognizing a ubiquitous endogenous ligand. Understanding of how iNKT cells regulate autoimmunity should lead to a more sophisticated strategy for controlling autoimmune diseases.
Nitric oxide (NO) is a key messenger involved in physiological functions including endothelium-dependent vascular relaxation, inhibition of platelet adhesion and aggregation and regulation of inflammatory and immune responses. Here we briefly introduce NO and its functions and then describe our work over the past several years examining the role of NO in EAE in both the rat and the mouse. We show that NO plays a significant role in determining the resistance or susceptibility to EAE in various strains and or sexes of animals. We demonstrate that NO down-regulates several aspects of CNS inflammation but also has a dual role in that it is required for inflammation in some situations.


We evaluated the effectiveness of vibrotactile feedback to enhance protective stepping with a view to developing a prosthesis for patients with balance disorders. Subjects standing on a moving walkway were exposed to an unpredictable, abrupt backwards translation of the support surface that required a step response to remain standing. The subjects were 15 normal young, 15 normal elderly and 9 patients with either bilateral vestibular loss or peripheral neuropathy. The initial passive displacement of the body was recorded by a gyroscope placed on the leg which triggered a vibration pulse to the trigeminal distribution on the forehead to cue a forwards step. Stepping responses and postural sway, with and without vibration feedback, were compared. Vibration produced significantly shorter stepping reaction times only in the elderly normals with naturally slower stepping. Patients did not benefit in any way. We conclude that the effectiveness of vibration biofeedback appears limited. Any enhancement of compensatory stepping might be triggered by speeding the decision to step rather than by creating a specific stimulus-response loop.

Giant axonal neuropathy (GAN; MIM 256850) is a severe childhood onset autosomal recessive sensorimotor neuropathy affecting both the peripheral nerves and the central nervous system. Bomont and colleagues identified a novel ubiquitously expressed gene they named Gigaxonin on chromosome 16q24 as the cause of GAN in a number of families. We analysed five families with GAN for mutations in the Gigaxonin gene and mutations were found in four families; three families had homozygous mutations, one had two compound heterozygous mutations and one family had no mutation identified. All families had the typical clinical features, kinky hair and nerve biopsy. We report some unusual clinical features associated with GAN and Gigaxonin mutations as well as confirm the heterogeneity in GAN and the identification of two families with manifesting carriers.

Impaired transduction of transforming growth factor-beta signaling has recently been implicated in Alzheimer disease. Transforming growth factor-beta signals are transduced by Smads, which are phosphorylated and translocated to the nucleus, where they initiate gene transcription. In Alzheimer disease, neurofibrillary tangles sequester phosphorylated Smad 2/3 (pSmad2/3) and reduce its nuclear translocation. We have now investigated the relationship between pSmad2/3 and phospho-tau in 3 other tauopathies, Pick disease, progressive supranuclear palsy, and corticobasal degeneration, and in 2 alpha-synucleinopathies, dementia with Lewy bodies and multiple system atrophy. In Pick disease, progressive supranuclear palsy, and corticobasal degeneration, pSmad2/3 was demonstrated in neuronal and glial nuclei but also colocalized with cytoplasmic tau inclusions. No pSmad2/3 was detected in glial cytoplasmic inclusions in multiple system atrophy or in Lewy bodies in dementia with Lewy bodies. Our data indicate that phospho-tau but not alpha-synuclein cytoplasmic inclusions bind pSmad2/3. The preservation of neuronal nuclear pSmad2/3 in Pick disease, progressive supranuclear palsy, and corticobasal degeneration suggests that cytoplasmic sequestration of pSmad2/3 is likely to have less impact on transforming growth factor-beta signal transduction in these diseases than in Alzheimer disease.
Several forms of log-term synaptic plasticity have been identified and the mechanisms for induction and expression of synaptic modifications change over development and maturation. The present study examines age-related changes in the induction of group I metabotropic receptor selective agonist (R,S)-3,5-dihydroxyphenylglycine (DHPG) induced long-term synaptic depression (DHPG-LTD) at CA3-CA1 synapses. The results demonstrate that the magnitude of DHPG-LTD is enhanced in male aged Fischer 344 rats compared with young adults. The role of mGluR1 in the induction of DHPG-LTD was increased with advanced age and, in contrast to young adults, induction involved a significant contribution of NMDA receptors and L-type Ca(2+) channels. Moreover, the protein tyrosine phosphatase inhibitor sodium orthovanadate significantly attenuated DHPG-LTD only in young adults. The expression of DHPG-LTD in aged animals was dependent on protein synthesis and the enhanced expression was associated with an increase in paired-pulse facilitation. The results provide evidence that DHPG-LTD is one of the few forms of synaptic plasticity that increases with advanced age and suggest that DHPG-LTD may contribute to age-related changes in hippocampal function.
Neuronal plasticity has been traditionally associated with learning and memory processes in the hippocampal regions of the brain. It is now generally accepted that plasticity phenomena are also associated with other kinds of cellular changes and modifications occurring in all areas of the CNS after injury or intense neuronal activity. For instance, spinal cord injuries have been associated with a series of cellular modifications and adaptations taking place distally in sublesional areas. Some of these modifications include changes in the expression of immediate early genes (e.g., c-fos and nor-1), TNF-alpha, preprodynorphin, neurotrophic factors (e.g., BDNF and NT-3), and several subtypes of transmembranal receptors (e.g., 5-HT(1A) and 5-HT(2A)). This review constitutes an update of the current knowledge regarding this broadly defined plasticity phenomenon that occurs spontaneously or can be modulated by training in sublesional segments of the spinal cord. Spinal cord plasticity is an increasingly popular field of research, believed by many as being a complex phenomenon that may contribute to the development of innovative therapeutics and rehabilitative approaches for spinal cord injured patients.
In layer 2/3 of neocortex, brief trains of action potentials in pyramidal neurons (PNs) induce the mobilization of endogenous cannabinoids (eCBs), resulting in a depression of GABA release from the terminals of inhibitory interneurons (INs). This depolarization-induced suppression of inhibition (DSI) is mediated by activation of the type 1 cannabinoid receptor (CB1) on presynaptic terminals of a subset of INs. However, it is not clear whether CB1 receptors are also expressed at synapses between INs, and whether INs can release eCBs in response to depolarization. In the present studies, brain slices containing somatosensory cortex were prepared from 14- to 21-day-old CD-1 mice. Whole cell recordings were obtained from layer 2/3 PNs and from INs classified as regular spiking nonpyramidal, irregular spiking, or fast spiking. For all three classes of INs, the cannabinoid agonist WIN55,212-2 suppressed inhibitory synaptic activity, similar to the effect seen in PNs. In addition, trains of action potentials in PNs resulted in significant DSI. In INs, however, DSI was not seen in any cell type, even with prolonged high-frequency spike trains that produced calcium increases comparable to that seen with DSI induction in PNs. In addition, blocking eCB reuptake with AM404, which enhanced DSI in PNs, failed to unmask any DSI in INs. Thus the lack of DSI in INs does not appear to be due to an insufficient increase in intracellular calcium or enhanced reuptake. These results suggest that layer 2/3 INs receive CB1-expressing inhibitory inputs, but that eCBs are not released by these INs.
Primary sensory cortical areas are characterized by orderly and largely independent representations of several receptive field properties. This is expressed in multiple, spatially overlaying parameter distributions, such as orientation preference, spatial frequency, and ocular dominance maps in the primary visual cortex. In the auditory cortex, two main and presumably independent representational parameters are the center frequency and the frequency extent of spectral tuning curves. Here we demonstrate interactions between cortical tonotopic gradient and spectral bandwidth modules in cat primary auditory cortex (AI). First, the spatial representation of spectral integration is not equally expressed across the whole frequency range in AI. Narrow-bandwidth modules are found only in the mid-frequency region (5-20 kHz). Thus spectral integration properties delineate three frequency regions (&lt;5, 5-20, and &gt;20 kHz) in cat AI. Second, the extent of spectral integration covaries with the local tonotopic gradient in the low- and mid-frequency ranges. Regions with a shallow frequency gradient tend to have narrower spectral integration than those with a steep gradient. These relationships between spectral selectivity and frequency gradient constrain forebrain models of thalamo- and corticocortical convergence and connectivity and may reflect the processing of behaviorally relevant stimulus constellations.
Olfactory information is processed by a diverse group of interconnected forebrain regions. Most efforts to define the cellular mechanisms involved in processing olfactory information have been focused on understanding the function of the olfactory bulb, the primary second-order olfactory region, and its principal target, the piriform cortex. However, the olfactory bulb also projects to other targets, including the rarely studied olfactory tubercle, a ventral brain region recently implicated in regulating cocaine-related reward behavior. We used whole cell patch-clamp recordings from rat tubercle slices to define the intrinsic properties of neurons in the dense and multiform cell layers. We find three common firing modes of tubercle neurons: regular-spiking, intermittent-discharging, and bursting. Regular-spiking neurons are typically spiny-dense-cell-layer cells with pyramidal-shaped, dendritic arborizations. Intermittently discharging and bursting neurons comprise the majority of the deeper multiform layer and share a common morphology: multipolar, sparsely spiny cells. Rather than generating all-or-none stereotyped discharges, as observed in many brain areas, bursting cells in the tubercle generate depolarizing plateau potentials that trigger graded but time-limited discharges. We find two distinct subclasses of bursting cells that respond similarly to step stimuli but differ in the role transmembrane Ca currents play in their intrinsic behavior. Calcium currents amplify depolarizing inputs and enhance excitability in regenerative bursting cells, whereas the primary action of Ca in nonregenerative bursting tubercle neurons appears to be to decrease excitability by triggering Ca-activated K currents. Nonregenerative bursting cells exhibit a prolonged refractory period after even short discharges suggesting that they may function to detect transient events.
Visuomotor coordination requires both the accurate alignment of spatial information from different sensory streams and the ability to convert these sensory signals into accurate motor commands. Both of these processes are highly plastic, as illustrated by the rapid adaptation of goal-directed movements following exposure to shifted visual feedback. Although visual-shift adaptation is a widely used model of sensorimotor learning, the multifaceted adaptive response is typically poorly quantified. We present an approach to quantitatively characterizing both sensory and task-dependent components of adaptation. Sensory aftereffects are quantified with &quot;alignment tests&quot; that provide a localized, two-dimensional measure of sensory recalibration. These sensory effects obey a precise form of &quot;additivity,&quot; in which the shift in sensory alignment between vision and the right hand is equal to the vector sum of the shifts between vision and the left hand and between the right and left hands. This additivity holds at the exposure location and at a second generalization location. These results support a component transformation model of sensory coordination, in which eye-hand and hand-hand alignment relies on a sequence of shared sensory transformations. We also ask how these sensory effects compare with the aftereffects measured in target reaching and tracking tasks. We find that the aftereffect depends on both the task performed during feedback-shift exposure and on the testing task. The results suggest the presence of both a general sensory recalibration and task-dependent sensorimotor effect. The task-dependent effect is observed in highly stereotyped reaching movements, but not in the more variable tracking task.
We investigated the different contribution of the corpus callosum (CC) and cerebellum to motor control in two macaque monkeys trained to perform a precision grip task with one or both hands. Recordings were made from antidromically identified CC cells and nearby unidentified neurons (UIDs) in the hand representation of the supplementary motor area (SMA) and compared with cells from the deep cerebellar nuclei (DCN). All cells showed their greatest modulation in activity (rate change locked to particular task event) during the movement epochs of the task (CC, 21.3 +/- 22.2; UIDs, 36.2 +/- 30.1 spike/s for contralateral trials; DCN, 63 +/- 56.4 for ipsilateral trials; mean +/- SD). Surprisingly, CC cells fired at very low basal rates compared with UIDs (3.9 +/- 4.9 vs. 10 +/- 9.1 spike/s) or DCN neurons (50.8 +/- 23.8 spike/s). However, SMA cells had the greatest rate modulation to baseline ratio (CC: 12.1 +/- 13.7; UID: 5.3 +/- 5.4; DCN: 1.7 +/- 2.0). This would allow them to code the timing of a behavioral event with better fidelity than DCN cells. A multivariate regression analysis between cell firing and EMG measured cells' representation of moment-by-moment modulations in muscle activity. CC neurons coded these real-time behavioral parameters significantly less well than the other cells types, using both linear and nonlinear models. Basal firing rate substantially constrains cell function. CC cells with low basal rates have restricted dynamic range for coding continuous parameters, but efficiently code the time of discrete behavioral events. DCN neurons with higher basal rates are better suited to control continuously variable parameters of movement.
Blocking the small-conductance (SK) calcium-activated potassium channel promotes burst firing in dopamine neurons both in vivo and in vitro. In vitro, the bursting is unusual in that spiking persists during the hyperpolarized trough and frequently terminates by depolarization block during the plateau. We focus on the underlying plateau potential oscillation generated in the presence of both apamin and TTX, so that action potentials are not considered. We find that although the plateau potentials are mediated by a voltage-gated Ca(2+) current, they do not depend on the accumulation of cytosolic Ca(2+), then use a computational model to test the hypothesis that the slowly voltage-activated ether-a-go-go-related gene (ERG) potassium current repolarizes the plateaus. The model, which includes a material balance on calcium, is able to reproduce the time course of both membrane potential and somatic calcium concentration, and can also mimic the induction of plateau potentials by the calcium chelator BAPTA. The principle of separation of timescales was used to gain insight into the mechanisms of oscillation and its modulation using nullclines in the phase space. The model predicts that the plateau will be elongated and ultimately result in a persistent depolarization as the ERG current is reduced. This study suggests that the ERG current may play a role in burst termination and the relief of depolarization block in vivo.
High-order statistics of neural responses allow one to gain insight into neural function that may not be evident from firing rate alone. In this study, we compared the precision, reliability, and information content of spike trains from X- and Y-cells in the lateral geniculate nucleus (LGN) and layer IV simple cells of area 17 in the cat. To a stochastic, contrast-modulated Gabor patch, layer IV simple cells responded as precisely as their primary inputs, LGN X-cells, but less reliably. LGN Y-cells were more precise and reliable than LGN X-cells. Also, within each LGN cell type, 1) responses to the same stimulus were nearly identical if they shared the same center sign and 2) responses of neurons with the same center sign were nearly identical to the responses of neurons of opposite center sign if the stimulus' contrasts were inverted. These results suggest simple cells receive highly precise and synchronous LGN input, resulting in precise responses. Nonetheless, the response precision of simple cells was greater than expected. Finally, information-theoretic calculations of our cell responses revealed that 1) LGN X-cells encoded information at half the rate of LGN Y-cells but 2.5 times the rate of layer IV simple cells; 2) LGN cells encoded information in their responses using temporal patterns, whereas simple cells did not; and 3) simple cells used more of their information capacity than LGN X-cells. We propose mechanisms that simple cells might use to ensure high precision.

Viral vector-mediated overexpression of neurotrophins in cells constituting the neural scar may represent a powerful approach to rendering scar tissue of a central nervous system (CNS) lesion permissive for neuronal regrowth. In this study a lentiviral vector encoding green fluorescent protein (LV-GFP) was injected in and around the neural scar 2 weeks after a dorsal column lesion in the rat spinal cord in order to analyze transduction characteristics of the neural scar after 4, 7, and 14 days. GFP expression was found at all points after injection and increased from 4 to 7 days, with no apparent difference observed between 7 and 14 days. The core of the lesion was virtually devoid of GFP signal despite direct vector injections in this area. The colocalization of GFP with specific cell markers (GFAP, vimentin, Raldh2, NeuN, OX-42, ED-1, and NG-2) indicated that the predominant cells transduced in the rim of the lesion were astrocytes, with neurons, microglia, oligodendrocyte precursors, and macrophages transduced to a lesser extent. None of the Raldh2-positive meningeal cells, present in the core of the scar, expressed GFP. In vitro meningeal cells were readily transduced, indicating that in vivo the formation of an extracellular matrix might prevent LV particles from transducing cells in the core of the scar. Because astrocytes are important cellular constituents of the glial scar after CNS injury, transduction of astrocytes with LV vectors encoding neurotrophic factors like BDNF or NT-3 may be used to enhance regeneration of severed axonal tracts through or along boundaries of a CNS lesion.
This investigation analyzes the effect of an acute hypoxic treatment on the level of four (alpha(1), alpha(2), beta(2), and gamma(2)) subunit mRNAs of the GABA(A) receptor in layer &quot;i&quot; of the developing chick optic tectum. Our results show that 1 hr of normobaric acute hypoxia significantly changes the subunit mRNA levels. Different subunit mRNAs display different sensitivity to hypoxia: alpha(1), beta(2), and gamma(2) mRNAs are highly sensitive, whereas alpha(2) mRNA is almost not affected. The sensitivity of the mRNA levels to hypoxia is stage dependent. The mean percentages of variation produced by the hypoxia in the level of expression of the four subunits were 20% at ED12, 5% at ED16, and only 2% at ED18. These changes in the mean percentages of expression modify the probability of coexpression. In the case of double mRNA combinations, the hypoxia produced a mean variation in the probability of coexpression of 37% at ED12, 8% at ED16, and only 4% at ED18. With regard to the triple subunit mRNAs combinations, the variations were 206% at ED12, 11% at ED16, and only 7% at ED18. The quadruple combination values were 1,500% at ED12, 21% at ED16, and only 11% at ED18. This study demonstrates that the subunit mRNA levels are highly sensitive during the early stages, suggesting that GABA(A) receptor composition might undergo environment-dependent plastic changes providing a high degree of plasticity to the GABA neurotransmitter system development.
The recent discovery of TPH-2, a new isoform of tryptophan hydroxylase, the enzyme that catalyses the transformation of tryptophan into 5-hydroxytryptophan and the rate-limiting step in brain serotonin (5-HT) biosynthesis, has boosted new interest in the many functions of 5-HT in the brain and non-nervous tissues. Recent studies on TPH-2 are reviewed with particular attention to the role of this enzyme in behavior and in response to drugs as assessed by comparing strains of mice carrying a functional polymorphism of TPH-2. Most studies concur to indicate that 5-HT synthesis through TPH-2 influence nervous tissues whereas TPH-1 is responsible for the synthesis and action of 5-HT in peripheral organs. Partial impairment of brain 5-HT synthesis caused by polymorphism of the gene encoding TPH-2 causes reduced release of the neurotransmitter, increased aggressiveness, and alters the response to drugs inhibiting the reuptake of 5-HT. Strain comparison might be a useful strategy to investigate the genotype-dependent alterations of TPH-2.


Cerebellar granule neurons (CGNs) extrasynaptically express GABA(A) receptors containing alpha(6)beta(x)delta subunits, which mediate tonic inhibitory currents. Although it has been shown that the function of these receptors is potently and directly enhanced by ethanol, this finding has not been reproducible across different laboratories. In outbred Sprague-Dawley rats, a naturally occurring arginine (R) to glutamine (Q) mutation in position 100 of the alpha(6) subunit was reported to increase the ethanol sensitivity of these receptors. However, we did not detect an action of this mutation in selectively bred rats (alcohol-tolerant and alcohol-nontolerant). Consequently, we reexamined the effect of the mutation on ethanol sensitivity in Sprague-Dawley rats. Using patch-clamp electrophysiological techniques in cerebellar vermis parasagittal slices, we found that 25 mM ethanol increases the tonic current amplitude, tonic current noise, and spontaneous inhibitory postsynaptic current (sIPSC) frequency to a similar extent in alpha(6)-100R/100R and alpha(6)-100Q/100Q CGNs. Exposure to 80 mM ethanol increased the tonic current amplitude to a significantly greater extent in alpha(6)-100R/100R than in alpha(6)-100Q/100Q CGNs; however, the effects of 80 mM ethanol on the tonic current noise and sIPSC frequency were not significantly different between these groups. In the presence of tetrodo-toxin, a non-N-methyl-d-aspartate receptor antagonist, exogenous GABA, and a GABA transporter inhibitor, neither 8 nor 40 mM ethanol consistently affected tonic current amplitude or noise in alpha(6)-100R/100R or alpha(6)-100Q/100Q CGNs. Thus, the alpha(6)-R100Q GABA(A) receptor subunit polymorphism does not in-crease the acute ethanol sensitivity of extrasynaptic receptors, lending further support to the hypothesis that ethanol modulates these currents indirectly via a presynaptic mechanism.
Berberine [Natural Yellow 18, 5,6-dihydro-9,10-dimethoxybenzo(g)-1,3-benzodioxolo(5,6-a)quinolizinium] is an alkaloid present in plant extracts and has a history of use in traditional Chinese and Native American medicine. Because of its ability to arrest the cell cycle and cause apoptosis of several malignant cell lines, it has received attention as a potential anticancer therapeutic agent. Previous studies suggest that mitochondria may be an important target of berberine, but relatively little is known about the extent or molecular mechanisms of berberine-mitochondrial interactions. The objective of the present work was to investigate the interaction of berberine with mitochondria, both in situ and in isolated mitochondrial fractions. The data show that berberine is selectively accumulated by mitochondria, which is accompanied by arrest of cell proliferation, mitochondrial fragmentation and depolarization, oxidative stress, and a decrease in ATP levels. Electron microscopy of berberine-treated cells shows a reduction in mitochondria-like structures, accompanied by a decrease in mitochondrial DNA copy number. Isolated mitochondrial fractions treated with berberine had slower mitochondrial respiration, especially when complex I substrates were used, and increased complex I-dependent oxidative stress. It is also demonstrated for the first time that berberine stimulates the mitochondrial permeability transition. Direct effects on ATPase activity were not detected. The present work demonstrates a number of previously unknown alterations of mitochondrial physiology induced by berberine, a potential chemotherapeutic agent, although it also suggests that high doses of berberine should not be used without a proper toxicology assessment.
Regulator of G-protein signaling (RGS) 4 negatively modulates signaling of several Galpha(q)-coupled receptors, including metabotropic glutamate receptor (mGluR) subtype 5 in neuronal and non-neuronal cell lines. In the brain, both RGS4 and mGluR5 receptors are enriched in the striatum, and their functions have been linked to psychostimulant-induced behavior and synaptic plasticity. However, it is not known whether RGS4 and mGluR5 interactions occur in rat striatum and whether chronic amphetamine (AMPH) treatment produces changes in RGS4 levels that are correlated with mGluR5 receptor activity. Using coimmunoprecipitation, the present study demonstrated that endogenous RGS4 binds mGluR5 receptors as well as key mGluR5-associated proteins, Galpha(q/11), and phospholipase C-beta1 (PLCbeta1) in preparations from rat striatum. In the next experiment, rats were treated with AMPH (5 mg/kg i.p. daily) for 5 days followed by 3 weeks of abstinence. At this time point, animals pretreated with AMPH displayed sensitized behavioral responses to AMPH challenge and decreased RGS4 protein in dorsal striatum and nucleus accumbens. Behavioral sensitization to AMPH was also accompanied by an increase in Galpha(q/11) and PLCbeta1 in dorsal striatum. In contrast, total levels of mGluR5 receptors in the striatum were not altered by any AMPH treatment. In conclusion, the present study demonstrates that RGS4 protein is an integral part of the mGluR5 protein complex in the striatum. This study further suggests that AMPH-induced changes in mGluR5-associated protein levels (RGS4, Galpha(q/11), and PLCbeta1) may be related to altered coupling of striatal mGluR5 receptors in animals sensitized to AMPH.
The effect of the endogenous cannabinoid anandamide on K(+) currents activated by the ATP-sensitive potassium (K(ATP)) channel opener cromakalim was investigated in follicle-enclosed Xenopus oocytes using the two-electrode voltage-clamp technique. Anandamide (1-90 microM) reversibly inhibited cromakalim-induced K(+) currents, with an IC(50) value of 8.1 +/- 2 microM. Inhibition was noncompetitive and independent of membrane potential. Coapplication of anandamide with the cannabinoid type 1 (CB(1)) receptor antagonist N-(piperidin-1-yl)-5-(4-chlorophenyl)-1-(2,4-dichlorophenyl)-4-methyl-1H-pyrazole-3-carboximide hydrochloride (SR 141716A) (1 microM), the CB(2) receptor antagonist N-[(1S)endo-1,3,3-trimethyl bicyclo heptan-2-yl]-5-(4-chloro-3-methylphenyl)-1-(4-methylbenzyl)-pyrazole-3-carboxamide (SR144528) (1 microM), or pertussis toxin (5 microg/ml) did not alter the inhibitory effect of anandamide, suggesting that known cannabinoid receptors are not involved in anandamide inhibition of K(+) currents. Similarly, neither the amidohydrolase inhibitor phenylmethylsulfonyl fluoride (0.2 mM) nor the cyclooxygenase inhibitor indomethacin (5 microM) affected anandamide inhibition of K(+) currents, suggesting that the effects of anandamide are not mediated by its metabolic products. In radioligand binding studies, anandamide inhibited the specific binding of the K(ATP) ligand [(3)H]glibenclamide in the oocyte microsomal fractions, with an IC(50) value of 6.3 +/- 0.4 microM. Gonadotropin-induced oocyte maturation and the cromakalim-acceleration of progesterone-induced oocyte maturation were significantly inhibited in the presence of 10 microM anandamide. Collectively, these results indicate that cromakalim-activated K(+) currents in follicular cells of Xenopus oocytes are modulated by anandamide via a cannabinoid receptor-independent mechanism and that the inhibition of these channels by anandamide alters the responsiveness of oocytes to gonadotropin and progesterone.
Rapid eye movement (REM) sleep is a behavioural state characterized by activation of the cortical and hippocampal EEG, rapid eye movements and muscle atonia. For the past 30 years, the most widely accepted neural circuitry model for the regulation of REM sleep has emphasized reciprocal inhibitory interactions between pontine brainstem monoaminergic and cholinergic neurons. In general support of the reciprocal interaction model, neuropharmacological studies have shown that cholinergic agonists promote REM sleep and muscarinic antagonists and monoamines inhibit REM sleep. It has nevertheless proven difficult to reconcile both the theoretical framework of this model and the pharmacological data with the fact that selective lesions of either cholinergic or monoaminergic (noradrenergic, serotoninergic or dopaminergic) nuclei in the brainstem have relatively limited effects on REM sleep. Recent work by our laboratory has revealed the presence of non-cholinergic and non-monoaminergic mutually inhibitory REM-off and REM-on areas in the mesopontine tegmentum that may form the neuroanatomical basis of the switching circuitry for REM sleep. These findings posit a REM switching circuitry model that is analogous to an electronic 'flip-flop' switch. In this flip-flop switch arrangement, GABAergic REM-on neurons (located in the sublaterodorsal tegmental nucleus (SLD)) inhibit GABAergic REM-off neurons (located in the ventrolateral periaqueductal grey matter (vlPAG) and lateral pontine tegmentum (LPT)) and vice versa. In the REM-on area are two populations of glutamatergic neurons, the first of which projects to the basal forebrain and regulates EEG components of REM sleep and the second of which projects to the ventromedial medulla and spinal cord and regulates atonia during REM sleep. Our findings demonstrating independent pathways mediating atonia and the EEG components of REM provide a basis for their occasional dissociation in pathological states, e.g. REM sleep behaviour disorder.
As arteries are resistance blood vessels while veins perform a capacitance function, it might be expected that sympathetic neural control of arteries and veins would differ. The function of sympathetic nerves supplying mesenteric arteries (MA) and veins (MV) in rats was investigated using in vitro continuous amperometry with a carbon fibre microelectrode and video imaging. We simultaneously measured noradrenaline (NA) overflow at the blood vessel adventitial surface and vasoconstriction evoked by electrical stimulation of perivascular sympathetic nerves. Sympathetic nerve arrangement was studied using glyoxylic acid-induced fluorescence of NA. We found that: (i) there were significant differences between MA and MV in the arrangement of sympathetic nerves; (ii) frequency-response curves for NA overflow and vasoconstriction for MV were left-shifted compared to MA; (iii) the P2X receptor antagonist, pyridoxal-phosphate-6-azophenyl-2',4'-disulphonic acid (PPADS, 10 microm), reduced constrictions in MA but not in MV while the alpha(1)-adrenergic receptor antagonist, prazosin (0.1 microm), blocked constrictions in MV but not in MA; (iv) NA overflow for MA was enhanced by the alpha(2)-adrenergic receptor antagonist, yohimbine (1.0 microm), and attenuated by the alpha(2)-adrenergic receptor agonist, UK 14,304 (1.0 microm), while yohimbine and UK 14,304 had little effect in MV; (v) cocaine (10 microm) produced larger increases in NA overflow in MA than in MV; (vi) UK 14,304 constricted MV but not MA while yohimbine reduced constrictions in MV but not MA. We conclude that there are fundamental differences in sympathetic neuroeffector mechanisms in MA and MV, which are likely to contribute to their different haemodynamic functions.
Pathogenic events in Alzheimer's disease are believed to involve an imbalance between the production and clearance of the neurotoxic 42 amino acid form of the beta-amyloid peptide (Abeta1-42). Although much is known about the production of Abeta1-42, many questions remain about its degradation. Here, we describe an optimized automated immunoprecipitation mass spectrometry method that enables accurate and rapid monitoring of the major Abeta isoforms in cerebrospinal fluid. Furthermore, we describe a technique of antibody immobilization, minimizing background signals. The identities of these Abeta products were confirmed using matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization time-of-flight mass spectrometry and nanoflow liquid chromatography and tandem mass spectrometry with a hybrid linear trap Fourier transform ion cyclotron resonance mass spectrometer. Finally, we report the finding of two novel Abeta peptides (Abeta2-17 and Abeta3-17).


The question addressed in the present study was whether post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) results in associative learning impairments. To answer this question, differential trace eyeblink (EB) conditioning was studied in combat veterans with PTSD, combat veterans without PTSD, and non-combat veterans without PTSD. Veterans with PTSD showed normal EB discrimination, suggesting that associative learning is not impaired by PTSD. Veterans with PTSD also showed normal extinction. However, subjects with PTSD showed more EB conditioned responses (CRs), as well as increased CR amplitude. Increased response amplitude to the airpuff unconditioned stimulus presented alone (viz. the unconditioned response), as well as to the airpuff on CS+ trials during conditioning also occurred in the subjects with PTSD. These findings suggest increased reactivity in combat veterans with PTSD, compared to those without PTSD, but such heightened reactivity does not affect somatomotor associative learning.
Methamphetamine (MA) use is considered as one of the nation's most pressing drug problems. In California, MA use has outstripped all other drugs in epidemiological extent, law enforcement activities, and treatment services demand. An opportunity for further study of MA use and its treatment emerged from a change in offender sentencing options introduced by California's Substance Abuse and Crime Prevention Act of 2000 (SACPA). Results indicate that statewide admissions for MA rose from 8.4% in FY 1992/1993 to 34.6% in FY 2004/2005, a four-fold increase over the 13 years. From the year before SACPA implementation to the year after, the percentage of treatment admissions due to MA use increased from 18.8% to 25.6%, an increase largely due to the fact that SACPA admissions were over 50% MA users. With the exception of alcohol, MA users entering treatment through SACPA had higher completion rates (about one third) from community based treatment than users of other primary drugs. This result held true for demographic and other subgroups of MA users. Multivariate regression results illuminate the relative importance of the variables examined. Implication of the findings for policy, intervention services, and research are discussed.
It has previously been postulated that the therapeutic effect of antidepressants, particularly selective serotonin re-uptake inhibitors (SSRIs), is mediated by a down-regulation of somatodendritic (presynaptic) 5-HT(1A) autoreceptors with chronic treatment. Animal studies have revealed that repeated administration of corticosteroids similarly down-regulate this receptor. However, it has previously been difficult to explore if this receptor is similarly modulated in man in vivo. The objective of this study was to explore the effect of repeated administration of cortisol to healthy volunteers utilising a novel putative index of somatodendritic 5-HT(1A) autoreceptor function. This method involves the administration of the 5-HT(1A) agonist buspirone and observing the subsequent negative shift in the frequency spectrum of the electroencephalogram (EEG). Healthy male volunteers were treated with cortisol 20 mg, or placebo, orally twice daily for 7 days in a double-blind random-order crossover study. After each treatment period volunteers were administered buspirone 30 mg orally prior to EEG recordings. Following a week's treatment with placebo, buspirone led to a negative shift in the EEG frequency spectrum as previously reported. However, following treatment with cortisol, the effect of buspirone was significantly attenuated. This is consistent with corticosteroids having a similar effect on somatodendritic 5-HT(1A) autoreceptors in man as seen in rodents.
We have previously reported that rats exposed chronically to citalopram are able to elicit a corticosterone but not adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH) response to restraint stress. Thus we proposed the hypothesis that the corticosterone response to restraint in citalopram-treated rats was maintained due to increased adrenal sensitivity to lower ACTH levels. To test this hypothesis, we intravenously injected ACTH (1-24) to rats (dose 3 ng/rat) exposed to citalopram through minipump infusion for 14 days and to control rats (no citalopram). ACTH significantly increased plasma corticosterone levels in both control and citalopram treated rats over a period of 120 min. There was no significant difference in plasma corticosterone between citalopram treated rats and control rats at any time point. Therefore we conclude that, under these experimental conditions, citalopram does not appear to sensitize the rodent adrenal gland to ACTH, and that other mechanisms may be responsible for the ACTH/corticosterone disconnection.
Malignant peripheral nerve sheath tumors (MPNST) are the most aggressive cancers associated with neurofibromatosis type 1 (NF1). Here we report a practical and reproducible model of intraneural NF1 MPNST, by orthotopic xenograft of an immortal human NF1 tumor-derived Schwann cell line into the sciatic nerves of female scid mice. Intraneural injection of the cell line sNF96.2 consistently produced MPNST-like tumors that were highly cellular and showed extensive intraneural growth. These xenografts had a high proliferative index, were angiogenic, had significant mast cell infiltration and rapidly dominated the host nerve. The histopathology of engrafted intraneural tumors was consistent with that of human NF1 MPNST. Xenograft tumors were readily examined by magnetic resonance imaging, which also was used to assess tumor vascularity. In addition, the intraneural proliferation of sNF96.2 cell tumors was decreased in ovariectomized mice, while replacement of estrogen or progesterone restored tumor cell proliferation. This suggests a potential role for steroid hormones in supporting tumor cell growth of this MPNST cell line in vivo. The controlled orthotopic implantation of sNF96.2 cells provides for the precise initiation of intraneural MPNST-like tumors in a model system suitable for therapeutic interventions, including inhibitors of angiogenesis and further study of steroid hormone effects on tumor cell growth.
Amphiphysin 1 is involved in clathrin-mediated endocytosis. In this study, we demonstrate that amphiphysin 1 is essential for cellular phagocytosis and that it is critical for actin polymerization. Phagocytosis in Sertoli cells was induced by stimulating phosphatidylserine receptors. This stimulation led to the formation of actin-rich structures, including ruffles, phagocytic cups, and phagosomes, all of which showed an accumulation of amphiphysin 1. Knocking out amphiphysin 1 by RNA interference in the cells resulted in the reduction of ruffle formation, actin polymerization, and phagocytosis. Phagocytosis was also drastically decreased in amph 1 (-/-) Sertoli cells. In addition, phosphatidylinositol-4,5-bisphosphate-induced actin polymerization was decreased in the knockout testis cytosol. The addition of recombinant amphiphysin 1 to the cytosol restored the polymerization process. Ruffle formation in small interfering RNA-treated cells was recovered by the expression of constitutively active Rac1, suggesting that amphiphysin 1 functions upstream of the protein. These findings support that amphiphysin 1 is important in the regulation of actin dynamics and that it is required for phagocytosis.
alpha-Dystroglycan (alpha-DG) is an important cellular receptor for extracellular matrix (ECM) proteins as well as the Old World arenaviruses lymphocytic choriomeningitis virus (LCMV) and the human pathogenic Lassa fever virus (LFV). Specific O-glycosylation of alpha-DG is critical for its function as receptor for ECM proteins and arenaviruses. Here, we investigated the impact of arenavirus infection on alpha-DG expression. Infection with an immunosuppressive LCMV isolate caused a marked reduction in expression of functional alpha-DG without affecting biosynthesis of DG core protein or global cell surface glycoprotein expression. The effect was caused by the viral glycoprotein (GP), and it critically depended on alpha-DG binding affinity and GP maturation. An equivalent effect was observed with LFVGP. Viral GP was found to associate with a complex between DG and the glycosyltransferase LARGE in the Golgi. Overexpression of LARGE restored functional alpha-DG expression in infected cells. We provide evidence that virus-induced down-modulation of functional alpha-DG perturbs DG-mediated assembly of laminin at the cell surface, affecting normal cell-matrix interactions.
The correct morphology and migration of neurons, which is essential for the normal development of the nervous system, is enabled by the regulation of their cytoskeletal elements. We reveal that Neurabin-I, a neuronal-specific F-actin-binding protein, has an essential function in the developing forebrain. We show that gain and loss of Neurabin-I expression affect neuronal morphology, neurite outgrowth, and radial migration of differentiating cortical and hippocampal neurons, suggesting that tight regulation of Neurabin-I function is required for normal forebrain development. Importantly, loss of Neurabin-I prevents pyramidal neurons from migrating into the cerebral cortex, indicating its essential role during early stages of corticogenesis. We demonstrate that in neurons Rac1 activation is affected by the expression levels of Neurabin-I. Furthermore, the Cdk5 kinase, a key regulator of neuronal migration and morphology, directly phosphorylates Neurabin-I and controls its association with F-actin. Mutation of the Cdk5 phosphorylation site reduces the phenotypic consequences of Neurabin-I overexpression both in vitro and in vivo, suggesting that Neurabin-I function depends, at least in part, on its phosphorylation status. Together our findings provide new insight into the signaling pathways responsible for controlled changes of the F-actin cytoskeleton that are required for normal development of the forebrain.
This report examines the structure and function of ARHGAP4, a novel RhoGAP whose structural features make it ideally suited to regulate the cytoskeletal dynamics that control cell motility and axon outgrowth. Our studies show that ARHGAP4 inhibits the migration of NIH/3T3 cells and the outgrowth of hippocampal axons. ARHGAP4 contains an N-terminal FCH domain, a central GTPase activating (GAP) domain and a C-terminal SH3 domain. Our structure/function analyses show that the FCH domain appears to be important for spatially localizing ARHGAP4 to the leading edges of migrating NIH/3T3 cells and to axon growth cones. Our analyses also show that the GAP domain and C-terminus are necessary for ARHGAP4-mediated inhibition of cell and axon motility. These observations suggest that ARHGAP4 can act as a potent inhibitor of cell and axon motility when it is localized to the leading edge of motile cells and axons.
The herpes simplex virus (HSV) amplicon vector is a powerful gene delivery vehicle that can accommodate up to 150 kilobase of exogenous DNA. However, amplicon-mediated transgene expression is often transient outside the nervous system. In order to define the role of host immune responses in silencing amplicon-encoded transgenes, we evaluated the kinetics of cytokine-/chemokine-expression after tail-vein injection of a luciferase-encoding amplicon into mice. Type I interferons (IFNs) were induced earliest, within an hour after injection, and several other cytokines/chemokines were subsequently upregulated in the livers of wild-type (WT) mice. When the same experiment was performed in signal transducers and activators of transcription 1 (STAT1)-knockout (KO) mice, the levels of type I IFN expression were significantly lower and chemokine induction was almost non-existent. Importantly, STAT1-KO mice exhibited significantly higher and more sustained luciferase activity than did the WT mice, which is attributable to increased transcriptional activity rather than increased copy numbers of luciferase-encoding vector DNA. Further studies using primary cultured fibroblasts derived from WT and STAT1-KO mice revealed the significance of STAT1 signaling in transcriptional silencing of the amplicon-encoded transgene in vitro. Our results indicate that type I IFNs induced by systemic delivery of HSV amplicon vectors initiate a cascade of immune responses and suppress transgene expression at the transcriptional level by activation of STAT1.
The Miller Fisher syndrome (MFS), characterized by ataxia, areflexia, and ophthalmoplegia, was first recognized as a distinct clinical entity in 1956. MFS is mostly an acute, self-limiting condition, but there is anecdotal evidence of benefit with immunotherapy. Pathological data remain scarce. MFS can be associated with infectious, autoimmune, and neoplastic disorders. Radiological findings have suggested both central and peripheral involvement. The anti-GQ1b IgG antibody titer is most commonly elevated in MFS, but may also be increased in Guillain-Barr syndrome (GBS) and Bickerstaff's brainstem encephalitis (BBE). Molecular mimicry, particularly in relation to antecedent Campylobacter jejuni and Hemophilus influenzae infections, is likely the predominant pathogenic mechanism, but the roles of other biological factors remain to be established. Recent studies have demonstrated the presence of neuromuscular transmission defects in association with anti-GQ1b IgG antibody, both in vitro and in vivo. Collective findings from clinical, radiological, immunological, and electrophysiological techniques have helped to define MFS, GBS, and BBE as major disorders within the proposed spectrum of anti-GQ1b IgG antibody syndrome.
Excitability measurements on human motor and sensory nerves have provided new insights into axonal membrane changes in peripheral nerve disorders. The aim of this study was to establish an in vivo rat preparation suitable for threshold tracking of sensory nerve action potentials (SNAPs) to model clinical sensory nerve excitability studies. In Sprague-Dawley rats anesthetized with ketamine and xylazine, current stimuli were applied to the base of the tail and SNAPs recorded from distal needle electrodes. Multiple excitability data were obtained as previously described for human nerves and compared to recordings from the motor tail axons and to sensory recordings from human median and ulnar nerves. The pattern of excitability changes in rats was broadly similar to that in humans, although some parameters differed significantly. Individual recordings were stable for at least 3 h. These data show that the rat tail enables excitability properties of sensory as well as motor axons to be studied experimentally, e.g., in models of nerve disease and during pharmacological interventions.
Sympathetic neural control of cardiovascular function is essential for normal regulation of blood pressure and tissue perfusion. In the present review we discuss sympathetic neural mechanisms in human cardiovascular physiology and pathophysiology, with a focus on evidence from direct recordings of sympathetic nerve activity using microneurography. Measurements of sympathetic nerve activity to skeletal muscle have provided extensive information regarding reflex control of blood pressure and blood flow in conditions ranging from rest to postural changes, exercise, and mental stress in populations ranging from healthy controls to patients with hypertension and heart failure. Measurements of skin sympathetic nerve activity have also provided important insights into neural control, but are often more difficult to interpret since the activity contains several types of nerve impulses with different functions. Although most studies have focused on group mean differences, we provide evidence that individual variability in sympathetic nerve activity is important to the ultimate understanding of these integrated physiological mechanisms.

The brain is a heterogeneous organ with regionally varied and constantly changing energetic needs. Blood vessels in the brain are equipped with control mechanisms that match oxygen and glucose delivery through blood flow with the local metabolic demands that are imposed by neural activity. However, the cellular bases of this mechanism have remained elusive. A major advance has been the demonstration that astrocytes, cells with extensive contacts with both synapses and cerebral blood vessels, participate in the increases in flow evoked by synaptic activity. Their organization in nonoverlapping spatial domains indicates that they are uniquely positioned to shape the spatial distribution of the vascular responses that are evoked by neural activity. Astrocytic calcium is an important determinant of microvascular function and may regulate flow independently of synaptic activity. The involvement of astrocytes in neurovascular coupling has broad implications for the interpretation of functional imaging signals and for the understanding of brain diseases that are associated with neurovascular dysfunction.
A lesson from dominantly inherited forms of diverse neurodegenerative diseases, including amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, spinocerebellar ataxia and Huntington's disease, is that the selective dysfunction or death of the neuronal population most at risk in each disease is not mediated solely by damage from the mutant protein within the target neurons. The disease-causing toxic process, which in each case is caused by mutation in a gene that is widely or ubiquitously expressed, involves damage done by mutant proteins within the non-neuronal glial cells of the central nervous system, especially astrocytes and microglia. The disease mechanism is non-cell-autonomous, with toxicity derived from glia as a prominent contributor driving disease progression and in some instances even disease initiation.
The loss of central nervous system myelin and the failure of remyelination by oligodendrocytes contribute to the functional impairment that characterizes diseases such as multiple sclerosis. Why myelin repair fails in multiple sclerosis is currently unclear; however, new understanding of the generation of oligodendrocytes and myelination during development, as well as an increasing understanding of the bases of successful remyelination, are providing new insights and therapeutic targets. We propose that successful myelin repair of the adult CNS recapitulates a sequence of stages that generally correlate with those seen during development, whereas unsuccessful myelin repair results from the perturbation of a critical process in any one of several sequential events. Defining the rate-limiting steps and most vulnerable aspects at each stage of myelin repair will provide logical targets for therapeutic intervention in demyelinating diseases such as multiple sclerosis.
Instrumental conditioning allows animals to learn about the consequences of their own actions, but the underpinning molecular mechanisms remain elusive. Here we show that the sphingosine-1-phosphate (S1P) receptor Gpr6 is selectively expressed in the striatopallidal neurons in the striatum. Gpr6-deficient mice showed reduced striatal cyclic AMP production in vitro and selective alterations in instrumental conditioning in vivo. Thus, Gpr6 is the first striatopallidal neuron-specific genetic regulator of instrumental conditioning in a mammal.
Numerous studies have shown that ingrowing olfactory axons exert powerful inductive influences on olfactory map development. From an overexpression screen, we have identified wnt5 as a potent organizer of the olfactory map in Drosophila melanogaster. Loss of wnt5 resulted in severe derangement of the glomerular pattern, whereas overexpression of wnt5 resulted in the formation of ectopic midline glomeruli. Cell type-specific cDNA rescue and mosaic experiments showed that wnt5 functions in olfactory neurons. Mutation of the derailed (drl) gene, encoding a receptor for Wnt5, resulted in derangement of the glomerular map, ectopic midline glomeruli and the accumulation of Wnt5 at the midline. We show here that drl functions in glial cells, where it acts upstream of wnt5 to modulate its function in glomerular patterning. Our findings establish wnt5 as an anterograde signal that is expressed by olfactory axons and demonstrate a previously unappreciated, yet powerful, role for glia in patterning the Drosophila olfactory map.
Attention depends on figure-ground organization: figures draw attention, whereas shapes of the ground tend to be ignored. Recent research has revealed mechanisms for figure-ground organization in the visual cortex, but how these mechanisms relate to the attention process remains unclear. Here we show that the influences of figure-ground organization and volitional (top-down) attention converge in single neurons of area V2 in Macaca mulatta. Although we found assignment of border ownership for attended and for ignored figures, attentional modulation was stronger when the attended figure was located on the neuron's preferred side of border ownership. When the border between two overlapping figures was placed in the receptive field, responses depended on the side of attention, and enhancement was generally found on the neuron's preferred side of border ownership. This correlation suggests that the neural network that creates figure-ground organization also provides the interface for the top-down selection process.
Attention can selectively enhance neuronal responses and exclude external noise, but the neuronal computations that underlie these effects remain unknown. At the neuronal level, noise exclusion might result in altered spatial integration properties. We tested this proposal by recording neuronal activity and length tuning in neurons of the primary visual cortex of the macaque when attention was directed toward or away from stimuli presented in each neuron's classical receptive field. For cells with central-parafoveal receptive fields, attention reduced spatial integration, as demonstrated by a reduction in preferred stimulus length and in the size of the spatial summation area. Conversely, in cells that represented more peripheral locations, attention increased spatial integration by increasing the cell's summation area. This previously unknown dichotomy between central and peripheral vision could support accurate analysis of attended foveal objects and target selection for impending eye movements to peripheral objects.
Dopamine-depleting lesions of the striatum that mimic Parkinson's disease induce a profound pruning of spines and glutamatergic synapses in striatopallidal medium spiny neurons, leaving striatonigral medium spiny neurons intact. The mechanisms that underlie this cell type-specific loss of connectivity are poorly understood. The Kir2 K(+) channel is an important determinant of dendritic excitability in these cells. Here we show that opening of these channels is potently reduced by signaling through M1 muscarinic receptors in striatopallidal neurons, but not in striatonigral neurons. This asymmetry could be attributed to differences in the subunit composition of Kir2 channels. Dopamine depletion alters the subunit composition further, rendering Kir2 channels in striatopallidal neurons even more susceptible to modulation. Reduced opening of Kir2 channels enhances dendritic excitability and synaptic integration. This cell type-specific enhancement of dendritic excitability is an essential trigger for synaptic pruning after dopamine depletion, as pruning was prevented by genetic deletion of M1 muscarinic receptors.
The hippocampus is often considered to be an important site for stress and learning interactions; however, it has never been demonstrated whether these effects require the hippocampus. In the current study, hippocampal lesions prevented both enhancements of learning after stress in male rats and impairments of learning after stress in female rats without disrupting learning itself in either sex. Thus, the hippocampus is necessary for modifying learning in males and females after acute stressful experience.
Chemokines are not only found in the immune system or expressed in inflammatory conditions: they are constitutively present in the brain in both glial cells and neurons. Recently, the possibility has been raised that they might act as neurotransmitters or neuromodulators. Although the evidence is incomplete, emerging data show that chemokines have several of the characteristics that define neurotransmitters. Moreover, their physiological actions resemble those of neuromodulators in the sense that chemokines usually have few effects by themselves in basal conditions, but modify the induced release of neurotransmitters or neuropeptides. These findings, together with the pharmacological development of agonists and antagonists that are selective for chemokine receptors and can cross the blood-brain barrier, open a new era of research in neuroscience.

Spontaneous activity in the developing auditory system is required for neuronal survival as well as the refinement and maintenance of tonotopic maps in the brain. However, the mechanisms responsible for initiating auditory nerve firing in the absence of sound have not been determined. Here we show that supporting cells in the developing rat cochlea spontaneously release ATP, which causes nearby inner hair cells to depolarize and release glutamate, triggering discrete bursts of action potentials in primary auditory neurons. This endogenous, ATP-mediated signalling synchronizes the output of neighbouring inner hair cells, which may help refine tonotopic maps in the brain. Spontaneous ATP-dependent signalling rapidly subsides after the onset of hearing, thereby preventing this experience-independent activity from interfering with accurate encoding of sound. These data indicate that supporting cells in the organ of Corti initiate electrical activity in auditory nerves before hearing, pointing to an essential role for peripheral, non-sensory cells in the development of central auditory pathways.

Advances in modern neuroscience require the identification of principles that connect different levels of experimental analysis, from molecular mechanisms to explanations of cellular functions, then to circuits, and, ultimately, to systems and behavior. Here, we examine how synaptic organization of the sympathetic ganglia may enable them to function as use-dependent amplifiers of preganglionic activity and how the gain of this amplification may be modulated by metabotropic signaling mechanisms. The approach combines a general computational model of ganglionic integration together with experimental tests of the model using the dynamic clamp method. In these experiments, we recorded intracellularly from dissociated bullfrog sympathetic neurons and then mimicked physiological synapses with virtual computer-generated synapses. It thus became possible to analyze the synaptic gain by recording cellular responses to complex patterns of synaptic activity that normally arise in vivo from convergent nicotinic and muscarinic synapses. The results of these studies are significant because they illustrate how gain generated through ganglionic integration may contribute to the feedback control of important autonomic behaviors, in particular to the control of the blood pressure. We dedicate this paper to the memory of Professor Vladimir Skok, whose rich legacy in synaptic physiology helped establish the modern paradigm for connecting multiple levels of analysis in studies of the nervous system.


In order to improve diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease (AD), candidate biological markers in CSF as well as structural and functional imaging were investigated. Biomarkers are clearly needed to support detection of incipient AD in subjects with mild cognitive impairment (MCI). To date the most promising core candidate markers are total and hyperphosphorylated tau protein and amyloid beta peptides in the CSF, as well as hippocampus and whole brain volumetry using MRI. None of the candidates has been finally validated and established for clinical routine so far. International controlled multicenter cooperative studies are ongoing to further develop these core diagnostic marker candidates (phase III). The core markers are reviewed in detail. Promising novel approaches are discussed.
Simple recurrent networks (SRNs) in symbolic time-series prediction (e.g., language processing models) are frequently trained with gradient descent--based learning algorithms, notably with variants of backpropagation (BP). A major drawback for the cognitive plausibility of BP is that it is a supervised scheme in which a teacher has to provide a fully specified target answer. Yet agents in natural environments often receive summary feedback about the degree of success or failure only, a view adopted in reinforcement learning schemes. In this work, we show that for SRNs in prediction tasks for which there is a probability interpretation of the network's output vector, Elman BP can be reimplemented as a reinforcement learning scheme for which the expected weight updates agree with the ones from traditional Elman BP. Network simulations on formal languages corroborate this result and show that the learning behaviors of Elman backpropagation and its reinforcement variant are very similar also in online learning tasks.
Simultaneous recordings from populations of neurons in the inferior temporal visual cortex show that most of the information about which stimulus was shown is available in the number of spikes (or firing rate) of each neuron, and not from stimulus-dependent synchrony, so that it is unlikely that stimulus-dependent synchrony (or indeed oscillations) is an essential aspect of visual object perception. Neurophysiological investigations of backward masking show that the threshold for conscious visual perception may be set to be higher than the level at which small but significant information is present in neuronal firing and which allows humans to guess which stimulus was shown without conscious awareness. The adaptive value of this may be that the systems in the brain that implement the type of information processing involved in conscious thoughts are not interrupted by small signals that could be noise in sensory pathways. I then consider what computational processes are closely related to conscious processing, and describe a higher order syntactic thought (HOST) computational theory of consciousness. It is argued that the adaptive value of higher order thoughts is to solve the credit assignment problem that arises if a multistep syntactic plan needs to be corrected. It is then suggested that it feels like something to be an organism that can think about its own linguistic, and semantically-based thoughts. It is suggested that qualia, raw sensory and emotional feels, arise secondarily to having evolved such a higher order thought system, and that sensory and emotional processing feels like something because it would be unparsimonious for it to enter the planning, higher order thought, system and not feel like something.
While neural net models have been developed to a high degree of sophistication, they have some drawbacks at a more integrative, &quot;architectural&quot; level of analysis. We describe a &quot;hybrid&quot; cognitive architecture that is implementable in neuronal nets, and which has uniform brainlike features, including activation-passing and highly distributed &quot;codelets,&quot; implementable as small-scale neural nets. Empirically, this cognitive architecture accounts qualitatively for the data described by Baars' Global Workspace Theory (GWT), and Franklin's LIDA architecture, including state-of-the-art models of conscious contents in action-planning, Baddeley-style Working Memory, and working models of episodic and semantic longterm memory. These terms are defined both conceptually and empirically for the current theoretical domain. The resulting architecture meets four desirable goals for a unified theory of cognition: practical workability, autonomous agency, a plausible role for conscious cognition, and translatability into plausible neural terms. It also generates testable predictions, both empirical and computational.
Clinical and experimental studies show that estrogens can have beneficial effects on hippocampus-dependent cognitive functions that may be mediated by estrogen receptor (ER)alpha. We investigated whether menopause and Alzheimer's disease (AD) cause changes in this ER subtype. Immunocytochemical staining of ERalpha, aromatase and Golgi complex (GC) was performed on paraffin embedded hippocampal tissue from women of the pre-, peri- and postmenopausal age. Canonical ERalpha mRNA amplicons, ERalpha splice variants (del.2, del.4, del.7, MB1) and aromatase transcripts were measured by Q-PCR in frozen hippocampal samples of AD and matched control cases. Nuclear ERalpha, aromatase and the GC enhanced during aging in women indicating availability of locally synthesized estrogens that may up-regulate ERalpha by which neuronal metabolism can be augmented in the hippocampus after the menopause. In AD cases canonical and alternatively spliced ERalpha mRNA, and aromatase gene expression were down-regulated suggesting a deficit in local estrogen levels and diminished signalling through ERalpha. The major ERalpha splice variants in the hippocampus were found to be MB1 and del.4. A novel ERalpha isoform TADDI was isolated and sequenced from two female patients. It lacks 31 bp at the junction between exons 3 and 4 with an insertion of 13 nucleotides from the middle of the exon 2.
Acute stressful experience enhances subsequent learning in males and impairs learning in females. These sex differences emerge soon after puberty in adulthood. Whether these opposite effects of stress on learning extend into older age is unknown. To examine this, young adult (2-3 months) and middle aged (17-18 months) Fischer 344 rats of both sexes were exposed to an acute stressor of brief tailshocks and trained 24 h later with classical eyeblink conditioning using a trace paradigm. Whereas stressful experience enhanced conditioning in adult males and impaired conditioning in adult females, it had no effect whatsoever on conditioning in the aging animals of either sex. There was no effect of aging itself on acquisition of the conditioned response, suggesting that trace conditioning is not necessarily compromised during this period of life. Together, these data indicate that associative learning in the aging animal is resistant to both the negative and positive consequences of stressful experience.
Presenilin-1 (PSEN-1) is a component of the gamma-secretase complex involved in beta-amyloid precursor protein (betaAPP) processing. To date about 140 pathogenic mutations in the PSEN-1 gene have been identified and their main biochemical effect is to increase the production of the fibrillogenic peptide Abeta(1-42). An exception is the PSEN-1 [E318G] mutation that does not alter Abeta(1-42) generation and is generally considered a non-pathogenic polymorphism. Nevertheless, this mutation was reported to be a genetic risk factor for familial Alzheimer's disease (FAD) in the Australian population. To independently confirm this indication, we performed a case-control association study in the Italian population. We found a significant association (p&lt;0.05, Fisher's exact test) between the presence of PSEN-1 [E318G] and FAD. In addition, on measuring the Abeta(1-42) and Abeta(1-40) concentrations in fibroblast-conditioned media cultured from PSEN-1 [E318G] carriers and PSEN-1 [wild type] controls we noted a significant decrease (p&lt;0.05, Mann-Whitney test) in the Abeta(1-42)/Abeta(1-40) ratio in PSEN-1 [E318G] carriers, suggesting a peculiar biochemical effect of this mutation.
Event-related fMRI studies have investigated age-related changes in encoding by identifying greater activity for items that are later remembered than for those that are forgotten (difference in memory, or Dm). The present study used hybrid blocked/event-related analyses to distinguish between transient Dm versus sustained Dm. Dm was identified as parametric increases in encoding activity as a function of a combined subsequent memory/confidence scale. Dm was measured in each trial (transient activity) and in blocks of eight trials (sustained activity). Transient Dm analyses showed age-related reductions in the left hippocampus but increases in left prefrontal cortex (PFC). Sustained Dm analyses showed age-related reductions in right PFC, but no region showing increased activity in older adults. These findings suggests that during semantic classification older adults show less spontaneous hippocampal-mediated encoding processes, but greater PFC-mediated semantic processes. Additionally, the decline in sustained Dm in PFC may involve age-related deficits in sustained attention that impact encoding processes. The results underscore the importance of investigating aging effects on both transient and sustained neural activity.
The opioid peptides dynorphins may be involved in pathogenesis of Alzheimer disease (AD) by inducing neurodegeneration or cognitive impairment. To test this hypothesis, the dynorphin system was analyzed in postmortem samples from AD and control subjects, and subjects with Parkinson or cerebro-vascular diseases for comparison. Dynorphin A, dynorphin B and related neuropeptide nociceptin were determined in the Brodmann area 7 by radioimmunoassay. The precursor protein prodynorphin, processing convertase PC2 and the neuroendocrine pro7B2 and 7B2 proteins required for PC2 maturation were analyzed by Western blot. AD subjects displayed robustly elevated levels of dynorphin A and no differences in dynorphin B and nociceptin compared to controls. Subjects with Parkinson or cerebro-vascular diseases did not differ from controls with respect to any of the three peptides. PC2 levels were also increased, whereas, those of prodynorphin and pro7B2/7B2 were not changed in AD. Dynorphin A levels correlated with the neuritic plaque density. These results along with the known non-opioid ability of dynorphin A to induce neurodegeneration suggest a role for this neuropeptide in AD neuropathology.
Electromyographical analyses of pre-symptomatic motor unit loss in the SOD1 G93A transgenic mouse model of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) have yielded contradictory findings as to the onset and time course. We recorded hindlimb muscle and motor unit isometric forces to determine motor unit number and size throughout the life span of the mice. Motor unit numbers in fast-twitch tibialis anterior, extensor digitorum longus and medial gastrocnemius muscles declined from 40 days of age, 50 days before reported overt symptoms and motoneuron loss. Motor unit numbers fell after overt symptoms in the slow-twitch soleus muscle. Muscle forces declined in parallel with motor unit numbers, indicating little or no functional compensation by sprouting. Early muscle-specific decline was due to selective preferential vulnerability of large, fast motor units, innervated by large motoneurons. Large motoneurons are hence the most vulnerable in ALS with die-back occurring prior to overt symptoms. We conclude that size of motoneurons, their axons, and their motor unit size are important determinants of motoneuron susceptibility in ALS.
Alzheimer disease (AD) is characterized by the presence of plaques and tangles in parallel with progressive cognitive decline. The underlying cause of the cognitive decline is unknown. The purpose of this study was to identify factors that could affect learning and memory using the Tg2576 mouse model of AD. Un-biased GeneChip analysis at the time-point coinciding with the onset of behavioral deficits but prior to plaque deposition revealed that Tg2576 show altered gene expression for a number of molecules including the chemokine CXCL12. We show that this chemokine's mRNA, protein and receptor are downregulated in this mouse model coinciding with cognitive deficits. Furthermore, we demonstrate that CXCL12 levels are decreased in AD patients as compared to controls. To determine if CXCL12 might be related to impaired learning and memory, we chronically treated young non-transgenic mice with an antagonist to the CXCL12 receptor to simulate the reduction seen in transgenic animals. Treated animals showed selectively impaired learning and memory suggesting a potential role for this chemokine in cognitive functioning.
Neuronal-astrocytic interactions in 1-month-old Genetic Absence Epilepsy Rats from Strasbourg (GAERS) before the occurrence of seizures are compared to those in non-epileptic rats (NERs) and in adult GAERS expressing epilepsy. Animals received [1-13C]glucose and [1,2-13C]acetate, preferential substrates of neurons and astrocytes, respectively, and extracts from cerebral cortex, subcortex and cerebellum were analyzed by NMR spectroscopy. Increased mitochondrial metabolism took place in the cortical neurons of immature and adult GAERS and therefore does not seem to be a consequence of the occurrence of absence seizures. Glutamine supply to GABAergic neurons was reduced in cortex and subcortex in young GAERS, as reflected by increased glutamine content and decreased 13C-labeling of GABA. In the brain of immature GAERS, interactions between glutamatergic neurons and astrocytes appeared normal whereas increased astrocytic metabolism took place in adult GAERS, suggesting that astrocytic alterations could possibly be the cause of seizures.
The endocannabinoid CB(1) receptor has been implicated in the inhibitory control of learning and memory. In the present experiment, we compared the behavioral response of CB(1) receptor knockout mice (CB(1)R(-/-)) with animals administered CB(1) receptor antagonist/inverse agonist SR141716A (rimonabant; 3 mg/kg IP, 30 min pre-trial) in terms of acquisition and retention of a habituation task and changes in cerebral monoamines. The results can be summarized as follows: (i) the acute and chronic invalidation of the CB(1) receptor resulted in an increase of behavioral habituation during the first exposure to an open field, indicative of enhanced acquisition of the task; (ii) CB(1)R(-/-) mice, but not rimonabant-treated animals, showed enhanced retention of the habituation task when re-tested 48 h and 1 week subsequent to the first exposure to the open field, respectively; (iii) the facilitation of retention of the habituation task in CB(1)R(-/-) mice was accompanied by a selective and site-specific increase in serotonin activity in hippocampus; and (iv) rimonabant-treated animals displayed 'antidepressant-like' neurochemical alterations of cerebral monoamines, that is, most parameters of monoaminergic activity were increased especially in dorsal striatum and hippocampus. Taken together, the present findings demonstrate that the genetic disruption of the CB(1) receptor gene can cause an improvement of behavioral habituation, which is considered to represent a form of 'non-associative' learning. Furthermore, our data support the assumption of a rimonabant-sensitive cannabinoid receptive site that is different from the 'classical' CB(1) receptor and which, under physiological conditions, might be involved in the inhibitory control of the acquisition but not retention of non-associative learning tasks.
There is accumulating evidences to suggest that memory consolidation in some conditions involves two waves of neuronal plastic change. Using two fear conditioning procedures in male C57BL/6J mice, we have recently shown that consolidation of the foreground contextual fear memory required two waves of ERK1/2 activation in hippocampal CA1, while consolidation of cue conditioning was only associated with the early phase of activation. The present experiment further showed that this bi-phasic pattern of ERK1/2 activation was not restricted to hippocampal CA1, but could also be observed in other fear memory-related brain areas. The unpaired conditioning procedure (context in foreground) induced two waves of ERK1/2 activation in hippocampal CA1 and CA3, as well as in the LA and BLA nuclei of the amygdala. In contrast, the paired conditioning procedure (context in background) led to a transient early phase only in hippocampal CA1 and LA. In addition, ERK1/2 phosphorylation in the hippocampus was found to correlate with that in the amygdala nuclei specifically after the unpaired procedure. Taken together, our data suggest that the observed biphasic pattern of neuronal plastic events may reflect the interplay between hippocampal and amygdala activity-dependent plasticity critical for the system consolidation of contextual fear memory.
Previous research from our laboratory has implicated the basolateral amygdala (BLA) complex in the acquisition and consolidation of cue-cocaine associations, as well as extinction learning, which may regulate the long-lasting control of conditioned stimuli (CS) over drug-seeking behavior. Given the well established role of NMDA glutamate receptor activation in other forms of amygdalar-based learning, we predicted that BLA-mediated drug-cue associative learning would be NMDA receptor dependent. To test this hypothesis, male Sprague-Dawley rats self-administered i.v. cocaine (0.6 mg/kg/infusion) in the absence of explicit CS pairings (2-h sessions, 5 days), followed by a single 1-h classical conditioning (CC) session, during which they received passive infusions of cocaine discretely paired with a light+tone stimulus complex. Following additional cocaine self-administration sessions in the absence of the CS (2-h sessions, 5 days) and extinction training sessions (no cocaine or CS presentation, 2-h sessions, 7 days), the ability of the CS to reinstate cocaine-seeking on three test days was assessed. Rats received bilateral intra-BLA infusions (0.5 microl/hemisphere) of vehicle or the selective NMDA receptor antagonist, 2-amino-5-phosphonovalerate (AP-5), immediately prior to the CC session (acquisition), immediately following the CC session (consolidation), or immediately following reinstatement testing (consolidation of conditioned-cued extinction learning). AP-5 administered before or after CC attenuated subsequent CS-induced reinstatement, whereas AP-5 administered immediately following the first two reinstatement tests impaired the extinction of cocaine-seeking behavior. These results suggest that NMDA receptor-mediated mechanisms within the BLA play a crucial role in the consolidation of drug-CS associations into long-term memories that, in turn, drive cocaine-seeking during relapse.
Extracellular concentrations of the predominant excitatory neurotransmitter, glutamate, and related excitatory amino acids are maintained at relatively low levels to ensure an appropriate signal-to-noise ratio and to prevent excessive activation of glutamate receptors that can result in cell death. The latter phenomenon is known as 'excitotoxicity' and has been associated with a wide range of acute and chronic neurodegenerative disorders, as well as disorders that result in the loss of non-neural cells such as oligodendroglia in multiple sclerosis. Unfortunately clinical trials with glutamate receptor antagonists that would logically seem to prevent the effects of excessive receptor activation have been associated with untoward side effects or little clinical benefit. In the mammalian CNS, the extracellular concentrations of glutamate are controlled by two types of transporters; these include a family of Na(+)-dependent transporters and a cystine-glutamate exchange process, referred to as system X(c)(-). In this review, we will focus primarily on the Na(+)-dependent transporters. A brief introduction to glutamate as a neurotransmitter will be followed by an overview of the properties of these transporters, including a summary of the presumed physiologic mechanisms that regulate these transporters. Many studies have provided compelling evidence that impairing the function of these transporters can increase the sensitivity of tissue to deleterious effects of aberrant activation of glutamate receptors. Over the last decade, it has become clear that many neurodegenerative disorders are associated with a change in localization and/or expression of some of the subtypes of these transporters. This would suggest that therapies directed toward enhancing transporter expression might be beneficial. However, there is also evidence that glutamate transporters might increase the susceptibility of tissue to the consequences of insults that result in a collapse of the electrochemical gradients required for normal function such as stroke. In spite of the potential adverse effects of upregulation of glutamate transporters, there is recent evidence that upregulation of one of the glutamate transporters, GLT-1 (also called EAAT2), with beta-lactam antibiotics attenuates the damage observed in models of both acute and chronic neurodegenerative disorders. While it seems somewhat unlikely that antibiotics specifically target GLT-1 expression, these studies identify a potential strategy to limit excitotoxicity. If successful, this type of approach could have widespread utility given the large number of neurodegenerative diseases associated with decreases in transporter expression and excitotoxicity. However, given the massive effort directed at developing glutamate receptor agents during the 1990s and the relatively modest advances to date, one wonders if we will maintain the patience needed to carefully understand the glutamatergic system so that it will be successfully targeted in the future.
Gamma amino butyric acid is a major inhibitory neurotransmitter in the central nervous system. In the present study we have investigated the alteration of GABA receptors in the brain stem of rats during pancreatic regeneration. Three groups of rats were used for the study: sham operated, 72 h and 7 days partially pancreatectomised. GABA was quantified by [(3)H]GABA receptor displacement method. GABA receptor kinetic parameters were studied by using the binding of [(3)H]GABA as ligand to the Triton X-100 treated membranes and displacement with unlabelled GABA. GABA(A) receptor activity was studied by using the [(3)H]bicuculline and displacement with unlabelled bicuculline. GABA content significantly decreased (P &lt; 0.001) in the brain stem during the regeneration of pancreas. The high affinity GABA receptor binding showed a significant decrease in B(max) (P &lt; 0.01) and K(d) (P &lt; 0.05) in 72 h and 7 days after partial pancreatectomy. [(3)H]bicuculline binding showed a significant decrease in B(max) and K(d) (P &lt; 0.001) in 72 h pancreatectomised rats when compared with sham where as B(max) and K(d) reversed to near sham after 7 days of pancreatectomy. The results suggest that GABA through GABA receptors in brain stem has a regulatory role during active regeneration of pancreas which will have immense clinical significance in the treatment of diabetes.
Glioblastoma patients receive anti-inflammatory agent for alleviation of vasogenic edema and pain prior to surgery, radiotherapy, and chemotherapy. Oxidative stress is an important mechanism of action of some chemotherapeutic agents in the treatment of glioblastoma. So, we examined the modulatory effects of methylprednisolone (MP, a steroidal anti-inflammatory agent) and indomethacin (IM, a non-steroidal anti-inflammatory agent) on apoptosis in rat C6 glioblastoma cells following oxidative stress with hydrogen peroxide (H(2)O(2)). Exposure of C6 cells to 1 mM H(2)O(2) for 24 h caused significant amounts of morphological and biochemical features of apoptosis. Expressions of Bax and Bcl-2 at mRNA and protein levels were altered resulting in an increase in Bax : Bcl-2 ratio in apoptotic cells, which also exhibited overexpression of 80 kDa calpain and an increase in calpain-cleaved 145 kDa alpha-spectrin breakdown product. Immunofluorescent and propidium iodide labeling detected caspase-3-p20 fragment in apoptotic cells, indicating activation of caspase-3 as well. Treatment of cells with 1 microM MP or 10 microM IM alone did not induce apoptosis. Pretreatment (1 h) with either 1 microM MP or 10 microM IM significantly inhibited H(2)O(2) mediated apoptosis in C6 cells. Thus, pretreatment of glioblastoma with an anti-inflammatory agent, either steroidal or non-steroidal, may compromise the action of a chemotherapeutic agent that mediates therapeutic action via oxidative stress.
This study characterized P2X receptors in guinea pig ileum myenteric S neurons (n = 124) in vitro using electrophysiological methods. ATP or alpha,beta-methylene ATP (alpha,beta-mATP), an agonist at P2X(1) and P2X(3) subunit containing receptors, depolarized 103 neurons (85%). Pyridoxal-phosphate-6-azophenyl-2',4' disulfonic acid (10 micromol L(-1)) blocked ATP- and alpha,beta-mATP-induced depolarizations. ATP-induced depolarizations and fast excitatory postsynaptic potentials (fEPSPs) were reduced by trinitrophenyl-ATP (10 micromol L(-1)), an antagonist that can block P2X(3) receptors. Ivermectin (10 micromol L(-1)), a modulator of P2X(4) and P2X(4/6) receptors, had no effect on alpha,beta-mATP-induced depolarizations. In 58% of neurons, the alpha,beta-mATP induced-depolarization was followed by an afterhyperpolarization (AHP) (P2X-AHP). Under voltage clamp, alpha,beta-mATP induced an inward current followed by an outward current which reversed polarity at 0 and -80 mV respectively. The P2X-AHP was reduced in low extracellular Ca(2+) solutions. Blockers of large, intermediate and small conductance Ca(2+)-activated K(+) channels or voltage-gated K(+) channels did not inhibit the P2X-AHP. Half of the neurons exhibiting the P2X-AHP contained nitric oxide synthase (NOS)-immunoreactivity (ir). In summary, NOS-ir S neurons express P2X(3) subunit containing P2X receptors. P2X receptors couple to activation of a Ca(2+)-activated K(+) conductance that mediates an AHP. As P2X receptors contribute to fEPSPs, the P2X-AHP may modulate S neuron excitability during purinergic synaptic transmission.
Language and music share a number of characteristics. Crucially, both domains depend on both rules and memorized representations. Double dissociations between the neurocognition of rule-governed and memory-based knowledge have been found in language but not music. Here, the neural bases of both of these aspects of music were examined with an event-related potential (ERP) study of note violations in melodies. Rule-only violations consisted of out-of-key deviant notes that violated tonal harmony rules in novel (unfamiliar) melodies. Memory-only violations consisted of in-key deviant notes in familiar well-known melodies; these notes followed musical rules but deviated from the actual melodies. Finally, out-of-key notes in familiar well-known melodies constituted violations of both rules and memory. All three conditions were presented, within-subjects, to healthy young adults, half musicians and half non-musicians. The results revealed a double dissociation, independent of musical training, between rules and memory: both rule violation conditions, but not the memory-only violations, elicited an early, somewhat right-lateralized anterior-central negativity (ERAN), consistent with previous studies of rule violations in music, and analogous to the early left-lateralized anterior negativities elicited by rule violations in language. In contrast, both memory violation conditions, but not the rule-only violation, elicited a posterior negativity that might be characterized as an N400, an ERP component that depends, at least in part, on the processing of representations stored in long-term memory, both in language and in other domains. The results suggest that the neurocognitive rule/memory dissociation extends from language to music, further strengthening the similarities between the two domains.
The basal ganglia and thalamus are involved in processing all physiological behaviors and affected by many diseases. Accurate localization is a crucial issue in neuroimaging, particularly when working with groups of normalized images in a standard stereotaxic space. Here, manual delineation of the central structures (thalamus; nucleus caudatus and accumbens; putamen, pallidum, substantia nigra) was performed on 30 high resolution MRIs of healthy young adults (15 female, median age 31 years) in native space. Protocol inter-rater reliabilities were quantified as structure overlap (similarity indices, SIs). Structural volumes were calculated in native space, and after spatial normalization to stereotaxic space (MNI/ICBM152) and in relation to hemispheric volumes. Spatial extents relative to the anterior commissure (AC) were extracted. The 30 resulting atlases were then used to create probabilistic maps in stereotaxic space. Inter-rater SIs were high at 0.85-0.92 except for the nucleus accumbens. In native space, caudate, nucleus accumbens and putamen were significantly larger on the left, and the globus pallidus larger in males. After normalizing for brain volume, the nucleus accumbens, putamen and thalamus were larger on the left, with the gender difference in the globus pallidus still detectable. Some of these volume differences translated into significantly different distances from the AC. The probabilistic maps showed that overall the central structures' boundaries are relatively unchanged after spatial normalization. We present a comprehensive assessment of thalamic and basal ganglia volumetric and geometric data in both native and stereotaxic spaces. Probabilistic maps in MNI/ICBM152 space will allow accurate localization in group analyses.
Imaging of the mind involves an understanding of the brain and imaging technology. Much progress has been made over the past 400 years in defining the mind and developing tools for its investigation. However, its definition remains elusive and is perhaps one of the greatest scientific challenges. Scientific imaging has dramatically increased in power over the past 2 decades and is now a critical tool for studying the brain, the physical seat of the mind. Whether the mind can be imaged remains to be seen.
Cultures of Schwann cells from neonatal rat sciatic nerves were treated with acetylcholine agonists and the effects on cell proliferation evaluated. (3)[H]-thymidine incorporation shows that acetylcholine (ACh) receptor agonists inhibit cell proliferation, and FACS analysis demonstrates cell-cycle arrest and accumulation of cells in the G1 phase. The use of arecaidine, a selective agonist of muscarinic M2 receptors reveals that this effect depends mainly on M2 receptor activation. The arecaidine dependent-block in G1 is reversible because removal of arecaidine from the culture medium induces progression to the S phase. The block of the G1-S transition is also characterized by modulation of the expression of several cell-cycle markers. Moreover, treatment with ACh receptor agonist causes both a decrease in the PCNA protein levels in Schwann cell nuclei and an increase in p27 and p53 proteins. Finally, immuno-electron microscopy demonstrates that M2 receptors are expressed by Schwann cells in vivo. These results indicate that ACh, by modulating Schwann cell proliferation through M2 receptor activation, might contribute to their progression to a more differentiated phenotype.
This study examined familiality of attentional control and mental flexibility in multiplex attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) families. The authors hypothesized that siblings of ADHD probands, although not behaviorally expressing ADHD, have deficits in these executive functions and that the performance of probands, unaffected siblings, and control participants are on a continuum. Participants (aged 6 to 17) were 25 ADHD probands with a family history of ADHD, their 25 unaffected siblings, and 48 control participants. The unaffected siblings did not differ from the ADHD probands on attentional control or on some measures of mental flexibility. Linear changes in performance across the groups reflected an intermediate position of the unaffected siblings between the probands and control participants. These results suggest that these executive functions may be suitable endophenotypes of ADHD.
This study examined whether the cognitive profile of subjects with mild cognitive impairment (MCI) with vascular disease differs from that of MCI subjects with no vascular disease. Consecutive MCI subjects with vascular disease (n=60) and matched MCI subjects with no vascular disease (n=60) were included in the study and were compared with healthy control subjects (n=60). The neuropsychological assessment comprised tests of speed and attention, episodic memory, visuospatial function, language, and executive function. Control subjects performed significantly better than did both MCI groups on the neuropsychological battery. MCI subjects with no vascular disease performed better overall than did MCI subjects with vascular disease, most clearly on tests of speed and attention, visuospatial function, and executive function. MCI subjects with and without vascular disease exhibited differences, both in terms of overall performance and of cognitive profiles. These differences can be largely explained by deficits in speed and attention and in executive function of the MCI subjects with vascular disease.
Minocycline is a semi-synthetic tetracycline antibiotic that effectively crosses the blood-brain barrier. Minocycline has been reported to have significant neuroprotective effects in models of cerebral ischemia, traumatic brain injury, amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, and Huntington's and Parkinson's diseases. In this study, we demonstrate that minocycline has neuroprotective effects in in vitro and in vivo Alzheimer's disease models. Minocycline was found to attenuate the increases in the phosphorylation of double-stranded RNA-dependent serine/threonine protein kinase, eukaryotic translation initiation factor-2 alpha and caspase 12 activation induced by amyloid beta peptide1-42 treatment in NGF-differentiated PC 12 cells. In addition, increases in the phosphorylation of eukaryotic translation initiation factor-2 alpha were attenuated by administration of minocycline in Tg2576 mice, which harbor mutated human APP695 gene including the Swedish double mutation and amyloid beta peptide(1-42)-infused rats. We found that minocycline administration attenuated deficits in learning and memory in amyloid beta peptide(1-42)-infused rats. Increased phosphorylated state of eukaryotic translation initiation factor-2 alpha is observed in Alzheimer's disease patients' brains and may result in impairment of cognitive functions in Alzheimer's disease patients by decreasing the efficacy of de novo protein synthesis required for synaptic plasticity. On the basis of these results, minocycline may prove to be a good candidate as an effective therapeutic agent for Alzheimer's disease.
The present studies were conducted to determine if increasing central levels of the neurotrophic factor insulin-like growth factor-1 (IGF-I) either directly or indirectly produces anxiolytic and antidepressant-like effects in the mouse. Central levels of IGF-I can be increased directly, by administering IGF-I, or indirectly by blocking the insulin-like growth factor binding proteins (IGFBPs). The IGFBP family has the unique ability to regulate IGF-I levels by sequestering IGF-I into an inactive complex. Therefore, an IGFBP inhibitor increases the level of IGF-I available to bind to its receptor. Intracerebroventricular (icv) administration of the nonspecific IGFBP inhibitor NBI-31772 (10-30 microg) increases the number of punished crossings in the four-plate test and NBI-31772 (0.3-10 microg) increases time spent in the open quadrant of the elevated zero maze (EZM), indicative of anxiolytic-like effects. NBI-31772 (3-30 microg) also decreases immobility time in the tail suspension test, indicative of antidepressant-like effects. Similarly, icv administration of IGF-I (0.1 microg) produces anxiolytic-like effects in the four-plate test and IGF-1 (0.3-1 microg) produces anxiolytic-like effects in the EZM. IGF-I (10 microg) also produces antidepressant-like effects in the tail suspension test. Coadministration of the IGF-I receptor antagonist JB1 with NBI-31772 or IGF-I blocks the anxiolytic-like and antidepressant-like effects of these compounds. These results suggest that NBI-31772 produces behavioral effects by increasing levels of IGF-I that in turn activate the IGF-I receptor. The present studies demonstrate that an IGFBP inhibitor mimics the behavioral effects of IGF-I and that IGFBP inhibition may represent a novel mechanism by which to increase IGF-I to treat depression and anxiety.
Rehabilitation-dependent motor recovery after cerebral ischemia is associated with functional reorganization of residual cortical tissue. Recovery is thought to occur when remaining circuitry surrounding the lesion is &quot;retrained&quot; to assume some of the lost function. This reorganization is in turn supported by synaptic plasticity within cortical circuitry and manipulations that promote plasticity may enhance recovery. Activation of the cAMP/CREB pathway is a key step for experience-dependent neural plasticity. Here we examined the effects of the prototypical phosphodiesterase inhibitor 4 (PDE4) rolipram and a novel PDE inhibitor (HT-0712), known to enhance cAMP/CREB signaling and cognitive function, on restoration of motor skill and cortical function after focal cerebral ischemia. Adult male rats were trained on a skilled reaching task to establish a baseline level of motor performance. Intracortical microstimulation was then used to derive high-resolution maps of forelimb movement representations within the caudal forelimb area of motor cortex contralateral to the trained paw. A focal ischemic infarct was created within approximately 30% of the caudal forelimb area. The effects of administering either rolipram or the novel PDE4 inhibitor HT-0712 during rehabilitation on motor recovery and restoration of movement representations within residual motor cortex were examined. Both compounds significantly enhanced motor recovery and induced an expansion of distal movement representations that extended beyond residual motor cortex. The expansion beyond the initial residual cortex was not observed in vehicle injected controls. Furthermore, the motor recovery seen in the HT-0712 animals was dose dependent. Our results suggest that PDE4 inhibitors during motor rehabilitation facilitate behavioral recovery and cortical reorganization after ischemic insult to levels significantly greater than that observed with rehabilitation alone.

It has been extensively confirmed that fetal ventral mesencephalic cell (VMC) transplantation can ameliorate the symptoms of Parkinson's disease (PD). But there are still several problems to be resolved before the extensive clinical application of this technology. The major limitations are the poor survival of grafted dopamine (DA) neurons and restricted dopaminergic reinnervation of host striatum. Some attempts have been made to solve these problems including use of some trophic factor and co-transplantation with neural/paraneural origins. The purpose of this review is to overview advances of the means improving the survival of grafts and their current limitations.
The ATP-sensitive potassium (K(ATP)) channels which extensively distribute in diverse tissues (e.g. vascular smooth muscle, cardiac cells, and pancreas) are well-established for characteristics like vasodilatation, myocardial protection against ischemia, and insulin secretion. The aim of this review is to get insight into the novel roles of K(ATP) channels in Parkinson's disease (PD), with consideration of the specificities K(ATP) channels in the central nervous system (CNS), such as the control of neuronal excitability, action potential, mitochondrial function and neurotransmitter release.
Klliker-Fuse nucleus (KF) neurons are considered to excite motoneurons in the phrenic nucleus (PhN) during inspiration through its projection to the PhN and/or to the rostral ventral respiratory group (rVRG), which in turn projects to the PhN, probably by releasing glutamate from their axon terminals. Using a combined retrograde tracing and in situ hybridization technique, here we demonstrate that most of the KF neurons projecting to the PhN and rVRG contain vesicular glutamate transporter 2 (VGLUT2) mRNA but not glutamic acid decarboxylase 67 (GAD67) mRNA, providing definitive evidence that these neurons are glutamatergic. Together with previous data by Stornetta et al. [Stornetta, R.L., Sevigny, C.P., Guyenet, P.G., 2003b. Inspiratory argumenting bulbospinal neurons express both glutamatergic and enkephalinergic phenotypes. J. Comp. Neurol. 455, 113-124], indicating that PhN-projecting rVRG neurons are VGLUT2 mRNA-positive, the present results suggest that the glutamatergic KF-PhN pathway and/or the glutamatergic KF-rVRG-PhN pathway transmit excitatory outputs of KF neurons to the PhN neurons during inspiration.
This study examined regional changes of 5-HT(2A and 2C) receptor mRNA expression in the rat brain after chronic administration of clozapine (1.5 mg/kg/day) and haloperidol (2.0 mg/kg/day) for 36 days. 5-HT(2A and 2C) receptor mRNA expression and distributions were detected by in situ hybridization after rats were sacrificed either 2 or 48 h after the last drug administration to examine both immediate and delayed effects following drug withdrawal. Following 2 h of drug withdrawal, it showed that clozapine administration significantly decreased 5-HT(2A) receptor mRNA, predominantly in the nucleus accumbens (65%), hippocampus (80%), lasteral septal nucleus (61%) and striatum (68%) compared to controls, whilst rebound increases were observed in most of these regions 48 h later. In contrast, no change in 5-HT(2A) receptor mRNA expression was found in the haloperidol treated groups either 2 h or 48 h after drug withdrawal. Clozapine also decreased 5-HT(2C) receptor mRNA expression in the posteromedial cortical amygdala (32%) and substantia nigra (35%) 2 h after the last drug administration, while rebound effects were also observed 48 h later. 5-HT(2C) receptor mRNA was only decreased in the substantia nigra at both 2 h (42%) and 48 h (54%) after the last haloperidol administration. Alterations in serotonin receptor expression in limbic system region such as the nucleus accumbens, hippocampus and lateral septal nucleus as well as the striatum may represent the specific regional targets that mediate the clinical effects of antipsychotics via the serotonin system.






The National Hospital for Neurology and Neurosurgery, Queen Square, London is one of the oldest clinical neuroscience hospitals in the world. It was formed from the fusion of itself with the Maida Vale Hospital in 1948. More recently, in 1996, it was incorporated into the University College London Hospitals group. It has had many distinguished neurosurgeons on its staff, whose history from Sir Victor Horsley to the present is described with particular reference to the development of the specialty of neurosurgery. The current neurosurgical staff and future developments of neurosurgery at the hospital are also elucidated.


The Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine has been given in recognition of work in the neurosciences a number of times. Laureates have been awarded for work on both fundamental and more complex nervous system functions. This review is restricted to contributions by 20th century laureates to the understanding of fundamental nervous system function on the cellular level. In 1906, Camillo Golgi and Ramn y Cajal were awarded for their work on the microscopic structure of the nervous system. Their achievement and those of others within this field, coupled with technological progress, gradually allowed more complex physiological studies. In 1932, the prize was awarded to Charles Sherrington and Edgar Adrian for their discoveries of how neurons function. They were followed in 1944 by Herbert Gasser and Joseph Erlanger who uncovered the highly differentiated functions of single nerve fibers. Alan Hodgkin and Andrew Huxley were awarded for the detection of the ionic mechanism of the action potential and its mathematical explanation in 1963. In 1991, Erwin Neher and Bernd Sakmann were awarded for their work on single ion channels. Although the scientists who proved the hypothesis (Fridjof Nansen, Wilhelm His, and August Forel) were never awarded by the Nobel Committee, their studies gave rise to one of the most fundamental questions in 20th century neuroscience: How is information carried from one neuron to another or to an effector cell? This was first solved in the vegetative nervous system, and, in 1936, Henry Dale and Otto Loewi received the prize for their discoveries relating to chemical transmission of nerve impulses. In 1963, John Eccles was awarded the prize for his work on the physiology of synapses. In 1970, Bernhard Katz received the Nobel Prize for the discovery of quantal release. Katz shared the prize with Julius Axelrod and Ulf von Euler, who were central in finding that transmitters are stored in presynaptic vesicles and that the effect in many synapses is terminated by reuptake. This review does not include 21st century laureates, although the prize has already been given to neuroscientists twice this century; Arvid Carlsson, Paul Greengard, and Eric Kandel received the award in 2000 for their discoveries related to signal transduction, and Richard Axel and Linda Buck received the award in 2004 for their work in the field of odorant receptors and the organization of the olfactory system.

Neurotoxic viral proteins released from HIV-infected cells are believed to play a major role in the pathogenesis of the dementia displayed in a significant number of AIDS patients. HIV-1 associated neuropathology severely affects dopaminergic regions of the brain. Growing evidence indicates that HIV-1 neurotoxic proteins, such as Tat may affect the function of the dopamine transmission system. In turn, molecular components of dopamine neurotransmission may participate in a complex network of Tat-induced cell responses which result in neurodegeneration. In this study we investigated whether D1 dopamine receptors are involved in the mechanism of Tat neurotoxicity in primary rat neuronal cell cultures. We found that in rat midbrain cell cultures, which express significant levels of D1 dopamine receptors, the specific D1 antagonist SCH 23390 attenuates the cell death caused by HIV-1 Tat. In rat hippocampal cell cultures, where the expression of D1 receptors is low, SCH 23390 did not change the toxicity of Tat. Thus, the protective effect of SCH 23390 in rat primary neuronal cell cultures is a function of the level of D1 receptor protein expression. Our results provide further evidence for the involvement of the dopaminergic transmission system in the mechanism of HIV-1 Tat neurotoxicity.
One characteristic of organophosphate poisoning is the ability to increase excitability or induce epileptiform activity in nerve cells, but underlying mechanisms are not fully understood. We have previously reported that paraoxon, an organophosphate compound, at submicromolar concentrations effectively suppress Ca(2+) spikes and modulate the activity of snail neurons. This effect was unrelated to acetylcholinesterase (AChE) inhibition but was found to involve the direct or indirect modulation of ion channels [Vatanparast J, Janahmadi M, Asgari AR, Sepehri H, Haeri-Rohani A. Paraoxon suppresses Ca(2+) spike and afterhyperpolarization in snail neurons: relevance to the hyperexcitability induction. Brain Res 2006a;1083(1):110-7]. In the present study, the interaction of paraoxon with cAMP formation on the modulation of Ca(2+) spikes and neuronal excitability was examined. Forskolin, the activators of adenylate cyclase, suppressed afterhyperpolarization (AHP) and increased the activity of snail neurons without any significant effect on the Ca(2+) spike duration. Pretreatment with forskolin, although attenuated the suppressing effect of paraoxon on the duration of Ca(2+) spikes but also potentiated the paraoxon-induced hyperexcitability by enhancing the suppressive effects of paraoxon on AHP. Our findings support the possible involvement of cAMP formation in the paraoxon-induced AHP suppression and neuronal hyperexcitability, although activation of cAMP pathway may attenuates some effects of paraoxon.
Nicotine dependence has a complex multifactorial etiology, underscoring the value of applying a transdisciplinary research model. The important goal of treating nicotine dependence can be realized by transdisciplinary research that translates discoveries in basic neuroscience, pharmacology, genetics, and behavioral science to develop new treatment models that can be translated readily into the clinic and community. As part of this special issue highlighting work at the Transdisciplinary Tobacco Use Research Centers (TTURCs), we describe transdisciplinary research at the University of Pennsylvania TTURC aimed at elucidating the neurobiological and genetic basis of nicotine dependence, the development of novel medications, and the translation of this research to practice.
Individuals with attentional and emotional dysfunctions are most at risk for smoking initiation and subsequent nicotine addiction. This article presents converging findings from human behavioral research, brain imaging, and basic neuroscience on smoking as self-medication for attentional and emotional dysfunctions. Nicotine and other tobacco constituents have significant effects on neural circuitry underlying the regulation of attention and affect. Age, sex, early environment, and exposure to other drugs have been identified as important factors that moderate both the effects of nicotine on brain circuitry and behavior and the risk for smoking initiation. Findings also suggest that the effects of smoking differ depending on whether smoking is used to regulate attention or affect. Individual differences in the reinforcement processes underlying tobacco use have implications for the development of tailored smoking cessation programs and prevention strategies that include early treatment of attentional and emotional dysfunctions.

Over the past 12 years, a number of new anticonvulsant drugs have been introduced for the treatment of childhood epilepsy. The present article reviews these new agents and provides the considerations one should use in selecting an antiepileptic drug for use in children. While in some cases the newer antiepileptic drugs have a more favourable pharmacokinetic and toxicity profile than the older drugs, there appears to be no objective evidence that any currently available antiepileptic drug is superior in terms of therapeutic efficacy.
Endometriosis (ENDO) is a painful disorder defined by extrauteral endometrial growths. It is created in rats by autotransplanting pieces of uterus (which form cysts), or, for shamENDO, fat (no cysts). ENDO induces vaginal hyperalgesia, likely via central sensitization. The severity of this hyperalgesia correlates with estradiol levels during the estrous cycle, suggesting the hyperalgesia is estradiol-modulated. If so, then hyperalgesic severity should track estradiol changes during reproductive senescence (estropause) when estradiol levels initially decrease, then increase. Using psychophysical methods to assess vaginal nociception, we found that the severity of ENDO-induced hyperalgesia paralleled estradiol changes during estropause: hyperalgesia first decreased, then returned. Furthermore, the return occurred regardless of the presence of the cysts (excised in some rats). This finding provides further support for ENDO's likely centrally-mediated effects. Additionally, the results suggest that elimination of estradiol via ovariectomy (OVX) should alleviate ENDO-induced hyperalgesia and estradiol replacement should restore it. However, in healthy and shamENDO rats, OVX produces a vaginal hyperalgesia that is alleviated by estradiol, likely via estradiol's peripheral influences on the vagina. Hence, we tested the hypothesis that OVX in ENDO rats would trigger a different type of vaginal hyperalgesia dependent on the loss of estradiol. We predicted that the opposing influences of estradiol on ENDO- and OVX-induced hyperalgesia would cancel each other. As predicted, OVX had no effect on ENDO-induced hyperalgesia and estradiol replacement alleviated it. These results suggest that, in intact rats, ENDO-induced vaginal hyperalgesia is exacerbated by estradiol, and that different mechanisms underlie ENDO-induced versus OVX-induced vaginal hyperalgesia.
Sex differences in endogenous pain modulation were tested in healthy volunteers (32 men, 30 women). Painful contact heat stimuli were delivered to the right leg alone, and then in combination with various electrical conditioning stimuli delivered to the left forearm. Four conditioning protocols were applied to each subject in separate sessions: mild, non-painful (control); distracting; stressful-yet-non-painful; strongly painful. Thermal stimuli were rated on visual analog scales for pain intensity (INT) and unpleasantness (UNP). Distracting and painful conditioning stimuli significantly reduced heat pain INT and UNP ratings for both sexes, with significantly larger distraction effects on INT ratings for men than women (p=0.004). No sex differences in pain-evoked hypoalgesia were detected (p&gt;0.05). The stress protocol did not consistently reduce heat pain ratings, possibly because the protocol was not sufficiently stressful to activate endogenous modulatory systems. Regression analysis revealed that the magnitude of pain-evoked hypoalgesia was predicted by the perceived distraction (p=0.003) and stress (p=0.04) produced by the painful conditioning stimulation, providing evidence that distraction and stress contribute to pain-evoked hypoalgesia. However, the contribution of stress to pain-evoked hypoalgesia differed by sex (p=0.02), with greater perceived stress associated with greater hypoalgesia in men and the opposite trend in women, suggesting sex differences in the mechanisms underlying pain-evoked hypoalgesia. This study provides indirect evidence that multiple neural mechanisms are involved in endogenous pain modulation and suggests that sex-specific aspects of these systems may contribute to greater pain sensitivity and higher prevalence of many chronic pain conditions among women.
Premature infants are routinely exposed to invasive medical procedures during neonatal intensive care treatment that are largely performed in the absence of anesthetics or analgesics. Data collected to date suggest that exposure to early insult during this time of increased plasticity alters the development of the CNS and influences future pain responses. As previous studies examining the impact of neonatal injury on nociception have been conducted primarily in males, the potential adverse effects on females are not known. Therefore, the present studies were conducted to determine whether neonatal injury differentially impacts male and female sensory thresholds in adulthood. A short lasting inflammatory response was evoked in male and female rats on the day of birth with an injection of carrageenan (CGN; 1% or 2%) into the right hindpaw. Nociceptive thresholds were assessed using a noxious thermal stimulus at both adolescence (P40) and adulthood (P60). A more persistent inflammation was subsequently evoked in adult rats with an intraplantar injection of Complete Freund's adjuvant (CFA). Neonatally injured females exhibited significantly greater hypoalgesia at P60, and displayed enhanced inflammatory hyperalgesia following re-injury in adulthood compared to neonatally injured males and controls. These results demonstrate that the long-term adverse effects of neonatal injury are exacerbated in females, and may contribute to the higher prevalence, severity and duration of pain syndromes noted in women compared to men.
This study examined pseudoaffective responses elicited by vaginal distention in urethane-anesthetized rats, and tested hypotheses that responses would be increased by endometriosis (ENDO) and vary with the estrous cycle. Three groups were studied: ENDO, shamENDO, and Naive. ENDO was induced by autotransplanting small pieces of uterine horn (or, for shamENDO, fat) on mesenteric arteries. Ten weeks later, rats in proestrus or metestrus were anesthetized with urethane. Distendable latex balloons were inserted into the vaginal canal. While an increasing series of vaginal distentions was delivered, changes in electromyographic activity of the external oblique musculature (visceromotor response, VMR) and mean arterial pressure (pressor) responses were simultaneously measured. Vaginal distention produced VMR and pressor responses in all groups. These responses were significantly greater in ENDO than in the other groups, and greater in proestrus than metestrus. Although the overall amount of cystic tissue was greater in proestrous than metestrous rats, there was no correlation between these amounts and VMR or pressor responses. Acute spinalization (T8-T9) and bilateral pelvic, but not hypogastric, neurectomy attenuated both VMR and pressor responses, supporting the hypothesis that vaginal nociception involves suprathoracic spinal processing of information conveyed by the pelvic nerve. These effects on VMR and pressor responses to vaginal distention parallel behavioral escape responses to the same stimuli reported previously. The findings encourage continued use of VMR and pressor responses for further investigation of mechanisms underlying pain associated with ENDO and its potential treatment.
Chronic pain is gender-related, since there is a clear predominance of one sex with respect to the other in most pain syndromes. Gonadal hormones are known to affect the occurrence and incidence of pain. Transsexuals receive cross-sex hormones to develop and maintain somatic characteristics of the opposite sex: male to female transsexuals (MtF) are administered estrogens and anti-androgens, while female to male transsexuals (FtM) are administered androgens. Hence, these subjects represent a model to study the relationship between sex hormones and pain. Questionnaires dealing with sociodemographic data and pain (occurrence, frequency, duration, intensity, location and associated symptoms) were administered to both MtF and FtM transsexuals under hormone treatment for sex reassignment for at least 1 year. Forty-seven MtF and 26 FtM completed the questionnaires. Fourteen of the 47 MtF (29.8%) reported painful conditions, which in 11 subjects were not present before the beginning of hormone treatment. Pain consisted mainly of headaches and breast and musculoskeletal pain. Five subjects suffered from more than one pain condition. Sixteen of the 26 FtM (61.5%) reported pain. In 11 subjects, the pain was present before the beginning of hormone intake, and in 6 of them it improved after testosterone administration. These data suggest that marked changes in sex hormones affect the occurrence of pain in a high percentage of humans but not in all of them. Whether these effects are due to peripheral or central actions of sex steroids is unknown.
While protein kinase C epsilon has been shown to contribute to acute and chronic mechanical hyperalgesia, its upstream signaling pathway has received little attention. Since phospholipase C can signal to PKC epsilon and has been implicated in nociceptor sensitization, we tested if it is upstream of PKC epsilon in mechanisms underlying primary mechanical hyperalgesia. In the rat, the PKC epsilon-dependent mechanical hyperalgesia and hyperalgesic priming (i.e., a form of chronic latent enhanced hyperalgesia) induced by carrageenan were attenuated by a non-selective PLC inhibitor U-73122. A lipid mediator of PLC signaling, l-alpha-lysophosphatidylcholine produced dose-dependent mechanical hyperalgesia and hyperalgesic priming, which was attenuated by EAVSLKPT, a selective PKC epsilon inhibitor. However, U-73122 did not attenuate hyperalgesia induced by psi epsilon RACK, a selective PKC epsilon activator. Antisense to PLC-beta 3 isoform, which was found in small-diameter dorsal root ganglion neurons, also attenuated carrageenan-induced acute and chronic-latent hyperalgesia. These studies support the suggestion that PLC-beta 3 is an important upstream signaling molecule for PKC epsilon-mediated acute and chronic inflammatory pain.
CGRP receptor activation has been implicated in peripheral and central sensitization. The role of spinal CGRP receptors in supraspinal pain processing and higher integrated pain behavior is not known. Here we studied the effect of spinal inhibition of CGRP1 receptors on supraspinally organized vocalizations and activity of amygdala neurons. Our previous studies showed that pain-related audible and ultrasonic vocalizations are modulated by the central nucleus of the amygdala (CeA). Vocalizations in the audible and ultrasonic range and hindlimb withdrawal thresholds were measured in awake adult rats before and 5-6h after induction of arthritis by intra-articular injections of kaolin and carrageenan into one knee. Extracellular single-unit recordings were made from neurons in the latero-capsular division of the CeA (CeLC) in anesthetized rats before and after arthritis induction. CGRP1 receptor antagonists were applied to the lumbar spinal cord intrathecally (5 microl/min) 6h postinduction of arthritis. Spinal administration of peptide (CGRP8-37, 1 microM) and non-peptide (BIBN4096BS, 1 microM) CGRP1 receptor antagonists significantly inhibited the increased responses of CeLC neurons to mechanical stimulation of the arthritic knee but had no effect under normal conditions. In arthritic rats, the antagonists also inhibited the audible and ultrasonic components of vocalizations evoked by noxious stimuli and increased the threshold of hindlimb withdrawal reflexes. The antagonists had no effect on vocalizations and spinal reflexes in normal rats. These data suggest that spinal CGRP1 receptors are not only important for spinal pain mechanisms but also contribute significantly to the transmission of nociceptive information to the amygdala and to higher integrated behavior.
A 14-year-old boy presented with acute paraparesis with sensory and sphincter disturbance. Imaging and neurophysiologic studies were diagnostic for transverse myelitis with acute motor axonal neuropathy. He was treated with both intravenous immunoglobulin and high-dose corticosteroids, and he made a slow and incomplete recovery. Acute motor axonal neuropathy is an unusual variant of Guillain-Barr syndrome. Concomitant transverse myelitis and acute motor axonal neuropathy were not previously reported in childhood, although there are reports of coexisting transverse myelitis and other variants of Guillain-Barr syndrome. Such dual lower motor neuron pathology may be associated with a poorer outcome, and indicates simultaneous central and peripheral immune-mediated injury. There may be a place for combined therapy with immunoglobulin and corticosteroids in patients with transverse myelitis and inflammatory neuropathy.
Data on the growth of the head in the first year of life in children with autism spectrum disorders are inconsistent. We measured head circumference and body length during the first year of life, and determined whether the head grew in proportion to body length. This is a case-control study nested in a population-based screening study of autism spectrum disorders. Longitudinal data for head circumference and body length of 53 children with autism spectrum disorders were compared with those of a control group and population norms, using univariate and multilevel statistical modeling. Growth of body length was accelerated, but growth of head circumference was normal in children with autism spectrum disorders compared with controls in the first year of life. The rate of macrocephaly we detected in the first year of life in our sample, 11.3%, fits within the 95% confidence intervals of macrocephaly rates in previous studies. Our findings suggest that autism spectrum disorder is due to a dysregulation of growth in general, rather than to a dysregulation of neuronal growth in the brain. It is unclear whether this early, disproportionate growth of children with autism spectrum disorders is specific to the disorder, and whether this growth could serve as a biomarker to delineate more homogeneous subtypes of autism spectrum disorders.
We conducted a series of psychophysical experiments to investigate the nature and specificity of behavioral interference between mental and manual rotation. Participants were asked to mentally rotate five different types of visual stimuli--hands, faces, tools, cubes, and natural objects--either clockwise or counterclockwise while they simultaneously manually rotated a wheel in the concordant or discordant direction. Our study clearly revealed object-specific interference between manual and mental rotation. In comparison with a neutral baseline condition without any manual rotation, both manual rotation directions generally impaired the mental rotation of cubes. In contrast, the mental rotation of hands was impaired only by discordant manual rotation. This object- and direction-specific interference between manual and mental rotation proved to be independent of task difficulty. We furthermore found an angular distance effect across different stimulus types.
Variations in dietary constituents such as carbohydrate are known to alter psychostimulant function in brain. Relatively few studies have examined the reinforcing effects of psychostimulants in subjects maintained on high-fat diets. The present experiment compared the rate of acquisition of an operant response for intravenous (i.v.) cocaine infusions (0.2 mg/kg) in rats fed either a chow-pellet diet or a 35.9% (by weight) high-fat diet for 45 days prior to cocaine self-administration testing. Rats maintained on a high-fat diet for 45 days exhibited diminished acquisition of cocaine self-administration, and this effect was not a function of dietary-induced obesity. The results suggest that prolonged exposure to a high-fat diet diminishes the efficacy of cocaine reinforcement.
Pharmacological activation of histamine H3 receptors is known to reduce the release of inflammatory peptides, thereby reducing pain and inflammation, but the site(s) and mechanism(s) of these effects are currently unknown. The present study addressed these questions by examining the effects of the H3 agonist immepip and the H3 antagonist thioperamide on nociceptive behaviors and swelling produced during the rat formalin test. Systemic administration of immepip (5 and 30 mg/kg, s.c.) significantly attenuated formalin-induced flinching but not licking responses during both phases. This attenuation was reversed by either systemic (15 mg/kg, i.p.) or intrathecal (20 or 50 microg) administration of thioperamide. Furthermore, immepip (30 mg/kg, s.c.) significantly inhibited formalin-induced swelling, an action which was completely reversed by systemic (15 mg/kg, i.p.), but not intrathecal (50 microg) thioperamide. Also consistent with this pattern, intrathecal immepip (50 microg) reduced flinching responses, but had no effect on formalin-induced paw swelling. The present findings suggest that activation of H3 receptors located on peripheral and spinal terminals of deep dermal fibers attenuates formalin-induced swelling and flinching, respectively. Pharmacological stimulation of H3 receptors could be an important therapeutic approach for many disorders related to deep dermal or inflammatory pain.
GABA receptor systems have long been implicated in alcoholism, and GABAergic drugs have demonstrated efficacy in altering alcohol intake in some rodent models. The present study was designed to assess the effects of baclofen, muscimol, and gaboxadol (THIP) in a variation on a new mouse model of binge-like ethanol intake. Three hours into their dark cycle, male and female C57BL/6J mice were given access to a 20% unsweetened ethanol solution for 2 h each day, for four days. On day five, mice received varying doses of baclofen, muscimol or THIP and were allowed access to 20% ethanol for 60 min. Baclofen dose-dependently increased binge-like ethanol intake, while both muscimol and THIP reduced ethanol intake. Subsequent studies testing the effect of baclofen, muscimol and THIP on water intake using the same procedure revealed that whereas baclofen had no significant effect, muscimol and THIP both reduced the measure. These results add to the growing literature suggesting a role for GABA receptor systems in the modulation of ethanol intake. However, whereas the role of GABA(B) receptor systems seems selective in the modulation of binge-like ethanol intake, the role for GABA(A) receptor systems appears to also extend to general fluid intake.
Few studies have characterized the subjective effects of N-substituted piperazines, but these drugs show potential for abuse in humans, and have often been associated with MDMA (&quot;ecstasy&quot;) in this regard. The aim of the present study was to test the capacity of N-substituted piperazines to induce a head twitch response, alter locomotor activity, and induce MDMA-like discriminative stimulus effects in mice. Various doses of l-benzylpiperazine (BZP), 1-(3-trifluoromethylphenyl) piperazine (TFMPP), 1-(3-methoxybenzyl) piperazine (m-MeO-BZP) or meta-chlorophenyl piperazine (m-CPP) were administered to mice to determine the effects on these behavioral endpoints. BZP, but not its meta-methoxyl analogue, increased locomotor activity in a dose-dependent manner; the phenylpiperazines and m-MeO-BZP only decreased locomotor activity. TFMPP was the only compound active in the head twitch assay, eliciting a moderate head twitch response which was comparable to that previously observed with the MDMA enantiomers. BZP, TFMPP and m-CPP fully substituted in S(+)-MDMA-trained animals, but did not elicit significant drug lever responding in mice trained to discriminate R(-)-MDMA. m-MeO-BZP partially substituted for both training drugs. The present results suggest that BZP has stimulant-like effects, and that TFMPP has hallucinogen-like effects. Their structural analogues, however, do not share these behavioral profiles. Further studies into the relationships between the N-substituted piperazines and MDMA are warranted.
The mechanism of the antidepressant-like activity of the selective 5-hydroxytryptamine(6) (5-HT(6) receptor antagonist N-[3,5-dichloro-2-(methoxy)phenyl]-4-(methoxy)-3-(1-piperazinyl)benzenesulfonamide (SB-399885) was studied in the forced swim test in rats. SB-399885 administered intraperitoneally at a single dose of 10 mg/kg potently shortened the immobility time in rats. That potential antidepressant-like effect of SB-399885 was not modified in animals with a lesion of the 5-HT system produced by p-chloroamphetamine (p-CA, 2 x 10 mg/kg). The anti-immobility effect of SB-399885 was blocked by the dopamine D(1)- and D(2)-like receptor antagonists SCH 23390 (0.063 mg/kg) and sulpiride (10 mg/kg), respectively, as well as by the alpha(2)-adrenoceptor antagonist idazoxan (4 mg/kg), but it was not changed by the alpha(1)-adrenoceptor antagonist prazosin (1 mg/kg). Neither sulpiride (10 mg/kg) or idazoxan (4 mg/kg) nor SCH-23390 (0.063 mg/kg) administered jointly with SB-399885 (10 mg/kg) noticeably changed the exploratory locomotor activity of rats evaluated by the open field test. The results described in the present paper indicate that the anti-immobility activity of SB-399885 is not connected with 5-HT innervation, and that D(1)- and D(2)-like receptors and alpha(2)-adrenoceptors are involved in this action.
Addiction involves a complex neuropharmacologic behavioural cycle, in which positive reinforcement exerted by the drug and the negative state of withdrawal drive the user to extremes to obtain the drug. Comprehensive studies have established that relapse is the most common outcome of recovery programs treating addictive behaviours. Several types of anticraving medication are available nowadays, such as naltrexone for the treatment of alcoholism, bupropion for nicotine, methadone or buprenorphine for heroin. This review focuses on recent behavioural data providing a rationale for an endocannabinoid mechanism underlying reinstatement of compulsive drug seeking. Studies supporting the contention that reinstatement of extinguished drug self-administration behaviour may be generated by cannabinoid CB1 receptor agonists and attenuated, if not blocked, by CB1 receptor antagonists, are here reviewed. In support to these findings, conditioned place preference studies substantiate the involvement of the endocannabinoid system in recidivism mechanisms by demonstrating that motivation to relapse can be triggered by CB1 receptor activation while blockade of such receptors may prevent reinstatement of place conditioning induced by either drug primings or drug-associated cues. Finally, biochemical studies evaluating changes in endocannabinoid levels, CB1 receptor density and CB1 mRNA expression during re-exposure to drug following extinction are also examined. Taken together, the evidence available has important implications in the understanding and treatment of relapsing episodes in patients undergoing detoxification.
Drug addiction is a chronic relapsing disease in which drug administration becomes the primary stimulus that drives behavior regardless of the adverse consequence that may ensue. As drug use becomes more compulsive, motivation for natural rewards that normally drive behavior decreases. The discontinuation of drug use is associated with somatic signs of withdrawal, dysphoria, anxiety, and anhedonia. These consequences of drug use are thought to contribute to the maintenance of drug use and to the reinstatement of compulsive drug use that occurs during the early phase of abstinence. Even, however, after prolonged periods of abstinence, 80-90% of human addicts relapse to addiction, suggesting that repeated drug use produces enduring changes in brain circuits that subserve incentive motivation and stimulus-response (habit) learning. A major goal of addiction research is the identification of the neural mechanisms by which drugs of abuse produce these effects. This article will review data showing that the dynorphin/kappa-opioid receptor (KOPr) system serves an essential function in opposing alterations in behavior and brain neurochemistry that occur as a consequence of repeated drug use and that aberrant activity of this system may not only contribute to the dysregulation of behavior that characterizes addiction but to individual differences in vulnerability to the pharmacological actions of cocaine and alcohol. We will provide evidence that the repeated administration of cocaine and alcohol up-regulates the dynorphin/KOPr system and that pharmacological treatments that target this system may prove effective in the treatment of drug addiction.

Freud's legacy deriving from his work The project for a scientific psychology (1895) could give a new impetus to the dialogue between psychoanalysis and neurosciences. A rapproachment phase is warrented. Based on the work of psychoanalysts who are themselves neuroscientists (such as Mauro Mancia, Martha Koukkou and Harold Shevrin) or have a long term dialogue with neuroscientists (Arnold Modell), three points of epistemological congruence are described: 1. dualism is no longer a satisfactory solution 2. cautions for the centrality of interpretation (hermeneutics) 3. the self-criticism of neuroscientists.
This review of traumatic brain injury encompasses its impact on society, pathophysiology, and rehabilitative management. Topics include mild traumatic brain injury, outcomes, prognosis, cognitive rehabilitation, behavioral management, and neurologic and medical complications. Emphasis is placed on clinically relevant topics that have had recent developments or have been historically difficult to treat. Neurologic complications discussed include seizure, balance, visual dysfunction, and spasticity. Medical complications discussed include neuroendocrine and pain issues.
Many real-world networks analyzed in modern network theory have a natural spatial element; e.g., the Internet, social networks, neural networks, etc. Yet, aside from a comparatively small number of somewhat specialized and domain-specific studies, the spatial element is mostly ignored and, in particular, its relation to network structure disregarded. In this paper we introduce a model framework to analyze the mediation of network structure by spatial embedding; specifically, we model connectivity as dependent on the distance between network nodes. Our spatially embedded random networks construction is not primarily intended as an accurate model of any specific class of real-world networks, but rather to gain intuition for the effects of spatial embedding on network structure; nevertheless we are able to demonstrate, in a quite general setting, some constraints of spatial embedding on connectivity such as the effects of spatial symmetry, conditions for scale free degree distributions and the existence of small-world spatial networks. We also derive some standard structural statistics for spatially embedded networks and illustrate the application of our model framework with concrete examples.
We have investigated the effect of the phase response curve on the dynamics of oscillators driven by noise in two limit cases that are especially relevant for neuroscience. Using the finite element method to solve the Fokker-Planck equation we have studied (i) the impact of noise on the regularity of the oscillations quantified as the coefficient of variation, (ii) stochastic synchronization of two uncoupled phase oscillators driven by correlated noise, and (iii) their cross-correlation function. We show that, in general, the limit of type II oscillators is more robust to noise and more efficient at synchronizing by correlated noise than type I.
We present a biologically inspired electronic neuron based on a conductance model. The channels are constructed using linearly voltage controlled field effect transistors. A two channel and a three channel circuit is developed. The dynamical behavior of this system is studied, showing for the two channel circuit either class-I or class-II excitability and for the three channel circuit bursting and spike frequency adaptation. Voltage-clamp-type measurements, similar to the ones frequently used in neuroscience, are employed in order to determine the conductance characteristics of the electronic channels. We develop an empirical model based on these measurements that reproduces the different dynamical behaviors of the electronic neuron. We found that post-inhibitory rebound is present in the two channel circuit. Reliability and precision of spike timing is induced in the three channel circuit by injecting noise in the control variable of the slow channel that provides a negative feedback. The circuit is appropriate for the design of large scale electronic neural devices that can be used in mixed electronic-biological systems.
Rats and mice palpate objects with their whiskers to generate tactile sensations. This form of active sensing endows the animals with the capacity for fast and accurate texture discrimination. The present work is aimed at understanding the nature of the underlying cortical signals. We recorded neuronal activity from barrel cortex while rats used their whiskers to discriminate between rough and smooth textures. On whisker contact with either texture, firing rate increased by a factor of two to ten. Average firing rate was significantly higher for rough than for smooth textures, and we therefore propose firing rate as the fundamental coding mechanism. The rat, however, cannot take an average across trials, but must make an immediate decision using the signals generated on each trial. To estimate single-trial signals, we calculated the mutual information between stimulus and firing rate in the time window leading to the rat's observed choice. Activity during the last 75 ms before choice transmitted the most informative signal; in this window, neuronal clusters carried, on average, 0.03 bits of information about the stimulus on trials in which the rat's behavioral response was correct. To understand how cortical activity guides behavior, we examined responses in incorrect trials and found that, in contrast to correct trials, neuronal firing rate was higher for smooth than for rough textures. Analysis of high-speed films suggested that the inappropriate signal on incorrect trials was due, at least in part, to nonoptimal whisker contact. In conclusion, these data suggest that barrel cortex firing rate on each trial leads directly to the animal's judgment of texture.
The ways in which gene transcription is investigated have undergone radical change since the turn of the millennium. Piece-meal approaches focussed upon model genes have increasingly been complemented by genome-wide approaches that allow interrogation of multiple cohorts of genes or even entire genomes. This sea change has been founded upon the increasing availability of whole genome sequences and the attendant evolution of microarray based discovery platforms. Collectively, these approaches are being used to build a global and dynamic perspective of transcription factor occupancy, co-factor recruitment and epigenetic signature. As yet, few of these approaches have been applied to the study of neuronal gene transcription, but this is set to change. Here, I review these key developments and point to their potential application to the study of transcriptional and epigenetic changes in neurons in health and disease.
The identification of neuroprotectin D1 (NPD1), a biosynthetic product of docosahexaenoic acid (DHA), in brain and retina as well as the characterization of its bioactivity, is generating a renewed interest in the functional role and pathophysiological significance of omega-3 fatty acids in the central nervous system. Neurotrophins, particularly pigment epithelium-derived factor (PEDF), induce NPD1 synthesis and its polarized apical secretion, implying paracrine and autocrine bioactivity of this lipid mediator. Also, DHA and PEDF synergistically activate NPD1 synthesis and antiapoptotic protein expression and decreased proapoptotic Bcl-2 protein expression and caspase 3 activation during oxidative stress. In experimental stroke, endogenous NPD1 synthesis was found to be upregulated, and the infusion of the lipid mediator into the brain under these conditions revealed neuroprotective bioactivity of NPD1. The hippocampal CA1 region from Alzheimer's disease (AD) patients (rapidly sampled) shows a major reduction in NPD1. The interplay of DHA-derived neuroprotective signaling aims to counteract proinflammatory, cell-damaging events triggered by multiple, converging cytokine and amyloid peptide factors, as in the case of AD. Generation of NPD1 from DHA thereby appears to redirect cellular fate toward successful preservation of retinal pigment epithelial (RPE)-photoreceptor cell integrity and brain cell aging. The Bcl-2 pro- and antiapoptotic proteins, neurotrophins, and NPD1, lie along a cell fate-regulatory pathway whose component members are highly interactive, and have potential to function cooperatively in cell survival. Agents that stimulate NPD1 biosynthesis, NPD1 analogs, or dietary regimens may be useful as new preventive/therapeutic strategies for neurodegenerative diseases.
Studies with omega-3 polyunsaturated fatty acids (PUFA) have shown that these compounds have therapeutic potential in several indications in neurology and psychiatry. Acute spinal cord injury (SCI) is an event with devastating consequences, and no satisfactory treatment is available at present. The pathogenetic mechanisms associated with SCI include excitotoxicity, increased oxidation and inflammation. We review here our recent studies, which suggest that omega-3 PUFA have significant neuroprotective potential in spinal cord trauma. In a first study, we administered an intravenous bolus of alpha-linolenic acid (LNA) or docosahexaenoic acid (DHA) 30 min after spinal cord hemisection injury in adult rats. The omega-3 PUFA led to increased neuronal and glial survival, and a significantly improved neurological outcome. In subsequent studies, we tested DHA in a more severe compression model of SCI. We also explored a combined acute and chronic treatment regime using DHA. Saline or DHA was administered intravenously 30 min after compression of the spinal cord. After injury, the saline group received a standard control diet, whereas DHA-injected animals received either a control or a DHA-enriched diet for 6 weeks following injury. We assessed locomotor recovery and analysed markers for cell survival and axonal damage, and we also investigated the effects of the treatment on the inflammatory reaction and the oxidative stress that follow SCI. We showed that the acute DHA treatment is neuroprotective after compression SCI, even if the treatment is delayed up to an hour after injury. The DHA injection led to an increased neuronal and glial cell survival, and the effect of the DHA injection was amplified by addition of DHA to the diet. Rats treated with a DHA injection and a DHA-enriched diet performed significantly better at 6 weeks in terms of neurological outcome. The analysis of the tissue after DHA administration showed that the fatty acid significantly reduced lipid peroxidation, protein oxidation and RNA/DNA oxidation, and the induction of COX-2. Parallel studies in a facial nerve injury model in mice also showed pro-regenerative effects of chronic dietary administration of DHA after nerve lesion. These observations suggest that treatment with omega-3 PUFA could represent a promising therapeutic approach in the management of neurological injury.
Lysophosphatidic acid (LPA) and sphingosine 1-phosphate (S1P) regulate a diverse range of mammalian cell processes, largely through engaging multiple G protein-coupled receptors specific for these lysophospholipids. LPA and S1P have been clearly identified to have widespread physiological and pathophysiological actions, controlling events within the reproductive, gastrointestinal, vascular, nervous and immune systems, and also having a prominent role in cancer. Here we review the recent literature showing the additional emerging role for LPA and S1P in the regulation of stem cells and their progenitors. We discuss the role of these lysophospholipids in regulating the proliferation, survival, differentiation and migration of a range of adult and embryonic stem cells and progenitors, and thus are likely to play a substantial role in the maintenance, generation, mobilisation and homing of stem cell and progenitor populations in the body.
Dethiolation experiments of thiolated albumin with thionitrobenzoic acid and thiols (glutathione, cysteine, homocysteine) were carried out to understand the role of albumin in plasma distribution of thiols and disulfide species by thiol/disulfide (SH/SS) exchange reactions. During these experiments we observed that thiolated albumin underwent thiol substitution (Alb-SS-X+RSH&lt;--&gt;Alb-SS-R+XSH) or dethiolation (Alb-SS-X+XSH&lt;--&gt;Alb-SH+XSSX), depending on the different pK(a) values of thiols involved in protein-thiol mixed disulfides (Alb-SS-X). It appeared in these reactions that the compound with lower pK(a) in mixed disulfide was a good leaving group and that the pK(a) differences dictated the kind of reaction (substitution or dethiolation). Thionitrobenzoic acid, bound to albumin by mixed disulfide (Alb-TNB), underwent rapid substitution after thiol addition, forming the corresponding Alb-SS-X (peaks at 0.25-1 min). In turn, Alb-SS-X were dethiolated by the excess nonprotein SH groups because of the lower pK(a) value in mixed disulfide with respect to that of other thiols. Dethiolation of Alb-SS-X was accompanied by formation of XSSX and Alb-SH up to equilibrium levels at 35 min, which were different for each thiol. Structures by molecular simulation of thiolated albumin, carried out for understanding the role of sulfur exposure in mixed disulfides in dethiolation process, evidenced that the sulfur exposure is important for the rate but not for determining the kind of reaction (substitution or dethiolation). Our data underline the contribution of SH/SS exchanges to determine levels of various thiols as reduced and oxidized species in human plasma.
The term &quot;proteome&quot; is used to describe the entire complement of proteins in a given organism or in a system at a given time. Proteome analysis in neuroscience, also called &quot;neuroproteomics&quot; or &quot;neuromics&quot; is in its initial stage, and shows a deficit of studies in the context of brain development. It is the main objective of this review to illustrate the potential of neuroproteomics as a tool to unravel the differentiation of neural stem or progenitor cells to terminally differentiated neurons. Experimental results regarding the rat striatal progenitor model cell line ST14A are presented to illustrate the large rearrangements of the proteome during the differentiation process of neural progenitor cells and their modification by neurotrophic factors like the glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF). Thereby native stem cells and cells transfected with GDNF gene were investigated at the proliferative state and at seven time points up to 72h after induction of differentiation. In addition, the immortalized human fetal midbrain stem cell line ReNcell VM was analyzed in order to detect stem cell differentiation associated changes of the protein profile. This review gives also an outlook on technical improvements and perspectives of application of neural stem cell proteomics.
Parkinson's disease (PD) is a complex, multifactorial neurodegenerative disease affecting about 2% of the population over 65years. Etiopathogenetic mechanisms of PD are not fully understood, although a number of factors contributing to the selective degeneration of substantia nigra neurons have been identified, including mitochondrial dysfunction, proteasomal impairment, oxidative stress, excitotoxicity, and inflammation. Although a global view of the disease at the molecular level can be obtained only from the biochemical analysis of the affected human tissue, difficulties in obtaining human specimens of the affected area have limited substantially the number of reports published to date. Therefore, cellular and animal models of the disease have been developed to investigate single factors contributing to disease pathogenesis, e.g., protein aggregation or altered dopamine homeostasis. In this review, we report how proteomic methodologies have been used so far to investigate cellular and animal models of PD, as well as to compare postmortem specimens of substantia nigra of affected patients to that of control subjects. Proteomic studies concur to highlight the role of a compromised antioxidant defense in PD pathogenesis. The proteomic approach in the investigation of etiopathogenetic mechanisms of PD is still at its beginning, however, the findings reviewed here should serve as a useful foundation to further work.
Asian-American Pacific Islanders (AAPI) are one of the fastest growing minority groups in America. Due to model minority stereotypes and a lack of empirical data, AAPI have been thought to have lower than expected rates of substance use disorders and behavioral addictions. Recent data demonstrated that this conception is not true for all AAPI subgroups. As an example, rates of alcohol use disorders remain close to that of non-AAPI populations, even among AAPI that experience the flushing syndrome thought to protect from alcoholism. Another example of emerging data shows that methamphetamine dependence is particularly high (approximately 10%) among the Pacific Islander population, which is a startling figure. One behavioral addiction gaining more attention among AAPI is pathological gambling. Recent community surveys have shown that pathological gambling rates among AAPI vary but can be strikingly high. Despite the growing body of evidence that shows that addictive disorders in AAPI are significant and are not absent, there remain many barriers to treatment. These barriers include cultural values, individual factors, and practical issues. This article will review current epidemiological rates of addictive disorders among AAPI, will describe the current treatment barriers that face this population, and will provide practical solutions to breaking down these barriers.


Failing to find a tumor in an x-ray scan or a gun in an airport baggage screening can have dire consequences, making it fundamentally important to elucidate the mechanisms that hinder performance in such visual searches. Recent laboratory work has indicated that low target prevalence can lead to disturbingly high miss rates in visual search. Here, however, we demonstrate that misses in low-prevalence searches can be readily abated. When targets are rarely present, observers adapt by responding more quickly, and miss rates are high. Critically, though, these misses are often due to response-execution errors, not perceptual or identification errors: Observers know a target was present, but just respond too quickly. When provided an opportunity to correct their last response, observers can catch their mistakes. Thus, low target prevalence may not be a generalizable cause of high miss rates in visual search.
Past research shows that self-control is limited and becomes depleted after initial exertions. This study examined the neural processes underlying self-control failure by testing whether controlled, effortful behavior impairs subsequent attempts at control by depleting the neural system associated with conflict monitoring. Subjects either watched an emotional movie normally or tried to suppress their emotions while watching the movie; they then completed an ostensibly unrelated Stroop task while electroencephalographic activity was recorded. The error-related negativity (ERN)--a waveform associated with activity in the anterior cingulate--was measured to determine whether prior regulatory exertion constrained the conflict-monitoring system. Compared with subjects in the control condition, those who suppressed their emotions performed worse on the Stroop task, and this deficit was mediated by weaker ERN signals. These results offer a neural account for the self-regulatory-strength model and demonstrate the utility of the social neuroscience approach.





To clarify polarity, topography, and time course of recognition memory ERP old/new effects during matched visual and auditory continuous word recognition tasks, unrestricted temporal PCA jointly analyzed stimulus- and response-locked, reference-free current source densities (31-channel, N=40). Randomization tests provided unbiased statistics for complete factor topographies. Old/new left parietal source effects were complemented by lateral frontocentral sink effects in both modalities, overlapping modality-specific P3 sources 160 ms preresponse. A mid-frontal sink 45 ms postresponse terminated the frontoparietal generator pattern, showed old/new effects consistent with bilateral activation of anterior cingulate and SMA, and preceded similar activity extending posteriorly along the longitudinal fissure. These methods separated old/new stimulus source (preresponse) and response sink (postresponse) effects from motor and modality-specific ERPs.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a progressive neurodegenerative disorder characterized by deposition of extracellular amyloid plaques, formation of intracellular neurofibrillary tangles and neuronal dysfunction in the brain. A growing body of evidence indicates a central role for biometals such as copper in many critical aspects of AD. The amyloid beta (Abeta) peptide and its parental molecule, the amyloid precursor protein (APP) both modulate Cu and Zn metabolism in the brain. Therefore, aberrant changes to APP or Abeta metabolism could potentially alter biometal homoestasis in AD, leading to increased free radical production and neuronal oxidative stress. Modulation of metal bioavailability in the brain has been proposed as a potential therapeutic strategy for treatment of AD patients. The lipid permeable metal complexing agent, clioquinol (CQ), has shown promising results in animal models of AD and in small clinical trials involving AD patients. Moreover, a new generation of metal-ligand based therapeutics is currently under development. Patents now cover the generation of novel metal ligand structures designed to modulate metal binding to Abeta and quench metal-mediated free radical generation. However, the mechanism by which CQ and other metal complexing agents slows cognitive decline in AD animal models and patients is unknown. Increasing evidence suggests that ligand-mediated redistribution of metals at a cellular level in the brain may be important. Further research will be necessary to fully understand the complex pathways associated with efficacious metal-based pharmaceuticals for treatment of AD.

The introduction of deep brain stimulation (DBS) was a historical step forward for the treatment of advanced and medically intractable movement disorders that include Parkinson's disease, dystonias, essential tremor, and Holmes' tremor. DBS is able to modulate the target region electrically in a reversible and adjustable fashion in contrast to an irreversible and destructive lesioning procedure. In the treatment of movement disorders, the potential targets are the thalamic ventral intermediate nucleus (Vim), globus pallidus internus (GPi), subthalamic nucleus (STN), pedunculopontine nucleus (PPN), and thalamic Vo-complex nucleus. With the development of DBS technology and stereotactic neurosurgical techniques, its therapeutic efficacy has been increased while reducing surgical complications. DBS has become an established therapy for disabling movement disorders and is currently being used to treat neuropsychiatric disorders.
Idiopathic normal pressure hydrocephalus (iNPH) is a syndrome characterized by gait disturbance, dementia, and/or urinary incontinence without causative disorders, and ventricular enlargement due to disturbed CSF circulation. The diagnosis of iNPH in the elderly remains a substantial issue, and the treatment is not always adequately provided. Many patients with possibly curable INPH often are misdiagnosed as having AD or vascular dementia. Recognition of INPH in those patients is of great importance. Here, some key clinical and neuroimaging features distinctive from other dementia are discussed. Also reviewed are the results of the recently completed prospective cohort study of iNPH (Study of iNPH on Neurological Improvement: SINPHONI). In SINPHONI, the MRI-based diagnosis (dilated ventricles associated with narrow dorsal subarrachnoid space) and ventriculoperitoneal shunt with Codman Hakim programmable valve shunt system were validated against 1-year post-surgery outcome.
In the last decade, a considerable number of studies have been made on the cognitive processing of music. A patient with pure amusia due to the infarction of anterior portion of bilateral temporal lobes revealed the disturbance of the discrimination of chords. Using positron emission tomography, these regions were activated when musically naive normal subjects listened to the harmony compared to the rhythm of identical music. So, we concluded that anterior temporal portion might participate in the recognition of chords. Several articles reported that the musician's brain was different from nonmusicians' functionally and anatomically. This difference was considered to be caused by the musical training for a long time. Recent studies clarified that the reorganization might occur by musical training for a few months. Melodic intonation therapy (MIT) is a method aimed to improve speech output of aphasic patients, using short melodic phrase with a word. The literatures of mental processing of music suggested that right hemisphere might participate in the expression of music, namely singing and playing instrumentals. So, it was supposed that MIT utilized the compensational function of right hemisphere for damaged left hemisphere. We also reported that mental singing improved the gait disturbance of patients with Parkinson's disease. Music therapy is changing from a social science model based on the individual experiences to a neuroscience-guided model based on brain function and cognitive processing of the perception and expression of music.
Classification of aphasia is divided according to clinical symptoms, anatomical analysis or neural network. Research of the past 20 years in basic neuroscience and aphasia rehabilitation has created opportunities for fundamentally different approaches to aphasia therapy, based on applied neurobiology. The idea of treating aphasia with neurotranmitter stimulating agents has historical roots dating to ancient times. Since Albert reported that bromocriptine may improve language deficits in patients with nonfluent aphasia, pharmacotherapy for aphasia is noted. However its effect is contoversial. We hypothesize improvement in naming ability by 1) selectively increasing dopamine to enhance activation and initiation of verbal output, and 2) selectively increasing cholinergic activity to enhance verbal memory. We also hypothesize that the balance of dopaminergic system and cholinergic system controls language function. In most of our recent studies on the pharmacotherapy of aphasia, we made the following observations: 1) we found improvement in either verbal fluency or naming or both; 2) improvement tended be most prominent in patients with mild to moderate severity of aphasia, rather than in patients with severe aphasia; 3) improvement tended to be correlated with reduction in perseveration; 4) improvement was found with dopaminergic, cholinergic, and serotonergic agents.
Polyneuropathy is a common disorder with heterogenic clinical presentation and many possible etiologies. This review presents diagnostic clues for physicians and neurologists without specialist competence in neuromuscular disorders. Diagnostic procedure of polyneuropathy include cerebrospinal fluid examination, electrophysiological examinations, and sural nerve biopsy. Although pathologic examinations using biopsied sural nerve rarely reach specific diagnosis and are recently seem to be underestimated, careful scrutiny of the morphology of each myelinated nerve fiber as well as evaluation of clinical/pathological correlation may be powerful tools to reach proper diagnosis. Polyneuropathy presents symmetric motor and sensory impairment with &quot;gloves and stockings&quot; distribution. This characteristic clinical presentation is based on two different types of pathophysiology. One, neuronal malfunction which leads to inability in keeping homeostasis of axonal endings; the other, the &quot;sum&quot; of scattered focal lesions throughout the peripheral nervous system: longer axons have more chances to get local injuries. The former pathomechanism is shared by most of hereditary neuropathies and toxic neuropathies, and the latter includes inflammatory neuropathies as well as some vasculitic neuropathy, and possibly, diabetic neuropathy. Hence, we should keep in mind that the exact lesion site does not necessarily present at sural nerve, especially in inflammatory neuropathies and vasculitic neuropathies.


The aim of this study was to examine whether glutamatergic inputs onto GABA interneurons via the kainate receptor in the anterior cingulate cortex may be altered in schizophrenia and bipolar disorder. Hence, in a cohort of 60 post-mortem human brains from schizophrenia, bipolar disorder, and normal control subjects, we simultaneously labeled the mRNA for the GluR5 or GluR6 subunit of the kainate receptor with [(35)S] and the mRNA for the 67 kD isoform of the GABA synthesizing enzyme glutamic acid decarboxylase (GAD)(67) with digoxigenin using an immunoperoxidase method. The density of the GAD(67) mRNA-containing neurons that co-expressed GluR5 mRNA was decreased by 43% and 40% in layer 2 of the anterior cingulate cortex in schizophrenia and bipolar disorder, respectively. In contrast, the density of the GAD(67) mRNA-containing cells that expressed GluR6 mRNA was unaltered in either condition. Furthermore, the amount of GluR5 or GluR6 mRNA in the GAD(67) mRNA-expressing cells that contained a detectable level of these transcripts was also unchanged. Finally, the density of cells that did not contain GAD(67) mRNA, which presumably included all pyramidal neurons, but expressed the mRNA for the GluR5 or GluR6 subunit was not altered. Thus, glutamatergic modulation of inhibitory interneurons, but not pyramidal neurons, via kainate receptors containing the GluR5 subunit appears to be selectively altered in the anterior cingulate cortex in schizophrenia and bipolar disorder.

This article outlines the surgical technique and the indications for the lateral transmaxillosphenoidal approach, which is illustrated by an index case. A 27-year-old woman presented with a trigeminal sensory deficit caused by a dermoid tumor occupying the lateral compartment of her right cavernous sinus. A lateral transmaxillosphenoidal approach was performed, and the tumor was removed lateral to the intracavernous carotid artery (ICA) and medial to intracavernous cranial nerves. The lateral transmaxillosphenoidal approach is similar to the transmaxillosphenoidal approach used for the removal of pituitary adenomas invading the medial compartment of the cavernous sinus. By opening the lateral wall of the sphenoid sinus just above and laterally to the carotid artery, tumor can be removed medial to the intracavernous cranial nerves and lateral to the ICA.


The molecular mechanisms controlling DNA-damage-induced apoptosis of human embryonic stem cells (hESC) are poorly understood. Here we investigate the role of p53 in etoposide-induced apoptosis. We show that p53 is constitutively expressed at high levels in the cytoplasm of hESC. Etoposide treatment results in a rapid and extensive induction of apoptosis and leads to a further increase in p53 and PUMA expression as well as Bax processing. p53 both translocates to the nucleus and associates with the mitochondria, accompanied by colocalization of Bax with Mcl1. hESC stably transduced with p53 shRNA display 80% reduction of endogenous p53 and exhibit an 80% reduction in etoposide-induced apoptosis accompanied by constitutive downregulation of Bax and an attenuated upregulation of PUMA. Our data further show that undifferentiated hESC that express Oct4 are much more sensitive to etoposide-induced apoptosis than their more differentiated progeny. Our study demonstrates that p53 is required for etoposide-induced apoptosis of hESC and reveals, at least in part, the molecular mechanism of DNA-damage-induced apoptosis in hESC.




Animal models of human African trypanosomiasis, also known as sleeping sickness, have been used for many years both to investigate disease pathogenesis and to test novel drug therapies. Model systems used have included mice, rats and non-human primates such as monkeys. Whilst such animal models have some definite but unavoidable limitations, it is argued that these are outweighed by their advantages. The latter include the ability to investigate disease pathogenesis mechanistically and the mechanisms of trypanosome traversal of the blood-brain barrier, as well as the identification of new potential drug targets and staging biomarkers, new drug therapies and combinations, and potential drug toxicity.
In many regions of the nervous system, signals produced by target cells and surrounding glia or in response to in jury are received at axon terminals and then retrogradely propagated to cell bodies where they regulate gene transcription and other cellular processes required for development and adult function. The cellular and molecular mechanisms of axonal retrograde signaling in neurons have traditionally been studied in the context of survival signals provided by target-derived neurotrophic factors, in which signaling endosomes containing endocytosed ligand-receptor complexes and downstream effectors are retrogradely tra nsported by dynein motors. In recent years, this notion has been refined and additional mechanisms for long-range retrograde signaling in axons have been described. This article discusses some outstanding issues in the signaling endosome hypothesis as well as recent findings suggesting the existence of a variety of mechanisms for the retrograde propagation of signals in the nervous system.
A recent report by Wannig et al. demonstrated the effects of selectively attending to individual surfaces in transparent motion patterns on neurons in the middle temporal area of awake, behaving monkeys. The study illustrates a highly adaptive and flexible attentional modulation of sensory responses.
Intertemporal choices are decisions with consequences that play out over time. These choices range from the prosaic--how much food to eat at a meal--to life-changing decisions about education, marriage, fertility, health behaviors and savings. Intertemporal preferences also affect policy debates about long-run challenges, such as global warming. Historically, it was assumed that delayed rewards were discounted at a constant rate over time. Recent theoretical and empirical advances from economic, psychological and neuroscience perspectives, however, have revealed a more complex account of how individuals make intertemporal decisions. We review and integrate these advances. We emphasize three different, occasionally competing, mechanisms that are implemented in the brain: representation, anticipation and self-control.
Mood disorders, including major depressive disorder and bipolar disorder, are influenced by both genetic and environmental factors. Hypotheses about the neurobiology of mood disorders have been postulated and putatively associated genes identified. Recently, the immune-related gene encoding purinergic receptor P2X, ligand-gated ion channel, 7 (P2RX7) has been genetically associated with major depressive disorder and bipolar disorder. New candidate genes and emerging gene networks and pathways involved in the aetiology of mood disorders point to a major role for neuronal survival and the adaptive immune systems.
Conventional functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) is a blunt tool for studying the nervous system because it measures neural activity only indirectly, by way of hemodynamics and neurovascular coupling. Several alternative, nonhemodynamic functional imaging methods are now being explored. The methods are designed to offer better resolution and neuronal specificity than hemodynamic imaging and, in some cases, might report signals from specific molecules or cell populations. Much progress has concentrated in three areas: diffusion-weighted functional imaging; detection of neuronal electromagnetic fields; and molecular imaging of neural metabolites and signaling species. Here, we review recent developments in these areas. We consider unique advantages and disadvantages of 'bloodless fMRI' approaches, as well as their future prospects as experimental tools in cognitive and systems neuroscience.
Axons, their ensheathing myelin and supporting glia that make up the white matter in the mammalian brain and spinal cord are fundamentally important for the normal operation of the central nervous system. Prevalent human disorders such as stroke, vascular dementia, multiple sclerosis, brain and spinal cord trauma, HIV-associated dementia, periventricular leukomalacia of premature infants, and seemingly traditional 'gray matter disorders' such as Alzheimer's disease and schizophrenia, exhibit white matter pathology that contributes to morbidity and mortality. N-Methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptors have been shown to have an important role in mediating Ca2+-dependent injury of oligodendrocytes and the myelin sheath; newly recognized family members of the NMDA receptor, known as NR3 subunits, seem to be involved. Recently developed uncompetitive NMDA channel blockers such as memantine hold therapeutic promise because these agents are well tolerated clinically and might prove to be effective at protecting certain white matter elements from a variety of insults.
The lightness of a visual surface is its perceived achromatic reflectance [Adelson, E. H., (2000). Lightness perception and lightness illusions. In M. Gazzaniga (Ed.), The new cognitive neuroscience (2nd ed.) (pp. 339-351) Berlin: Springer; Gilchrist, A. (1999). Lightness perception. In R. W. F. Keil (Ed.), MIT encyclopedia of cognitive science (pp. 471-472). Cambridge: MIT press]. Lightness ranges from black, through various shades of grey, up to white. Anderson and Winawer [Anderson, B., Winawer, J. (2005). Image segmentation and lightness perception. Nature, 434, 79-83] suggested that perceptual decomposition of image luminance into multiple sources in different layers (e.g., perceptual transparency) is critical to the their lightness illusions. However, I show that simple perceptual occlusion evoked by T-junctions will work as well, suggesting that perceptual scission of luminance into multiple layers is unnecessary for such effects. I argue that the lightness illusions presented by Anderson and Winawer involve fundamentally different mechanisms than previously studied lightness illusions, including those involving perceptual transparency.
We localized calbindin D28K-immunoreactive (IR) neurons in the superior colliculus (SC) of the dog and studied the distribution and effect of enucleation on the distribution of this protein. We also compared this labeling to that of GABA. Calbindin D28K was localized with antibody immunocytochemistry. Calbindin D28K-IR neurons formed three laminar tiers in the SC, one within the lower superficial gray layer (SGL), the second within the upper intermediate gray layers (IGL), and the third within the deep gray layer (DGL). The third tier was not very distinctive when compared with the other two tiers. Calbindin D28K-IR neurons in the SC varied dramatically in morphology and size, and included round/oval, vertical fusiform, stellate, pyriform, and horizontal neurons. Neurons with varicose dendrite were also labeled in the IGL. Enucleation appeared to have no effect on the distribution of calbindin D28K-IR neurons in the contralateral SC. Two-color immunofluorescence revealed that a small percentage (11.20%) of calbindin D28K-IR neurons co-localized with GABA. The current results demonstrate that the patterned distribution of calbindin D28K-IR neurons in the intermediate and deep SC is comparable with other animals, but that the distribution of this protein in the superficial SC is strikingly different from that in previously studied animals. The results also suggest that retinal projection may not control the activity of the expression of calbindin D28K in the dog SC. These results will not only provide valuable knowledge of the basic neurochemical architecture of the dog visual system, but also provide clues for the understanding of the similarities and differences among species.
The pathological mechanisms of various CNS diseases are closely related to glutamate neuronal excitotoxicity following NMDA receptor activation. To verify this relationship, in vivo microdialysis in the hippocampus of rats was applied to ESR spectroscopy during NMDA perfusion. Microdialysis co-perfusion of 0.1 mM NMDA dissolved in 150 mM POBN for 60 min revealed six-line carbon-centered radical ESR spectra. The hfc values were aN=15.7 G and aHbeta=2.5 G, corresponding to the values produced from the generation of lipid radicals. The antioxidant activity during the freely moving state was examined utilizing the principle that systemically applied nitroxide radicals are reduced and lose their paramagnetism by antioxidant activity in the brain. ESR analysis of sequential changes in the signal amplitude of nitroxide radicals in both the NMDA group and the control group revealed an exponential decay. The half-life of the nitroxide radical was significantly longer in the NMDA group than in the control group. The homeostasis of a steady redox balance was destroyed by acute NMDA infusion, which resulted in the generation of lipid radicals and the reduction of antioxidant ability in the hippocampus. The redox imbalance induced by the activation of NMDA-R was recovered by the inhibition of PLA2 and NOS. These results indicated that NMDA-R activation caused the shift to oxidized condition of the redox state, which subsequently leads to neuron death in the hippocampus in the model of glutamate-associated neuronal disease.
Removal of the medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC) of the rat during the initial 7-12 days of life results in spontaneous filling of lesion cavity that is accompanied by recovery of cognitive and motor functions. To date, it remains uncertain whether tissue filling the lesion cavity is actually supporting the functional improvement. In the present study, we examined whether spontaneous neuronal activity could be recorded in adulthood from the tissue that fills the lesion cavity. We recorded EEG and multiunit activity in adulthood from the mPFC and the motor cortex of rats that had received neonatal mPFC lesions on post-natal day 10 (P10) or their non-lesioned littermate controls. We found similarities in both the firing pattern and firing rate of cells from the filled-in region compared to that of controls, although the power associated with peak frequencies in the delta, alpha, and beta range in the EEG recorded from the filled-in region was lower compared to controls. Overall, our results suggest that the cells found in the lesion cavity have similar neurophysiological properties to those found in normal tissue and thus should be capable of at least partially supporting the observed recovery of function.
The big brown bats, Eptesicus fuscus, emit ultrasonic signals and analyze the returning echoes in multi-parametric domains to extract target features. The variation of different pulse parameters during hunting predicts that analysis of an echo parameter by bats is inevitably affected by other co-varying echo parameters. In this study, we presented data to show that the bat inferior collicular (IC) neurons have maximal amplitude sensitivity at the best duration (BD). A family of rate-amplitude function (RAF) of each IC neuron is plotted with the BD and non-BD sound pulses. The RAF plotted with BD pulses has sharper slope (SL) and smaller dynamic range (DR) than the RAF plotted with non-BD pulses has. All RAFs can be described as monotonic, saturated or non-monotonic. IC neurons with monotonic RAF are mostly recorded at deeper IC and they have the largest average BD, best amplitude (BA) and DR. Conversely, IC neurons with non-monotonic RAF are mostly recorded at upper IC and they have the smallest average BD, BA and DR. Low best frequency (BF) neurons at upper IC have shorter BD, smaller BA and DR than high BF neurons at deeper IC have. These data suggest that IC neurons that tune to an echo duration also have the greatest sensitivity to echo amplitude. These data also suggest that sensitivity in frequency, duration and amplitude appears to be orderly represented along the dorso-ventral axis of the IC.
Tau is an axonal microtubule-associated protein involved in microtubule assembly and stabilization. Mutations in Tau cause frontotemporal dementia and parkinsonism linked to chromosome 17 (FTDP-17), and tau aggregates are present in Alzheimer's disease and other tauopathies. The mechanisms leading from tau dysfunction to neurodegeneration are still debated. The dynein-activator complex dynactin has an essential role in axonal transport and mutations in its gene are associated with lower motor neuron disease. We show here for the first time that the N-terminal projection domain of tau binds to the C-terminus of the p150 subunit of the dynactin complex. Tau and dynactin show extensive colocalization, and the attachment of the dynactin complex to microtubules is enhanced by tau. Mutations of a conserved arginine residue in the N-terminus of tau, found in patients with FTDP-17, affect its binding to dynactin, which is abnormally distributed in the retinal ganglion cell axons of transgenic mice expressing human tau with a mutation in the microtubule-binding domain. These findings, which suggest a direct involvement of tau in axonal transport, have implications for understanding the pathogenesis of tauopathies.
Protein interacting with c kinase 1 (PICK1) regulates the trafficking of receptors and ion-channels such as AMPA receptors. Traditionally, the PICK1 PDZ domain is regarded as an adaptor capable of binding to receptors trafficked by PICK1, and the lipid-binding BAR domain functions to tether PICK1 directly to membranes. Here, we show that the PICK1 PDZ domain can directly interact with lipid membranes. The PDZ domain and lipid membrane interaction is mediated by both a polybasic amino-acid cluster and a conserved 'Cys-Pro-Cys' motif located away from the peptide ligand-binding groove. Disruption of the PDZ and lipid membrane interaction totally abolished synaptic targeting of PICK1. Although mutation of the CPC motif did not affect the interaction between PICK1 and AMPA receptors, the mutant PICK1 was unable to cluster the GluR2 subunit of the receptor. In neurons, PICK1 containing the same mutation displayed dramatically compromised capacity in the trafficking of AMPA receptors. Taken together, our findings not only uncovered the novel lipid membrane-binding property of the PICK1 PDZ domain, but also provided direct evidence supporting the functional relevance of the PDZ-lipid interaction.
Here we demonstrate that the widely abused drug methylenedioxymethamphetamine (MDMA; &quot;Ecstasy&quot;) suppresses innate interferon (IFN)-gamma production in mice following an in vivo lipopolysaccharide (LPS) challenge. IFN-gamma signalling was also impaired by MDMA, as indicated by reduced phosphorylation of signal transducer and activator of transcription-1 (STAT1) and reduced expression of interferon-gamma inducible protein 10 (IP-10/CXCL10); a chemokine induced by IFN-gamma. MDMA also suppressed production of interleukin (IL)-12 and IL-15; two cytokines that induce IFN-gamma production. Our results demonstrate that in vitro exposure to MDMA does not mimic the suppression of innate IFN-gamma observed in vivo, indicating that observed suppression is most likely due to the release of endogenous immunomodulatory substances following drug administration. In this regard, we previously demonstrated that MDMA increases production of the anti-inflammatory cytokine IL-10 in vivo, an event that is mediated by beta-adrenoceptor activation on immune cells. Considering that increased IL-10 production precedes suppression of IFN-gamma induced by MDMA, and also considering that IL-10 can inhibit IL-12 and IFN-gamma production, we examined the possibility that IL-10 was an essential mediator of the suppressive effect of MDMA on the IFN-gamma response. By pre-treating mice with an anti-IL-10 receptor antibody we demonstrate that IL-10 is a critical mediator of MDMA-induced suppression of IFN- gamma production and signalling. Consistent with a role for beta-adrenoceptor activation in the immunosuppressive actions of MDMA, pre-treatment with the beta-adrenoceptor antagonist nadolol blocked the MDMA-induced increase in IL-10, and also inhibited the suppressive action of MDMA on the innate IFN-gamma response. The potential clinical significance of these findings for MDMA users is discussed.
Recent research in cell signaling has shown that the assembly of G protein coupled receptors into signaling complexes or signalplexes represents the primary mechanism by which receptor-mediated signaling is established and maintained. In this review, we summarize the current state of knowledge regarding protein interactions that comprise the dopamine D2 receptor signalplex within the brain. Studies based on conventional and advanced two-hybrid methodologies, as well as bioinformatic and computational analysis of sequence information from completed genomes have demonstrated interactions between dopamine D2 receptors and a cohort of dopamine receptor interacting proteins (DRIPs). DRIP interactions appear to regulate key aspects of receptor function including the signaling and membrane trafficking of dopamine D2 receptors. Disruptions or modifications of the signalplex, using membrane permeant competing peptide or dominant negative approaches, may represent promising new strategies for the selective targeting of the dopamine D2 receptor in cells and in native tissue. DRIP interactions provide a novel platform for understanding the mechanisms of dopamine receptor signaling, and for the potential development of novel treatments for brain disease.
Different phases of motor skill learning appear to involve different physiological processes, with long-term potentiation (LTP) occurring at existing synapses in early and cortical reorganization involving synaptogenesis in later phases. Here, we test the evolution of skill learning-dependent changes in motor plasticity and excitability in six subjects trained to perform rapid thumb abductions over 5 d. Plasticity was examined using paired-associative stimulation (PAS) of the median nerve and motor cortex to induce LTP-like &quot;PAS given with an interstimulus interval of 25 ms (PAS25)&quot; or long-term depression (LTD)-like &quot;PAS given with an interstimulus interval of 10 ms (PAS10)&quot; plasticity. Excitability was tested by measuring recruitment of motor-evoked-potentials &quot;input-output (IO) curve&quot; and of short-latency intracortical inhibition (SICI curve), and sensorimotor organization (SMO). Task performance improved continuously over 5 d. After practice on day 1, the PAS25 effect reversed from facilitation to inhibition whereas the slope of the IO curve increased and the level of SICI decreased. These effects on IO curve and SICI were still present or even enhanced before the last practice on day 5, and were not changed by it. The effect of proprioceptive input from the trained muscle on SMO was also strengthened before practice on day 5. In contrast, PAS-induced plasticity was not influenced by motor practice on day 5, and had returned to prepractice values. The interference with PAS-induced plasticity suggests that the initial performance improvement relies on increasing the efficacy of existing synaptic connections. However, the long-lasting changes in the IO curve, SICI curve, and SMO suggest that continued practice enhances performance by changing Motor cortical organization. We hypothesize that new synaptic connections might have formed that allow LTP/LTD-susceptibility to be restored without reducing synaptic strength and performance skill.
The hair cells in the mammalian cochlea are of two distinct types. Inner hair cells are responsible for transducing mechanical stimuli into electrical responses, which they forward to the brain through a copious afferent innervation. Outer hair cells, which are thought to mediate the active process that sensitizes and tunes the cochlea, possess a negligible afferent innervation. For every inner hair cell, there are approximately three outer hair cells, so only one-quarter of the hair cells directly deliver information to the CNS. Although this is a surprising feature for a sensory system, the occurrence of a similar innervation pattern in birds and crocodilians suggests that the arrangement has an adaptive value. Using a lizard with highly developed hearing, the tokay gecko, we demonstrate in the present study that the same principle operates in a third major group of terrestrial animals. We propose that the differentiation of hair cells into signaling and amplifying classes reflects incompatible strategies for the optimization of mechanoelectrical transduction and of an active process based on active hair-bundle motility.
After visual target stimuli presented infrequently at a covertly attended location, quicker speeded button presses immediately followed a larger positive (P3f) ramp in averaged electroencephalographic (EEG) recordings from the forehead. We show this peak in the mean response time locked to the button press to be principally composed of triphasic, primarily low-theta band (4.5 Hz) complexes preceding but only partially phase-locked to the button press, with larger complexes preceding quicker motor responses. For 10 of 15 subjects, independent component analysis of the unaveraged 31-channel data identified a temporally independent medial frontal EEG process contributing to these phenomena. Low-resolution tomographic modeling localized related components of two 253-channel data sets to medial frontal polar cortex (BA32/10). The far-frontal low-theta complexes and concomitant mean P3f positivity may index cortical activity induced by paralimbic processes involved in disinhibiting impulsive motor responses to rewarding or goal-fulfilling stimuli or events.
The neurobiological investigation of the placebo effect has shown that placebos can activate the endogenous opioid systems in some conditions. So far, the impact of this finding has been within the context of the clinical setting. Here we present an experiment that simulates a sport competition, a situation in which opioids are considered to be illegal drugs. After repeated administrations of morphine in the precompetition training phase, its replacement with a placebo on the day of competition induced an opioid-mediated increase of pain endurance and physical performance, although no illegal drug was administered. The placebo analgesic responses were obtained after two morphine administrations that were separated as long as 1 week from each other. These long time intervals indicate that the pharmacological conditioning procedure has long-lasting effects and that opioid-mediated placebo responses may have practical implications and applications. For example, in the context of the present sport simulation, athletes can be preconditioned with morphine and then a placebo can be given just before competition, thus avoiding administration of the illegal drug on the competition day. However, these morphine-like effects of placebos raise the important question whether opioid-mediated placebo responses are ethically acceptable in sport competitions or whether they have to be considered a doping procedure in all respects.
Cells transcribe thousands of RNAs that do not appear to encode proteins. The neuronal functions of these noncoding RNAs (ncRNAs) are for the most part not known, but specific ncRNAs have been shown to regulate dendritic spine development, neuronal fate specification and differentiation, and synaptic protein synthesis. ncRNAs have been implicated in a number of neuronal diseases including Tourette's syndrome and Fragile X syndrome. Future studies will likely identify additional neuronal functions for ncRNAs as well as roles for these molecules in other neuropsychiatric and neurodevelopmental disorders.
The ability to tackle analysis of the brain at multiple levels simultaneously is emerging from rapid methodological developments. The classical research strategies of &quot;measure,&quot; &quot;model,&quot; and &quot;make&quot; are being applied to the exploration of nervous system function. These include novel conceptual and theoretical approaches, creative use of mathematical modeling, and attempts to build brain-like devices and systems, as well as other developments including instrumentation and statistical modeling (not covered here). Increasingly, these efforts require teams of scientists from a variety of traditional scientific disciplines to work together. The potential of such efforts for understanding directed motor movement, emergence of cognitive function from neuronal activity, and development of neuromimetic computers are described by a team that includes individuals experienced in behavior and neuroscience, mathematics, and engineering. Funding agencies, including the National Science Foundation, explore the potential of these changing frontiers of research for developing research policies and long-term planning.
Psychopathological violence in criminals and intense aggression in fruit flies and rodents are studied with novel behavioral, neurobiological, and genetic approaches that characterize the escalation from adaptive aggression to violence. One goal is to delineate the type of aggressive behavior and its escalation with greater precision; second, the prefrontal cortex (PFC) and brainstem structures emerge as pivotal nodes in the limbic circuitry mediating escalated aggressive behavior. The neurochemical and molecular work focuses on the genes that enable invertebrate aggression in males and females and genes that are expressed or suppressed as a result of aggressive experiences in mammals. The fruitless gene, immediate early genes in discrete serotonin neurons, or sex chromosome genes identify sexually differentiated mechanisms for escalated aggression. Male, but not female, fruit flies establish hierarchical relationships in fights and learn from previous fighting experiences. By manipulating either the fruitless or transformer genes in the brains of male or female flies, patterns of aggression can be switched with males using female patterns and vice versa. Work with Sts or Sry genes suggests so far that other genes on the X chromosomes may have a more critical role in female mouse aggression. New data from feral rats point to the regulatory influences on mesocortical serotonin circuits in highly aggressive animals via feedback to autoreceptors and via GABAergic and glutamatergic inputs. Imaging data lead to the hypothesis that antisocial, violent, and psychopathic behavior may in part be attributable to impairments in some of the brain structures (dorsal and ventral PFC, amygdala, and angular gyrus) subserving moral cognition and emotion.
This symposium aims at summarizing some of the scientific bases for current or planned clinical trials in patients with spinal cord injury (SCI). It stems from the interactions of four researchers involved in basic and clinical research who presented their work at a dedicated Symposium of the Society for Neuroscience in San Diego. After SCI, primary and secondary damage occurs and several endogenous processes are triggered that may foster or hinder axonal reconnection from supralesional structures. Studies in animals show that some of these processes can be enhanced or decreased by exogenous interventions using drugs to diminish repulsive barriers (anti-Nogo, anti-Rho) that prevent regeneration and/or sprouting of axons. Cell grafts are also envisaged to enhance beneficial immunological mechanisms (autologous macrophages, vaccines) or remyelinate axons (oligodendrocytes derived from stem cells). Some of these treatments could be planned concurrently with neurosurgical approaches that are themselves beneficial to decrease secondary damage (e.g., decompression/reconstructive spinal surgery). Finally, rehabilitative approaches based on the presence of functional networks (i.e., central pattern generator) below the lesion combined with the above neurobiological approaches may produce significant functional recovery of some sensorimotor functions, such as locomotion, by ensuring an optimal function of endogenous spinal networks and establishing new dynamic interactions with supralesional structures. More work is needed on all fronts, but already the results offer great hope for functional recovery after SCI based on sound basic and clinical neuroscience research.

Primary lateral sclerosis (PLS), the upper motor neurone variant of motor neurone disease, is characterized by progressive spinal or bulbar spasticity with minimal motor weakness. Rarely, PLS may present with clinical features resembling parkinsonism resulting in occasional misdiagnosis as one of the atypical parkinsonian syndromes. Here we describe five patients initially referred with a diagnosis of levodopa-unresponsive atypical parkinsonism (n = 4) or primary progressive multiple sclerosis (n = 1), but subsequently found to have features consistent with PLS instead. Onset age varied from 49 to 67 years. Unilateral limb slowness or clumsiness was the initial complaint in four, and bulbar symptoms in one. Repeated finger/foot tapping was slow in all five, but without fatiguing or decrement. Spasticity with hyperreflexia, exaggerated jaw jerk and extensor plantar responses were eventually seen in all patients. Anterior horn cell involvement developed in three cases. Early gait disturbances resulting in falls were seen in all patients and none of them responded to dopaminergic medications. Two patients underwent dopamine transporter (DaT) SPECT scanning with normal results. Other features included emotional lability (n = 5) and cognitive impairment involving frontal subcortical systems (n = 1). In conclusion, these cases represent a subgroup of PLS patients in whom pyramidal slowness may be mistaken for akinesia, and spasticity misconstrued as rigidity, leading to an erroneous diagnosis of atypical parkinsonism. However, the absence of fatiguing and decrement on repeated finger/foot tapping should help to distinguish these patients from the true atypical parkinsonian syndromes.
Fatigue is a common nonmotor symptom in idiopathic Parkinson disease (IPD) that can prominently affect everyday function. This study was a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial evaluating methylphenidate for the treatment of fatigue in patients with IPD maintained on their regular medications. Thirty-six patients were randomized to receive either methylphenidate (10 mg three times per day; n = 17) or placebo (n = 19) for 6 weeks. Primary outcomes were the change from baseline on two separate self-report fatigue questionnaires: the Fatigue Severity Scale (FSS) and the Multidimensional Fatigue Inventory (MFI). Secondary outcomes included the Unified Parkinson Disease Rating Scale (UPDRS) motor score and the five individual domains of the MFI. Fourteen patients in the methylphenidate group and 16 patients in the control group remained on the intervention for the entire study period. In the treatment arm, mean FSS score was reduced by 6.5 points (from a baseline of 43.8) and mean MFI score was reduced by 8.4 points (from a baseline of 51.0). Both these reductions were significant (P &lt; 0.04). Smaller reductions in the placebo group were nonsignificant. Mean UPDRS motor score did not change significantly in either group. Analysis of MFI subscores showed a significant reduction in General Fatigue in the methylphenidate group (P &lt; 0.001). Overall, adverse effects of medication were more frequent in the placebo group. In conclusion, methylphenidate was effective in lowering fatigue scores in patients with IPD following a 6-week treatment period.
Future therapies in Parkinson's disease may substantially build on the existence of intra-membrane receptor-receptor interactions in DA receptor containing heteromeric receptor complexes. The A(2A)/D(2) heteromer is of substantial interest in view of its specific location in cortico-striatal glutamate terminals and in striato-pallidal GABA neurons. Antagonistic A(2A)/D(2) receptor interactions in this heteromer demonstrated at the cellular level, and at the level of the striato-pallidal GABA neuron and at the network level made it possible to suggest A(2A) antagonists as anti-parkinsonian drugs. The major mechanism is an enhancement of D(2) signaling leading to attenuation of hypokinesia, tremor, and rigidity in models of Parkinson's disease with inspiring results in two clinical trials. Other interactions are antagonism at the level of the adenylyl cyclase; heterologous sensitization at the A(2A) activated adenylyl cyclase by persistent D(2) activation and a compensatory up-regulation of A(2A) receptors in response to intermittent Levodopa treatment. An increased dominance of A(2A) homomers over D(2) homomers and A(2A)/D(2) heteromers after intermittent Levodopa treatment may therefore contribute to development of Levodopa induced dyskinesias and to the wearing off of the therapeutic actions of Levodopa giving additional therapeutic roles of A(2A) antagonists. Their neuroprotective actions may involve an increase in the retrograde trophic signaling in the nigro-striatal DA system.
The human brain and skull are three dimensional (3D) anatomical structures with complex surfaces. However, medical images are often two dimensional (2D) and provide incomplete visualization of structural morphology. To overcome this loss in dimension, we developed and validated a freely available, semi-automated pathway to build 3D virtual reality (VR) and hand-held, stereolithograph models. To evaluate whether surface visualization in 3D was more informative than in 2D, undergraduate students (n = 50) used the Gillespie scale to rate 3D VR and physical models of both a living patient-volunteer's brain and the skull of Phineas Gage, a historically famous railroad worker whose misfortune with a projectile tamping iron provided the first evidence of a structure-function relationship in brain. Using our processing pathway, we successfully fabricated human brain and skull replicas and validated that the stereolithograph model preserved the scale of the VR model. Based on the Gillespie ratings, students indicated that the biological utility and quality of visual information at the surface of VR and stereolithograph models were greater than the 2D images from which they were derived. The method we developed is useful to create VR and stereolithograph 3D models from medical images and can be used to model hard or soft tissue in living or preserved specimens. Compared to 2D images, VR and stereolithograph models provide an extra dimension that enhances both the quality of visual information and utility of surface visualization in neuroscience and medicine.

Despite substantial progress in defining central components of the circadian pacemaker, the output pathways coupling the clock to rhythmic physiological events remain elusive. We previously showed that LARK is a Drosophila RNA-binding protein which functions downstream of the clock to mediate behavioral outputs. To better understand the roles of LARK in the circadian system, we sought to identify RNA molecules associated with it, in vivo, using a three-part strategy to (1) capture RNA ligands by immunoprecipitation, (2) visualize the captured RNAs using whole-genome microarrays, and (3) identify functionally relevant targets through genetic screens. We found that LARK is associated with a large number of RNAs, in vivo, consistent with its broad expression pattern. Overexpression of LARK increases protein abundance for certain targets without affecting RNA level, suggesting a translational regulatory role for the RNA-binding protein. Phenotypic screens of target-gene mutants have identified several with rhythm-specific circadian defects, indicative of effects on clock output pathways. In particular, a hypomorphic mutation in the E74 gene, E74(BG01805), was found to confer an early-eclosion phenotype reminiscent of that displayed by a mutant with decreased LARK gene dosage. Molecular analyses demonstrate that E74A protein shows diurnal changes in abundance, similar to LARK. In addition, the E74(BG01805) allele enhances the lethal phenotype associated with a lark null mutation, whereas overexpression of LARK suppresses the early eclosion phenotype of E74(BG01805), consistent with the idea that E74 is a target, in vivo. Our results suggest a model wherein LARK mediates the transfer of temporal information from the molecular oscillator to different output pathways by interacting with distinct RNA targets.
Alzheimer's disease (AD) is characterized by large numbers of senile plaques in the brain that consist of fibrillar aggregates of 40- and 42-residue amyloid-beta (Abeta) peptides. However, the degree of dementia in AD correlates better with the concentration of soluble Abeta species assayed biochemically than with histologically determined plaque counts, and several investigators now propose that soluble aggregates of Abeta are the neurotoxic agents that cause memory deficits and neuronal loss. These endogenous aggregates are minor components in brain extracts from AD patients and transgenic mice that express human Abeta, but several species have been detected by gel electrophoresis in sodium dodecylsulfate (SDS) and isolated by size exclusion chromatography (SEC). Endogenous Abeta aggregation is stimulated at cellular interfaces rich in lipid rafts, and anionic micelles that promote Abeta aggregation in vitro may be good models of these interfaces. We previously found that micelles formed in dilute SDS (2 mM) promote Abeta(1-40) fiber formation by supporting peptide interaction on the surface of a single micelle complex. In contrast, here we report that monomeric Abeta(1-42) undergoes an immediate conversion to a predominant beta-structured conformation in 2 mM SDS which does not proceed to amyloid fibrils. The conformational change is instead rapidly followed by the near quantitative conversion of the 4 kDa monomer SDS gel band to 8-14 kDa bands consistent with dimers through tetramers. Removal of SDS by dialysis gave a shift in the predominant SDS gel bands to 30-60 kDa. While these oligomers resemble the endogenous aggregates, they are less stable. In particular, they do not elute as discrete species on SEC, and they are completed disaggregated by boiling in 1% SDS. It appears that endogenous oligomeric Abeta aggregates are stabilized by undefined processes that have not yet been incorporated into in vitro Abeta aggregation procedures.


Heterotrimeric G protein signaling is important for cell-proliferative and glucose-sensing signal transduction pathways in the model plant organism Arabidopsis thaliana. AtRGS1 is a seven-transmembrane, RGS domain-containing protein that is a putative membrane receptor for d-glucose. Here we show, by using FRET, that d-glucose alters the interaction between the AtGPA1 and AtRGS1 in vivo. AtGPA1 is a unique heterotrimeric G protein alpha subunit that is constitutively GTP-bound given its high spontaneous nucleotide exchange coupled with slow GTP hydrolysis. Analysis of a point mutation in AtRGS1 that abrogates GTPase-accelerating activity demonstrates that the regulation of AtGPA1 GTP hydrolysis mediates sugar signal transduction during Arabidopsis development, in contrast to animals where nucleotide exchange is the limiting step in the heterotrimeric G protein nucleotide cycle.

Inflammatory mediators can directly sensitize primary afferent nociceptors to mechanical and osmotic stimuli. Sensitized nociceptors have a lowered threshold of activation and increased spontaneous activity, which result in symptoms of hyperalgesia and pain, respectively. The transient receptor potential vanilloid 4 (TRPV4) ligand-gated ion channel has been implicated in the hyperalgesia for mechanical and osmotic stimuli associated with inflammatory states. To investigate whether TRPV4 directly contributes to the mechanisms of inflammatory mediator sensitization of C-fiber nociceptors, we compared the effect of the injection of simplified inflammatory soup (prostaglandin E2 and serotonin) into the mechanical receptive fields of C-fibers in TRPV4+/+ and TRPV4-/- mice in vivo. Following the injection of the soup, the percentage of C-fibers responding to a hypotonic stimulus and the magnitude of the response was significantly greater in TRPV4+/+ mice compared to TRPV4-/- mice. Moreover, in response to simplified inflammatory soup only C-fibers from TRPV4+/+ mice exhibited increased spontaneous activity and decreased mechanical threshold. These marked impairments in the response of C-fibers in TRPV4-/- mice demonstrate the importance of TRPV4 in nociceptor sensitization; we suggest that TRPV4, as TRPV1, underlies the nociceptive effects of multiple inflammatory mediators on primary afferent.
Sensory neurons show enhanced neurite outgrowth in vivo and in vitro following a conditioning lesion. Previous studies have shown that these effects are dependent on two members of the gp130 family of cytokines, leukemia inhibitory factor and interleukin-6. Here, we asked whether galanin, a neuropeptide induced by these cytokines, plays a role in the conditioning lesion response. Following a conditioning lesion, neurite outgrowth in culture was reduced in sensory neurons from galanin -/- mice compared with those from wild type controls. In neurons from wild type mice, the length of the longest neurite was increased 2.4-fold after a conditioning lesion, compared with 1.8-fold in neurons from knockout animals. The results indicate that the induction of galanin plays an important role in triggering the conditioning lesion response.
Neural transdifferentiation of bone marrow stromal cells has been questioned, because cell fusion could explain the development of new cell types, misinterpreted as transdifferentiated cells. We performed here cocultures of bone marrow stromal cells and Schwann cells, without possibility that both cell types can establish contact. In these conditions, bone marrow stromal cells expressed nestin 4 h after beginning cocultures, and strong expression of neuronal markers was disclosed at 72 h, increasing at 1 and 2 weeks. Our results support that neural transdifferentiation of bone marrow stromal cells is induced by soluble factors provided by glial cells, and suggest that cell fusion should not be significant when local bone marrow stromal cells administration for neural repair is considered.
Automatic detection of auditory changes that violate a regular sound sequence is indexed by the mismatch negativity (MMN) component of the event-related potential. The MMN is considered to reflect an auditory sensory memory and attention switching mechanism. Our aim was to study whether the auditory MMN can be associated with visual cues that have predictive value. By using visual cues that predicted the appearance of a deviant sound in most but not all of the cases, we were able to elicit MMN not only to the deviant sounds but also to those regular sounds that were misleadingly preceded by the visual cue. This result indicates high flexibility in the human automatic auditory change detection system, as it is affected by short-term visual-auditory associative learning.
Perceptual visual filling-in of toxoplasmic retinochoroiditis chronic scotomas was studied in 13 patients. Although there is deficit of visual inputs, patients with such chronic lesions perceive the region in the visual field uninterrupted. Targets were programmed to appear just outside the edge of the retinal lesion, and healthy retinal areas in the same eye. The results showed no significant difference in perceptual filling-in latencies (P&gt;0.05). Conclusions: (i) neural mechanisms of filling-in at the blind spot are probably involved explaining this perceptual phenomenon; (ii) any neuronal changes occurring at the edge of the lesion only affected filling-in within the scotoma area.
In this study, we demonstrate that embryonic stem cells can be engineered to differentiate into high percentages of serotonergic and dopaminergic neurons. In vitro, these cells release serotonin and dopamine in response to membrane depolarization. Upon engraftment into the medial prefrontal cortex in rats, the homolog of the human anterior cingulate cortex, the cells assumed neuronal morphologies, expressed monoaminergic-specific proteins, and seemed to functionally integrate, as assessed by the upregulation of the immediate-early gene, cfos. Furthermore, the transplanted animals performed in a manner similar to that of animals that received the antidepressant, citalopram, when administered the forced swim test, a validated model of human depression. These results suggest that transplantation of customized stem cells might perhaps be useful in the study treatment of psychiatric disorders.
Using an event-related functional MRI technique, we examined the blood oxygen level-dependent responses of normal participants to auditory stimuli that consisted of four triads to explore the neural correlates for judging mode-related emotional contents in tonal music. Three categories of stimuli, MAJOR, MINOR and NEUTRAL were prepared. MAJOR and MINOR stimuli suggest C major and c minor, respectively. NEUTRAL stimuli were controls. The task was to judge the categories. Contrasts MAJOR-NEUTRAL and MINOR-NEUTRAL showed significant activation in the bilateral inferior frontal gyri, medial thalamus, and dorsal anterior cingulate cortex. It is suggested that the bilateral inferior frontal gyri and medial thalamus are involved in judging the mode, whereas the dorsal anterior cingulate cortex was related to conflicts in the participant's mind.
Inflammation can both support and hinder regeneration. In this work, we asked whether regeneration of peripheral nerve axons is facilitated or interrupted when it proceeds through a zone of local but nondirected inflammation. Regeneration was examined in new nerve bridges forming through conduits connecting transected rat sciatic nerves. The conduits, infused with lipopolysaccharide to generate a sterile and nondirected inflammatory response, had substantial rises in inducible nitric oxide (iNOS) mRNA synthesis. iNOS was expressed within macrophages just beyond the zone of axon regrowth. Under these conditions, there was complete interruption of regenerative bridge formation in all instances without axon regrowth across the transection. In a separate cohort, infusion of a broad-spectrum NOS inhibitor (Nomega-nitro-L-arginine-methyl ester) into the conduit salvaged bridge formation in a proportion (3/8) of rats. Our findings indicate that local inflammatory conditions inhibit regenerative events and that nitric oxide may contribute to these events.
Neurons in the nucleus cuneiformis (CnF), located just ventrolateral to the periaqueductal gray, project to medullary nucleus raphe magnus (NRM), which is a key medullary relay for descending pain modulation and is critically involved in opioid-induced analgesia. Previous studies have shown that antinociceptive response of CnF-microinjected morphine can be modulated by the specific subtypes of glutamatergic receptors within the CnF. In this study, we evaluated the role of NMDA and kainate/AMPA receptors that are widely distributed within the NRM on morphine-induced antinociception elicited from the CnF. Hundred and five male Wistar rats weighing 250-300 g were used. Morphine (10, 20 and 40 microg) and NMDA receptor antagonist, MK-801 (10 microg) or kainate/AMPA receptor antagonist, DNQX (0.5 microg) in 0.5 microl saline were stereotaxically microinjected into the CnF and NRM, respectively. The latency of tail-flick response was measured at set intervals (2, 7, 12, 17, 22, 27 min after microinjection) by using an automated tail-flick analgesiometer. The results showed that morphine microinjection into the CnF dose-dependently causes increase in tail-flick latency (TFL). MK-801 microinjected into the NRM, just 1 min before morphine injection into the CnF, significantly attenuated antinociceptive effects of morphine. On the other hand, DNQX microinjected into the NRM, significantly increased TFL after local application of morphine into the CnF. We suggest that morphine related antinociceptive effect elicited from the CnF is mediated, in part, by NMDA receptor at the level of the NRM whereas kainite/AMPA receptor has a net inhibitory influence at the same pathway.
beta-Amyloid peptide produces apoptosis in neurons at micromolar concentrations, but the mechanism by which beta-amyloid exerts its toxic effect is unknown. The normal biological function of beta-amyloid is also unknown. We used phage display, co-precipitation, and mass spectrometry to examine the protein-protein interactions of beta-amyloid in normal rabbit brain in order to identify the biochemical receptors for beta-amyloid. beta-Amyloid was found to bind primarily to proteins involved in low density lipoprotein and cholesterol transport and metabolism, including sortilin, endoplasmic reticulum-Golgi intermediate compartment 2 (ERGIC2), ERGIC-53, steroid 5alpha-reductase, and apolipoprotein B. beta-Amyloid also bound to the C-reactive protein precursor, a protein involved in inflammation, and to 14-3-3, a protein that regulates glycogen synthase kinase-3beta, the kinase involved in tau phosphorylation. Of eight synthetic peptides identified as targets of beta-amyloid, three were found to be effective blockers of the toxic effect of beta-amyloid on cultured neuronal cells. These peptides bound to the hydrophobic region (residues 17-21) or to the nearby protein kinase C pseudo-phosphorylation site (residues 26-30) of beta-amyloid, suggesting that these may be the most critical regions for beta-amyloid effector action and for aggregation. Peptides or other small molecules that bind to this region may protect against beta-amyloid toxic effect by competitively blocking its ability to bind beta-amyloid effector proteins such as sortilin and 14-3-3.
Mutations in the gene encoding presenilin 1 (PS1) cause the most aggressive form of early-onset familial Alzheimer disease. In addition to its well established role in Abeta production and Notch proteolysis, PS1 has been shown to mediate other physiological activities, such as regulation of the Wnt/beta-catenin signaling pathway, modulation of phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase/Akt and MEK/ERK signaling, and trafficking of select membrane proteins and/or intracellular vesicles. In this study, we present evidence that PS1 is a critical regulator of a key signaling receptor tyrosine kinase, epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR). Specifically, EGFR levels were robustly increased in fibroblasts deficient in both PS1 and PS2 (PS(-/-)) due to delayed turnover of EGFR protein. Stable transfection of wild-type PS1 but not PS2 corrected EGFR to levels comparable to PS(+/+) cells, while FAD PS1 mutations showed partial loss of activity. The C-terminal fragment of PS1 was sufficient to fully reduce EGFR levels. In addition, the rapid ligand-induced degradation of EGFR was markedly delayed in PS(-/-) cells, resulting in prolonged signal activation. Despite the defective turnover of EGFR, ligand-induced autophosphorylation, ubiquitination, and endocytosis of EGFR were not affected by the lack of PS1. Instead, the trafficking of EGFR from early endosomes to lysosomes was severely delayed by PS1 deficiency. Elevation of EGFR was also seen in brains of adult mice conditionally ablated in PS1 and in skin tumors associated with the loss of PS1. These findings demonstrate a critical role of PS1 in the trafficking and turnover of EGFR and suggest potential pathogenic effects of elevated EGFR as well as perturbed endosomal-lysosomal trafficking in cell cycle control and Alzheimer disease.
Pannexins are newly discovered channel proteins expressed in many different tissues and abundantly in the vertebrate central nervous system. Based on membrane topology, folding and secondary structure prediction, pannexins are proposed to form gap junction-like structures. We show here that Pannexin1 forms a hexameric channel and reaches the cell surface but, unlike connexins, is N-glycosylated. Using site-directed mutagenesis we analyzed three putative N-linked glycosylation sites and examined the effects of each mutation on channel expression. We show for the first time that Pannexin1 is glycosylated at Asn-254 and that this residue is important for plasma membrane targeting. The glycosylation of Pannexin1 at its extracellular surface makes it unlikely that two oligomers could dock to form an intercellular channel. Ultrastructural analysis by electron microscopy confirmed that Pannexin1 junctional areas do not appear as canonical gap junctions. Rather, Pannexin1 channels are distributed throughout the plasma membrane. We propose that N-glycosylation of Pannexin1 could be a significant mechanism for regulating the trafficking of these membrane proteins to the cell surface in different tissues.
We measure acuity, crowding, and reading in amblyopic observers to answer four questions. (1) Is reading with the amblyopic eye impaired because of larger required letter size (i.e., worse acuity) or larger required spacing (i.e., worse crowding)? The size or spacing required to read at top speed is called &quot;critical&quot;. For each eye of seven amblyopic observers and the preferred eyes of two normal observers, we measure reading rate as a function of the center-to-center spacing of the letters in central and peripheral vision. From these results, we estimate the critical spacing for reading. We also measured traditional acuity for an isolated letter and the critical spacing for identifying a letter among other letters, which is the classic measure of crowding. For both normals and amblyopes, in both central and peripheral vision, we find that the critical spacing for reading equals the critical spacing for crowding. The identical critical spacings, and very different critical sizes, show that crowding, not acuity, limits reading. (2) Does amblyopia affect peripheral reading? No. We find that amblyopes read normally with their amblyopic eye except that abnormal crowding in the fovea prevents them from reading fine print. (3) Is the normal periphery a good model for the amblyopic fovea? No. Reading centrally, the amblyopic eye has an abnormally large critical spacing but reads all larger spacings at normal rates. This is unlike the normal periphery, in which both critical spacing and maximum reading rate are severely impaired relative to the normal fovea. (4) Can the uncrowded-span theory of reading rate explain amblyopic reading? Yes. The case of amblyopia shows that crowding limits reading solely by determining the uncrowded span: the number of characters that are not crowded. Characters are uncrowded if and only if their spacing is more than critical. The text spacing may be uniform, but the observer's critical spacing increases with distance from fixation, so the uncrowded span extends out to where the spacing is critical. Amblyopes have normal critical spacing in the periphery, so, when the uncrowded span extends into the periphery, it has normal extent, which predicts our finding that reading rate is normal too. This confirms the theory that reading rate is determined by the width of the uncrowded span, independent of the critical spacing within the span. The uncrowded-span model of normal reading fits the amblyopic results well, with a roughly fivefold increase in the critical spacing at fixation. Thus, the entire amblyopic reading deficit is accounted for by crowding.
Characterizing the responses of different mouse strains to experimentally-induced seizures can provide clues to the genes that are responsible for seizure susceptibility, and factors that contribute to epilepsy. This approach is optimal when sequenced mouse strains are available. Therefore, we compared two sequenced strains, DBA/2J (DBA) and A/J. These strains were compared using the chemoconvulsant pilocarpine, because pilocarpine induces status epilepticus, a state of severe, prolonged seizures. In addition, pilocarpine-induced status is followed by changes in the brain that are associated with the pathophysiology of temporal lobe epilepsy (TLE). Therefore, pilocarpine can be used to address susceptibility to severe seizures, as well as genes that could be relevant to TLE. A/J mice had a higher incidence of status, but a longer latency to status than DBA mice. DBA mice exhibited more hippocampal pyramidal cell damage. DBA mice developed more ectopic granule cells in the hilus, a result of aberrant migration of granule cells born after status. DBA mice experienced sudden death in the weeks following status, while A/J mice exhibited the most sudden death in the initial hour after pilocarpine administration. The results support previous studies of strain differences based on responses to convulsants. They suggest caution in studies of seizure susceptibility that are based only on incidence or latency. In addition, the results provide new insight into the strain-specific characteristics of DBA and A/J mice. A/J mice provide a potential resource to examine the progression to status. The DBA mouse may be valuable to clarify genes regulating other seizure-associated phenomena, such as seizure-induced neurogenesis and sudden death.
Suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN) neurons generate circadian rhythms, and these neurons normally exhibit loosely-synchronized action potentials. Although electrotonic coupling has long been proposed to mediate this neuronal synchrony, ultrastructural studies have failed to detect gap junctions between SCN neurons. Nevertheless, it has been proposed that neuronal gap junctions exist in the SCN; that they consist of connexin32 or, alternatively, connexin36; and that connexin36 knockout eliminates neuronal coupling between SCN neurons and disrupts circadian rhythms. We used confocal immunofluorescence microscopy and freeze-fracture replica immunogold labeling to examine the distributions of connexin30, connexin32, connexin36, and connexin43 in rat and mouse SCN and used whole-cell recordings to re-assess electrotonic and tracer coupling. Connexin32-immunofluorescent puncta were essentially absent in SCN but connexin36 was relatively abundant. Fifteen neuronal gap junctions were identified ultrastructurally, all of which contained connexin36 but not connexin32, whereas nearby oligodendrocyte gap junctions contained connexin32. In adult SCN, one neuronal gap junction was &gt;600 connexons, whereas 75% were smaller than 50 connexons, which may be below the limit of detectability by fluorescence microscopy and thin-section electron microscopy. Whole-cell recordings in hypothalamic slices revealed tracer coupling with neurobiotin in &lt;5% of SCN neurons, and paired recordings (&gt;40 pairs) did not reveal obvious electrotonic coupling or synchronized action potentials, consistent with few neurons possessing large gap junctions. However, most neurons had partial spikes or spikelets (often &lt;1 mV), which remained after QX-314 [N-(2,6-dimethylphenylcarbamoylmethyl)triethylammonium bromide] had blocked sodium-mediated action potentials within the recorded neuron, consistent with spikelet transmission via small gap junctions. Thus, a few &quot;miniature&quot; gap junctions on most SCN neurons appear to mediate weak electrotonic coupling between limited numbers of neuron pairs, thus accounting for frequent detection of partial spikes and hypothetically providing the basis for &quot;loose&quot; electrical or metabolic synchronization of electrical activity commonly observed in SCN neuronal populations during circadian rhythms.
Although a number of epidemiologic studies reported that higher intake of omega-3 fatty acids (largely associated with fish consumption) is protective against Alzheimer's disease (AD), other human studies reported no such effect. Because retrospective human studies are problematic and controlled longitudinal studies over decades are impractical, the present study utilized Alzheimer's transgenic mice (Tg) in a highly controlled study to determine whether a diet high in omega-3 fatty acid, equivalent to the 13% omega-3 fatty acid diet of Greenland Eskimos, can improve cognitive performance or protect against cognitive impairment. Amyloid precursor protein (APP)-sw+PS1 double transgenic mice, as well as nontransgenic (NT) normal littermates, were given a high omega-3 supplemented diet or a standard diet from 2 through 9 months of age, with a comprehensive behavioral test battery administered during the final 6 weeks. For both Tg and NT mice, long-term n-3 supplementation resulted in cognitive performance that was no better than that of mice fed a standard diet. In NT mice, the high omega-3 diet increased cortical levels of omega-3 fatty acids while decreasing omega-6 levels. However, the high omega-3 diet had no effect on cortical fatty acid levels in Tg mice. Irrespective of diet, no correlations existed between brain omega-3 levels and cognitive performance for individual NT or Tg mice. In contrast, brain levels of omega-6 fatty acids were strongly correlated with cognitive impairment for both genotypes. Thus, elevated brain levels of omega-3 fatty acids were not relevant to cognitive function, whereas high brain levels of omega-6 were associated with impaired cognitive function. In Tg mice, the omega-3 supplemental diet did not induce significant changes in soluble/insoluble Abeta within the hippocampus, although strong correlations were evident between hippocampal Abeta(1-40) levels and cognitive impairment. While these studies involved a genetically manipulated mouse model of AD, our results suggest that diets high in omega-3 fatty acids, or use of fish oil supplements (DHA+EPA), will not protect against AD, at least in high-risk individuals. However, normal individuals conceivably could derive cognitive benefits from high omega-3 intake if it corrects an elevation in the brain level of n-6 fatty acids as a result. Alternatively, dietary fish may contain nutrients, other than DHA and EPA, that could provide some protection against AD.
In this report the potassium- (30 mM) and amphetamine- (10 microM) stimulated responses of dopamine (DA) and 3,4-dihydroxy phenylacetic acid (DOPAC) from superfused striatal tissue of female and male mice as sampled at 2, 6, 18 and 24 months of age were compared. When assessed relative to responses obtained from 2-month-old female mice, potassium-stimulated DA output of female mice was significantly decreased at 18 months of age and significantly increased at 24 months of age. In male mice, the only statistically significant change was an increase in potassium-stimulated DA in the 24 versus 2-month-old mice. In response to amphetamine-stimulation, DA responses from striatal tissue of 18-month-old females were significantly decreased and that of 24-month-old mice significantly increased relative to that of the 2-month-old females. In the case of male mice, amphetamine-stimulated DA responses of 6- and 18-month-old mice were significantly decreased compared with responses observed in the 2-month-old males. In addition, amphetamine-stimulated DA responses of the 24-month-old females were significantly greater than the 24-month-old males. In general, the response profiles for DOPAC to potassium and amphetamine stimulation were similar to that of DA for male, but not female, mice. These results demonstrate that sex differences in striatal dopaminergic function are differentially affected by age. Overall, striatal DA responsiveness of female mice shows more extreme age-related changes, particularly between the 2- and 6-month versus the 18- and 24-month-old mice and a discord between DA and DOPAC responses. Such extreme changes may be related to the presence (at 2 and 6 months) versus absence (at 18 and 24 months) of estrous cycles/gonadal steroid hormonal functions in female mice.
Adult neurogenesis in the hippocampus continues throughout life and may play an important role in hippocampus-dependent learning and memory. Previous research has been equivocal, demonstrating that spatial learning may enhance, decrease or not significantly affect the survival of new neurons. A potential cause of these varying results may be differences in when bromodeoxyuridine (BrdU) was administered relative to spatial training. We examined whether the time elapsed between BrdU administration and spatial learning would alter the survival of the labeled cells. We injected rats with BrdU once on day 0 and then trained in the standard place version of the Morris water task on days 1-5, 6-10 or 11-15 after BrdU injection. We found an enhancement of neurogenesis in the hippocampus only when BrdU was administered 6 days prior to the beginning of spatial training. There was no significant change in hippocampal neurogenesis for groups that started training either 1 or 11 days following BrdU administration. This suggests that a critical period exists in the development of new neurons during which time their survival may be altered by activation of the hippocampus. Furthermore, when dividing rats into poor versus good learners based on overall performance using a median split, only poor place learners and not good place learners exhibit increased hippocampal neurogenesis compared with cue learning, collapsed across time of training. These findings provide further evidence of a link between learning and adult neurogenesis.
The polysialic acid (PSA) modification of neural cell adhesion molecule, which reduces neural cell adhesion molecule (NCAM) - mediated cell adhesion, is involved in several developmental processes, such as cell migration, axonal growth, path finding, and synaptic plasticity. It has been suggested that PSA-NCAM expression may inhibit myelination. To clarify the relationship between myelination and the expression of PSA-NCAM we systematically investigated its expression in the human forebrain from embryonic stage to midgestation (19-24 gestation weeks, gw). Immunofluorescence on cryosections showed that PSA-NCAM is expressed at the earliest stage studied (5.5 gw) in the primordial plexiform layer of the telencephalon, which mainly consists of neuronal processes. At midgestation, cortical axonal tracts in the emerging white matter were PSA-NCAM+, but they were not yet myelinated, based on the lack of myelin basic protein (MBP) immunoreaction. To follow the progression of myelination we developed organotypic slice cultures that included the subventricular and intermediate zones of the fetal forebrain. In freshly prepared slices, similar to cryosections, axonal tracts were PSA-NCAM+ but did not express MBP. After 5 days in culture there was a dramatic increase in MBP expression around the axons of the intermediate zone, which suggested the onset of myelination. Simultaneously with MBP up-regulation PSA-NCAM expression in axons was completely lost, as demonstrated both with immunofluorescence and Western blot analysis. These results support the idea that in the human fetal forebrain axonal PSA-NCAM expression is inversely related to primary myelination.
The involvement of central endoplasmic inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate receptors (IP3R) in muscarinic antinociception was investigated in the mouse hot plate test. Selective knockdown of type 1, 2 and 3 IP3R was obtained by means of an antisense oligonucleotide (aODN) strategy. A selective IP3R protein level reduction of approximately 30-50% produced by aODN administration for each receptor subtype investigated was demonstrated by Western blotting experiments. I.c.v. pretreatment with an aODN complementary to the sequence of the type 2 IP3R (0.1-3 nmol per mouse i.c.v.) prevented the antinociception induced by physostigmine (0.15 mg kg(-1) s.c.) and oxotremorine (60 microg kg(-1) s.c.). Similarly, an aODN against type 3 IP3R (0.1-3 nmol per mouse i.c.v.) antagonized cholinergic antinociception. A shift to the right of the physostigmine dose-response curve was obtained after anti-type 2 IP3R2 and anti-type 3 IP3R treatments. Conversely, pretreatment with an aODN complementary to the sequence of type 1 IP3R (0.1-5 nmol per mouse i.c.v.) did not modify the antinociception induced by physostigmine and oxotremorine. Mice undergoing treatment with aODNs did not show any impairment of the locomotor activity, spontaneous motility and exploratory activity as revealed by the rota-rod and hole board tests. These results indicate a selective involvement of type 2 and 3 IP3R in central muscarinic antinociception in mice.
Evidence is provided to show that synaptic vesicles have an internal matrix. Suspensions of cholinergic synaptic vesicles isolated from the electric organ of Torpedo marmorata fish were permeabilized in solutions containing low concentrations of Na(+) or Ca(2+). The release of ATP from the vesicular matrix was 10 times more effective with Ca(2+) than with Na(+). We ascertained whether these two cations induced a different velocity of release of ATP from the matrix. The release of ATP was monitored with the chemiluminescent reaction of luciferin-luciferase. The light signal generated was the result of the kinetics of ATP release of the enzymatic reaction. To overcome the kinetics of the enzymatic reaction, the light records were deconvoluted. The actual kinetics of ATP release of vesicles containing Na(+) or Ca(2+) were coincident. To validate this result, comparison was made with ATP release from intact nerve terminals which were already deconvoluted. The results show that the real time course of release is longer than that obtained from synaptic vesicles. This was as expected given that the release of neurotransmitters is due to successive molecular steps of synaptic vesicle exocytosis.
The proximate cause of Parkinson's disease is striatal dopamine depletion. Although no overt toxicity to striatal neurons has been reported in Parkinson's disease, one of the consequences of striatal dopamine loss is a decrease in the number of dendritic spines on striatal medium spiny neurons (MSNs). Dendrites of these neurons receive cortical glutamatergic inputs onto the dendritic spine head and dopaminergic inputs from the substantia nigra onto the spine neck. This synaptic arrangement suggests that dopamine gates corticostriatal glutamatergic drive onto spines. Using triple organotypic slice cultures composed of ventral mesencephalon, striatum, and cortex of the neonatal rat, we examined the role of the cortex in dopamine depletion-induced dendritic spine loss in MSNs. The striatal dopamine innervation was lesioned by treatment of the cultures with the dopaminergic neurotoxin 1-methyl-4-phenylpyridinium (MPP+) or by removing the mesencephalon. Both MPP+ and mesencephalic ablation decreased MSN dendritic spine density. Analysis of spine morphology revealed that thin spines were preferentially lost after dopamine depletion. Removal of the cortex completely prevented dopamine depletion-induced spine loss. These data indicate that the dendritic remodeling of MSNs seen in parkinsonism occurs secondary to increases in corticostriatal glutamatergic drive, and suggest that modulation of cortical activity may be a useful therapeutic strategy in Parkinson's disease.
Two-pore potassium channels can influence neuronal excitability by regulating background leakage of potassium ions and resting membrane potential. The present study used quantitative real time PCR and in situ hybridization to determine if the decreased activity from deafness would induce changes in two-pore potassium channel subunit expression in the rat inferior colliculus (IC). Ten subunits were assessed with quantitative real-time PCR at 3 days, 3 weeks and 3 months following bilateral cochlear ablation. TASK-1, TASK-5 and THIK-2 showed significant decreases in expression at all three times assessed. TASK-5, relatively specific to auditory neurons, had the greatest decrease. TWIK-1 was significantly decreased at 3 weeks and 3 months following deafness and TREK-2 was only significantly decreased at 3 days. TASK-3, TWIK-2, THIK-1, TRAAK and TREK-1 did not show any significant changes in gene expression. In situ hybridization was used to examine TASK-1, TASK-5, TWIK-1 and THIK-2 in the central nucleus, dorsal cortex and lateral (external) cortex of the IC in normal hearing animals and at 3 weeks following deafening. All four subunits showed expression in neurons throughout IC subdivisions in normal hearing rats, with TASK-5 having the greatest overall number of labeled neurons. There was no co-localization of subunit expression with glial fibrillary acidic protein immunostaining, indicating no expression in glia. Three weeks following deafening there was a significant decrease in the number of neurons expressing TASK-1 and THIK-2 in the IC, while TASK-5 had significant decreases in the central nucleus and dorsal cortex and TWIK-1 in the lateral and dorsal cortices.
Epilepsy is characterized as a chronic brain state with a very low seizure threshold, and the occurrence of repeated seizure activity. Currently, there is no animal model of induced epilepsy that allows for the exploration of the brain mechanisms underlying a low seizure threshold without the elicitation of seizures. In this study, we employed repeated application of different intensities of electrical stimulation in an attempt to reduce afterdischarge (seizure) thresholds without eliciting seizures. We utilized an in vivo model of neocortical activation via stimulation of the corpus callosum of the adult rat. The intensities were chosen to be subthreshold (20, 30, 40, 50 microA), near threshold (150 microA), and suprathreshold (250, 500 microA) relative to the mean initial afterdischarge threshold (ADT). We also examined changes in the evoked field responses of the transcallosal pathway to the sensorimotor cortex as a measure of synaptic efficacy. Our results indicated that stimulation at 50 microA was effective at reducing the ADT, while minimizing the number of seizures elicited. Stimulation at 150 microA resulted in the concomitant reduction of ADT and repeated seizures typical of most electrical kindling studies. Finally, the 500 microA group showed repeated seizures, but no reduction of afterdischarge threshold. These stimulation intensities (50 microA, 150 microA, 500 microA and 0 microA-control) can be used to independently determine the brain mechanisms responsible for 1) the acquisition of a low afterdischarge threshold independent of the reorganizing effect of repeated seizures, and 2) the elicitation of repeated seizures independent of stimulation induced reduction of afterdischarge threshold.
Alterations in the state of excitability of midbrain dopamine (DA) neurons from the ventral tegmental area (VTA) may underlie changes in the synaptic plasticity of the mesocorticolimbic system. Here, we investigated norepinephrine's (NE) regulation of VTA DA cell excitability by modulation of the hyperpolarization-activated cation current, Ih, with whole cell recordings in rat brain slices. Current clamp recordings show that NE (40 microM) hyperpolarizes spontaneously firing VTA DA cells (11.23+/-4 mV; n=8). In a voltage clamp, NE (40 microM) induces an outward current (100+/-24 pA; n=8) at -60 mV that reverses at about the Nernst potential for potassium (-106 mV). In addition, NE (40 microM) increases the membrane cord conductance (179+/-42%; n=10) and reduces Ih amplitude (68+/-3% of control at -120 mV; n=10). The noradrenergic alpha-1 antagonist prazosin (40 microM; n=5) or the alpha-2 antagonist yohimbine (40 microM; n=5) did not block NE effects. All NE-evoked events were blocked by the D2 antagonists sulpiride (1 microM) and eticlopride (100 nM) and no significant reduction of Ih took place in the presence of the potassium channel blocker BaCl2 (300 microM). Therefore, it is concluded that NE inhibition of Ih was due to an increase in membrane conductance by a nonspecific activation of D2 receptors that induce an outward potassium current and is not a result of a second messenger system acting on h-channels. The results also suggest that Ih channels are mainly located at dendrites of VTA DA cells and, thus, their inhibition may facilitate the transition from single-spike firing to burst firing and vice versa.
The globus pallidus (GP) plays a central integrative role in the basal ganglia circuitry. It receives strong GABAergic inputs from the striatum (Str) and significant glutamatergic afferents from the subthalamic nucleus (STN). The change in firing rate and pattern of GP neurons is a cardinal feature of Parkinson's disease pathophysiology. Kainate receptor (KAR) GluR6/7 subunit immunoreactivity is expressed presynaptically in GABAergic striatopallidal terminals which provides a substrate for regulation of GABAergic transmission in GP. To test this hypothesis, we recorded GABA(A)-mediated inhibitory postsynaptic currents (IPSCs) in the GP following electrical stimulation of the Str. Following blockade of AMPA and N-methyl-d-aspartate receptors with selective antagonists, bath application of kainate (KA) (0.3-3 microM) reduced significantly the amplitude of evoked IPSCs. This inhibition was associated with a significant increase in paired-pulse facilitation ratio and a reduction of the frequency, but not amplitude, of miniature inhibitory postsynaptic currents (mIPSCs), suggesting a presynaptic site of KA action. The KA effects on striatopallidal GABAergic transmission were blocked by the G-protein inhibitor, N-ethylmaleimide (NEM), or protein kinase C (PKC) inhibitor calphostin C. Our results demonstrate that KAR activation inhibits GABAergic transmission through a presynaptic G protein-coupled, PKC-dependent metabotropic mechanism in the rat GP. These findings open up the possibility for the development of KA-mediated pharmacotherapies aimed at decreasing the excessive and abnormally regulated inhibition of GP neurons in Parkinson's disease.
The paraventricular nucleus (PVN) of the hypothalamus is important for the neural regulation of cardiovascular function. Nitric oxide (NO) increases synaptic GABA release to presympathetic PVN neurons through the cyclic guanosine monophosphate (cGMP)/protein kinase G signaling pathway. However, the downstream signaling mechanisms underlying the effect of NO on synaptic GABA release remain unclear. In this study, whole-cell voltage-clamp recordings were performed on retrograde-labeled spinally projecting PVN neurons in rat brain slices. Bath application of the NO precursor l-arginine or the NO donor S-nitroso-N-acetylpenicillamine (SNAP) significantly increased the frequency of GABAergic miniature inhibitory postsynaptic currents (mIPSCs) in labeled PVN neurons. A specific antagonist of cyclic ADP ribose, 8-bromo-cyclic ADP ribose (8-Br-cADPR), had no significant effect on l-arginine-induced potentiation of mIPSCs. Surprisingly, blocking of voltage-gated potassium channels (Kv) with 4-aminopyridine or alpha-dendrotoxin eliminated the effect of l-arginine on mIPSCs in all labeled PVN neurons tested. The membrane permeable cGMP analog mimicked the effect of l-arginine on mIPSCs, and this effect was blocked by alpha-dendrotoxin. Furthermore, the specific Kv channel blocker for Kv1.1 (dendrotoxin-K) or Kv1.2 (tityustoxin-Kalpha) abolished the effect of l-arginine on mIPSCs in all neurons tested. SNAP failed to inhibit the firing activity of labeled PVN neurons in the presence of dendrotoxin-K, Kalpha. Additionally, the immunoreactivity of Kv1.1 and Kv1.2 subunits was colocalized extensively with synaptophysin in the PVN. These findings suggest that NO increases GABAergic input to PVN presympathetic neurons through a downstream mechanism involving the Kv1.1 and Kv1.2 channels at the nerve terminals.
Organotypic cultures of rat cortex were used to test the hypotheses that nerve growth factor (NGF) is neuroprotective for immature cortical neurons and that ethanol abolishes this neuroprotection in a developmental stage-dependent manner. Samples were obtained on gestational day (G) 16 or postnatal day (P) 3 and cultured with ethanol (0 or 400 mg/dl) and NGF (0 or 30 ng/ml) for 72 h. Dying neurons were identified as exhibiting terminal nick-end labeling, immunoreactivity for activated caspase 3, or condensed nuclear chromatin. Two cortical compartments were examined in fetal tissue: a superficial, cell-sparse marginal zone (MZ) and a cell-dense cortical plate (CP). At P3, the CP was subdivided into a cell-dense upper cortical plate (UCP) and a less densely packed lower cortical plate (LCP). Neuronal death in the MZ was affected by neither NGF nor ethanol at both ages. In the fetal CP, NGF did not affect the incidence of cell death, but ethanol increased it. Treatment with NGF caused an upregulation of the expression of Neg, a gene known to be affected by NGF and ethanol. NGF did not ameliorate the ethanol-induced death. In pups, ethanol increased the amount of death in the LCP. NGF did protect against this death. Neither ethanol nor NGF altered the incidence of cell death in the UCP. The laminar-dependent neuroprotection did not correlate with expression of NGF receptors or Neg. Thus, NGF can be protective against the neurotoxic effect of ethanol in the neonatal brain. This effect is site selective and time dependent and it targets postmigratory, differentiating neurons.
We studied sensori-motor interaction in the primary (SI) and secondary somatosensory cortex (SII) using magnetoencephalography. Since SII in both hemispheres was activated following unilateral stimulation, we analyzed SIIc (contralateral to stimulation) as well as SIIi (ipsilateral to stimulation). Four tasks were performed in human subjects in which a voluntary thumb movement of the left or right hand was combined with electrical stimulation applied to the index finger of the left or right hand: L(M)-L(S) (movement of the left thumb triggered stimulation to the left finger), L(M)-R(S) (movement of the left thumb triggered electrical stimulation to the right finger), R(M)-R(S) (movement of the right thumb triggered electrical stimulation to the right finger), and R(M)-L(S) (movement of the right thumb triggered electrical stimulation to the left finger). Stimulation to the index finger only (S condition) was also recorded. In SI, the amplitude of N20m and P35m was significantly attenuated in the R(M)-R(S) and L(M)-L(S) tasks compared with the S condition, but that for other tasks showed no change, corresponding to a conventional gating phenomenon. In SII, the R(M)-L(S) task significantly enhanced the amplitude of SIIc but reduced that of SIIi compared with the S condition. The L(M)-L(S) and R(M)-R(S) tasks caused a significant enhancement only in SIIi. The L(M)-R(S) task enhanced the amplitude only in SIIc. The laterality index showed that SII modulation with voluntary movement was more dominant in the hemisphere ipsilateral to movement but was not affected by the side of stimulation. These results provided the characteristics of activities in somatosensory cortices, a simple inhibition in SI but complicated changes in SII depending on the side of movement and stimulation, which may indicate the higher cognitive processing in SII.
Diabetic encephalopathy is a recognized complication of untreated diabetes resulting in a progressive cognitive impairment accompanied by modification of hippocampal function. The purinergic system is a promising novel target to control diabetic encephalopathy since it might simultaneously control hippocampal synaptic plasticity and glucose handling. We now tested whether streptozotocin-induced diabetes led to a modification of extracellular ATP homeostasis and density of membrane ATP (P2) receptors in the hippocampus, a brain structure involved in learning and memory. The extracellular levels of ATP, evaluated in the cerebrospinal fluid, were reduced by 60.4+/-17.0% in diabetic rats. Likewise, the evoked release of ATP as well as its extracellular catabolism was also decreased in hippocampal nerve terminals of diabetic rats by 52.8+/-10.9% and 38.7+/-6.5%, respectively. Western blot analysis showed that the density of several P2 receptors (P2X(3,5,7) and P2Y(2,6,11)) was decreased in hippocampal nerve terminals. This indicates that the synaptic ATP signaling is globally depressed in diabetic rats, which may contribute for diabetes-associated decrease of synaptic plasticity. In contrast, the density of P2 receptors (P2X(1,2,5,6,7) and P2Y(6) but not P2Y(2)) increased in whole hippocampal membranes, suggesting an adaptation of non-synaptic P2 receptors to sense decreased levels of extracellular ATP in diabetic rats, which might be aimed at preserving the non-synaptic purinergic signaling.
We investigated the effect of the tyrosine hydroxylase inhibitor, alpha-methyl-para-tyrosine (AMPT) on extracellular dopamine and 5-HT levels in the nucleus accumbens of group- and isolation-reared rats. Microdialysis with high-performance liquid chromatography-electrochemical detection was used to quantify dopamine and 5-HT efflux in the nucleus accumbens following foot shock and in association with a conditioned emotional response (CER). Isolation- and group-reared rats received i.p. injections of either saline (0.9%) or AMPT (200 mg/kg) 15 h and 2 h prior to sampling. There was no significant difference between saline-treated isolation- or group-reared rats for basal efflux of dopamine or 5-HT, however as expected, AMPT-treatment significantly reduced dopamine efflux in both groups to an equivalent level (50-55% saline-treated controls). Exposure to mild foot shock stimulated basal dopamine efflux in saline-treated groups only, although the effect was significantly greater in isolation-reared rats. In AMPT-treated rats, foot shock did not affect basal dopamine efflux in either rearing group. Foot shock evoked a prolonged increase in 5-HT efflux in both isolation- and group-reared saline-treated rats but had no effect on 5-HT efflux in AMPT-treated rats. In response to CER, isolation-rearing was associated with significantly greater efflux of both dopamine and 5-HT in saline-treated rats, compared to saline-treated, group-reared controls. However in AMPT-treated rats, efflux of dopamine or 5-HT did not change in response to CER. These data suggest that unconditioned or conditioned stress-induced changes in 5-HT release of the nucleus accumbens are dependent upon intact catecholaminergic neurotransmission. Furthermore, as the contribution of noradrenaline to catecholamine efflux in the nucleus accumbens is relatively minor compared to dopamine, our findings suggest that dopamine efflux in the nucleus accumbens is important for the local regulation of 5-HT release in this region. Finally, these findings implicate the isolation-enhanced presynaptic dopamine function in the accumbens with the augmented ventral striatal 5-HT neurotransmission characterized by isolation-reared rats.
In normal brain, we previously demonstrated that the exon-9 skipping form of glutamate-aspartate transporter (GLAST; which we refer to as GLAST1b) is expressed by small populations of neurons that appear to be sick or dying and suggested that these cells were subject to inappropriate local glutamate-mediated excitation. To test this hypothesis we examined the expression of GLAST1b in the hypoxic pig brain. In this model glial glutamate transporters such as GLAST and glutamate transporter 1 (GLT-1) are down-regulated in susceptible regions, leading to regional loss of glutamate homeostasis and thus to brain damage. We demonstrate by immunohistochemistry that in those brain regions where astroglial glutamate transporters are lost, GLAST1b expression is induced in populations of neurons and to a lesser extent in some astrocytes. These neurons were also immunolabeled by antibodies against the carboxyl-terminal region of GLAST but did not label with antibodies directed against the amino-terminal region. Our Western blotting data indicate that GLAST1b expressed by neurons lacks the normal GLAST amino-terminal region and may be further cleaved to a smaller approximately 30-kDa fragment. We propose that GLAST1b represents a novel and sensitive marker for the detection of neurons at risk of dying in response to hypoxic and other excitotoxic insults and may have wider applicability in experimental and clinical contexts.
We have recently found that a combination of ovariectomy (OVX) and chronic restraint stress causes cognitive dysfunction and reduces hippocampal CA3 neurons in female rats and that estrogen replacement suppresses the OVX/stress-induced behavioral and morphological changes. In this study, we examined the effect of Ginkgo biloba extract (EGb 761), a popular herbal supplement, on the cognitive dysfunction and neuromorphological change in OVX/stress-subjected rats. Female Fisher 344 rats were randomly divided into three groups: vehicle-treated OVX, EGb 761 (50 mg/kg) -treated OVX and vehicle-treated sham-operated control groups. Two months after ovariectomy, all animals received restraint stress for 21 days (6 h/day), and were then subjected to a novel object recognition test followed by morphological examination by Nissl staining. EGb 761 was orally administered once daily until the behavioral analysis was done. Treatment with EGb 761 improved memory impairment and neuronal loss of hippocampus in the OVX/stress-subjected group in the same ways as 17beta-estradiol. On the other hand, EGb 761 did not affect the loss of bone mineral density and increase in body weight after OVX, although 17beta-estradiol attenuated them. These results have important implications for neuroprotective and cognition enhancing effects of EGb 761 in postmenopausal women and suggest that the effects are mediated by a different mechanism from estrogen.
The purpose of our nervous system is to allow us to successfully interact with our environment. This normative idea is formalized by decision theory that defines which choices would be most beneficial. We live in an uncertain world, and each decision may have many possible outcomes; choosing the best decision is thus complicated. Bayesian decision theory formalizes these problems in the presence of uncertainty and often provides compact models that predict observed behavior. With its elegant formalization of the problems faced by the nervous system, it promises to become a major inspiration for studies in neuroscience.
By combining the models and tasks of Game Theory with modern psychological and neuroscientific methods, the neuroeconomic approach to the study of social decision-making has the potential to extend our knowledge of brain mechanisms involved in social decisions and to advance theoretical models of how we make decisions in a rich, interactive environment. Research has already begun to illustrate how social exchange can act directly on the brain's reward system, how affective factors play an important role in bargaining and competitive games, and how the ability to assess another's intentions is related to strategic play. These findings provide a fruitful starting point for improved models of social decision-making, informed by the formal mathematical approach of economics and constrained by known neural mechanisms.





Although the neurobiology of autism has been studied for more than two decades, the majority of these studies have examined brain structure 10, 20, or more years after the onset of clinical symptoms. The pathological biology that causes autism remains unknown, but its signature is likely to be most evident during the first years of life when clinical symptoms are emerging. This review highlights neurobiological findings during the first years of life and emphasizes early brain overgrowth as a key factor in the pathobiology of autism. We speculate that excess neuron numbers may be one possible cause of early brain overgrowth and produce defects in neural patterning and wiring, with exuberant local and short-distance cortical interactions impeding the function of large-scale, long-distance interactions between brain regions. Because large-scale networks underlie socio-emotional and communication functions, such alterations in brain architecture could relate to the early clinical manifestations of autism. As such, autism may additionally provide unique insight into genetic and developmental processes that shape early neural wiring patterns and make possible higher-order social, emotional, and communication functions.
Maps of sensory receptor epithelia and computed features of the sensory environment are common elements of auditory, visual, and somatic sensory representations from the periphery to the cerebral cortex. Maps enhance the understanding of normal neural organization and its modification by pathology and experience. They underlie the derivation of the computational principles that govern sensory processing and the generation of perception. Despite their intuitive explanatory power, the functions of and rules for organizing maps and their plasticity are not well understood. Some puzzles of auditory cortical map organization are that few complete receptor maps are available and that even fewer computational maps are known beyond primary cortical areas. Neuroanatomical evidence suggests equally organized connectional patterns throughout the cortical hierarchy that might underlie map stability. Here, we consider the implications of auditory cortical map organization and its plasticity and evaluate the complementary role of maps in representation and computation from an auditory perspective.
The neocortex of mammals is composed of cortical fields that have a unique organization associated with the animal's ecological niche and lifestyle. Each cortical field has a specific pattern of connections with other cortical fields and brain structures, and together they comprise a neocortical network that generates a variety of behaviors. These networks and the behaviors they generate are variable across mammals, and are particularly complex in some species such as humans. Here I discuss the mechanisms that contribute to neocortical organization in mammals, and how this organization has been altered to generate the variability that exists in different lineages.
How specific aspects of a stimulus are encoded at different stages of neural processing is a critical question in sensory neuroscience. In the present study, we investigated the neural code underlying the perception of stimulus intensity in the somatosensory system. We first characterized the responses of SA1 (slowly adapting type 1), RA (rapidly adapting), and PC (Pacinian) afferents of macaque monkeys to sinusoidal, diharmonic, and bandpass noise stimuli. We then had human subjects rate the perceived intensity of a subset of these stimuli. On the basis of these neurophysiological and psychophysical measurements, we evaluated a series of hypotheses about which aspect(s) of the neural activity evoked at the somatosensory periphery account for perception. We evaluated three types of neural codes. The first consisted of population codes based on the firing rate of neurons located directly under the probe. The second included population codes based on the firing rate of the entire population of active neurons. The third included codes based on the number of active afferents. We found that the response evoked in the localized population is logarithmic with stimulus amplitude (given a constant frequency composition), whereas the population response across all neurons is linear with stimulus amplitude. We conclude that stimulus intensity is best accounted for by the firing rate evoked in afferents located under or near the locus of stimulation, weighted by afferent type.
Gq-coupled, M1 muscarinic acetylcholine receptors (mAChRs) facilitate hippocampal learning, memory, and synaptic plasticity. M1 mAChRs induce long-term synaptic depression (LTD), but little is known about the underlying mechanisms of mAChR-dependent LTD and its link to cognitive function. Here, we demonstrate that chemical activation of M1 mAChRs induces LTD in hippocampal area CA1, which relies on rapid protein synthesis, as well as the extracellular signal-regulated kinase and mammalian target of rapamycin translational activation pathways. Synaptic stimulation of M1 mAChRs, alone, or together with the Gq-coupled glutamate receptors (mGluRs), also results in protein synthesis-dependent LTD. New proteins maintain mAChR-dependent LTD through a persistent decrease in surface AMPA receptors. mAChRs stimulate translation of the RNA-binding protein, Fragile X mental retardation protein (FMRP) and FMRP target mRNAs. In mice without FMRP (Fmr1 knock-out), a model for human Fragile X syndrome mental retardation (FXS), both mGluR- and mAChR-dependent protein synthesis and LTD are affected. Our results reveal that multiple Gq-coupled receptors converge on a common protein synthesis-dependent LTD mechanism, which is aberrant in FXS. These findings suggest novel therapeutic strategies for FXS in the form of mAChR antagonists.
The extracellular membrane surface contains a substantial amount of negatively charged sialic acid residues. Some of the sialic acids are located close to the pore of voltage-gated channel, substantially influencing their gating properties. However, the role of sialylation of the extracellular membrane in modulation of neuronal and network activity remains primarily unknown. The level of sialylation is controlled by neuraminidase (NEU), the key enzyme that cleaves sialic acids. Here we show that NEU treatment causes a large depolarizing shift of voltage-gated sodium channel activation/inactivation and action potential (AP) threshold without any change in the resting membrane potential of hippocampal CA3 pyramidal neurons. Cleavage of sialic acids by NEU also reduced sensitivity of sodium channel gating and AP threshold to extracellular calcium. At the network level, exogenous NEU exerted powerful anticonvulsive action both in vitro and in acute and chronic in vivo models of epilepsy. In contrast, a NEU blocker (N-acetyl-2,3-dehydro-2-deoxyneuraminic acid) dramatically reduced seizure threshold and aggravated hippocampal seizures. Thus, sialylation appears to be a powerful mechanism to control neuronal and network excitability. We propose that decreasing the amount of extracellular sialic acid residues can be a useful approach to reduce neuronal excitability and serve as a novel therapeutic approach in the treatment of seizures.
A major problem in treating obesity is high rates of relapse to maladaptive food-taking habits during dieting. This relapse is often provoked by acute re-exposure to palatable food, food-associated cues, or stress. We used a reinstatement model, commonly used to study relapse to abused drugs, to explore the effect of peptide YY3-36 (PYY3-36) on reinstatement of high-fat (35%, 45 mg pellets) food seeking induced by acute exposure to the pellets (pellet priming), a cue previously associated with pellet delivery (pellet cue), or yohimbine (2 mg/kg, a pharmacological stressor). Rats were placed on a restricted diet (16 g of chow per day) and lever-pressed for the pellets for 9-12 sessions (6 h/d, every 48 h); pellet delivery was paired with a tone-light cue. They were then given 10-20 extinction sessions wherein lever presses were not reinforced with the pellets and subsequently tested for reinstatement of food seeking. Systemic PYY3-36 injections (100-200 microg/kg) decreased pellet priming- and pellet cue-induced reinstatement of food seeking but not yohimbine-induced reinstatement. Arcuate nucleus (Arc) injections of PYY3-36 (0.4 microg per side) decreased pellet priming-induced reinstatement. The attenuation of pellet priming-induced reinstatement by systemic PYY3-36 was reversed by systemic (2 mg/kg) but not Arc (0.5 microg per side) injections of the Y2 receptor antagonist BIIE0246. Arc PYY3-36 injections did not decrease pellet cue-induced reinstatement. Finally, systemic PYY3-36 injections had minimal effects on ongoing food self-administration or heroin priming- or heroin cue-induced reinstatement of heroin seeking. These data identify an effect of systemic PYY3-36 on relapse to food seeking that is independent of Y2 receptor activation in Arc and suggest that PYY3-36 should be considered for the treatment of relapse to maladaptive food-taking habits during dieting.
NMDA receptors mediate excitatory postsynaptic potentials throughout the brain but, paradoxically, NMDA receptor antagonists produce cortical excitation in humans and behaving rodents. To elucidate a mechanism for these diverging effects, we examined the effect of use-dependent inhibition of NMDA receptors on the spontaneous activity of putative GABA interneurons and pyramidal neurons in the prefrontal cortex of awake rats. We find that inhibition of NMDA receptors predominately decreases the activity of putative GABA interneurons but, at a delayed rate, increases the firing rate of the majority of pyramidal neurons. Thus, NMDA receptors preferentially drive the activity of cortical inhibitory interneurons suggesting that NMDA receptor inhibition causes cortical excitation by disinhibition of pyramidal neurons. These findings support the hypothesis that NMDA receptor hypofunction, which has been implicated in the pathophysiology of schizophrenia, diminishes the inhibitory control of PFC output neurons. Reducing this effect may be critical for treatment of schizophrenia.
Trisomy 21, one of the most prevalent congenital birth defects, results in a constellation of phenotypes collectively termed Down syndrome (DS). Mental retardation and motor and sensory deficits are among the many debilitating symptoms of DS. Alterations in brain growth and synaptic development are thought to underlie the cognitive impairments in DS, but the role of early brain development has not been studied because of the lack of embryonic human tissue and because of breeding difficulties in mouse models of DS. We generated a breeding colony of the Ts65Dn mouse model of DS to test the hypothesis that early defects in embryonic brain development are a component of brain dysfunction in DS. We found substantial delays in prenatal growth of the Ts65Dn cerebral cortex and hippocampus because of longer cell cycle duration and reduced neurogenesis from the ventricular zone neural precursor population. In addition, the Ts65Dn neocortex remains hypocellular after birth and there is a lasting decrease in synaptic development beginning in the first postnatal week. These results demonstrate that specific abnormalities in embryonic forebrain precursor cells precede early deficits in synaptogenesis and may underlie the postnatal disabilities in Ts65Dn and DS. The early prenatal period is therefore an important new window for possible therapeutic amelioration of the cognitive symptoms in DS.
Humans devote much time to the exchange of memories within the context of shared general and personal semantic knowledge. Our hypothesis was that functional imaging in normal subjects would demonstrate the convergence of speech comprehension and production on high-order heteromodal and amodal cortical areas implicated in declarative memory functions. Activity independent of speech phase (that is, comprehension and production) was most evident in the left and right lateral anterior temporal cortex. Significant activity was also observed in the posterior cortex, ventral to the angular gyri. The left and right hippocampus and adjacent inferior temporal cortex were active during speech comprehension, compatible with mnemonic encoding of narrative information, but activity was significantly less during the overt memory retrieval associated with speech production. Therefore, although clinical studies suggest that hippocampal function is necessary for the retrieval as well as the encoding of memories, the former appears to depend on much less net synaptic activity. In contrast, the retrosplenial/posterior cingulate cortex and the parahippocampal area, which are closely associated anatomically with the hippocampus, were equally active during both speech comprehension and production. The results demonstrate why a severe and persistent inability both to understand and produce meaningful speech in the absence of an impairment to process linguistic forms is usually only observed after bilateral, and particularly anterior, destruction of the temporal lobes, and emphasize the importance of retrosplenial/posterior cingulate cortex, an area known to be affected early in the course of Alzheimer's disease, in the processing of memories during communication.
New studies on the molecular logic of synapse specificity in the fly and worm have brought neurobiologists back to an ancient family of morphogens best known for establishing pattern in the early embryonic nervous system.
Septins are GTP-binding proteins that polymerize into heteromeric filaments and form microscopic bundles or ring structures in vitro and in vivo. Because of these properties and their ability to associate with membrane, F-actin, and microtubules, septins have been generally regarded as cytoskeletal components [1, 2]. Septins are known to play roles in cytokinesis, in membrane trafficking, and as structural scaffolds; however, their function in neurons is poorly understood. Many members of the septin family, including Septin 7 (Sept7), were found by mass-spectrometry analysis of postsynaptic density (PSD) fractions of the brain [3, 4], suggesting a possible postsynaptic function of septins in neurons. We report that Sept7 is localized at the base of dendritic protrusions and at dendritic branch points in cultured hippocampal neurons--a distribution reminiscent of septin localization in the bud neck of budding yeast. Overexpression of Sept7 increased dendrite branching and the density of dendritic protrusions, whereas RNA interference (RNAi)-mediated knockdown of Sept7 led to reduced dendrite arborization and a greater proportion of immature protrusions. These data suggest that Sept7 is critical for spine morphogenesis and dendrite development during neuronal maturation.
Wiring cost minimization has successfully explained many structures of nervous systems. However, in the nematode Caenorhabditis elegans, for which anatomical data are most detailed, wiring economy is thought to play only a partial role and alone has failed to account for the grouping of neurons into ganglia [Chen BL, Hall DH, Chklovskii DB (2006) Proc Natl Acad Sci USA 103:4723-4728; Kaiser M, Hilgetag CC (2006) PLoS Comput Biol 2:e95; Ahn Y-Y, Jeong H, Kim BJ (2006) Physica A 367:531-537]. Here, we test the hypothesis that optimally wired subnetworks can exist within nonoptimal networks, thus allowing wiring economy to give an improved prediction of spatial structure. We show in C. elegans that the small subnetwork of wires connecting sensory and motor neurons with sensors and muscles, comprising only 15% of connections, is close to optimal and alone predicts the main features of the spatial segregation of neurons into ganglia and encephalization. Moreover, a method to dissect networks into optimal and nonoptimal components is shown to find a large near-optimal subnetwork of 84% of neurons with a very low position error of 5.4%, and that explains clustering of neurons into ganglia and encephalization to fine detail. In general, we expect realistic networks not to be globally optimal in wire cost. We thus propose the strategy of using near-optimal subnetworks to understand neuroanatomical structure.
Prosopagnosia is a deficit in face recognition in the presence of relatively normal object recognition. Together with older lesion studies, recent brain-imaging results provide evidence for the closely related representations of faces and objects and, more recently, for brain areas sensitive to faces and bodies. This evidence raises the issue of whether developmental prosopagnosics may also have an impairment in encoding bodies. We investigated the first stages of face, body, and object perception in four developmental prosopagnosics by comparing event-related potentials to canonically and upside-down presented stimuli. Normal configural encoding was absent in three of four developmental prosopagnosics for faces at the P1 and for both faces and bodies at the N170 component. Our results demonstrate that prosopagnosics do not have this normal processing routine readily available for faces or bodies. A profound face recognition deficit characteristic of developmental prosopagnosia may not necessarily originate in a category-specific face recognition deficit in the initial stages of development. It may also have its roots in anomalous processing of the configuration, a visual routine that is important for other stimuli besides faces. Faces and bodies trigger configuration-based visual strategies that are crucial in initial stages of stimulus encoding but also serve to bootstrap the acquisition of more feature-based visual skills that progressively build up in the course of development.
In humans, the wakeful resting condition is characterized by a default mode of brain function involving high levels of activity within a functionally connected network of brain regions. This network has recently been implicated in mental self-projection into the past, the future, or another individual's perspective. Here we use [(18)F]-fluorodeoxyglucose positron emission tomography imaging to assess resting-state brain activity in our closest living relative, the chimpanzee, as a potential window onto their mental world and compare these results with those of a human sample. We find that, like humans, chimpanzees show high levels of activity within default mode areas, including medial prefrontal and medial parietal cortex. Chimpanzees differ from our human sample in showing higher levels of activity in ventromedial prefrontal cortex and lower levels of activity in left-sided cortical areas involved in language and conceptual processing in humans. Our results raise the possibility that the resting state of chimpanzees involves emotionally laden episodic memory retrieval and some level of mental self-projection, albeit in the absence of language and conceptual processing.

It is now widely accepted that good welfare is not simply the absence of negative experiences, but rather is primarily the presence of positive experiences such as pleasure. However scientific investigation of positive emotions has long been neglected. This paper addresses two main issues: first, it reviews the current state of scientific knowledge that supports the existence of positive affective states in animals and, second, it suggests possible applications of this knowledge that may enhance quality of life under animal management conditions. In the first part of the paper, recent advances in psychology and neuroscience are reviewed to provide pragmatic frameworks based on cognitive processes (such as positive anticipation, contrast and controllability) for further investigations of positive emotions in animals. Thereafter, the neurobiological bases of positive emotions are highlighted in order to identify behavioral and physiological expressions of positive experiences in animals. Monitoring both the autonomic nervous system (via heart rate and its variability) and the immune system could offer relevant tools to better assess emotional states in animals, complementary to classical adrenocortical measures. In the second part of the paper, useful strategies for enhancing positive experiences (such as physical, social and cognitive enrichment or putative genetic selection) are outlined. Then this paper emphasizes practical applications for assessing and promoting positive emotions that may help in providing animals with a better quality of life. Play, affiliative behaviors and some vocalizations appear to be the most promising convenient indicators for assessing positive experiences in laboratory and farm animals under commercial conditions.
Recent research in cognitive neuroscience has found that observation of human actions activates the 'mirror system' and provokes automatic imitation to a greater extent than observation of non-biological movements. The present study investigated whether this human bias depends primarily on phylogenetic or ontogenetic factors by examining the effects of sensorimotor experience on automatic imitation of non-biological robotic, stimuli. Automatic imitation of human and robotic action stimuli was assessed before and after training. During these test sessions, participants were required to execute a pre-specified response (e.g. to open their hand) while observing a human or robotic hand making a compatible (opening) or incompatible (closing) movement. During training, participants executed opening and closing hand actions while observing compatible (group CT) or incompatible movements (group IT) of a robotic hand. Compatible, but not incompatible, training increased automatic imitation of robotic stimuli (speed of responding on compatible trials, compared with incompatible trials) and abolished the human bias observed at pre-test. These findings suggest that the development of the mirror system depends on sensorimotor experience, and that, in our species, it is biased in favour of human action stimuli because these are more abundant than non-biological action stimuli in typical developmental environments.
Many psychotropics prescribed to children are unlicensed or off-label. This article uses the two most prescribed psychotropics (MPH and SSRIs) to illustrate various concerns about their impact on youth. Many mental illnesses begin in childhood or early adulthood, warranting a treatment of some kind. However, commentators have argued that prescribing is influenced by five myths: (1) children are little adults; (2) children have no reason to develop depression or anxiety; (3) psychiatric disorders are the same across adults and children; (3) children can be prescribed lower doses of the same drug; (5) drugs are preferable to alternative treatments and are more successful. Several lines of evidence suggest that these are incorrect assumptions. We update readers with recent research in relation to these myths, concluding that researchers should clarify child/adult differences for psychotropics, attend to the growth of &quot;cosmetic&quot; use of psychotropics in children and adolescents, and address concerns about the diagnostic validity of mental illness in the current DSM classification system.
MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are small noncoding RNAs, with a length of 19-23 nucleotides, which appear to be involved in the regulation of gene expression by inhibiting the translation of messenger RNAs carrying partially or nearly complementary sequences to the miRNAs in their 3' untranslated regions. Expression analysis of miRNAs is necessary to understand their complex role in the regulation of gene expression during the development, differentiation and proliferation of cells. Here we report on the expression profile analysis of miRNAs in human teratocarcinoma NTere2D1, mouse embryonic carcinoma P19, mouse neuroblastoma Neuro2a and rat pheochromocytoma PC12D cells, which can be induced into differentiated cells with long neuritic processes, i.e., after cell differentiation, such that the resultant cells look similar to neuronal cells. The data presented here indicate marked changes in the expression of miRNAs, as well as genes related to neuronal development, occurred in the differentiation of NTera2D1 and P19 cells. Significant changes in miRNA expression were not observed in Neuro2a and PC12D cells, although they showed apparent morphologic change between undifferentiated and differentiated cells. Of the miRNAs investigated, the expression of miRNAs belonging to the miR-302 cluster, which is known to be specifically expressed in embryonic stem cells, and of miR-124a specific to the brain, appeared to be markedly changed. The miR-302 cluster was potently expressed in undifferentiated NTera2D1 and P19 cells, but hardly in differentiated cells, such that miR-124a showed an opposite expression pattern to the miR-302 cluster. Based on these observations, it is suggested that the miR-302 cluster and miR-124a may be useful molecular indicators in the assessment of degree of undifferentiation and/or differentiation in the course of neuronal differentiation.
Deep brain stimulation (DBS) is an increasingly used clinical treatment for various neurological disorders, particularly movement disorders such as Parkinson's disease. However, the mechanism by which these high frequency electrical pulses act on neuronal activity is unclear. Once the stimulating electrode is placed in situ, an electrode-brain interface (EBI) is created. To compensate for the lack of studies on the effects of this generic depth EBI on therapeutic DBS, we constructed a three-dimensional computational model of the EBI using the finite element method, in which the structural details and biophysical properties of the EBI are preserved. Our investigations focus on the peri-electrode space as a significant element of the EBI, and its physiological and pathological modulation, in particular by brain pulsation and giant cell formation. We also consider the difference between the current fields induced by different configurations of the quadripolar electrode contacts. These results quantitatively demonstrated that the peri-electrode space is a significant element of the EBI and its biophysical properties are modulated by brain pulsation and giant cell formation, as well as by the choice of electrode contact configuration. This study leads to a fuller understanding of the EBI and its effects on the crossing electric currents, and will ultimately lead to optimisation of the therapeutic effects of DBS.
Over the past 76 years Alberto Stefanelli has successfully used a comparative approach to study the nervous system. His main research focus during that time has been on identifiable reticulospinal neurons including Mller and Mauthner neurons found in anamniotic vertebrates. Born in Venice, Italy in 1908, Professor Stefanelli pursued most of his academic career at the University of Rome, where he retired as Chair of Comparative Anatomy in 1978. His seminal work on the constancy in number and position of giant identifiable reticulospinal neurons in the brains of larval and adult lampreys, and his assertion that only a subset of these neurons were Mller cells, provided the framework in which subsequent authors have refined our understanding of the cellular anatomy, axonal projections, physiology, and function of Mller cells in the control of movement. Stefanelli has also provided the most comprehensive study to date of the Mauthner cell and its axon cap. His description of the differences in axon cap structure among many fishes and amphibians and his use of the &quot;morpho-ecological&quot; approach to determine Mauthner cell function has provided the basis for future studies on the neuronal basis of behavior and its evolution. As Professor Stefanelli approaches his 100th birthday, we celebrate his scientific contributions to comparative neuroscience with a biographical sketch of his life, an overview of his scientific accomplishments, and our view of how his comparative studies continue to contribute to our understanding of the nervous system.
Polymerization of actin filaments powers many dynamic cellular events and is directed by a small group of actin nucleators. In this issue, Ahuja et al. (2007) identify and characterize a new actin nucleator called cordon-bleu (Cobl) that may drive morphogenesis of the central nervous system during development.
The neuronal K-Cl cotransporter KCC2 maintains the low intracellular chloride concentration required for the hyperpolarizing actions of inhibitory neurotransmitters gamma-aminobutyric acid and glycine in the central nervous system. This study shows that the mammalian KCC2 gene (alias Slc12a5) generates two neuron-specific isoforms by using alternative promoters and first exons. The novel KCC2a isoform differs from the only previously known KCC2 isoform (now termed KCC2b) by 40 unique N-terminal amino acid residues, including a putative Ste20-related proline alanine-rich kinase-binding site. Ribonuclease protection and quantitative PCR assays indicated that KCC2a contributes 20-50% of total KCC2 mRNA expression in the neonatal mouse brain stem and spinal cord. In contrast to the marked increase in KCC2b mRNA levels in the cortex during postnatal development, the overall expression of KCC2a remains relatively constant and makes up only 5-10% of total KCC2 mRNA in the mature cortex. A rubidium uptake assay in human embryonic kidney 293 cells showed that the KCC2a isoform mediates furosemide-sensitive ion transport activity comparable with that of KCC2b. Mice that lack both KCC2 isoforms die at birth due to severe motor defects, including disrupted respiratory rhythm, whereas mice with a targeted disruption of the first exon of KCC2b survive for up to 2 weeks but eventually die due to spontaneous seizures. We show that these mice lack KCC2b but retain KCC2a mRNA. Thus, distinct populations of neurons show a differential dependence on the expression of the two isoforms: KCC2a expression in the absence of KCC2b is presumably sufficient to support vital neuronal functions in the brain stem and spinal cord but not in the cortex.

Protein kinase CK2 is an ubiquitous and constitutively active kinase, which phosphorylates many cellular proteins and is implicated in the regulation of cell survival, proliferation and transformation. We investigated its possible involvement in the multidrug resistance phenotype (MDR) by analysing its level in two variants of CEM cells, namely S-CEM and R-CEM, normally sensitive or resistant to chemical apoptosis, respectively. We found that, while the CK2 regulatory subunit beta was equally expressed in the two cell variants, CK2alpha catalytic subunit was higher in R-CEM and this was accompanied by a higher phosphorylation of endogenous protein substrates. Pharmacological downregulation of CK2 activity by a panel of specific inhibitors, or knockdown of CK2alpha expression by RNA interference, were able to induce cell death in R-CEM. CK2 inhibitors could promote an increased uptake of chemotherapeutic drugs inside the cells and sensitize them to drug-induced apoptosis in a co-operative manner. CK2 blockade was also effective in inducing cell death of a different MDR line (U2OS). We therefore conclude that inhibition of CK2 can be considered as a promising tool to revert the MDR phenotype.
Electrophysiological recordings from monkeys, as well as functional imaging and neuropsychological work with humans, have suggested that a region in the anterior portion of the intraparietal sulcus (aIPS) is involved in prehensile movements. With recent methodological advances using transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS), we can now causally attribute anatomy with function to more precisely determine the specific involvement of aIPS in grasping. It has recently been demonstrated that aIPS is specifically involved in executing a grasp under conditions of both constant target requirements, as well as in correcting a movement under conditions in which a target perturbation occurs. In the present study, we extend these findings by determining the differential contribution of the left and right hemisphere to executing a grasping movement with the left and right hands. Transient disruption of left aIPS at movement onset impairs grasping with the right but not the left hand, and disruption of right aIPS impairs grasping with the left but not the right hand. We conclude that grasping is a lateralized process, relying exclusively on the contralateral hemisphere, and discuss the implications of these findings in relationship to models of hemispheric dominance for motor control.
The maternal use of cannabis during pregnancy results in a number of cognitive deficits in the offspring that persist into adulthood. The endocannabinoid system has a role to play in neurodevelopmental processes such as neurogenesis, migration and synaptogenesis. However, exposure to phytocannabinoids, such as Delta(9)-tetrahydrocannabinol, during gestation may interfere with these events to cause abnormal patterns of neuronal wiring and subsequent cognitive impairments. Aberrant cell death evoked by Delta(9)-tetrahydrocannabinol may also contribute to cognitive deficits and in cultured neurones Delta(9)-tetrahydrocannabinol induces apoptosis via the CB(1) cannabinoid receptor. In this study we report that Delta(9)-tetrahydrocannabinol (5-50 microM) activates the stress-activated protein kinase, c-jun N-terminal kinase, and the pro-apoptotic protease, caspase-3, in in vitro cerebral cortical slices obtained from the neonatal rat brain. The proclivity of Delta(9)-tetrahydrocannabinol to impact on these pro-apoptotic signalling molecules was not observed in in vitro cortical slices obtained from the adult rat brain. In vivo, subcutaneous administration of Delta(9)-tetrahydrocannabinol (1-30 mg/kg) activated c-jun N-terminal kinase, caspase-3 and cathepsin-D, and induced DNA fragmentation in the cerebral cortex of neonatal rats. In contrast, in vivo administration of Delta(9)-tetrahydrocannabinol to adult rats was not associated with the apoptotic pathway in the cerebral cortex. The data provide evidence which supports the hypothesis that the neonatal rat brain is more vulnerable to the neurotoxic influence of Delta(9)-tetrahydrocannabinol, suggesting that the cognitive deficits that are observed in humans exposed to marijuana during gestation may be due, in part, to abnormal engagement of the apoptotic cascade during brain development.


The brain should integrate related but not unrelated information from different senses. Temporal patterning of inputs to different modalities may provide critical information about whether those inputs are related or not. We studied effects of temporal correspondence between auditory and visual streams on human brain activity with functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI). Streams of visual flashes with irregularly jittered, arrhythmic timing could appear on right or left, with or without a stream of auditory tones that coincided perfectly when present (highly unlikely by chance), were noncoincident with vision (different erratic, arrhythmic pattern with same temporal statistics), or an auditory stream appeared alone. fMRI revealed blood oxygenation level-dependent (BOLD) increases in multisensory superior temporal sulcus (mSTS), contralateral to a visual stream when coincident with an auditory stream, and BOLD decreases for noncoincidence relative to unisensory baselines. Contralateral primary visual cortex and auditory cortex were also affected by audiovisual temporal correspondence or noncorrespondence, as confirmed in individuals. Connectivity analyses indicated enhanced influence from mSTS on primary sensory areas, rather than vice versa, during audiovisual correspondence. Temporal correspondence between auditory and visual streams affects a network of both multisensory (mSTS) and sensory-specific areas in humans, including even primary visual and auditory cortex, with stronger responses for corresponding and thus related audiovisual inputs.
Evidence supports a dysregulation of subcortical dopamine (DA) system function as a common etiology of psychosis; however, the factors responsible for this aberrant DA system responsivity have not been delineated. Here, we demonstrate in an animal model of schizophrenia that a pathologically enhanced drive from the ventral hippocampus (vHipp) can result in aberrant dopamine neuron signaling. Adult rats in which development was disrupted by prenatal methylazoxymethanol acetate (MAM) administration display a significantly greater number of spontaneously firing ventral tegmental DA neurons. This appears to be a consequence of excessive hippocampal activity because, in MAM-treated rats, vHipp inactivation completely reversed the elevated DA neuron population activity and also normalized the augmented amphetamine-induced locomotor behavior. These data provide a direct link between hippocampal dysfunction and the hyper-responsivity of the DA system that is believed to underlie the augmented response to amphetamine in animal models and psychosis in schizophrenia patients.
The corpus callosum is the largest commissural system in the mammalian brain, but the mechanisms underlying its development are not well understood. Here we report that neuronal activity is necessary for the normal development and maintenance of callosal projections in the mouse somatosensory cortex. We labeled a subpopulation of layer II/III callosal neurons via in utero electroporation and traced their axons in the contralateral cortex at different postnatal stages. Callosal axons displayed region- and layer-specific projection patterns within the first 2 weeks postnatally. Prenatal suppression of neuronal excitation was achieved via electroporation-induced overexpression of the inward rectifying potassium channel Kir2.1 in layer II/III cortical neurons. This resulted in abnormal callosal projections with many axons extending beyond layers II-III to terminate in layer I. Others failed to terminate at the border between the primary and secondary somatosensory cortices. Blocking synaptic transmission via expression of the tetanus toxin light chain (TeNT-LC) in these axons produced a more pronounced reduction in the projections to the border region, and the eventual disappearance of callosal projections over the entire somatosensory cortex. When Kir2.1 and TeNT-LC were coexpressed, callosal axon targeting exhibited a more severe phenotype that appeared to represent the addition of the effects produced by individual expression of Kir2.1 and TeNT-LC. These results underscore the importance of activity in regulating the developing neural connections and suggest that neuronal and synaptic activities are involved in regulating different aspects of the development of callosal projection.
Although cerebellar Purkinje cell complex spikes occur at low frequency (approximately 1/s), each complex spike is often associated with a high-frequency burst (approximately 500/s) of climbing fiber spikes. We examined the possibility that signals are present within the climbing fiber bursts. By intracellularly recording from depolarized, nonspiking Purkinje cells in anesthetized pigmented rabbits, climbing fiber burst patterns were investigated by determining the number of components in the induced compound EPSPs during spontaneous activity and during visual stimulation. For our sample of 43 cells, &gt;70% of all EPSPs were of the compound type composed of two or three EPSPs. During spontaneous activity, the number of components in each compound EPSP was not related to the latency to the succeeding compound EPSP. Conversely, the number of components in each compound EPSP was related to its latency after the preceding compound EPSP. This latency increased from 0.62 s for one-component EPSPs to 1.69 s for compound EPSPs with four or more components. The effect of visual stimulation on the climbing fiber activity was studied in 19 floccular Purkinje cells whose low-frequency interburst climbing fiber response was modulated by movement about the vertical axis. During sinusoidal oscillation (0.1 Hz, +/-10 degrees), compound EPSPs with a larger number of components tended to be more prevalent during movement in the excitatory direction than in the inhibitory direction. Thus, climbing fibers can, in addition to modulation of their low interburst frequency, transmit signals in the form of the number of spikes within each high-frequency burst.
Recent single-cell studies in monkeys (Romo et al., 2004) show that the activity of neurons in the ventral premotor cortex covaries with the animal's decisions in a perceptual comparison task regarding the frequency of vibrotactile events. The firing rate response of these neurons was dependent only on the frequency differences between the two applied vibrations, the sign of that difference being the determining factor for correct task performance. We present a biophysically realistic neurodynamical model that can account for the most relevant characteristics of this decision-making-related neural activity. One of the nontrivial predictions of this model is that Weber's law will underlie the perceptual discrimination behavior. We confirmed this prediction in behavioral tests of vibrotactile discrimination in humans and propose a computational explanation of perceptual discrimination that accounts naturally for the emergence of Weber's law. We conclude that the neurodynamical mechanisms and computational principles underlying the decision-making processes in this perceptual discrimination task are consistent with a fluctuation-driven scenario in a multistable regime.



Little is known regarding the mechanism(s) by which glycine receptors are endocytosed. Here we examined the endocytosis of homomeric alpha1 glycine receptors expressed in HEK 293 cells using immunofluorescence/confocal microscopy and whole-cell patch-clamp recordings. Our studies demonstrate that constitutive endocytosis of glycine receptors is blocked by the dominant negative dynamin construct K44A and that intracellular dialysis with peptide P4, a dynamin/amphiphysin-disrupting peptide, increased whole-cell glycine-gated chloride currents. To examine whether receptor endocytosis could be regulated by PKC, experiments with the PKC activator PMA (phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate) were performed. PMA, but not its inactive analogue PMM (phorbol 12-monomyristate), stimulated receptor endocytosis and inhibited glycine-gated chloride currents. Similar to constitutive endocytosis, PKC-stimulated endocytosis was blocked by dynamin K44A. Mutation of a putative AP2 adaptin dileucine motif (L314A, L315A) present in the receptor cytoplasmic loop blocked PMA-stimulated receptor endocytosis and also prevented PMA inhibition of glycine receptor currents. In patch-clamp experiments, intracellular dialysis of a 12-amino acid peptide corresponding to the region of the receptor containing the dileucine motif prevented PKC modulation of wild-type glycine receptors. Unlike PKC modulation of the receptor, constitutive endocytosis was not affected by mutation of this dileucine motif. These results demonstrate that PKC activation stimulates glycine receptor endocytosis, that both constitutive endocytosis and PKC-stimulated endocytosis are dynamin-dependent, and that PKC-stimulated endocytosis, but not constitutive endocytosis, occurs via the dileucine motif (L314A, L315A) within the cytoplasmic loop of the receptor.
Aquaporin-4 (AQP4) has been reported to be upregulated post-partum in pregnancy and in early lung development. Several technical challenges exist in measuring AQP4 protein levels, among them sensitivity to detergent solubilization, sample heating and gel composition. Here we have optimized quantification of AQP4 using immuno-blots. Using improved methodology we find no evidence for AQP4 upregulation post-partum or in the early lung development. However, in the nasal epithelium AQP4 is upregulated as early as in the brain. Furthermore, AQP4 is strongly expressed in the glomerulus, the synaptic unit of the olfactory bulb, suggesting a role for AQP4 in olfactory function.


Schizophrenia is a complex multifactorial brain disorder with a genetic component. Convergent evidence has implicated oxidative stress and glutathione (GSH) deficits in the pathogenesis of this disease. The aim of the present study was to test whether schizophrenia is associated with a deficit of GSH synthesis. Cultured skin fibroblasts from schizophrenia patients and control subjects were challenged with oxidative stress, and parameters of the rate-limiting enzyme for the GSH synthesis, the glutamate cysteine ligase (GCL), were measured. Stressed cells of patients had a 26% (P = 0.002) decreased GCL activity as compared with controls. This reduction correlated with a 29% (P &lt; 0.001) decreased protein expression of the catalytic GCL subunit (GCLC). Genetic analysis of a trinucleotide repeat (TNR) polymorphism in the GCLC gene showed a significant association with schizophrenia in two independent case-control studies. The most common TNR genotype 7/7 was more frequent in controls [odds ratio (OR) = 0.6, P = 0.003], whereas the rarest TNR genotype 8/8 was three times more frequent in patients (OR = 3.0, P = 0.007). Moreover, subjects with disease-associated genotypes had lower GCLC protein expression (P = 0.017), GCL activity (P = 0.037), and GSH contents (P = 0.004) than subjects with genotypes that were more frequent in controls. Taken together, the study provides genetic and functional evidence that an impaired capacity to synthesize GSH under conditions of oxidative stress is a vulnerability factor for schizophrenia.
Sensory hair cell loss is a major contributor to disabling hearing and balance deficits that affect &gt;250 million people worldwide. Sound exposures, infections, drug toxicity, genetic disorders, and aging all can cause hair cell loss and lead to permanent sensory deficits. Progress toward treatments for these deficits has been limited, in part because hair cells have only been obtainable via microdissection of the anatomically complex internal ear. Attempts to produce hair cells in vitro have resulted in reports of some success but have required transplantation into embryonic ears or coculturing with other tissues. Here, we show that avian inner ear cells can be cultured and passaged for months, frozen, and expanded to large numbers without other tissues. At any point from passage 6 up to at least passage 23, these cultures can be fully dissociated and then aggregated in suspension to induce a mesenchymal-to-epithelial transition that reliably yields new polarized sensory epithelia. Those epithelia develop numerous hair cells that are crowned by hair bundles, composed of a single kinocilium and an asymmetric array of stereocilia. These hair cells exhibit rapid permeance to FM1-43, a dye that passes through open mechanotransducing channels. Because a vial of frozen cells can now provide the capacity to produce bona fide hair cells completely in vitro, these discoveries should open new avenues of research that may ultimately contribute to better treatments for hearing loss and other inner ear disorders.
The early and precise diagnosis, the prognosis, and the clinical management of multiple sclerosis, remain a considerable challenge. In recent years, the development of novel and powerful proteomic techniques prompted the use of these approaches for the search of unique biomarkers in the cerebrospinal fluid of multiple sclerosis patients. A few studies have also utilized proteomics to delineate the profile of differentially expressed proteins in animal models of the human disease in order to gain global insights into affected pathways. The identification of differentially expressed proteins may be an initial step in the discovery of novel targets and mechanisms that play critical roles in the pathology of multiple sclerosis. Based on these findings, future investigations may elucidate the events leading to demyelination, axonal damage, and neurodegeneration, providing better insights into mechanisms governing the onset and progression of the disease. Although these proteomic studies provide valuable information, they are also faced with a number of challenges. The present review discusses some of the strengths and limitations of proteomic investigations as applied to multiple sclerosis.
5-[(1R,5S)-3,6-Diazabicyclo[3.2.0]heptan-6-yl]nicotinonitrile (A-366833) is a novel nicotinic acetylcholine receptor (nAChR) ligand that binds to the agonist-binding site ([3H]-cytisine) with Ki value of 3.1 nM and exhibits agonist selectivity at alpha4beta2 nAChR relative to the alpha3beta4 nAChR subtype. The analgesic effects of A-366833 were examined across a variety of animal models including the mouse model of writhing pain (abdominal constriction), the rat models of acute thermal (hot box), persistent chemical (formalin) and neuropathic (spinal nerve ligation, SNL) pain. In the abdominal constriction model, A-366833 was effective at doses ranging from 0.062 to 0.62 micromol/kg (i.p.). In addition, A-366833 demonstrated significant effects in acute thermal pain (6.2-19.0 micromol/kg, i.p.), formalin (1.9-19 micromol/kg i.p.) and SNL (1.9-19 micromol/kg i.p.) models. The systemic effects of A-366833 were attenuated by pretreatment with mecamylamine (5 micromol/kg i.p.) in both the formalin and SNL models, suggesting that the analgesic effects of A-366833 in models of persistent nociceptive and neuropathic pain are mediated by activation of nAChRs. Pharmacokinetic investigations of A-366833 in rat revealed moderate brain:plasma distribution, half-life of 1.5h and excellent oral bioavailability of 73%. Comparison of peak plasma levels at the minimal effective doses across rat models of acute thermal pain, formalin and SNL with the maximal exposure that does not evoke emesis in ferret revealed therapeutic margins ranging from 6- to 22-fold. These studies indicate that compounds like A-366833 with improved agonist selectivity at alpha4beta2 vs. alpha3beta4 nAChR can elicit a broad spectrum of analgesic efficacy without concurrent adverse effects.
Allosteric modulation refers to the concept that proteins could exist in multiple conformational states and that binding of allosteric ligands alters the energy barriers or &quot;isomerization coefficients&quot; between various states. In the context of ligand gated ion channels such as nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (nAChRs), it implies that endogenous ligand acetylcholine binds at the orthosteric site, and that molecules that bind elsewhere on the nAChR subunit(s) acts via allosteric interactions. For example, studies with the homomeric alpha7 nAChRs indicate that such ligand interactions can be well described by an allosteric model, and that positive allosteric effectors can affect energy transitions by (i) predominantly affecting the peak current response (Type I profile) or, (ii) both peak current responses and time course of agonist-evoked response (Type II profile). The recent discovery of chemically heterogeneous group of molecules capable of differentially modifying nAChR properties without interacting at the ligand binding site illustrates the adequacy of the allosteric model to predict functional consequences. In this review, we outline general principles of the allosteric concept and summarize the profiles of novel compounds that are emerging as allosteric modulators at the alpha7 and alpha4beta2 nAChR subtypes.
A common historical strategy to the discovery of nicotinic receptor ligands has involved the use of radioligand-binding assays for ligand identification in combination with two-electrode voltage clamp in Xenopus oocytes for electrophysiological characterization. More recently, higher-throughput methodologies have replaced these approaches to accommodate screening of large compound libraries and to provide increased capacity for electrophysiological profiling in mammalian cell lines. We, and others, have implemented cell-based screening assays using the fluorometric imaging plate reader (FLIPR) for primary and lead optimization screening of nicotinic receptor agonists and positive allosteric modulators (PAMs). Using GH4C1 cells expressing the rat alpha7 nicotinic receptor, both acetylcholine and nicotine produced concentration-dependent elevations of intracellular calcium with EC(50) values of 5.5 and 1.6 microM, respectively. PAM activity was robustly detected using the FLIPR assay; for example, the known alpha7 receptor PAM 5-hydroxyindole failed to directly activate the receptor but produced a leftward shift of the nicotine concentration-response curve in combination with a potentiation of the maximum evoked response to nicotine. Electrophysiological confirmation of agonist activity was achieved using the Dynaflow rapid perfusion system and patch clamp in the same GH4C1 cell expression system. Estimated EC(50) values for acetylcholine-evoked currents in GH4C1/alpha7 cells were 55 and 576 microM for area-under-the-curve (AUC) and maximum peak height calculations, respectively. Similarly, PAM activity was confirmed using electrophysiological recordings while also allowing for the mechanistic discrimination of compounds, not possible using the FLIPR assay. Specifically, PAMs capable of slowing the rapid desensitization of alpha7 receptors to different extents were discernable in these studies. Further improvements in the capacity to screen compounds using electrophysiology has been achieved by implementation of high-throughput gigaohm quality recording systems such as the QPatch and PatchXpress where agonist EC(50) values are highly comparable to those obtained using conventional manual patch clamp.
Nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (nAChRs) are widely expressed throughout the central nervous system and participate in a variety of physiological functions. Recent advances have revealed roles of nAChRs in the regulation of synaptic transmission and synaptic plasticity, particularly in the hippocampus and midbrain dopamine centers. In general, activation of nAChRs causes membrane depolarization and directly and indirectly increases the intracellular calcium concentration. Thus, when nAChRs are expressed on presynaptic membranes their activation generally increases the probability of neurotransmitter release. When expressed on postsynaptic membranes, nAChR-initiated calcium signals and depolarization activate intracellular signaling mechanisms and gene transcription. Together, the presynaptic and postsynaptic effects of nAChRs generate and facilitate the induction of long-term changes in synaptic transmission. The direction of hippocampal nAChR-mediated synaptic plasticity - either potentiation or depression - depends on the timing of nAChR activation relative to coincident presynaptic and postsynaptic electrical activity, and also depends on the location of cholinergic stimulation within the local network. Therapeutic activation of nAChRs may prove efficacious in the treatment of neuropathologies where synaptic transmission is compromised, as in Alzheimer's or Parkinson's disease.
Neuronal cholinergic nicotinic receptors (nAChRs) are a heterogeneous class of cationic channels that are widely distributed in the nervous system that have specific functional and pharmacological properties. They consist of homologous subunits encoded by a large multigene family, and their opening is physiologically controlled by the acetylcholine neurotransmitter or exogenous ligands such as nicotine. Their biophysical and pharmacological properties depend on their subunit composition, which is therefore central to understanding receptor function in the nervous system and discovering new subtype-selective drugs. We will review rodent brain subtypes by discussing their subunit composition, pharmacology and localisation and, when possible, comparing them with the same subtypes present in the brain of other mammalian species or chick. In particular, we will focus on the nAChRs present in the visual pathway (retina, superior colliculus and nucleus geniculatus lateralis), in which neurons express most, if not all, nAChR subunits. In addition to the major alpha4beta2 and alpha7 nAChR subtypes, the visual pathway selectively expresses subtypes with a complex subunit composition. By means of ligand binding and immunoprecipitation and immunopurification experiments on tissues obtained from control and lesioned rats, and wild-type and nAChR subunit knockout mice, we have qualitatively and quantitatively identified, and pharmacologically characterised, the multiple complex native subtypes containing up to four different subunits.


Furan-containing congeners of the histamine H(2) receptor antagonist ranitidine were synthesized and tested for improgan-like antinociceptive activity. The most potent ligand of the series, VUF5498, is the most potent improgan-like agent described to date (ED(50)=25 nmol, icv). This compound is approximately equal in potency with morphine. These non-imidazole, improgan-like pain relievers further define the structural requirements for analgesics of this class and are important tools for ongoing mechanism-based studies.
Gene therapy, to delivery of genetic material to a patient for therapeutic benefit, has significant promise for translating basic knowledge of disease mechanism into biomedical treatments. The clinical development of the field has been slowed, however, by the need for improvements in the properties and capabilities of gene delivery vehicles. Vehicles based on viruses offer the potential for efficient gene delivery, but because viruses did not evolve to serve human therapeutic needs, many of their properties require significant improvement, including their safety, efficiency, and capacity for targeted gene delivery. Since viruses are highly complex biological entities, engineering such properties at the molecular level can be challenging. However, there has been significant progress in developing approaches that mimic the mechanisms by which viruses arose in the first place. In particular, library-based selection, the generation of one diverse genetic library and selection for new properties, and directed evolution, based on the multiple rounds of library generation and selection for iterative improvement of function, have strong potential in engineering novel properties into these complex biomolecular assemblies. This review will discuss progress in the application of peptide display, library selection, and directed evolution technologies toward engineering vectors based on retrovirus, adeno-associated virus, and adenovirus that are capable of targeted delivery to specific cell types. In addition to creating biomedically useful products, these approaches have future potential to yield novel insights into viral structure-function relationships.

A significant concept in neuroscience is that sensory areas of the neocortex have evolved the remarkable ability to represent a number of stimulus features within the confines of a global map of the sensory periphery. Modularity, the term often used to describe the inhomogeneous nature of the neocortex, is without a doubt an important organizational principle of early sensory areas, such as the primary visual cortex (V1). Ocular dominance columns, one type of module in V1, are found in many primate species as well as in carnivores. Yet, their variable presence in some New World monkey species and complete absence in other species has been enigmatic. Here, we demonstrate that optical imaging reveals the presence of ocular dominance columns in the superficial layers of V1 of owl monkeys (Aotus trivirgatus), even though the geniculate inputs related to each eye are highly overlapping in layer 4. The ocular dominance columns in owl monkeys revealed by optical imaging are circular in appearance. The distance between left eye centers and right eye centers is approximately 650 mum. We find no relationship between ocular dominance centers and other modular organizational features such as orientation pinwheels or the centers of the cytochrome oxidase blobs. These results are significant because they suggest that functional columns may exist in the absence of obvious differences in the distributions of activating inputs and ocular dominance columns may be more widely distributed across mammalian taxa than commonly suggested.
Parkinson's disease (PD) is a chronic progressive neurodegenerative movement disorder characterized by a profound and selective loss of nigrostriatal dopaminergic neurons. Clinical manifestations of this complex disease include motor impairments involving resting tremor, bradykinesia, postural instability, gait difficulty and rigidity. Current medications only provide symptomatic relief and fail to halt the death of dopaminergic neurons. A major hurdle in development of neuroprotective therapies are due to limited understanding of disease processes leading to death of dopaminergic neurons. While the etiology of dopaminergic neuronal demise is elusive, a combination of genetic susceptibilities and environmental factors seems to play a critical role. The majority of PD cases are sporadic however, the discovery of genes linked to rare familial forms of disease (encoding alpha-synuclein, parkin, DJ-1, PINK-1 and LRRK2) and studies from experimental animal models has provided crucial insights into molecular mechanisms in disease pathogenesis and identified probable targets for therapeutic intervention. Recent findings implicate mitochondrial dysfunction, oxidative damage, abnormal protein accumulation and protein phosphorylation as key molecular mechanisms compromising dopamine neuronal function and survival as the underlying cause of pathogenesis in both sporadic and familial PD. In this review we provide an overview of the most relevant findings made by the PD research community in the last year and discuss how these significant findings improved our understanding of events leading to nigrostriatal dopaminergic degeneration, and identification of potential cell survival pathways that could serve as targets for neuroprotective therapies in preventing this disabling neurological illness.
We ascertained three different families affected with oto-dental syndrome, a rare but severe autosomal-dominant craniofacial anomaly. All affected patients had the unique phenotype of grossly enlarged molar teeth (globodontia) segregating with a high-frequency sensorineural hearing loss. In addition, ocular coloboma segregated with disease in one family (oculo-oto-dental syndrome). A genome-wide scan was performed using the Affymetrix GeneChip10K 2.0 Array. Parametric linkage analysis gave a single LOD score peak of 3.9 identifying linkage to chromosome 11q13. Haplotype analysis revealed three obligatory recombination events defining a 4.8 Mb linked interval between D11S1889 and SNP rs2077955. Higher resolution mapping and Southern blot analysis in each family identified overlapping hemizygous microdeletions. SNP expression analysis and real-time quantitative RT-PCR in patient lymphoblast cell lines excluded a positional effect on the flanking genes ORAOV1, PPFIA1 and CTTN. The smallest 43 kb deletion resulted in the loss of only one gene, FGF3, which was also deleted in all other otodental families. These data suggest that FGF3 haploinsufficiency is likely to be the cause of otodental syndrome. In addition, the Fas-associated death domain (FADD) gene was also deleted in the one family segregating ocular coloboma. Spatiotemporal in situ hybridization in zebrafish embryos established for the first time that fadd is expressed during eye development. We therefore propose that FADD haploinsufficiency is likely to be responsible for ocular coloboma in this family. This study therefore implicates FGF3 and FADD in human craniofacial disease.
In 2000, the Joint Commission on Accreditation of Healthcare Organizations (JCAHO) introduced the mandate for the implementation of standards for both pain assessment and need for therapy in hospitalized patients. The need for the appropriate titration of sedation and analgesia is particularly poignant in an intensive care unit (ICU) setting where iatrogenic discomfort often complicates patient management. Neurologically ill patients in ICUs present particularly complex sedation issues, owing to the need to monitor these patients with serial neurological exams. Hence, maximal comfort without diminishing neurological responsiveness is desirable. Here, we review the frequently applied methods of evaluating levels of pain and agitation in critically ill patients as well as discuss the appropriate classes of pharmaceutical agents common to this population, with particular emphasis on the potential neurophysiological impact of such therapy.
This article highlights the experimental and clinical data, controversies and postulated mechanisms surrounding osmotherapy with hypertonic saline (HS) solutions in the neurocritical care arena and builds on previous reviews on the subject. Special attention is focused on HS therapy on commonly encountered clinical paradigms of acute brain injury including traumatic brain injury (TBI), post-operative &quot;retraction edema&quot;, intracranial hemorrhage (ICH), tumor-associated cerebral edema, and ischemia associated with ischemic stroke.
In order to meet the needs of the high acuity population in today's critical care environment, the role of the Acute Care Nurse practitioner (ACNP) has been adopted by many intensive care units (ICU's) across the country, including specialized neurocritical care units. In this chapter we will provide a brief historical review of the ACNP as well as their function in various ICU settings. Lastly, we will describe the current role of the ACNP in the Neurosciences Critical Care Unit at the Johns Hopkins Hospital as well as future plans and challenges of the role.
Based on the assumption that brain ischemia and hypoxia are central causes of brain damage, the maintenance of an adequate tissue oxygenation is a primary objective in the field of neurocritical care. Thus, monitoring brain tissue oxymetry, allowing the possibility to discriminate between normal and critically impaired tissue oxygenation, is recognized as an essential part of the management of the neurological critically ill patient. The clinical usefulness of this neuromonitoring tool in the area of neurosciences (traumatic brain injury, aneurysm surgery, arteriovenous malformation resection, brain tumors) is discussed. Monitoring brain tissue oxymetry not only allows the detection of impending cerebral ischemia, thus providing the clinician with essential information for the management and correction of harmful intracerebral events, but it also helps in understanding the pathophysiology of neuro-injury. It can also be used as a &quot;surrogate end point&quot; to evaluate putative therapies, targeting therapy towards improved cerebral oxygenation. As brain tissue oxygenation correlates closely with outcome, several outcome categories have been differentiated, aiding in predicting prognosis after injury. The rationale for monitoring brain tissue oxygenation is to provide essential information about oxygen supply and utilization in this specific tissue bed, thus reducing secondary brain damage and improving neurological outcome.
Intracerebral hemorrhage (ICH) is associated with the highest mortality among all forms of stroke. Evolution in the medical management of ICH has not improved patient outcomes while the results of conventional surgery have generally been disappointing. Minimally invasive surgery (MIS) using stereotactic clot aspiration followed by clot lysis is gaining credibility as an alternative management strategy. We review the published data on this methodology in the treatment of ICH.
The novel object recognition task is gaining popularity for its ability to test a complex behavior which relies on the integrity of memory and attention systems without placing undue stress upon the animal. While the task places few requirements upon the animal, it traditionally requires the experimenter to observe the test phase directly and record behavior. This approach can severely limit the number of subjects which can be tested in a reasonable period of time, as training and testing occur on the same day and span several hours. The current study was designed to test the feasibility of automation of this task for adolescent rats using standard activity chambers, with the goals of increased objectivity, flexibility, and throughput of subjects.
N-methyl-d-aspartate receptor (NMDAR) activation can trigger both long- and short-term plasticity, promote cell survival, and initiate cell death. A number of studies suggest that the consequences of NMDAR activation can vary widely depending on whether synaptic or extrasynaptic receptors are activated. Here we have examined the spatial distribution of NMDARs of CA1 pyramidal neurons in acutely dissected hippocampal slices. Using a physiological definition of extrasynaptic receptors as those not accessible to single release events, we find that extrasynaptic NMDARs comprise a substantial proportion of the dendritic NMDAR pool (36%). This pool of extrasynaptic NMDARs is stable and does not shuttle into the synaptic receptor pool, as we observe no recovery of synaptic current after MK-801 synaptic blockade and washout. The subunit composition of synaptic and extrasynaptic NMDA receptor pools is similar at 3 weeks of age, with NR2B subunits present in both compartments. NR2B receptors are not enriched in the extrasynaptic compartment. Our data suggest that any role played by extrasynaptic NMDARs in synaptic transmission is dictated by their subcellular location rather than their subunit composition or mobility.
Hearing relies on fast and sustained neurotransmitter release from inner hair cells (IHCs) onto the afferent auditory nerve fibres. The temperature dependence of Ca(2+) current and transmitter release at the IHCs ribbon synapse has not been investigated thus far. To assess the influence of temperature on calcium-triggered exocytosis, patch-clamp recordings of voltage-gated L-type Ca(2+) influx and exocytic membrane capacitance changes were performed at room (25 degrees C) and physiological (35-37 degrees C) temperatures. An increase in temperature within this range increased the L-type Ca(2+) current amplitude of IHCs (Q(10) = 1.3) and accelerates the activation kinetics. Fast exocytosis, probed by 20 ms depolarization, was enhanced at physiological temperature with a Q(10) of 2.1. The amplitude of fast release was elevated disproportionately to the increase in Ca(2+) influx. In contrast, the rate of sustained exocytosis (exocytic rate between 20 and 100 ms of depolarization) did not show a significant increase at physiological temperature. Altogether, these data indicate that the efficiency of fast exocytosis is higher at physiological temperature than at room temperature and suggest that the number of readily releasable vesicles available at the active zone is higher at physiological temperature.
Stimulation of alpha(2)-noradrenergic (NA) receptors within the PFC improves working memory performance. This improvement is accompanied by a selective increase in the activity of PFC neurons during delay periods, although the cellular mechanisms responsible for this enhanced response are largely unknown. Here we used current and voltage clamp recordings to characterize the response of layer V-VI PFC pyramidal neurons to alpha(2)-NA receptor stimulation. alpha(2)-NA receptor activation produced a small hyperpolarization of the resting membrane potential, which was accompanied by an increase in input resistance and evoked firing. Voltage clamp analysis demonstrated that alpha(2)-NA receptor stimulation inhibited a caesium and ZD7288-sensitive hyperpolarization-activated (HCN) inward current. Suppression of HCN current by alpha(2)-NA stimulation was not dependent on adenylate cyclase but instead required activation of a PLC-PKC linked signalling pathway. Similar to direct blockade of HCN channels, alpha(2)-NA receptor stimulation produced a significant enhancement in temporal summation during trains of distally evoked EPSPs. These dual effects of alpha(2)-NA receptor stimulation - membrane hyperpolarization and enhanced temporal integration - together produce an increase in the overall gain of the response of PFC pyramidal neurons to excitatory synaptic input. The net effect is the suppression of isolated excitatory inputs while enhancing the response to a coherent burst of synaptic activity.
The ability of Ca(2+) influx through the N-methyl d-aspartate subclass of glutamate receptor (NMDA receptor) to both kill neurons and to promote survival under different circumstances is well established. Here we discuss the signal pathways that mediate this dichotomous signalling, and the factors that influence whether an NMDA receptor-dependent Ca(2+) signal results in a net pro-survival or pro-death effect. The magnitude of NMDA receptor activation, be it intensity or duration, is of course very important in determining the nature of the response to an episode of NMDA receptor activity, with excitotoxic death pathways requiring higher levels than survival pathways. However, the NMDA receptor is not merely a conduit for Ca(2+) influx: the consequences of NMDA receptor activity can be influenced by signalling molecules that physically associate with the NMDA receptor or indeed the location (synaptic versus extrasynaptic) of the receptor. Furthermore, we discuss the possibility that the Ca(2+) effectors of survival and death are in different subcellular locations, and thus depend on the spatial characteristics of the Ca(2+) transient. A greater understanding of these issues may point to ways of selectively blocking pro-death signalling in neurological disorders such as stroke, where global NMDA receptor antagonists have proved ineffective.
Endocannabinoids are released from postsynaptic neurons, activate presynaptic cannabinoid receptors and cause various forms of short-term and long-term synaptic plasticity throughout the brain. Using hippocampal and cerebellar neurons, we have revealed that endocannabinoid release can be induced through two different pathways. One is independent of phospholipase Cbeta (PLCbeta) and driven by Ca(2+) elevation alone (Ca(2+)-driven endocannabinoid release, CaER), and the other is PLCbeta-dependent and driven by activation of G(q/11)-coupled receptors (receptor-driven endocannabinoid release, RER). CaER is induced by activation of either voltage-gated Ca(2+) channels or NMDA receptors. RER is functional even at resting Ca(2+) levels (basal RER), but markedly enhanced by a small Ca(2+) elevation (Ca(2+)-assisted RER). In Ca(2+)-assisted RER, PLCbeta serves as a coincidence detector of receptor activation and Ca(2+) elevation. We have also demonstrated that Ca(2+)-assisted RER is essential for the endocannabinoid release triggered by synaptic activity. Our anatomical data show that a set of receptors and enzymes required for RER are well organized so that the excitatory input can trigger RER effectively. Certain forms of spike-timing-dependent plasticity (STDP) are reported to depend on endocannabinoid signalling. The NMDA receptor and PLCbeta might play key roles in the endocannabinoid-dependent forms of STDP as coincidence detectors with different timing dependences.
Endocannabinoids are released from neurons in activity-dependent manners, act retrogradely on presynaptic CB(1) cannabinoid receptors, and induce short-term or long-term suppression of transmitter release. The endocannabinoid release is triggered by postsynaptic activation of voltage-gated Ca(2+) channels and/or G(q)-coupled receptors such as group I metabotropic glutamate receptors (I-mGluRs) and M(1)/M(3) muscarinic receptors. However, the roles of NMDA receptors, which provide another pathway for Ca(2+) entry into neurons, in endocannabinoid signalling have been poorly understood. In the present study, we investigated the possible contribution of NMDA receptors in endocannabinoid production by recording IPSCs in cultured hippocampal neurons. Under the conditions minimizing the activation of voltage-gated Ca(2+) channels, local application of NMDA (200 microm) transiently suppressed cannabinoid-sensitive IPSCs, but not cannabinoid-insensitive IPSCs. This NMDA-induced suppression was abolished by blocking NMDA receptors, CB(1) receptors and diacylglycerol lipase, but not by inhibiting voltage-gated Ca(2+) channels. When the postsynaptic neuron was dialysed with 30 mm BAPTA, the NMDA-induced suppression was reduced significantly. A lower dose of NMDA (20 microm) exerted little effect when applied alone, but markedly enhanced the cannabinoid-dependent suppression driven by muscarinic receptors or I-mGluRs. These data clearly indicate that the activation of NMDA receptors facilitates the endocannabinoid release either alone or in concert with the G(q)-coupled receptors.
Weight loss and anxiety frequently occur in individuals with Huntington's disease (HD) but the underlying mechanisms are not well-understood. Peptides produced in the hypothalamus are involved in regulating energy homeostasis and emotion. Recent data suggest that changes in neuropeptide levels may be reflected in the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF), and could therefore serve as biomarkers for HD. Cocaine- and amphetamine-regulated transcript (CART) is a neuropetide expressed in several brain regions such as the hypothalamus, amygdala, and hippocampus. CART has been shown to increase anxiety and reduce food intake in rodents by as yet unknown mechanisms. Individuals with a CART mutation exhibit increased anxiety. In cross-sectional CSF samples from HD patients (n = 39), we found that levels of CART peptide were significantly increased by 23% compared to control subjects (n = 28). Increased CART levels in HD therefore hold promise as a biomarker as well as a potential pathogenic mediator of symptoms.
Stiff person syndrome (SPS) has been associated with autoimmune diseases, such as Type 1 diabetes mellitus and autoimmune thyroid disease (Hashimoto's thyroiditis), among others. The association of SPS with hyperthyroidism is extremely rare. We describe a patient with uncontrolled Graves' disease and undiagnosed SPS, who presented initially with acute ataxia simulating a cerebrovascular accident. Initiation of immunosuppressive therapy dramatically improved the patient's Graves' disease within 2 weeks but the neurological symptoms were not alleviated after a follow-up period of 3 years.
Mercury toxicity causes postural tremors, commonly referred to as &quot;mercurial tremors,&quot; and cerebellar dysfunction. A 23-year woman, 2 years after injecting herself with elemental mercury developed disabling generalized myoclonus and ataxia. Electrophysiological studies confirmed the myoclonus was probably of cortical origin. Her deficits progressed over 2 years and improved after subcutaneous mercury deposits at the injection site were surgically cleared. Myoclonus of cortical origin has never been described in mercury poisoning. It is important to ask patients presenting with jerks about exposure to elemental mercury even if they have a progressive illness, as it is a potentially reversible condition as in our patient.
Mesial temporal lobe epilepsy is associated with structural and functional abnormalities, such as hippocampal sclerosis and axonal reorganization. The temporal evolution of these changes remains to be determined, and there is a need for in vivo imaging techniques that can uncover the epileptogenic processes at an early stage. Manganese-enhanced magnetic resonance imaging may be useful in this regard. The aim of this study was to analyze the temporospatial changes in manganese enhancement in rat brain during the development of epilepsy subsequent to systemic kainate application (10 mg/kg i.p.). MnCl(2) was given systemically on day 2 (early), day 15 (latent), and 11 weeks (chronic phase) after the initial status epilepticus. Twenty-four hours after MnCl(2) injection T1-weighted 3D MRI was performed followed by analysis of manganese enhancement. In the medial temporal lobes, there was a pronounced decrease in manganese enhancement in CA1, CA3, dentate gyrus, entorhinal cortex and lateral amygdala in the early phase. In the latent and chronic phases, recovery of the manganese enhancement was observed in all these structures except CA1. A significant increase in manganese enhancement was detected in the entorhinal cortex and the amygdala in the chronic phase. In the latter phase, the structurally intact cerebellum showed significantly decreased manganese enhancement. The highly differentiated changes in manganese enhancement are likely to represent the net outcome of a number of pathological and pathophysiological events, including cell loss and changes in neuronal activity. Our findings are not consistent with the idea that manganese enhancement primarily reflects changes in glial cells.
In electroencephalographic (EEG) measurements performed during functional Magnetic Resonance Imaging (fMRI), imaging and cardiac artefacts strongly contaminate the EEG signal. Several algorithms have been proposed to suppress these artefacts and most of them have shown important improvements with respect to uncorrected signals. However, the relative performances of these algorithms have not been properly assessed. In particular, it is not known to what extent such algorithms deteriorate the EEG signal of interest. In this study, we propose to cross-validate different methods proposed for artefact correction, using a forward model to generate EEG and MR-related artefacts. The methods are assessed under various experimental conditions (described in terms of EEG sampling rate, artefacts amplitude, frequency band of interest, etc.). Using experimental data, we also tested the performance of the correction methods for alpha rhythm imaging and for epileptic spike reconstruction. Results show that most of the methods allow the observation of the modulation of alpha rhythms and the identification of spikes, despite subtle differences between algorithms. They also show that over-filtering the data may degrade the EEG. Our results indicate that the optimal artefact removal technique should be chosen according to whether one is interested in fast (&gt;10 Hz) vs. slow (&lt;10 Hz) oscillations or in evoked vs. ongoing activity.
[(11)C]diprenorphine (DPN) is a non-subtype selective opioid receptor PET ligand with slow kinetics and no region devoid of specific binding. Parametric maps are desirable but have to overcome high noise at the voxel level. We obtained parameter values, parametric map image quality, test-retest reproducibility and reliability (using intraclass correlation coefficients (ICCs)) for conventional spectral analysis and a derived method (rank shaping), compared them with values obtained through sampling of volumes of interest (VOIs) on the dynamic data sets and tested whether smaller amounts of radioactivity injected maintained reliability. Ten subjects were injected twice with either approximately 185 MBq or approximately 135 MBq of [(11)C]DPN, followed by dynamic PET for 90 min. Data were movement corrected with a frame-to-frame co-registration method. Arterial plasma input functions corrected for radiolabelled metabolites were created. There was no overall effect of movement correction except for one subject with substantial movement whose test-retest differences decreased by approximately 50%. Actual parametric values depended heavily on the cutoff for slow frequencies (between 0.0008 s(-1) and 0.00063 s(-1)). Image quality was satisfactory for restricted base ranges when using conventional spectral analysis. The rank shaping method allowed maximising of this range but had similar bias. VOI-based methods had the widest dynamic range between regions. Average percentage test-retest differences were smallest for the parametric maps with restricted base ranges; similarly ICCs were highest for these (up to 0.86) but unacceptably low for VOI-derived VD estimates at the low doses of injected radioactivity (0.24/0.04). Our data can inform the choice of methodology for a given biological problem.
The mesial temporal lobe epilepsy syndrome (MTLE) is the most common form of focal epilepsies. MTLE patients usually respond very little to pharmacological therapy and surgical resection of temporal brain areas is mandatory. Finding less invasive therapies than resection of the sclerotic hippocampus requires knowledge of the network structures and dynamics involved in seizure generation. Investigation of the time interval immediately preceding seizure onset would help in understanding the initiation mechanisms of the seizure proper and, thereby, possibly improve therapeutical options. Here, we employed the in vivo intrahippocampal kainate model in mice, which is characterized by unilateral histological changes, resembling hippocampal sclerosis observed in human MTLE, and recurrent focal seizures. In these epileptic mice, population spikes occurred during epileptiform events (EEs) in the ipsilateral, histologically changed hippocampus, but also concomitantly in the contralateral, intact hippocampus. We studied synchronization processes between the ipsilateral, sclerotic hippocampus and the contralateral hippocampus immediately preceding the onset of EEs. We show that coherence between the two hippocampi decreased consistently and reliably for all EEs at 8 to 12 s before their onset at high frequencies (&gt;100 Hz), without changes in power in these bands. This early decoupling of the two hippocampi indicates the time range for cellular and network mechanisms leading to increased excitability and/or synchronicity in the tissue and thus ultimately to epileptic seizures.
We present a multi-scale generative model for EEG, that entails a minimum number of assumptions about evoked brain responses, namely: (1) bioelectric activity is generated by a set of distributed sources, (2) the dynamics of these sources can be modelled as random fluctuations about a small number of mesostates, (3) mesostates evolve in a temporal structured way and are functionally connected (i.e. influence each other), and (4) the number of mesostates engaged by a cognitive task is small (e.g. between one and a few). A Variational Bayesian learning scheme is described that furnishes the posterior density on the models parameters and its evidence. Since the number of meso-sources specifies the model, the model evidence can be used to compare models and find the optimum number of meso-sources. In addition to estimating the dynamics at each cortical dipole, the mesostate-space model and its inversion provide a description of brain activity at the level of the mesostates (i.e. in terms of the dynamics of meso-sources that are distributed over dipoles). The inclusion of a mesostate level allows one to compute posterior probability maps of each dipole being active (i.e. belonging to an active mesostate). Critically, this model accommodates constraints on the number of meso-sources, while retaining the flexibility of distributed source models in explaining data. In short, it bridges the gap between standard distributed and equivalent current dipole models. Furthermore, because it is explicitly spatiotemporal, the model can embed any stochastic dynamical causal model (e.g. a neural mass model) as a Markov process prior on the mesostate dynamics. The approach is evaluated and compared to standard inverse EEG techniques, using synthetic data and real data. The results demonstrate the added-value of the mesostate-space model and its variational inversion.
The present study reports the first comprehensive map of brain networks underlying latent inhibition learning and the first application of structural equation modeling to cytochrome oxidase data. In latent inhibition, repeated exposure to a stimulus results in a latent form of learning that inhibits subsequent associations with that stimulus. As neuronal energy demands to form learned associations changes, so does the induction of the respiratory enzyme cytochrome oxidase. Therefore, cytochrome oxidase can be used as an endpoint metabolic marker of the effects of experience on regional brain metabolic capacity. Quantitative cytochrome oxidase histochemistry was used to map brain regions in mice trained on a tone-footshock fear conditioning paradigm with either tone preexposure (latent inhibition), conditioning only (acquisition), conditioning followed by tone alone (extinction), or no handling or conditioning (naive). The ventral cochlear nucleus, medial geniculate, CA1 hippocampus, and perirhinal cortex showed modified metabolic capacity due to latent inhibition. Structural equation modeling was used to determine the causal influences in an anatomical network of these regions and others thought to mediate latent inhibition, including the accumbens and entorhinal cortex. An uncoupling of ascending influences between auditory regions was observed in latent inhibition. There was also a reduced influence on the accumbens from the perirhinal cortex in both latent inhibition and extinction. The results suggest a specific network with a neural mechanism of latent inhibition that appears to involve sensory gating, as evidenced by modifications in metabolic capacity and effective connectivity between auditory regions and reduced perirhinal cortex influence on the accumbens.
Serotonin (5HT) is a powerful modulator of respiratory circuitry in vitro but its role in the development of breathing behavior in vivo is poorly understood. Here we show, using 5HT neuron-deficient Pet-1 (Pet-1(-/-)) neonates, that serotonergic function is required for the normal timing of postnatal respiratory maturation. Plethysmographic recordings reveal that Pet-1(-/-) mice are born with a depressed breathing frequency and a higher incidence of spontaneous and prolonged respiratory pauses relative to wild type littermates. The wild type breathing pattern stabilizes by postnatal day 4.5, while breathing remains depressed, highly irregular and interrupted more frequently by respiratory pauses in Pet-1(-/-) mice. Analysis of in vitro hypoglossal nerve discharge indicates that instabilities in the central respiratory rhythm generator contribute to the abnormal Pet-1(-/-) breathing behavior. In addition, the breathing pattern in Pet-1(-/-) neonates is susceptible to environmental conditions, and can be further destabilized by brief exposure to hypoxia. By postnatal day 9.5, however, breathing frequency in Pet-1(-/-) animals is only slightly depressed compared to wild type, and prolonged respiratory pauses are rare, indicating that the abnormalities seen earlier in the Pet-1(-/-) mice are transient. Our findings provide unexpected insight into the development of breathing behavior by demonstrating that defects in 5HT neuron development can extend and exacerbate the period of breathing instability that occurs immediately after birth during which respiratory homeostasis is vulnerable to environmental challenges.


Our previous studies demonstrated that only a few days of housing in an enriched environment increases response strength and paired-pulse depression in the auditory cortex of awake and anesthetized rats [Engineer, N.D., Percaccio, C.R., Pandya, P.K., Moucha, R., Rathbun, D.L., Kilgard, M.P., 2004. Environmental enrichment improves response strength, threshold, selectivity, and latency of auditory cortex neurons. J Neurophysiol. 92, 73-82 and Percaccio, C.R., Engineer, N.D., Pruette, A.L., Pandya, P.K., Moucha, R., Rathbun, D.L., Kilgard, M.P., 2005. Environmental enrichment increases paired-pulse depression in rat auditory cortex. J Neurophysiol. 94, 3590-3600]. Multiple environmental and neurochemical factors likely contribute to the expression of this plasticity. In the current study, we examined the contribution of social stimulation, exercise, auditory exposure, and cholinergic modulation to enrichment-induced plasticity. We recorded epidural evoked potentials from awake rats in response to tone pairs and noise bursts. Auditory evoked responses were not altered by social stimulation or exercise. Rats that could hear the enriched environment, but not interact with it, exhibited enhanced responses to tones and increased paired-pulse depression. The degree to which enrichment increased response strength and forward masking was not reduced after a ventricular injection of 192 IgG-saporin. These results indicate that rich auditory experience stimulates physiological plasticity in the auditory cortex, despite persistent deficits in cholinergic activity. This conclusion may be beneficial to clinical populations with sensory gating and cholinergic abnormalities, including individuals with autism, schizophrenia, and Alzheimer's disease.
Interaction with the environment has a key role in refining the neuronal circuitry required for normal brain function throughout life. Profound effects of enriched environment have been shown on neuronal structure and chemistry in experimental animals. Epidemiological studies imply that this is true also in man, thus cognitive stimulation has a protective effect on neurodegeneration, e.g., in Alzheimer's disease. Glutamatergic pathways are imperative for cognitive functions, such as memory, learning and long-term potentiation, and relies on the AMPA and NMDA glutamate receptors and the hippocampus, with its specific subregions, is an important anatomical substrate in this. The glutamate signalling is also dependent on a fine-tuned transport system, in the hippocampus primarily achieved by the glutamate transporter EAAC1. In this study we show how environmental enrichment modulates these parts of the glutamatergic system using quantitative in situ hybridisation. This work demonstrates for the first time that environmental enrichment modulates the mRNA expression of EAAC1 which is significantly and region specifically decreased in the hippocampus. We also provide evidence for regional and hemisphere-specific upregulation of NMDA mRNA in the hippocampus after environmental enrichment. The current work also shows that AMPA mRNA of the hippocampus is not per se changed by environmental enrichment in adult animals. Taken together, our results extend the knowledge of the glutamatergic system of specific regions of the hippocampus and its modulation by environmental enrichment and could contribute to the development of strategies aimed at limiting pathological changes associated with glutamatergic dysfunctions.
Electrophysiological, microdialysis and behavioral studies support a modulatory role for corticotropin-releasing factor (CRF) in regulating the dorsal raphe nucleus (DRN)-serotonin (5-HT) system. CRF and 5-HT are implicated in the pathophysiology of depression, thus neuroanatomical substrates of CRF-DRN-5-HT interactions are of interest. Identification of co-transmitters within DRN CRF axon terminals is important for elucidating the complex effects underlying CRF afferent regulation of DRN neurons. This study investigated whether CRF-labeled axon terminals within the DRN contain immunoreactivity for vesicular glutamate transporters (isoforms vGlut1 and vGlut2) indicative of the excitatory neurotransmitter glutamate. Dual immunohistochemistry for CRF and either vGlut1 or vGlut2 was conducted within the same tissue section and immunofluorescence results indicated patterns of immunoreactivity consistent with previous reports. Abundant vGlut1- and vGlut2-immunoreactivity was found in puncta exhibiting a largely uniform distribution, whereas CRF-immunoreactivity was localized to topographically distributed varicose processes within the DRN. Profiles containing both CRF- and either vGlut1- or vGlut2-immunoreactivity were apparent in the DRN. Electron microscopy confirmed that immunoreactivity for CRF and vGlut1 was localized primarily to separate axon terminals in the DRN, with a subset co-localizing CRF and vGlut1. Examination of CRF and vGlut2 immunoreactivities in the DRN indicated that CRF and vGlut2 were found within the same axon terminal more frequently than CRF and vGlut1. Overall, these anatomical findings suggest that CRF may function, in part, with the excitatory neurotransmitter glutamate in the modulation of neuronal activity in the DRN.
Selective attention enables us to respond to objects and events that are relevant to our goals for adaptive interactions with the environment. Despite evidence from research addressing the selection of a target location, little is known about the neural mechanisms of attentional selection in situations in which the selection is biased in favor of the information in the irrelevant location. In this study, we combined event-related fMRI and a location-based negative priming paradigm with a prime-probe-trial design to investigate the neural mechanisms of spatial attentional selection. Participants were instructed to respond to the location of a pre-specified target while ignoring a distractor at an irrelevant location. The goal of this study was twofold. First, we identified brain regions that are linked to conflict resolution situations, in which the selection bias puts the irrelevant information in the probe trial on a selection advantage over the target. Second, we determined the mechanism of conflict resolution when the encoding conditions of stimuli are manipulated by presenting stimuli either abruptly (onset) or masked (no-onset). The results showed that the bottom-up-induced competition among stimuli in the target selection is stronger for onset than no-onset stimuli. The superior parietal lobule was sensitive to those changes in bottom-up-induced competition. Furthermore, the dorsolateral prefrontal cortex and inferior parietal lobe were activated to resolve the additional processing effort necessary to select the negatively biased target. In conclusion, the present study identified dissociable neural components needed to resolve the negative selection bias, which attentional modulation can be addressed in future studies by examining changes in the functional connectivity.
The potassium chloride cotransporter KCC2 plays a major role in the maintenance of transmembrane chloride potential in mature neurons; thus KCC2 activity is critical for hyperpolarizing membrane currents generated upon the activation of gamma-aminobutyric acid type A and glycine (Gly) receptors that underlie fast synaptic inhibition in the adult central nervous system. However, to date an understanding of the cellular mechanism that neurons use to modulate the functional expression of KCC2 remains rudimentary. Using Escherichia coli expression coupled with in vitro kinase assays, we first established that protein kinase C (PKC) can directly phosphorylate serine 940 (Ser(940)) within the C-terminal cytoplasmic domain of KCC2. We further demonstrated that Ser(940) is the major site for PKC-dependent phosphorylation for full-length KCC2 molecules when expressed in HEK-293 cells. Phosphorylation of Ser(940) increased the cell surface stability of KCC2 in this system by decreasing its rate of internalization from the plasma membrane. Coincident phosphorylation of Ser(940) increased the rate of ion transport by KCC2. It was further evident that phosphorylation of endogenous KCC2 in cultured hippocampal neurons is regulated by PKC-dependent activity. Moreover, in keeping with our recombinant studies, enhancing PKC-dependent phosphorylation increased the targeting of KCC2 to the neuronal cell surface. Our studies thus suggest that PKC-dependent phosphorylation of KCC2 may play a central role in modulating both the functional expression of this critical transporter in the brain and the strength of synaptic inhibition.
Androgens have been shown to have a number of effects on hippocampal function. Although androgen receptors (AR) are found at high levels in hippocampal neurons, the intracellular mechanisms responsible for androgen's actions are unknown. If androgens were capable of altering internal calcium concentration ([Ca(2+)](i)), they could influence a variety of intracellular signaling pathways, maintain neuronal homeostasis and Ca(2+) induced excitotoxicity. In the present study, calcium imaging was used to measure the [Ca(2+)](i) in rat primary hippocampal neurons treated with either the AR agonist dihydrotestosterone (DHT), DHT+flutamide (AR antagonist), flutamide alone, or vehicle for 24 h and subsequently presented with an excitatory glutamate stimulus. In the absence of glutamate stimulation, DHT treatment caused a significant upward shift in baseline [Ca(2+)](i) when compared with neurons from all other groups. Glutamate had a greater effect on [Ca(2+)](i) in DHT-treated neurons and DHT-treated neurons returned to baseline levels significantly faster than all other groups. Cyclopiazonic acid, an inhibitor of sarco/endoplasmic reticulum calcium ATPase (SERCA) had a larger response in DHT-treated neurons compared with controls, suggesting increased Ca(2+) stores in DHT-treated neurons. In all cases the effects of DHT were blocked by treatment with flutamide indicating an AR-mediated mechanism. To determine a possible mechanism by which AR activation could be influencing [Ca(2+)](i), SERCA2 mRNA levels were measured in primary hippocampal neurons. SERCA2 is inserted into the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) membrane and functions to rapidly pump [Ca(2+)](i) into the ER. Following treatment of primary hippocampal neurons with DHT, SERCA2 mRNA was increased, an effect that was blocked in the presence of flutamide. Taken together these results indicate that DHT, working through AR, causes an up-regulation of SERCA2, which increases the sequestering of [Ca(2+)](i) in the endoplasmic reticulum of hippocampal neurons. Such changes may allow the neurons to respond more robustly to a stimulus and recover more quickly following a highly stimulatory challenge.
Microglia are innate immune cells and form the first line of defense of the CNS. Proliferation is a key event in the activation of microglia in acute pathology, and has been extensively characterized in rats, but not in mice. In this study we investigated axonal-lesion-induced microglial proliferation and surface antigen expression in C57BL/6 mice. Transection of the entorhino-dentate perforant path projection results in an anterograde axonal and a dense terminal degeneration that induces a region-specific activation of microglia in the dentate gyrus. Time-course analysis showed activation of microglial cells within the first week post-lesion and cell counting demonstrated a significant 1.6-fold increase in microglial numbers 24 h post-lesion reaching a maximal 3.8-fold increase 3 days post-lesion compared with controls. Double staining for the microglial macrophage antigen-1 and the proliferation marker bromodeoxyuridine, injected 1 h prior to perfusion, showed that lesion-reactive microglia accounted for the vast majority of proliferating cells. Microglia proliferated as soon as 24 h after lesion and 25% of all microglial cells were proliferating 3 days post-lesion. Immunofluorescence double staining showed that most activated, proliferating microglia occurred in multicellular clusters and co-expressed the intercellular adhesion molecule-1 and the hematopoietic stem cell marker cluster of differentiation 34. In conclusion, this study extends observations of axonal lesion-induced microglial proliferation in rats to mice, and provides new information on early microglial proliferation and microglial cluster formation and surface antigen expression in the mouse.
A population of mouse embryonic stem (ES)-derived neural stem cells (named NS cells) that exhibits traits reminiscent of radial glia-like cell population and that can be homogeneously expanded in monolayer while remaining stable and highly neurogenic over multiple passages has been recently discovered. This novel population has provided a unique in vitro system in which to investigate physiological events occurring as stem cells lose multipotency and terminally differentiate. Here we analysed the timing, quality and quantity of the appearance of the excitability properties of differentiating NS cells which have been long-term expanded in vitro. To this end, we studied the biophysical properties of voltage-dependent Na(+) currents as an electrophysiological readout for neuronal maturation stages of differentiating NS cells toward the generation of fully functional neurons, since the expression of neuronal voltage-gated Na(+) channels is an essential hallmark of neuronal differentiation and crucial for signal transmission in the nervous system. Using the whole cell and single-channel cell-attached variations of the patch-clamp technique we found that the Na(+) currents in NS cells showed substantial electrophysiological changes during in vitro neuronal differentiation, consisting mainly in an increase of Na(+) current density and in a shift of the steady-state activation and inactivation curves toward more negative and more positive potentials respectively. The changes in the Na(+) channel system were closely related with the ability of differentiating NS cells to generate action potentials, and could therefore be exploited as an appropriate electrophysiological marker of ES-derived NS cells undergoing functional neuronal maturation.
Despite showing high affinity for neuroleptics and hallucinogens, the function of the 5-HT7 receptor in cognition remains largely speculative. This study tests the hypothesis that 5-HT7 participates in gauging salience of novel visual stimuli as a function of the animal's initial tendency for novelty-seeking. Novelty-seeking behavior in the rat is thought to model some aspects of sensation-seeking in humans, a personality trait closely associated to drug abuse. We analyzed the effects of the 5-HT7 receptor antagonist SB269.970 (3 mg kg(-1) or 15 mg kg(-1) i.p.) on object-recognition tasks using rats that differed in exploration of novel environments, namely high (HR) and low (LR) responders. The task involved a first encounter with an object (&quot;old&quot;), which after a delay of 3 h had to be discriminated from a different object (&quot;new&quot;). The antagonist was injected into HR and LR rats immediately after the first encounter with the objects and its effects on recall of objects were evaluated. In the absence of drug, LR but not HR rats were able to discriminate the familiarity of previously encountered objects. A low dose (3 mg kg(-1)) of SB269.970 was ineffective in altering object discrimination. A higher dose (15 mg kg(-1)) inhibited novel-object exploration in LR animals thus curtailing differences in object recognition, a finding that was replicated. In order to validate our studies, the effects of the cholinergic muscarinic antagonist scopolamine (0.2 mg kg(-1), i.p.) on object recognition were also evaluated in one of the cohorts 2 weeks after the first NOD experiment. In the Choice phase, all vehicle-treated rats succeeded in recognizing the new object. Scopolamine inhibited object discrimination in HR rats more efficiently than it did in LR rats. Taken together, these results suggest that 5-HT7 may mediate attentional and memory processes relevant to novelty-induced arousal.
Apoptotic cell death is considered to play a key role in gentamicin-induced cochlear hair cell loss. Inhibitor of apoptosis proteins (IAPs) are important regulators of apoptosis that can prevent activation of effector caspases. This study was designed to investigate the possible involvement of X-linked inhibitor of apoptosis protein (XIAP) in hair cell death due to gentamicin. Basal turn organ of Corti explants from postnatal day (p) p3 or p4 rats were maintained in tissue culture and were exposed to 35 muM gentamicin for up to 48 h. Effects of specific XIAP inhibitors on gentamicin-induced hair cell loss and caspase-3 activation were examined. XIAP inhibitors increased gentamicin-induced hair cell loss but an inactive analog had no effect. Caspase-3 activation was primarily observed at 36 or 48 h in gentamicin-treated hair cells, whereas caspase-3 activation peaked at 24-36 h when explants were treated with gentamicin and an XIAP inhibitor. The inhibitors alone had no effect on hair cells. Finally, a caspase-3 inhibitor decreased caspase-3 activation and hair cell loss induced by gentamicin and an XIAP inhibitor, but caspase-8 and -9 inhibitors did not. The results indicate that XIAP normally acts to decrease caspase-3 activation and hair cell loss during gentamicin ototoxicity, as part of a protective response to potentially damaging stimuli.
Agonist-induced desensitization of the transient receptor potential vanilloid receptor-1 (TRPV1) is one of the key strategies that offer a way to alleviate neuropathic and inflammatory pain. This process is initiated by TRPV1 receptor activation and the subsequent entry of extracellular Ca(2+) through the channel into sensory neurones. One of the prominent mechanisms responsible for TRPV1 desensitization is dephosphorylation of the TRPV1 protein by the Ca(2+)/calmodulin-dependent enzyme, phosphatase 2B (calcineurin). Of several consensus phosphorylation sites identified so far, the most notable are two sites for Ca(2+)/calmodulin dependent kinase II (CaMKII) at which the dynamic equilibrium between the phosphorylated and dephosphorylated states presumably regulates agonist binding. We examined the mechanisms of acute Ca(2+)-dependent desensitization using whole-cell patch-clamp techniques in human embryonic kidney (HEK) 293T cells expressing the wild type or CaMKII phosphorylation site mutants of rat TRPV1. The nonphosphorylatable mutant S502A/T704I was capsaicin-insensitive but the S502A/T704A construct was fully functional, indicating a requirement for a specific residue at position 704. A point mutation at the nearby conserved residue R701 strongly affected the heat, capsaicin and pH-evoked currents. As this residue constitutes a stringent CaMKII consensus site but is also predicted to be involved in the interaction with membrane phosphatidylinositol 4,5-bisphosphate (PIP(2)), these data suggest that in addition to dephosphorylation, or as its consequence, a short C-terminal juxtamembrane segment adjacent to the transient receptor potential box composed of R701 and T704 might be involved in the decelerated gating kinetics of the desensitized TRPV1 channel.
Aluminum (Al(3+)), a known neurotoxic substance, has long been implicated in the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease and other neurodegenerative diseases. Al(3+) targets many ligand-gated and voltage-gated ion channels and modulates their functions. In the present study, the actions of Al(3+) on the nicotinic acetylcholine receptor (nAChR) were investigated by whole-cell patch clamp technique in acutely isolated rat trigeminal ganglion neurons. We observed that Al(3+) potentiated nicotine-evoked inward currents in a concentration-dependent manner (10-1000 microM). The effects of Al(3+) on nicotine-evoked currents were voltage independent. Al(3+) appeared to increase the affinity of nicotine to nAChR but not the efficacy. Al(3+) reduced the agonist concentration producing a half-maximal response (EC(50)) for nicotine from 74.4+/-1.9 microM to 32.9+/-2.6 microM, but did not alter the threshold nor maximal response. On the contrary, another trivalent cation, Ga(3+), had little effect on nicotine-evoked currents. The present results indicated that Al(3+) enhanced the function of nAChR and this potentiation might underlie the neurological alteration induced by Al(3+).
Bedridden patients who receive good physical rehabilitation are able to exhibit clinical improvement. Accumulating evidence demonstrates that exercise increases endogenous neurogenesis and may even protect against central nervous system (CNS) disorders. Here, we explored the effects of lack of exercise on neurogenesis in rats by employing a routine hindlimb suspension (HS) model over a 2-week period, which consists of elevating their tails, thereby raising their hindlimbs above the ground and unloading the weights in these extremities. In addition, the effects of exercise and recovery time with normal caging after HS were also explored. BrdU (50 mg/kg, i.p.) was injected every 8 h over the last 4 days of each paradigm to label proliferative cells. Immunohistochemical results revealed that HS significantly reduced the number of BrdU/Doublecortin double-positive cells in the subventricular zone and dentate gyrus. Exercise and recovery time significantly improved atrophy of the soleus muscle, but did not attenuate the HS-induced decrement in BrdU/Dcx-positive cells. A separate cohort of animals was exposed to the same HS paradigm and enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) of neurotrophic factors was performed on brain tissue samples harvested at the end of the HS period, as well as plasma samples from all animals. ELISA results revealed that HS reduced the levels of brain-derived neurotrophic factor in the hippocampus and vascular endothelial growth factor plasma levels. This study revealed that lack of exercise reduced neurogenesis with downregulation of neurotrophic factors. The use of the HS model in conjunction with CNS disease models should further elucidate the role of exercise in neurogenesis and neurotrophic factors in neurologic disorders.
Physical rehabilitation with endurance exercise for patients with Parkinson's disease has not been well established, although some clinical and laboratory reports suggest that exercise may produce a neuroprotective effect and restore dopaminergic and motor functions. In this study, we used a chronic mouse model of Parkinsonism, which was induced by injecting male C57BL/6 mice with 10 doses of 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (25 mg/kg) and probenecid (250 mg/kg) over 5 weeks. This chronic parkinsonian model displays a severe and persistent loss of nigrostriatal neurons, resulting in robust dopamine depletion and locomotor impairment in mice. Following the induction of Parkinsonism, these mice were able to sustain an exercise training program on a motorized rodent treadmill at a speed of 18 m/min, 0 degrees of inclination, 40 min/day, 5 days/week for 4 weeks. At the end of exercise training, we examined and compared their cardiorespiratory capacity, behavior, and neurochemical changes with that of the probenecid-treated control and sedentary parkinsonian mice. The resting heart rate after 4 weeks of exercise in the chronic parkinsonian mice was significantly lower than the rate before exercise, whereas the resting heart rate at the beginning and 4 weeks afterward in the control or sedentary parkinsonian mice was unchanged. Exercised parkinsonian mice also recovered from elevated electrocardiogram R-wave amplitude that was detected in the parkinsonian mice without exercise for 4 weeks. The values of oxygen consumption, carbon dioxide production, and body heat generation in the exercised parkinsonian mice before and during the Bruce maximal exercise challenge test were all significantly lower than that of their sedentary counterparts. Furthermore, the exercised parkinsonian mice demonstrated a greater mass in the left ventricle of the heart and an increased level of citrate synthase activity in the skeletal muscles. The amphetamine-induced, dopamine release-dependent locomotor activity was markedly inhibited in the sedentary parkinsonian mice and was also inhibited in the exercised parkinsonian mice. Finally, neuronal recovery from the loss of nigrostriatal tyrosine hydroxylase expression and dopamine levels in the severe parkinsonian mice after exercise was not evident. Taken all together, these data suggest that 4 weeks of treadmill exercise promoted physical endurance, resulting in cardiorespiratory and metabolic adaptations in the chronic parkinsonian mice with severe neurodegeneration without demonstrating a restorative potential for the nigrostriatal dopaminergic function.
Pregnancy and the postpartum period are a time of maximal neural and behavioral plasticity. Recent work has shown that hippocampus-dependent learning and memory performance and hippocampus morphology are affected by motherhood and reproductive experience (number of times pregnant and given birth). Adult neurogenesis in the dentate gyrus of the hippocampus is influenced by steroid hormones such as estradiol and corticosterone, which fluctuate during pregnancy and the postpartum period. Thus, it is possible that hippocampal neurogenesis may be affected by motherhood and reproductive experience. The present study aimed to investigate the role of reproductive experience on hippocampal neurogenesis via cell proliferation and cell survival and to determine whether differences were due to the effect of pregnancy and/or pup-exposure alone. Four groups of female Sprague-Dawley rats were used; multiparous, primiparous, nulliparous, and nulliparous rats exposed to pups. All rats were injected with 5-bromo-2-deoxyuridine (BrdU) (200 mg/kg) approximately 24 h after birth/pup-exposure with age-matched controls. Rats were perfused either 24 h (Expt. 1: Cell proliferation) or 21 days (Expt. 2: Cell survival) after BrdU injection. Results show there is a significant decrease in cell proliferation in the dentate gyrus of primiparous and multiparous rats during the early postpartum period, and a decrease in cell survival in the dentate gyrus during the postpartum in primiparous rats, regardless of pup-exposure, compared with all other groups. In addition, brief pup exposure to nulliparous rats significantly increased cell proliferation and cell death in the dentate gyrus, while 22 days of pup exposure to nulliparous rats (sensitized rats) resulted in increased cell survival and cell death in the dentate gyrus. Collectively these results indicate that reproductive experience significantly affects hippocampal neurogenesis and that these effects are not due to the effect of pregnancy or pup-exposure alone.
Extracellular ATP facilitates the release of dopamine via P2 receptor activation in parts of the mesolimbic system. To characterize P2X/Y receptor subtypes in the developing dopaminergic system, their expression in organotypic slice co-cultures including the ventral tegmental area/substantia nigra (VTA/SN) complex and the prefrontal cortex (PFC) was studied in comparison to the receptor expression in 3-5 day-old and adult rats. Reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) with specific primers for the P2X(1,2,3,4,6,7) and P2Y(1) receptors in the tissue extracts of organotypic co-cultures revealed the presence of the P2X and P2Y receptor mRNAs investigated. Multiple immunofluorescence labeling of the P2X/Y receptor protein indicated differences in the regional expression in the organotypic co-cultures after 10 days of cultivation (VTA/SN, P2X(1,2,3,4,6,7), P2Y(1,6,12); PFC, P2X(1,3,4,6,7), P2Y(1,2,4,6,12)). At postnatal days 3-5, an immunofluorescence mostly comparable to that of adult rats was observed (VTA/SN and PFC: P2X(1,2,3,4,6,7), P2Y(1,2,4,6,12)). There was one important exception: the P2X(7) receptor immunocytochemistry was not found in adult tissue, suggesting a potential role of this receptor in the development. Only few P2 receptors (e.g. P2X(1), P2Y(1)) were expressed at fibers interconnecting the dopaminergic VTA/SN with the PFC in the organotypic co-cultures. The treatment of the cultures with the ATP analogues 2-methylthio-ATP and alpha,beta-methylene-ATP induced an increase in axonal outgrowth and fiber density, which could be inhibited by pre-treatment with the P2X/Y receptor antagonist pyridoxal-phosphate-6-azophenyl-2',4'-disulphonic acid. The co-localization of the dopamine-(D1) receptor with the P2X(1) receptor in organotypic slice cultures was evident. In the PFC of the co-cultures, and that of young but not adult rats, a number of tyrosine hydroxylase (TH)-positive cells also possessed P2Y(1)-immunoreactivity (IR). Additionally, a strong P2Y(1)-IR was observed on astrocytes. The present results show a time-, region- and cell type-dependent in vitro and in vivo expression pattern of different P2 receptor subtypes in the dopaminergic system indicating the involvement of ATP and its receptors in neuronal development and growth.
Most odorants, in addition to the olfactory system, also activate the intranasal trigeminal system. Recent studies have shown that pure trigeminal stimulation activates somatosensory regions as well as regions traditionally thought of as primary olfactory areas. As a main aim of this study we wished to a) ascertain which brain regions are responsive to an &quot;artificially&quot; bimodal odor composed of a trigeminal (CO(2)) and an olfactory stimulant (phenyl ethyl alcohol, PEA) and b) determine if presenting CO(2) and PEA simultaneously activates different brain regions than when presenting them individually. Fifteen men were scanned using functional magnetic resonance imaging while smelling PEA, CO(2), and a mixture of both stimuli (CO(2)PEA) presented simultaneously. Odors were presented monorhinally to the right nostril in a block design. The contrast between CO(2)PEA and baseline revealed areas implicated in the processing of both olfactory and trigeminal stimuli. When the mixture was contrasted with the sum of its single components (CO(2)PEA-{CO(2)+PEA}), activations in integration centers (left superior temporal and right intraparietal sulcus) and in orbitofrontal areas (left medial and lateral orbitofrontal cortex) were detected. The opposite contrast ({CO(2)+PEA}-CO(2)PEA) did not reveal any significant activation. In contrast to studies which have used natural mixed olfactory/trigeminal stimuli, we have shown that the perception of an artificial mixed olfactory/trigeminal stimulus activates, as opposed to inhibiting the olfactory cortex. Further, we also conclude that a mixed olfactory/trigeminal stimulus appears to lead to higher cortical activations than the sum of its parts.
The thalamus contains two main populations of projection neurons that selectively innervate different elements of the cortical microcircuit: the well-known &quot;specific&quot; or &quot;core&quot; (C-type) cells that innervate cortical layer IV, and, the &quot;matrix&quot; (M-type) cells that innervate layer I. Observations in different mammal species suggest that this may be a conserved, basic organizational principle of thalamocortical networks. Fragmentary observations in primate sensory nuclei suggest that M-type and C-type cells might be distinguished by their selective expression of calcium binding-proteins. In adult rats, we tested this proposal in a systematic manner throughout the thalamus. Applying Fast-Blue (FB) to a large swath of the pial surface in the lateral aspect of the cerebral hemisphere we labeled a large part of the M-type cell populations in the thalamus and subsequently examined FB co-localization with calbindin or parvalbumin immunoreactivity in thalamic neuron somata. FB-labeled cells were present in large numbers in the ventromedial, interanteromedial, posterior, lateral posterior and medial geniculate nuclei. Distribution of the FB-labeled neuron somata was roughly coextensive with that of the calbindin immunolabeled somata, while parvalbumin immunoreactive somata were virtually absent from dorsal thalamus. Co-localization of FB and calbindin immunolabeling ranged from &gt;95% in the ventromedial and interanteromedial nuclei, to 30% in the dorsal lateral geniculate. Moreover, in the ventromedial and interanteromedial nuclei nearly all of the calbindin-immunoreactive neurons were also labeled with FB. In most other nuclei, however, a major population of M-type cells cannot be identified with calbindin immunolabeling. Consistent with studies in primates and carnivores, present data show that in rats M-type cells are numerous and widely distributed across the rat thalamus; however, calbindin is expressed only by a fraction, albeit a large one, of these cells.
The aim of the present study was to explore whether endogenous activation of different purine receptors by ATP and adenosine contributes to or inhibits excess glutamate release evoked by ischemic-like conditions in rat hippocampal slices. Combined oxygen-glucose deprivation (OGD) elicited a substantial, [Ca(2+)](o)-independent release of [(3)H]glutamate, which was tetrodotoxin (1 microM)-sensitive and temperature-dependent. The P2 receptor antagonist pyridoxalphosphate-6-azophenyl-2',4'-disulfonic acid (PPADS, 0.1-10 microM), and the selective P2X(7) receptor antagonist Brilliant Blue G (1-100 nM), decreased OGD-evoked [(3)H]glutamate efflux indicating that endogenous ATP facilitates ischemia-evoked glutamate release. The selective A(1)-receptor antagonist 1,3-dipropyl-8-cyclopentylxanthine (DPCPX, 0.1-250 nM) and the selective A(2A) receptor antagonists 4-(2-[7-amino-2-)2-furyl(triazolo-[1,3,5]triazin-5-ylamino]ethyl)phenol (ZM241385, 0.1-20 nM) and 7-(2-phenylethyl)-5-amino-2-(2-furyl)-pyrazolo-[4,3-e]-1,2,4-triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidine (SCH58261, 2-100 nM) decreased OGD-evoked [(3)H]glutamate efflux, indicating that endogenous adenosine also facilitates glutamate release under these conditions. The effect of DPCPX and ZM241385 was reversed, whereas the action of P2 receptor antagonists was potentiated by the selective ecto-ATPase inhibitor 6-N,N-diethyl-D-beta,gamma-dibromomethyleneATP (ARL67156, 50 microM). The binding characteristic of the A(2A) ligand [(3)H]CGS21680 to hippocampal membranes did not change significantly in response to OGD. Taken together these data suggest that while A(1) receptors might became desensitized, A(2A) and P2X receptor-mediated facilitation of glutamate release by endogenous ATP and its breakdown product adenosine remains operational under long-term OGD. Therefore the inhibition of P2X/A(2A) receptors rather than the stimulation of A(1) adenosine receptors could be an effective approach to attenuate glutamatergic excitotoxicity and thereby counteract ischemia-induced neurodegeneration.
Hippocampal sclerosis is the most frequent pathology encountered in mesial temporal structures resected from patients with intractable temporal lobe epilepsy and it mainly involves hippocampal neuronal loss and gliosis. These alterations are accompanied by changes in the expression of a variety of molecules in the surviving neurons, as well as axonal reorganization in both excitatory and inhibitory circuits. The alteration of a subpopulation of GABAergic interneurons that expresses the calcium binding protein parvalbumin (PV) is thought to be a key factor in the epileptogenic process. We investigated the distribution and density of parvalbumin-immunoreactive (PV-ir) neurons in surgically resected hippocampal tissue from epileptic patients with and without sclerosis. Using quantitative stereological methods, we show for the first time that there is no correlation between total neuronal loss and PV-ir neuronal loss in any of the hippocampal fields. We also observed higher values of the total neuronal density in the sclerotic subiculum, which is accompanied by a lower density of PV-ir when compared with non-sclerotic epileptic and autopsy hippocampi. These findings suggest that, the apparently normal subiculum from sclerotic patients also shows unexpected changes in the density and proportion of PV-ir neurons.
Sensory stimulation and electrical stimulation of sensory pathways evoke an increase in acetylcholine release from the corresponding cortical areas. The pathways by which such sensory information reaches the cholinergic neurons of the basal forebrain that are responsible for this release are unclear, but have been hypothesized to pass through the prefrontal cortex (PFC). This hypothesis was tested in urethane-anesthetized rats using microdialysis to collect acetylcholine from somatosensory, visual, or auditory cortex, before and after the PFC was inactivated by local microdialysis delivery of the GABA-A receptor agonist muscimol (0.2% for 10 min at 2 microl/min). Before PFC inactivation, peripheral sensory stimulation and ventral posterolateral thalamic stimulation evoked 60 and 105% increases, respectively, in acetylcholine release from somatosensory cortex. Stimulation of the lateral geniculate nucleus evoked a 57% increase in acetylcholine release from visual cortex and stimulation of the medial geniculate nucleus evoked a 72% increase from auditory cortex. Muscimol delivery to the PFC completely abolished each of these evoked increases (overall mean change from baseline = -7%). In addition, the spontaneous level of acetylcholine release in somatosensory, visual, and auditory cortices was reduced by 15-59% following PFC inactivation, suggesting that PFC activity has a tonic facilitatory influence on the basal forebrain cholinergic neurons. These experiments demonstrate that the PFC is necessary for sensory pathway evoked cortical ACh release and strongly support the proposed sensory cortex-to-PFC-to-basal forebrain circuit for each of these modalities.
Valproic acid (VPA), a widely prescribed drug for seizures and bipolar disorder, has been shown to be an inhibitor of histone deacetylase (HDAC). Our previous study has demonstrated that VPA pretreatment reduces lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-induced dopaminergic (DA) neurotoxicity through the inhibition of microglia over-activation. The aim of this study was to determine the mechanism underlying VPA-induced attenuation of microglia over-activation using rodent primary neuron/glia or enriched glia cultures. Other histone deacetylase inhibitors (HDACIs) were compared with VPA for their effects on microglial activity. We found that VPA induced apoptosis of microglia cells in a time- and concentration-dependent manner. VPA-treated microglial cells showed typical apoptotic hallmarks including phosphatidylserine externalization, chromatin condensation and DNA fragmentation. Further studies revealed that trichostatin A (TSA) and sodium butyrate (SB), two structurally dissimilar HDACIs, also induced microglial apoptosis. The apoptosis of microglia was accompanied by the disruption of mitochondrial membrane potential and the enhancement of acetylation levels of the histone H3 protein. Moreover, pretreatment with SB or TSA caused a robust decrease in LPS-induced pro-inflammatory responses and protected DA neurons from damage in mesencephalic neuron-glia cultures. Taken together, our results shed light on a novel mechanism whereby HDACIs induce neuroprotection and underscore the potential utility of HDACIs in preventing inflammation-related neurodegenerative disorders such as Parkinson's disease.
Most of our everyday activities take place in familiar environments learned in the past which we need to constantly navigate. Despite our obvious reliance on these remote spatial memories, until quite recently relatively little was known about how they are instantiated in the human brain. Here we will consider developments in the neuropsychological and neuroimaging domains where innovative methodologies and novel analysis techniques are providing new opportunities for exploring the brain dynamics underpinning the retrieval and use of remotely learned spatial information. These advances allow three key questions to be considered anew: What brain areas in humans support the retrieval and use of remotely learned spatial information? Where in the brain are spatial memories stored? Do findings relating to remote spatial memory inform theoretical debates about memory consolidation? In particular, the hippocampus, parahippocampus, retrosplenial and parietal cortices are scrutinized, revealing new insights into their specific contributions to representing spaces and places from the past.
High frequency stimulation (HFS) is applied to many brain regions to treat a variety of neurological disorders/diseases, yet the mechanism(s) underlying its effects remains unclear. While some studies showed that HFS inhibits the stimulated nucleus, others report excitation. In this in vitro study, we stimulated the rat globus pallidus interna (entopeduncular nucleus, EP), a commonly stimulated area for Parkinson's disease, to investigate the effect of HFS-induced elevation of extracellular potassium (K(+)(e)) on rat EP neuronal activity. Whole-cell patch-clamp recordings and [K(+)](e) measurements were obtained in rat EP brain slices before, during and after HFS. After HFS (150 Hz, 10 s), [K(+)](e) increased from 2.5-9.6+/-1.4 mM, the resting membrane potential of EP neurons depolarized by 11.1+/-2.5 mV, spiking activity was significantly depressed, and input resistance decreased by 25+/-6%. The GABA(A) receptor blocker, gabazine, did not prevent these effects. The bath perfusion of 6 or 10 mM K(+), with or without synaptic blockers, mimicked the HFS-mediated effects: inhibition of spike activity, a 20+/-9% decrease in input resistance and a 17.4+/-3.0 mV depolarization. This depolarization exceeded predicted values of elevated [K(+)](e) on the resting membrane potential. A depolarization block did not fully account for the K(+)-induced inhibition of EP neuronal activity. Taken together, our results show that HFS-induced elevation of [K(+)](e) decreased EP neuronal activity by the activation of an ion conductance resulting in membrane depolarization, independent of synaptic involvement. These findings could explain the inhibitory effects of HFS on neurons of the stimulated nucleus.
Matrix metalloproteinase-7 (MMP-7) belongs to a family of zinc dependent endopeptidases that are expressed in a variety of tissues including the brain. MMPs are known to be potent mediators of pericellular proteolysis and likely mediators of dynamic remodelling of neuronal connections. While an association between proteases and the neuronal synapse is emerging, a full understanding of this relationship is lacking. Here, we show that MMP-7 alters the structure and function of presynaptic terminals without affecting neuronal survival. Bath application of recombinant MMP-7 to cultured rat neurons induced long-lasting inhibition of vesicular recycling as measured by synaptotagmin 1 antibody uptake assays and FM4-64 optical imaging. MMP-7 application resulted in reduced abundance of vesicular and active zone proteins locally within synaptic terminals although their general levels remained unaltered. Finally, chronic application of the protease resulted in synaptic atrophy, including smaller terminals and fewer synaptic vesicles, as determined by electron microscopy. Together these results suggest that MMP-7 is a potent modulator of synaptic vesicle recycling and synaptic ultrastructure and that elevated levels of the enzyme, as may occur with brain inflammation, may adversely influence neurotransmission.
The aim of the present study was to evaluate the effects of systemic administration of the N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA) receptor antagonist MK-801 on different stages of non-spatial object recognition memory processing in mice. To this end we used the object recognition test, where the animal is tested for its ability to discriminate between an old, familiar, and a novel object. MK-801 (0.1 or 0.2 mg/kg) or saline was administered 1) 30 min before or 2) directly after the first, introductory, session or 3) 30 min before the recognition session. Memory retention was evaluated 1.5 h after the introductory session. MK-801 appeared to decrease memory retention when given prior to the introductory session, but not when given directly after the introductory session or before the recognition session, where MK-801 instead induced an increased interest for the novel object. These results suggest that activation of NMDA receptors is a requisite for encoding of recognition memory in mice but not for consolidation and retrieval processes. The increased interest for the novel object showing up when MK-801 was given directly after the introductory session or before the recognition session may reflect a facilitation of retention. Alternatively, the phencyclidine-like, psychotogenic properties of MK-801 could result in an amplification of the perceived salience of the novel object, and/or anxiolytic mechanisms could result in neophilic effects.
A fundamental requirement for integrating neuroscience data is a well-structured ontology that can incorporate, accommodate and reconcile different neuroanatomical views. Here we describe the challenges in creating such ontology, and, because of its principled design, illustrate the potential of the Foundational Model of Anatomy to be that ontology.
Recently in Nature Neuroscience, Gaillard et al. (2007) study axonal projections from embryonic cortical explants grafted into acutely damaged adult motor cortex. After attempting to rule out fusion of donor tissue with pre-existing host circuitry, the authors report robust long-distance donor axonal projections and synaptic integration into target regions appropriate for the motor system.
The multidrug transporter, P-glycoprotein, expressed at the blood-brain barrier is thought to be important for limiting access of toxic agents to the brain, but its relationship to astrocyte expression is unclear. We have studied P-glycoprotein expression in the inferior colliculus after a temporary loss of blood-brain barrier integrity following chemically induced astrocyte loss and at the fenestrated vascular endothelium of the area postrema. Male Fisher F344 rats given 3-chloropropanediol showed astrocyte loss from 12 to 24 h until the lesion was repopulated 8-28 days later. In non-dosed tissue, P-glycoprotein expression was seen the entire length of platelet endothelial cell adhesion molecule immunoreactive vessels. Within 6 h of dosing, a significant (p&lt;0.05) reduction in the total length of P-glycoprotein immunoreactive vasculature was evident. By 48 h, P-glycoprotein immunoreactivity was heavily fragmented. The total length of P-glycoprotein immunoreactive vessels became minimal at 4 days (p&lt;0.001) but was still present in many vessels. From 6 to 28 days, P-glycoprotein immunoreactivity returned across the inferior colliculus, in parallel with astrocytic repopulation of the lesion, and by 28 days resembled that seen in control tissue. The area postrema showed GFAP immunoreactive astrocytes but which made limited contact with the vasculature, while the platelet endothelial cell adhesion molecule immunoreactive vasculature showed no expression of P-glycoprotein. These findings provide evidence supporting a link between GFAP-astrocyte and P-glycoprotein expression in the mature brain vasculature in vivo.
The locus coeruleus (LC) is a major noradrenergic brain nucleus that regulates states of arousal, optimizes task-oriented decision making, and may also play an important role in modulating the activity of the reproductive neuroendocrine axis. Rodent studies have shown that the LC is responsive to glutamate receptor agonists, and that it expresses various glutamate receptor subunits. However, glutamate receptor subunit expression has not been extensively examined in the primate LC. We previously demonstrated expression of the NR1 NMDA glutamate receptor subunit in the rhesus macaque LC and now extend this work by also examining the expression of non-NMDA (AMPA and kainate) ionotropic glutamate receptor subunits. Using in situ hybridization histochemistry and immunohistochemistry, we confirmed the presence of the obligatory NR1 subunit in the LC. In addition, we demonstrated expression of the AMPA glutamate receptor subunits GluR1, GluR2, and GluR3. More extensive receptor profiling, using rhesus monkey gene microarrays (Affymetrix GeneChip), further corroborated the histological findings and showed expression of mRNA encoding ionotropic glutamate receptor subunits NR2A, NR2D, GluR4, and GluR6, as well as the metabotropic glutamate receptor subunits mGluR1, mGluR3, mGluR4, mGluR5, and mGluR7. These data provide a foundation for future examination of how changes in glutamate receptor composition contribute to the control of primate physiology.
During development, multiple guidance cues direct the formation of appropriate synaptic connections. Factors that guide developing axons are known for various pathways throughout the mammalian brain; however, signals necessary to establish auditory connections are largely unknown. In the auditory brainstem the neurons whose axons traverse the midline in the ventral acoustic stria (VAS) are primarily located in the ventral cochlear nucleus (VCN) and project bilaterally to the superior olivary complex (SOC). The circumferential trajectory taken by developing VCN axons is similar to that of growing axons of spinal commissural neurons. Therefore, we reasoned that netrin-DCC and slit-robo signaling systems function in the guidance of VCN axons. VCN neurons express the transcription factor, mafB, as early as embryonic day (E) 13.5, thereby identifying the embryonic VCN for these studies. VCN axons extend toward the midline as early as E13, with many axons crossing by E14.5. During this time, netrin-1 and slit-1 RNAs are expressed at the brainstem midline. Additionally, neurons within the VCN express RNA for DCC, robo-1, and robo-2, and axons in the VAS are immunoreactive for DCC. VCN axons do not reach the midline of the brainstem in mice mutant for either the netrin-1 or DCC gene. VCN axons extend in pups lacking netrin-1, but most DCC-mutant samples lack VCN axonal outgrowth. Stereological cell estimates indicate only a modest reduction of VCN neurons in DCC-mutant mice. Taken together, these data show that a functional netrin-DCC signaling system is required for establishing proper VCN axonal projections in the auditory brainstem.
Development of chronic pain involves alterations in peripheral nociceptors as well as elevated neuronal activity in multiple regions of the CNS. Previous pharmacological and behavioral studies suggest that peripheral acid-sensing ion channels (ASICs) contribute to pain sensation, and the expression of ASIC subunits is elevated in the rat spinal dorsal horn (SDH) in an inflammatory pain model. However, the cellular distribution and the functional consequence of increased ASIC subunit expression in the SDH remain unclear. Here, we identify the Ca2+-permeable, homomeric ASIC1a channels as the predominant ASICs in rat SDH neurons and downregulation of ASIC1a by local rat spinal infusion with specific inhibitors or antisense oligonucleotides markedly attenuated complete Freund's adjuvant (CFA)-induced thermal and mechanical hypersensitivity. Moreover, in vivo electrophysiological recording showed that the elevated ASIC1a activity is required for two forms of central sensitization: C-fiber-induced &quot;wind-up&quot; and CFA-induced hypersensitivity of SDH nociceptive neurons. Together, our results reveal that increased ASIC activity in SDH neurons promotes pain by central sensitization. Specific blockade of Ca2+-permeable ASIC1a channels thus may have antinociceptive effect by reducing or preventing the development of central sensitization induced by inflammation.
Cajal-Retzius (CR) cells, the earliest-born neurons in the neocortex, arise from discrete sources within the telencephalon, including the dorsal midline and the pallial-subpallial boundary (PSB). In particular, the cortical hem, a region of high bone morphogenetic proteins (BMPs) and Wnt (wingless-type MMTV integration site family) expression but lacking in Foxg1 (forkhead box G1) is a major source of CR neurons. Whether CR cells from distinct origins arise from disparate developmental processes or share a common mechanism is unclear. To elucidate the molecular basis of CR cell development, we assessed the role of both Foxg1 and dorsal midline signaling in the production of cortical hem- and PSB-derived CR cells. We demonstrate that the loss of Foxg1 results in the overproduction of both of these CR populations. However, removal of Foxg1 at embryonic day 13, although expanding the number of CR cells with a PSB phenotype, does not result in an expansion of BMPs or Wnts in the dorsomedial signaling center. Conversely, loss of the dorsal midline ligands as observed in Gli3 (glioma-associated oncogene homolog 3) mutants results in the loss of the cortical hem-derived CR character but does not affect the specification of PSB-derived CR cells. Hence, our findings demonstrate that, although the specification of cortical hem-derived CR cells is dependent on signaling from the dorsal midline, Foxg1 functions to repress the generation of both cortical hem- and PSB-derived CR cells.
Activity-dependent competition between the corticospinal (CS) systems in each hemisphere drives postnatal development of motor skills and stable CS tract connections with contralateral spinal motor circuits. Unilateral restriction of motor cortex (M1) activity during an early postnatal critical period impairs contralateral visually guided movements later in development and in maturity. Silenced M1 develops aberrant connections with the contralateral spinal cord whereas the initially active M1, in the other hemisphere, develops bilateral connections. In this study, we determined whether the aberrant pattern of CS tract terminations and motor impairments produced by early postnatal M1 activity restriction could be abrogated by reducing activity-dependent synaptic competition from the initially active M1 later in development. We first inactivated M1 unilaterally between postnatal weeks 5-7. We next inactivated M1 on the other side from weeks 7-11 (alternate inactivation), to reduce the competitive advantage that this side may have over the initially inactivated side. Alternate inactivation redirected aberrant contralateral CS tract terminations from the initially silenced M1 to their normal spinal territories and reduced the density of aberrant ipsilateral terminations from the initially active side. Normal movement endpoint control during visually guided locomotion was fully restored. This reorganization of CS terminals reveals an unsuspected late plasticity after the critical period for establishing the pattern of CS terminations in the spinal cord. Our findings show that robust bilateral interactions between the developing CS systems on each side are important for achieving balance between contralateral and ipsilateral CS tract connections and visuomotor control.
Previous work has demonstrated that the surface glycoprotein (gp120) of human immunodeficiency virus-1 (HIV-1) can induce damage and apoptosis of neurons both in vitro and in vivo. In this report, we provide evidence that double-stranded RNA-activated protein kinase (PKR), a stress kinase, is involved in HIV/gp120-associated neurodegeneration. In cultures of mixed cortical cells, HIV/gp120 increased the protein level of PKR. Additionally, PKR was phosphorylated in neurons but not glia after exposure to gp120. The use of two independent pharmacological inhibitors of PKR activity abrogated neuronal cell death induced by gp120. Cortical neurons from PKR knock-out mice were significantly protected from neurotoxicity induced by gp120, further validating the pivotal proapoptotic function of PKR. gp120-induced phosphorylated PKR localized prominently to neuronal nuclei; PKR inhibition or the NMDA receptor antagonist MK-801 [(+)-5-methyl-10,11-dihydro-5H-dibenzo [a,d] cyclohepten-5,10-imine maleate] abrogated this effect. PKR inactivation also inhibited gp120-induced caspase-3 activation, consistent with its neuroprotective effect. Finally, brain tissue from individuals diagnosed with HIV-associated dementia (HAD), but not HIV infection alone, contained the activated form of PKR, which localized predominantly to neuronal nuclei. Together, these results identify PKR as a critical mediator of gp120 neurotoxicity, suggesting that activation of PKR contributes to the neuronal injury and cell death observed in HAD.
The olfactory bulb is a second-order brain region that connects sensory neurons with cortical areas. However, the olfactory bulb does not appear to play a simple relay role and is subject instead to extensive local and extrinsic synaptic influences. Prime among the external, or centrifugal, inputs is the dense cholinergic innervation from the basal forebrain, which terminates in both the granule cell and plexiform layers. Cholinergic inputs to the bulb have been implicated in olfactory working memory tasks in rodents and may be related to olfactory deficits reported in people with neurodegenerative disorders that involve basal forebrain neurons. In this study, we use whole-cell recordings from acute rat slices to demonstrate that one function of this input is to potentiate the excitability of GABAergic granule cells and thereby modulate inhibitory drive onto mitral cells. This increase in granule cell excitability is mediated by a concomitant decrease in the normal afterhyperpolarization response and augmentation of an afterdepolarization, both triggered by pirenzepine-sensitive M1 receptors. The afterdepolarization was dependent on elevations in intracellular calcium and appeared to be mediated by a calcium-activated nonselective cation current (I(CAN)). Near firing threshold, depolarizing inputs could evoke quasipersistent firing characterized by irregular discharges that lasted, on average, for 2 min. In addition to regulating the excitability of the primary interneuronal subtype in the bulb, M1 receptors regulate the degree of adaptation that occurs during repetitive sniffing-like inputs and may therefore play a critical role in regulating short-term plasticity in the olfactory system.


Neuronal Lewy body-like hyaline inclusions (LBHI) and astrocytic hyaline inclusions (Ast-HI) containing mutant Cu/Zn superoxide dismutase 1 (SOD1) are morphological hallmarks of familial amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (FALS) associated with mutant SOD1. However, the mechanisms by which mutant SOD1 contributes to formation of LBHI/Ast-HI in FALS remain poorly defined. Here, we report induction of LBHI/Ast-HI-like hyaline inclusions (LHIs) in vitro by ER stress in neuroblastoma cells. These LHI closely resemble LBHI/Ast-HI in patients with SOD1-linked FALS. LHI and LBHI/Ast-HI share the following features: 1) eosinophilic staining with a pale core, 2) SOD1, ubiquitin and ER resident protein (KDEL) positivity and 3) the presence of approximately 15-25 nm granule-coated fibrils, which are morphological hallmark of mutant SOD1-linked FALS. Moreover, in spinal cord neurons of L84V SOD1 transgenic mice at presymptomatic stage, we observed aberrant aggregation of ER and numerous free ribosomes associated with abnormal inclusion-like structures, presumably early stage neuronal LBHI. We conclude that the LBHI/Ast-HI seen in human patients with mutant SOD1-linked FALS may arise from ER dysfunction.


The control and adaptation of bimanual movements is often considered to be a function of a fixed set of mechanisms [1, 2]. Here, I show that both feedback control and adaptation change optimally with task goals. Participants reached with two hands to two separate spatial targets (two-cursor condition) or used the same bimanual movements to move a cursor presented at the spatial average location of the two hands to a single target (one-cursor condition). A force field was randomly applied to one of the hands. In the two-cursor condition, online corrections occurred only on the perturbed hand, whereas the other movement was controlled independently. In the one-cursor condition, online correction could be detected on both hands as early as 190 ms after the start. These changes can be shown to be optimal in respect to a simple task-dependent cost function [3]. Adaptation, the influence of a perturbation onto the next movement, also depended on task goals. In the two-cursor condition, only the perturbed hand adapted to a force perturbation [2], whereas in the one-cursor condition, both hands adapted. These findings demonstrate that the central nervous system changes bimanual feedback control and adaptation optimally according to the current task requirements.
The ventriloquist creates the illusion that his or her voice emerges from the visibly moving mouth of the puppet [1]. This well-known illusion exemplifies a basic principle of how auditory and visual information is integrated in the brain to form a unified multimodal percept. When auditory and visual stimuli occur simultaneously at different locations, the more spatially precise visual information dominates the perceived location of the multimodal event. Previous studies have examined neural interactions between spatially disparate auditory and visual stimuli [2-5], but none has found evidence for a visual influence on the auditory cortex that could be directly linked to the illusion of a shifted auditory percept. Here we utilized event-related brain potentials combined with event-related functional magnetic resonance imaging to demonstrate on a trial-by-trial basis that a precisely timed biasing of the left-right balance of auditory cortex activity by the discrepant visual input underlies the ventriloquist illusion. This cortical biasing may reflect a fundamental mechanism for integrating the auditory and visual components of environmental events, which ensures that the sounds are adaptively localized to the more reliable position provided by the visual input.
Whereas extensive neuroscientific and behavioral evidence has confirmed a role of auditory-visual integration in representing space [1-6], little is known about the role of auditory-visual integration in object perception. Although recent neuroimaging results suggest integrated auditory-visual object representations [7-11], substantiating behavioral evidence has been lacking. We demonstrated auditory-visual integration in the perception of face gender by using pure tones that are processed in low-level auditory brain areas and that lack the spectral components that characterize human vocalization. When androgynous faces were presented together with pure tones in the male fundamental-speaking-frequency range, faces were more likely to be judged as male, whereas when faces were presented with pure tones in the female fundamental-speaking-frequency range, they were more likely to be judged as female. Importantly, when participants were explicitly asked to attribute gender to these pure tones, their judgments were primarily based on relative pitch and were uncorrelated with the male and female fundamental-speaking-frequency ranges. This perceptual dissociation of absolute-frequency-based crossmodal-integration effects from relative-pitch-based explicit perception of the tones provides evidence for a sensory integration of auditory and visual signals in representing human gender. This integration probably develops because of concurrent neural processing of visual and auditory features of gender.
What are the genetic and neural components that support adaptive learning from positive and negative outcomes? Here, we show with genetic analyses that three independent dopaminergic mechanisms contribute to reward and avoidance learning in humans. A polymorphism in the DARPP-32 gene, associated with striatal dopamine function, predicted relatively better probabilistic reward learning. Conversely, the C957T polymorphism of the DRD2 gene, associated with striatal D2 receptor function, predicted the degree to which participants learned to avoid choices that had been probabilistically associated with negative outcomes. The Val/Met polymorphism of the COMT gene, associated with prefrontal cortical dopamine function, predicted participants' ability to rapidly adapt behavior on a trial-to-trial basis. These findings support a neurocomputational dissociation between striatal and prefrontal dopaminergic mechanisms in reinforcement learning. Computational maximum likelihood analyses reveal independent gene effects on three reinforcement learning parameters that can explain the observed dissociations.
EphA4-dependent growth cone collapse requires reorganization of actin cytoskeleton through coordinated activation of Rho family GTPases. Whereas various guanine exchange factors have recently been identified to be involved in EphA4-mediated regulation of Rho GTPases and growth cone collapse, the functional roles of GTPase-activating proteins in the process are largely unknown. Here we report that EphA4 interacts with alpha2-chimaerin through its Src homology 2 domain. Activated EphA4 induces a rapid increase of tyrosine phosphorylation of alpha2-chimaerin and enhances its GTPase-activating protein activity toward Rac1. More importantly, alpha2-chimaerin regulates the action of EphA4 in growth cone collapse through modulation of Rac1 activity. Our findings have therefore identified a new alpha2-chimaerin-dependent signaling mechanism through which EphA4 transduces its signals to the actin cytoskeleton and modulates growth cone morphology.
Neurosphere cultures provide a useful model to study neural stem/progenitor cells (NSC/NPCs). The degree to which neurospheres (NS) retain their regional identity in vitro has, however, been questioned. Here, NS obtained from mouse embryonic cortex, striatum or spinal cord were compared after differentiation. Neurons from cortical NS formed well ordered clusters containing astrocytes, those from striatal NS formed an external ring at the borderof the astrocyte layer, whereas those from spinal cord NS spread radially like the astrocytes. Such in-vitro neural behaviour was region-specific and persisted in clonal conditions, providing evidence of the maintenance of positional cues in NS cultures.
Alzheimer's disease (AD) is characterized by an extensive loss of cholinergic neurons, and their cortical projections, from the basal forebrain area. The resulting reduction in cholinergic activity is associated with decreased levels of the neurotransmitter acetylcholine (ACh), decreased activity of acetylcholinesterase (AChE), choline acetyltransferase (ChAT), and increased butyrylcholinesterase (BChE) activity. In the present study, we investigated whether the BCHE, ACHE, and CHAT genes were associated with AD and the possibility of a synergistic effect with APOE-epsilon4 in a Sardinian sample. AD patients (n = 158), exclusively of Sardinian ancestry, were recruited from the Division of Geriatrics Local Health Agency 8 and Unit of Clinical Pharmacology, Department of Neurosciences, University of Cagliari. Patients were diagnosed according to DSM-IV, and National Institute of Neurologic and Communicative Disorders and Stroke-AD and Related Disorders Association (NINCDS-ADRDA) criteria for possible or probable AD. Cognitive screening was performed by means of Mini-Mental State Examination (MMSE). Healthy controls (n = 118) of Sardinian ancestry were recruited from religious and sport associations. All patients and control subjects gave informed consent for participation in the study. Single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) analysis was performed by PCR/RFLP or the TaqMan 5' exonuclease method. Our study confirms the association between APOE epsilon4 allele and AD (P &lt; 0.000). No significant differences were observed in allele and genotype frequencies of BCHE, ACHE, and CHAT between AD and controls. Haplotype analysis of ACHE SNPs did not reveal a significant association between ACHE and AD. Our results suggest that the AChE, ChAT, and BChE polymorphisms do not constitute a major genetic risk factor for susceptibility to AD in a Sardinian population.
PDZ domains are common building blocks of scaffold proteins that enhance specificity and speed in signal transduction cascades. Although PDZ modules are often viewed as passive participants, Mishra et al. (2007) now show that a PDZ domain in INAD, a scaffold protein in photoreceptor cells of the fruit fly, undergoes a light-dependent conformational change, which has important consequences for signaling and animal behavior.
Reticulon 3 (RTN3) has recently been shown to modulate Alzheimer BACE1 activity and to play a role in the formation of dystrophic neurites present in Alzheimer brains. Despite the functional importance of this protein in Alzheimer disease pathogenesis, the functional correlation to the structural domain of RTN3 remained unclear. RTN3 has two long transmembrane domains, but its membrane topology was not known. We report here that the first transmembrane domain dictates membrane integration and its membrane topology. RTN3 adopts a omega-shape structure with two ends facing the cytosolic side. Subtle changes in RTN3 membrane topology can disrupt its binding to BACE1 and its inhibitory effects on BACE1 activity. Thus, the determination of RTN3 membrane topology may provide an important structural basis for our understanding of its cellular functions.
Gating modifiers of voltage-gated sodium channels (Na(v)s) are important tools in neuroscience research and may have therapeutic potential in medicinal disorders. Analysis of the bioactive surface of the scorpion beta-toxin Css4 (from Centruroides suffusus suffusus) toward rat brain (rNa(v)1.2a) and skeletal muscle (rNa(v)1.4) channels using binding studies revealed commonality but also substantial differences, which were used to design a specific activator, Css4(F14A/E15A/E28R), of rNa(v)1.4 expressed in Xenopus oocytes. The therapeutic potential of Css4(F14A/E15A/E28R) was tested using an rNa(v)1.4 mutant carrying the same mutation present in the genetic disorder hypokalemic periodic paralysis. The activator restored the impaired gating properties of the mutant channel expressed in oocytes, thus offering a tentative new means for treatment of neuromuscular disorders with reduced muscle excitability. Mutant double cycle analysis employing toxin residues involved in the construction of Css4(F14A/E15A/E28R) and residues whose equivalents in the rat brain channel rNa(v)1.2a were shown to affect Css4 binding revealed significant coupling energy (&gt;1.3 kcal/mol) between F14A and E592A at Domain-2/voltage sensor segments 1-2 (D2/S1-S2), R27Q and E1251N at D3/SS2-S6, and E28R with both E650A at D2/S3-S4 and E1251N at D3/SS2-S6. These results show that despite the differences in interactions with the rat brain and skeletal muscle Na(v)s, Css4 recognizes a similar region on both channel subtypes. Moreover, our data indicate that the S3-S4 loop of the voltage sensor module in Domain-2 is in very close proximity to the SS2-S6 segment of the pore module of Domain-3 in rNa(v)1.4. This is the first experimental evidence that the inter-domain spatial organization of mammalian Na(v)s resembles that of voltage-gated potassium channels.
The propagation of signals from synapses and dendrites to the nucleus is crucial for long lasting adaptive changes in the nervous system. The ERK-MAPK pathway can link neuronal activity and cell surface receptor activation to the regulation of gene transcription, and it is often considered the principal mediator of synapse-to-nucleus communication in late-phase plasticity and learning. However, the mechanisms underlying ERK1/2 trafficking in dendrites and nuclear translocation in neurons remain to be determined leaving it unclear whether ERK1/2 activated at the synapse can contribute to nuclear signaling and transcriptional regulation. Using the photobleachable and photoactivable fluorescent tag Dronpa on ERK1 and ERK2, we show here that ERK1/2 translocation to the nucleus of hippocampal neurons is induced by the stimulation of N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors or TrkB stimulation and is apparently mediated by facilitated diffusion. In contrast, ERK1/2 trafficking within dendrites is not signal-regulated and is mediated by passive diffusion. Within dendrites, the reach of a locally activated pool of ERK1/2 is very limited and follows an exponential decay with distance. These results indicate that successful signal propagation to the nucleus by the ERK-MAPK pathway depends on the distance of the nucleus from the site of ERK1/2 activation. ERK1/2 activated within or near the soma may rapidly reach the nucleus to induce gene expression, whereas ERK1/2 activated at distal synapses may only contribute to local signaling.
Stargazer mice fail to express the gamma2 isoform of transmembrane alpha-amino-3-hydroxyl-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionate (AMPA) receptor regulatory proteins that has been shown to be absolutely required for the trafficking and synaptic targeting of excitatory AMPA receptors in adult murine cerebellar granule cells. Here we show that 30 +/- 6% fewer inhibitory gamma-aminobutyric acid, type A (GABA(A)), receptors were expressed in adult stargazer cerebellum compared with controls because of a specific loss of GABA(A) receptor expression in the cerebellar granule cell layer. Radioligand binding assays allied to in situ immunogold-EM analysis and furosemide-sensitive tonic current estimates revealed that expression of the extrasynaptic (alpha6betaxdelta) alpha6-containing GABA(A) receptor were markedly and selectively reduced in stargazer. These observations were compatible with a marked reduction in expression of GABA(A) receptor alpha6, delta (mature cerebellar granule cell-specific proteins), and beta3 subunit expression in stargazer. The subunit composition of the residual alpha6-containing GABA(A) receptors was unaffected by the stargazer mutation. However, we did find evidence of an approximately 4-fold up-regulation of alpha1betadelta receptors that may compensate for the loss of alpha6-containing GABA(A) receptors. PCR analysis identified a dramatic reduction in the steady-state level of alpha6 mRNA, compatible with alpha6 being the primary target of the stargazer mutation-mediated GABA(A) receptor abnormalities. We propose that some aspects of assembly, trafficking, targeting, and/or expression of extrasynaptic alpha6-containing GABA(A) receptors in cerebellar granule cells are selectively regulated by AMPA receptor-mediated signaling.

Buschman and Miller (Reports, 30 March 2007, p. 1860) described the activity of ensembles of neurons in parietal and frontal cortex of monkeys performing visual search for targets that were easy or hard to distinguish from distractors. However, their conclusions are called into question by discrepancies between their results and publications from other laboratories measuring the same neural process.
Autism spectrum disorders (ASDs) are characterized by impairments in social behaviors that are sometimes coupled to specialized cognitive abilities. A small percentage of ASD patients carry mutations in genes encoding neuroligins, which are postsynaptic cell-adhesion molecules. We introduced one of these mutations into mice: the Arg451--&gt;Cys451 (R451C) substitution in neuroligin-3. R451C mutant mice showed impaired social interactions but enhanced spatial learning abilities. Unexpectedly, these behavioral changes were accompanied by an increase in inhibitory synaptic transmission with no apparent effect on excitatory synapses. Deletion of neuroligin-3, in contrast, did not cause such changes, indicating that the R451C substitution represents a gain-of-function mutation. These data suggest that increased inhibitory synaptic transmission may contribute to human ASDs and that the R451C knockin mice may be a useful model for studying autism-related behaviors.
