Set-shifting and maintenance are complex cognitive processes, which are often impaired in schizophrenia. The genetic basis of these processes is poorly understood. We aimed to investigate the association between genetic variants of the metabotropic glutamate receptor 3 (GRM3) and cognitive set-shifting in healthy individuals. The relationship between 14 selected single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) of the GRM3 gene and cognitive set-shifting as measured by perseverative errors using the modified card sorting test (MCST) was analysed in a sample of N = 98 young healthy individuals (mean age in years: 22.7 +/- 0.19). Results show that SNP rs17676277 is related to the performance on the MCST. Subjects with the TT genotype showed significantly less perseverative errors as compared with the AA (P = 0.025) and AT (P = 0.0005) and combined AA/AT genotypes (P = 0.0005). Haplotype analyses suggest the involvement of various SNPs of the GRM3 gene in perseverative error processing in a dominant model of inheritance. The findings strongly suggest that the genetic variation (rs17676277 and three haplotypes) in the metabotropic GRM3 is related to cognitive set-shifting in healthy individuals independent of working memory. However, because of a relatively small sample size for a genetic association study, the present results are tentative and require replication.
A critical issue in today's super-aging society is the need to reduce the burden of family care while continuing to make our medical institutions supportive. A rapidly emerging, major health concern is the debilitating effect of muscle weakness and atrophy from aging, termed sarcopenia; however, the molecular basis of this condition is not well understood. Our research aim is to elucidate the molecular mechanisms of age-related muscle atrophy and to devise new measures for preventing and treating this disability. A promising treatment for muscle atrophy is the promotion of muscle regeneration by recruiting stem cells into the targeted region. The first requirement is to understand how the motor system, which consists of muscles and motoneurons, is maintained to accomplish that goal. Recent studies in the field of neuroscience have focused on neuromuscular junctions (NMJ), which play important roles in the maintenance of both motor nerves and muscle fibers. Signaling between muscles and motoneurons at NMJ supports interactions within the motor system. To understand the mechanisms involved, we focus our research on the pathogenic processes underlying neuromuscular diseases. The well-known autoimmune disease, myasthenia gravis (MG), serves as a model not only for tracking the pathogenesis and treatment outcomes of all autoimmune diseases, but also for understanding synaptic functions in maintaining the motor system. Here, we describe recent insights into the molecular mechanisms required for the maintenance of NMJ and the related causes of muscle atrophy.
According to previously published ultrastructural studies, oligodendrocytes in white matter exhibit gap junctions with astrocytes, but not among each other, while in vitro oligodendrocytes form functional gap junctions. We have studied functional coupling among oligodendrocytes in acute slices of postnatal mouse corpus callosum. By whole-cell patch clamp we dialyzed oligodendrocytes with biocytin, a gap junction-permeable tracer. On average 61 cells were positive for biocytin detected by labeling with streptavidin-Cy3. About 77% of the coupled cells stained positively for the oligodendrocyte marker protein CNPase, 9% for the astrocyte marker GFAP and 14% were negative for both CNPase and GFAP. In the latter population, the majority expressed Olig2 and some NG2, markers for oligodendrocyte precursors. Oligodendrocytes are known to express Cx47, Cx32 and Cx29, astrocytes Cx43 and Cx30. In Cx47-deficient mice, the number of coupled cells was reduced by 80%. Deletion of Cx32 or Cx29 alone did not significantly reduce the number of coupled cells, but coupling was absent in Cx32/Cx47-double-deficient mice. Cx47-ablation completely abolished coupling of oligodendrocytes to astrocytes. In Cx43-deficient animals, oligodendrocyte-astrocyte coupling was still present, but coupling to oligodendrocyte precursors was not observed. In Cx43/Cx30-double deficient mice, oligodendrocyte-to-astrocyte coupling was almost absent. Uncoupled oligodendrocytes showed a higher input resistance. We conclude that oligodendrocytes in white matter form a functional syncytium predominantly among each other dependent on Cx47 and Cx32 expression, while astrocytic connexins expression can promote the size of this network.
The unravelling of the polarized distribution of AQP4 in perivascular astrocytic endfeet has revitalized the interest in the role of astrocytes in controlling water and ion exchange at the brain-blood interface. The importance of the endfeet is based on the premise that they constitute a complete coverage of the vessel wall. Despite a number of studies based on different microscopic techniques this question has yet to be resolved. We have made an electron microscopic 3D reconstruction of perivascular endfeet in CA1 (stratum moleculare) of rat hippocampus. The endfeet interdigitate and overlap, leaving no slits between them. Only in a few sites do processes--tentatively classified as processes of microglia--extend through the perivascular glial sheath to establish direct contact with the endothelial basal lamina. In contrast to the endfoot covering of the endothelial tube, the endfoot covering of the pericyte is incomplete, allowing neuropil elements to touch the basal lamina that enwraps this type of cell. The 3D reconstruction also revealed large bundles of mitochondria in the endfoot processes that came in close apposition to the perivascular endfoot membrane. Our data support the idea that in pathophysiological conditions, the perivascular astrocytic covering may control the exchange of water and solutes between blood and brain and that free diffusion is limited to narrow clefts between overlapping endfeet.
Neuromarketing has recently generated controversies concerning the involvement of medical professionals, and many key questions remain-ones that have potentially important implications for the field of psychiatry. Conflicting definitions of neuromarketing have been proposed, and little is known about the actual practices of companies, physicians, and scientists involved in its practice. This article reviews the history of neuromarketing and uses an exploratory survey of neuromarketing Web sites to illustrate ethical issues raised by this new field. Neuromarketing, as currently practiced, is heterogeneous, as companies are offering a variety of technologies. Many companies employ academicians and professionals, but few list their clients or fees. Media coverage of neuromarketing appears disproportionately high compared to the paucity of peer-reviewed reports in the field. Companies may be making premature claims about the power of neuroscience to predict consumer behavior. Overall, neuromarketing has important implications for academic-industrial partnerships, the responsible conduct of research, and the public understanding of the brain. We explore these themes to uncover issues relevant to professional ethics, research, and policy. Of particular relevance to psychiatry, neuromarketing may be seen as an extension of the search for quantification and certainty in previously indefinite aspects of human behavior.

Comments on the original article, &quot;Increased attention but more efficient disengagement: Neuroscientific evidence for defensive processing of threatening health information&quot; by L. T. E. Kessels, R. A. C. Ruiter, and B. M. Jansma (see record 2010-14873-005). Kessler et al present an example of Communication Neuroscience as a tool for understanding the mechanisms that lead some health messages to be processed in a way that facilitates impact whereas other messages are ignored. Kessels et al used event-related brain potentials (ERPs), a high temporal resolution method, to monitor neural activity in the moment that messages are presented. They use this technology to provide insight about the low-level attention processes through which individuals at highest risk (in this case, smokers) disengage from self-relevant health messages (threatening and nonthreatening smoking images). The findings of Kessels et al are convergent with prior theory and empirical work demonstrating that high threat messages may not achieve the desired effect if presented in isolation (Brown &amp; Locker, 2009; Leventhal, Safer, &amp; Panagis, 1983; Liberman &amp; Chaiken, 1992). By using the tools of neuroscience, however, Kessels et al elucidate a mechanism that was not apparent through self-report or implicit (reaction time) measures. They demonstrate that high threat messages lead to increased attention capture, but more efficient disengagement when threatening messages are self-relevant; this in turn helps to explain why high threat messages may not have the desired effect, despite successfully capturing people's attention. As such, this study illustrates one benefit of combining the tools of neuroscience with more familiar methods in health psychology.
This composite article is intended to give the experts in the field of cochlear mechanics an opportunity to voice their personal opinion on the one mechanism they believe dominates cochlear amplification in mammals. A collection of these ideas are presented here for the auditory community and others interested in the cochlear amplifier. Each expert has given their own personal view on the topic and at the end of their commentary they have suggested several experiments that would be required for the decisive mechanism underlying the cochlear amplifier. These experiments are presently lacking but if successfully performed would have an enormous impact on our understanding of the cochlear amplifier.
Adult neurogenesis continues throughout life in the mammalian hippocampus. The precise function of the adult generated neurons remains uncertain although there is growing evidence that they are involved in hippocampus-dependent learning and memory. Training rats on a hidden platform version of the Morris water task has been shown to increase or decrease the survival of newly produced cells in the dentate gyrus (DG) compared to training on a visible platform version. Here we investigated whether the difficulty of the task is related to the degree or direction of the change in neurogenesis. We trained rats on either a visible platform version of the Morris water task or one of three different hidden platform paradigms: four training trials per session version, two training trials per session, and reduced-cue (a version in which the majority of the distal cues were removed from the room). BrdU was administered 6 days prior to training and rats were perfused 24 h after the last training session. As expected, training on the four trial hidden platform version increased cell survival compared to training on the visible platform version. However, training on the more difficult reduced-cue hidden platform version resulted in a decrease in cell survival. Rats that received fewer trials per session did not differ in terms of cell survival in comparison to rats trained on the visible platform version. These findings demonstrate that altering the difficulty of the spatial task has an impact on the corresponding change in cell survival. The lack of obvious distal cues likely changed the strategy used by the rats to determine the location of the platform and resulted in a decrease, instead of an increase in cell survival in the hippocampus. In conclusion, different types of hippocampus-dependent learning can differentially impact cell survival.
One hypothesis of depression is that it is caused by reduced neuronal plasticity including hippocampal neurogenesis. In this study, we compared the effects of three long-term antidepressant treatments: escitalopram, voluntary running, and their combination on hippocampal cell proliferation, NPY and the NPY-Y1 receptor mRNAs, targets assumed to be important for hippocampal plasticity and mood disorders. An animal model of depression, the Flinders Sensitive Line (FSL) rat, was used and female rats were chosen because the majority of the depressed population is females. We investigated if these treatments were correlated to immobility, swimming, and climbing behaviors, which are associated with an overall, serotonergic-like and noradrenergic-like antidepressant response, in the Porsolt swim test (PST). Interestingly, while escitalopram, running and their combination increased the number of hippocampal BrdU immunoreactive cells, the antidepressant-like effect was only detected in the running group and the group with access both to running wheel and escitalopram. Hippocampal NPY mRNA and the NPY-Y1 receptor mRNA were elevated by running and the combined treatment. Moreover, correlations were detected between NPY mRNA levels and climbing and cell proliferation and NPY-Y1 receptor mRNA levels and swimming. Our results suggest that increased cell proliferation is not necessarily associated with an antidepressant effect. However, treatments that were associated with an antidepressant-like effect did regulate hippocampal levels of mRNAs encoding NPY and/or the NPY-Y1 receptor and support the notion that NPY can stimulate cell proliferation and induce an antidepressant-like response.
The social organization of rodent species determines behavioral patterns for both affiliative and agonistic encounters. The neuropeptide oxytocin has been implicated in the mediation of social behavior; however, variability in both neuropeptide expression and social behavior within a single species indicates an additional mediating factor. The purpose of the present comparative study was to investigate social behaviors in nave mixed-sex pairs of monogamous Peromyscus californicus and polygynous Peromyscus leucopus. We identified substantial inter- and intra-specific variability in the expression of affiliative and agonistic behaviors. Although all P. californicus tested engaged in frequent and prolonged intervals of social contact and rarely engaged in aggressive behaviors, P. leucopus exhibited significant variability in both measures of social behaviors. The naturally occurring differences in social behavior displayed by P. leucopus vary across the estrous cycle, and correspond to hypothalamic oxytocin, as well as circulating oxytocin and glucocorticoid concentrations. These results provide evidence for a rhythm in social behavior across the estrous cycle in polygynous, but not monogamous, Peromyscus species.
The present study examines the neural substrates for the perception of speech rhythm and intonation. Subjects listened passively to synthesized speech stimuli that contained no semantic and phonological information, in three conditions: (1) continuous speech stimuli with fixed syllable duration and fundamental frequency in the standard condition, (2) stimuli with varying vocalic durations of syllables in the speech rhythm condition, and (3) stimuli with varying fundamental frequency in the intonation condition. Compared to the standard condition, speech rhythm activated the right middle superior temporal gyrus (mSTG), whereas intonation activated the bilateral superior temporal gyrus and sulcus (STG/STS) and the right posterior STS. Conjunction analysis further revealed that rhythm and intonation activated a common area in the right mSTG but compared to speech rhythm, intonation elicited additional activations in the right anterior STS. Findings from the current study reveal that the right mSTG plays an important role in prosodic processing. Implications of our findings are discussed with respect to neurocognitive theories of auditory processing.
Recent modelling studies (Hadjipapas et al. [2009]: Neuroimage 44:1290-1303) have shown that it may be possible to distinguish between different neuronal populations on the basis of their macroscopically measured (EEG/MEG) mean field. We set out to test whether the different orientation columns contributing to a signal at a specific cortical location could be identified based on the measured MEG signal. We used 1.5deg square, static, obliquely oriented grating stimuli to generate sustained gamma oscillations in a focal region of primary visual cortex. We then used multivariate classifier methods to predict the orientation (left or right oblique) of the stimuli based purely on the time-series data from this one location. Both the single trial evoked response (0-300 ms) and induced post-transient power spectra (300-2,300 ms, 20-70 Hz band) due to the different stimuli were classifiable significantly above chance in 11/12 and 10/12 datasets respectively. Interestingly, stimulus-specific information is preserved in the sustained part of the gamma oscillation, long after perception has occurred and all neuronal transients have decayed. Importantly, the classification of this induced oscillation was still possible even when the power spectra were rank-transformed showing that the different underlying networks give rise to different characteristic temporal signatures.
Mutations in the gene encoding for the neurofilament light subunit (NF-L) are responsible for Charcot-Marie-Tooth (CMT) neuropathy type 2E. To address whether CMT2E disease is potentially reversible, we generated a mouse model with conditional doxycycline-responsive gene system that allows repression of mutant hNF-LP22S transgene expression in adult neurons. The hNF-LP22S;tTa transgenic (tg) mice recapitulated key features of CMT2E disease, including aberrant hindlimb posture, motor deficits, hypertrophy of muscle fibres and loss of muscle innervation without neuronal loss. Remarkably, a 3-month treatment of hNF-LP22S;tTa mice with doxycycline after onset of disease efficiently down-regulated expression of hNF-LP22S and it caused reversal of CMT neurological phenotypes with restoration of muscle innervation and of neurofilament protein distribution along the sciatic nerve. These data suggest that therapeutic approaches aimed at abolishing expression or neutralizing hNF-L mutants might not only halt the progress of CMT2E disease, but also revert the disabilities.
The main histological abnormality in congenital fiber type disproportion (CFTD) is hypotrophy of type 1 (slow twitch) fibers compared to type 2 (fast twitch) fibers. To investigate whether mutations in RYR1 are a cause of CFTD we sequenced RYR1 in seven CFTD families in whom the other known causes of CFTD had been excluded. We identified compound heterozygous changes in the RYR1 gene in four families (five patients), consistent with autosomal recessive inheritance. Three out of five patients had ophthalmoplegia, which may be the most specific clinical indication of mutations in RYR1. Type 1 fibers were at least 50% smaller, on average, than type 2 fibers in all biopsies. Recessive mutations in RYR1 are a relatively common cause of CFTD and can be associated with extreme fiber size disproportion.
Although the oculomotor plant is usually modeled as a linear system, recent studies of ocular motoneuron behavior have drawn attention to the presence of significant nonlinearities. One source of these is the development of muscle force in response to changes in motoneuron firing rate. Here, we attempt to simulate the production of isometric force by the primate lateral rectus muscle in response to electrical stimulation [A. Fuchs and E. Luschei, &quot;Development of isometric tension in simian extraocular muscle,&quot; J. Physiol., vol. 219, no. 1, pp. 155-166, 1971] by comparing four different modeling approaches. The data could be well fitted either by parameter estimation for physically based models of force production [J. Bobet, E. R. Gossen, and R. B. Stein, &quot;A comparison of models of force production during stimulated isometric ankle dorsiflexion in humans,&quot; IEEE Trans. Neural Syst. Rehabil. Eng., vol. 13, no. 4, pp. 444-451, Dec. 2005; E. Mavritsaki, N. Lepora, J. Porrill, C. H. Yeo, and P. Dean, &quot;Response linearity determined by recruitment strategy in detailed model of nictitating membrane control,&quot; Biol. Cybern., vol. 96, no. 1, pp. 39-57, 2007], or by the application of a generic method for nonlinear system identification (the nonlinear autoregressive with exogenous input (NARX) model). These results suggest that nonlinear system identification may be a useful method for modeling more general aspects of muscle function, and provide a basis for distributed models of motor units in extraocular muscle for understanding dynamic oculomotor control. The success of previous linear models points to the potential importance of motor unit recruitment in overcoming nonlinearities in the oculomotor plant.
Intracortical microelectrode array recordings generate a variety of neural signals with potential application as control signals in neural interface systems. Previous studies have focused on single and multiunit activity (MUA), as well as low-frequency local field potentials (LFPs), but have not explored higher frequency (&gt;200 Hz) LFPs. In addition, the potential to decode 3-D reach and grasp kinematics based on LFPs has not been demonstrated. Here, we use mutual information and decoding analyses to probe the information content about 3-D reaching and grasping of seven different LFP frequency bands in the range of 0.3-400 Hz. LFPs were recorded via 96-microelectrode arrays in primary motor cortex (M1) of two monkeys performing free reaching to grasp moving objects. Mutual information analyses revealed that higher frequency bands (e.g., 100-200 and 200-400 Hz) carried the most information about the examined kinematics. Furthermore, Kalman filter decoding revealed that broad-band high frequency LFPs, likely reflecting MUA, provided the best decoding performance as well as substantial accuracy in reconstructing reach kinematics, grasp aperture, and aperture velocity. These results indicate that LFPs, especially high frequency bands, could be useful signals for neural interfaces controlling 3-D reach and grasp kinematics.



In this report, we describe a patient in whom we used a functional residual capacity (FRC) tool available on a critical care ventilator to identify the loss of lung volume associated with pulmonary complications and increase in FRC with the application of a recruitment maneuver. The case report underlines the utility of the FRC tool in rapid visualization of the lung volume changes and the effects of application of corrective strategies in patients receiving mechanical ventilation.




Obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD) is associated with deficits in inhibition mechanisms. This is reflected in reports showing impaired sensorimotor and sensory gating in OCD patients, as measured with prepulse inhibition (PPI) of the startle reflex and P50 suppression paradigms. However, most of the patients in these studies used medication and the results were not controlled for menstrual cycle phase in women. In this study PPI and P50 suppression were tested in 25 medication-free OCD patients and 25 healthy controls, using auditory stimuli and controlling for menstrual cycle effects. Subgroups were established, based on clinical variables (e.g. 'washers' and 'checkers'). No impairments in PPI or P50 suppression were found in the OCD group when compared with healthy controls. However, a subgroup of OCD patients ('checkers', n=12) showed increased P50 suppression. It was concluded that sensorimotor and sensory gating is not impaired in drug-free OCD patients, taking into account the menstrual cycle effects in women. These results do not support hypotheses linking deficits in these inhibition paradigms and the pathogenesis of OCD. The finding of an increased P50 suppression in the subgroup of 'checkers' deserves further investigation and underlines the value of studying subgroups of OCD.
The purpose of this brief report is to identify imagery preferences of women receiving hypnotherapy to alleviate hot flashes. As part of a larger study, 51 breast cancer survivors were asked to identify their own personal preferences for imagery for reducing hot flashes. Most of the participants identified personal imagery associated with coolness; none of the participants selected imagery for warmth or heat. The most widely used was imagery involving water associated with coolness (27.0%). It is recommended that clinicians using hypnosis for reduction of hot flashes attend to patients' preferences as specific imagery may moderate the effectiveness of hypnosis for hot flashes.
Pharmacological functional magnetic resonance imaging (phMRI) is a valuable tool for the investigation of pharmacological effects of a drug on pain processing. We hypothesized that the ibuprofen-arginine combination, in line with its characteristic analgesic properties, may influence the phMRI response at the central level, as compared to placebo. Ten healthy subjects underwent a double-blind, placebo-controlled, randomized, cross-over phFMRI study with somatosensory painful stimulation of the right median nerve. We measured the blood oxygen level dependent (BOLD) signal variations induced in conditions of pain after oral administration of either ibuprofen-arginine or placebo formulations. Independent component analysis (ICA) was used for the analysis of the fMRI data, without assuming a specific hemodynamic response function (HRF), which may be altered by drug administration. Median nerve electrical painful stimulation mainly activated the primary contralateral and the secondary somatosensory cortices, the insula, the supplementary motor area, and the middle frontal gyrus. Placebo and ibuprofen-arginine administration induced activation bilaterally in the premotor cortex, and an overall reduction in the other pain-related areas, which was more prominent in the left hemisphere. A task-related increase of BOLD signal between drug and placebo was observed bilaterally in the primary somatosensory area and the middle frontal gyrus without any changes in subjective pain scores. Overall, our findings show that ibuprofen-arginine, in line with the characteristic analgesic properties of ibuprofen, influences the BOLD response in specific pain-related brain areas with respect to placebo, with a vasoactive effect possibly due to arginine.



Two novel 3-amino-5-(4-choloro-2-phenoxyphenyl)-4H-1,2,4-triazole derivatives were prepared and their anticonvulsant activity was measured by evaluation of the ability of these compounds to protect mice against convulsion induced by lethal doses of pentylenetetrazole (PTZ). Diazepam (Sigma) was considered as a positive control drug with anticonvulsant effect [ED50 = 1.2 (0.5-1.9) mg/Kg]. Amongst the compounds tested, compound 3, 3-amino-5- [4-chloro-2-(2-flurophenoxy)phenyl]-4H-1,2,4-triazole, showed potent anticonvulsant activity [ED50 = 1.4 (1.0-2.2) mg/Kg] compared to diazepam.
DPOAE (2f(1)-f(2)) phase was measured across a 3-octave frequency range from two groups of newborns using ER10B+ and ER10C probe microphones. A marked phase shift was noted in the mid-to-high frequency range for newborn data recorded with the ER10C only. In contrast, the ER10B+ produced phase that was approximately invariant as a function of frequency for most of the range. Probe-related phase shifts can be effectively eliminated by correcting for variations in the phases of the primary tones. Results highlight the importance of detecting and correcting for system-related phase shifts so they are not misinterpreted as cochlear in origin.
A numerical thought experiment was conducted to assess whether stimulus-specific, short-term changes in auditory neural responsiveness could explain the formation of auditory objects underlying the auditory continuity illusion. A tonotopic, two-layer feedforward network model with one time constant for synaptic weight augmentation based on firing rate, and an independent time constant for synaptic weight decay was presented with classical continuity illusion stimuli. The results suggest that the continuity illusion could, in principle, be explained by basic, duration-dependent auditory circuit behavior, which could emerge at either early or later stages of processing.
As previously suggested, attention may increase segregation via enhancement and suppression sensory mechanisms. To test this hypothesis, we proposed an interleaved melody paradigm with two rhythm conditions applied to familiar target melodies and unfamiliar distractor melodies sharing pitch and timbre properties. When rhythms of both target and distractor were irregular, target melodies were identified above chance level. A sensory enhancement mechanism guided by listeners' knowledge may have helped to extract targets from the interleaved sequence. When the distractor was rhythmically regular, performance was increased, suggesting that the distractor may have been suppressed by a sensory suppression mechanism.
Adolescents continue to be at high risk for HIV infection, with young men who have sex with men and youth with drug abuse and/or mental health problems at particularly high risk. Multiple factors may interact to confer risk for these youth. Engaging vulnerable youth in HIV prevention research can present unique challenges in the areas of enrollment, retention, and trial adherence. Examples of successful engagement with vulnerable youth offer encouraging evidence for the feasibility of including these youth in clinical trials. Ethical challenges must be taken into consideration before embarking on biomedical HIV prevention studies with vulnerable youth, especially in the global context. Given the many individual and contextual factors that contribute to their high-risk status, it is essential that vulnerable youth populations be included in HIV prevention clinical research studies.
The aim of this study was to investigate temperament, hopelessness (a measure of suicide risk), and health perception in heroin addicts. The study involved the administration of the TEMPS-A Rome, the Beck Hopelessness Scale (BHS), the MINI Neuropsychiatric Interview, and the Multidimensional Health Questionnaire. Participants were 100 heroin addicts who were matched by age and sex with 100 randomly selected non-users. Heroin addicts obtained higher scores on TEMPS-A Dys/Cyc/Anx temperament and on the irritable temperament. In the heroin addicts, anxiety, depression, preoccupation with health, health illness self-blame, health monitoring, and negative thinking about health were positively associated with hopelessness, dysthymic/anxious/cyclothymic temperament, and irritable temperament. Motivation to avoid unhealthiness, health assertiveness, health expectation optimism, and health satisfaction were negatively associated with hopelessness, dysthymic/anxious/cyclothymic temperament, and irritable temperament. More knowledge on health attitudes in heroin addicts may help in delivering a treatment plan for this selective population.

This article explores the insight of the analyst and the concept of unconscious freedom. By insight, the author is referring to those sudden bursts of realization, the &quot;aha&quot; phenomena. Arising from the unconscious of the analyst, these emotional insights can help break an impasse or curtail an enactment. Unconscious freedom is the analyst's ability to function in the implicit or unconscious relational realm with empathy and sensitivity while relatively free of anxiety. This freedom facilitates the emotional &quot;aha.&quot; Clinical examples are given. Recent research in neuroscience illuminates these processes, prominently the role of the right hemisphere. Although we are in the early stages of the integration of neuroscience findings and the actual practice of psychoanalytic psychotherapy, this article offers provisional commentary. The author posits that by understanding the neuropsychological aspects of insight and unconscious freedom, analysts will be better able to facilitate this process in themselves.

The aim of this study was to investigate if, and via what mechanisms, resistance training of the plantar flexor muscles affects voluntary activation during maximal voluntary eccentric and concentric muscle actions. Twenty healthy subjects were randomized into a resistance training group (n = 9) or a passive control group (n = 11). Training consisted of 15 sessions of unilateral mainly eccentric plantar flexor exercise over a 5-wk period. During pre- and posttraining testing, dynamic plantar flexor strength was measured and voluntary activation was calculated using the twitch interpolation technique. The soleus Hoffman reflex (H-reflex) was used to assess motoneurone excitability and presynaptic inhibition of Ia afferents, whereas the soleus V-wave was used to test for changes in both presynaptic inhibition of Ia afferents and supraspinal inputs to the motoneurone pool. H-reflexes, V-waves, supramaximal M-waves, and twitches were evoked as the foot was moved at 5 degrees /s through an angle of 90 degrees during passive ankle rotations (passive H-reflexes and M-waves) and during maximal voluntary concentric and eccentric plantar flexions [maximal voluntary contraction (MVC) H-reflexes, M-waves, and V-waves]. Training induced significant improvements in plantar flexor strength and voluntary activation during both concentric and eccentric maximal voluntary actions. Soleus passive and MVC H-to-M ratios remained unchanged after training, whereas the soleus V-to-M ratio was increased during both concentric and eccentric contractions after training. No changes were found in the control group for any of the parameters. The enhanced voluntary strength could be attributed partly to an increase in voluntary activation induced by eccentric training. Since the passive and MVC H-to-M ratios remained unchanged, the increase in activation is probably not due to decreased presynaptic inhibition. The increased V-to-M ratio for both action types indicates that increased voluntary drive from supraspinal centers and/or modulation in afferents other than Ia afferents may have contributed to such an increase in voluntary activation.
The main objective of this study was to examine the factor structure of restricted repetitive behaviours (RRBs) in a sample of 205 Greek individuals with Autism Spectrum Disorder (ASD), using the Repetitive Behavior Scale-Revised (RBS-R). Results show that the structure of RRBs in this Greek sample can be described using a 2-factor solution. The current study provides further, cross-cultural support for the distinction between a &quot;high-order&quot; factor reflecting compulsions, rituals, sameness, and restricted behaviours (CRSRB) and a &quot;low-order&quot; factor reflecting stereotyped movements and self-injurious behaviours (SSIB). These factors are most likely located at the top of the RRB structural hierarchy and represent general, independent constructs of ASD behaviours that can be identified not only across studies but also across cultures.
This study evaluated Children's Friendship Training (CFT), a manualized parent-assisted intervention to improve social skills among second to fifth grade children with autism spectrum disorders. Comparison was made with a delayed treatment control group (DTC). Targeted skills included conversational skills, peer entry skills, developing friendship networks, good sportsmanship, good host behavior during play dates, and handling teasing. At post-testing, the CFT group was superior to the DTC group on parent measures of social skill and play date behavior, and child measures of popularity and loneliness, At 3-month follow-up, parent measures showed significant improvement from baseline. Post-hoc analysis indicated more than 87% of children receiving CFT showed reliable change on at least one measure at post-test and 66.7% after 3 months follow-up.
Functional connectivity has become one of the important approaches to understanding the functional organization of the human brain. Recently, functional near-infrared spectroscopy (fNIRS) was demonstrated as a feasible method to study resting-state functional connectivity (RSFC) in the sensory and motor systems. However, whether such fNIRS-based RSFC can be revealed in high-level and complex functional systems remains unknown. In the present study, the feasibility of such an approach is tested on the language system, of which the neural substrates have been well documented in the literature. After determination of a seed channel by a language localizer task, the correlation strength between the low frequency fluctuations of the fNIRS signal at the seed channel and those at all other channels is used to evaluate the language system RSFC. Our results show a significant RSFC between the left inferior frontal cortex and superior temporal cortex, components both associated with dominant language regions. Moreover, the RSFC map demonstrates left lateralization of the language system. In conclusion, the present study successfully utilized fNIRS-based RSFC to study a complex and high-level neural system, and provides further evidence for the validity of the fNIRS-based RSFC approach.
Human perception of 2.0-microm infrared laser irradiation has become significant in such disparate fields as law enforcement, neuroscience, and pain research. Several recent studies have found damage thresholds for single-pulse and continuous wave irradiations at this wavelength. However, the only publication using multiple-pulse irradiations was investigating the cornea rather than skin. Literature has claimed that the 2.0-microm light characteristic thermal diffusion time was as long as 300-ms. Irradiating the skin with 2.0-microm lasers to produce sensation should follow published recommendations to use pulses on the order of 10 to 100 ms, which approach the theoretical thermal diffusion time. Therefore, investigation of the heating of skin for a variety of laser pulse combinations was undertaken. Temperatures of ex vivo pig skin were measured at the surface and at three depths from pulse sequences of six different duty factors. Differences were found in temperature rise per unit exposure that did not follow a linear relation to duty factor. The differences can be explained by significant heat conduction during the pulses. Therefore, the common heat modeling assumption of thermal confinement during a pulse may need to be experimentally verified if the pulse approaches the theoretical thermal confinement time.
Excitotoxicity has been implicated as the mechanism of neuronal damage resulting from acute insults such as stroke, epilepsy, and trauma, as well as during the progression of adult-onset neurodegenerative disorders such as Alzheimer's disease and amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS). Excitotoxicity is defined as excessive exposure to the neurotransmitter glutamate or overstimulation of its membrane receptors, leading to neuronal injury or death. One potential approach to protect against excitotoxic neuronal damage is enhanced glutamate reuptake. The glial glutamate transporter EAAT2 is the quantitatively dominant glutamate transporter and plays a major role in clearance of glutamate. Expression of EAAT2 protein is highly regulated at the translational level. In an effort to identify compounds that can induce translation of EAAT2 transcripts, a cell-based enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay was developed using a primary astrocyte line stably transfected with a vector designed to identify modulators of EAAT2 translation. This assay was optimized for high-throughput screening, and a library of approximately 140,000 compounds was tested. In the initial screen, 293 compounds were identified as hits. These 293 hits were retested at 3 concentrations, and a total of 61 compounds showed a dose-dependent increase in EAAT2 protein levels. Selected compounds were tested in full 12-point dose-response experiments in the screening assay to assess potency as well as confirmed by Western blot, immunohistochemistry, and glutamate uptake assays to evaluate the localization and function of the elevated EAAT2 protein. These hits provide excellent starting points for developing therapeutic agents to prevent excitotoxicity.
The aim of this study was to explore burn-injured individuals' perception of factors seen as facilitators or barriers in the process of returning to work after a severe burn injury. Semistructured interviews were prospectively conducted with 39 former burn injury patients, admitted to the Uppsala Burn Center between March 2000 and March 2007. The participants were employed or studying at the time of injury and were interviewed on average 4.6 years after the burn. The interview data were analyzed with qualitative content analysis. Factors acknowledged by the participants as facilitators and barriers to return to work (RTW) were identified and sorted into five categories: the Individual, Social Life, Health Care and Rehabilitation, the Workplace, and Social Welfare Agencies. Facilitators were perceived to a great extent as individual characteristics, such as own ability to take action, setting up goals in rehabilitation, having willpower, being persistent, and learning to live with impairments. The possibility of getting modified work tasks or a change of workplace, when having physical or psychological impairments, was also seen as facilitating factors. Some barriers experienced as delaying RTW were difficulties when ceasing pain medication, limited knowledge of wound care at primary health care facilities, lack of individualized rehabilitation plans, and lack of psychological support during rehabilitation. Former burn injury patients emphasized psychological resources and capabilities as facilitators in the RTW process. The need in rehabilitation for a coordinator and for assessment of work capacity, and not solely a focus on impairments, is discussed.
HIV-1-infected opiate abusers often exhibit an accelerated form of HIV-1-associated dementia and enhanced neurological dysfunction. Productive HIV-1 infection of microglia and perivascular macrophages and the resultant secretion of neurotoxic molecules by these cells contribute to this phenomenon. In order to understand the role of morphine in this process, we performed a genome-wide association study at the micro RNA (miRNA) and protein levels in human monocyte-derived macrophages (h-mdms). A total of 26 differentially expressed miRNA were identified (P &lt; 0.01), of which hsa-miR-15b and hsa-miR-181b had the greatest increase and decrease in expression levels, respectively. Computational analysis predicted fibroblast growth factor-2 (FGF-2) as the strongest target gene for hsa-miR15b. Of note, we observed a decrease in FGF-2 protein expression in response to morphine. Both hsa-miR-15b and hsa-miR-181b have several predicted gene targets involved in inflammation and T-cell activation pathways. In this context, we observed induction of MCP-2 and IL-6 by morphine. Moreover, proteomic analysis revealed the induction of mitochondrial superoxide dismutase in response to morphine treatment. HIV-1 infection did not induce mitochondrial superoxide dismutase. Collectively, these observations demonstrate that morphine induces inflammation and oxidative stress in h-mdms thereby contributing to expansion of HIV-1 CNS reservoir expansion and disease progression. Of note, differentially expressed miRNAs (hsa-miR-15b and 181-b) may have a potential role in regulating these processes.
Autism spectrum disorders have been reported as being much more frequent in individuals with tuberous sclerosis than in the general population. Previous studies have implicated early seizure onset and the localization of cortical tubers in the temporal lobes as risk factors for autism. However, the underlying reasons for this association remain largely unclear. The dysregulation of intracellular signaling through the activation of mTOR pathway could play a direct role in determining susceptibility to autism. Early control of seizures and an early intensive behavioral intervention of autism during the period of brain plasticity can mitigate, but not reverse the final outcome. A greater understanding of the pathogenetic mechanisms underlying autism in tuberous sclerosis could help in devising targeted and potentially more effective treatment strategies.

Human cytomegalovirus (HCMV), a widespread beta-herpes virus, infects a high percentage of high grade gliomas. Although HCMV is not recognized as an oncogenic virus, it might increase the malignancy of the infected cell by disrupting cellular pathways involved in the cell cycle, apoptosis, angiogenesis, cell invasion and the host immune response. This article reviews the recent evidence of the modulatory effects of HCMV infection leading to the malignant progression of gliomas and explores novel therapeutic targets against such lethal tumors.

A common complaint of normal aging is the increase in word-finding failures such as tip-of-the-tongue states (TOTs). Behavioral research identifies TOTs as phonological retrieval failures, and recent findings [Shafto, M. A., Burke, D. M., Stamatakis, E. A., Tam, P., &amp; Tyler, L. K. On the tip-of-the-tongue: Neural correlates of increased word-finding failures in normal aging. Journal of Cognitive Neuroscience, 19, 2060-2070, 2007] link age-related increases in TOTs to atrophy in left insula, a region implicated in phonological production. Here, younger and older adults performed a picture naming task in the fMRI scanner. During successful naming, left insula activity was not affected by age or gray matter integrity. Age differences only emerged during TOTs, with younger but not older adults generating a &quot;boost&quot; of activity during TOTs compared to successful naming. Older adults also had less activity than younger adults during TOTs compared to &quot;don't know&quot; responses, and across all participants, less TOT activity was affiliated with lower gray matter density. For older adults, lower levels of activity during TOTs accompanied higher TOT rates, supporting the role of an age-related neural mechanism impacting older more than younger adults. Results support a neural account of word retrieval in old age wherein, despite widespread age-related atrophy, word production processes are not universally impacted by age. However, atrophy undermines older adults' ability to modulate neural responses needed to overcome retrieval failures.



The cellular distribution of SPP1, which we recently identified as a gene with greater expression in the macaque primary motor cortex than in the premotor or prefrontal cortices, was examined in rhesus macaque, common marmoset, and rat brains. In situ hybridization histochemistry revealed that SPP1 mRNA was expressed specifically in pyramidal neurons in layer V of the sensorimotor cortex of the rhesus macaque. These SPP1 mRNA-positive neurons were most abundant in the primary motor area, followed by Brodmann area 5 and the supplementary motor area, in accordance with the distribution of corticospinal neurons. In addition, injection of a retrograde neuroanatomical tracer into the lateral corticospinal tract (CST) of the spinal cord caused labeling of SPP1 positive neurons, indicating the expression of SPP1 in corticospinal neurons. SPP1 was also expressed in the thalamus, brainstem, and spinal ventral horn of the rhesus macaque. Although SPP1 was also detected in the brainstem and spinal cord of the marmoset and the rat, it was not detected in their cerebral cortices. Selective expression in the corticospinal neurons of the sensorimotor cortex of the rhesus macaque suggests that SPP1 plays a critical role in the functional or structural specialization of highly developed corticospinal systems in certain primate species.
Cerebellin1 (Cbln1) is a secreted glycoprotein that was originally isolated from the cerebellum and subsequently found to regulate synaptic development and stability. Cbln1 has a heterogeneous distribution in brain, but the only site in which it has been shown to have central effects is the cerebellar cortex, where loss of Cbln1 causes a reduction in granule cell-Purkinje cell synapses. Neurons of the thalamic parafascicular nucleus (PF), which provide glutamatergic projections to the striatum, also express high levels of Cbln1. We first examined Cbln1 in thalamostriatal neurons and then determined if cbln1 knockout mice exhibit structural deficits in striatal neurons. Virtually all PF neurons express Cbln1-immunoreactivity (-ir). In contrast, only rare Cbln1-ir neurons are present in the central medial complex, the other thalamic region that projects heavily to the dorsal striatum. In the striatum Cbln1-ir processes are apposed to medium spiny neuron (MSN) dendrites; ultrastructural studies revealed that Cbln1-ir axon terminals form axodendritic synapses with MSNs. Tract-tracing studies found that all PF cells retrogradely labeled from the striatum express Cbln1-ir. We then examined the dendritic structure of Golgi-impregnated MSNs in adult cbln1 knockout mice. MSN dendritic spine density was markedly increased in cbln1(-/-) mice relative to wildtype littermates, but total dendritic length was unchanged. Ultrastructural examination revealed an increase in the density of MSN axospinous synapses in cbln1(-/-) mice, with no change in postsynaptic density length. Thus, Cbln1 determines the dendritic structure of striatal MSNs, with effects distinct from those seen in the cerebellum.
Melanopsin is the photopigment of intrinsically photosensitive retinal ganglion cells (ipRGCs). Melanopsin immunoreactivity reveals two dendritic plexuses within the inner plexiform layer (IPL) and morphologically heterogeneous retinal ganglion cells. Using enhanced immunohistochemistry, we provide a fuller description of murine cell types expressing melanopsin, their contribution to the plexuses of melanopsin dendrites, and mosaics formed by each type. M1 cells, corresponding to the originally described ganglion-cell photoreceptors, occupy the ganglion cell or inner nuclear layers. Their large, sparsely branched arbors (mean diameter 275 microm) monostratify at the outer limit of the OFF sublayer. M2 cells also have large, monostratified dendritic arbors (mean diameter 310 microm), but ramify in the inner third of the IPL, within the ON sublayer. There are approximately 900 M1 cells and 800 M2 cells per retina; each type comprises roughly 1-2% of all ganglion cells. The cell bodies of M1 cells are slightly smaller than those of M2 cells (mean diameters: 13 microm for M1, 15 microm for M2). Dendritic field overlap is extensive within each type (coverage factors approximately 3.8 for M1 and 4.6 for M2 cells). Rare bistratified cells deploy terminal dendrites within both melanopsin-immunoreactive plexuses. Because these are too sparsely distributed to permit complete retinal tiling, they lack a key feature of true ganglion cell types and may be anomalous hybrids of the M1 and M2 types. Finally, we observed weak melanopsin immunoreactivity in other ganglion cells, mostly with large somata, that may constitute one or more additional types of melanopsin-expressing cells.
The authors reviewed the medical records of patients who had undergone endoscopic management of sphenoid sinus (SS) cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) leaks in our department between 2005 and 2007. Eight patients were included in this study: 4 males and 4 females. CSF fistulae were due to trauma, surgery, and some were idiopathic. In all the patients, a multilayer skull base closure was performed. No SS obliteration was carried out. One patient required revision surgery for persistent CSF leak. Multilayer skull base closure is confirmed as the preferred option in sphenoid CSF leaks. The limited morbidity and high success rate fit well with the data in the literature and make this treatment option advisable.


Cockroaches were observed with videographic methods as escape running was initiated, but with obstacles in the path of their run. The goal was to determine the repertoire of possible responses to obstacles and the sensory cues used to trigger the responses. Intact cockroaches collided with obstacles on only about 10% of trials. The most common collision avoidance strategy was simply to stop running prior to impact. However, occasionally animals moved vertically and climbed over the barrier, or turned and navigated an edge of the obstacle, or completely reversed run direction. The avoidance strategies chosen depended on the size and configuration of the obstacle. Tests for the use of vision in detecting obstacles showed that its role, if any, is small. However, all manipulations that altered the antennal system changed behavior in a way consistent with the hypothesis that antennal mechanosensation plays a major role in collision avoidance. For example, reducing antennal length, or severing the main antennal nerve without altering the length produced significant increases in the frequency of collisions. Tests with tethered insects showed that (1) the antennae are preferentially directed forward as animals run, and (2) nearly simultaneous contact with both antennae is required to make the cockroach stop. Our data indicate that running cockroaches employ strategies that set their sensorimotor systems in a mode of readiness to deal with obstacles and they suggest that sensory information about the presence and configuration of obstacles is used to make choices, at very short latencies, about how to respond to obstructions.
Extraction of numerosity (i.e., enumeration) is an essential component of mathematical abilities. The current study asked how automatic is the processing of numerosity and whether automatic activation is task dependent. Participants were presented with displays containing a variable number of digits and were asked to pay attention to the number of digits or to their numerical value, in separate blocks. Effects of task were tested with a comparative judgment task and a parity judgment task. In the comparative judgment task, participants had to indicate whether the numerosity or the numerical value of the digits was smaller or larger than 5. In the parity judgment task, participants had to indicate whether this value was odd or even. Irrelevant numerical values modulated performance regardless of task. In contrast, irrelevant numerosities modulated performance only in the comparative judgment task. These results suggest that numerical value is activated automatically, whereas activation of numerosity is modulated by task. We suggest that the differences observed are related to different cognitive and neural mechanisms recruited by these tasks.
Dynamic adjustments in cognitive control are well documented in conflict tasks, wherein competition from irrelevant stimulus attributes intensifies selection demands and leads to subsequent performance benefits. The current study investigated whether mnemonic demands, in a working memory (WM) task, can drive similar online control modifications. Demand levels (high vs. low) of WM maintenance (memory load of 2 items vs. 1 item) and delay-spanning distractor interference (confusable vs. not confusable with memoranda) were manipulated using a factorial design during a WM delayed-recognition task. Performance was best subsequent to trials in which both maintenance and distractor interference demands were high, followed by trials with high demand in either of these 2 control domains, and worst following trials with low demand in both domains. These results suggest that dynamic adjustments in cognitive control are not triggered exclusively by conflict-specific contexts but are also triggered by WM demands, revealing a putative mechanism by which this system configures itself for successful task performance.
Research has shown that processing information in a survival context can enhance the information's memorability. The current study examined whether survival processing can also decrease the susceptibility to false memories and whether the survival advantage can be found in children. In Experiment 1, adults rated semantically related words in a survival, moving, or pleasantness scenario. Even though the survival advantage was demonstrated for true recall, there also was an unexpected increase in false memories in the survival condition. Similarly, younger and older children in Experiment 2 displayed superior true recall but also higher rates of false memories in a survival condition. Experiment 3 showed that in adults false memories were also more likely to occur in the survival condition when categorized lists instead of Deese-Roediger-McDermott (DRM)-like word lists were used. In all three experiments, no survival recall advantage was found when net accuracy scores that take the total output into account were used. These findings question whether survival processing is an adaptive memory strategy per se, as such processing not only enriches true recall but simultaneously amplifies the vulnerability to false memories.
Backward inhibition (BI) is a performance cost that occurs when an individual returns to a task after 1 (vs. more than 1) intervening trial, and it may reflect the inhibition of task-set components during switching. In 3 experiments, we support the theory that inhibition can target cue-based preparatory stages of a task. Participants performed a cued target-localization task that had been previously shown to produce BI. In Experiment 1, reassignment of arbitrary cue-target pairings midway through the experiment doubled the size of BI, though cue, target, and response sets remained unchanged. In Experiment 2, we controlled for effects of order of conditions or simple change of cue meaning. In Experiment 3, we demonstrated that the effect depends on re-pairing members of the same cue and target sets. The results are attributed to heightened conflict (and hence greater inhibition) during cue-target translation when a previously learned cue-target mapping is remapped.
Mutations in GJB2, which encodes Cx26, are one of the most common causes of inherited deafness in humans. More than 100 mutations have been identified scattered throughout the Cx26 protein, most of which cause nonsyndromic sensorineural deafness. In a subset of mutations, deafness is accompanied by hyperkeratotic skin disorders, which are typically severe and sometimes fatal. Many of these syndromic deafness mutations localize to the amino-terminal and first extracellular loop (E1) domains. Here, we examined two such mutations, A40V and G45E, which are positioned near the TM1/E1 boundary and are associated with keratitis ichthyosis deafness (KID) syndrome. Both of these mutants have been reported to form hemichannels that open aberrantly, leading to &quot;leaky&quot; cell membranes. Here, we quantified the Ca(2+) sensitivities and examined the biophysical properties of these mutants at macroscopic and single-channel levels. We find that A40V hemichannels show significantly impaired regulation by extracellular Ca(2+), increasing the likelihood of aberrant hemichannel opening as previously suggested. However, G45E hemichannels show only modest impairment in regulation by Ca(2+) and instead exhibit a substantial increase in permeability to Ca(2+). Using cysteine substitution and examination of accessibility to thiol-modifying reagents, we demonstrate that G45, but not A40, is a pore-lining residue. Both mutants function as cell-cell channels. The data suggest that G45E and A40V are hemichannel gain-of-function mutants that produce similar phenotypes, but by different underlying mechanisms. A40V produces leaky hemichannels, whereas G45E provides a route for excessive entry of Ca(2+). These aberrant properties, alone or in combination, can severely compromise cell integrity and lead to increased cell death.
Body image was compared in younger versus older women using questionnaires and women's responses to fatter and thinner images of their own bodies versus responses to line drawings of bodies in the Figure Ratings Scale. We found that younger and older women have similar body dissatisfaction but that younger women have a higher drive for thinness and experience more societal influence on their body image. Using images of one's own body versus line drawings did not result in different body dissatisfaction in younger versus older women. These data suggest that age affects some facets of body image but not others and that ratings of body image do not differ in normal, healthy younger and older women when personalized measures are used.
In this article, marking the 65th anniversary of the Journal of Gerontology, we offer a broad-brush overview of the new synthesis between neuroscientific and psychological approaches to cognitive aging. We provide a selective review of brain imaging studies and their relevance to mechanisms of cognitive aging first identified primarily from behavioral measurements. We also examine some new key discoveries, including evidence favoring plasticity and compensation that have emerged specifically from using cognitive neuroscience methods to study healthy aging. We then summarize several recent neurocognitive theories of aging, including our own model-the Scaffolding Theory of Aging and Cognition. We close by discussing some newly emerging trends and future research trajectories for investigating the aging mind and brain.

This paper considers recent developments in health care facility design and in the psychology literature that support a case for increased design sensitivity to the emotional experience of patient care. The author discusses several examples of innovative patient-centred health care design interventions. These generally resulted in improvements in the patient and staff experience of care, at less cost than major infrastructural interventions. The paper relates these developments in practice with recent neuroscience research, illustrating that the design of the built environment influences patient emotional stress. In turn, patient emotional stress appears to influence patient satisfaction, and in some instances, patient outcomes. This paper highlights the need for further research in this area.
In this paper I try to shed some historical light upon the doctrine of epiphenomenalism, by focusing on the version of epiphenomenalism championed by Thomas Huxley, which is often treated as a classic statement of the doctrine. I argue that it is doubtful if Huxley held any form of metaphysical epiphenomenalism, and that he held a more limited form of empirical epiphenomenalism with respect to consciousness but not with respect to mentality per se. Contrary to what is conventionally supposed, Huxley's empirical epiphenomenalism with respect to consciousness was not simply based upon the demonstration of the neurophysiological basis of conscious mentality, or derived from the extension of mechanistic and reflexive principles of explanation to encompass all forms of animal and human behavior, but was based upon the demonstration of purposive and coordinated animal and human behavior in the absence of consciousness. Given Huxley's own treatment of mentality, his characterization of animals and humans as &quot;conscious automata&quot; was not well chosen.


Among the most fascinating riddles in neuroscience is the one concerning the poor regeneration capacity of the adult mammalian CNS. A central aetiological hypothesis for the lack of axonal regeneration in the CNS concerns the inhibitory role of myelin components of the white matter. The main exponent of this hypothesis in the 1980s and 1990s has been Martin Schwab, although before him Martin Berry and others had suggested an inhibitory role for CNS myelin. However, a hypothesis for a negative neurotropic action exerted by CNS white matter was formulated by Lugaro already in 1906. This article is a belated tribute to Lugaro's original contribution in the field of neuroregeneration.
Frithiof Holmgren was a nineteenth-century Swedish professor of physiology who, after a sabbatical year at Helmholtz's laboratory in Heidelberg, devoted himself to studies of color vision and color blindness. Following Blix's successful demonstration of cutaneous receptor specificity by means of point stimulation, he decided to apply an analogous technique for psychophysical examination of the human retina. His findings appeared to support the Young-Helmholtz hypothesis of three primary colors and invalidated Hering's alternative four color opponent hypothesis. However, contemporaries (Hering, Isaachsen) could not reproduce Holmgren's results, and his findings fell into disrepute. They have now been confirmed, but their previous theoretical significance was not supported.
In rodents, the Otx2 gene is expressed in the diencephalon, mesencephalon, and cerebellum and is crucial for the development of these brain regions. Together with Otx1, Otx2 is known to cooperate with other genes to develop the caudal forebrain and, further, Otx1 is also involved in differentiation of young neurons of the deeper cortical layers. We have studied the spatial and temporal expression of the two homeobox genes OTX2 and OTX1 in human fetal brains from 7 to 14 weeks postconception by in situ hybridization and immunohistochemistry. OTX2 was expressed in the diencephalon, mesencephalon, and choroid plexus, with a minor expression in the basal telencephalon. The expression of OTX2 in the hippocampal anlage was strong, with no expression in the adjacent neocortex. Contrarily, the OTX1 expression was predominantly located in the proliferative zones of the neocortex. At later stages, the OTX2 protein was found in the subcommissural organ, pineal gland, and cerebellum. The early expression of OTX2 and OTX1 in proliferative cell layers of the human fetal brain supports the concept that these homeobox genes are important in neuronal cell development and differentiation: OTX1 primarily in the neocortex, and OTX2 in the archicortex, diencephalon, rostral brain stem, and cerebellum.
Dysregulation of TNF is an important pathophysiological phenotype for many diseases. Recently, certain genetically regulated loci have been identified to regulate several inflammatory diseases. We hypothesized that a region on rat chromosome 4 known to regulate experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis, experimental arthritis and experimental autoimmune neuritis harbors a gene regulating central inflammatory molecules, such as TNF. We therefore mapped TNF production using linkage analysis in the 12th generation of an advanced intercross line between DA and PVG.AV1 rats, which differ in susceptibility to several inflammatory conditions. A single TNF-regulating quantitative trait locus with a logarithm of odds score of 6.2 was identified and its biological effect was confirmed in a congenic rat strain. The profound TNF regulation mapped in congenic strains to the macrophage population. Several TLR signaling cascades led to the same reduced proinflammatory phenotype in congenic macrophages, indicating control of a convergence point for innate inflammatory activity. The decreased TNF potential and reduced proinflammatory macrophage phenotype in congenic rats was also associated with reduced clinical severity in experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis, pristane-induced arthritis and sepsis experimental models. Determination of genes and mechanisms involved in this genetically determined TNF regulation will be valuable in understanding disease pathogenesis and aid treatment development.
An endogenous circadian system is responsible for the rhythms observed in many physiological and behavioural traits in most organisms. In insects, the circadian system controls the periodicity of eclosion, egg-laying, locomotor and mating activity. The parasitoid wasp Nasonia vitripennis has been extensively used to study the role of the circadian system in photoperiodism. In this study, behavioural activities expected to be under the control of the endogenous circadian system were characterized in Nasonia. Male emergence from the host puparium is rhythmic under light-darkness conditions while eclosion from the own pupal integument is not rhythmic but continuous. Following entrainment in light-dark conditions, males show robust free-running circadian activity rhythms with a period (tau, tau) of approximately 25.6h in constant darkness. While the endogenous circadian system is enough to trigger male emergence in Nasonia, light seems to have a modulatory effect: when present it induces more males to emerge. Our results add to the understanding of chronobiological phenotypes in insects and provide a basis towards the molecular characterization of the endogenous circadian system in Nasonia.
This article summarizes some of the effects of stimulating muscarinic receptors on nerve cell activity as observed by recording from single nerve cells and cholinergic synapses in the peripheral and central nervous sytems. It addresses the nature of the muscarinic receptor(s) involved and the ion channels and subcellular mechanisms responsible for the effects. The article concentrates on three effects: postsynaptic excitation, postsynaptic inhibition, and presynaptic (auto) inhibition. Postsynaptic excitation results primarily from the inhibition of potassium currents by M(1)/M(3)/M(5) receptors, consequent upon activation of phospholipase C by the G protein Gq. Postsynaptic inhibition results from M2-activation of inward rectifier potassium channels, consequent upon activation of Gi. Presynaptic inhibition results from M(2) or M(4) inhibition of voltage-gated calcium channels, consequent upon activation of Go. The segregation receptors, G proteins and ion channels, and the corelease of acetylcholine and glutamate from cholinergic fibres in the brain are also discussed.
Multisensory reweighting (MSR) is an adaptive process that prioritizes the visual, vestibular, and somatosensory inputs to provide the most reliable information for postural stability when environmental conditions change. This process is thought to degrade with increasing age and to be particularly deficient in fall-prone versus healthy older adults. In the present study, the authors investigate the dynamics of sensory reweighting, which is not well-understood at any age. Postural sway of young, healthy, and fall-prone older adults was measured in response to large changes in the visual motion stimulus amplitude within a trial. Absolute levels of gain, and the rate of adaptive gain change were examined when visual stimulus amplitude changed from high to low and from low to high. Compared with young adults, gains in both older adult groups were higher when the stimulus amplitude was high. Gains in the fall-prone elderly were higher than both other groups when the stimulus amplitude was low. Both older groups demonstrated slowed sensory reweighting over prolonged time periods when the stimulus amplitude was high. The combination of higher vision gains and slower down weighting in older adults suggest deficits that may contribute to postural instability.
The aim of this study is assessing interactions between attachment style and personality in predicting body dissatisfaction (BD). A total of 586 outpatients with eating disorders (EDs) were recruited: 101 with anorexia nervosa, restricting type; 52 with anorexia nervosa, binge-eating/purging type; 184 with bulimia nervosa, purging type; and 249 with an eating disorder not otherwise specified. Participants completed Temperament and Character Inventory, Body Shape Questionnaire, Beck Depression Inventory, and Attachment Style Questionnaire. An insecure attachment was found in all EDs, as well as in eating disorder not otherwise specified. In all diagnostic groups, need for approval, as measured by the Attachment Style Questionnaire and depressive symptomatology, was found to be the best predictor of BD. Personality traits are weaker predictors of BD. This study supports the hypothesis that attachment insecurity is directly correlated with BD, core element in predicting and perpetuating EDs, independently of personality. Implications for treatment are discussed.
The receptor for advanced glycation end-products (RAGE) has been implicated in several pathophysiological processes relevant to Alzheimer's disease (AD), including transport and synaptotoxicity of AD-associated amyloid beta (Abeta) peptides. A recent Chinese study (Li et al. in J Neural Transm 117:97-104, 2010) suggested an association between the 82S allele of the functional single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) G82S (rs2070600) in the RAGE-encoding gene AGER and risk of AD. The present study aimed to investigate associations between AGER, AD diagnosis, cognitive scores and cerebrospinal fluid AD biomarkers in a European cohort of 316 neurochemically verified AD cases and 579 controls. Aside from G82S, three additional tag SNPs were analyzed to cover the common genetic variation in AGER. The 82S allele was associated with increased risk of AD (P (c) = 0.04, OR = 2.0, 95% CI 1.2-3.4). There was no genetic interaction between AGER 82S and APOE epsilon4 in producing increased risk of AD (P = 0.4), and none of the AGER SNPs showed association with Abeta(42), T-tau, P-tau(181) or mini-mental state examination scores. The data speak for a weak, but significant effect of AGER on risk of AD.
Toll-like receptors (TLRs) play essential roles in innate immunity, and increasing evidence indicates that these receptors are expressed in neurons, astrocytes, and microglia in the brain, where they mediate responses to infection, stress, and injury. To address the possibility that TLR2 heterodimer activation could affect progenitor cells in the developing brain, we analyzed the expression of TLR2 throughout mouse cortical development, and assessed the role of TLR2 heterodimer activation in neuronal progenitor cell (NPC) proliferation. TLR2 mRNA and protein was expressed in the cortex in embryonic and early postnatal stages of development, and in cultured cortical NPC. While NPC from TLR2-deficient and wild type embryos had the same proliferative capacity, TLR2 activation by the synthetic bacterial lipopeptides Pam(3)CSK(4) and FSL1, or low molecular weight hyaluronan, an endogenous ligand for TLR2, inhibited neurosphere formation in vitro. Intracerebral in utero administration of TLR2 ligands resulted in ventricular dysgenesis characterized by increased ventricle size, reduced proliferative area around the ventricles, increased cell density, an increase in phospho-histone 3 cells, and a decrease in BrdU(+) cells in the sub-ventricular zone. Our findings indicate that loss of TLR2 does not result in defects in cerebral development. However, TLR2 is expressed and functional in the developing telencephalon from early embryonic stages and infectious agent-related activation of TLR2 inhibits NPC proliferation. TLR2-mediated inhibition of NPC proliferation may therefore be a mechanism by which infection, ischemia, and inflammation adversely affect brain development.
Proteins that control the excitability of neurons, including voltage-dependent ion channels and neurotransmitter receptors, reside in a membrane lipid environment that includes sphingomyelin, but the influence of the metabolism of this lipid on excitability is unknown. Sphingomyelin in the plasma membrane can be cleaved by neutral sphingomyelinases (nSMase) to generate ceramides and sphingosine-1-phosphate (S1P) which have been shown to play a variety of roles in cellular signaling processes. We found that application of nSMase to hippocampal slices results in a selective enhancement in the population spike amplitude, resulting in fEPSP-PS potentiation of the CA3-CA1 schaeffer collateral synapse. Single cell recordings showed that nSMase activity increases action potential frequency in CA1 neurons in a reversible manner. Additional current clamp recordings showed that nSMase reduces the slow after-hyperpolarization after a burst of action potentials. Mass spectrometry-based measurements demonstrated that nSMase activity induces a rapid increase in the levels of ceramides and S1P in cells in hippocampal slices. The ability of nSMase to increase CA1 neuron excitability was blocked by an inhibitor of sphingosine kinase, the enzyme that converts ceramide to S1P. Moreover, direct intracellular application of S1P to CA1 neurons increased action potential firing. Our findings suggest roles for sphingomyelin metabolism and S1P in the positive regulation of the excitability of hippocampal neurons.
Because the olfactory system plays a major role in food consumption, and because 'food addiction' and associated morbidities have reached epidemic proportions, we tested the hypothesis that dietary energy restriction can modify adverse effects of cocaine on behavior and olfactory cellular and molecular plasticity. Mice maintained on an alternate day fasting (ADF) diet exhibited increased baseline locomotion and increased cocaine-sensitized locomotion during cocaine conditioning, despite no change in cocaine conditioned place preference, compared with mice fed ad libitum. Levels of dopamine and its metabolites in the olfactory bulb (OB) were suppressed in mice on the ADF diet compared with mice on the control diet, independent of acute or chronic cocaine treatment. The expression of several enzymes involved in dopamine metabolism including tyrosine hydroxylase, monoamine oxidases A and B, and catechol-O-methyltransferase were significantly reduced in OBs of mice on the ADF diet. Both acute and chronic administration of cocaine suppressed the production of new OB cells, and this effect of cocaine was attenuated in mice on the ADF diet. Cocaine administration to mice on the control diet resulted in up-regulation of OB genes involved in mitochondrial energy metabolism, synaptic plasticity, cellular stress responses, and calcium- and cAMP-mediated signaling, whereas multiple olfactory receptor genes were down-regulated by cocaine treatment. ADF abolished many of the effects of cocaine on OB gene expression. Our findings reveal that dietary energy intake modifies the neural substrates underlying some of the behavioral and physiological responses to repeated cocaine treatment, and also suggest novel roles for the olfactory system in addiction. The data further suggest that modification of dietary energy intake could provide a novel potential approach to addiction treatments.
Pyridoxal 5'-phosphate, the active form of vitamin B(6), is an essential cofactor for multiple enzymes, including aromatic l-amino acid decarboxylase that catalyses the final stage in the production of the neurotransmitters dopamine and serotonin. In two patients with inherited disorders of vitamin B(6) metabolism, we observed reductions in plasma aromatic l-amino acid decarboxylase activity. In one patient, this change was related to an increase in K(m) for pyridoxal 5'-phosphate. Furthermore, pyridoxal 5'-phosphate-deficient human SH-SY5Y neuroblastoma cells were found to exhibit reduced levels of aromatic l-amino acid decarboxylase activity and protein but with no alteration in expression. Further reductions in activity and protein were observed with the addition of the vitamin B(6) antagonist 4-deoxypyridoxine, which also reduced aromatic l-amino acid decarboxylase mRNA levels. Neither pyridoxal 5'-phosphate deficiency nor the addition of 4-deoxypyridoxine affected aromatic l-amino acid decarboxylase stability over 8 h with protein synthesis inhibited. Increasing extracellular availability of pyridoxal 5'-phosphate was not found to have any significant effect on intracellular pyridoxal 5'-phosphate concentrations or on aromatic l-amino acid decarboxylase. These findings suggest that maintaining adequate pyridoxal 5'-phosphate availability may be important for optimal treatment of aromatic l-amino acid decarboxylase deficiency and l-dopa-responsive conditions.
The Wiskott-Aldrich syndrome protein (WASP)-family verprolin homologous protein 1 (WAVE1) is a key regulator of Arp (actin-related protein) 2/3 complex-mediated actin polymerization. We have established previously that the state of phosphorylation of WAVE1 at three distinct residues controls its ability to regulate actin polymerization and spine morphology. Cyclin-dependent kinase 5 phosphorylates WAVE1 at Ser310, Ser397 and Ser441 to a high basal stoichiometry, resulting in inhibition of WAVE1 activity. Our previous and current studies show that WAVE1 can be dephosphorylated at all three sites and thereby activated upon stimulation of the D1 subclass of dopamine receptors and of the NMDA subclass of glutamate receptors, acting through cAMP and Ca(2+) signaling pathways, respectively. Specifically, we have identified protein phosphatase-2A and protein phosphatase-2B as the effectors for these second messengers. These phosphatases act on different sites to mediate receptor-induced signaling pathways, which would lead to activation of WAVE1.
NMDA receptors (NMDAR) contribute to neuronal development throughout the CNS. However, their mode(s) of activation preceding synaptic maturation is unclear, as they are not co-localized with alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methylisoxazole-4-propionate receptors (AMPARs) which normally provide sufficient depolarization to relieve voltage-dependent blockade by Mg(2+). We used cerebellar granule neurons (CGNs) cultured at a near-physiological KCl concentration to examine maturation-dependent changes in NMDAR responses. In contrast, most studies use KCl-supplemented medium to promote survival. At 2-4 days in vitro CGNs: (i) express developmental markers resembling the in vivo migratory phenotype; (ii) maintain a basal amount of calcium responsive element-binding protein phosphorylation that requires NMDARs and calcium/calmodulin-dependent kinases, but not AMPARs; (iii) exhibit NMDA-mediated Ca(2+) influx not effectively blocked by ambient Mg(2+) (0.75 mM) or AMPARs; (iv) maintain a more depolarized resting membrane potential and increased resistance compared to synaptically-connected CGNs. Moreover, migrating CGNs in explant cultures demonstrate NMDA-mediated Ca(2+) influx not effectively blocked by 0.75 mM Mg(2+), and NMDAR but not AMPAR antagonists slow migration. These data suggest the biophysical properties of immature CGNs render NMDARs less sensitive to Mg(2+) blockade, enhancing the likelihood of activation in the absence of AMPAR depolarization.
Basic fibroblast growth factor (FGF2, bFGF) is the most extensively studied member of the FGF family and is involved in neurogenesis, differentiation, neuroprotection, and synaptic plasticity in the CNS. FGF2 executes its pleiotropic biologic actions by binding, dimerizing, and activating FGF receptors (FGFRs). The present study reports the physiologic impact of various FGF2-FGFR1 contact sites employing three different synthetic peptides, termed canofins, designed based on structural analysis of the interactions between FGF2 and FGFR1. Canofins mimic the cognate ligand interaction with the receptor and preserve the neuritogenic and neuroprotective properties of FGF2. Canofins were shown by surface plasmon resonance analysis to bind to FGFR1 and promote receptor activation. However, FGF2-induced receptor phosphorylation was inhibited by canofins, indicating that canofins are partial FGFR agonists. Furthermore, canofins were demonstrated to induce neuronal differentiation determined by neurite outgrowth from cerebellar granule neurons, and this effect was dependent on FGFR activation. Additionally, canofins acted as neuroprotectants, promoting survival of cerebellar granule neurons induced to undergo apoptosis. Our results suggest that canofins mirror the effect of specific interaction sites in FGF2 for FGFR. Thus, canofins are valuable pharmacological tools to study the functional roles of specific molecular interactions of FGF2 with FGFR.
To maximise reproductive success, organisms restrict breeding to optimal times of the day or year, when internal physiology and external environmental conditions are suitable for the survival of both parent and offspring. To appropriately coordinate reproductive activity, internal and external standing is communicated to the hypothalamic-pituitary-gonadal axis via a coordinated balance of stimulatory and inhibitory neurochemical systems. The cumulative balance of these mediators ultimately drives the pattern of gonadotrophin-releasing hormone secretion, a neurohormone that stimulates pituitary gonadotrophin secretion. Until 2000, a complementary inhibitor of pituitary gonadotrophin secretion had not been identified. At this time, a novel, avian hypothalamic peptide capable of inhibiting gonadotrophin secretion in cultured quail pituitary cells was uncovered and named gonadotrophin-inhibitory hormone (GnIH). Subsequently, the presence and functional role for the mammalian orthologue of GnIH, RFamide-related peptide, (RFRP-3), was examined, confirming a conserved role for this peptide across several rodent species. To date, a similar distribution and functional role for RFRP-3 have been observed across all mammals investigated, including humans. This overview summarises the role that RFRP-3 plays in mammals and considers the implications and opportunities for further study with respect to reproductive physiology and the neural control of sexual behaviour and motivation.

Besides their genomic effects, oestrogens, 17beta-oestradiol in particular, also activate cellular effects that may be too rapid (seconds to minutes) to result from de novo protein synthesis. Although the existence of such nongenomic actions has been extensively demonstrated in vitro, the understanding of their behavioural significance is only emerging. Recent findings provide evidence that acute oestrogen treatments significantly affect a variety of behavioural processes, including sexual behaviour, social communication and cognition. One question arising from these results concerns the source of the oestrogens mediating nongenomic effects in vivo. In this review, data collected in vitro and in vivo are presented supporting the notion that fast modulations of local testosterone aromatisation can rapidly control the local oestrogen concentration in a time frame compatible with their rapid actions. Taken together, these data provide compelling evidence of how rapid changes in the local production and action of oestrogens can shape complex behaviours.
A central tenet of contemporary theories on mammalian brain and behavioural sexual differentiation is that an organisational action of testosterone, secreted by the male's testes, controls male-typical aspects of brain and behavioural development, whereas no active perinatal sex hormone signalling is required for female-typical sexual differentiation. Furthermore, the available evidence suggests that many, although not all, of the perinatal organisational actions of testosterone on the development of the male brain result from the cellular effects of oestradiol formed via neural aromatisation of testosterone. However, a default developmental programme for the female brain has been criticised. Indeed, we review new results obtained in aromatase knockout mice indicating that oestradiol actively contributes to the differentiation of female-typical aspects of brain and behavioural sexual differentiation. Furthermore, we propose that male-typical neural and behavioural differentiation occurs prenatally in genetic males under the influence of oestradiol, which is avoided in foetal genetic females by the neuroprotective actions of alpha-fetoprotein, whereas female-typical neural and behavioural differentiation normally occurs postnatally in genetic females under the influence of oestradiol that is presumably produced by the ovaries.
Ghrelin and obestatin are two gastrointestinal peptides obtained by post-translational processing of a common precursor, preproghrelin. Ghrelin is an orexigenic and adipogenic peptide and a potent growth hormone secretagogue (GHS) modified by the enzyme ghrelin-O-acyl-transferase to bind and activate its receptor, the GHS-R. The ghrelin/GHS-R pathway is complex and the effects of ghrelin on GH secretion, adiposity and food intake appear to be relayed by distinct mechanisms involving different transduction signals and constitutive activity for the GH-R, different cofactors as modulators of endogenous ghrelin signalling and/or alternative ghrelin receptors. The discovery of obestatin in 2005 brought an additional level of complexity to this fascinating system. Obestatin was initially identified as an anorexigenic peptide and as the cognate ligand for GPR39, but its effect on food intake and its ability to activate GPR39 are still controversial. Although several teams failed to reproduce the anorexigenic actions of obestatin, this peptide has been shown to antagonise GH secretion and food intake induced by ghrelin and could be an interesting pharmacological tool to counteract the actions of ghrelin. Ghrelin and obestatin immunoreactivities are recovered in the blood with an ultradian pulsatility and their concentrations in plasma vary with the nutritional status of the body. It is still a matter of debate whether both hormones are regulated by independent mechanisms and whether obestatin is a physiologically relevant peptide. Nevertheless, a significant number of studies show that the ghrelin/obestatin ratio is modified in anorexia nervosa and obesity. This suggests that the ghrelin/obestatin balance could be essential to adapt the body's response to nutritional challenges. Although measuring ghrelin and obestatin in plasma is challenging because many forms of the peptides circulate, more sensitive and selective assays to detect the different preproghrelin-derived peptides are being developed and may be the key to obtaining a better understanding of their roles in different physiological and pathological conditions.
Hormone secretion often occurs in a pulsatile manner. In this review, we discuss two rhythms of in vivo prolactin release in female rats and the ongoing research that we and others have performed aiming to understand the mechanisms underlying them. The peptide hormone oxytocin appears to play an important role in both rhythms. One rhythm occurs during the first half of pregnancy, but can also be induced in ovariectomised rats. This is characterised by a circadian pattern with two prolactin surges per day. Two methods for triggering this rhythm are discussed, each utilising a unique physiological pathway that includes oxytocin action, presumably on pituitary lactotrophs. The second rhythm occurs during the oestrous cycle and is characterised by a surge of prolactin on the afternoon of pro-oestrus. We discuss recent findings that oxytocin is more effective at stimulating prolactin release from lactotrophs taken from animals on the afternoon of pro-oestrus than from those of animals on the morning of dioestrus 1, raising the possibility that this hormone plays a physiological role in the regulation of prolactin secretion during the oestrous cycle.

This short review summarises the PD related research published in the Journal of Neurology in 2009.
The differential diagnosis between Alzheimer's disease (AD) and major depression (MD) in the elderly can be problematic because the cognitive profile of the two conditions overlaps. Associative learning tasks seem to separate AD from MD. However, they are sensitive to the effects of normal ageing. Short-term memory-binding tasks have proved insensitive to the effects of normal ageing and highly sensitive to AD. However, they have not been used to differentiate AD from MD. The present study was aimed at investigating visual short-term memory binding in AD and MD. Fourteen AD patients, 14 patients with MD, and 14 healthy older adults were asked to perform a visual short-term memory binding task that investigated the retention of shapes, colors, or combinations of shapes and colors. Participants were to recognize changes occurring between two consecutive displays either in a single dimension (i.e., shape or color only) or in two dimensions (i.e., shape-color binding). Short-term memory performance for shape or color only was equivalent across groups. The only significant effect found was in short-term memory for shape-color binding and this was due to AD patients performing poorly in this condition only. The results extend previous findings in AD to visual short-term memory and suggest that the specific impairment in binding information in memory differentiates between the performance of AD and patients with MD.




Little is known about the cytogenetic and molecular genetic events that lead to the formation of paediatric astrocytoma. We have analysed 57 paediatric astrocytoma (WHO grades I-IV) using comparative genomic hybridisation in order to identify common regions of abnormality. Large regions of copy number alterations were infrequent with 71% of tumours demonstrating no genomic imbalance. Furthermore, the most frequent aberrations (including gain of 6q, 2q, and 7q, and loss of 16 and 12q) occurred in only a subset of cases. High-copy number amplification was seen in five tumours at 12 different regions. The presence of copy number alterations was significantly associated with increasing grade of malignancy, and gain of 12q and the presence of high-copy number amplification were associated with a poor outcome in patients with malignant astrocytoma (P = 0.0039 and 0.0085, respectively). FISH analysis confirmed loss of 1p36 identified by CGH. There was no evidence of amplification of EGFR, CDK4, MET, CDK6, c-myc, or MDM2.
The authors report their 27-year experience regarding 35 cases of supratentorial brain metastasis from sarcoma treated in a single institution: these included ten osteosarcomas, seven leiomyosarcomas, five Ewing sarcomas, four malignant fibrous histiocytomas, three alveolar soft-part sarcomas (ASPS), two rhabdomyosarcomas, one liposarcoma, and three unclassified sarcomas. The first 15 cases of the series have already been described in a previous publication. Median survival after craniotomy was 9.8 months (range: 4-24). In patients with preoperative Karnofsky performance score (KPS) &gt; 60 it was 12.8 months (range: 6.5-24 months) versus 5.4 months for those patients with a KPS &lt; or = 60 (P = 0.01). Eight patients had more than one lesion, six of which were treated in the last ten years. Of the three patients with ASPS, the first two were alive at 15 and 20 months (before being lost to follow-up) whereas the third patient is alive at 24 month follow-up. The authors conclude that surgery is more effective in treating selected patients with sarcoma metastatic to the brain, and that patients with metastasis from ASPS have good prognosis when submitted to surgical treatment. The complete removal of all brain metastases &quot;en bloc&quot; and a KPS &gt; 60 are associated with the best prognosis. Finally, it seems that surgical indications for multiple brain metastases from sarcoma have increased during the last ten years.
Multiple sclerosis (MS) is a T-cell autoimmune disease of the central nervous system (CNS). Predominance of women in autoimmune diseases suggests that sex hormones may play a role in disease susceptibility. A possible role for prolactin, a neuroendocrine peptide with powerful immunomodulatory properties, is suggested in MS. We describe the case of a 32-year-old man affected by relapsing-remitting MS who experienced the first MS clinical event during the development of a prolactin-secreting adenoma and the only two MS relapses during adenoma recurrence. Prolactin may have facilitated the inflammatory process and triggered MS clinical attacks, suggesting a role of prolactin in immunomodulation and therefore in autoimmune disease course.
High density micro-RNA (miRNA) arrays, fluorescent-reporter miRNA assay and Northern miRNA dot-blot analysis show that a brain-enriched miRNA-128 is significantly down-regulated in glioblastoma multiforme (GBM) and in GBM cell lines when compared to age-matched controls. The down-regulation of miRNA-128 was found to inversely correlate with WHO tumor grade. Three bioinformatics-verified miRNA-128 targets, angiopoietin-related growth factor protein 5 (ARP5; ANGPTL6), a transcription suppressor that promotes stem cell renewal and inhibits the expression of known tumor suppressor genes involved in senescence and differentiation, Bmi-1, and a transcription factor critical for the control of cell-cycle progression, E2F-3a, were found to be up-regulated. Addition of exogenous miRNA-128 to CRL-1690 and CRL-2610 GBM cell lines (a) restored 'homeostatic' ARP5 (ANGPTL6), Bmi-1 and E2F-3a expression, and (b) significantly decreased the proliferation of CRL-1690 and CRL-2610 cell lines. Our data suggests that down-regulation of miRNA-128 may contribute to glioma and GBM, in part, by coordinately up-regulating ARP5 (ANGPTL6), Bmi-1 and E2F-3a, resulting in the proliferation of undifferentiated GBM cells.
A cardinal feature of multiple sclerosis (MS) is the persistent intrathecal synthesis of antibodies. Our previous finding that a large fraction of B cells infiltrating the MS brain are infected with Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) raises the possibility that this virus, because of its ability to establish a latent infection in B cells and interfere with their differentiation, contributes to B-cell dysregulation in MS. The aim of this study was to gain further insight into EBV latency programs and their relationship to B-cell activation in the MS brain. Immunohistochemical analysis of postmortem MS brain samples harboring large EBV deposits revealed that most B cells in white matter lesions, meninges, and ectopic B-cell follicles are CD27+ antigen-experienced cells and coexpress latent membrane protein 1 and latent membrane protein 2A, 2 EBV-encoded proteins that provide survival and maturation signals to B cells. By combining laser-capture microdissection with preamplification reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction techniques, EBV latency transcripts (latent membrane protein 2A, EBV nuclear antigen 1) were detected in all MS brain samples analyzed. We also found that B cell-activating factor of the tumor necrosis factor family is expressed in EBV-infected B cells in acute MS lesions and ectopic B-cell follicles. These findings support a role for EBV infection in B-cell activation in the MS brain and suggest that B cell-activating factor of the tumor necrosis factor family produced by EBV-infected B cells may contribute to this process resulting in viral persistence and, possibly, disruption of B-cell tolerance.
Many real life tasks that require impedance control to minimize motion error are characterized by multiple solutions where the task can be performed either by co-contracting muscle groups, which requires a large effort, or, conversely, by relaxing muscles. However, human motor optimization studies have focused on tasks that are always satisfied by increasing impedance and that are characterized by a single error-effort optimum. To investigate motor optimization in the presence of multiple solutions and hence optima, we introduce a novel paradigm that enables us to let subjects repetitively (but inconspicuously) use different solutions and observe how exploration of multiple solutions affect their motor behavior. The results show that the behavior is largely influenced by motor memory with subjects tending to involuntarily repeat a recent suboptimal task-satisfying solution even after sufficient experience of the optimal solution. This suggests that the CNS does not optimize co-activation tasks globally but determines the motor behavior in a tradeoff of motor memory, error, and effort minimization.
Analysis of local field potentials (LFPs) helps understand the function of the converging neuronal populations that produce the mixed synaptic activity in principal cells. Recently, using independent component analysis (ICA), we resolved ongoing hippocampal activity into several major contributions of stratified LFP-generators. Here, using pathway-specific LFP reconstruction, we isolated LFP-generators that describe the activity of Schaffer-CA1 and Perforant-Dentate excitatory inputs in the anesthetized rat. First, we applied ICA and current source density analysis to LFPs evoked by electrical subthreshold stimulation of the pathways. The results showed that pathway specific activity is selectively captured by individual components or LFP-generators. Each generator matches the known distribution of axonal terminal fields in the hippocampus and recovers the specific time course of their activation. Second, we use sparse weak electrical stimulation to prime ongoing LFPs with activity of a known origin. Decomposition of ongoing LFPs yields a few significant LFP-generators with distinct spatiotemporal characteristics for the Schaffer and Perforant inputs. Both pathways convey an irregular temporal pattern in bouts of population activity of varying amplitude. Importantly, the contribution of Schaffer and Perforant inputs to the power of raw LFPs in the hippocampus is minor (7 and 5%, respectively). The results support the hypothesis on a sparse population code used by excitatory populations in the entorhino-hippocampal system, and they validate the separation of LFP-generators as a powerful tool to explore the computational function of neuronal circuits in real time.
Attempts have been made in various studies to identify and trace changes in function in the aging visual system. Some results are conflicting and we report here a unique approach in an attempt to resolve selected issues. We have estimated neurometabolic coupling in the central visual pathway in young and old cats. Our technique provides high resolution simultaneous measurements of neuronal activity and changes in concentration of tissue oxygen in the thalamus of young and old cats. Following visual stimulation, we find shorter latency and time to peak in tissue oxygen responses in old compared with young animals. Estimates of local activity induced initial negative oxygen response show substantial reductions in older animals. Measurements of neural activity in the form of multiple unit activity are similar in the two age groups. To investigate the mechanisms underlying the changes in tissue oxygen response in older animals, we measured vascular capillary density and found it to be substantially lower in old than that in young animals. Together, these findings suggest that the changes in metabolic responses with age may be largely accounted for by alterations in the cerebral microvasculature rather than by changes in neural activity.
The pedunculopontine nucleus (PPN) is involved in the activated states of waking and paradoxical sleep, forming part of the reticular activating system (RAS). The studies described tested the hypothesis that single unit and/or population responses of PPN neurons are capable of generating gamma band frequency activity. Whole cell patch clamp recordings (immersion chamber) and population responses (interface chamber) were conducted on 9- to 20-day-old rat brain stem slices. Regardless of cell type (I, II, or III) or type of response to the nonselective cholinergic receptor agonist carbachol (excitation, inhibition, biphasic), almost all PPN neurons fired at gamma band frequency, but no higher, when subjected to depolarizing steps (50 +/- 2 Hz, mean +/- SE). Nonaccommodating neurons fired at 18-100 Hz throughout depolarizing steps, while most accommodating neurons exhibited gamma band frequency of action potentials followed by gamma band membrane oscillations. These oscillations were blocked by the sodium channel blocker tetrodotoxin (TTX), suggesting that at least some are mediated by sodium currents. Population responses in the PPN showed that carbachol induced peaks of activation in the theta and gamma range, while glutamatergic receptor agonists induced overall increases in activity at theta and gamma frequencies, although in differing patterns. Gamma band activity appears to be a part of the intrinsic membrane properties of PPN neurons, and the population as a whole generates different patterns of gamma band activity under the influence of specific transmitters. Given sufficient excitation, the PPN may impart gamma band activation on its targets.
Recent biochemical and behavioral data implicate reactive oxygen species (ROS) in peripheral and spinal pain mechanisms. However, pain-related functions of ROS in the brain and mechanisms of pain-related ROS activation remain to be determined. Our previous studies showed that the amygdala plays a key role in emotional-affective pain responses and pain modulation. Hyperactivity of amygdala neurons in an animal pain model depends on group I metabotropic glutamate receptors (subtypes mGluR1 and mGluR5), but their signaling pathway remains to be determined. Here we tested the hypothesis that activation of group I mGluRs increases nociceptive processing in amygdala neurons through a mechanism that involves ROS. Extracellular single-unit recordings were made from neurons in the laterocapsular division of the central nucleus of the amygdala (CeLC) in anesthetized adult male rats. Administration of a group I mGluR agonist (DHPG) into the CeLC by microdialysis increased the responses to innocuous and noxious somatosensory (knee joint compression) and visceral (colorectal distention [CRD]) stimuli. A ROS scavenger (PBN) and a superoxide dismutase mimetic (TEMPOL) reversed the facilitatory effects of DHPG. An mGluR5 antagonist (MPEP) also inhibited the effects of DHPG on the responses to innocuous and noxious somatosensory and visceral stimuli, whereas an mGluR1 antagonist (LY367385) decreased only the responses to visceral stimulation. The results show for the first time that ROS mediate group I mGluR-induced facilitation of nociceptive processing in amygdala neurons. The antagonist data may suggest differential contributions of subtypes mGluR1 and mGluR5 to the processing of somatosensory and visceral nociceptive information in the amygdala.
Dopaminergic neurons are subject to a significant background GABAergic input in vivo. The presence of this GABAergic background might be expected to inhibit dopaminergic neuron firing. However, dopaminergic neurons are not all silent but instead fire in single-spiking and burst firing modes. Here we present evidence that phasic changes in the tonic activity of GABAergic afferents are a potential extrinsic mechanism that triggers bursts and pauses in dopaminergic neurons. We find that spontaneous single-spiking is more sensitive to activation of GABA receptors than phasic N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA)-mediated burst firing in rat slices (P15-P31). Because tonic activation of GABA(A) receptors has previously been shown to suppress burst firing in vivo, our results suggest that the activity patterns seen in vivo are the result of a balance between excitatory and inhibitory conductances that interact with the intrinsic pacemaking currents observed in slices. Using the dynamic clamp technique, we applied balanced, constant NMDA and GABA(A) receptor conductances into dopaminergic neurons in slices. Bursts could be produced by disinhibition (phasic removal of the GABA(A) receptor conductance), and these bursts had a higher frequency than bursts produced by the same NMDA receptor conductance alone. Phasic increases in the GABA(A) receptor conductance evoked pauses in firing. In contrast to NMDA receptor, application of constant AMPA and GABA(A) receptor conductances caused the cell to go into depolarization block. These results support a bidirectional mechanism by which GABAergic inputs, in balance with NMDA receptor-mediated excitatory inputs, control the firing pattern of dopaminergic neurons.
In vitro whole cell patch-clamp recordings of stellate cells in layer II of medial entorhinal cortex show a subthreshold membrane potential resonance in response to a sinusoidal current injection of varying frequency. Physiological recordings from awake behaving animals show that neurons in layer II medial entorhinal cortex, termed &quot;grid cells,&quot; fire in a spatially selective manner such that each cell's multiple firing fields form a hexagonal grid. Both the spatial periodicity of the grid fields and the resonance frequency change systematically in neurons along the dorsal to ventral axis of medial entorhinal cortex. Previous work has also shown that grid field spacing and acetylcholine levels change as a function of the novelty to a particular environment. Using in vitro whole cell patch-clamp recordings, our study shows that both resonance frequency and resonance strength vary as a function of cholinergic modulation. Furthermore, our data suggest that these changes in resonance properties are mediated through modulation of h-current and m-current.
The autoassociative memory model of hippocampal field CA3 postulates that Hebbian associations among external input features produce attractor states embedded in a recurrent synaptic matrix. In contrast, the attractor-map model postulates that a two-dimensional continuum of attractor states is preconfigured in the network during development and that transitions among these states are governed primarily by self-motion information (&quot;path-integration&quot;), giving rise to the strong spatial characteristic of hippocampal activity. In this model, learned associations between &quot;coordinates&quot; on the attractor map and external cues can result in abrupt jumps between states, in the case of mismatches between the current input and previous associations between internal coordinates and external landmarks. Both models predict attractor dynamics, but for fundamentally different reasons; however, the two models are not a priori mutually exclusive. We contrasted these two models by comparing the dynamics of state transitions when two previously learned environmental shapes were morphed between their endpoints, in animals that had first experienced the environments either at the same location, or at two different locations, connected by a passageway through which they walked. As predicted from attractor-map theory, the latter animals expressed abrupt transitions between representations at the midpoint of the morph series. Contrary to the predictions of autoassociation theory, the former group expressed no evidence of attractor dynamics during the morph series; there was only a gradual transition between endpoints. The results of this critical test thus cast the autoassociator theory for CA3 into doubt and indicate the need for a new theory for this structure.
Simultaneous behavior and multielectrode neural recordings in freely behaving rodents holds great promise to study the neural bases of behavior and disease models in combination with genetic manipulations. Here, we introduce the use of three-axis accelerometers to characterize the behavior of rats and mice during chronic neural recordings. These sensors were small and light enough to be worn by rodents and were used to record three-axis acceleration during freely moving behavior. A two-layer neural network-based pattern recognition algorithm was developed to extract the natural behavior of mice from the acceleration data. Successful recognition of resting, eating, grooming, and rearing are shown using this approach. The inertial sensors were combined with continuous 24-h recordings of neural data from the striatum of mice to characterize variations in neural activity with circadian cycles and to study the neural correlates of spontaneous action initiation. Finally, accelerometers were used to study the performance of rodents in traditional operant conditioning, where they were used to extract the reaction time of rodents. Thus the addition of accelerometer recordings of rodents to chronic multielectrode neural recordings provides great value for a number of neuroscience applications.
Many studies have documented the involvement of medial superior temporal extrastriate area (MST) in the perception of heading based on optic flow information. Furthermore, both heading perception and the responses of MST neurons are relatively stable in the presence of eye movements that distort the retinal flow information on which perception is based. Area VIP in the posterior parietal cortex also contains a robust representation of optic flow cues for heading. However, the studies in the two areas were frequently conducted using different stimuli, making quantitative comparison difficult. To remedy this, we studied MST using a family of random dot heading stimuli that we have previously used in the study of VIP. These stimuli simulate observer translation through a three-dimensional cloud of points, and a range of forward headings was presented both with and without horizontal smooth pursuit eye movements. We found that MST neurons, like VIP neurons, respond robustly to these stimuli and partially compensate for the presence of pursuit. Quantitative comparison of the responses revealed no substantial difference between the heading responses of MST and VIP neurons or in their degree of pursuit tolerance.
Sleep spindles are approximately 1 s bursts of 10-16 Hz activity that occur during stage 2 sleep. Spindles are highly synchronous across the cortex and thalamus in animals, and across the scalp in humans, implying correspondingly widespread and synchronized cortical generators. However, prior studies have noted occasional dissociations of the magnetoencephalogram (MEG) from the EEG during spindles, although detailed studies of this phenomenon have been lacking. We systematically compared high-density MEG and EEG recordings during naturally occurring spindles in healthy humans. As expected, EEG was highly coherent across the scalp, with consistent topography across spindles. In contrast, the simultaneously recorded MEG was not synchronous, but varied strongly in amplitude and phase across locations and spindles. Overall, average coherence between pairs of EEG sensors was approximately 0.7, whereas MEG coherence was approximately 0.3 during spindles. Whereas 2 principle components explained approximately 50% of EEG spindle variance, &gt;15 were required for MEG. Each PCA component for MEG typically involved several widely distributed locations, which were relatively coherent with each other. These results show that, in contrast to current models based on animal experiments, multiple asynchronous neural generators are active during normal human sleep spindles and are visible to MEG. It is possible that these multiple sources may overlap sufficiently in different EEG sensors to appear synchronous. Alternatively, EEG recordings may reflect diffusely distributed synchronous generators that are less visible to MEG. An intriguing possibility is that MEG preferentially records from the focal core thalamocortical system during spindles, and EEG from the distributed matrix system.
Voluntary and stimulus-driven shifts of attention can modulate the representation of behaviorally relevant stimuli in early areas of visual cortex. In turn, attended items are processed faster and more accurately, facilitating the selection of appropriate behavioral responses. Information processing is also strongly influenced by past experience and recent studies indicate that the learned value of a stimulus can influence relatively late stages of decision making such as the process of selecting a motor response. However, the learned value of a stimulus can also influence the magnitude of cortical responses in early sensory areas such as V1 and S1. These early effects of stimulus value are presumed to improve the quality of sensory representations; however, the nature of these modulations is not clear. They could reflect nonspecific changes in response amplitude associated with changes in general arousal or they could reflect a bias in population responses so that high-value features are represented more robustly. To examine this issue, subjects performed a two-alternative forced choice paradigm with a variable-interval payoff schedule to dynamically manipulate the relative value of two stimuli defined by their orientation (one was rotated clockwise from vertical, the other counterclockwise). Activation levels in visual cortex were monitored using functional MRI and feature-selective voxel tuning functions while subjects performed the behavioral task. The results suggest that value not only modulates the relative amplitude of responses in early areas of human visual cortex, but also sharpens the response profile across the populations of feature-selective neurons that encode the critical stimulus feature (orientation). Moreover, changes in space- or feature-based attention cannot easily explain the results because representations of both the selected and the unselected stimuli underwent a similar feature-selective modulation. This sharpening in the population response profile could theoretically improve the probability of correctly discriminating high-value stimuli from low-value alternatives.
Neurons have been recorded that reflect in their firing rates the confidence in a decision. Here we show how this could arise as an emergent property in an integrate-and-fire attractor network model of decision making. The attractor network has populations of neurons that respond to each of the possible choices, each biased by the evidence for that choice, and there is competition between the attractor states until one population wins the competition and finishes with high firing that represents the decision. Noise resulting from the random spiking times of individual neurons makes the decision making probabilistic. We also show that a second attractor network can make decisions based on the confidence in the first decision. This system is supported by and accounts for neuronal responses recorded during decision making and makes predictions about the neuronal activity that will be found when a decision is made about whether to stay with a first decision or to abort the trial and start again. The research shows how monitoring can be performed in the brain and this has many implications for understanding cognitive functioning.
An elegant theory that links hippocampal neurogenesis to mood and anxiety disorders and to the mechanism of action of antidepressant drugs has gained widespread attention. However, depression and anxiety disorders involve multiple areas of the brain, such as the amygdala and prefrontal cortex, where neurogenesis does not appear to occur in the adult mammalian brain. A complementary theory is proposed here in which neurogenesis is seen as an epiphenomenon of a more widespread alteration in dendritic length and spine number. According to this theory, exposure to chronic stress and stressful life events increases excitotoxic glutamatergic neurotransmission in multiple brain areas. To protect neurons from consequent apoptosis, dendrites retract and spine number decreases, thus limiting the number of exposed glutamate receptors. Drugs that reduce glutamatergic neurotransmission under these circumstances, many of which have already been shown helpful in treating mood and anxiety disorders, may prevent this dendritic retraction and thus protect synaptic connections throughout the brain.
Activation of fibroblast growth factor (FGF) receptors (FGFRs) both by FGFs and by the neural cell adhesion molecule (NCAM) is crucial in the development and function of the nervous system. We found that FGFR substrate 2alpha (FRS2alpha), Src homologous and collagen A (ShcA), and phospholipase-Cgamma (PLCgamma) were all required for neurite outgrowth from cerebellar granule neurons (CGNs) induced by FGF1 and FGL (an NCAM-derived peptide agonist of FGFR1). Like FGF1, FGL induced tyrosine phosphorylation of FGFR1, FRS2alpha, ShcA, and PLCgamma in a time- and dose-dependent manner. However, the activation of FRS2alpha by FGL was significantly lower than the activation by FGF1, indicating a differential signaling profile induced by NCAM compared with the cognate growth factor.
Amyloid beta (Abeta) is a key molecule in the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease, but its physiological function remains unclear. Abeta is produced from amyloid precursor protein (APP) by beta- and gamma-secretases, which is enhanced by high levels of cellular cholesterol, so cholesterol is a risk factor for Alzheimer's disease. This linkage led us to hypothesize that Abeta is produced to regulate cellular cholesterol levels in response to high-cholesterol stimulation. Here we show that Abeta production caused a reduction of cellular cholesterol levels in transfected HEK293 cells and neuronal IMR-32 and Neuro2a cells, which was accompanied by an increase in efflux of cholesterol from cells. Fractionation of the culture media by ultracentrifugation and subsequent immunoelectron microscopic observation revealed that Abeta assembled high-density lipoprotein-like particles with cellular cholesterol during its secretion. This assembly was mediated by the ATP-binding cassette transporter A1. APP transgenic and knockout mice exhibited lower and higher levels of cellular cholesterol in their brains, suggesting that Abeta-mediated regulation of cellular cholesterol is physiological. Furthermore, we found that, when injected into mouse cerebral ventricle, reconstituted lipoproteins with Abeta were excreted into the peripheral tissues more efficiently than those without Abeta. This result suggests that Abeta mediates cholesterol transport from the brain to the circulation. We propose, based on these findings, a novel, apolipoprotein-like function for Abeta that is involved in maintenance of cellular and cerebral cholesterol homeostasis.
3-Iodothyronamine (T1AM) is a metabolite of thyroid hormone. It is an agonist at trace amine-associated receptor 1 (TAAR1), a recently identified receptor involved in monoaminergic regulation and a potential novel therapeutic target. Here, T1AM was studied using rhesus monkey TAAR1 and/or human dopamine transporter (DAT) co-transfected cells, and wild-type (WT) and TAAR1 knock-out (KO) mice. The IC(50) of T1AM competition for binding of the DAT-specific radio-ligand [(3)H]CFT was highly similar in DAT cells, WT striatal synaptosomes and KO striatal synaptosomes (0.72-0.81 microM). T1AM inhibition of 10 nM [(3)H]dopamine uptake (IC(50): WT, 1.4 + or - 0.5 microM; KO, 1.2 + or - 0.4 microM) or 50 nM [(3)H]serotonin uptake (IC(50): WT, 4.5 + or - 0.6 microM; KO, 4.7 + or - 1.1 microM) in WT and KO synaptosomes was also highly similar. Unlike other TAAR1 agonists that are DAT substrates, TAAR1 signaling in response to T1AM was not enhanced in the presence of DAT as determined by CRE-luciferase assay. In vivo, T1AM induced robust hypothermia in WT and KO mice equivalently and dose dependently (maximum change degrees Celsius: 50 mg/kg at 60 min: WT -6.0 + or - 0.4, KO -5.6 + or - 1.0; and 25 mg/kg at 30 min: WT -2.7 + or - 0.4, KO -3.0 + or - 0.2). Other TAAR1 agonists including beta-phenylethylamine (beta-PEA), MDMA (3,4-methylenedioxymethamphetamine) and methamphetamine also induced significant, time-dependent thermoregulatory responses that were alike in WT and KO mice. Therefore, TAAR1 co-expression does not alter T1AM binding to DAT in vitro nor T1AM inhibition of [(3)H]monoamine uptake ex vivo, and TAAR1 agonist-induced thermoregulatory responses are TAAR1-independent. Accordingly, TAAR1-directed compounds will likely not affect thermoregulation nor are they likely to be cryogens.
Mild traumatic brain injury (mTBI) is the commonest form of TBI. Though the name implies, it may not be mild in certain cases. There is a lot of heterogeneity in nomenclature, classification, evaluation and outcome of mTBI. We have reviewed the relevant articles on mTBI in adults, particularly its definition, evaluation and outcome, published in the last decade. The aspects of mTBI like pediatric age group, sports concussion, and postconcussion syndrome were not reviewed. There is general agreement that Glasgow coma score (GCS) of 13 should not be considered as mTBI as the risk of intracranial lesion is higher than in patients with GCS 14-15. All patients with GCS of &lt;15 should be evaluated with a computed tomography (CT) scan. Patients with GCS 15 and risk factors or neurological symptoms should also be evaluated with CT scan. The outcome of mTBI depends on the combination of preinjury, injury and postinjury factors. Overall outcome of mTBI is good with mortality around 0.1% and disability around 10%.

Stroke is the third leading cause of death in the USA, Canada, Europe, and Japan. According to the American Heart Association and the American Stroke Association, there are now 750,000 new strokes that occur each year, resulting in 200,000 deaths, or 1 of every 16 deaths, per year in the USA alone. Endovascular therapy for patients with acute ischemic stroke is an area of intense investigation. The American Stroke Association has given a qualified endorsement of intraarterial thrombolysis in selected patients. Intraarterial thrombolysis has been studied in two randomized trials and numerous case series. Although two devices have been granted FDA approval with an indication for mechanical stroke thrombectomy, none of these thrombectomy devices has demonstrated efficacy for the improvement of patient outcomes. The purpose of the present document is to define what constitutes adequate training to perform neuroendovascular procedures in patients with acute ischemic stroke and what performance standards should be adopted to assess outcomes. These guidelines have been written and approved by multiple neuroscience societies which historically have been directly involved in the medical, surgical and endovascular care of patients with acute stroke. The participating member organizations of the Neurovascular Coalition involved in the writing and endorsement of this document are the Society of NeuroInterventional Surgery, the American Academy of Neurology, the American Association of Neurological Surgeons/Congress of Neurological Surgeons Cerebrovascular Section, and the Society of Vascular &amp; Interventional Neurology.
Although recent efforts to advance the treatment of gliomas through radiotherapy and chemotherapy may seem to be a relatively new area of growth and development, these efforts have been in progress since the therapeutic potential of radiation therapy was discovered in the late 19th century. Cushing's use of brachytherapy has been mentioned several times in the literature without receiving an appropriate in-depth analysis. The reasoning behind Cushing's initial use of brachytherapy was not fully examined, and a close analysis of the outcomes of this therapy was not made. In addition, Cushing's use of his &quot;radium bomb&quot; occurred more commonly than the 3 cases previously documented. The authors reviewed all the patient records available at the Cushing Brain Tumor Registry--which represents the most complete series of patient records from the Cushing era--and selected those patients who underwent treatment with Cushing's &quot;radium bomb.&quot; The authors place these early attempts to optimize interstitial radiation of brain tumors in their historical perspective.


INTRODUCTION: Preoccupation with drug and drug-related items is a typical characteristic of cocaine addicted individuals. It has been shown in multiple accounts that prolonged drug use has a profound effect on the EEG recordings of drug addicts when compared to controls during cue reactivity tests. Cue reactivity refers to a phenomenon in which individuals with a history of drug abuse exhibit excessive psychophysiological responses to cues associated with their drug of choice. One of the aims of this pilot study was to determine the presence of an attentional bias to preferentially process drug-related cues using evoked and induced gamma reactivity measures in cocaine addicts before and after biobehavioral treatment based on neurofeedback. Another aim was to show that central SMR amplitude increase and frontal theta control is possible in an experimental outpatient drug users group over 12 neurofeedback sessions. METHOD: Ten current cocaine abusers participated in this pilot research study using neurofeedback combined with Motivational Interviewing sessions. Eight of them completed all planned pre- and post -neurofeedback cue reactivity tests with event-related EEG recording and clinical evaluations. Cue reactivity test represented a visual oddball task with images from the International Affective Picture System and drug-related pictures. Evoked and induced gamma responses to target and non-target drug cues were analyzed using wavelet analysis. RESULTS: Outpatient subjects with cocaine addiction completed the biobehavioral intervention and successfully increased SMR while keeping theta practically unchanged in 12 sessions of neurofeedback training. The addition of Motivational Interviewing helped retain patients in the study. Clinical evaluations immediately after completion of the treatment showed decreased self-reports on depression and stress scores, and urine tests collaborated reports of decreased use of cocaine and marijuana. Effects of neurofeedback resulted in a lower EEG gamma reactivity to drug-related images in a post-neurofeedback cue reactivity test. In particular, evoked gamma showed decreases in power to non-target and to a lesser extent target drug-related cues at all topographies (left, right, frontal, parietal, medial, inferior); while induced gamma power decreased globally to both target and non-target drug cues. Our findings supported our hypothesis that gamma band cue reactivity measures are sufficiently sensitive functional outcomes of neurofeedback treatment. Both evoked and induced gamma measures were found capable to detect changes in responsiveness to both target and non-target drug cues. CONCLUSION: Our study emphasizes the utility of cognitive neuroscience methods based on EEG gamma band measures for the assessment of the functional outcomes of neurofeedback-based biobehavioral interventions for cocaine use disorders. This approach may have significant potential for identifying both physiological and clinical markers of treatment progress. The results confirmed our prediction that EEG changes achieved with neurofeedback training will be accompanied by positive EEG outcomes in a cue reactivity and clinical improvements.
The purpose of this project was to evaluate the preclinical efficacy of pyridoxine, or vitamin B(6). Rats received a 3.0 mm unilateral controlled cortical impact (CCI) injury of the sensorimotor cortex or sham surgery. Treatment with vitamin B(6) (600 or 300 mg/kg IP) or vehicle was administered at 30 min and 24 h post-CCI. Somatosensory dysfunction was evaluated with the vibrissae-forelimb placing and bilateral tactile adhesive removal tests. Sensorimotor dysfunction was evaluated with the locomotor placing and the forelimb asymmetry tests. On the forelimb asymmetry test both treatment groups displayed no asymmetry bias on any of the testing days post-CCI and were statistically no different than the shams. Both vitamin B(6) groups displayed a significant improvement in behavioral performance on the locomotor placing test compared to the vehicle-treated group. Administration of 600 mg/kg also significantly reduced tactile adhesive removal latencies on days 2, 4, 6, and 12 post-CCI. Both treatment groups were improved in their rate of recovery post-CCI on the vibrissae-forelimb placing test, but only the recovery seen in the 600-mg/kg group was significantly improved compared to vehicle. Finally, the 600-mg/kg dose resulted in significant cortical sparing compared to the vehicle-treated group. In general, the effects of vitamin B(6) on recovery of function were dose-dependent, with the 600-mg/kg dose consistently showing greater recovery than the 300-mg/kg dose. More experimental analyses are warranted to evaluate the potential preclinical efficacy and mechanistic action of vitamin B(6).
Use of methamphetamine is increasingly a significant factor for the spread of human immunodeficiency virus type 1, for in certain populations, there is a convergence of methamphetamine abuse with human immunodeficiency virus type 1 infection. Methamphetamine and human immunodeficiency virus type 1 are both individually neuropathogenic, and the neuropathology caused by these two agents occurs in overlapping brain regions. However, the biological interaction of methamphetamine with lentiviruses remains unknown. Here, we investigate the effects of simultaneous exposure of these two agents on disease progression using the feline immunodeficiency virus model. The study models the bingeing methamphetamine user with sequential and repeated episodes of use, which were interrupted by periods of abstinence. Methamphetamine exposure significantly accelerated and enhanced the severity of the feline immunodeficiency virus model-induced central nervous system functional pathology, as measured in delays in brainstem auditory evoked potentials. Reciprocally, feline immunodeficiency virus enhanced the severity of the methamphetamine-induced effects on brain monoamine neurotransmitter and dopamine transporter levels. The results of this study indicate that a dual potentiation occurred. That is, methamphetamine enhanced feline immunodeficiency virus model-induced central nervous system disease and feline immunodeficiency virus model enhanced the toxic effects of methamphetamine, heralding a significant concern for those individuals that are exposed to both agents.

In 4 experiments anxious uncertainty threats caused reactive approach motivation (RAM). In Studies 1 and 2, academic anxious uncertainty threats caused RAM as assessed by behavioral neuroscience and implicit measures of approach motivation. In Study 3 the effect of a relational anxious uncertainty threat on approach-motivated personal projects in participants' everyday lives was mediated by the idealism of those projects. In Study 4 the effect of a different relational anxious uncertainty threat on implicit approach motivation was heightened by manipulated salience of personal ideals. Results suggest a RAM account for idealistic and ideological reactions in the threat and defense literature. Speculative implications are suggested for understanding diverse social and clinical phenomena ranging from worldview defense, prejudice, and meaning making to narcissism, hypomania, and aggression.
PF-3084014 [(S)-2-((S)-5,7-difluoro-1,2,3,4-tetrahydronaphthalen-3-ylamino)-N-(1-(2-methyl-1-(neopentylamino)propan-2-yl)-1H-imidazol-4-yl)pentanamide] is a novel gamma-secretase inhibitor that reduces amyloid-beta (Abeta) production with an in vitro IC(50) of 1.2 nM (whole-cell assay) to 6.2 nM (cell-free assay). This compound inhibits Notch-related T- and B-cell maturation in an in vitro thymocyte assay with an EC(50) of 2.1 microM. A single acute dose showed dose-dependent reduction in brain, cerebrospinal fluid (CSF), and plasma Abeta in Tg2576 mice as measured by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay and immunoprecipitation (IP)/mass spectrometry (MS). Guinea pigs were dosed with PF-3084014 for 5 days via osmotic minipump at 0.03 to 3 mg/kg/day and exhibited dose-dependent reduction in brain, CSF, and plasma Abeta. To further characterize Abeta dynamics in brain, CSF, and plasma in relation to drug exposure and Notch-related toxicities, guinea pigs were dosed with 0.03 to 10 mg/kg PF-3084014, and tissues were collected at regular intervals from 0.75 to 30 h after dose. Brain, CSF, and plasma all exhibited dose-dependent reductions in Abeta, and the magnitude and duration of Abeta lowering exceeded those of the reductions in B-cell endpoints. Other gamma-secretase inhibitors have shown high potency at elevating Abeta in the conditioned media of whole cells and the plasma of multiple animal models and humans. Such potentiation was not observed with PF-3084014. IP/MS analysis, however, revealed dose-dependent increases in Abeta11-40 and Abeta1-43 at doses that potently inhibited Abeta1-40 and Abeta1-42. PF-3084014, like previously described gamma-secretase inhibitors, preferentially reduced Abeta1-40 relative to Abeta1-42. Potency at Abeta relative to Notch-related endpoints in vitro and in vivo suggests that a therapeutic index can be achieved with this compound.
Prenatal ethanol exposure causes deficits in hippocampal synaptic plasticity and learning. At present, there are no clinically effective pharmacotherapeutic interventions for these deficits. In this study, we examined whether the cognition-enhancing agent 4-(2-{2-[(2R)-2-methylpyrrolidinyl]ethyl}-benzofuran-5-yl) benzonitrile (ABT-239), a histamine H(3) receptor antagonist, could ameliorate fetal ethanol-induced long-term potentiation (LTP) deficits. Long-Evans rat dams consumed a mean of 2.82 g/kg ethanol during a 4-h period each day. This voluntary drinking pattern produced a mean peak serum ethanol level of 84 mg/dl. Maternal weight gain, offspring litter size, and birth weights were not different between ethanol-consuming and control groups. A stimulating electrode was implanted in the entorhinal cortical perforant path, and a recording electrode was implanted in the dorsal dentate gyrus of urethane-anesthetized adult male offspring. Baseline input/output responses were not affected either by prenatal ethanol exposure or by 1 mg/kg ABT-239 administered 2 h before data collection. No differences were observed between prenatal treatment groups when a 10-tetanus train protocol was used to elicit LTP. However, LTP elicited by 3 tetanizing trains was markedly impaired by prenatal ethanol exposure compared with control. This fetal ethanol-induced LTP deficit was reversed by ABT-239. In contrast, ABT-239 did not enhance LTP in control offspring using the 3-tetanus train protocol. These results suggest that histamine H(3) receptor antagonists may have utility for treating fetal ethanol-associated synaptic plasticity and learning deficits. Furthermore, the differential effect of ABT-239 in fetal alcohol offspring compared with controls raises questions about the impact of fetal ethanol exposure on histaminergic modulation of excitatory neurotransmission in affected offspring.
This study investigated the excitability and accommodative properties of low-threshold human motor axons to test whether these motor axons have greater expression of the persistent Na(+) conductance, I(NaP). Computer-controlled threshold tracking was used to study 22 single motor units and the data were compared with compound motor potentials of various amplitudes recorded in the same experimental session. Detailed comparisons were made between the single units and compound potentials that were 40% or 5% of maximal amplitude, the former because this is the compound potential size used in most threshold tracking studies of axonal excitability, the latter because this is the compound potential most likely to be composed entirely of motor axons with low thresholds to electrical recruitment. Measurements were made of the strength-duration relationship, threshold electrotonus, current-voltage relationship, recovery cycle and latent addition. The findings did not support a difference in I(NaP). Instead they pointed to greater activity of the hyperpolarization-activated inwardly rectifying current (I(h)) as the basis for low threshold to electrical recruitment in human motor axons. Computer modelling confirmed this finding, with a doubling of the hyperpolarization-activated conductance proving the best single parameter adjustment to fit the experimental data. We suggest that the hyperpolarization-activated cyclic nucleotide-gated (HCN) channel(s) expressed on human motor axons may be active at rest and contribute to resting membrane potential.
Gap junction-mediated electrical synapses interconnect diverse types of neurons in the mammalian brain, and they may play important roles in the synchronization and development of neural circuits. Thalamic relay neurons are the major source of input to neocortex. Electrical synapses have not been directly observed between relay neurons in either developing or adult animals. We tested for electrical synapses by recording from pairs of relay neurons in acute slices of developing ventrobasal nucleus (VBN) of the thalamus from rats and mice. Electrical synapses were common between VBN relay neurons during the first postnatal week, and then declined sharply during the second week. Electrical coupling was reduced among cells of connexin36 (Cx36) knockout mice; however, some neuron pairs remained coupled. This implies that electrical synapses between the majority of coupled VBN neurons require Cx36 but that other gap junction proteins also contribute. The anatomical distribution of a beta-galactosidase reporter indicated that Cx36 was expressed in some VBN neurons during the first postnatal week and sharply declined over the second week, consistent with our physiological results. VBN relay neurons also communicated via chemical synapses. Rare pairs of relay neurons excited one another monosynaptically. Much more commonly, spikes in one relay neuron evoked disynaptic inhibition (via the thalamic reticular nucleus) in the same or a neighbouring relay neuron. Disynaptic inhibition between VBN cells emerged as electrical coupling was decreasing, during the second postnatal week. Our results demonstrate that thalamic relay neurons communicate primarily via electrical synapses during early postnatal development, and then lose their electrical coupling as a chemical synapse-mediated inhibitory circuit matures.
Vestibular schwannomas are not uncommon, and gamma knife radiosurgery is one of the treatment options for symptomatic tumors. Hydrocephalus is a complication of gamma knife treatment of vestibular schwannoma, though the mechanism of the development of hydrocephalus remains controversial. We present an unusual case of normal pressure hydrocephalus (NPH) after gamma knife radiosurgery of a vestibular schwannoma in which the timeline of events strongly suggests that gamma knife played a contributory role in the development of the hydrocephalus. This is probably the first case of NPH post radiosurgery with normal cerebrospinal fluid protein. Communicating hydrocephalus should be treated with placement of shunt while non-communicating hydrocephalus can be treated with third ventriculostomy. Frequent monitoring and early intervention post radiosurgery is highly recommended to prevent irreversible cerebral damage.
The goal of my research is to gain insight using rodent models into the fundamental molecular, cellular and systems that make up the base of memory formation. My work focuses on fear memories. Aberrant fear and/or anxiety may be at the heart of many psychiatric disorders. In this article, I review the results of my research group; these results show that particular neurons in the lateral amygdala, a brain region important for fear, are specifically involved in particular fear memories. We started by showing that the transcription factor CREB (cAMP/Ca(2+) response element binding protein) plays a key role in the formation of fear memories. Next, we used viral vectors to overexpress CREB in a subset of lateral amygdala neurons. This not only facilitated fear memory formation but also &quot;drove&quot; the memory into the neurons with relatively increased CREB function. Finally, we showed that selective ablation of the neurons overexpressing CREB in the lateral amygdala selectively erased the fear memory. These findings are the first to show disruption of a specific memory by disrupting select neurons within a distributed network.

In a chart review at a psychiatric out-patient department, latitude 59.3 degrees N, a sample of patients with tests of serum 25-hydroxy-vitamin D (25-OHD) and plasma intact parathyroid hormone (iPTH) was collected, together with demographic data and psychiatric diagnoses. During 19 months, 117 patients were included. Their median 25-OHD was 45 nmol/l; considerably lower than published reports on Swedish healthy populations. Only 14.5% had recommended levels (over 75). In 56.4%, 25-OHD was under 50 nmol/l, which is related to several unfavourable health outcomes. Seasonal variation of 25-OHD was blunted. Patients with ADHD had unexpectedly low iPTH levels. Middle East, South-East Asian or African ethnic origin, being a young male and having a diagnosis of autism spectrum disorder or schizophrenia predicted low 25-OHD levels. Hence, the diagnoses that have been hypothetically linked to developmental (prenatal) vitamin D deficiency, schizophrenia and autism, had the lowest 25-OHD levels in this adult sample, supporting the notion that vitamin D deficiency may not only be a predisposing developmental factor but also relate to the adult patients' psychiatric state. This is further supported by the considerable psychiatric improvement that coincided with vitamin D treatment in some of the patients whose deficiency was treated.
Vitamin D is a potent immune modulator in multiple sclerosis (MS), but was primarily identified for its effects on calcium homeostasis. It is uncertain whether these calcaemic functions of vitamin D are critically involved in its immune modulating potential. We earlier reported a correlation between serum 25-hydroxyvitamin D (25(OH)D) levels and regulatory T cell (Treg) function. In the present study, the correlation of serum levels of 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D (1,25(OH)2D), intact parathyroid hormone (PTH), and total calcium with Treg number and functionality and the proportions of other T helper cell subsets was assessed in 29 relapsing remitting MS patients. In contrast to serum 25(OH)D levels, serum concentrations of neither 1,25(OH)2D, nor PTH and total calcium correlated significantly with Treg function or Th1/Th2 ratio. None of the parameters correlated with the relative and absolute number of Tregs. Interestingly, the serum levels of 1,25(OH)2D correlated positively with the proportion of T helper type 17 (Th17) cells. These results suggest that the serum levels of 1,25(OH)2D, PTH, and total calcium are not critically involved in the correlation between vitamin D status and T cell regulation.



Most stereoscopic displays present images at a single focal plane, resulting in &quot;conflicts&quot; between the stimuli to vergence and accommodation. Minimizing these conflicts is beneficial because they can cause distorted depth percepts, visual fatigue, and reduced stereoscopic performance. One proposed solution is to present a sum of images at multiple focal planes and to vary focal depth continuously by distributing image intensity across planes-a technique referred to as depth filtering. We evaluated this digital approximation to real-world variations in focal depth by measuring accommodation responses to depth-filtered stimuli at various simulated distances. Specifically, we determined the maximum image-plane separation that supported accurate and reliable accommodation. We used an analysis of retinal-image formation to predict when responses might be inaccurate. Accommodation to depth-filtered images was accurate and precise for image-plane separations up to 1 diopter, suggesting that depth filtering can be used to precisely match accommodation and vergence demands in a practical display. At larger plane separations, responses broke down in a manner consistent with our analysis. We develop this approach to consider how different spatial frequencies contribute to accommodation control. The results suggest that higher spatial frequencies contribute less to the accommodation response than has previously been thought.
The spatially uniform mislocalization of stimuli flashed around the onset of fast eye-movements (perisaccadic shift) has previously been explained by an inaccurate internal representation of current eye position. However, this hypothesis does not account for the observation that continuously presented stimuli are correctly localized during saccades. Here we show that the two findings are not mutually exclusive. The novelty of our approach lies in our interpretation of the extraretinal signal which, in contrast to other models, is not considered an (erroneous) estimate of current eye-position. Based on the reafference principle, our model assumes that the extraretinal signal is optimal in that it accurately predicts the neural representation of the retinal position of a continuously present stimulus. Perisaccadic shift arises as a consequence of maintaining stable perisaccadic position estimates for continuously present stimuli under the physiologically plausible assumption of temporal low-pass filtering in the afferent visual pathway. Consequently, our model reconciles the reafference principle with the finding of perisaccadic shift.
The perceived direction of motion of a brief visual stimulus that contains fine features reverses if static coarser features are added to it. Here we show that the reversal in perceived direction disappears if the stimulus is reduced in size from 2.8 deg to 0.35 deg radius. We show that for a stimulus with 1.4 deg radius, the reversals occur when the ratio between the contrast of the fine features and of the coarser features is higher than 0.8 and lower than 4. For stimulus with 0.35 deg radius, the reversals never appear for any contrast ratio. We also show that if the stimulus is presented within an annular window with small radius, errors disappear but they return if the radius is increased to 2 deg. The errors in motion discrimination described here can be explained by a model of motion sensing in which the signals from fine-scale and coarse-scale sensors are subtracted from one another (I. Serrano-Pedraza, P. Goddard, &amp; A. M. Derrington, 2007). The model produces errors in direction when the signals in the fine and coarse sensors are approximately balanced. The errors disappear when stimulus size is reduced because the reduction in size differentially reduces the response of the low spatial frequency motion sensors.
Stereo vision is an area in which we are increasingly able to construct detailed numerical models of the computations carried out by cerebral cortex. Piecewise-frontoparallel cross-correlation is one such model, closely based on the known physiology and able to explain important aspects of human stereo depth perception. Here, we show that it predicts important differences in the ability to detect disparity gratings with square-wave vs. sine-wave profiles. In particular, the model can detect square-wave gratings up to much higher disparity amplitudes than sine-wave gratings. We test this prediction in human subjects and find that it is not borne out. Rather there seems to be little or no difference between the detectability of square- and sine-wave disparity gratings for human subjects. We conclude that the model needs further refinement in order to capture this aspect of human stereo vision.
Some 12% of women are carriers of the mild, X-linked forms of color vision deficiencies called &quot;anomalous trichromacy.&quot; Owing to random X chromosome inactivation, their retinae must contain four classes of cone rather than the normal three; and it has previously been speculated that these female carriers might be tetrachromatic, capable of discriminating spectral stimuli that are indistinguishable to the normal trichromat. However, the existing evidence is sparse and inconclusive. Here, we address the question using (a) a forced-choice version of the Rayleigh test, (b) a test using multidimensional scaling to reveal directly the dimensionality of the participants' color space, and (c) molecular genetic analyses to estimate the X-linked cone peak sensitivities of a selected sample of strong candidates for tetrachromacy. Our results suggest that most carriers of color anomaly do not exhibit four-dimensional color vision, and so we believe that anomalous trichromacy is unlikely to be maintained by an advantage to the carriers in discriminating colors. However, 1 of 24 obligate carriers of deuteranomaly exhibited tetrachromatic behavior on all our tests; this participant has three well-separated cone photopigments in the long-wave spectral region in addition to her short-wave cone. We assess the likelihood that behavioral tetrachromacy exists in the human population.
Little is known about the way in which the outputs of early orientation-selective neurons are combined. One particular problem is that the number of possible combinations of these outputs greatly outweighs the number of processing units available to represent them. Here we consider two of the possible ways in which the visual system might reduce the impact of this problem. First, the visual system might ameliorate the problem by collapsing across some low-level feature coded by previous processing stages, such as spatial frequency. Second, the visual system may combine only a subset of available outputs, such as those with similar receptive field characteristics. Using plaid-selective contrast adaptation and the curvature aftereffect, we found no evidence for the former solution; both aftereffects were clearly tuned to the spatial frequency of the adaptor relative to the test probe. We did, however, find evidence for the latter with both aftereffects; when the components forming our compound stimuli were dissimilar in spatial frequency, the effects of adapting to them were substantially reduced. This has important implications for mid-level visual processing, both for the combinatorial explosion and for the selective &quot;binding&quot; of common features that are perceived as coming from a single visual object.
In animal models, devices such as indwelling catheters and intracranial cannulae are often fixed on the skull to allow sampling or injection in the freely moving animal. The most commonly used method to fixate these devices is by embedding them in a 'helmet' of cement which is fixed to the skull with screws. Methylmethacrylate cement is commonly used for this purpose. The disadvantages of this cement are the high polymerization temperature, poor bonding to the bone and long hardening time. We have evaluated the use of glass ionomer cement, carboxylat cement and cyanoacrylic glue as alternative for methylmethacrylate cement. Temperature increase during polymerization of methylmethacrylate cement and glass ionomer cement was measured in the cement on the skull and in the brain of 14 rats in an acute model. In a chronic model, 52 rats and 91 mice were equipped with a 'helmet' of one of the cements. The glass ionomer 'helmets' were applied without or with pretreatment of the skull. The attachment of the cement to the skull was checked every day. After four weeks the bonding strengths of the cements were measured. The glass ionomer cement had less temperature increase during polymerization and good bonding capabilities when compared with methylmethacrylate cement. Mechanical pretreatment of the skull resulted in a significant increase in bonding strength of glass ionomer cement in mice and rats as compared with chemical pretreatment. Furthermore, glass ionomer cement had a shorter hardening time than methylmethacrylate cement, and when the glass ionomer cement was used in prepacked capsules, it was possible to apply the cement sterilely and easily. Cyanoacrylic glue had good bonding capabilities to the skull of mice and is also a good substitute for methylmethacrylate cement.
In the conventional shuttle box, animals are trained to avoid electric foot-shocks. As a consequence of these stress-inducing foot-shocks the animals become anxious and are difficult to train. The aim of the present study was to avoid the stress-inducing foot-shocks and to develop a fast and reliable conditioned avoidance behaviour task for guineapigs. We examined whether narrowband noises at four different sound levels above hearing threshold could be used as conditioned stimulus (CS). The unconditioned stimulus (UCS) was a stream of air, which was used instead of the conventionally used electric foot-shocks. The animals were initially trained with a CS of 78 dB sound pressure level (SPL). In this initial training, guineapigs learned to detect a narrowband noise of 78 dB SPL. Interestingly, during the first additional training session in which three other sound levels were applied, guineapigs did not immediately generalize the learned response at 78 dB SPL to lower sound levels of 58 and 68 dB SPL. However, in this session a noise level of 88 dB SPL led immediately to a high level of responses. The response latency decreased with increasing sound level, from approximately 7 s at 58 dB SPL to approximately 3 s at 88 dB SPL. The escape latency during the UCS was approximately 0.6 s. The present results demonstrate that after reducing the level of stress guineapigs can acquire a response in only a few sessions and furthermore, although the guineapigs were less anxious, training at sound levels of 78 and 88 dB SPL was influenced by an aversive reaction by the guineapig. The results indicate that this aversive reaction of the guineapig is crucial for the training.


Treatment-emergent peripheral neuropathy (PN) is an important dose-limiting toxicity during treatment of multiple myeloma (MM). Bortezomib-induced PN (BIPN) occurred in 37-44% of clinical trial patients with MM, with the cumulative treatment dose as its single most significant predictor. This review discusses the clinical profile of BIPN in the treatment of MM and guidelines for its management. Lower rates of BIPN observed during treatment of solid tumors compared with rates of hematologic cancers are also discussed. Several areas of research are reviewed that may improve the management of BIPN, including co-therapies with the novel heat shock protein inhibitor tanespimycin, which appears to reduce the incidence of BIPN, and recent studies with second-generation proteasome inhibitors such as carfilzomib and NPI-0052. Adherence to the National Cancer Institute dose-modification algorithm is the most effective method for mitigating BIPN. Reversal of BIPN after treatment cessation occurs in most cases, but recovery in some patients takes as long as 1.7 years, and some individuals fail to return to baseline neurologic function. BIPN can cause a significant reduction in quality of life, primarily due to severe treatment-emergent pain. Ongoing research may provide additional information about the mechanism of BIPN and strategies to reduce PN.
The aim of the study was to determine the effect of early tumor growth on T(2) relaxation times in an experimental glioma model. A 9.4-T magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) system was used for the investigations. An animal model (n=12) of glioma was established using an intracranial inoculation of U87MGdEGFRvIII cells. The imaging studies were performed from Day 10 through Day 13 following tumor inoculation. Tumor blood vessel density was determined using quantitative immunochemistry. Tumor volume was measured daily using MR images. T(2) values of the tumor were measured in five areas across the tumor and calculated using a single exponential fitting of the echo train. The measurements on Days 10 and 13 after tumor inoculation showed a 20% increase in T(2). The changes in T(2) correlated with the size of the tumor. Statistically significant differences in T(2) values were observed between the edge of the tumor and the brain tissue on Days 11, 12 and 13 (P=.014, .008, .001, respectively), but not on Day 10 (P=.364). The results show that T(2)-weighted MRI may not detect glioma during an early phase of growth. T(2) increases in growing glioma and varies heterogenously across the tumor.
A new open-source software project is presented, JEMRIS, the Jlich Extensible MRI Simulator, which provides an MRI sequence development and simulation environment for the MRI community. The development was driven by the desire to achieve generality of simulated three-dimensional MRI experiments reflecting modern MRI systems hardware. The accompanying computational burden is overcome by means of parallel computing. Many aspects are covered that have not hitherto been simultaneously investigated in general MRI simulations such as parallel transmit and receive, important off-resonance effects, nonlinear gradients, and arbitrary spatiotemporal parameter variations at different levels. The latter can be used to simulate various types of motion, for instance. The JEMRIS user interface is very simple to use, but nevertheless it presents few limitations. MRI sequences with arbitrary waveforms and complex interdependent modules are modeled in a graphical user interface-based environment requiring no further programming. This manuscript describes the concepts, methods, and performance of the software. Examples of novel simulation results in active fields of MRI research are given.

Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is a devastating neurodegenerative disorder that affects the aging population. A progressive loss of motor neurons in the spinal cord and brain leads to muscle paralysis and death. As in other common neurodegenerative diseases, aging-related mitochondrial dysfunction is increasingly being considered among the pathogenic factors. Mitochondria are critical for cell survival: they provide energy to the cell, buffer intracellular calcium, and regulate apoptotic cell death. Whether mitochondrial abnormalities are a trigger or a consequence of the neurodegenerative process and the mechanisms whereby mitochondrial dysfunction contributes to disease are not clear yet. Calcium homeostasis is a major function of mitochondria in neurons, and there is ample evidence that intracellular calcium is dysregulated in ALS. The impact of mitochondrial dysfunction on intracellular calcium homeostasis and its role in motor neuron demise are intriguing issues that warrants in depth discussion. Clearly, unraveling the causal relationship between mitochondrial dysfunction, calcium dysregulation, and neuronal death is critical for the understanding of ALS pathogenesis. In this review, we will outline the current knowledge of various aspects of mitochondrial dysfunction in ALS, with a special emphasis on the role of these abnormalities on intracellular calcium handling.
The smile on Mona Lisa's face remains enigmatous and a topic of much discussion in art circle over the centuries. In this essay the author proposes a new principle of art neuroscience or the science of aesthetics namely 'dynamism' which artists often employ to impart an illusion of movement in their art works which are essentially static. This illusion is possibly generated through imaginative thinking which involves frontal cortical activation in the viewer's brain coupled with activation of the motion area (area V5/MT) of the viewer's visual cortex. It is suggested that this principle of dynamism is somewhat different from the previously described concept of kinetic art. The author hypothesizes that the great painter Leonardo da Vinci very intelligently painted the angles of the mouth of Mona Lisa's face to evoke this illusion of movement (smile) to increase the aesthetic value of this great work of art.

Epidemiological and clinic data support the notion that some women may be at higher risk for developing mood and anxiety symptoms and cognitive complaints during certain periods in life that are marked by intense hormone variations and psychosocial stressors. The complexity of the so-called windows of vulnerability poses a particular challenge to professionals involved in the care of female patients. Menopausal transition is perhaps a paramount example; the process itself is marked by progressive, dynamic changes in hormone levels and reproductive function that interact with the aging process, changes in metabolism, sexuality, lifestyle behaviors, and overall health.The putative compounded burden of health challenges associated with this transition has become a main focus of attention of physicians and researchers who aim to identify preventive and/or early intervention strategies to promote healthy aging in midlife women. Recent studies have provided further evidence that the menopausal transition may be not only a window of vulnerability for depression and cognitive impairment but also a critical &quot;window of opportunity&quot; for the success of hormone-based treatments.The need for further investigation and better understanding of common underlying mechanisms seems intuitive. An ultimate goal could include preventive strategies for women presenting with various risk factors for cardiovascular, cognitive, and mood disorders as well as treatments that could be tailored to multiple symptom domains during the menopausal transition.

Toxoplasma gondii is a ubiquitous intracellular parasite which chronically infects 30-50% of the human population. While acquired infection is primarily asymptomatic several studies have suggested that such infections may contribute to neurological and psychiatric symptoms. Previous studies in rodents have demonstrated that T. gondii infection does not just kill its host, but alters the behavioral repertoire of an infected animal, making it more likely that predation with occur completing the parasite life cycle. The aim of the present study was to evaluate the behavioral changes in C57BL/6 mice chronically infected with the avirulent T. gondii (ME49, a Type II strain), in a comprehensive test battery. Infected mice demonstrated profound and widespread brain pathology, motor coordination and sensory deficits. In contrast, cognitive function, anxiety levels, social behavior and the motivation to explore novel objects were normal. The observed changes in behavior did not represent &quot;gross&quot; brain damage or dysfunction and were not due to targeted destruction of specific areas of the brain. Such changes point out the subtle interaction of this parasite with its intermediate hosts and are consistent with ideas about increased predation being an outcome of infection.
The very existence of higher metazoans depends on the vectorial transport of substances across epithelia. A crucial element of this transport is the membrane enzyme Na(+),K(+)-ATPase. Not only is this enzyme distributed in a polarized manner in a restricted domain of the plasma membrane but also it creates the ionic gradients that drive the net movement of glucose, amino acids, and ions across the entire epithelium. In a previous work, we have shown that Na(+),K(+)-ATPase polarity depends on interactions between the beta subunits of Na(+),K(+)-ATPases located on neighboring cells and that these interactions anchor the entire enzyme at the borders of the intercellular space. In the present study, we used fluorescence resonance energy transfer and coprecipitation methods to demonstrate that these beta subunits have sufficient proximity and affinity to permit a direct interaction, without requiring any additional extracellular molecules to span the distance.
The frequency sensitivity of auditory hair cells in the inner ear varies with their longitudinal position in the sensory epithelium. Among the factors that determine the differential cellular response to sound is the resonance of a hair cell's transmembrane electrical potential, whose frequency correlates with the kinetic properties of the high-conductance Ca(2+)-activated K(+) (BK) channels encoded by a Slo (kcnma1) gene. It has been proposed that the inclusion of specific alternative axons in the Slo transcripts along the cochlea underlies the gradient of BK-channel kinetics. By analyzing the complete sequences of chicken Slo gene (cSlo) cDNAs from the chicken's cochlea, we show that most transcripts lack alternative exons. Transcripts with more than one alternative exon constitute only 10% of the total. Although the fraction of transcripts containing alternative exons increases from the cochlear base to the apex, the combination of alternative exons is not regulated. There is also a clear increase in the expression of BK transcripts with long carboxyl termini toward the apex. When long and short BK transcripts are expressed in HEK-293 cells, the kinetics of single-channel currents differ only slightly, but they are substantially slowed when the channels are coexpressed with the auxiliary beta subunit that occurs more widely at the apex. These results argue that the tonotopic gradient is not established by the selective inclusion of highly specific cSlo exons. Instead, a gradient in the expression of beta subunits slows BK channels toward the low-frequency apex of the cochlea.
Administration of certain serotonin-releasing amphetamine derivatives (fenfluramine and/or 3,4-methylenedioxymethamphetamine, MDMA, 'ecstasy') results in dystrophic serotonergic morphology in the mammalian brain. In addition to drug administration, dystrophic serotonergic neurites are also associated with neurodegenerative disorders. We demonstrate here that endogenously elevated serotonin in the Drosophila CNS induces aberrant enlarged varicosities, or spheroids, that are morphologically similar to dystrophic mammalian serotonergic fibers. In Drosophila these spheroids are specific to serotonergic neurons, distinct from typical varicosities, and form only after prolonged increases in cytoplasmic serotonin. Our results also suggest that serotonin levels during early development determine later sensitivity of spheroid formation to manipulations of the serotonin transporter (SERT). Elevated serotonin also interacts with canonical protein aggregation and autophagic pathways to form spheroids. The data presented here support a model in which excess cytoplasmic neurotransmitter triggers a cell-specific pathway inducing aberrant morphology in fly serotonergic neurons that may be shared in certain mammalian pathologies.
The basic helix-loop-helix transcription factor Ascl1 plays a critical role in the intrinsic genetic program responsible for neuronal differentiation. Here, we describe a novel model system of P19 embryonic carcinoma cells with doxycycline-inducible expression of Ascl1. Microarray hybridization and real-time PCR showed that these cells demonstrated increased expression of many neuronal proteins in a time- and concentration-dependent manner. Interestingly, the gene encoding the cell cycle regulator Gadd45gamma was increased earliest and to the greatest extent following Ascl1 induction. Here, we provide the first evidence identifying Gadd45gamma as a direct transcriptional target of Ascl1. Transactivation and chromatin immunoprecipitation assays identified two E-box consensus sites within the Gadd45gamma promoter necessary for Ascl1 regulation, and demonstrated that Ascl1 is bound to this region within the Gadd45gamma promoter. Furthermore, we found that overexpression of Gadd45gamma itself is sufficient to initiate some aspects of neuronal differentiation independent of Ascl1.

We analyzed serial dependencies in periods and asynchronies collected during oscillations performed in synchrony with a metronome. Results showed that asynchronies contain 1/f fluctuations, and the series of periods contain antipersistent dependence. The analysis of the phase portrait revealed a specific asymmetry induced by synchronization. We propose a hybrid limit cycle model including a cycle-dependent stiffness parameter provided with fractal properties, and a parametric driving function based on velocity. This model accounts for most experimentally evidenced statistical features, including serial dependence and limit cycle dynamics. We discuss the results and modeling choices within the framework of event-based and emergent timing.
Multiple sclerosis patients without cerebrospinal fluid oligoclonal IgG bands have been proposed to constitute an immunogenetically distinct subgroup of multiple sclerosis that may also differ in terms of prognosis. A proportion of patients with multiple sclerosis receiving IFNbeta develop neutralizing antibodies, which interfere with treatment efficacy. Evidence suggests that the likelihood of developing neutralizing antibodies is partly genetically determined. Here, we hypothesized that absence of oligoclonal IgG bands reflects a property of B-cell responses in oligoclonal IgG band-negative patients characterized by a lessened propensity to develop neutralizing antibodies. We aimed to compare the development of neutralizing antibodies against IFNbeta between oligoclonal IgG band-negative and oligoclonal IgG band-positive multiple sclerosis patients. Treatment, oligoclonal IgG band and neutralizing antibody information was obtained for 2219 patients from the Swedish multiple sclerosis registry and the Swedish neutralizing antibody registry. Additional data on genotype was available for 532 patients. A correlation was found between oligoclonal IgG band negativity and neutralizing antibody negativity (p = 0.02). This difference was confined to neutralizing antibodies against IFNbeta-1a, since oligoclonal IgG band-negative patients were, to a lesser extent, neutralizing antibody positive compared with oligoclonal IgG band-positive patients if treated with IFNbeta-1a (12% vs. 23%; p = 0.005). No difference was observed for IFNbeta-1b-treated patients (44% vs. 46%). We propose that oligoclonal IgG band-negative patients differ immunologically from oligoclonal IgG band-positive patients, potentially influenced by distinct HLA-DRB1 alleles.
The successful discovery of genes that cause rare monogenic disorders has dominated our understanding of the genetic basis of neurodegenerative disease. The emergence of robust genome-wide association methodologies promises to explain the genetic etiology of the common sporadic forms of complex diseases. In addition to revealing the genetic susceptibility of neurodegenerative disease, genome-wide association studies (GWASs) should also be an unbiased generator of molecules that are relevant in disease pathogenesis. Despite this exciting potential, GWAS results have varied in their consistency and their ability to deliver these aims. The largest challenge that faces neuroscientists is the interpretation of the results of GWASs and the translation of the genetic findings into functional mechanisms that are biologically important in disease pathogenesis and, ultimately, treatment design. We examine recent results from GWASs of Alzheimer's disease and Parkinson's disease and explore their use and limitations. We further reflect on how these results may expedite progress in understanding and influencing the molecular pathogenesis of neurodegeneration.
Cell type-specific green fluorescent protein (GFP) expression in the retina has been achieved in an expanding repertoire of transgenic mouse lines, which are valuable tools for dissecting the retinal circuitry. However, measuring light responses from GFP-labeled cells is challenging because single-photon excitation of GFP easily bleaches photoreceptors. To circumvent this problem, we use two-photon excitation at 920 nm to target GFP-expressing cells, followed by electrophysiological recording of light responses using conventional infrared optics. This protocol offers fast and sensitive detection of GFP while preserving the light sensitivity of the retina, and can be used to obtain light responses and the detailed morphology of a GFP-expressing cell. Targeting of a GFP-expressing neuron takes less than 3 min, and the retina preparation remains light sensitive and suitable for recording for at least 8 h. This protocol can also be applied to study retinal neurons labeled with other two photon-excitable fluorophores. It is assumed that potential users of this protocol will have a basic understanding of retinal physiology and patch-clamp recording, which are not described in detail here.
Traumatic brain injury (TBI) is the leading cause of death in young adults and children. The treatment of TBI in the acute phase has improved substantially; however, the prevention and management of long-term complications remain a challenge. Blood-brain barrier (BBB) breakdown has often been documented in patients with TBI, but the role of such vascular pathology in neurological dysfunction has only recently been explored. Animal studies have demonstrated that BBB breakdown is involved in the initiation of transcriptional changes in the neurovascular network that ultimately lead to delayed neuronal dysfunction and degeneration. Brain imaging data have confirmed the high incidence of BBB breakdown in patients with TBI and suggest that such pathology could be used as a biomarker in the clinic and in drug trials. Here, we review the neurological consequences of TBI, focusing on the long-term complications of such injuries. We present the clinical evidence for involvement of BBB breakdown in TBI and examine the primary and secondary mechanisms that underlie such pathology. We go on to consider the consequences of BBB injury, before analyzing potential mechanisms linking vascular pathology to neuronal dysfunction and degeneration, and exploring possible targets for treatment. Finally, we highlight areas for future basic research and clinical studies into TBI.
Autism is a heterogeneous neurodevelopmental disorder of unknown aetiology that affects 1 in 100-150 individuals. Diagnosis is based on three categories of behavioural criteria: abnormal social interactions, communication deficits and repetitive behaviours. Strong evidence for a genetic basis has prompted the development of mouse models with targeted mutations in candidate genes for autism. As the diagnostic criteria for autism are behavioural, phenotyping these mouse models requires behavioural assays with high relevance to each category of the diagnostic symptoms. Behavioural neuroscientists are generating a comprehensive set of assays for social interaction, communication and repetitive behaviours to test hypotheses about the causes of autism. Robust phenotypes in mouse models hold great promise as translational tools for discovering effective treatments for components of autism spectrum disorders.
The vast computational power of the brain has traditionally been viewed as arising from the complex connectivity of neural networks, in which an individual neuron acts as a simple linear summation and thresholding device. However, recent studies show that individual neurons utilize a wealth of nonlinear mechanisms to transform synaptic input into output firing. These mechanisms can arise from synaptic plasticity, synaptic noise, and somatic and dendritic conductances. This tool kit of nonlinear mechanisms confers considerable computational power on both morphologically simple and more complex neurons, enabling them to perform a range of arithmetic operations on signals encoded ina variety of different ways.
Discoveries in fruit flies have greatly contributed to our understanding of neuroscience. The use of an unparalleled wealth of tools, many of which originated between 19101960, has enabled milestone discoveries in nervous system development and function. Such findings have triggered and guided many research efforts in vertebrate neuroscience. After 100 years, fruit flies continue to be the choice model system for many neuroscientists. The combinational use of powerful research tools will ensure that this model organism will continue to lead to key discoveries that will impact vertebrate neuroscience.
It is well known that neural activity exhibits variability, in the sense that identical sensory stimuli produce different responses, but it has been difficult to determine what this variability means. Is it noise, or does it carry important information-about, for example, the internal state of the organism? Here we address this issue from the bottom up, by asking whether small perturbations to activity in cortical networks are amplified. Based on in vivo whole-cell patch-clamp recordings in rat barrel cortex, we find that a perturbation consisting of a single extra spike in one neuron produces approximately 28 additional spikes in its postsynaptic targets. We also show, using simultaneous intra- and extracellular recordings, that a single spike in a neuron produces a detectable increase in firing rate in the local network. Theoretical analysis indicates that this amplification leads to intrinsic, stimulus-independent variations in membrane potential of the order of +/-2.2-4.5 mV-variations that are pure noise, and so carry no information at all. Therefore, for the brain to perform reliable computations, it must either use a rate code, or generate very large, fast depolarizing events, such as those proposed by the theory of synfire chains. However, in our in vivo recordings, we found that such events were very rare. Our findings are thus consistent with the idea that cortex is likely to use primarily a rate code.

A new statistical method for the estimation of the response latency is proposed. When spontaneous discharge is present, the first spike after the stimulus application may be caused by either the stimulus itself, or it may appear due to the prevailing spontaneous activity. Therefore, an appropriate method to deduce the response latency from the time to the first spike after the stimulus is needed. We develop a nonparametric estimator of the response latency based on repeated stimulations. A simulation study is provided to show how the estimator behaves with an increasing number of observations and for different rates of spontaneous and evoked spikes. Our nonparametric approach requires very few assumptions. For comparison, we also consider a parametric model. The proposed probabilistic model can be used for both single and parallel neuronal spike trains. In the case of simultaneously recorded spike trains in several neurons, the estimators of joint distribution and correlations of response latencies are also introduced. Real data from inferior colliculus auditory neurons obtained from a multielectrode probe are studied to demonstrate the statistical estimators of response latencies and their correlations in space.
We simulate reconstructed alpha-motoneurons (MNs) under physiological and morphological realistic parameters and compare the modeled reciprocal (REC) and recurrent (REN) inhibitory postsynaptic potentials (IPSPs) containing voltage-dependent channels on the dendrites with the IPSPs of a passive MN model. Three distribution functions of the voltage-dependent channels on the dendrites are applied: a step function (ST) with uniform spatial dispersion; an exponential decay (ED) function, with channels with high density located proximal to the soma; and an exponential rise (ER) with a higher density of channels located distally. The excitatory and REN inhibitory inputs are located as a gaussian function on the dendrites, while the REC inhibitory synapses are located proximal to the soma. Our simulations generate four key results. (1) The distribution pattern of the voltage-dependent channels does not affect the IPSP peak, its time integral (TI), or its rate of rise (RR). However, the IPSP peak decreased in the presence of the active dendrites, while the EPSP peak increased. (2) Proximally located IPSP conductance produces greater IPSP peak, RR, and TI. (3) Increased duration of the IPSP produces greater RR and moderately increased TI and has a small effect on the peak amplitude. (4) The IPSP of both REC and REN models is specific to each MN: its amplitude is proportional to the MNs' input resistance, R(N); the increase of IPSP at the proximal location of the IPSP synapses is inversely related to R(N); and the effect of the IPSP conductance duration is insensitive to R(N).
Neurons in the input layer of primary visual cortex in primates develop edge-like receptive fields. One approach to understanding the emergence of this response is to state that neural activity has to efficiently represent sensory data with respect to the statistics of natural scenes. Furthermore, it is believed that such an efficient coding is achieved using a competition across neurons so as to generate a sparse representation, that is, where a relatively small number of neurons are simultaneously active. Indeed, different models of sparse coding, coupled with Hebbian learning and homeostasis, have been proposed that successfully match the observed emergent response. However, the specific role of homeostasis in learning such sparse representations is still largely unknown. By quantitatively assessing the efficiency of the neural representation during learning, we derive a cooperative homeostasis mechanism that optimally tunes the competition between neurons within the sparse coding algorithm. We apply this homeostasis while learning small patches taken from natural images and compare its efficiency with state-of-the-art algorithms. Results show that while different sparse coding algorithms give similar coding results, the homeostasis provides an optimal balance for the representation of natural images within the population of neurons. Competition in sparse coding is optimized when it is fair. By contributing to optimizing statistical competition across neurons, homeostasis is crucial in providing a more efficient solution to the emergence of independent components.
Analysis of correlated spike trains is a hot topic of research in computational neuroscience. A general model of probability distributions for spikes includes too many parameters to be of use in analyzing real data. Instead, we need a simple but powerful generative model for correlated spikes. We developed a class of conditional mixture models that includes a number of existing models and analyzed its capabilities and limitations. We apply the model to dynamical aspects of neuron pools. When Hebbian cell assemblies coexist in a pool of neurons, the condition is specified by these assemblies such that the probability distribution of spikes is a mixture of those of the component assemblies. The probabilities of activation of the Hebbian assemblies change dynamically. We used this model as a basis for a competitive model governing the states of assemblies.
Molecular alterations in glioblastoma have the potential to guide treatment. Here, we explore the relationship between temozolomide (TMZ) response and O(6)-methylguanine DNA methyltransferase (MGMT) status in brain tumor initiating cells (BTICs). Methylation, expression, and sensitivity were assessed in 20 lines; associations were evaluated by Fisher's exact test. Some BTICs were sensitive. Sensitivity to TMZ was only associated with protein expression (P = .001). There were atypical BTICs including TMZ-resistant lines in which the methylation-specific PCR reaction revealed both methylated and unmethylated bands. BTICs are not uniformly resistant to TMZ; some are sensitive. MGMT status does not predict TMZ response with high precision.
Ageing is thought to participate to the pathogenesis of sporadic inclusion-body myositis (s-IBM). Although the regenerative potential of s-IBM muscle is reduced in vivo, age-related abnormalities of satellite cells possibly accounting for the decline of muscle repair have not been demonstrated. Here we show that proliferation rate and clonogenicity of s-IBM myoblasts are significantly lower and doubling time is longer than normal age-matched controls, indicating that proliferative capacity of s-IBM muscles becomes exhausted earlier. Telomere shortening is detected in s-IBM cells suggesting premature senescence. Differently from controls, s-IBM myoblasts show increased active beta-catenin mainly localized within myonuclei, indicating active Wnt stimulation. After many rounds of muscle growth, only s-IBM myoblasts accumulate congophilic inclusions and immunoreactive Abeta(1-40) deposits. Therefore, s-IBM myoblasts seem to have a constitutively impaired regenerative capacity and the intrinsic property, upon sufficient aging in vitro, to accumulate Abeta. Our results might be valuable in understanding molecular mechanisms associated with muscle aging underlying the defective regeneration of s-IBM muscle and provide new clues for future therapeutic strategies.
Although beta-amyloid (Abeta) plaques and tau neurofibrillary tangles are hallmarks of Alzheimer's disease (AD) neuropathology, loss of synapses is considered the best correlate of cognitive decline in AD, rather than plaques or tangles. How pathological Abeta and tau aggregation relate to each other and to alterations in synapses remains unclear. Since aberrant tau phosphorylation occurs in amyloid precursor protein (APP) Swedish mutant transgenic mice, and since neurofibrillary tangles develop in triple transgenic mice harboring mutations in APP, tau and presenilin 1, we utilized these well-characterized mouse models to explore the relation between Abeta and tau pathologies. We now report that pathological accumulation of Abeta and hyperphosphorylation of tau develop concomitantly within synaptic terminals.
An intricate network of epigenetic factors regulates cell differentiation by modulating the chromatin structure and ultimately affecting gene expression. This review describes the chromatin landscape defining oligodendrocyte progenitor differentiation during development and remyelination. We shall discuss the current knowledge regarding modifications of chromatin components during the progression of progenitors into myelinating cells and discuss the potential contribution of histone variants, microRNAs, and DNA methylation. We shall also briefly address how changes to this chromatin landscape can disturb this natural progression and alter the capacity to remyelinate.
It is well known that motor skill learning is characterized by rapid improvement in performances within the first training session and a slower progression in the following sessions that is correlated to the consolidation phase. Our goal was to establish the regional mapping of neural activity in relation to the motor skill learning included in the accelerating rotarod task using Zif268, c-Fos and ERK 1/2. As ERK 1/2 activity is also a marker of adaptive response to synaptic activation for newly learned events, its role was also verified. Learning the rotarod task did not affect levels of Zif268, but induced a selective upregulation of c-Fos in the cerebellum, motor cortex M1 and M2, cingulate cortex CG1 and CG2 as well as dorsal striatum. Notably, levels of phosphorylated ERK 1/2 were selectively increased in this later region during consolidation phase. To further study this effect, we injected inhibitors of ERK activation, the SL327 intraperitoneally or the PD98059 directly into the dorsal striatum, and observed that motor performances were exclusively impaired in this phase. These findings indicate that ERK 1/2 activity of the dorsal striatum is critical for the consolidation of late but not early phase of motor skill memory.
The interactions between a mother and her offspring during early postnatal life impact cognitive development in altricial species. The current study examined the influence of postnatal rearing conditions on subsequent cognitive functioning in male and female Long-Evans rats prior to puberty. Maternal conditions were manipulated by repeated separations of rat pups from their dams on postnatal days 2 though 14. In the early handling condition, pups were removed from mothers briefly for 15min daily, while in the maternal separation condition pups were separated from their mothers for 180min daily. Offspring from handled or separated litters were evaluated prior to puberty between days 25-36 of life on a battery of cognitive tasks that assessed several types of memory. Male rats separated from mothers for 180min were impaired in their non-spatial and spatial memory compared to early-handled males as indicated by their performance on an object recognition task, a Y-maze task, and reference and working memory versions of the water maze task. In contrast, maternally-separated females were not impaired, and in some cases performed better on memory tasks, compared to early-handled females. Results indicate that the biological sex of offspring moderated the effects of maternal conditions on diverse cognitive tasks. Because sex differences were evident prior to puberty, gonadal hormones likely had a limited influence on cognition. Although the bases for sex differences in the cognitive response to rearing conditions are unknown, disparities in maternal attentiveness directed toward male and female offspring may play a role.
A disturbance in 5-HT signalling can lead to maladaptive and disruptive behavioural changes seen in neuropsychiatric disorders, potentially by 5-HT's role in cognitive control over behaviour. 5-HT levels are tightly controlled by the serotonin transporter (5-HTT). We and others have observed that 5-HTT availability affects reversal learning. Here we investigated the role of 5-HT in another type of cognitive control, which is the ability to use the value of expected outcomes to guide behaviour. 5-HTT knockout (5-HTT(-/-)) rats and wild-type (5-HTT(+/+)) controls were subjected to a Pavlovian reinforcer devaluation paradigm, which assesses the ability of an appetitive conditioned stimulus (CS) to gain access to the motivational properties of an upcoming aversive unconditioned stimulus (US). Neural correlates were evaluated using c-Fos immunohistochemistry, in brains of animals sacrificed 90min following the start of the probe test. Results show that conditioned responding was decreased in 5-HTT(+/+), but not 5-HTT(-/-), rats after US devaluation. In addition, OFC and basolateral amygdala (BLA) c-Fos immunoreactivity was increased in non-devalued 5-HTT(-/-) rats compared to non-devalued 5-HTT(+/+) rats. Whereas US devaluation increased c-Fos immunoreactivity in the OFC and BLA of 5-HTT(+/+) rats, there was no further increase in c-Fos immunoreactivity in the OFC and BLA of 5-HTT(-/-) rats. Taken together, 5-HTT(-/-) rats are unable to use the value of expected outcomes to guide behaviour, potentially due to over-activity of the OFC and BLA. Our findings suggest a new modulatory role of 5-HT in cognitive control over behaviour, which may have important implications for psychopathologies, like anxiety disorders and addiction.
There is significant individual variability in cognitive decline during aging, suggesting the existence of &quot;vulnerability factors&quot; for eventual deficits. Neuroinflammation may be one such factor; increased glial reactivity is a common outcome of aging, which in turn is associated with numerous neurodegenerative conditions. Early-life infection leads to cognitive impairment in conjunction with an inflammatory challenge in young adulthood, which led us to explore whether it might also accelerate the cognitive decline associated with aging. Rats were treated on postnatal day 4 with PBS or Escherichia coli, and then tested for learning and memory at 2 or 16months of age, using two fear-conditioning tasks (context pre-exposure and ambiguous cue), and a spatial water maze task. Neonatally-infected rats exhibited memory impairments in both the ambiguous cue fear-conditioning task and in the water maze, but only at 16months. There were no differences in anxiety between groups. Neonatally-infected rats also exhibited greater aging-induced increases in glial markers (CD11b and MHCII on microglia, and GFAP on astrocytes), as well as selective changes in NMDA receptor subunit expression within the hippocampus, but not in amygdala or parietal cortex compared to controls. Taken together, these data suggest that early-life infection leads to less successful cognitive aging, which may be linked to changes in glial reactivity.
Trafficking of AMPA receptors to and from synapses and their final localizations are critical for the expression of synaptic plasticity, which is regarded as the cellular basis of learning and memory. Protein that interacts with C Kinase 1 (PICK1), is one of the scaffolding proteins that interacts with AMPA receptors and regulates their trafficking in synaptic plasticity. In this study, we found that PICK1 could be a threonine-phosphorylated protein and identified threonine 82 (T82) in the PDZ domain of PICK1 as a potential phosphorylation site based on sequence and structural modeling analysis. We further performed co-immunoprecipitation experiments to confirm that T82 was indeed critical for the interaction between PICK1 and GluR2. In addition, T82E mutation mimicking the phosphorylation of PICK1 dispersed the colocalization of PICK1 and GluR2 in heterologous cells. Finally, the phosphorylated analog, T82E, inhibited PICK1's effect in regulating surface distribution of GluR2 and current mediated by GluR2. In summary, our data suggest that T82 is a potential phosphorylation site of PICK1 and is critical for the interaction of PICK1 with AMPA receptors and PICK1-regulated AMPA receptor localization.
Ubiquitin C-terminal hydrolase (UCH)-L3 is an enzyme with a strongly suggested de-ubiquitinating function by in vitro studies, but has poorly been investigated in vivo. In this study, we show that skeletal muscles of Uchl3(-/-) mice exhibit the up-regulation of cleaved ATF6, Grp78, and PDI as well as HSP27, HSP70, HSP90 and HSP110, which indicate the induction of stress responses. The prominent accumulation of polyubiquitinated proteins, one of the factors reported to induce stress responses, was observed in the skeletal muscle of Uchl3(-/-) mice. Mouse embryonic fibroblasts (MEFs) from Uchl3(-/-) mice also showed an accumulation of polyubiquitinated proteins. Moreover, the polyubiquitinated protein accumulation in Uchl3(-/-) MEFs was attenuated by the exogenous expression of wild-type, but not hydrolase activity deficient, UCH-L3. In addition, wild-type, but not its hydrolase activity or ubiquitin binding activity deficient UCH-L3 showed the ability to cleave ubiquitin from polyubiquitinated lysozyme in vitro. These results suggest that UCH-L3 functions as a de-ubiquitinating enzyme in vivo where lack of its hydrolase activity may result in the prominent accumulation of ubiquitinated proteins and subsequent induction of stress responses in skeletal muscle.
Many philosophers ignore developments in the behavioral, cognitive, and neurosciences that purport to challenge our ideas of free will and responsibility. The reason for this is that the challenge is often framed as a denial of the idea that we are able to act differently than we do. However, most philosophers think that the ability to do otherwise is irrelevant to responsibility and free will. Rather it is our ability to act for reasons that is crucial. We argue that the scientific findings indicate that it is not so obvious that our views of free will and responsibility can be grounded in the ability to act for reasons without introducing metaphysical obscurities. This poses a challenge to philosophers. We draw the conclusion that philosophers are wrong not to address the recent scientific developments and that scientists are mistaken in formulating their challenge in terms of the freedom to do otherwise.
Feedback error-related negativity (fERN) has been referred to as a negative deflection in the event related potential (ERP), which distinguishes between wins and losses in terms of expected and unexpected outcomes. Some studies refer to the &quot;expected outcome&quot; as the probability to win vs. to lose, and others as expected size of rewards. We still do not know much about whether these alternative interpretations of &quot;expected outcome&quot; affect the fERN in a different manner, nor do we know the effect of their interaction in an expected value fashion. We set a gambling task with four game categories; two had the same expected value, while the other two categories were equivalent to the first ones, but alternatively in the size or probability of the offered rewards. Results show that fERN preceded by a P200, and followed by a Pe-like wave differentiates between losing in the category with a higher expected value and the rest of the experimental conditions. fERN differentiates between wins and losses, but changes in the size and probability of rewards impact the fERN amplitude only in win conditions. Results also show greater positivity following win feedback when the size and/or probability of the outcome rewards were higher, so that the higher the expected value the greater the positivity following win feedback. Our findings support the notion that both the probability and size of the offered rewards modulate the motivational value for the win feedback, this being also true for their interaction in an expected value fashion.
Murine models are commonly used in neuroscience to improve our knowledge of disease processes and to test drug effects. To accurately study neuroanatomy and brain function in small animals, histological staining and ex vivo autoradiography remain the gold standards to date. These analyses are classically performed by manually tracing regions of interest, which is time-consuming. For this reason, only a few 2D tissue sections are usually processed, resulting in a loss of information. We therefore proposed to match a 3D digital atlas with previously 3D-reconstructed post mortem data to automatically evaluate morphology and function in mouse brain structures. We used a freely available MRI-based 3D digital atlas derived from C57Bl/6J mouse brain scans (9.4T). The histological and autoradiographic volumes used were obtained from a preliminary study in APP(SL)/PS1(M146L) transgenic mice, models of Alzheimer's disease, and their control littermates (PS1(M146L)). We first deformed the original 3D MR images to match our experimental volumes. We then applied deformation parameters to warp the 3D digital atlas to match the data to be studied. The reliability of our method was qualitatively and quantitatively assessed by comparing atlas-based and manual segmentations in 3D. Our approach yields faster and more robust results than standard methods in the investigation of post mortem mouse data sets at the level of brain structures. It also constitutes an original method for the validation of an MRI-based atlas using histology and autoradiography as anatomical and functional references, respectively.
As a promising non-invasive imaging technique, functional near infrared spectroscopy (fNIRS) has recently earned increasing attention in resting-state functional connectivity (RSFC) studies. Preliminary fNIRS-based RSFC studies adopted a seed correlation approach and yielded interesting results. However, the seed correlation approach has several inherent problems, such as neglecting of interactions among multiple regions and a dependence on seed region selection. Moreover, ineffectively reduced noise and artifacts in fNIRS measurements also negatively affect RSFC results. In this study, independent component analysis (ICA) was introduced to meet these challenges in RSFC detection based on resting-state fNIRS measurements. The results of ICA on data from the sensorimotor and the visual systems both showed functional system-specific RSFC maps. Results from comparison between ICA and the conventional seed correlation approach demonstrated, both qualitatively and quantitatively, the superior performance of ICA with higher sensitivity and specificity, especially in the case of higher noise level. The capability of ICA to separate noise and artifacts from resting-state fNIRS data was also demonstrated, and the extracted noise and artifacts were illustrated. Finally, some practical issues on performing ICA on resting-state fNIRS data were discussed.



Progressive myoclonic epilepsy (PME) is a disease complex and is characterized by the development of relentlessly progressive myoclonus, cognitive impairment, ataxia, and other neurologic deficits. It encompasses different diagnostic entities and the common causes include Lafora body disease, neuronal ceroid lipofuscinoses, Unverricht-Lundborg disease, myoclonic epilepsy with ragged-red fiber (MERRF) syndrome, sialidoses, dentato-rubro-pallidal atrophy, storage diseases, and some of the inborn errors of metabolism, among others. Recent advances in this area have clarified molecular genetic basis, biological basis, and natural history, and also provided a rational approach to the diagnosis. Most of the large studies related to PME are from south India from a single center, National Institute of Mental Health and Neurological Sciences (NIMHANS), Bangalore. However, there are a few case reports and small series about Lafora body disease, neuronal ceroid lipofuscinoses and MERRF from India. We review the clinical and research experience of a cohort of PME patients evaluated at NIMHANS over the last two decades, especially the phenotypic, electrophysiologic, pathologic, and genetic aspects.

The relationship between body composition and function in spinal muscular atrophy (SMA) is poorly understood. 53 subjects with SMA were stratified by type and Hammersmith functional motor scale, expanded score into three cohorts: low-functioning non-ambulatory (type 2 with Hammersmith score &lt; 12, n=19), high-functioning non-ambulatory (type 2 with Hammersmith score &gt; or = 12 or non-ambulatory type 3, n=17), and Ambulatory (n=17). Lean and fat mass was estimated using dual-energy X-ray absorptiometry. Anthropometric data was incorporated to measure fat-free (lean mass in kg/stature in m(2)) and fat (fat mass in kg/stature in m(2)) mass indices, the latter compared to published age and sex norms. Feeding dysfunction among type 2 subjects was assessed by questionnaire. Fat mass index was increased in the high-functioning non-ambulatory cohort (10.4+/-4.5) compared with both the ambulatory (7.2+/-2.1, P=0.013) and low-functioning non-ambulatory (7.6+/-3.1, P=0.040) cohorts. 12 of 17 subjects (71%) in the high-functioning non-ambulatory cohort had fat mass index &gt; 85th percentile for age and gender (connoting &quot;at risk of overweight&quot;) versus 9 of 19 subjects (47%) in the low-functioning non-ambulatory cohort and 8 of 17 ambulatory subjects (47%). Despite differences in clinical function, a similar proportion of low functioning (7/18, 39%) and high functioning (2/7, 29%) type 2 subjects reported swallowing or feeding dysfunction. Non-ambulatory patients with relatively high clinical function may be at particular risk of excess adiposity, perhaps reflecting access to excess calories despite relative immobility, emphasizing the importance of individualized nutritional management in SMA.
We report a third patient with typical cap myopathy due to a heterozygous TPM3 mutation, confirming the importance of this causal association. The p.R168C TPM3 mutation we identified has been reported in two previous patients. The histological changes associated with this mutation vary widely from typical cap myopathy with near complete type 1 predominance (two patients), to typical congenital fibre-type disproportion without protein inclusions (one patient). We performed 2D-gel electrophoresis using muscle biopsies from two patients with the p.R168C mutation and show that mutant protein accounts for around 50% of alpha-tropomyosin(slow) in sarcomeres, consistent with a dominant negative mechanism of disease pathogenesis.
Evidence indicates that noradrenaline elicits anti-inflammatory actions in the central nervous system (CNS), and plays a neuroprotective role where inflammatory events contribute to pathology. Here we examined the ability of pharmacological enhancement of central noradrenergic tone to impact upon activation of the IL-1 system in rat brain. Treatment with the noradrenaline reuptake inhibitor reboxetine combined with the alpha(2)-adrenoceptor antagonist idazoxan induced expression of IL-1beta as well as its negative regulators, IL-1 receptor antagonist (IL-1ra) and IL-1 type II receptor (IL-1RII) in rat cortex. The ability of reboxetine/idazoxan treatment to activate the IL-1 system was mediated by beta-adrenoceptors, as the aforementioned effects were blocked by the beta-adrenoceptor antagonist propranolol. Moreover, administration of the brain penetrant beta(2)-adrenoceptor agonist clenbuterol induced expression of IL-1beta, IL-1ra and IL-1RII in rat brain. This action was selective to the IL-1 system, as other inflammatory cytokines including TNF-alpha, IL-6 or IFN-gamma were not induced by clenbuterol. Induction of IL-1beta was accompanied by activation of NFkappaB and of the MAP kinase ERK, and clenbuterol also induced expression of the IL-1beta-inducible gene CINC-1. The ability of clenbuterol to activate the IL-1 system was blocked by propranolol, and was mimicked by the highly selective beta(2)-adrenoceptor agonist formoterol. Despite the ability of clenbuterol to activate the central IL-1 system, it largely combated the neuroinflammatory response induced by systemic inflammatory stimulus (bacterial lipopolysaccharide; LPS). Specifically, whilst the ability of clenbuterol to induce expression of IL-1RII and IL-1Ra was maintained following the inflammatory challenge, its ability to induce IL-1beta was reduced. In addition, clenbuterol suppressed LPS-induced expression of the inflammatory cytokines TNF-alpha and IL-6, the inflammatory chemokines RANTES and IP-10, the co-stimulatory molecules CD40 and ICAM-1. Thus overall, clenbuterol suppresses the innate inflammatory response in rat brain.
Clinical observations have suggested that ritanserin, a 5-HT(2A/C) receptor antagonist may reduce motor deficits in persons with Parkinson's Disease (PD). To better understand the potential antiparkinsonian actions of ritanserin, we compared the effects of ritanserin with the selective 5-HT(2A) receptor antagonist M100907 and the selective 5-HT(2C) receptor antagonist SB 206553 on motor impairments in mice treated with 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP). MPTP-treated mice exhibited decreased performance on the beam-walking apparatus. These motor deficits were reversed by acute treatment with L-3,4-dihydroxyphenylalanine (levodopa). Both the mixed 5-HT(2A/C) antagonist ritanserin and the selective 5-HT(2A) antagonist M100907 improved motor performance on the beam-walking apparatus. In contrast, SB 206553 was ineffective in improving the motor deficits in MPTP-treated mice. These data suggest that 5-HT(2A) receptor antagonists may represent a novel approach to ameliorate motor symptoms of Parkinson's disease.
Modafinil is a psychostimulant drug used widely for the treatment of narcolepsy, which also has additional positive effects on cognition. Here, we investigate the effects of modafinil on behavioural performance and synaptic plasticity in rats. Improved acquisition in the water maze task was observed in animals that underwent chronic treatment with modafinil. We found that the distance traveled and escape latency were reduced after the first day in chronically-treated rats, compared to controls. Importantly, swim velocity was similar for both groups, excluding pharmacological effects on motor skills. We also found that modafinil increases synaptic plasticity in the dentate gyrus of urethane-anaesthetized rats; modafinil induced a robust augmentation of the population spike, evident after application of 2 bursts of 200 Hz high-frequency stimulation. Furthermore, the modafinil-dependent enhancement of postsynaptic potentials correlated selectively with theta rhythm augmentation. We propose that modafinil may facilitate hippocampal-associated spatial representation via increased theta-related hippocampal plasticity.
Recent evidence suggests that a network of brain areas may be involved in visually guided walking. Here we study patients with Parkinson's disease (PD) who experience 'freezing' behaviour to investigate the visual control of locomotion and the role of the basal ganglia in this system. We use a variable-width doorway to measure the scaling of motor output to visual input specifying door width. By measuring walking behaviour as participants passed through the doorway, we show that both PD and healthy control participants scaled their locomotor outputs to door width. Both groups reacted to narrower doors by walking more slowly with shorter strides. However, the changes were greater in the PD group, where walking speed dramatically decreased while approaching the doorway. Such a pattern could help explain why doorways cause freezing episodes in PD. Neither explicit perceptual judgements of door width, nor performance on motor tasks, predicted the door behaviour. On the basis of these findings, we propose that PD is associated with a visuomotor disturbance, such that responses to action-relevant visual information are exaggerated. In the PD group, dopaminergic medications improved many baseline gait variables but did not affect their sensitivity to door width, suggesting that this visuomotor effect is not mediated by the basal ganglia. This hypothesis provides a novel framework for interpreting a variety of results with PD patients.
Identical local image motion signals can arise from countless object motions in the world. In order to resolve this ambiguity, the visual system must somehow integrate motion signals arising from different locations along an object's contour. Difficulties arise, however, because image contours can derive from multiple objects and from occlusion. Thus, correctly integrating respective objects' motion signals presupposes the specification of what counts as an object. Depending on how this form analysis problem is solved, dramatically different object motion percepts can be constructed from the same set of local image motions. Here we apply fMRI to investigate the mechanisms underlying the segmentation and integration of motion signals that are critical to motion perception in general. We hold the number of image objects constant, but vary whether these objects are perceived to move independently or not. We find that BOLD signal in V3v, V4v, V3A, V3B and MT varies with the number of distinct sources of motion information in the visual scene. These data support the hypothesis that these areas integrate form and motion information in order to segment motion into independent sources (i.e. objects) thereby overcoming ambiguities that arise at the earliest stages of motion processing.
The Sustained Attention to Response Task (SART) is a widely used tool in cognitive neuroscience increasingly employed to identify brain regions associated with failures of sustained attention. An important claim of the SART is that it is significantly related to real-world problems of sustained attention such as those experienced by TBI and ADHD patients. This claim is largely based on its association with the Cognitive Failures Questionnaire (CFQ), but recently concerns have been expressed about the reliability of the SART-CFQ association. Based on a review of the literature, meta-analysis of prior research, and analysis of original data, we conclude that, across studies sampling diverse populations and contexts, the SART is reliably associated with the CFQ. The CFQ-SART relation also holds for patients with TBI. We note, however, conceptual limitations of using the CFQ, which was designed as a measure of general cognitive failures, to validate the SART, which was specifically designed to assess sustained attention. To remedy this limitation, we report on associations between the SART and a specific Attention-Related Cognitive Errors Scale (ARCES) and a Mindful Awareness of Attention Scale-Lapses Only (MAAS-LO).
The properties of retrograde amnesia after damage to the hippocampus have been explicated with some success using a rat model of human medial temporal lobe amnesia. We review the results of this experimental work with rats focusing on several areas of consensus in this growing literature. We evaluate the theoretically significant hypothesis that hippocampal retrograde amnesia normally exhibits a temporal gradient, affecting recent, but sparing remote memories. Surprisingly, the evidence does not provide much support for the idea that there is a lengthy process of systems consolidation following a learning episode. Instead, recent and remote memories tend to be equally affected. The extent of damage to the hippocampus is a significant factor in this work since it is likely that spared hippocampal tissue can support at least partial memory retrieval. With extensive hippocampal damage gradients are flat or, in the case of memory tasks with flavour/odour retrieval cues, the retrograde amnesia covers a period of about 1-3 days. There is consistent evidence that at the time of learning the hippocampus interferes with or overshadows memory acquisition by other systems. This contributes to the breadth and severity of retrograde amnesia relative to anterograde amnesia in the rat. The fact that multiple, distributed learning episodes can overcome this overshadowing is consistent with a parallel dual-store theory or a Distributed Reinstatement Theory in which each learning episode triggers a short period of memory replay that provides a brief hippocampal-dependent systems consolidation.
Asymmetries of spatial attention are observed in both clinical and non-clinical populations. While lesions of the right hemisphere frequently result in symptoms of left neglect (right bias), the opposite pattern is often observed in healthy subjects, a phenomenon known as pseudoneglect. Pharmacological and animal studies have suggested a critical role for the catecholamines, in particular dopamine and noradrenaline, in modulating the direction and magnitude of spatial attentional bias. In the present study we investigated the effect of two catecholaminergic genes, DBH and DAT1, on performance in the Landmark task, a perceptual measure of spatial bias. 204 healthy participants performed the Landmark task and were genotyped for the DBH C-1021T and DAT1 3'UTR variants. Homozygosity for the DBH T allele, which is associated with relatively increased dopamine and decreased noradrenaline levels, resulted in a significant increase in rightwards spatial bias relative to the C allele. Similarly, homozygosity for the DAT1 9-repeat allele, which is associated with reduced dopamine transporter density, and consequently increased dopamine availability relative to the 10-repeat allele, was found to result in a greater degree of rightward bias. An additive effect of the two markers was also observed, such that the greatest degree of rightward spatial bias was observed in participants who possessed the 'high dopamine' alleles of both genes and the lowest degree in those without these alleles. These results provide the first evidence of genetic modulation of spatial bias in healthy adults.
Pure alexia (PA) is characterised by strong effects of word length on reading times and is sometimes accompanied by an overt letter-by-letter (LBL) reading strategy. Past studies have reported &quot;implicit recognition&quot; in some individual PA patients. This is a striking finding because such patients are able to perform semantic classification and lexical decision at above chance levels even when the exposure duration is short enough to prevent explicit identification. In an attempt to determine the prevalence of this &quot;implicit recognition&quot; effect, we assessed semantic categorisation and lexical decision performance using limited exposure durations in 10 PA cases. The majority of the patients showed above chance accuracy in semantic categorisation and lexical decision. Performance on the lexical decision test was influenced by frequency and imageability. In addition, we found that the extent to which patients showed evidence of &quot;implicit recognition&quot; in both tasks was inversely related to the severity of their reading disorder. This result is consistent with hypotheses which suggest that this effect does not constitute an implicit form of unique word identification but is a reflection of the degree of partial activation within the word recognition system. These results also go some way towards explaining the individual variation in the presence of this effect observed across previous case-study investigations in the literature.


Anorexia nervosa (AN) is a highly heritable young-onset psychiatric illness the etiology of which remains unknown. Estrogen alpha and beta receptors, encoded by ESR1 and ESR2 genes, are involved in food intake regulation and eating behavior, and may have a potential role in AN. We performed a family-based association study of 17 single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) encompassing ESR1 and ESR2 genes in a cohort of 321 French AN families. We attempted to replicate this finding in a cohort of 41 restrictive AN (RAN) families and in a population-based study of 693 young women. Using the transmission disequilibrium test, a significant over-transmission was detected between AN and ESR1 rs726281 and rs2295193. These SNPs and another among ESR1 were more specifically associated with the RAN subtype (rs726281, p=0.005, odds ratio (OR)=2.1, 95% confidence interval (95% CI)=1.2-3.6; rs3798577, p=0.021, OR=1.6, 95% CI=1.1-2.3; and rs2295193, p=0.007, OR=1.7, 95% CI=1.2-2.5). A large eight-SNPs haplotype of ESR1 gene was also associated with AN (p&lt;0.0001, OR=3.1, 95% CI=1.8-5.1). Association of ESR1 SNPs and RAN was driven by paternal over-transmissions (p&lt;0.0001, OR=3.7, 95% CI=1.9-7.3). Furthermore, we confirmed the preferential paternal over-transmission of the ESR1 rs726281 on the independent German sample of 41 RAN trios (p=0.025, OR=3, 95% CI=1.1-8.3). Finally, rs3798577 was associated with eating disorders in a population-based sample of 693 women (p&lt;0.01). Our findings are strongly in favor of an association between ESR1 polymorphisms and AN. In particular, ESR1 gene confers a high risk of vulnerability to the restrictive subtype of AN, and suggests that the estrogen pathway has to be further analyzed in AN.
Inhibitory interneurons in the cortex are regarded as an important intracortical module-forming factor. We report here our studies of the expression of three calcium-binding proteins in interneurons in the sensorimotor cortex of the cat. Calbindin-expressing non-pyramidal neurons were found to be distributed non-uniformly in layer III, forming large groups. Three-dimensional modeling showed that these groups formed continuous columns of width 400-1500 microm, which extended 6000-8000 microm mediolaterally both along the walls of the cruciate sulcus and on the free surfaces of the posterior and anterior sigmoid gyri. These data led to the hypothesis that these groups of inhibitory interneurons may create the conditions for selecting groups of efferent neurons within their areas and to recruit them into a single physiological act.
Cholesterol is vital to normal brain function including learning and memory but that involvement is as complex as the synthesis, metabolism and excretion of cholesterol itself. Dietary cholesterol influences learning tasks from water maze to fear conditioning even though cholesterol does not cross the blood brain barrier. Excess cholesterol has many consequences including peripheral pathology that can signal brain via cholesterol metabolites, pro-inflammatory mediators and antioxidant processes. Manipulations of cholesterol within the central nervous system through genetic, pharmacological, or metabolic means circumvent the blood brain barrier and affect learning and memory but often in animals already otherwise compromised. The human literature is no less complex. Cholesterol reduction using statins improves memory in some cases but not others. There is also controversy over statin use to alleviate memory problems in Alzheimer's disease. Correlations of cholesterol and cognitive function are mixed and association studies find some genetic polymorphisms are related to cognitive function but others are not. In sum, the field is in flux with a number of seemingly contradictory results and many complexities. Nevertheless, understanding cholesterol effects on learning and memory is too important to ignore.
Scopolamine is used as a standard/reference drug for inducing cognitive deficits in healthy humans and animals. Effects are often interpreted in terms of a role of acetylcholine in mnemonic and/or attentional processes. In this paper an overview is given of the effects of scopolamine on animal behavior. Examination of the dose-response curve of systemically administered scopolamine indicates that sensory discrimination and attention are most sensitive to disruption. When higher doses (&gt;0.03mg/kg) are used, deficits in other cognitive and non-cognitive functions (e.g., learning and memory, locomotor activity) are reported. Several behavioral processes (taste aversion, anxiety, short-term memory, attention) are found to be affected after intracerebral injections of scopolamine. It is concluded that effects on learning and memory performance which are observed after higher doses of scopolamine are mediated by (1) primary effects on attention and sensory/stimulus discrimination, (2) non-specific effects on behavior (e.g., locomotor activity, anxiety), and (3) peripheral side-effects (e.g., pupil dilation, salivation). Finally, the validity of scopolamine as a pharmacological model for cognitive impairment is discussed. The use of muscarinic M1 antagonists is suggested as a more selective and effective way of inducing cholinergic-induced cognitive deficits.
Yawning is a phylogenetically old behaviour that can be observed in most vertebrate species from foetal stages to old age. The origin and function of this conspicuous phenomenon have been subject to speculations for centuries. Here, we review the experimental evidence for each of these hypotheses. It is found that theories ascribing a physiological role to yawning (such as the respiratory, arousal, or thermoregulation hypotheses) lack evidence. Conversely, the notion that yawning has a communicative function involved in the transmission of drowsiness, boredom, or mild psychological stress receives increasing support from research in different fields. In humans and some other mammals, yawning is part of the action repertoire of advanced empathic and social skills.
Posttranslational modifications of proteins regulate various processes in the cells. The seminal role of phosphorylation in synaptic plasticity and memory has been established using several different model systems. Recently, an important role for another posttranslational modification, acetylation, particularly of histones, has emerged in these processes. This review focuses on the role of activity-dependent protein acetylation in synaptic plasticity and memory.
One of the pathological hallmarks in brains of patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD) is the presence of neuritic plaques, in which amyloid deposits are surrounded by reactive gliosis and dystrophic neurites. Within neuritic plaques, reticulon 3 (RTN3), a homolog of Nogo protein, appears to regulate the formation of both amyloid deposition via negative modulation of BACE1 activity and dystrophic neurites via the formation of RTN3 aggregates. Transgenic mice over-expressing RTN3, but not the other known markers of dystrophic neurites in AD brain, spontaneously develop RTN3-immunoreactive dystrophic neurites. The presence of dystrophic neurites impairs cognition. Blocking abnormal RTN3 aggregation will increase the available RTN3 monomer and is therefore a promising therapeutic strategy for enhancing cognitive function in AD patients.
The ability of l-3,4-dihydroxyphenylalanine (l-DOPA), l-DOPA-methyl ester and their major metabolites, dopamine, dihydroxyphenylacetic acid (DOPAC), homovanillic (HVA), 3-O-methyldopa and 3-methoxytyramine (3-MT) to bind to alpha(2) adrenergic and D1 and D2 dopamine receptors was assessed by radioligand binding to cloned human receptors expressed in cell lines. As anticipated, dopamine bound with high affinity to D1 (IC(50) 1.1 + or - 0.16 microM) and D2 (IC(50) 0.7 + or - 0.3 microM) dopamine receptors. However, dopamine also bound with high affinity to alpha(2A) (IC(50) was 2.6 + or - 0.5 microM), alpha(2C) (IC(50) 3.2 + or - 0.7 microM). 3-MT bound to alpha(2A) with high affinity (IC(50), 3.6 + or - 0.2 microM) though moderate affinity to alpha(2)c, D1 and D2 receptors (values of IC(50) were 55 + or - 14, 121 + or - 43, 36 + or - 14 microM, respectively). l-DOPA-methyl ester bound with high affinity to alpha(2) (IC(50) 17-36 microM) but not dopamine receptors (IC(50) 0.9-2.5 mM). l-DOPA, 3-O-methyldopa and DOPAC had no observable effect on binding to any of the receptors tested. These data suggest that the effects of l-DOPA in Parkinson's disease may result from actions of its metabolites dopamine and 3-MT on both dopaminergic and non-dopaminergic receptors. These findings may provide explanations for the differences between l-DOPA and dopamine receptor agonists in mediating anti-parkinsonian effects and propensity to be associated with dyskinesia and motor complications such as wearing-off and on-off.







We present a complicated case of spontaneous cerebrospinal otorrhea, which had not been cured despite undergoing 5 surgical interventions in the past. The disability to identify the location of the fistula was the main crux of the past failures. On this occasion, stereoscopic virtual reality presurgical planning was applied to identify the exact location of the fistula and a surgical simulation was performed, and was later confirmed during the actual operation. Interactive manipulation in a stereoscopic virtual environment makes the decision making process easier in the treatment of cerebrospinal otorrhea.
The occurrence of pseudotumor cerebri (PTC) and hyperprolactinemia related to a prolactinoma are extremely rare, and the link between these pathologies has not been examined adequately in the post-MRI era. We report a patient with a small intrasellar prolactinoma who also developed PTC. Magnetic resonance venography did not show any evidence of compression of the cavernous or any other sinuses. She initially responded to treatment with acetazolamide and cabergoline. However 9 months later, her PTC symptoms recurred despite a normal serum prolactin level and a mild reduction of the pituitary tumor size on MRI. She improved after a lumboperitoneal shunt. We conclude that the findings in our patient do not support an association between PTC and hyperprolactinemia or prolactinoma. However, the case supports the need for clinicians to consider the diagnosis of PTC when patients with small pituitary lesions exhibit raised intracranial pressure features.
Steroid responsive encephalopathy associated withSteroid responsive encephalopathy associated with autoimmune thyroiditis (SREAT), (also known as Hashimoto's encephalopathy) is a rare autoimmune encephalitis associated with high antithyroid antibodies, and presents with a relapsing-remitting or monophasic course, consisting of confusion, seizures, psychosis, dementia, or stroke-like episodes. In this report, a late onset depression was the initial presentation of SREAT in a middle aged patient, something rarely described before, indicating the need to suspect SREAT as a possible etiology for depression in this age group.
A 12-year-old girl was admitted to the Emergency Department with seizures and headache for 2 months. A CT scan and MRI showed a mass in the right frontal lobe with obvious mass effect. Surgery was carried out, and the resultant pathology was found to be aspergillosis. This study reports aspergillosis in an immunocompetent host following recurrent fungal otitis media. Although this condition is rare, it should be considered in patients with a history of fungal infections.
Cerebral venous sinus thrombosis (CVST) is an infrequent disease (representing around 1% of all strokes) manifested by clotting of blood in cerebral venous or dural sinuses as well as cortical veins. Herein, we describe an unusual case of malignant melanoma presenting with CVST in whom the diagnosis of CVST was suspected on the basis of clinical findings along with brain CT scan, and finally was confirmed by brain MRI and magnetic resonance venography. Intravenous heparin treatment was started immediately; but unfortunately the patient died one week after hospitalization. We suggest that the hypercoagulable state provoked by malignant melanoma generated the CVST as brain MRI did not indicate any evidence of brain metastasis; therefore, direct invasion of the sinus by the tumor is less likely; on the other hand, we should not omit the possible role of microscopic sinus metastasis.








Niels Stensen (1638-1686) was a prominent Danish scientist who laid the foundations of paleontology, geology, and crystallography. He undertook a personal search for the truth, rejecting many assumptions of his time, and he struggled to acquire a firm foundation of knowledge based on close observation and rigorous experimentation. Niels Stensen is known eponymously for the discovery of the duct of the parotid gland (ductus stenonianus) but most clinicians are not familiar with his contributions to anatomy beyond his studies on the glands. In 1665, he delivered a lecture in Paris on the anatomy of the brain, the Discours sur l'anatomie du cerveau (&quot;A Dissertation on the Anatomy of the Brain&quot;), which is a seminal investigation on methods in neuroscience. His scientific letter on a hydrocephalic calf represents an early pathophysiological investigation on hydrocephalus. In 1667 Stensen converted to Catholicism and in 1677 he was consecrated titular bishop of Titiopolis. He spent the last years of his life in poverty and traveled continuously trying to bring back northern Europe to Catholicism. This essay highlights the life and the scientific contributions of Niels Stensen, with emphasis on his contributions to neuroscience.


Autism affects 1 in 110 new births, and it has no single etiology with uniform agreement. This has a significant impact on the quality of life for individuals who have been diagnosed with autism. Although autism has a spectrum quality with a shared diagnosis, it presents a uniquely different clinical appearance in each individual. Recent research of suspected immunological factors have provided more support for a probable immunological process or for processes that may play a role in the acquisition of an autistic condition. These factors include prenatal, genetic, and postnatal findings, as well as the discovery of a dysfunctional chronic pro-inflammatory state in brain tissue and cerebrospinal fluid in subsets of autistic patients. These findings offer new theories that may lead to the development of disease modification or preventative therapeutic options in the near future. This article reviews prenatal, genetic, and observed immune aspects of the autism condition that may be risk factors in the presentation of the autistic clinical phenotype. Historical immune interventions in autism are reviewed and potential new therapies and interventions are discussed.
Hepatocerebral disorders are serious neuropsychiatric conditions that result from liver failure. These disorders are characterized neuropathologically by varying degrees of neuronal cell death in basal ganglia, cerebellum, and spinal cord, and include clinical entities such as Wilson's Disease, post-shunt myelopathy, hepatic encephalopathy, and acquired non-Wilsonian hepatocerebral degeneration. Morphologic changes to astrocytes (Alzheimer type II astrocytosis) are a major feature of hepatocerebral disorders. Neurological symptoms include Parkinsonism, cognitive dysfunction, and ataxia. Pathophysiologic mechanisms responsible for cerebral dysfunction and neuronal cell death in hepatocerebral disorders include ammonia toxicity and neurotoxic effects of metals such as copper, manganese, and iron. Molecular mechanisms of neurotoxicity include oxidative/nitrosative stress, glutamate (NMDA)-receptor-mediated excitotoxicity, and neuroinflammatory mechanisms. However, neuronal cell death in hepatocerebral disorders is limited by adaptive mechanisms that may include NMDA-receptor down-regulation, the synthesis of neuroprotective steroids and hypothermia. Management and treatment of hepatocerebral disorders include chelation therapy (Wilson's Disease), the use of ammonia-lowering agents (lactulose, antibiotics, ornithine aspartate) and liver transplantation.

In psychiatric disorders, 5-HT(2A) receptors play an important role. In order to study these receptors in vivo by positron emission tomography (PET), there is an increasing interest for subtype selective and high affinity radioligands. Up to now, no optimal radiotracer is available. Thus, 1-(2,4-difluorophenethyl)-4-(4-fluorophenylsulfonyl)piperidine (9), possessing high affinity and sufficient subtype selectivity for 5-HT(2A) receptors, and 1-(2,4-difluorophenethyl)-4-(4-fluorophenylsulfinyl)piperidine (15) have been (18)F-labelled by a nucleophilic one-step reaction. Both radiotracers could be prepared and isolated within 45 min, [(18)F]9 in a radiochemical yield (RCY) of 34.5+/-8% and [(18)F]15 of 9.5+/-2.5%. The K(i) values of 9 and 15 at 5-HT(2A) receptors towards [(3)H]ketanserin were determined to be 1.9+/-0.6 and 198+/-8 nM, respectively. Autoradiography with [(18)F]9 and [(18)F]15 on rat brain sections showed a very high nonspecific binding of &gt;80% for [(18)F]9 and 30% to 40% nonspecific binding for [(18)F]15; however, it is still too high in order to compensate for its lower affinity. Even though the affinity of 9 is more promising compared with 15, the high nonspecific binding of both radiofluorinated tracers in rat brain does not recommend those as an in vivo PET imaging agent for serotonin 5-HT(2A) receptors in humans.
The activity of telomerase, a ribonucleoprotein maintaining the length of chromosome ends (telomeres) to levels allowing cells to replicate indefinitely, is undetectable in normal, differentiated cells, is present at low levels in some activated cell types (including endothelial cells) and it is highly expressed by tumor cells. Kaposi's sarcoma (KS), the most frequent tumor in Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome (AIDS) patients (AIDS-KS), arises as a disorder of new blood vessel formation (angiogenesis), but it may evolve into an aggressive cancer, characterized by the proliferation and invasion of spindle-shaped, endothelial-like cells (KS cells, KSC). Here we report that primary KSC express low telomerase levels which are strongly enhanced by KS initiation and progression factors including the inflammatory mediators interleukin (IL)-1beta, tumor necrosis factor (TNF)alpha and interferon (IFN)gamma, the angiogenic basic fibroblast growth factor (bFGF) and the Tat protein of Human Immunodeficiency Virus (HIV)-1. Noteworthy, the increase of telomerase activity promoted by these molecules parallels the induction of KSC growth and invasion. These preliminary in vitro findings encourage measuring telomerase activity in AIDS-KS lesions in order to survey the clinical progression of the disease.
Lutein (L) and zeaxanthin (Z) are the dominant carotenoids within the central retina (there, termed macular pigment, MP) and brain (approximately 70% of total carotenoid concentration). Past studies have shown that MP is related to many static indicators of visual performance, such as visibility and disability glare. It has also been shown that MP is related to a dynamic measure of visual performance, the critical flicker fusion threshold (CFF). In this study, we examine whether MP is related to CFF in a larger sample. We also test the relation between MP and the more complete temporal contrast sensitivity function (TCSF). A total of 70 participants were assessed for a comparison of MP and the full temporal function. A separate pool of 354 participants was assessed for a MP and CFF comparison. Peak MP density was measured psychophysically (via heterochromatic flicker photometry) using a 1-degree diameter test. CFF was measured using a 1-degree 570 nm test varied at 100% modulation. The full TCSF was measured centrally using a 1-degree, 660 nm test (the modulation depth of which could be adjusted directly by the subject) centered within a 5.5-degree, 660 nm surround. A small fixation point was used to test a 7-degree parafoveal site. MP density was positively related to temporal function as assessed by the full TCSF in the center (n = 70, r = -0.29, p &lt; 0.01) but not at the parafoveal location (p &lt; 0.07). MP was also positively related to critical flicker fusion thresholds (n = 354, r = 0.21, p &lt; 0.0001).



In the past 30years, the study of nociception has relied mostly on thermal stimulation to activate nociceptors selectively. However, thermal stimulation suffers from some important limitations. For this reason, investigators have proposed intra-epidermal electrical stimulation (IES) as an alternative method to activate nociceptors selectively. This method relies on the fact that nociceptors are located mainly in the epidermis, while non-nociceptive fibres terminate more deeply in the dermis. Therefore, provided that the difference in receptor depth is sufficient, electric currents spatially restricted to the epidermal layers might activate nociceptors selectively. Here, we examined whether or not IES provides a fully selective nociceptive input. In a first experiment, we used capsaicin to induce a selective denervation of capsaicin-sensitive nociceptors, and thereby test whether the responses to IES are mediated by this population of afferent fibres. We found that capsaicin abolishes both the behavioural and the electrophysiological responses to IES applied at twice the perceptual threshold. In a second experiment, we applied a nerve pressure block to the superficial radial nerve to induce a temporally dissociated impairment of Abeta-, Adelta- and C-fibre afferents, and thereby determine the fibre populations contributing to the responses elicited by IES. We found that the time course of the blockade of the responses to IES follows closely the time course of the blockade of Adelta-fibres, but not of Abeta-fibres. Taken together, our results provide converging evidence that Adelta-nociceptors can be activated selectively using IES, provided that low intensities of stimulation are used.
We have recently implicated mitochondrial mechanisms in models of neuropathic and inflammatory pain, in some of which a role of protein kinase Cepsilon (PKCepsilon) has also been implicated. Since mitochondria contain several proteins that are targets of PKCepsilon, we evaluated the role of mitochondrial mechanisms in mechanical hyperalgesia induced by proinflammatory cytokines that induce PKCepsilon-dependent nociceptor sensitization, and by a direct activator of PKCepsilon (psiepsilonRACK), in the rat. Prostaglandin E(2) (PGE(2))-induced hyperalgesia is short lived in nave rats, while it is prolonged in psiepsilonRACK pre-treated rats, a phenomenon referred to as priming. Inhibitors of two closely related mitochondrial functions, electron transport (complexes I-V) and oxidative stress (reactive oxygen species), attenuated mechanical hyperalgesia induced by intradermal injection of psiepsilonRACK. In marked contrast, in a PKCepsilon-dependent form of mechanical hyperalgesia induced by prostaglandin E(2) (PGE(2)), inhibitors of mitochondrial function failed to attenuate hyperalgesia. These studies support the suggestion that at least two downstream signaling pathways can mediate the hyperalgesia induced by activating PKCepsilon.

Complex Regional Pain Syndrome (CRPS) is a neuropathic disease that presents a continuing challenge in terms of pathophysiology, diagnosis, and treatment. Recent studies of neuropathic pain, in both animals and patients, have established a direct relationship between abnormal thalamic rhythmicity related to Thalamo-cortical Dysrhythmia (TCD) and the occurrence of central pain. Here, this relationship has been examined using magneto-encephalographic (MEG) imaging in CRPS Type I, characterized by the absence of nerve lesions. The study addresses spontaneous MEG activity from 13 awake, adult patients (2 men, 11 women; age 15-62), with CRPS Type I of one extremity (duration range: 3months to 10years) and from 13 control subjects. All CRPS I patients demonstrated peaks in power spectrum in the delta (&lt;4Hz) and/or theta (4-9Hz) frequency ranges resulting in a characteristically increased spectral power in those ranges when compared to control subjects. The localization of such abnormal activity, implemented using independent component analysis (ICA) of the sensor data, showed delta and/or theta range activity localized to the somatosensory cortex corresponding to the pain localization, and to orbitofrontal-temporal cortices related to the affective pain perception. Indeed, CRPS Type I patients presented abnormal brain activity typical of TCD, which has both diagnostic value indicating a central origin for this ailment and a potential treatment interest involving pharmacological and electrical stimulation therapies.

Antipsychotics are effective at suppressing tics in Tourette syndrome, but can cause side effects. At a single center, all children with Tourette syndrome requiring antipsychotics were systematically monitored for metabolic and neurologic side effects every 6 months. Seventy-three children were followed for a mean of 39.6 months. Most children were treated primarily with an atypical antipsychotic. Thirty-three of 73 children (45%) developed lipid abnormalities. Compared with population-based mean lipid values for boys, total cholesterol, low-density lipoprotein, high-density lipoprotein, and triglyceride levels were significantly higher in our male sample (P &lt; 0.0001). Girls had significantly lower high-density lipoprotein concentrations (P = 0.0033). Thirty-six of 73 (49%) children demonstrated abnormal body mass index percentiles. The odds of having lipid abnormalities were significantly higher in children with abnormal body mass indices (odds ratio, 6.0; 95% confidence interval, 2.15-16.7; P = 0.0004). Three of 73 children developed neurologic complications. Metabolic complications of antipsychotics are common in children. These findings underscore the need to discuss benefits and risks before initiating therapy, and the importance of routinely monitoring growth and lipid profiles. Neurologic complications are uncommon, which is likely attributable to the primary use of atypical antipsychotics in this setting.
Alexander Garden (1730-1791) was born in Scotland, where he trained in medicine before settling in South Carolina in 1752. With a passion for collecting and a love of nature, he sent specimens to Linnaeus and his associates in Europe. In 1774, Garden observed and conducted electrical experiments on some &quot;eels&quot; that had survived the trip from Surinam to Charleston. His detailed observations and reasons for believing they emit electricity were read before the Royal Society of London and subsequently published. He also advised the sea captain who owned the eels on how to preserve them and where to deliver their bodies if they died en route to London. Although they did die en route, John Hunter of the Royal Society was able to provide excellent descriptions of their electric organs because they were so well preserved. The sequence of events that followed led to other live eels surviving the voyage to London, where they were observed to spark in darkness in 1776. This was a critical piece of evidence in favor of fish electricity and eventually for the more revolutionary idea that even human nerves and muscles might function electrically.
Cognitive brain mapping is a neuroscience fad, with hundreds of reports published each month. Such popularity requires careful attention to experimental design and data analysis in order to minimize false findings. In my view, cognitive brain mapping consists of procedures that allow such troublesome items as data-dredging and confirmation bias to affect study outcomes. This article discusses these issues and makes suggestions for enhancing the validity and reliability of the findings.
There is clear evidence that sustained experiences may affect both brain structure and function. Thus, it is quite reasonable to posit that sustained exposure to a set of cultural experiences and behavioral practices will affect neural structure and function. The burgeoning field of cultural psychology has often demonstrated the subtle differences in the way individuals process information-differences that appear to be a product of cultural experiences. We review evidence that the collectivistic and individualistic biases of East Asian and Western cultures, respectively, affect neural structure and function. We conclude that there is limited evidence that cultural experiences affect brain structure and considerably more evidence that neural function is affected by culture, particularly activations in ventral visual cortex-areas associated with perceptual processing.
The causes of epilepsies and epileptic seizures are multifactorial. Genetic predisposition may contribute in certain types of epilepsies and seizures, whether idiopathic or symptomatic of genetic origin. Although these are not very common, they have offered a unique opportunity to investigate the molecular mechanisms underlying epileptogenesis and ictogenesis. Among the implicated gene mutations, a number of GABAA receptor subunit mutations have been recently identified that contribute to several idiopathic epilepsies, febrile seizures, and rarely to certain types of symptomatic epilepsies, like the severe myoclonic epilepsy of infancy. Deletion of GABAA receptor genes has also been linked to Angelman syndrome. Furthermore, mutations of proteins controlling chloride homeostasis, which indirectly defines the functional consequences of GABAA signaling, have been identified. These include the chloride channel 2 (CLCN2) and the potassium chloride cotransporter KCC3. The pathogenic role of CLCN2 mutations has not been clearly demonstrated and may represent either susceptibility genes or, in certain cases, innocuous polymorphisms. KCC3 mutations have been associated with hereditary motor and sensory polyneuropathy with corpus callosum agenesis (Andermann syndrome) that often manifests with epileptic seizures. This review summarizes the recent progress in the genetic linkages of epilepsies and seizures to the above genes and discusses potential pathogenic mechanisms that contribute to the age, sex, and conditional expression of these seizures in carriers of these mutations.
Mutations of human CaV1.2 channel gene were identified only recently. The gain-of-function mutations were found at two mutually exclusive exons in patients with Timothy syndrome (TS). These patients exhibit prolonged QT interval and lethal cardiac arrhythmias. In contrast, the loss-of-function mutations of CaV1.2 channel in patients with Brugada syndrome produce short QT interval that could result in sudden cardiac death. TS patients also suffer from multi-organ dysfunction that includes neurological disorder such as autism and mental retardation reflecting the wide tissue distribution of CaV1.2 channel. Mutations found on different mutually exclusive exons determine the severity of the disease. Unexpectedly, TS patients may develop recurrent infections and bronchitis that suggests a role of CaV1.2 channel in the immune system. Furthermore, recent reports revealed a linkage of CaV1.2 channel polymorphism with multiple central nervous system disorders including bipolar disorder, depression, and schizophrenia. Here, we will discuss how alternative splicing modulates CaV1.2 channelopathy and the role of CaV1.2 channel in both excitable and non-excitable tissues.
Objective: Cannabis intake has been reported to affect cognitive functions such as selective attention. This study addressed the effects of exposure to cannabis with up to 69.4mg Delta(9)-tetrahydrocannabinol (THC) on Event-Related Potentials (ERPs) recorded during a visual selective attention task. Methods: Twenty-four participants smoked cannabis cigarettes with four doses of THC on four test days in a randomized, double blind, placebo-controlled, crossover study. Two hours after THC exposure the participants performed a visual selective attention task and concomitant ERPs were recorded. Results: Accuracy decreased linearly and reaction times increased linearly with THC dose. However, performance measures and most of the ERP components related specifically to selective attention did not show significant dose effects. Only in relatively light cannabis users the Occipital Selection Negativity decreased linearly with dose. Furthermore, ERP components reflecting perceptual processing, as well as the P300 component, decreased in amplitude after THC exposure. Only the former effect showed a linear dose-response relation. Conclusions: The decrements in performance and ERP amplitudes induced by exposure to cannabis with high THC content resulted from a non-selective decrease in attentional or processing resources. Significance: Performance requiring attentional resources, such as vehicle control, may be compromised several hours after smoking cannabis cigarettes containing high doses of THC, as presently available in Europe and Northern America.

The use of histone deacetylase inhibitors (HDACIs) as a therapeutic tool for neurodegenerative disorders has been examined with great interest in the last decade. The functional response to treatment with broad-spectrum inhibitors however, has been heterogeneous: protective in some cases and detrimental in others. In this review we discuss potential underlying causes for these apparently contradictory results. Because HDACs are part of repressive complexes, the functional outcome has been characteristically attributed to enhanced gene expression due to increased acetylation of lysine residues on nucleosomal histones. However, it is important to take into consideration that the up-regulation of diverse sets of genes (i.e. pro-apoptotic and anti-apoptotic) may orchestrate different responses in diverse cell types. An alternative possibility is that broad-spectrum pharmacological inhibition may target nuclear or cytosolic HDAC isoforms, with distinct non-histone substrates (i.e. transcription factors; cytoskeletal proteins). Thus, for any given neurological disorder, it is important to take into account the effect of HDACIs on neuronal, glial and inflammatory cells and define the relative contribution of distinct HDAC isoforms to the pathological process. This review article addresses how opposing effects on distinct cell types may profoundly influence the overall therapeutic potential of HDAC inhibitors when investigating treatments for neurodegenerative disorders.
Evidence is accumulating indicating that some protein kinase C (PKC) isozymes play an essential role in various phases as well as types of learning and memory. Abnormal functions of PKC signal cascades in the brains have been found to represent one of the earliest changes in patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD) and other types of memory deficits, including those related to cerebral ischemic/stroke events. In preclinical studies, an inhibition or impairment of PKC activity leads to compromised learning and memory, whereas an appropriate activation of some PKC isozymes results in an enhancement of learning and memory and/or antidementic effects against memory disorders. PKC activators not only increase activity of PKC isozymes and thereby restore PKC signaling activity, including neurotrophic activity, synaptic/structural remodeling, and synaptogenesis in the hippocampus and related cortical areas, but also reduce the accumulation of neurotoxic amyloid and tau protein hyperphosphorylation in the brain. These observations strongly suggest that PKC isoform pharmacology may represent an attractive area for the development of cognition-enhancing agents and therapeutics against memory loss in the future.
The aim of this study was to assess the practicality, reliability and safety of a recently introduced method of skin preparation for EEG recordings. We compared the traditional skin abrasion (SA) method to a method called SurePrep (SP), which creates tiny incisions through the upper epithelial layers. The study comprised three parts. In part 1, forearm recordings (n = 400; ten healthy volunteers) were conducted to examine acute and late (24 h) impedances, skin reactions, as well as the effects on electrode movement artefacts. In part 2, the effect of repeated (up to nine) SP sticks on impedances was examined on the forearm skin in two subjects (n = 99). In part 3, preparation speed and skin impedances were measured from preparation of a standard EEG cap in four subjects (n = 74). Immediately after preparation, skin impedances were a little lower (n.s.) after SA, but the variability in impedances was significantly less after SP (p &lt; 0.01). After one day, there was no mean impedance difference but a greater proportion of SP sites were &gt;10 kOmega. The frequency of immediate skin irritations (93.5%) was much higher after SA compared to 42.5% after SP, but there was no clinically significant difference observed after one day. The SP method exposed interstitial fluid in 5% of cases, while SA caused a wound-like lesion in 4.5% of the sites. No macroscopic blood was observed in any case (n = 400). Three sticks with the SP device produced clinically sufficient (&lt;10 kOmega) impedances in 85% of the cases, and a total of five to six sticks secured a sufficient skin contact in all skin sites examined (n = 99). Preparation of skin contacts in the EEG cap was faster by SP compared to SA in all four study subjects. Our results demonstrate that skin contacts of sufficient quality can be reliably, easily and quickly prepared by the SP method. SP is a useful alternative for EEG recordings in general, although SA may provide the slightly better preserved skin contacts needed for long-term recordings. Notably, SP could facilitate emergency care units, peripheral hospitals and after-hours EEG acquisition by people without special EEG training.
Synchronous rhythms represent a core mechanism for sculpting temporal coordination of neural activity in the brain-wide network. This review focuses on oscillations in the cerebral cortex that occur during cognition, in alert behaving conditions. Over the last two decades, experimental and modeling work has made great strides in elucidating the detailed cellular and circuit basis of these rhythms, particularly gamma and theta rhythms. The underlying physiological mechanisms are diverse (ranging from resonance and pacemaker properties of single cells to multiple scenarios for population synchronization and wave propagation), but also exhibit unifying principles. A major conceptual advance was the realization that synaptic inhibition plays a fundamental role in rhythmogenesis, either in an interneuronal network or in a reciprocal excitatory-inhibitory loop. Computational functions of synchronous oscillations in cognition are still a matter of debate among systems neuroscientists, in part because the notion of regular oscillation seems to contradict the common observation that spiking discharges of individual neurons in the cortex are highly stochastic and far from being clocklike. However, recent findings have led to a framework that goes beyond the conventional theory of coupled oscillators and reconciles the apparent dichotomy between irregular single neuron activity and field potential oscillations. From this perspective, a plethora of studies will be reviewed on the involvement of long-distance neuronal coherence in cognitive functions such as multisensory integration, working memory, and selective attention. Finally, implications of abnormal neural synchronization are discussed as they relate to mental disorders like schizophrenia and autism.
Musculoskeletal disorders are prevalent and a major burden on individuals and society. Information on relationships of patient involvement and responsibility to outcome is limited. This study aimed to explore relationships between self-reported outcome of physiotherapy treatment and attitudes toward responsibility for musculoskeletal disorders. A cross-sectional postal survey design was used. Patients (n=615) from an outpatient physiotherapy clinic, who had finished their physiotherapy treatment within the last 6 months were sent a questionnaire that included the Attitudes regarding Responsibility for Musculoskeletal disorders instrument (ARM), self-reported outcome of treatment and sociodemographic data. A total of 279 (45%) completed forms were returned. Multiple logistic regression analysis was used. The patients' scores on the four dimensions of ARM (&quot;responsibility self active,&quot; &quot;responsibility out of my hands,&quot; &quot;responsibility employer,&quot; and &quot;responsibility medical professionals&quot;), controlled for age, sex, education, and physical activity as well as for number of treatments, main treatment, and physiotherapist, were associated with the patients' self-reported treatment outcome. Patients who attributed responsibility more to themselves were more likely (OR 2.37 and over) to report considerable improvement as the outcome of physiotherapy treatment. Because this study was conducted at only one physiotherapy outpatient clinic and had a cross-sectional design, the results should be replicated in other settings. Because patients' attitudes regarding responsibility for musculoskeletal disorders can possibly affect the outcome of physiotherapy treatment, it might be useful to decide whether to systematically try to influence the person's attitude toward responsibility for the management of the disorder or to match treatment to attitude.
Dammarane-type saponins (1-7), together with five known compounds, were isolated from the aerial parts of Gynostemma pentaphyllum. Compounds 1-4, 6 and 7 induced the phosphorylation of ERK protein in primary rat cortical neurons, which indicates their potential neuroactivity. On the other hand, no induction of ERK phosphorylation was observed for HEK293 cells following treatment with saponins 1, 3, 4 and 7.
Two new secoiridoid glucosides, namely iso-oleonuezhenide (1) and methyloleoside 7-ethyl ester (2), along with five known ones, oleonuezhenide (3), nuezhenide (4), oleuropein (5), G13 (6), and jaspolyside methyl ester (7), were isolated from the fruits of Ligustrum lucidum. Their structures were assigned based on 1H-NMR, 13C-NMR, and 2D-NMR analyses, in combination with HR-MS experiments and the comparison with literature data of related compounds, as well as on chemical experiments. We have examined the ability of these compounds to activate ERK and CREB in cultured cortical neurons. Our studies demonstrate that compound 1 induces ERK and CREB phosphorylation in primary cortical neurons in a dose- and temporal-dependent manner, suggesting its bioactivity on neurons.
The firing rate of single neurons in the mammalian hippocampus has been demonstrated to encode for a range of spatial and non-spatial stimuli. It has also been demonstrated that phase of firing, with respect to the theta oscillation that dominates the hippocampal EEG during stereotype learning behaviour, correlates with an animal's spatial location. These findings have led to the hypothesis that the hippocampus operates using a dual (rate and temporal) coding system. To investigate the phenomenon of dual coding in the hippocampus, we examine a spiking recurrent network model with theta coded neural dynamics and an STDP rule that mediates rate-coded Hebbian learning when pre- and post-synaptic firing is stochastic. We demonstrate that this plasticity rule can generate both symmetric and asymmetric connections between neurons that fire at concurrent or successive theta phase, respectively, and subsequently produce both pattern completion and sequence prediction from partial cues. This unifies previously disparate auto- and hetero-associative network models of hippocampal function and provides them with a firmer basis in modern neurobiology. Furthermore, the encoding and reactivation of activity in mutually exciting Hebbian cell assemblies demonstrated here is believed to represent a fundamental mechanism of cognitive processing in the brain.
Infant survival and the development of secure and cooperative relationships are central to the future of the species. In humans, this relies heavily on the evolving early parent-infant social and affective relationship. While much is known about the behavioural and psychological components of this relationship, relatively little is known about the underlying functional neuroanatomy. Affective and social neuroscience has helped to describe the main adult brain networks involved, but has so far engaged very little with developmental findings. In this review, we seek to highlight future avenues for research by providing a coherent framework for describing the parent-infant relationship over the first 18 months. We provide an outline of the evolving nature of the relationship, starting with basic orienting and recognition processes, and culminating in the infant's attainment of higher socio-emotional and cognitive capacities. Key social and affective interactions, such as communication, cooperative play and the establishment of specific attachments propel the development of the parent-infant relationship. We summarise our current knowledge of the developing infant brain in terms of structure and function, and how these relate to the emergent abilities necessary for the formation of a secure and cooperative relationship with parents or other caregivers. Important roles have been found for brain regions including the orbitofrontal, cingulate, and insular cortices in parent-infant interactions, but it has become clear that much more information is needed about the developmental time course and connectivity of these regions.
An open issue of retinal organization and function is the comprehension of the different tasks specifically performed by bipolar cells, the neurons that collect information from photoreceptors in the outer retina and convey the signal to the inner plexiform layer. Particularly interesting is to understand the unique contribution to the visual signal brought by cone bipolar cells, neurons typical of the mammalian retina and especially dedicated to receive synaptic input from cones. In all the species studied so far, it has been shown that cone bipolar cells occur in about ten different types, which form distinct clusters identified with a panel of both classical and modern genetic methods. Reviewed here is current literature illustrating the occurrence of morphological, molecular and architectural features that confer to each bipolar cell type exclusive fingerprints, ultimately predicting the emergence of similarly unique, albeit still partially unraveled, functional properties. Thus, differences among cone bipolar cells lay the ground for the genesis in the outer retina of parallel channels, which convey to the inner retina separate information, among others, about contrast, chromatic features and temporal properties of the visual signal.
Depressive symptoms in the community have a considerable impact on quality of life. Although long-chain polyunsaturated fatty acids (LCPUFA) have frequently been implicated in depressed mood, their relationship with quality of life has scarcely been investigated. This study examined the cross-sectional associations between fish consumption and plasma phospholipid LCPUFA status on the one hand, and quality of life, as measured by the Short Form 36 questionnaire, on the other in a population-based sample. The mental health component of quality of life was not associated with LCPUFA status or fish consumption. Fish consumption showed a positive association with physical well-being, which remained significant after correction for LCPUFA status, suggesting that the relationship between fish consumption and physical well-being is independent of the LCPUFA content of fish. These findings indicate that fish consumption may serve as a proxy for a healthy lifestyle or a favorable nutritional status, which is reflected in better quality of life.
In the present work we prepared chitosan-coated alginate beads, to use as a chemical chaperone based on the electrostatic interaction between the carboxylate groups of alginate and the ammonium groups of chitosan. This procedure was an attempt for designing a highly efficient chemical chaperone to improve protein stability and refolding. Based on enzyme recovered activity, turbidity, far-UV CD and fluorescence data, alkaline phosphatase can be stabilized and refolded to a higher degree in the presence of alginate capsules compared with unassisted form and was further improved by including chitosan. Finally the maximum yield was obtained when the refolding process was achieved under a well worked out temperature program: incubation of the captured-enzyme for 20 min at 4 degrees C followed by overnight incubation at 22 degrees C, which showed that aggregation is a major limitation to refolding.




The stereotype of women's limited parking skills is deeply anchored in modern culture. Although laboratory tests prove men's average superiority in visuospatial tasks and parking requires complex, spatial skills, underlying mechanisms remain unexplored. Here, we investigated performance of beginners (nine women, eight men) and more experienced drivers (21 women, 27 men) at different parking manoeuvres. Furthermore, subjects conducted the mental rotation test and self-assessed their parking skills. We show that men park more accurately and especially faster than women. Performance is related to mental rotation skills and self-assessment in beginners, but only to self-assessment in more experienced drivers. We assume that, due to differential feedback, self-assessment incrementally replaces the controlling influence of mental rotation, as parking is trained with increasing experience. Results suggest that sex differences in spatial cognition persist in real-life situations, but that socio-psychological factors modulate the biological causes of sex differences.
Neurobiological research of obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD) has rarely taken in account the context dependent evocation of obsessive-compulsive symptoms. To bypass this obstacle, this study investigated neurobiological parameters during a standardized disgust provocation paradigm in patients with OCD and healthy controls. Ten OCD patients and 10 healthy controls were exposed to 9 disgust related items using a standardized provocation paradigm. Catecholamines and cortisol in plasma and lipopolysaccharide (LPS) stimulated levels of TNF-alpha and IL-6 by peripheral leucocytes were assessed along with severity of obsessive-compulsive symptoms, disgust, and anxiety levels using Visual Analogue Scales prior, during and after a provocation paradigm. Noradrenalin levels increased, while LPS stimulated TNF-alpha and IL-6 by peripheral leucocytes decreased during exposure to disgust related objects in OCD patients but not in healthy controls. Cortisol levels were not affected by exposure neither in patients nor in controls, but overall cortisol levels of OCD patients were increased compared to controls. In conclusion, our data suggests that symptom provocation in OCD patients with contamination fear is accompanied by alterations in the immune and neuroendocrine systems but does not affect cortisol levels.
CRF receptor subtype 1 (CRF1), abundantly expressed in the central nervous system, has been implicated in defensive behavior in rodents. Pharmacological activation of CRF1 by peptidic agonists results in enhancement of anxiety-like behavior. However, receptor specificity of commonly used agonists was confounded by significant affinity to other receptors and widely used laboratory tests of experimental anxiety suffer from artificial aversive stimulation (e.g. electric shock), and limited measures of anxiety-like behavior. We used the recently developed, CRF1-selective agonist cortagine in a mouse model of defensive behaviors under semi-natural conditions, the rat exposure test (RET). Cortagine was injected bilaterally into the cerebral ventricles (i.c.v.) of male C57Bl/6J mice, 20min before exposure to a rat in specifically designed box that evokes a wide variety of defensive behaviors such as active/passive avoidance, freezing, risk assessment, and burying. Pre-injection of the CRF receptor antagonist acidic astressin was used to test for receptor specificity of the observed cortagine effects. A control experiment with no rat present was performed to test for baseline effects of cortagine in the exposure setup. Cortagine dose-dependently enhanced passive avoidance and freezing while burying was decreased. CRF receptor antagonism reliably blocked the effects of cortagine. Our results confirm previous findings of anxiogenic-like effects of cortagine, and demonstrate the usefulness of the RET in investigating differential pattering of drug-induced anxiety-like behavior in mice. In conclusion, our results suggest that CRF1 activation in forebrain areas promotes passive coping with the natural threat presented in the RET.





Human brain theta rhythm has been related to the operation of a generic mechanism involved in error detection processes of different types (e.g., detecting incorrect motor responses or incorrect arithmetic equations). This theta activity seems to be sensitive to error salience or magnitude, that is, stronger theta activity is found with larger or more deviant errors (e.g., 1+2=8) than with smaller or less deviant ones (e.g., 1+2=4). A time-frequency decomposition analysis indicated that theta activity is modulated by the magnitude of erroneous information in a nonlinear fashion, which can be characterized using Weber-Fechner's law of logarithmic function and Stevens' law of power function. The present study suggests that the generic mechanisms for error detection and evaluation may share similar fundamental neural schemes with primary cognitive and sensory or perceptual processes, which are directly involved in processing the specific type of input.

Embryonic stem cells and induced pluripotent stem cells are characterized by their ability to self-renew and differentiate into any cell type. The molecular mechanism behind this process is a complex interplay between the transcriptional factors with epigenetic regulators and signaling pathways. miRNAs are an integral part of this regulatory network, with essential roles in pluripotent maintenance, proliferation and differentiation. miRNAs are a class of small noncoding RNAs that target protein-encoding mRNA to inhibit translation and protein synthesis. Discovered close to 20 years ago, miRNAs have rapidly emerged as key regulatory molecules in several critical cellular processes across species. Recent studies have begun to clarify the specific role of miRNA in regulatory circuitries that control self-renewal and pluripotency of both embryonic stem cells and induced pluripotent stem cells. These advances suggest a critical role for miRNAs in the process of reprogramming somatic cells to pluripotent cells.


CELF (CUG-BP and ETR-3-like factors) proteins are structurally related RNA-binding proteins involved in various aspects of RNA processing including splicing and mRNA stability. The first member of the family, CELF1/CUG-BP1, was identified through its role in myotonic dystrophy, type 1. Several recent studies have uncovered the recurrent implication, to various extents, of CELF proteins or of the functionally related muscleblind-like 1 protein in a number of neurological conditions. This is particularly clear for inherited neurodegenerative disorders caused by expansions of translated or untranslated triplet repeats in the causative gene. Here we review the role played by CELF proteins, at least as modifiers of the pathological phenotype, in a number of neurological diseases. The involvement of CELF proteins suggest that individual pathogenic pathways in a number of neurological conditions overlap at the level of RNA processing.




Whether avoidant personality disorder symptoms are related to neurocognitive impairments that aggregate in relatives of schizophrenics is unknown. We report the relationship between avoidant personality disorder symptoms and neurocognitive performance in the first-degree relatives of probands with schizophrenia. 367 first-degree relatives of probands with schizophrenia and 245 relatives of community controls were interviewed for the presence of avoidant personality symptoms and symptoms of paranoid and schizotypal personality disorders and administered neurocognitive measures. Relationships between neurocognitive measures and avoidant symptoms were analyzed using linear mixed models. Avoidant dimensional scores predicted performance on the span of apprehension (SPAN), 3-7 Continuous Performance Test (3-7 CPT), and Trail Making Test (TMT-B) in schizophrenia relatives. These relationships remained significant on the SPAN even after adjustment for paranoid or schizotypal dimensional scores and on the TMT-B after adjustment for paranoid dimensional scores. Moreover, in a second set of analyses comparing schizophrenia relatives to controls there were significant or trending differences in the degree of the relationship between avoidant symptoms and each of these neurocognitive measures even after adjustments for paranoid and schizotypal dimensional scores. The substantial correlation between avoidant and schizotypal symptoms suggests that these personality disorders are not independent. Avoidant and in some cases schizotypal dimensional scores are significant predictors of variability in these neurocognitive measures. In all analyses, higher levels of avoidant symptoms were associated with worse performance on the neurocognitive measures in relatives of schizophrenia probands. These results support the hypothesis that avoidant personality disorder may be a schizophrenia spectrum phenotype.

Epidemiologic data on convulsive status epilepticus (CSE) is needed to develop preventative strategies. Epilepsy is one of the known risk factors for CSE. A systematic review of epidemiologic studies on status epilepticus (SE) completed in the United States and Europe reports that people with epilepsy account for less than 50% of cases of SE in all age groups. Less is known about the epidemiology of SE in developing countries including those in Central America. A high incidence of epilepsy, widespread non-adherence to anti-epileptic drugs (AED), and common use of complementary and alternative medicines have been shown in all ages in the developing country of Honduras, Central America. In 2003, an epidemiologic study of CSE in Honduran children demonstrated it is common and exhibits a long duration until onset of treatment. The etiologies, treatment, and outcomes of CSE in Honduran adults have not been thoroughly studied. This study is a consecutive case series of 31 adult patients presenting with CSE to the adult medicine emergency department of the tertiary care &quot;Hospital Escuela&quot; in the capital city Tegucigalpa, Honduras. The majority (77.4%) of patients had a prior history of epilepsy. Non-adherence to AED was the most common etiology of CSE (75.0%). The mortality rate in this pilot CSE study was 14.8%, which is similar to studies from industrialized countries where mortality from status epilepticus ranged from 7.6 to 22% for all age groups. However, this rate is concerning given that CSE from epilepsy and AED non-adherence generally carries a good prognosis. Improving AED adherence in this population appears to be the most effective approach in decreasing the rate, and possibly the mortality of Honduran adult CSE.
It is well established that the neurotransmitter norepinephrine (NE) has anticonvulsant properties. However, NE may also have proconvulsant properties under some conditions, both in animal epilepsy models and in humans. This paper examines the hypothesis that this neurotransmitter has proconvulsant properties, where much of the pharmaceutical evidence comes from rodent models. In assessing the elevated NE epilepsy hypothesis, the following seven lines of evidence are examined that include studies of: (1) antidepressants that raise the level of NE; (2) clonidine and other alpha 2 adrenergic agonist drugs that lower the level of NE; (3) prazosin and other drugs that affect alpha adrenoceptors; (4) propranolol and other drugs that affect beta adrenoceptors; (5) pheochromocytoma, which is a rare cancer of the adrenal glands that can boost NE levels; (6) comorbidity of epilepsy with bipolar disorder, hypertension, and obesity, where all four conditions may involve elevated NE; and (7) psychological stress, which is associated with increased release of NE. The body of evidence supporting the NE proconvulsant hypothesis is consistent with the notion that elevated, endogenous noradrenergic transmission is an etiological factor in some cases of epilepsy.

The present study was intended to investigate personality characteristics and mental health of severe driving under influence (DUI) offenders in a Swedish cohort. More specifically the aim was to investigate the personality traits as assessed by The NEO personality inventory (NEO-PI-R) and aspects of mental health as assessed by the symptom checklist (SCL-90) as compared to the general population. The subjects were 162 severe DUI offenders (with the BAC &gt;0.099%) with an age range of 18-88 years, 143 males and 19 females. It was found that the openness to experience and conscientiousness scales of NEO-PI-R differentiated Swedish DUI offenders from Swedish norm population. The differences between the DUI group and the general population on the on SCL-90 scales were all significant except on the Hostility scale. Two main subtypes of DUI offenders identified were roughly comparable to types I and II alcoholics, as in Cloninger's typology. Among all the scales used (personality traits, psychiatric comorbidity and alcohol use), the only factor that was predictive for future relapses to drunk driving was the factor of depression.




Nitric oxide (NO) was described to inhibit the proliferation of neural stem cells. Some evidence suggests that NO, under certain conditions, can also promote cell proliferation, although the mechanisms responsible for a potential proliferative effect of NO in neural stem cells have remained unaddressed. In this work, we investigated and characterized the proliferative effect of NO in cell cultures obtained from the mouse subventricular zone. We found that the NO donor NOC-18 (10 microM) increased cell proliferation, whereas higher concentrations (100 microM) inhibited cell proliferation. Increased cell proliferation was detected rapidly following exposure to NO and was prevented by blocking the mitogen-activated kinase (MAPK) pathway, independently of the epidermal growth factor (EGF) receptor. Downstream of the EGF receptor, NO activated p21Ras and the MAPK pathway, resulting in a decrease in the nuclear presence of the cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitor 1, p27(KIP1), allowing for cell cycle progression. Furthermore, in a mouse model that shows increased proliferation of neural stem cells in the hippocampus following seizure injury, we observed that the absence of inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS(-/-) mice) prevented the increase in cell proliferation observed following seizures in wild-type mice, showing that NO from iNOS origin is important for increased cell proliferation following a brain insult. Overall, we show that NO is able to stimulate the proliferation of neural stem cells bypassing the EGF receptor and promoting cell division. Moreover, under pathophysiological conditions in vivo, NO from iNOS origin also promotes proliferation in the hippocampus.
Cell replacement therapy could be an important treatment strategy for Parkinson's disease (PD), which is caused by the degeneration of dopamine neurons in the midbrain (mDA). The success of this approach greatly relies on the discovery of an abundant source of cells capable of mDAergic function in the brain. With the paucity of available human fetal tissue, efforts have increasingly focused on renewable stem cells. Human induced pluripotent stem (hiPS) cells offer great promise in this regard. If hiPS cells can be differentiated into authentic mDA neuron, hiPS could provide a potential autologous source of transplant tissue when generated from PD patients, a clear advantage over human embryonic stem (hES) cells. Here, we report that mDA neurons can be derived from a commercially available hiPS cell line, IMR90 clone 4, using a modified hES differentiation protocol established in our lab. These cells express all the markers (Lmx1a, Aldh1a1, TH, TrkB), follow the same mDA lineage pathway as H9 hES cells, and have similar expression levels of DA and DOPAC. Moreover, when hiPS mDA progenitor cells are transplanted into 6-OHDA-lesioned PD rats, they survive long term and many develop into bona fide mDA neurons. Despite their differentiation and integration into the brain, many Nestin+ tumor-like cells remain at the site of the graft. Our data suggest that as with hES cells, selecting the appropriate population of mDA lineage cells and eliminating actively dividing hiPS cells before transplantation will be critical for the future success of hiPS cell replacement therapy in PD patients.



The need for positron emission tomography (PET)-radioligands that are sensitive to changes in endogenous serotonin (5-HT) levels in brain is recognized in experimental and clinical psychiatric research. We recently developed the novel PET radioligand [(11)C]AZ10419369 that is highly selective for the 5-HT(1B) receptor. In this PET-study in three cynomolgus monkeys, we examined the sensitivity of [(11)C]AZ10419369 to altered endogenous 5-HT levels. Fenfluramine-induced 5-HT release decreased radioligand binding in a dose-dependent fashion with a regional average of 27% after 1 mg/kg and 50% after 5 mg/kg. This preliminary study supports that [(11)C]AZ10419369 is sensitive to endogenous 5-HT levels in vivo and may serve as a tool to examine the pathophysiology and treatment of major psychiatric disorders.
Our laboratory has recently demonstrated altered expression of phosphodiesterase (PDE) 4A and 4B in subjects with autism, bipolar disorder, and schizophrenia, suggesting disrupted cAMP signaling in these diagnostic groups. In the current study, we measured expression of PDEs in rat frontal cortex (FC) following chronic treatment with clozapine, fluoxetine, haloperidol, lithium, olanzapine, valproic acid (VPA), or sterile saline for 21 days. Western blotting experiments showed decreased expression of PDE4A subtypes in FC following treatment with clozapine, haloperidol, lithium, and VPA. PDE4B subtypes were similarly reduced in FC following treatment with clozapine, fluoxetine, and lithium. We also measured levels of nine PDE subtypes via qRT-PCR in FC and found significant upregulation of PDE1A and PDE8B following treatment with olanzapine, while treatment with lithium reduced expression of mRNA for PDE8B. Our results demonstrate altered expression of PDE4A and PDE4B in response to a variety of psychotropic medications suggesting potentially new therapeutic avenues for treatment of neuropsychiatric diseases.
The importance of the BAR domain of endophilin in synaptic vesicle endocytosis was tested in presynaptic microinjection experiments in the lamprey giant synapse. Antibodies as well as Fab fragments directed to the BAR domain caused a stimulus-dependent decrease in the number of synaptic vesicles along with an accumulation of shallow clathrin coated pits in the periactive zone. Moreover, the isolated BAR domain protein also caused an accumulation of shallow-coated pits in the periactive zone, in addition to appearance of narrow tubules in synaptic regions. The BAR domain of endophilin is thus required for efficient progression of the synaptic vesicle cycle.
Occlusal disharmony is induced by various conditions such as the loss of teeth and inappropriate vertical dimension of crowns, bridges, or dentures. Occlusal disharmony sometimes causes indefinite complaint syndromes, which may be associated with astrocytic hypertrophy and the reduction of numbers of neuronal somata and their dendritic spines in the hippocampus. Microglia monitors the condition of neurons and responds to their degeneration accompanying with astrocytes. However, the effect of occlusal disharmony on the microglia has not yet been investigated. We artificially increased the occlusal vertical dimension by placing dental resin on the upper molars in mice and immunohistochemically investigated the effects of the increase in the vertical dimension on microglia of the hippocampal formation using an antibody against ionized calcium-binding adaptor molecule 1 (Iba-1), a marker protein for microglia. We measured the area occupied by Iba-1-immunoreactive microglia in the hippocampal CA1 region and dentate gyrus 1, 3, and 5 days after increasing the vertical dimension, and compared it with that of control mice. The hippocampal CA1 region contains vulnerable neurons and the dentate gyrus durable neurons. We found that the areas occupied by microglia in the hippocampal CA1 region increased, with the peak on the third day after increasing the vertical dimension, and it gradually declined by the fifth post-operative day. However, such an increase of the area occupied by microglia was not seen in the dentate gyrus. In conclusion, abnormal mastication may activate microglia in the area harboring vulnerable neurons, but not in the area harboring durable neurons.
Cone snails are carnivorous marine gastropods that have evolved potent venoms to capture their prey. These venoms comprise a rich and diverse cocktail of peptide toxins, or conopeptides, whose high diversity has arisen from an efficient hypermutation mechanism, combined with a high frequency of post-translational modifications. Conopeptides bind with high specificity to distinct membrane receptors, ion channels, and transporters of the central and muscular nervous system. As well as serving their natural function in prey capture, conopeptides have been utilized as versatile tools in neuroscience and have proven valuable as drug leads that target the nervous system in humans. This paper examines current knowledge on conopeptide sequences based on an analysis of gene and peptide sequences in ConoServer (http://www.conoserver.org), a specialized database of conopeptide sequences and three-dimensional structures. We describe updates to the content and organization of ConoServer and discuss correlations between gene superfamilies, cysteine frameworks, pharmacological families targeted by conopeptides, and the phylogeny, habitat, and diet of cone snails. The study identifies gaps in current knowledge of conopeptides and points to potential directions for future research.
C-tail-anchored (TA) proteins constitute a heterogeneous group of membrane proteins that are inserted into membranes by unique post-translational mechanisms and that play key roles within cells. During recent years, bioinformatic screens on eukaryotic genomes have helped to obtain comprehensive pictures of the number, intracellular distribution and functions of TA proteins, but similar screens had not yet been carried out on prokaryotic cells. Here, we report the results of a bioinformatic screen of the genomes of two bacteria and one archeon. We find that all three of these prokaryotes contain TA proteins in proportions approaching those found in eukaryotic cells, indicating that this protein group is present in all three domains of life. Although some of our hits correspond to proteins of unknown function, others are enzymes with hydrophobic substrates or have functions carried out at the inner face of the cytoplasmic membrane. To generate hypotheses on the insertion mechanisms of prokaryotic TA proteins, we compared the sequences of the prokaryotic and eukaryotic versions of Asna1/Trc40/GET3, a cytosolic ATPase that plays a key role in TA protein post-translational delivery to membranes in eukaryotic cells. We found that hydrophobic residues involved in TA binding by the eukaryotic chaperone (Mateja et al., Nature 2009;461:361-366) are generally replaced with equally hydrophobic amino acids in the archeal homologue (ArsA), whereas this is not the case for the bacterial protein. Thus, eukaryotes may have inherited the GET3 targeting pathway from our archeal ancestor, while the bacterial homologue may be exclusively dedicated to heavy metal resistance.
In neuroendocrine cells, annexin-A2 is implicated as a promoter of monosialotetrahexosylganglioside (GM1)-containing lipid microdomains that are required for calcium-regulated exocytosis. As soluble N-ethylmaleimide-sensitive factor attachment protein receptors (SNAREs) require a specific lipid environment to mediate granule docking and fusion, we investigated whether annexin-A2-induced lipid microdomains might be linked to the SNAREs present at the plasma membrane. Stimulation of adrenergic chromaffin cells induces the translocation of cytosolic annexin-A2 to the plasma membrane, where it colocalizes with SNAP-25 and S100A10. Cross-linking experiments performed in stimulated chromaffin cells indicate that annexin-A2 directly interacts with S100A10 to form a tetramer at the plasma membrane. Here, we demonstrate that S100A10 can interact with vesicle-associated membrane protein 2 (VAMP2) and show that VAMP2 is present at the plasma membrane in resting adrenergic chromaffin cells. Tetanus toxin that cleaves VAMP2 solubilizes S100A10 from the plasma membrane and inhibits the translocation of annexin-A2 to the plasma membrane. Immunogold labelling of plasma membrane sheets combined with spatial point pattern analysis confirmed that S100A10 is present in VAMP2 microdomains at the plasma membrane and that annexin-A2 is observed close to S100A10 and to syntaxin in stimulated chromaffin cells. In addition, these results showed that the formation of phosphatidylinositol (4,5)-bisphosphate (PIP(2)) microdomains colocalized with S100A10 in the vicinity of docked granules, suggesting a functional interplay between annexin-A2-mediated lipid microdomains and SNAREs during exocytosis.
Working memory (WM) capacity predicts performance in a wide range of cognitive tasks. Although WM capacity has been viewed as a constant trait, recent studies suggest that it can be improved by adaptive and extended training. This training is associated with changes in brain activity in frontal and parietal cortex and basal ganglia, as well as changes in dopamine receptor density. Transfer of the training effects to non-trained WM tasks is consistent with the notion of training-induced plasticity in a common neural network for WM. The observed training effects suggest that WM training could be used as a remediating intervention for individuals for whom low WM capacity is a limiting factor for academic performance or in everyday life.

To understand gustatory physiology and associated dysfunctions it is important to know how oral taste stimuli are encoded both in the periphery and in taste-related brain centres. The identification of distinct taste receptors, together with electrophysiological recordings and behavioral assessments in response to taste stimuli, suggest that information about distinct taste modalities (e.g. sweet versus bitter) are transmitted from the periphery to the brain via segregated pathways. By contrast, gustatory neurons throughout the brain are more broadly tuned, indicating that ensembles of neurons encode taste qualities. Recent evidence reviewed here suggests that the coding of gustatory stimuli is not immutable, but is dependant on a variety of factors including appetite-regulating molecules and associative learning.
Irritable bowel syndrome is a common functional gastrointestinal disorder with characteristic symptoms of abdominal pain/discomfort with a concurrent disturbance in defecation. It accounts for a significant healthcare burden, and symptoms may be debilitating for some patients. Traditional symptom-based therapies have been found to be ineffective in the treatment of the entire syndrome complex, and do not modify the natural history of the disorder. Although the exact etiopathogenesis of IBS is incompletely understood, recent advances in the elucidation of the pathophysiology and molecular mechanisms of IBS have resulted in the development of novel therapies, as well as potential future therapeutic targets. This article reviews current and emerging therapies in IBS based upon: IBS as a serotonergic disorder; stimulating intestinal chloride channels; modulation of visceral hypersensitivity; altering low-grade intestinal inflammation; and modulation of the gut microbiota.
Addictive drugs (opiates, ethanol, cannabinoids (CBs), nicotine, cocaine, amphetamines) induce activation of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis, with the subsequent release of adrenocorticotropic hormone and glucocorticoids. The sequence of events leading to HPA activation appears to start within the brain, suggesting that activation is not secondary to peripheral homeostatic alterations. The precise neurochemical mechanisms and brain pathways involved are markedly dependent on the particular drug, although it is assumed that information eventually converges into the hypothalamic paraventricular nucleus (PVN). Whereas some drugs may act on the hypothalamus or directly within PVN neurons (i.e. ethanol), others exert their primary action outside the PVN (i.e. CBs, nicotine, cocaine). Corticotropin-releasing hormone (CRH) has a critical role in most cases, but the changes in c-fos and CRH gene expression in the PVN also reveal differences among drugs. More studies are needed to understand how addictive drugs act on this important neuroendocrine system and their functional consequences.
Formation of brain and spinal cord requires the successful closure of neural ectoderm into an embryonic neural tube. Defects in this process result in anencephaly or spina bifida, which together constitute a leading cause of mortality and morbidity in children, affecting all ethnic and socioeconomic groups. The subject of intensive research for decades, neural tube defects (NTDs), are understood to arise from complex interactions of genes and environmental conditions, though systems-level details are still elusive. Despite the variety of underlying causes, a single intervention, folic acid supplementation given in the first gestational month, can measurably reduce the occurrence of NTDs in a population. Evidence for and the scope of gene-environment interactions in the genesis of NTDs is discussed. A systems-based approach is now possible toward studies of genetic and environmental influences underlying NTDs that will enable the assessment of individual risk and personalized optimization of prevention.


The Barrow Neurological Institute (BNI), founded in 1961, is in partnership with St. Joseph's Hospital and Medical Center and part of the Catholic Healthcare West system. The BNI is a relative newcomer to academic neuroscience. However, since its inception it has grown to become an international destination for neurologic disease. This article describes the history of the institute as it has grown over the years in its commitment to excellence in patient care, education, and research.

Among the various non-neuronal cell types known to express and utilize neuropeptides, those of the immune system have received much attention in recent years. In particular, comparative studies in vertebrates and invertebrates have shown that endogenous opioid peptides are engaged in receptor mediated autoregulatory immune and neuroendocrine processes. The majority of these immune processes are stimulatory, as determined by their effects on conformational changes indicative of immunocyte activation, cellular motility, and phagocytosis. Endogenous opioid peptides form an effective network of messenger molecules in cooperation with cytokines, opiate alkaloids, and certain regulatory enzymes (neutral endopeptidase 24.11). Peptide-mediated immunostimulatory effects observed in this system are operationally counteracted by the inhibitory effects of morphine and related opiates. Opioid/opiate signaling processes are mediated by several types of receptors with different degrees of selectivity. Among them the recently identified, opioid insensitive (3) receptor deserves attention on account of its specificity for opiate alkaloids.


Catecholamine signaling pathways in the peripheral and central nervous systems (PNS, CNS, respectively) utilize catechol-O-methyltransferase (COMT) as a major regulatory enzyme responsible for deactivation of dopamine (DA), norepinephrine (NE) and epinephrine (E). Accordingly, homeostasis of COMT gene expression is hypothesized to be functionally linked to regulation of autonomic control of normotensive vascular events. Recently, we demonstrated that morphine administration in vitro resulted in decreased cellular concentrations of COMT-encoding mRNA levels, as compared to control values. In contrast, cells treated with E up regulated their COMT gene expression. In sum, these observations indicate a potential reciprocal linkage between end product inhibition of COMT gene expression by E and morphine. Interestingly, the observed effects of administered E on COMT gene expression suggest an enhancement of its own catabolism or, reciprocally, a stimulation morphine biosynthesis.
Sleep is one of the most pervasive biological phenomena, but one whose function remains elusive. Although many theories of function, indirect evidence, and even common sense suggest sleep is needed for an increase in brain energy, brain energy levels have not been directly measured with modern technology. We here report that ATP levels, the energy currency of brain cells, show a surge in the initial hours of spontaneous sleep in wake-active but not in sleep-active brain regions of rat. The surge is dependent on sleep but not time of day, since preventing sleep by gentle handling of rats for 3 or 6 h also prevents the surge in ATP. A significant positive correlation was observed between the surge in ATP and EEG non-rapid eye movement delta activity (0.5-4.5 Hz) during spontaneous sleep. Inducing sleep and delta activity by adenosine infusion into basal forebrain during the normally active dark period also increases ATP. Together, these observations suggest that the surge in ATP occurs when the neuronal activity is reduced, as occurs during sleep. The levels of phosphorylated AMP-activated protein kinase (P-AMPK), well known for its role in cellular energy sensing and regulation, and ATP show reciprocal changes. P-AMPK levels are lower during the sleep-induced ATP surge than during wake or sleep deprivation. Together, these results suggest that sleep-induced surge in ATP and the decrease in P-AMPK levels set the stage for increased anabolic processes during sleep and provide insight into the molecular events leading to the restorative biosynthetic processes occurring during sleep.
Neurons transport and position mitochondria using a combination of saltatory, bidirectional movements and stationary docking. Axonal mitochondria move along microtubules (MTs) using kinesin and dynein motors, but actin and myosin also play a poorly defined role in their traffic. To ascertain this role, we have used RNA interference (RNAi) to deplete specific myosin motors in cultured Drosophila neurons and quantified the effects on mitochondrial motility. We produced a fly strain expressing the Caenorhabditis elegans RNA transporter SID-1 in neurons to increase the efficacy of RNAi in primary cultures. These neurons exhibited significantly increased RNAi-mediated knockdown of gene expression compared with neurons not expressing this transporter. Using this system, we observed a significant increase in mitochondrial transport during myosin V depletion. Mitochondrial mean velocity and duty cycle were augmented in both anterograde and retrograde directions, and the fraction of mitochondrial flux contained in long runs almost doubled for anterograde movement. Myosin VI depletion increased the same movement parameters but was selective for retrograde movement, whereas myosin II depletion produced no phenotype. An additional effect of myosin V depletion was an increase in mitochondrial length. These data indicate that myosin V and VI play related but distinct roles in regulating MT-based mitochondrial movement: they oppose, rather than complement, protracted MT-based movements and perhaps facilitate organelle docking.
The characteristics of central pattern generator (CPG) outputs are subject to extensive modulation. Previous studies of neuromodulation largely focused on immediate actions of neuromodulators, i.e., actions that were exerted at the time when either neuromodulators were present or neuromodulatory inputs to the CPG were active. However, neuromodulatory actions are known to persist when neuromodulators are no longer present. In Aplysia, stimulation of cerebral-buccal interneuron-2 (CBI-2), which activates the feeding CPG, produces a repetition priming of motor programs. This priming is reflected in an increase of firing of motoneurons. As CBI-2 contains two neuromodulatory peptides, FCAP (feeding circuit-activating peptide) and CP2 (cerebral peptide 2), we hypothesized that repetition priming may involve persistent peptidergic neuromodulation. We find that these peptides produce priming-like effects, i.e., they increase the firing of radula-opening (B48) and radula-closing (B8) motoneurons during motor programs. Proekt et al. (2004, 2007) showed that repetition priming of neuron B8 is implemented by modulatory inputs that B8 receives from the CPG. In contrast, our current findings indicate that priming of B48 may be implemented by a direct peptidergic modulation of its intrinsic characteristics via a pathway that activates cAMP. We suggest that the direct versus indirect, i.e., CPG-dependent, repetition priming may be related to the type of input that individual motoneurons receive from the CPG. We suggest that in motoneurons that are driven by concurrent excitation-inhibition, repetition priming is indirect as it is preferentially implemented via modulation of the output of CPGs. In contrast, in motoneurons that are driven by alternating excitation-inhibition, direct modulation of motoneurons may be preferentially used.
BACE1 is required for the release of beta-amyloid (Abeta) in vivo, and inhibition of BACE1 activity is targeted for reducing Abeta generation in Alzheimer's patients. To further our understanding of the safe use of BACE1 inhibitors in human patients, we aimed to study the physiological functions of BACE1 by characterizing BACE1-null mice. Here, we report the finding of spontaneous behavioral seizures in BACE1-null mice. Electroencephalographic recordings revealed abnormal spike-wave discharges in BACE1-null mice, and kainic acid-induced seizures also occurred more frequently in BACE1-null mice compared with their wild-type littermates. Biochemical and morphological studies showed that axonal and surface levels of Na(v)1.2 were significantly elevated in BACE1-null mice, consistent with the increased fast sodium channel current recorded from BACE1-null hippocampal neurons. Patch-clamp recording also showed altered intrinsic firing properties of isolated BACE1-null hippocampal neurons. Furthermore, population spikes were significantly increased in BACE1-null brain slices, indicating hyperexcitability of BACE1-null neurons. Together, our results suggest that increased sodium channel activity contributes to the epileptic behaviors observed in BACE1-null mice. The knowledge from this study is crucial for the development of BACE1 inhibitors for Alzheimer's therapy and to the applicative study of epilepsy.
Attacks of migraine with aura represent a phenomenon in which abnormal neuronal activity in the cortex produces sensory disturbances (aura) some 20-40 min before the onset of headache. The purpose of this study was to determine whether cortical spreading depression (CSD)--an event believed to underlie visual aura--can give rise to activation of nociceptors that innervate the meninges--an event believed to set off migraine headache. CSD was induced in anesthetized male rats by stimulation of the visual cortex with electrical pulses, pin prick, or KCl; single-unit activity of meningeal nociceptors was monitored in vivo in the rat before and after CSD. Regardless of the method of cortical stimulation, induction of CSD was recorded in 64 trials. In 31 of those trials, CSD induced a twofold increase in meningeal nociceptor firing rate that persisted for 37.0 +/- 4.6 min in trials in which activity returned to baseline, or &gt;68 min in trials in which activity remained heightened at the time recording was interrupted. In two-thirds of the trials, onset of long-lasting neuronal activation began approximately 14 min after the wave of CSD. The findings demonstrates for the first time that induction of CSD by focal stimulation of the rat visual cortex can lead to long-lasting activation of nociceptors that innervate the meninges. We suggest that migraine with aura is initiated by waves of CSD that lead up to delayed activation of the trigeminovascular pathway.
EEG studies from subdural electrodes have demonstrated a face-specific event-related potential (face-N200) recorded from human ventral occipitotemporal cortex. The insensitivity of face-N200 to task manipulations has supported the proposal that face-N200 reflects an initial obligatory response to faces. This result stands in striking contrast to results of neuroimaging studies that have demonstrated strong task sensitivity of the fusiform hemodynamic response evoked by faces, and thus has created a paradox in the face perception literature. We recorded field potentials directly from the cortical surface of 16 patients while they selectively attended to faces or houses. Here we report that face-specific gamma activity recorded at face-N200 sites is strongly modulated by selective attention, while face-N200 is not. Our results reconcile prior electrophysiological and hemodynamic studies of face perception, and suggest that attentional modulation of the face response follows an initial phase that is largely insensitive to attention.
Recent advances in the analysis of neuronal activities suggest that the instantaneous activity patterns can be mostly explained by considering only first-order and pairwise interactions between recorded elements, i.e., action potentials or local field potentials (LFP), and do not require higher-than-pairwise-order interactions. If generally applicable, this pairwise approach greatly simplifies the description of network interactions. However, an important question remains: are the recorded elements the units of interaction that best describe neuronal activity patterns? To explore this, we recorded spontaneous LFP peak activities in cortical organotypic cultures using planar, integrated 60-microelectrode arrays. We compared predictions obtained using a pairwise approach with those using a hierarchical approach that uses two different spatial units for describing the activity interactions: single electrodes and electrode clusters. In this hierarchical model, short-range interactions within each cluster were modeled by pairwise interactions of electrode activities and long-range interactions were modeled by pairwise interactions of cluster activities. Despite the relatively low number of parameters used, the hierarchical model provided a more accurate description of the activity patterns than the pairwise model when applied to ensembles of 10 electrodes. Furthermore, the hierarchical model was successfully applied to a larger-scale data of approximately 60 electrodes. Electrode activities within clusters were highly correlated and spatially contiguous. In contrast, long-range interactions were diffuse, suggesting the presence of higher-than-pairwise-order interactions involved in the LFP peak activities. Thus, the identification of appropriate units of interaction may allow for the successful characterization of neuronal activities in large-scale networks.
There is a need to develop therapies that promote growth or remyelination of mammalian CNS axons. Although the feasibility of pre-clinical treatment strategies should be tested in animal models, in vitro assays are usually faster and less expensive. As a result, in vitro models are ideal for screening large numbers of potential therapeutics prior to use in more complex in vivo systems. In 1953, Sholl introduced a technique that is a reliable and sensitive method for quantifying indices of neurite outgrowth. However, application of the technique is limited because it is labor-intensive. Several methods have been developed to reduce the analysis time for the Sholl technique; but these methods require extensive pre-processing of digital images, they introduce user bias or they have not been compared to manual analysis to ensure accuracy. Here we describe a new, semi-automated Sholl technique for quantifying neuronal and glial process morphology. Using MetaMorph, we developed an unbiased analysis protocol that can be performed approximately 3x faster than manual quantification with a comparable level of accuracy regardless of cell morphology. The laborious image processing typical of most computer-aided analysis is avoided by embedding image correction functions into the automated portion of the analysis. The sensitivity and validity of the technique was confirmed by quantifying neuron growth treated with growth factors or oligodendroglial maturation in the presence or absence of thyroid hormone. Thus, this technique provides a rapid and sensitive method for quantifying changes in cell morphology and screening for treatment effects in multiple cell types in vitro.
FMR1 gene plays an important role in the development of central nervous system. Down-regulation of the FMR1 expression leads to fragile X syndrome. MicroRNAs (miRNAs) can repress gene expression by base pairing with their mRNA targets. By computer programs analysis, five miRNAs: miR-19a, miR-19b, miR-142, miR-302b* and miR-323-3p potentially target to different sites on the FMR1 3' untranslated region (3' UTR), except that miR-19a and miR-19b share the same targeting site. To test whether these miRNAs repress reporter gene expression by interacting with the miRNA targets on the FMR1 3' UTR, we developed two chimeric constructs: one construct expressing a firefly luciferase with the FMR1 3' UTR or its miRNA target mutations and the other construct expressing a pre-miRNA fusing with GFP. Luciferase assay co-transfecting with the two constructs showed that the miRNAs, miR-19b, miR-302b* and miR-323-3p could repress gene expression in HEK-293 cells, suggesting a role of these miRNAs in the regulation of the FMR1 expression. The constructs used in this study can be widely used to identify the miRNA targets in any interested genes, which will greatly promote the current progress in understanding the biological function of miRNAs.

Research has demonstrated that Long-Evans rats (LER) display superior mnemonic function over Wistar rats (WR). These differences are correlated with endogenous and input-dependent properties of the hippocampus. The present work sought to determine if juvenile pretraining might enhance hippocampal structural markers and if this would be associated with spatial processing improvements. Male and female WR and LER were either handled or trained on a water maze task from postnatal day 16 (p16) to p26 (pretraining). All animals were then trained on the task from p40 to p44 followed by immunohistochemical assessment of synaptophysin (to mark presynaptic terminals), MAP-2 (to mark dendrites), and the phosphorylated (activated) form of the extracellular signal-regulated kinase-1 (pERK1) in the hippocampus. From p19 to p20, LER (both male and female) showed a dramatic improvement in locating the hidden platform compared to their WR counterparts. On the first day of training at p40, all pretrained groups showed shorter latencies to locate the platform compared to groups without pretraining. Over the next 4 d, only pretrained male LER showed enhanced memory. Immunohistochemical analysis revealed fewer pERK1-labeled neurons in the CA3 hippocampal region in all pretrained groups and fewer pERK1-labeled neurons in the CA1 region of pretrained male LER. Pretrained male LER also showed more MAP-2 staining in CA1 and dentate gyrus regions. Synaptophysin staining revealed a pattern of axonal redistribution in the CA3 region in the pretrained groups. Results suggest a pattern of structural hippocampal alterations that may help to identify network malleability following pretraining protocols.
The perceptual processing of emotional conflict was studied using electrophysiological techniques to measure event-related potentials (ERPs). The emotional face-word Stroop task in which emotion words are written in prominent red color across a face was use to study emotional conflict. In each trial, the emotion word and facial expression were either congruent or incongruent (in conflict). When subjects were asked to identify the expression of the face during a trial, the incongruent condition evoked a more negative N170 ERP component in posterior lateral sites than in the congruent condition. In contrast, when subjects were asked to identify the word during a trial, the incongruent condition evoked a less negative N170 component than the congruent condition. The present findings extend our understanding of the control processes involved in emotional conflict by demonstrating that differentiation of emotional congruency begins at an early perceptual processing stage.
Norepinephrine (NE) and ATP are co-released by periarterial sympathetic nerves. In mesenteric arteries (MA) from deoxycorticosterone-acetate (DOCA)-salt hypertensive rats, ATP, but not norepinephrine, release is impaired suggesting that their release may be regulated differently. We tested the hypothesis that different calcium channels contribute to ATP and norepinephrine release from sympathetic nerves in vitro in MA from normotensive and DOCA-salt hypertensive rats and that oxidative stress disrupts prejunctional regulation of co-transmission. Excitatory junction potentials (EJPs) were used to measure ATP release. Norepinephrine release was measured amperometrically with carbon-fiber microelectrodes. CdCl2 (30 microM) inhibited norepinephrine release in sham and DOCA-salt arteries by 78% and 85%, respectively. The N-type calcium channel antagonist, omega-conotoxin GVIA (CTX, 0.1 microM) inhibited norepinephrine release by 50% and 67% in normotensive and DOCA-salt arteries, respectively while CTX blocked EJPs. The P/Q-type calcium channel antagonist omega-agatoxin IVA (ATX; 0.03 microM) reduced norepinephrine release in sham but not DOCA-salt arteries and increased EJPs in sham but not DOCA-salt arteries. ATX did not increase EJPs in sham arteries in the presence of the alpha(2)-adrenergic receptor antagonist, yohimbine (1 microM). alpha(2)-Autoreceptor-sensitive EJP facilitation is impaired in DOCA-salt hypertension but this response is restored in DOCA-salt rats treated chronically with the antioxidant, apocynin. Apocynin restored alpha(2)-autoreceptor regulation of norepinephrine release. We conclude that ATP released from periarterial sympathetic nerves is controlled directly by N-type calcium channels. Norepinephrine release is controlled by N and P/Q type calcium channels. Norepinephrine release controlled by P/Q channels acts at alpha(2)-adrenergic receptors to inhibit norepinephrine release suggesting that there may be multiple pools of norepinephrine in periarterial sympathetic nerves. Regulation of norepinephrine release by alpha(2)-autoreceptors and P/Q-type channels is impaired in DOCA-salt hypertension and alpha(2)-autoreceptor function is disrupted by oxidative stress.
Microinjection of opioids into the ventrolateral periaqueductal gray (vlPAG) produces antinociception in part by binding to mu-opioid receptors (MOPrs). Although both high and low efficacy agonists produce antinociception, low efficacy agonists such as morphine produce limited MOPr internalization suggesting that MOPr internalization and signaling leading to antinociception are independent. This hypothesis was tested in awake, behaving rats using DERM-A594, a fluorescently labeled dermorphin analog, and internalization blockers. Microinjection of DERM-A594 into the vlPAG produced both antinociception and internalization of DERM-A594. Administration of the irreversible opioid receptor antagonist beta-chlornaltrexamine (beta-CNA) prior to DERM-A594 microinjection reduced both the antinociceptive effect and the number of DERM-A594 labeled cells demonstrating that both effects are opioid receptor-mediated. Pretreatment with the internalization blockers dynamin dominant-negative inhibitory peptide (dynamin-DN) and concanavalinA (ConA) attenuated both DERM-A594 internalization and antinociception. Microinjection of dynamin-DN and ConA also decreased the antinociceptive potency of the unlabeled opioid agonist dermorphin when microinjected into the vlPAG as demonstrated by rightward shifts in the dose-response curves. In contrast, administration of dynamin-DN had no effect on the antinociceptive effect of microinjecting the GABA(A) receptor antagonist bicuculline into the vlPAG. The finding that dermorphin-induced antinociception is attenuated by blocking receptor internalization indicates that key parts of opioid receptor-mediated signaling depend on internalization.
Adverse prenatal environment, such as intrauterine growth retardation (IUGR), increases the risk for negative neurobehavioral outcomes. IUGR, affecting approximately 10% of all US infants, is a known risk factor for attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD), schizophrenia spectrum disorders and addiction. Mouse dams were fed a protein deficient (8.5% protein) or isocaloric control (18% protein) diet through pregnancy and lactation (a well validated rodent model of IUGR). Dopamine-related gene expression, dopamine content and behavior were examined in adult offspring. IUGR offspring have six to eightfold over-expression of dopamine (DA)-related genes (tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) and dopamine transporter) in brain regions related to reward processing (ventral tegmental area (VTA), nucleus accumbens, prefrontal cortex (PFC)) and homeostatic control (hypothalamus), as well as increased number of TH-ir neurons in the VTA and increased dopamine in the PFC. Cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitor 1C (Cdkn1c) is critical for dopaminergic neuron development. Methylation of the promoter region of Cdkn1c was decreased by half and there was a resultant two to sevenfold increase in Cdkn1c mRNA expression across brain regions. IUGR animals demonstrated alterations in dopamine-dependent behaviors, including altered reward-processing, hyperactivity and exaggerated locomotor response to cocaine. These data describe significant dopamine-related molecular and behavioral abnormalities in a mouse model of IUGR. This animal model, with both face validity (behavior) and construct validity (link to IUGR and dopamine dysfunction) may prove useful in identifying underlying mechanisms linking IUGR and adverse neurobehavioral outcomes such as ADHD.
Social deprivation in early life disrupts emotionality and attentional processes in humans. Rearing rats in isolation reproduces some of these abnormalities, which are attenuated by daily handling. However, the neurochemical mechanisms underlying these responses remain poorly understood. We hypothesized that post-weaning social isolation alters the endocannabinoid system, a neuromodulatory system that controls emotional responding. We characterized behavioral consequences of social isolation and evaluated whether handling would reverse social isolation-induced alterations in behavioral reactivity to context and the endocannabinoid system. At weaning, pups were single or group housed and concomitantly handled or not handled daily until adulthood. Rats were tested in emotionality- and attentional-sensitive behavioral assays (open field, elevated plus maze, startle and prepulse inhibition). Cannabinoid receptor densities and endocannabinoid levels were quantified in a separate group of rats. Social isolation negatively altered behavioral responding. Socially-isolated rats that were handled showed less deficits in the open field, elevated plus maze, and prepulse inhibition tests. Social isolation produced site-specific alterations (supraoptic nucleus, ventrolateral thalamus, rostral striatum) in cannabinoid receptor densities compared to group rearing. Handling altered the endocannabinoid system in neural circuitry controlling emotional expression. Handling altered endocannabinoid content (prefrontal and piriform cortices, nucleus accumbens) and cannabinoid receptor densities (lateral globus pallidus, cingulate and piriform cortices, hippocampus) in a region-specific manner. Some effects of social isolation on the endocannabinoid system were moderated by handling. Isolates were unresponsive to handling-induced increases in cannabinoid receptor densities (caudal striatum, anterior thalamus), but were sensitive to handling-induced changes in endocannabinoid content (piriform, prefrontal cortices), compared to group-reared rats. Our findings suggest alterations in the endocannabinoid system may contribute to the abnormal isolate phenotype. Handling modifies the endocannabinoid system and behavioral reactivity to context, but surmounts only some effects of social isolation. These data implicate a pivotal role for the endocannabinoid system in stress adaptation and emotionality-related disturbances.
Tau, an axonal microtubule-associated protein, becomes hyperphosphorylated in several neurodegenerative diseases including Alzheimer disease (AD). In AD brain, tau is phosphorylated at pathological multiple-site epitopes recognized by the antibodies AT8 (S199/S202/T205), AT100 (T212/S214/T217), AT180 (T231/S235) and PHF-1 (S396/S404) and at individual sites such as S262 and S422. Although it is believed that the hyperphosphorylation of tau occurs in a precise cascade of phosphorylation events, this cascade remains to be demonstrated in mammalian neuronal cells. In the present study, human tau mutants in which disease-related sites associated with either an early (AT8, T231 and S262) or intermediate (T217) stage of tau pathology were mutated in alanine to inhibit their phosphorylation were overexpressed in primary hippocampal neurons to examine their impact on the phosphorylation of other disease-related sites. The mutation in alanine of S262 decreased the phosphorylation of the AT8 and PHF-1 epitopes and that of T217. When the sites included in the AT8 epitope were mutated in alanine, the phosphorylation of T217 and PHF-1 epitope was significantly reduced indicating that the decrease of AT8 phosphorylation was a key event in the impaired phosphorylation of T217 and PHF-1 by the S262 alanine mutant. Most interestingly, the mutation in alanine of T217 had a positive impact on the phosphorylation of the AT8 epitope, indicating the presence of a feedback loop between AT8 and T217 in rat hippocampal neurons. The phosphorylation of the AT180 epitope was increased when S262 and the sites forming the AT8 epitope were mutated in alanine. The mutation of the AT8 epitope also increased the phosphorylation of S422. All together, our data show that the sites forming the AT8 epitope could play a central role in regulating the phosphorylation of tau at disease-associated sites and that priming and feedback events take place to regulate the overall level of tau phosphorylation in rat hippocampal neurons.
One strategy in localizing a sound source in the azimuthal plane is the comparison of arrival times of sound stimuli at the two ears. The processing of interaural time differences (ITDs) in the auditory brainstem was suggested by the Jeffress model in 1948. In chicks, binaural neurons in the nucleus laminaris (NL) receive input from both ipsilateral and contralateral nucleus magnocellularis (NM) neurons, with the axons of the latter acting as delay lines. A given neuron in the NL responds maximally to coinciding input from both NM neurons. To achieve maximum resolution of sound localization in the NL, the conduction velocity along these delay lines must be precisely tuned. Here, we examined the development of this velocity between embryonic days (E)12 and E18. Our optical imaging approach visualizes the contralateral delay lines along almost the complete NL of the chicken embryo. Optical imaging with the voltage-sensitive dye RH 795 showed no significant differences in the velocity between E12 and E15, but a significant increase from E15 to E18, at both 21 degrees C and 35 degrees C. Surprisingly, at 21 degrees C the conduction velocity in the dorso-lateral part of the NL was significantly higher compared to the situation in the ventro-medial part. The observed development in contralateral conduction velocity may be due to a developmental increase in myelination of the NM axons. Indeed, antibody staining against myelin-associated glycoprotein (alpha-MAG) showed no myelination of the NM axon branches within the NL at E12 and E15. On the other hand, a clear alpha-MAG immunoreactivity occurred at E18. Our results therefore describe the developmental physiological properties of the delay line in the chicken embryo.
Glioblastoma multiforme is the most commonly diagnosed malignant primary brain tumour in adults. Invasive behaviour is the pathological hallmark of malignant gliomas; consequently, its inhibition has been suggested as a therapeutic strategy. Tumour cell-derived gelatinases (matrix metalloproteinase-2, matrix metalloproteinase-9) can be considered prime factors in glioma invasiveness: their expression correlates with the progression and the degree of malignancy. Thus, broad spectrum matrix metalloproteinase inhibitors (MMP inhibitors) have been included in clinical trials. In the present study, the invasiveness, viability and progression of the human glioma cell line U87MG were investigated following treatment with N-O-isopropyl sulfonamido-based hydroxamates (compounds 1 and 2) as MMP-2 inhibitors used at nanomolar concentration. A standard broad spectrum MMP-inhibitor belonging to the classical tertiary sulfonamido-based hydroxamates family (CGS_27023A) was used too. The compounds 1 and 2 resulted in potent inhibition of cell invasiveness (P&lt;0.0001) without affecting viability. In some clinical trials, the combined therapy of temozolomide (an alkylating agent used in glioma treatment) plus marimastat (a broad spectrum MMP inhibitor) has provided evidence of the importance of MMPs to tumor progression and invasiveness. On this basis, the effect on U87MG cells of a combined treatment with temozolomide, plus each of the two MMP inhibitors at nanomolar concentration, was investigated. The obtained data demonstrated the inhibition of cell invasiveness and viability after treatment. These results can help in developing clinical combined therapy using MMP inhibitors that, at low doses, increase the anticancer efficacy of chemotherapeutic drugs, probably without causing the side effects typical of broad-spectrum MMP inhibitors.
The purpose of this study was to evaluate whether nicotinic acetylcholine receptors of the dorsal hippocampus and the basolateral amygdala (BLA) can potentiate ethanol response in the conditioned place preference (CPP) paradigm. I.p. administration of different doses of ethanol (0.25-1 g/kg) did not induce CPP. However, the higher dose of the drug (1.5 g/kg i.p.) induced place aversion. Furthermore, microinjection of nicotine (0.5-1 microg/rat) into both CA1 regions (intra-CA1) and the BLA (intra-BLA) did not produce a significant CPP. Interestingly, intra-CA1 or -BLA administration of nicotine plus ethanol (0.5 g/kg) during conditioning phase significantly induced a strong CPP. Microinjection of mecamylamine, the nicotinic acetylcholine receptor antagonist, into the CA1 regions or into the BLA did not alter CPP. However, intra-CA1 or -BLA microinjection of mecamylamine (1-4 microg/rat) reversed the response induced by the microinjection of nicotine (1 microg/rat, intra-CA1 or -BLA) plus ethanol (0.5 g/kg i.p.) in the CPP paradigm. On the other hand, the microinjection of nicotine (0.5-1.5 microg/rat) into the BLA, but not into the CA1 regions before the testing phase potentiated the response of ethanol on the expression of conditioned place preference. Moreover, intra-CA1 administration of nicotine plus ethanol increased the locomotor activity on the test day which was reversed by pretreatment with mecamylamine, while other treatments had no effect on locomotor activity. It can be concluded that the activation of nicotinic acetylcholine receptors of the dorsal hippocampus and the basolateral amygdala can potentiate the ethanol response in the CPP paradigm.
Opioids have been discovered to have Toll-like receptor (TLR) activity, beyond actions at classical opioid receptors. This raises the question whether other pharmacotherapies for pain control may also possess TLR activity, contributing to or opposing their clinical effects. We document that tricyclics can alter TLR4 and TLR2 signaling. In silico simulations revealed that several tricyclics docked to the same binding pocket on the TLR accessory protein, myeloid differentiation protein 2 (MD-2), as do opioids. Eight tricyclics were tested for effects on TLR4 signaling in HEK293 cells over-expressing human TLR4. Six exhibited mild (desipramine), moderate (mianserin, cyclobenzaprine, imiprimine, ketotifen) or strong (amitriptyline) TLR4 inhibition, and no TLR4 activation. In contrast, carbamazepine and oxcarbazepine exhibited mild and strong TLR4 activation, respectively, and no TLR4 inhibition. Amitriptyline but not carbamazepine also significantly inhibited TLR2 signaling in a comparable cell line. Live imaging of TLR4 activation in RAW264.7 cells and TLR4-dependent interleukin-1 release from BV-2 microglia revealed that amitriptyline blocked TLR4 signaling. Lastly, tricyclics with no (carbamazepine), moderate (cyclobenzeprine), and strong (amitriptyline) TLR4 inhibition were tested intrathecally (rats) and amitriptyline tested systemically in wildtype and knockout mice (TLR4 or MyD88). While tricyclics had no effect on basal pain responsivity, they potentiated morphine analgesia in rank-order with their potency as TLR4 inhibitors. This occurred in a TLR4/MyD88-dependent manner as no potentiation of morphine analgesia by amitriptyline occurred in these knockout mice. This suggests that TLR2 and TLR4 inhibition, possibly by interactions with MD2, contributes to effects of tricyclics in vivo. These studies provide converging lines of evidence that several tricyclics or their active metabolites may exert their biological actions, in part, via modulation of TLR4 and TLR2 signaling and suggest that inhibition of TLR4 and TLR2 signaling may potentially contribute to the efficacy of tricyclics in treating chronic pain and enhancing the analgesic efficacy of opioids.
Previous dynamic posturography studies demonstrated clear abnormalities in balance responses in Parkinson's disease (PD) patients compared to controls at the group level, but its clinical value in the diagnostic process and fall risk estimation in individual patients leaves for improvement. Therefore, we investigated whether a new approach, focusing on the balance responses to the very first and fully unpractised trial rather than a pooled mean response to a series of balance perturbations, could further improve the diagnostic utility of dynamic posturography. Following the first trial, subjects were exposed to repeated balance perturbations, which also permitted us to investigate the training responses. Fourteen patients with PD and 18 age-matched controls were enrolled, who received a series of multidirectional postural perturbations, induced by support surface rotations. We measured trunk and upper arm kinematics and electromyographic responses, and evaluated group differences at three levels: the postural response to the very first backward perturbation; pooled first and habituated postural responses; and habituation rates. Analysis of the first trial responses yielded similar results as evaluation of the mean response over trials: forward flexion of the trunk induced by backward perturbations was decreased in patients, accompanied by increased muscle responses present. Moreover, trunk movement and muscle activity were equally present in both groups-suggesting a preserved training response in PD patients. Early masseter activity in both groups might be indicative of a startle-like component to the balance response. In terms of diagnostic utility, focusing on the first trial response or habituation rate is no better than analysis of pooled responses to a series of perturbations. The apparently preserved training response in PD patients suggests that balance reactions in PD can be improved by repeated exposure, and this may have implications for future exercise studies. Early masseter activity warrants further studies to evaluate a potential startle component in the pathophysiology of balance disorders.
Sharp waves (SPWs) are endogenous hippocampal network activity that occurs during certain behaviors and it is thought to be involved in the process of memory consolidation. Frequently, SPWs are generated in bursts or clusters of several consecutive events forming discrete episodes of activity, a hitherto unexplored feature of this prominent hippocampal network activity. In the present study, using rat ventral hippocampal slices, we show that clusters of SPWs consist of two to four consecutive events occurring at a frequency of approximately 10 Hz (range, 7-14 Hz). Similarly to the first (primary) event in a cluster the following (secondary) SPWs correspond to inhibitory postsynaptic potentials in CA1 pyramidal cells. Furthermore, the initiation of secondary SPWs in the 23% of cells coincides with postinhibitory rebound excitation. Antagonists of NMDA receptors reversibly abolish secondary but not primary SPWs suggesting that their generation depend on the activation of NMDA receptors. Furthermore, the generation of clusters of SPWs is very sensitive to moderate pharmacological reduction or enhancement of the GABA (A) receptor-mediated transmission suggesting that precise levels of GABAergic transmission are required for the clustered generation of SPWs. In addition, enhancement of GABA (A) receptor-mediated transmission affects the timing of secondary SPWs initiation. Trains of high-frequency (100 Hz) or theta burst stimulation at the Schaffer collaterals that induce long-term potentiation of the evoked field response enhance the incidence of SPWs' clusters and the amplitude of the primary SPWs. We propose that sequential approximately 10 Hz clustered activation of the local hippocampal circuit occurring under the dynamics of SPWs and depending on NMDA receptors and an accurate level of GABAergic synaptic transmission is an essential pattern of precisely controlled network activity involved in synaptic plasticity processes with potential implications in mnemonic functions.
Electroconvulsive therapy has been commonly applied in the treatment of refractory depression, but its cognitive side effects are noticed and restrict its application. The molecular mechanisms underlying the side effects remain elusive, and there is no efficient prevention. By employing a recognized electroconvulsive shock (ECS) rat model, we found in the present study that ECS induced spatial memory deficits with simultaneous decreases in synaptic proteins of N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor 2A/B (NR2A/B) and postsynaptic density 95 (PSD95), the immediate early gene c-Fos and cAMP response element binding (CREB) proteins, all of which are memory-related proteins. ECS also caused tau hyperphosphorylation at multiple Alzheimer-related phosphorylation sites with activation of glycogen synthase kinase-3beta (GSK-3beta), Akt and phospho-PKR-like endoreticulum (PERK), and inhibition of protein phosphatase-2A (PP)-2A. Intraperitoneal injection of phenylbutyric acid (PBA), an aromatic short chain fatty acid with the functions of molecule chaperon, prevented rats from the ECS-induced memory deficits, alterations of the memory-associated proteins, and tau hyperphosphorylation. Our data suggest that PBA may be potentially used for attenuating the side effects caused by electroconvulsive therapy.
Tonically active neurons (TANs) and phasically active neurons (PANs) are widely believed to be the cholinergic interneurons and GABAergic projection neurons, respectively, in the striatum based on in vivo intracellular recordings coupled with morphological examinations of anesthetized rats, and on histochemical, electrophysiological, and labeling studies of in vitro slice preparations. TANs of alert behaving animals exhibit prolonged pause responses to behaviorally significant events. PANs, on the other hand, are mostly inactive when subjects are quiet and not performing any actions, but exhibit burst discharges in response to external stimuli and/or voluntary actions. Several other types of interneurons have also been identified in the striatum, such as parvalbumin-containing GABAergic interneurons (fast-spiking cells), somatostatin-containing interneurons, and calretinin-containing interneurons. To identify the neurochemical and morphological characteristics of TANs and PANs in a more direct manner, we conducted juxtacellular labeling, combining electrophysiology with immunohistochemistry and morphology in anesthetized rats. All of the juxtacellularly labeled TANs (n=3) among those recorded (n=10) were ChAT-positive and had large cell somata with aspiny dendrites. Thus, although our observations are based on a limited number of neurons, our findings provide the most convincing evidence to date that TANs in the striatum are cholinergic neurons. We also found that the majority of PANs are GABA-immunoreactive (46 of 48 tested) and approximately two-thirds had spiny dendrites (30 of 48 tested), indicating that the majority are medium-sized, spiny, GABAergic projection neurons, consistent with general beliefs. Conversely, the remaining one-third of PANs had aspiny dendrites (n=18), indicating that they were interneurons. Therefore, the present study reveals that TANs are cholinergic neurons and that the majority of PANs are medium-sized, spiny, GABAergic projection neurons, while a smaller number are GABAergic interneurons.
We have previously reported that a mild maternal hyperthyroidism in rats impairs stress coping of adult offspring. To assess anxiogenesis in this rat model of stress over-reactivity, we used two behavioural tests for unconditional and conditional anxious states: elevated plus maze test (EPM) and Vogel conflict test (VCT). In the latter one, arginine vasopressin (AVP) release was enhanced due to osmotic stress. With the EPM test no differences were observed between maternal hyperthyroid rats (MH) and controls. However, with the VCT, the MH showed increased anxiety-like behaviour. This behavioural difference was abolished by diazepam. Plasma AVP concentration curve as a function of water deprivation (WD) time showed a marked increase, reaching its maximal levels within half the time of controls and another significant difference after VCT. A general increase in Fos expression in hypothalamic supraoptic and paraventricular nuclei (PVN) was observed during WD and after VCT. There was also a significant increase of AVP immunoreactivity in anterior hypothalamic area. A large number of Herring bodies were observed in the AVP containing fibres of MH hypothalamic-neurohypophysial system. Numerous reciprocal synaptic connections between AVP and corticotropin releasing factor containing neurons in MH ventromedial PVN were observed by electron microscopy. These results suggest that a mild maternal hyperthyroidism could induce an aberrant organization in offspring's hypothalamic stress related regions which could mediate the enhanced anxiety seen in this animal model.
Prolonged seizures (status epilepticus) can activate apoptosis-associated signaling pathways. The extent to which such pathways contribute to cell death might depend on the insult intensity, whereby the programmed or apoptotic cell death component is reduced when seizures are more severe or protracted. We recently showed that mice lacking the pro-apoptotic Bcl-2 homology domain 3-only protein Puma (Bbc3) were potently protected against damage caused by status epilepticus. In the present study we examined whether Puma deficiency was protective when the seizure episode was more severe. Intra-amygdala microinjection of 1 microg kainic acid (KA) into C57BL/6 mice triggered status epilepticus that lasted about twice as long as with 0.3 microg KA prior to lorazepam termination. Hippocampal damage was also significantly greater in the higher-dose group. Over 80% of degenerating neurons after seizures were positive for DNA fragmentation assessed by terminal deoxynucleotidyl dUTP nick end labeling (TUNEL). Microscopic analysis of neuronal nuclear morphology in TUNEL-positive cells revealed the proportion displaying large rounded clumps of condensed chromatin was approximately 50% lower in the high-dose versus low-dose KA group. Nevertheless, compared to heterozygous and wild-type mice subject to status epilepticus by high-dose KA, neuronal death was reduced by approximately 50% in the hippocampus of Puma-deficient mice. These data suggest aspects of the apoptotic component of seizure-induced neuronal death are insult duration- or severity-dependent. Moreover, they provide further genetic evidence that seizure-induced neuronal death is preventable by targeting so-called apoptosis-associated signaling pathways and Puma loss likely disrupts caspase-independent or non-apoptotic seizure-induced neuronal death.
While excitotoxicity is a major contributor to the pathophysiology of acute spinal injury, its time course and the extent of cell damage in relation to locomotor network activity remain unclear. We used two in vitro models, that is, the rat isolated spinal cord and spinal organotypic cultures, to explore the basic characteristics of excitotoxicity caused by transient application of the glutamate analogue kainate followed by washout and analysis 24 h later. Electrophysiological records showed that fictive locomotion was slowed down by 10 microM kainate (with no histological loss) and fully abolished by 50 microM, while disinhibited bursting with unchanged periodicity persisted. Kainate concentrations (&gt; or =50 microM) larger than those necessary to irreversible suppress fictive locomotion could still elicit dose-dependent motoneuron pool depolarization, and dose-dependent neuronal loss in the grey matter, especially evident in central and dorsal areas. Motoneuron numbers were largely decreased. A similar regional pattern was detected in organotypic slices, as extensive cell loss was dose related and affected motoneurons and premotoneurons: the number of dead neurons (already apparent 1 h after kainate) grew faster with the higher kainate concentration. The histological damage was accompanied by decreased MTT formazan production commensurate with the number of surviving cells. Our data suggest locomotor network function was very sensitive to excitotoxicity, even without observing extensive cell death. Excitotoxicity developed gradually leaving a time window in which neuroprotection might be attempted to preserve circuits still capable of expressing basic rhythmogenesis and reconfigure their function in terms of locomotor output.
Dopamine (DA) deafferentation of the dorsolateral striatum has been shown to prevent habit development, leaving instrumental behavior under action-outcome control that is persistently sensitive to modification of the motivational value of the reward. The present experiment further explored the basis of this dysfunction by examining the ability of intrastriatal DA agonist injections (D1 SKF 38393 or D2/D3 Quinpirole) during overtraining of a signaled instrumental task to restore habit formation in rats subjected to bilateral 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA) lesions of the nigrostriatal dopaminergic pathway. Overtraining was followed by a test of goal sensitivity by satiety-specific devaluation of the reward. The results confirmed the impaired shift in performance from action to habit in control lesioned rats. However, lesioned rats repeatedly injected with quinpirole D2/D3 agonist showed an increase in non-rewarded instrumental responses (intertrials periods) during overtraining, suggesting the development of perseverative behavior. Following the procedure of devaluation, quinpirole D2/D3 agonist treatment, and to a lesser extent SKF 38393 D1 agonist, caused the persistence of sensitivity to reward devaluation, indicating clear goal-directed behavior despite extended training. This absence of restoration of habit formation by DA agonist treatment is discussed in the light of DA agonist effects in Parkinson patients.
The concept of cortical-subcortical loops emphasizes the importance of the basal ganglia for motor, psychomotor, and emotional cortical functions. These loops are bidirectionally controlled by the midbrain dopaminergic system, predominantly but not exclusively at the level of the striatum including the accumbens nucleus. Successful behaviors increase the activities of the mesostriatal (arising in the complex part of the substantia nigra) and mesolimbic (arising in the ventral tegmental area, VTA) neurons, thereby reinforcing the corresponding actions. In contrast, unsuccessful behaviors result in an increased activation of the lateral habenular complex (LHb), thereby decreasing the activities of mesolimbic neurons. Correspondingly, electrical stimulation of the LHb effectively blocks neuronal activity in the VTA. Whether this block is due to an inhibitory projection from the LHb to the VTA, or whether axons from excitatory LHb neurons target inhibitory neurons within the VTA, is presently not known. Here we show, using in situ hybridization and immunocytochemical double labeling at the light and electron microscopic level, that GABAergic neurons are scarce in the LHb and that glutamatergic axons from the LHb mostly target GABAergic neurons in the VTA and the mesopontine rostromedial tegmental nucleus (RMTg), also known as tail of the VTA (tVTA). These data explain the inhibitory effect of LHb activation on the VTA. In addition, however, a small number of LHb terminals in the VTA actually contacts dopaminergic neurons. The biological importance of these terminals requires further investigation.
Presence of the apolipoprotein E (APOE) epsilon4 allele is linked to an increased risk to develop Alzheimer's dementia (AD). However, there are controversial data concerning the impact of the APOE genotype on cognitive functioning and brain activity in healthy subjects. We used event-related functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) to investigate the effects of APOE genotype on spatial contextual memory encoding and retrieval success in healthy older adults. Eighteen subjects (eight APOE4 heterozygotes (epsilon4+) and 10 non-carriers (epsilon4-), mean age 60.0+/-5.0 years) were included in the present analysis. Behaviorally, epsilon4+ subjects performed significantly worse than epsilon4- subjects in item memory and spatial context retrieval. fMRI data revealed that epsilon4+ subjects, compared to epsilon4-subjects, predominantly showed an increase of neural activity specific to encoding of items and their spatial context in prefrontal, temporal and parietal regions. In contrast, epsilon4+ subjects showed activity decreases in the right amygdala during successful item recognition and in the prefrontal cortex bilaterally during spatial context retrieval when compared to epsilon4- subjects. While the activity increases during encoding may reflect compensatory activity in the attempt to maintain normal performance, the decreases during retrieval indicate incipient neural decline in epsilon4+ subjects. These data highlight that preclinical ApoE-related changes in neural activity are not unidirectional but dissociate depending on the memory phase, i.e., encoding or retrieval.
We have shown previously that mats made from the glycoprotein fibronectin are permissive for axonal growth when implanted into the injured spinal cord. Recent evidence has indicated that fibronectin and its peptides also have neuroprotective effects in the CNS. We have therefore examined the neuroprotective effects of fibronectin applied to a spinal cord injury site. Adult rats with fibronectin mats implanted into a spinal cord lesion cavity had decreased apoptosis in the intact adjoining spinal cord tissue at 1 and 3 days post-injury compared to rats that had gelfoam implanted into the lesion cavity. Rats with fibronectin mat implants also showed enhanced hindlimb locomotor performance for the first 3 weeks post-surgery compared to control animals. To further examine the neuroprotective potential of fibronectin following spinal cord injury, we examined the effects of placing fibronectin mats over the site of a spinal cord hemisection or of delivering a solution derived from a dissolved fibronectin mat. The effects of these treatments were compared with control animals and animals that were treated with a fibronectin peptide (PRARIY) that has been shown to decrease secondary damage in a rodent model of cerebral ischemia. Results showed that both types of fibronectin mat treatment resulted in decreased lesion size, apoptosis, and axonal damage within the first week post-injury compared to control animals and were comparable in their neuroprotective efficacy to treatment with the fibronectin peptide. The results of the current study indicate that fibronectin based biomaterials have neuroprotective effects following spinal cord injury, in addition to their previously reported ability to promote axonal regeneration.
In the present study, both potentiation and depression of the synaptic response were induced in hippocampal CA1 neurons by systematically varying the frequency of low frequency afferent stimulation (LFS) between 0.5 and 25 Hz and the pulse number between 40 and 1000. The input-response relationship for CA1 synapses showed that LFS at a higher frequency or with a smaller pulse number increased the magnitude of potentiation of the synaptic response by increasing the contribution of N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors (NMDARs) and metabotropic glutamate receptors (mGluRs) to induction of potentiation. One possible mechanism for this bidirectional plasticity was that specific patterns of LFS differentially activate a uniform receptor population in producing depression or potentiation of synaptic responses. However, a pharmacological study indicated that, despite their opposite effects, both the synaptic depression induced by LFS at 1 Hz and the synaptic potentiation induced by LFS at 10 Hz were triggered by co-activation of NMDARs and mGluRs at CA1 synapses. We suggest that activation of protein kinase C or inositol-1,4,5-trisphosphate receptors, both coupled to group 1 mGluRs, is involved in the bidirectional synaptic plasticity induced in hippocampal CA1 neurons by 1-10 Hz LFS.
Early in development spontaneous activity modulates survival and connectivity of neurons and thus plays a crucial role in the formation of neural networks. The emergence of synchronous activity in cultured neocortical networks initially is driven by large GABAergic interneurons. Here we studied the impact of thyroid hormone on early network development and especially on the development of large GABAergic neurons. Triiodothyronine enhances the frequency of early spontaneous synchronous network activity and an overall increase in network connectivity is indicated by the increased density of glutamatergic and GABAergic synapses. The hormone-induced increase of activity parallels cell type-specific changes in neuronal soma size and cell density, with strong effects on somatic and axonal growth of large GABAergic interneurons. Interestingly, large GABAergic neuron growth is both activity- and hormone-regulated. Blocking neuronal activity by tetrodotoxin or the glutamate receptor blockers D-2-amino-5-phosphonopentanoic acid and 6-cyano-7-nitroquinoxaline-2,3-dione disodium reveals a direct contribution of triiodothyronine to somatic growth, which also precedes the formation of synchronous network activity. The hormone-mediated effects on spontaneous activity and on large GABAergic neurons growth can be blocked by the nuclear thyroid hormone receptors antagonist 1-850. Thus, our data suggest that triiodothyronine actions result in functional maturation of early cortical networks and cell type-specific structural alterations. The increase in spontaneous activity might initially follow the growth of the large GABAergic neurons, which show an exquisite sensitivity to the presence of thyroid hormones. For the most part, however, the hormone-mediated growth of the GABAergic neurons relies strongly on the maturation of glutamatergic synaptic activity.
Sensorimotor gating, as measured by prepulse inhibition (PPI) of startle, is deficient in human beings with schizophrenia and is greatly reduced in rats after bilateral infusion of N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) into the ventral hippocampus (VH). The disruption of PPI by bilateral VH NMDA infusion is blocked by bilateral medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC) lesions, but not by bilateral lesions of the fornix, which is the principal output pathway of the hippocampal formation of the VH. Tract-tracing studies have shown the presence of additional nonfornical pathways by which the VH and neighboring structures of the amygdala may reach forebrain regions that regulate PPI, including the mPFC. To determine whether these nonfornical pathways might mediate forebrain activation after VH NMDA infusion, we examined the effects of bilateral VH NMDA infusion on c-Fos protein expression in the mPFC and nucleus accumbens (NAC) after sham vs. bilateral fornix lesions. Significant increases of c-Fos expression were observed in both the mPFC and NAC after bilateral VH NMDA infusions. Fornix lesions blocked enhanced c-Fos expression in the NAC but not the mPFC after VH NMDA infusion. The results suggest that an intact fornix may be necessary for VH activation of the NAC, but that the VH uses additional nonfornical projections to activate PPI-regulatory circuits within the mPFC.
The delta opioid receptor (DOR) agonist [D-Ala2, D-Leu5] enkephalin (DADLE) has been implicated as a novel neuroprotective agent in the CNS. The current study was designed to evaluate the effects of intracerebroventricular (ICV) application of DADLE on neurological outcomes following asphyxial cardiac arrest (CA) in rats. Male Sprague-Dawley rats were randomly assigned to four groups: Sham group, CA group, DADLE group (DADLE+CA), and Naltrindole group (Naltrindole and DADLE+CA). All drugs were administered into the left cerebroventricle 30 min before CA. CA was induced by 8-min asphyxiation and the animals were resuscitated with a standardized method. DOR protein expression in the hippocampus was significantly increased in the CA group at 1 h after restoration of spontaneous circulation (ROSC) compared with the Sham group. As time progressed, expression of DOR proteins decreased gradually in the CA group. Treatment with DADLE alone or co-administration with Naltrindole reversed the down-regulation of DOR proteins in the hippocampus induced by CA at 24 h after ROSC. Compared with the CA group, the DADLE group had persistently better neurological functional recovery, as assessed by neurological deficit score (NDS) and Morris water maze trials. The number of surviving hippocampal CA1 neurons in the DADLE group was significantly higher than those in the CA group. However, administration of Naltrindole abolished most of the neuroprotective effects of DADLE. We conclude that ICV administration of DADLE 30 min before asphyxial CA has significant protective effects in attenuating hippocampal CA1 neuronal damage and neurological impairments, and that DADLE executes its effects mainly through DOR.
Methamphetamine (METH) is an addictive psychostimulant whose societal impact is on the rise. Emerging evidence suggests that psychostimulants alter synaptic plasticity in the brain--which may partly account for their adverse effects. While it is known that METH increases the extracellular concentration of monoamines dopamine, serotonin, and norepinephrine, it is not clear how METH alters glutamatergic transmission. Within this context, the aim of the present study was to investigate the effects of acute and systemic METH on basal synaptic transmission and long-term potentiation (LTP; an activity-induced increase in synaptic efficacy) in CA1 sub-field in the hippocampus. Both the acute ex vivo application of METH to hippocampal slices and systemic administration of METH decreased LTP. Interestingly, the acute ex vivo application of METH at a concentration of 30 or 60 microM increased baseline synaptic transmission as well as decreased LTP. Pretreatment with eticlopride (D2-like receptor antagonist) did not alter the effects of METH on synaptic transmission or LTP. In contrast, pretreatment with D1/D5 dopamine receptor antagonist SCH23390 or 5-HT1A receptor antagonist NAN-190 abrogated the effect of METH on synaptic transmission. Furthermore, METH did not increase baseline synaptic transmission in D1 dopamine receptor haploinsufficient mice. Our findings suggest that METH affects excitatory synaptic transmission via activation of dopamine and serotonin receptor systems in the hippocampus. This modulation may contribute to synaptic maladaption induced by METH addiction and/or METH-mediated cognitive dysfunction.
Chronic exposure to stress is known to affect learning and memory in adults through the release of glucocorticoid hormones by the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis. In adults, glucocorticoids alter synaptic structure and function in brain regions that express high levels of glucocorticoid receptors and that mediate goal-directed behaviour and learning and memory. In contrast to relatively transient effects of stress on cognitive function in adulthood, exposure to high levels of glucocorticoids in early life can produce enduring changes through substantial remodeling of the developing nervous system. Adolescence is another time of significant brain development and maturation of the HPA axis, thereby providing another opportunity for glucocorticoids to exert programming effects on neurocircuitry involved in learning and memory. These topics are reviewed, as is the emerging research evidence in rodent models highlighting that adolescence may be a period of increased vulnerability compared to adulthood in which exposure to high levels of glucocorticoids results in enduring changes in adult cognitive function.
Recent theories of panic disorder propose an extensive involvement of limbic system structures, such as the hippocampus, in the pathophysiology of this condition. Despite this, no prior study has examined exclusively the hippocampal neurochemistry in this disorder. The current study used proton magnetic resonance spectroscopy imaging ((1)H-MRSI) to examine possible abnormalities in the hippocampus in panic disorder patients. Participants comprised 25 panic patients and 18 psychiatrically healthy controls. N-acetylaspartate (NAA, a putative marker of neuronal viability) and choline (Cho, involved in the synthesis and degradation of cell membranes) levels were quantified relative to creatine (Cr, which is thought to be relatively stable among individuals and in different metabolic condition) in both right and left hippocampi. Compared with controls, panic patients demonstrated significantly lower NAA/Cr in the left hippocampus. No other difference was detected. This result is consistent with previous neuroimaging findings of hippocampal alterations in panic and provides the first neurochemical evidence suggestive of involvement of this structure in the disorder. Moreover, lower left hippocampal NAA/Cr in panic disorder may possibly reflect neuronal loss and/or neuronal metabolic dysfunction, and could be related to a deficit in evaluating ambiguous cues.
The regional distribution, laterality, and reliability of volumetric pulsed continuous arterial spin labeling (PCASL) measurements of cerebral blood flow (CBF) in cortical, subcortical, and cerebellar regions were determined in 10 normal volunteers studied on two occasions separated by 3 to 7 days. Regional CBF, normalized for global perfusion, was highly reliable when measured on separate days. Several regions showed significant lateral asymmetry; notably, in frontal regions CBF was greater in the right than left hemisphere, whereas left was greater than right in posterior regions. There was considerable regional variability across the brain, whereby the posterior cingulate and central and posterior precuneus cortices had the highest perfusion and the globus pallidus the lowest gray matter perfusion. The latter may be due to iron-induced T1 shortening affecting labeled spins and computed CBF signal. High CBF in the posterior cingulate and posterior and central precuneus cortices in this task-free acquisition suggests high activity in these principal nodes of the &quot;default mode network.&quot;
The association between the catechol-O-methyltransferase Val158Met polymorphism and panic disorder was studied in a Swedish sample of 211 patients and 452 controls. We found a significant excess of the Val allele in both male and female patients, the latter but not the former finding being in line with previous studies.
The link between disruptions in emotional/motivational systems and chronic functional impairments in individuals with schizophrenia has been well substantiated. However, attempts to delineate the exact nature of these disruptions have been complicated by the reality that schizophrenia is a markedly heterogeneous disorder. In this article, we integrate findings from schizophrenia, neuroscience, and basic psychology literatures to advance the hypothesis that emotional deficits occur via two separate, mutually exclusive pathways: &quot;ambivalence&quot; - characterized by intact hedonic and abnormally co-activated negative emotion systems, and &quot;apathy&quot; - characterized by anhedonia and relatively sparse negative emotion. Further examination of how negative affect manifests differently across patients will be an important focus of future research, particularly given that the &quot;downstream&quot; social and occupational consequences of these abnormalities may appear similar but reflect dramatically divergent etiologies.
Associations between suicide, violent behaviour and both hypocholesterolaemia and low 5-hydroxyindolacetic acid (5-HIAA) in the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) have been suggested. The relationships between lipids, the serotonergic system, suicidal and aggressive behaviors are complex. We explored relationships between serum cholesterol, CSF 5-HIAA, the planning subscale of suicide intent and violence of attempted suicide method in 13 medication-free male suicide attempters and eight healthy volunteers. Serum high-density lipoprotein cholesterol (HDL-C) levels were significantly lower in suicide attempters than in controls. HDL-C showed a significant positive correlation with the planning subscale of suicide intent in non-violent suicide attempters. A positive association was observed between CSF 5-HIAA and serum cholesterol in suicides. The role of cholesterol may be different in planned non-violent suicide attempts compared with violent suicide attempts.
The current study aimed to extend the clinical utility of the Social Cognition and Interaction Training (SCIT) to individuals with schizotypal personality features. It provided preliminary findings on the suitability and efficacy of the SCIT for these individuals in mainland China.
We tested the hypothesis that, after bed rest, maximal oxygen consumption ( VOmax ) decreases more upright than supine, because of adequate cardiovascular response supine, but not upright. On 9 subjects, we determined VOmax and maximal cardiac output (Q ) upright and supine, before and after (reambulation day upright, the following day supine) 35-day bed rest, by classical steady state protocol. Oxygen consumption, heart rate (f(H)) and stroke volume (Q(st)) were measured by a metabolic cart, electrocardiography and Modelflow from pulse pressure profiles, respectively. We computed Q as f(H) times Q(st), and systemic oxygen flow ( QaO) as Q. times arterial oxygen concentration, obtained after haemoglobin and arterial oxygen saturation measurements. Before bed rest, all parameters at maximal exercise were similar upright and supine. After bed rest, VOmax was lower (p&lt;0.05) than before, both upright (-38.6%) and supine (-17.0%), being 30.8% higher supine than upright. Maximal Q(st) decreased upright (-44.3%), but not supine (+3.7%), being 98.9% higher supine than upright. Maximal Q decreased upright (-45.1%), but not supine (+9.0%), being higher supine than upright (+98.4%). Maximal QaO decreased upright (-37.8%), but not supine (+14.8%), being higher (+74.8%) upright than supine. After bed rest, the cardiovascular response (i) did not affect VOmax supine, (ii) partially explained the VOmax decrease upright, and (iii) caused the VOmax differences between postures. We speculate that impaired peripheral oxygen transfer and/or utilisation may explain the VOmax decrease supine and the fraction of VOmax decrease upright unexplained by cardiovascular responses.
Primary headaches, whose aetiologies cannot be identified by current diagnostic methods, represent the most frequent headaches and must be distinguished from secondary or symptomatic headaches, e.g. related to traumatic, vascular, inflammatory or neoplastic processes. Only an appropriate treatment will meet the expectations of patients, for who even a mild headache may generate important fears and handicaps. Medical history and physical examination form the basis for targeting the right diagnosis before any biological or radiological testing. The article presents guidelines implemented at the Geneva University Hospitals by the Pain Network of the institution. Therapeutic modalities and recommendations concerning the need for specialized assessments are presented to provide a framework in both emergency situation and long-term care.
Troublesome involuntary movements in the absence of dopaminergic medication, so-called off-medication dyskinesias, are a serious adverse effect of fetal neural grafts that hinders the development of cell-based therapies for Parkinson's disease. The mechanisms underlying these dyskinesias are not well understood, and it is not known whether they are the same as in the dyskinesias induced by l-dopa treatment. Using in vivo brain imaging, we show excessive serotonergic innervation in the grafted striatum of two patients with Parkinson's disease, who had exhibited major motor recovery after transplantation with dopamine-rich fetal mesencephalic tissue but had later developed off-medication dyskinesias. The dyskinesias were markedly attenuated by systemic administration of a serotonin [5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT)] receptor (5-HT(1A)) agonist, which dampens transmitter release from serotonergic neurons, indicating that the dyskinesias were caused by the serotonergic hyperinnervation. Our observations suggest strategies for avoiding and treating graft-induced dyskinesias that result from cell therapies for Parkinson's disease with fetal tissue or stem cells.
Pantothenate kinase-associated neurodegeneration (PKAN) is a familial or sporadic disease characterized by extrapyramidal and corticospinal signs with dementia. Patients show iron accumulation in the basal ganglia, with neuronal loss and gliosis. A mutation of pantothenate kinase (PANK2) gene localized on chromosome 20p13 has been described in familiar forms, as well as in sporadic patients. We sought to assess sleep characteristics, including muscle activity during REM sleep, in three patients with PANK2 gene mutation-confirmed diagnosis of PKAN. Sleep architecture was altered in all patients with reduced total time of sleep in two and lack of SWS in one. No significant apnea/hypopnea were detected, and mild PLMS were observed in one patient (PLMS index:10.7/h). In contrast with other neurodegenerative diseases, no REM sleep abnormalities, especially REM sleep behavior disorder, were observed in PKAN patients, and percentage of both REM sleep atonia and phasic EMG activity were within normal ranges. Sleep studies may phenotypically differentiate PKAN from other neurodegenerative disorders.

Knowing the body's location in external space is a fundamental perceptual task. Perceiving the location of body parts through proprioception requires that information about the angles of each joint (i.e., body posture) be combined with information about the size and shape of the body segments between joints. Although information about body posture is specified by on-line afferent signals, no sensory signals are directly informative about body size and shape. Thus, human position sense must refer to a stored body model of the body's metric properties, such as body part size and shape. The need for such a model has long been recognized; however, the properties of this model have never been systematically investigated. We developed a technique to isolate and measure this body model. Participants judged the location in external space of 10 landmarks on the hand. By analyzing the internal configuration of the locations of these points, we produced implicit maps of the mental representation of hand size and shape. We show that this part of the body model is massively distorted, in a reliable and characteristic fashion, featuring shortened fingers and broadened hands. Intriguingly, these distortions appear to retain several characteristics of primary somatosensory representations, such as the Penfield homunculus.
Neuroimaging studies of cognitive control have identified two distinct networks with dissociable resting state connectivity patterns. This study, in patients with heterogeneous damage to these networks, demonstrates network independence through a double dissociation of lesion location on two different measures of network integrity: functional correlations among network nodes and within-node graph theory network properties. The degree of network damage correlates with a decrease in functional connectivity within that network while sparing the nonlesioned network. Graph theory properties of intact nodes within the damaged network show evidence of dysfunction compared with the undamaged network. The effect of anatomical damage thus extends beyond the lesioned area, but remains within the bounds of the existing network connections. Together this evidence suggests that networks defined by their role in cognitive control processes exhibit independence in resting data.
Recent advances in optogenetic techniques have generated new tools for controlling neuronal activity, with a wide range of neuroscience applications. The most commonly used approach has been the optical activation of the light-gated ion channel channelrhodopsin-2 (ChR2). However, targeted single-cell-level optogenetic activation with temporal precessions comparable to the spike timing remained challenging. Here we report fast (&lt; or = 1 ms), selective, and targeted control of neuronal activity with single-cell resolution in hippocampal slices. Using temporally focused laser pulses (TEFO) for which the axial beam profile can be controlled independently of its lateral distribution, large numbers of channels on individual neurons can be excited simultaneously, leading to strong (up to 15 mV) and fast (&lt; or = 1 ms) depolarizations. Furthermore, we demonstrated selective activation of cellular compartments, such as dendrites and large presynaptic terminals, at depths up to 150 microm. The demonstrated spatiotemporal resolution and the selectivity provided by TEFO allow manipulation of neuronal activity, with a large number of applications in studies of neuronal microcircuit function in vitro and in vivo.
During exocytosis, chemical transmitters stored in secretory vesicles can be released upon fusion of these intracellular organelles to the plasma membrane. In this process, SNARE proteins that form a ternary core complex play a central role. This complex could provide the means for generation/storage of energy necessary for driving the fusion of vesicular and plasma membranes. Recently, the amount of energy for (dis)assembly of the ternary complex has been measured using various experimental approaches, including atomic force microscopy, the surface force apparatus, and isothermal titration calorimetry. The obtained measurements are in good agreement with the calculated energy required for membrane fusion achieved by theoretical modeling approaches. Whether the energy expenditure to form the ternary SNARE complex can be utilized towards membrane fusion and/or docking/tethering of vesicles to the plasma membrane still remains one of the key contemporary issues in biophysics and neuroscience.
Dietary ratios of omega-3 (n-3) to omega-6 (n-6) polyunsaturated fatty acids (PUFAs) have been implicated in controlling markers of the metabolic syndrome, including insulin sensitivity, inflammation, lipid profiles and adiposity. However, the role of dietary PUFAs in regulating energy systems in healthy relative to metabolic diseased backgrounds has not been systematically addressed. We used dietary manipulation of n-3 to n-6 PUFA ratios in an animal model of metabolic syndrome and a related healthy line to assay feeding behavior and endocrine markers of feeding drive and energy regulation. Two related lines of rodents with a healthy and a metabolic syndrome phenotype were fed one of two isocaloric diets, comprised of either a 1:1 or a 1:30 n-3 to n-6 ratio, for 30 days. Food intake and weight gain were monitored; and leptin, ghrelin, adiponectin and a suite of hypothalamic neuropeptides involved in energy regulation were assayed following the dietary manipulation period. There was no difference in caloric intake or weight gain between diet groups, however there was a significant interaction between diet and phenotypic line on central and peripheral markers of energy homeostasis. Thus serum levels of leptin, acylated-ghrelin and adiponectin, and mRNA levels of the anorexigenic hypothalamic neuropeptide, cocaine-amphetamine related transcript (CART), showed differential, dietary responses with HCR rats showing an increase in anorexigenic signals in response to unbalanced n-3:6 ratios, while LCR did not. These data are the first to demonstrate that a rodent line with a metabolic syndrome-like phenotype responds differentially to dietary manipulation of n-3 and n-6 fatty acids relative to a related healthy line with regard to endocrine markers of energy homeostasis. The dietary n-3:n-6 ratios used in this experiment represent extreme points of natural human diets, however the data suggest that optimal recommendations regarding omega-3 and omega-6 intake may have differing effects in healthy subjects relative to metabolic syndrome patients. Further research is necessary to establish these responses in human populations.
In Alzheimer's disease (AD), pathological processes start in the brain long before clinical dementia. Biomarkers reflecting brain alterations may therefore indicate disease at an early stage, enabling early diagnosis. This raises several ethical questions and the potential benefits of early diagnosis must be weighted against possible disadvantages. Currently, there are few strong arguments favouring early diagnosis, due to the lack of disease modifying therapy. Also, available diagnostic methods risk erroneous classifications, with potentially grave consequences. However, a possible benefit of early diagnosis even without disease modifying therapy is that it may enable early decision making when patients still have full decision competence, avoiding problems of hypothetical consents. It may also help identifying patients with cognitive dysfunction secondary to other diseases that may be responsive to treatment already today.
Induction of the rare readthrough variant of acetylcholinesterase (AChE-R) by an acetylcholinesterase (AChE) inhibitor or by stress was tested in four mouse strains that differ in their behavioural profiles on tests of anxiety and depression. BALB/C, C57Bl/6, C3H/He and CD-1 mouse strains were tested in the elevated plus maze in two sessions, separated by 48h. All strains, except CD-1, showed the expected reduction in open arm exploration on the second session. BALB/C and C3H mice spent a greater proportion of the time in the open arms on the first exposure, but spent more time immobile in the maze compared to the CD1 and C57 strains. Immobility was attenuated upon the second exposure in all strains, except the BALB/C mice. Real-time PCR was used to investigate regional and strain differences in induction of AChE-R mRNA following four daily injections of diisopropylfluorophosphate (DFP) (.1mg/kg). AChE-R induction was found in the frontal cortex, but not in amygdala, hippocampus or striatum of CD-1 mice. Nor was there AChE-R induction in the brains of the inbred strains. Four daily sessions of swim stress were used to investigate stress-induced induction of AChE-R. BALB/C mice showed significantly more immobility in the forced swim test (FST) compared to the other strains. FST did not induce AChE-R mRNA in any brain region tested; however, AChE-R mRNA expression in the frontal cortex was negatively correlated with immobility in the FST.
At present, eszopiclone and zolpidem are the most commonly prescribed drugs for treating insomnia. Despite the established relationship between sleep disturbance and anxiety, it remains unknown whether targeted treatment for insomnia may affect acute anxiety. Therefore, the objective of this study was to examine the effects of three different doses (1, 3, and 10mg/kg) of eszopiclone and zolpidem on the states of sleep and wakefulness, levels of anxiety-like behavior, and long-term contextual memory in footshock-induced anxious rats. The results of this study demonstrated that the administration of eszopiclone and zolpidem both were equally effective in attenuating footshock stressor-induced suppression of slow-wave sleep (SWS). The administration of eszopiclone at 1mg/kg or zolpidem at 1 and 3mg/kg doses showed a tendency for attenuating stressor-induced suppression of REM sleep. However, the REM sleep attenuating effects of these drugs disappeared when they were administered at higher doses. The administration of eszopiclone at 3 and 10mg/kg doses and zolpidem at all three doses reduced the power of electroencephalographic theta band frequencies during wakefulness. In addition, the administration of eszopiclone at 1 and 3mg/kg doses suppressed stressor-induced anxiety-like behavior. The administration of zolpidem at 1, 3, or 10mg/kg doses was not effective in attenuating stressor-induced anxiety-like behavior. Contextual memory after administration of eszopiclone at 1mg/kg dose had no effects, but was reduced significantly with increased dosage. Contextual memory after administration of zolpidem, at all three doses, was severely disrupted. The results of this study suggest that eszopiclone at a low dose could be used effectively to control anxiety and anxiety-induced insomnia.
Impairments in reversal learning have been attributed to orbitofrontal cortex (OFC) dysfunction in many species. However, the role of subcortical areas interconnected with the OFC such as the striatum remains poorly understood. This study directly evaluated the contribution of core and shell sub-regions of the nucleus accumbens (NAc), dorsomedial (DMS) and dorsolateral (DLS) striatum to reversal learning of an instrumental two-lever spatial discrimination task in rats. Selective NAc core, DMS and DLS lesions were achieved with microinjections of quinolinic acid and NAc shell lesions with ibotenic acid. Damage to NAc core or shell did not affect retention of a previously acquired instrumental spatial discrimination. In contrast, DLS and DMS lesions produced changes in aspects of discrimination performance such as the latency to collect earned food pellets. Neither NAc core or shell lesions nor DLS lesions affected the main indices of reversal performance. Conversely, DMS lesion rats showed a significant impairment in reversal learning. DMS damage increased the number of errors to reach criteria that were perseverative in nature. The deficit in reversal learning in DMS lesion rats was not associated with an impairment to extinguish instrumental responding. There were no effects on spontaneous locomotor activity. Our data are in agreement with recent work showing that lesions of the medial striatum in marmoset monkeys produce perseverative impairments during a serial visual discrimination reversal task and support the hypothesis that dorsomedial striatal dysfunction contributes to pathological perseveration, which is a common feature of many psychiatric disorders.
Stress can induce preferential engagement of habit learning mediated by the basal ganglia, relative to learning that involves complex spatial associations contributed by the hippocampal formation. We explored in mice the influence that chronic episodes of social stress exert on the selection of cognitive/spatial vs. habit-based learning strategies. Male mice were exposed to repeated episodes of social confrontation and were categorized as dominant, subordinate or undetermined according to quantitative ethologically relevant parameters of aggression. Mice were then trained in a conditional discrimination task in the T-maze in the presence of allocentric cues until five correct choices were made. The T-maze was then turned 180 degrees and mice were categorized as &quot;cue-learners&quot; or &quot;place-learners&quot; on the basis of their first response in the probe test. Mice showed a graded preference for place vs. cue learning strategies depending on their social categorization (control&gt;undetermined&gt;dominant&gt;subordinate), which ranged from 55% in controls to only 10% in subordinate mice. The response of subordinate mice differed significantly from controls. Hippocampal neurogenesis was studied in the different groups of mice. In keeping with the tendency to engage habit learning, 2,5-bromodeoxyuridine (BrdU) incorporation in the DG was reduced in mice that experienced agonistic encounters, and so was the expression of doublecortin, a marker for immature neurons. These observations suggest that chronic social stress impairs neurogenesis in the adult hippocampus, weakens spatial learning and strengthens habit-like responses.
Intermittent hypoxia (IH), a characteristic of sleep apnea, was modeled in Fischer Brown Norway rats (10h/day for 7 days) followed by cognitive testing in an attentional set-shifting task. The ability to shift attention from one sensory modality (e.g., odor) to another (e.g., digging medium) was impaired, a finding that could not be attributed to deficits in attention, discrimination, learning, or motor performance. Instead, the deficit is likely to reflect impaired allocation of attentional resources of the working memory system.

Over the last years, the existence of different stem cells with myogenic potential has been widely investigated. Besides the classical skeletal muscle progenitors represented by satellite cells, numerous multipotent and embryologically unrelated progenitors with a potential role in muscle differentiation and repair have been identified. In order to conceive a therapeutic approach for degenerative muscle disorders, it is of primary importance to identify an ideal stem cell endowed with all the features for a possible use in vivo. Among all emerging populations, vessel-associated stem cells are a novel and promising class of multipotent progenitors of mesodermal origin and with high myogenic potential which seem to best fit all the requirements for a possible cell therapy. In vitro and in vivostudies have already tested the effectiveness and safety of vessel-associated stem cells in animal models. This leads to the concrete possibility in the future to start pilot human clinical trials, hopefully opening the way to a turning point in the treatment of genetic and acquired muscle disorders.
Alzheimer's disease is a progressive neurodegenerative disorder, either assuming a sporadic, age-associated, late-onset form, or a familial form, with early onset, in a smaller fraction of the cases. Whereas in the familial cases several mutations have been identified in genes encoding proteins related with the pathogenesis of the disease, for the sporadic form several causes have been proposed and are currently under debate. Mitochondrial dysfunction has surfaced as one of the most discussed hypotheses acting as a trigger for the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease. Mitochondria assume central functions in the cell, including ATP production, calcium homeostasis, reactive oxygen species generation, and apoptotic signaling. Although their role as the cause of the disease may be controversial, there is no doubt that mitochondrial dysfunction, abnormal mitochondrial dynamics and degradation by mitophagy occur during the disease process, contributing to its onset and progression.
Bovine adrenal zona fasciculata (AZF) cells express Ca(v)3.2 T-type Ca(2+) channels that function pivotally in adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH)-stimulated cortisol secretion. The regulation of Ca(v)3.2 expression in AZF cells by ACTH, cAMP analogs, and their metabolites was studied using Northern blot and patch clamp recording. Exposing AZF cells to ACTH for 3-6 days markedly enhanced the expression of Ca(v)3.2 current. The increase in Ca(v)3.2 current was preceded by an increase in corresponding CACNA1H mRNA. O-Nitrophenyl,sulfenyl-adrenocorticotropin, which produces a minimal increase in cAMP, also enhanced Ca(v)3.2 current. cAMP analogs, including 8-bromoadenosine cAMP (600 mum) and 6-benzoyladenosine cAMP (300 mum) induced CACNA1H mRNA, but not Ca(v)3.2 current. In contrast, 8-(4-chlorophenylthio) (8CPT)-cAMP (10-50 mum) enhanced CACNA1H mRNA and Ca(v)3.2 current, whereas nonhydrolyzable Sp-8CPT-cAMP failed to increase either Ca(v)3.2 current or mRNA. Metabolites of 8CPT-cAMP, including 8CPT-adenosine and 8CPT-adenine, increased Ca(v)3.2 current and mRNA with a potency and effectiveness similar to the parent compound. The Epac activator 8CPT-2'-O-methyl-cAMP and its metabolites 8CPT-2'-OMe-5'-AMP and 8CPT-2'-O-methyl-adenosine increased CACNA1H mRNA and Ca(v)3.2 current; Sp-8CPT-2'-O-methyl-cAMP increased neither Ca(v)3.2 current nor mRNA. These results reveal an interesting dichotomy between ACTH and cAMP with regard to regulation of CACNA1H mRNA and Ca(2+) current. Specifically, ACTH induces expression of CACNA1H mRNA and Ca(v)3.2 current in AZF cells by mechanisms that depend at most only partly on cAMP. In contrast, cAMP enhances expression of CACNA1H mRNA but not the corresponding Ca(2+) current. Surprisingly, chlorophenylthio-cAMP analogs stimulate the expression of Ca(v)3.2 current indirectly through metabolites. ACTH and the metabolites may induce Ca(v)3.2 expression by the same, unidentified mechanism.
During the development of the sympathetic nervous system, the p75 neurotrophin receptor (p75NTR) has a dual function: promoting survival together with TrkA in response to NGF, but inducing cell death upon binding pro or mature brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF). Apoptotic signaling through p75NTR requires activation of the stress kinase, JNK. However, the receptor also undergoes regulated proteolysis, first by a metalloprotease, and then by gamma-secretase, in response to pro-apoptotic ligands and this is necessary for receptor mediated neuronal death (Kenchappa, R. S., Zampieri, N., Chao, M. V., Barker, P. A., Teng, H. K., Hempstead, B. L., and Carter, B. D. (2006) Neuron 50, 219-232). Hence, the relationship between JNK activation and receptor proteolysis remains to be defined. Here, we report that JNK3 activation is necessary for p75NTR cleavage; however, following release of the intracellular domain, there is a secondary activation of JNK3 that is cleavage dependent. Receptor proteolysis and apoptosis were prevented in sympathetic neurons from jnk3(-/-) mice, while activation of JNK by ectopic expression of MEKK1 induced p75NTR cleavage and cell death. Proteolysis of the receptor was not detected until 6 h after BDNF treatment, suggesting that JNK3 promotes cleavage through a transcriptional mechanism. In support of this hypothesis, BDNF up-regulated tumor necrosis factor-alpha-converting enzyme (TACE)/ADAM17 mRNA and protein in wild-type, but not jnk3(-/-) sympathetic neurons. Down-regulation of TACE by RNA interference blocked BDNF-induced p75NTR cleavage and apoptosis, indicating that this metalloprotease is responsible for the initial processing of the receptor. Together, these results demonstrate that p75NTR-mediated activation of JNK3 is required for up-regulation of TACE, which promotes receptor proteolysis, leading to prolonged activation of JNK3 and subsequent apoptosis in sympathetic neurons.
gamma-Secretase is a multimeric membrane protein complex composed of presenilin (PS), nicastrin, Aph-1, and Pen-2, which mediates intramembrane proteolysis of a range of type I transmembrane proteins. We previously analyzed the functional roles of the N-terminal transmembrane domains (TMDs) 1-6 of PS1 in the assembly and proteolytic activity of the gamma-secretase using a series of TMD-swap PS1 mutants. Here we applied the TMD-swap method to all the TMDs of PS1 for the structure-function analysis of the proteolytic mechanism of gamma-secretase. We found that TMD2- or -6-swapped mutant PS1 failed to bind the helical peptide-based, substrate-mimic gamma-secretase inhibitor. Cross-linking experiments revealed that both TMD2 and TMD6 of PS1 locate in proximity to the TMD9, the latter being implicated in the initial substrate binding. Taken together, our data suggest that TMD2 and the luminal side of TMD6 are involved in the formation of the initial substrate-binding site of the gamma-secretase complex.


The aim of this project was to establish the relationship between sweat production and the electrodermal events comprising the sympathetic skin response to arousal stimuli. A series of randomly timed magnetic stimuli were applied to the neck of healthy human volunteers. Sympathetic skin responses and the associated sweat responses were recorded from the palms of both hands. Sympathetic skin responses typically had a biphasic shape consisting of a negative initial potential (palm relative to dorsum of hand) followed by a positive deflection. Sweat production was positively correlated with amplitude of the second positive deflection of the sympathetic skin response and negatively correlated with the amplitude of the initial negative deflection. For subjects showing only an initial negative sympathetic skin response, sweat release was low or not detectable. During habituation, the negative initial wave increased relative to the second positive wave, and sweat production fell. The strong correlation between the positive wave of the sympathetic skin response and sweat production suggests that the former may provide a quantitative functional measure of sudomotor activity in situations when it is impractical to measure the amount of sweat produced in the startle response. Thus, the positive component of the biphasic sympathetic skin response may be employed in clinical assessment of the functional efficacy of the sympathetic sudomotor system.

Tinnitus, the most common auditory disorder, affects about 40 million people in the United States alone, and its incidence is rising due to an aging population and increasing noise exposure. Although several approaches for the alleviation of tinnitus exist, there is as of yet no cure. The present article proposes a testable model for tinnitus that is grounded in recent findings from human imaging and focuses on brain areas in cortex, thalamus, and ventral striatum. Limbic and auditory brain areas are thought to interact at the thalamic level. While a tinnitus signal originates from lesion-induced plasticity of the auditory pathways, it can be tuned out by feedback connections from limbic regions, which block the tinnitus signal from reaching auditory cortex. If the limbic regions are compromised, this &quot;noise-cancellation&quot; mechanism breaks down, and chronic tinnitus results. Hopefully, this model will ultimately enable the development of effective treatment.
What happens to a single, presynaptically quiescent synapse among a population of active synapses? In this issue of Neuron, Ehlers and colleagues show that, far from being eliminated, these inactive synapses are primed for potentiation and incorporation into a new neural circuit through an upregulation of NR2B-containing NMDA receptors.

The lateral line system of larval zebrafish can translate hydrodynamic signals from the environment to guide body movements. Here, I demonstrate a spatial relationship between the organization of afferent neurons in the lateral line ganglion and the innervation of neuromasts along the body. I developed a whole cell patch clamp recording technique to show that afferents innervate multiple direction-sensitive neuromasts, which are sensitive to low fluid velocities. This work lays the foundation to integrate sensory neuroscience and the hydrodynamics of locomotion in a model genetic system.

Hippocampal neurogenesis can be regulated by extrinsic factors, such as exercise and antidepressants. While there is evidence that the selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor (SSRI) fluoxetine enhances neurogenesis, the new dual serotonergic-noradrenergic reuptake inhibitor (SNRI) duloxetine has not been evaluated in this context. In addition, it is unclear whether effects of antidepressants and running on cell genesis and behavior are of similar magnitude in mice. Here, we assessed neurogenesis and open-field behavior in 2-month-old female C57Bl/6 mice after 28days of treatment with either fluoxetine (18mg/kg), duloxetine (2, 6 or 18mg/kg) or exercise. New cell survival, as measured by 5-bromo-2'-deoxyuridine (BrdU)-labeled cells, was enhanced by 200% in the running group only. Both running and fluoxetine, but not duloxetine, increased the percentage of new cells that became neurons. In the open-field test, animals treated with either drug spent less time in the center than controls and runners. In addition, fluoxetine treatment resulted in reduced locomotor activity. Together, these data show that the neurogenic response to exercise is much stronger than to antidepressants and imply a low likelihood that anxiolytic effects of these drugs are mediated by adult neurogenesis in C57Bl/6 mice.
Recent studies indicate that persistent pain after tissue or nerve injury is accompanied by an enhanced net descending facilitatory drive that contributes to an amplification and spread of pain. Although 5-HT-containing neurons in the rostral ventromedial medulla (RVM) provide the major descending serotonergic projection to the spinal cord, it is not clear whether the neurotransmitter 5-HT itself released from RVM-spinal neurons contributes to descending pain modulation. In the present study, we determined the role of the descending 5-HT in rat nocifensive behaviors after persistent pain by selectively depleting functional phenotypes of 5-HT in RVM neurons with regional shRNA interference (RNAi) of tryptophan hydroxylase-2 (Tph-2), the rate-limiting enzyme in the synthesis of neuronal 5-HT. Compared to negative control shRNA, Tph-2 shRNA induced significantly prolonged downregulation of Tph-2 in the RVM and 5-HT in spinal dorsal horn. The 5-HT-depleted rats showed normal pain sensitivity in responses to acute noxious stimulation. However, the same RNAi treatment attenuated formalin-induced spontaneous nocifensive responses and tissue or nerve injury-induced allodynia and hyperalgesia. Furthermore, in control shRNA-treated animals, intra-RVM microinjection of brain-derived neurotrophic factor produced a reversible hyperalgesia, which was completely prevented by Tph-2 RNAi pretreatment. Descending inhibition induced by intra-RVM electrical stimulation, but not microinjection of the mu- or kappa-opioid receptor agonists in control shRNA-treated animals was eliminated in 5-HT-depleted rats. These results indicate that the descending 5-HT from the RVM is an important contributor to pain facilitation during the development of persistent pain, and may not mediate opioid-induced descending inhibition in acute pain.
NMDA and kisspeptins can stimulate gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH) release after peripheral or central administration in mice. To determine whether these agonists act independently or through a common pathway, we have examined their ability to stimulate GnRH/luteinizing hormone (LH) release after peripheral or central administration in Kiss1- or Gpr54 (Kiss1r)-null mutant mice. Peripheral injection of NMDA failed to stimulate GnRH/LH release in prepubertal or gonadally intact mutant male mice. Dual-labeling experiments indicated a direct activation of Kiss1-expressing neurons in the arcuate nucleus. In contrast, central injection of NMDA into the lateral ventricle increased plasma LH levels in both Kiss1 and Gpr54 mutant male mice similar to the responses in wild-type mice. Central injection of NMDA stimulated c-Fos expression throughout the hypothalamus but not in GnRH neurons, suggesting an action at the nerve terminals only. In contrast, kisspeptin-10 stimulated LH release after both central and peripheral injection but induced c-Fos expression in GnRH neurons only after central administration. Finally, central injection of NMDA induces c-Fos expression in catecholamine- and nitric oxide-producing neurons in the hypothalamus of mutant mice, indicating a possible kisspeptin-independent GnRH/LH release by NMDA through activation of these neurons. Thus, NMDA may act at both GnRH cell bodies (kisspeptin-independent) and nerve terminals (kisspeptin-dependent) in a dual way to participate in the GnRH/LH secretion in the male mouse.
In cerebellar granule (CG) cells and many other neurons, A-type potassium currents play an important role in regulating neuronal excitability, firing patterns, and activity-dependent plasticity. Protein biochemistry has identified dipeptidyl peptidase-like protein 6 (DPP6) as an auxiliary subunit of Kv4-based A-type channels and thus a potentially important regulator of neuronal excitability. In this study, we used an RNA interference (RNAi) strategy to examine the role DPP6 plays in forming and shaping the electrophysiological properties of CG cells. DPP6 RNAi delivered by lentiviral vectors effectively disrupts DPP6 protein expression in CG cells. In response to the loss of DPP6, I(SA) peak conductance amplitude is reduced by &gt;85% in parallel with a dramatic reduction in the level of I(SA) channel protein complex found in CG cells. The I(SA) channels remaining in CG cells after suppression of DPP6 show alterations in gating similar to Kv4 channels expressed in heterologous systems without DPP6. In addition to these effects on A-type current, we find that loss of DPP6 has additional effects on input resistance and Na(+) channel conductance that combine with the effects on I(SA) to produce a global change in excitability. Overall, DPP6 expression seems to be critical for the expression of a high-frequency electrophysiological phenotype in CG cells by increasing leak conductance, A-type current levels and kinetics, and Na(+) current amplitude.
Filtering information on the basis of what is relevant to accomplish our goals is a critical process supporting optimal cognitive performance. However, it is not known whether exposure to irrelevant environmental stimuli impairs our ability to accurately retrieve long-term memories. We hypothesized that visual processing of irrelevant visual information would interfere with mental visualization engaged during recall of the details of a prior experience, despite goals to direct full attention to the retrieval task. In the current study, we compared performance on a cued-recall test of previously studied visual items when participants' eyes were closed to performance when their eyes were open and irrelevant visual stimuli were presented. A behavioral experiment revealed that recollection of episodic details was diminished in the presence of the irrelevant information. A functional magnetic resonance imaging experiment using the same paradigm replicated the behavioral results and found that diminished recollection was associated with the disruption of functional connectivity in a network involving the left inferior frontal gyrus, hippocampus and visual association cortex. Network connectivity supported recollection of contextual details based on visual imagery when eyes were closed, but declined in the presence of irrelevant visual information. We conclude that bottom-up influences from irrelevant visual information interfere with top-down selection of episodic details mediated by a capacity-limited frontal control region, resulting in impaired recollection.
Brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) signaling is critical for neuronal development and transmission. Recruitment of TrkB receptors to lipid rafts has been shown to be necessary for the activation of specific signaling pathways and modulation of neurotransmitter release by BDNF. Since TrkB receptors are known to be modulated by adenosine A(2A) receptor activation, we hypothesized that activation of A(2A) receptors could influence TrkB receptor localization among different membrane microdomains. We found that adenosine A(2A) receptor agonists increased the levels of TrkB receptors in the lipid raft fraction of cortical membranes and potentiated BDNF-induced augmentation of phosphorylated TrkB levels in lipid rafts. Blockade of the clathrin-mediated endocytosis with monodansylcadaverine (100 microm) did not modify the effects of the A(2A) receptor agonists but significantly impaired BDNF effects on TrkB recruitment to lipid rafts. The effect of A(2A) receptor activation in TrkB localization was mimicked by 5 microm forskolin, an adenylyl cyclase activator. Also, it was blocked by the PKA inhibitors Rp-cAMPs and PKI-(14-22), and by the Src-family kinase inhibitor PP2. Moreover, removal of endogenous adenosine or disruption of lipid rafts reduced BDNF stimulatory effects on glutamate release from cortical synaptosomes. Lipid raft integrity was also required for the effects of BDNF on hippocampal long-term potentiation at CA1 synapses. Our data demonstrate, for the first time, a BDNF-independent recruitment of TrkB receptors to lipid rafts induced by activation of adenosine A(2A) receptors, with functional consequences for TrkB phosphorylation and BDNF-induced modulation of neurotransmitter release and hippocampal plasticity.
Behavioral studies have demonstrated that learning to read and write affects the processing of spoken language. The present study investigates the neural mechanism underlying the emergence of such orthographic effects during speech processing. Transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) was used to tease apart two competing hypotheses that consider this orthographic influence to be either a consequence of a change in the nature of the phonological representations during literacy acquisition or a consequence of online coactivation of the orthographic and phonological representations during speech processing. Participants performed an auditory lexical decision task in which the orthographic consistency of spoken words was manipulated and repetitive TMS was used to interfere with either phonological or orthographic processing by stimulating left supramarginal gyrus (SMG) or left ventral occipitotemporal cortex (vOTC), respectively. The advantage for consistently spelled words was removed only when the stimulation was delivered to SMG and not to vOTC, providing strong evidence that this effect arises at a phonological, rather than an orthographic, level. We propose a possible mechanistic explanation for the role of SMG in phonological processing and how this is affected by learning to read.
To explore the role of both Aplysia cell adhesion molecule (ApCAM) and activity of specific protein kinase C (PKC) isoforms in the initial formation of sensory neuron synapses with specific postsynaptic targets (L7 but not L11), we examined presynaptic growth, initial synapse formation, and the expression of the presynaptic neuropeptide sensorin following cell-specific reduction of ApCAM or of a novel PKC activity. Synapse formation between sensory neurons and L7 begins by 3 h after plating and is accompanied by a rapid accumulation of a novel PKC to sites of synaptic interaction. Reducing ApCAM expression specifically from the surface of L7 blocks presynaptic growth and initial synapse formation, target-induced increase of sensorin in sensory neuron cell bodies and the rapid accumulation of the novel PKC to sites of interaction. Selective blockade of the novel PKC activity in L7, but not in sensory neurons, with injection of a dominant negative construct that interferes with the novel PKC activity, produces the same actions as downregulating ApCAM; blockade of presynaptic growth and initial synapse formation, and the target-induced increase of sensorin in sensory neuron cell bodies. The results indicate that signals initiated by postsynaptic cell adhesion molecule ApCAM coupled with the activation of a novel PKC in the appropriate postsynaptic neuron produce the retrograde signals required for presynaptic growth associated with initial synapse formation, and the target-induced expression of a presynaptic neuropeptide critical for synapse maturation.
Rapid eye movement (REM) sleep deprivation causes learning and memory deficits. Neuropeptide S, a newly discovered neuropeptide, has been shown to regulate arousal, anxiety, and may enhance long-term memory formation and spatial memory. However, it is unknown whether neuropeptide S could improve the REM sleep deprivation-induced memory impairment. Here, we report that 72-h REM sleep deprivation in rats resulted in spatial memory impairment and reduced phosphorylation level of cAMP-response element binding protein in the hippocampus, both of which were reversed by central administration of neuropeptide S. The results suggest that neuropeptide S mitigates spatial memory impairment in rats induced by 72-h REM sleep deprivation, possibly through activating cAMP-response element binding protein phosphorylation in the hippocampus.
The late positive potential (LPP) depicts brain electrical activity during both automatic and controlled sustained attentional processing of emotional stimuli. We investigated in a sample of 18 healthy women how the LPP is modulated by facial expression during an explicit valence rating task and an implicit sex classification task. Midline LPP amplitudes were significantly larger for valence rating than for sex classification. During valence rating, faces with a positive valence resulted in larger LPP amplitudes at centrofrontal electrodes than faces with a negative valence. During sex classification, a similar valence effect was observed at midline parietal electrodes. This implicit LPP valence effect appears to depend on higher visual processing, as during an additional sex classification task with blurred faces no such implicit valence effect was found.




Pitch is a fundamental percept with a complex relationship to the associated sound structure. Pitch perception requires brain representation of both the structure of the stimulus and the pitch that is perceived. We describe direct recordings of local field potentials from human auditory cortex made while subjects perceived the transition between noise and a noise with a regular repetitive structure in the time domain at the millisecond level called regular-interval noise (RIN). RIN is perceived to have a pitch when the rate is above the lower limit of pitch, at approximately 30 Hz. Sustained time-locked responses are observed to be related to the temporal regularity of the stimulus, commonly emphasized as a relevant stimulus feature in models of pitch perception (e.g., [1]). Sustained oscillatory responses are also demonstrated in the high gamma range (80-120 Hz). The regularity responses occur irrespective of whether the response is associated with pitch perception. In contrast, the oscillatory responses only occur for pitch. Both responses occur in primary auditory cortex and adjacent nonprimary areas. The research suggests that two types of pitch-related activity occur in humans in early auditory cortex: time-locked neural correlates of stimulus regularity and an oscillatory response related to the pitch percept.
Tmub1 (C7orf21/HOPS) encodes a protein containing a ubiquitin-like domain. Tmub1 is highly expressed in the nervous system. To study its physiological function, we generated mice with Tmub1 deleted by homologous recombination. The knockout mice were grossly normal and viable. In a comprehensive behavioral testing battery, the only knockout phenotype displayed was a strong increase in home cage locomotor activity during the dark phase (subjective day) of the light:dark (L:D) cycle. There were no changes in activity during the light period. There were no changes in locomotor activity observed in other assays, e.g. novel open-field. The increase in dark phase locomotor activity persisted during a seven day D:D (complete darkness) challenge, and remained largely confined to the normally dark period. Telemetric recording in freely moving subjects for one 24 hr L:D cycle, revealed the same increase in locomotor activity in the dark phase. In addition, EEG analysis showed that the knockout mice exhibited increased waking and decreased NREM &amp; REM times during the dark phase, but the EEG was otherwise normal. Using lacZ as a reporter we found Tmub1 expression prominent in a few brain structures including the thalamus, a region known to drive wakefulness and arousal via its projections to the cortex. We identified calcium modulating cyclophilin ligand CAMLG/CAML as a binding partner by a yeast two-hybrid screen of a brain library. The interaction of Tmub1 and CAMLG was confirmed by co-immunoprecipitation assays in HEK cells. The two proteins were also found to be co-localized to the cytoplasm when expressed in HEK cells. Both Tmub1 and CAMLG have been recently described in the regulation of membrane trafficking of specific receptors. Taken together our results implicate Tmub1 in the regulation of locomotor activity and wakefulness and suggest that Tmub1 binds to and functions together with CAMLG.
Nocturnin is a circadian clock-regulated deadenylase thought to control mRNA expression post-transcriptionally through poly(A) tail removal. The expression of Nocturnin is robustly rhythmic in liver at both the mRNA and protein levels, and mice lacking Nocturnin are resistant to diet-induced obesity and hepatic steatosis. Here we report that Nocturnin expression is regulated by microRNA-122 (miR-122), a liver specific miRNA. We found that the 3'-untranslated region (3'-UTR) of Nocturnin mRNA harbors one putative recognition site for miR-122, and this site is conserved among mammals. Using a luciferase reporter construct with wild-type or mutant Nocturnin 3'-UTR sequence, we demonstrated that overexpression of miR-122 can down-regulate luciferase activity levels and that this effect is dependent on the presence of the putative miR-122 recognition site. Additionally, the use of an antisense oligonucleotide to knock down miR-122 in vivo resulted in significant up-regulation of both Nocturnin mRNA and protein expression in mouse liver during the night, resulting in Nocturnin rhythms with increased amplitude. Together, these data demonstrate that the normal rhythmic profile of Nocturnin expression in liver is shaped in part by miR-122. Previous studies have implicated Nocturnin and miR-122 as important post-transcriptional regulators of both lipid metabolism and circadian clock controlled gene expression in the liver. Therefore, the demonstration that miR-122 plays a role in regulating Nocturnin expression suggests that this may be an important intersection between hepatic metabolic and circadian control.

In this study, we have used a microRNA-regulated lentiviral reporter system to visualize and segregate differentiating neuronal cells in pluripotent cultures. Efficient suppression of transgene expression, specifically in undifferentiated pluripotent cells, was achieved by using a lentiviral vector expressing a fluorescent reporter gene regulated by microRNA-292. Using this strategy, it was possible to track progeny from murine ES, human ES cells, and induced pluripotent stem cells as they differentiated toward the neural lineage. In addition, this strategy was successfully used to FACS purify neuronal progenitors for molecular analysis and transplantation. FACS enrichment reduced tumor formation and increased survival of ES cell-derived neuronal progenitors after transplantation. The properties and versatility of the microRNA-regulated vectors allows broad use of these vectors in stem cell applications.

Mutation of rod photoreceptor-enriched transcription factors is a major cause of inherited blindness. We identified the orphan nuclear hormone receptor estrogen-related receptor beta (ERRbeta) as selectively expressed in rod photoreceptors. Overexpression of ERRbeta induces expression of rod-specific genes in retinas of wild-type as well as Nrl(-/-) mice, which lack rod photoreceptors. Mutation of ERRbeta results in dysfunction and degeneration of rods, whereas inverse agonists of ERRbeta trigger rapid rod degeneration, which is rescued by constitutively active mutants of ERRbeta. ERRbeta coordinates expression of multiple genes that are rate-limiting regulators of ATP generation and consumption in photoreceptors. Furthermore, enhancing ERRbeta activity rescues photoreceptor defects that result from loss of the photoreceptor-specific transcription factor Crx. Our findings demonstrate that ERRbeta is a critical regulator of rod photoreceptor function and survival, and suggest that ERRbeta agonists may be useful in the treatment of certain retinal dystrophies.

Adaptations in the anterior cingulate cortex (ACC) have been implicated in alcohol and drug addiction. To identify genes that may contribute to excessive drinking, here we performed microarray analyses in laser microdissected rat ACC after a single or repeated administration of an intoxicating dose of alcohol (3 g/kg). Expression of the small G protein K-ras was differentially regulated following both single and repeated alcohol administration. We also observed that voluntary alcohol intake in K-ras heterozygous null mice (K-ras(+/-)) did not increase after withdrawal from repeated cycles of intermittent ethanol vapor exposure, unlike in their wild-type littermates. To identify K-ras regulated pathways, we then profiled gene expression in the ACC of K-ras(+/-), heterozygous null mice for the K-ras negative regulator Nf1 (Nf1(+/-)) and wild-type mice following repeated administration of an intoxicating dose of alcohol. Pathway analysis showed that alcohol differentially affected various pathways in a K-ras dependent manner - some of which previously shown to be regulated by alcohol - including the insulin/PI3K pathway, the NF-kappaB, the phosphodiesterases (PDEs) pathway, the Jak/Stat and the adipokine signaling pathways. Altogether, the data implicate K-ras-regulated pathways in the regulation of excessive alcohol drinking after a history of dependence.
The anterior cingulate cortex (ACC) has been implicated in alcohol and drug addiction. We recently identified the small G protein K-ras as an alcohol-regulated gene in the ACC by gene expression analysis. We show here that the adiponectin receptor 2 (AdipoR2) was differentially regulated by alcohol in the ACC in a K-ras-dependent manner. Additionally, withdrawal-associated increased drinking was attenuated in AdipoR2 null mice. Intracellular recordings revealed that adiponectin increased the excitability of ACC neurons and that this effect was more pronounced during alcohol withdrawal, suggesting that AdipoR2 signaling may contribute to increased ACC activity. Altogether, the data implicate K-ras-regulated pathways involving AdipoR2 in the cellular and behavioral actions of alcohol that may contribute to overactivity of the ACC during withdrawal and excessive alcohol drinking.
Endosomal sorting complex required for transport (ESCRT)-III subunit charged multivesicular body protein 2B (CHMP2B) is involved in the degradation of proteins in the endocytic and autophagic pathways. Mutations in the CHMP2B gene are reportedly associated with frontotemporal dementia (FTD) and amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) characterised by accumulation of ubiquitinated protein aggregates in affected neurons, suggesting a relationship between protein accumulation and efficient autophagic degradation. This study investigated CHMP2B immunoreactivity in the hippocampus of patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD), revealing intense labeling of intraneuronal dot-like structures by antibody to CHMP2B. Since the morphological characteristics of these granular structures were compatible with those of granulovacuolar degeneration (GVD), a hallmark of AD pathology, immunohistochemical study using anti-CHMP2B antibody was performed using AD and control brain sections to investigate whether this antibody can be used as a GVD label. The number and percentage of hippocampal neurons with CHMP2B-positive granules were higher in AD cases and CHMP2B-positive granules corresponded to GVD. Anti-CHMP2B antibody detected a single 28-kDa band on Western blotting using control and AD specimens. This antibody clearly and intensely detected GVD over the hippocampus and entorhinal and transentorhinal cortices. These findings suggest that researchers will be able to use CHMP2B as a molecular label for studying GVD.
Mutations in the glucocerebrosidase gene (GBA) have recently been associated with an increased risk of Parkinson disease (PD). GBA mutations have been observed to be particularly prevalent in the Ashkenazi Jewish population. Interestingly, this population also has a high incidence of the Lrrk2 p.G2019S mutation which is similar in North African Arab-Berber populations. Herein, our sequencing of the GBA gene, in 33 North African Arab-Berber familial parkinsonism probands, identified two novel mutations in three individuals (p.K-26R and p.K186R). Segregation analysis of these two variants did not support a pathogenic role. Genotyping of p.K-26R, p.K186R and the common p.N370S in an ethnically matched series consisting of 395 patients with PD and 372 control subjects did not show a statistically significant association (P&gt;0.05). The p.N370S mutation was only identified in 1 sporadic patient with PD and 3 control subjects indicating that the frequency of this mutation in the North African Arab-Berber population is much lower than that observed in Ashkenazi Jews, and therefore arose in the latter after expansion of the Lrrk2 p.G2019S variant in North Africa.
We describe a high speed 3D Acousto-Optic Lens Microscope (AOLM) for femtosecond 2-photon imaging. By optimizing the design of the 4 AO Deflectors (AODs) and by deriving new control algorithms, we have developed a compact spherical AOL with a low temporal dispersion that enables 2-photon imaging at 10-fold lower power than previously reported. We show that the AOLM can perform high speed 2D raster-scan imaging (&gt;150 Hz) without scan rate dependent astigmatism. It can deflect and focus a laser beam in a 3D random access sequence at 30 kHz and has an extended focusing range (&gt;137 mum; 40X 0.8NA objective). These features are likely to make the AOLM a useful tool for studying fast physiological processes distributed in 3D space.
Epithelia often show, in addition to the ubiquitous apico-basal (A/B) axis, a polarization within the plane of the epithelium, perpendicular to the A/B axis. Such planar cell polarity (PCP) is for example evident in the regular arrangement of the stereocilia in the cochlea of the mammalian inner ear or in (almost) all Drosophila adult external structures. GIPCs (GAIP interacting protein, C terminus) were first identified in mammals and bind to the Galphai GTPase activating protein RGS-GAIP. They have been proposed to act in a G-protein coupled complex controlling vesicular trafficking. Although GIPCs have been found to bind to numerous proteins including Frizzled receptors, which participate in PCP establishment, there is little in vivo evidence for the functional role(s) of GIPCs. We show here that overexpressed Drosophila dGIPC alters PCP generation in the wing. We were however unable to find any binding between dGIPC and the Drosophila receptors Fz1 and Fz2. The effect of overexpressed dGIPC is likely due to an effect on the actin cytoskeleton via myosins, since it is almost entirely suppressed by removing a genomic copy of the Myosin VI/jaguar gene. Surprisingly, although dGIPC can interfere with PCP generation and myosin based processes, the complete loss-of-function of dGIPC gives viable adults with no PCP or other detectable defects arguing for a non-essential role of dGIPC in viability and normal Drosophila development.



MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are small regulatory RNAs that individually regulate up to several hundred genes, and collectively may regulate as much as two-thirds of the transcriptome. Recent evidence supports a role for miRNA dysregulation in psychiatric and neurological disorders, including schizophrenia, bipolar disorder, and autism. Small changes in miRNA expression can fine-tune the expression of multiple genes within a biological network, suggesting that miRNA dysregulation may underlie many of the molecular changes observed in psychiatric disease, and that therapeutic regulation of miRNA levels may represent a novel treatment option.
The importance of aberrant RNA processing in neurodegeneration is becoming increasingly clear; a recent example being the identification of the splicing factor TDP-43 as the major component of inclusions characteristic of a number of neurodegenerative conditions including amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS). Due to the enormous diversity generated by alternative splicing and its importance in the nervous system, it is no surprise that defective alternative splicing in disease has been particularly well documented. However, in addition to splicing, other RNA processing events such as RNA editing, polyadenylation and mRNA stability are also disrupted in some neurological disorders. For instance: the editing efficiency of specific ionotropic receptors is reduced in ALS affecting ion permeability and the function of RNA-processing proteins is affected by their sequestration to trinucleotide repeat expanded mRNAs in several disorders. Due to the extensive coupling between RNA processing events and the multifunctionality of the RNA processing factors that regulate them, it is important to consider RNA processing as a whole. Here we review RNA processing events and their extensive coupling to one another and detail the associations of RNA processing including, but not exclusively, alternative splicing with neurodegeneration.
Regulated permeability changes have been detected in mitochondria across species. We review here their key features, with the goal of assessing whether a &quot;permeability transition&quot; similar to that observed in higher eukaryotes is present in other species. The recent discoveries (i) that treatment with cyclosporin A (CsA) unmasks an inhibitory site for inorganic phosphate (Pi) [Basso, E., Petronilli, V., Forte, M.A. and Bernardi, P. (2008) Phosphate is essential for inhibition of the mitochondrial permeability transition pore by cyclosporin A and by cyclophilin D ablation. J. Biol. Chem. 283, 26307-26311], the classical inhibitor of the permeability transition of yeast and (ii) that under proper experimental conditions a matrix Ca(2+)-dependence can be demonstrated in yeast as well [Yamada, A., Yamamoto, T., Yoshimura, Y., Gouda, S., Kawashima, S., Yamazaki, N., Yamashita, K., Kataoka, M., Nagata, T., Terada, H., Pfeiffer, D.R. and Shinohara Y. (2009) Ca(2+)-induced permeability transition can be observed even in yeast mitochondria under optimized experimental conditions. Biochim. Biophys. Acta 1787, 1486-1491] suggest that the mitochondrial permeability transition has been conserved during evolution.
Synaptic activity and the generation of nuclear calcium signals promote neuronal survival through a transcription-dependent process that is not fully understood. Here we show that one mechanism of activity-induced acquired neuroprotection involves the Forkhead transcription factor, FoxO3a, which is known to induce genomic death responses upon translocation from the cytosol to the nucleus. Depletion of endogenous FoxO3a using RNA interference renders hippocampal neurons more resistant to excitotoxic cell death. Using a FoxO3a-green fluorescent protein (GFP) fusion protein to monitor in real time the localization of FoxO3a in hippocampal neurons, we found that several cell death inducing stimuli, including the stimulation of extrasynaptic N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors, growth factor withdrawal, and oxygen-glucose deprivation, caused a swift translocation of FoxO3a-GFP from the cytosol to the cell nucleus. This translocation was inhibited in hippocampal neurons that had undergone prolonged periods of synaptic activity before exposure to cell death-inducing conditions. The activity-dependent protection from death signal-induced FoxO3a-GFP nuclear translocation required synaptic N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor activation and was dependent on nuclear calcium signaling and calcium/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase IV. The modulation of nucleo-cytoplasmic shuttling of FoxO3a may represent one mechanism through which nuclear calcium-induced genomic responses affect cell death processes.
Five highly conserved polar residues connected by a number of structural water molecules together with two rotamer micro-switches, TrpVI:13 and TyrVII:20, constitute an extended hydrogen bond network between the intracellular segments of TM-I, -II, -VI, and -VII of 7TM receptors. Molecular dynamics simulations showed that, although the fewer water molecules in rhodopsin were relatively movable, the hydrogen bond network of the beta2-adrenergic receptor was fully loaded with water molecules that were surprisingly immobilized between the two rotamer switches, both apparently being in their closed conformation. Manipulations of the rotamer state of TyrVII:20 and TrpVI:13 demonstrated that these residues served as gates for the water molecules at the intracellular and extracellular ends of the hydrogen bond network, respectively. TrpVI:13 at the bottom of the main ligand-binding pocket was shown to apparently function as a catching trap for water molecules. Mutational analysis of the beta2-adrenergic receptor demonstrated that the highly conserved polar residues of the hydrogen bond network were all important for receptor signaling but served different functions, some dampening constitutive activity (AsnI:18, AspII:10, and AsnVII:13), whereas others (AsnVII:12 and AsnVII:16) located one helical turn apart and sharing a water molecule were shown to be essential for agonist-induced signaling. It is concluded that the conserved water hydrogen bond network of 7TM receptors constitutes an extended allosteric interface between the transmembrane segments being of crucial importance for receptor signaling and that part of the function of the rotamer micro-switches, TyrVII:20 and TrpVI:13, is to gate or trap the water molecules.
Silicon nanowire (Si NW)-based field effect transistors (FETs) have shown great potential as biosensors (bioFETs) for ultra-sensitive and label-free detection of biomolecular interactions. Their sensitivity depends not only on the device properties, but also on the function of the biological recognition motif attached to the Si NWs. In this study, we show that SiNWs can be chemically functionalized with Ni:NTA motifs, suitable for the specific immobilization of proteins via a short polyhistidine tag (His-tag) at close proximity to the SiNW surface. We demonstrate that the proteins preserve their function upon immobilization onto SiNWs. Importantly, the protein immobilization on the Si NWs is shown to be reversible after addition of EDTA or imidazole, thus allowing the regeneration of the bioFET when needed, such as in the case of proteins having a limited lifetime. We anticipate that our methodology may find a generic use for the development of bioFETs exploiting functional protein assays because of its high compatibility to various types of NWs and proteins.
In the adult brain, space and orientation are represented by an elaborate hippocampal-parahippocampal circuit consisting of head-direction cells, place cells, and grid cells. We report that a rudimentary map of space is already present when 2 1/2-week-old rat pups explore an open environment outside the nest for the first time. Head-direction cells in the pre- and parasubiculum have adultlike properties from the beginning. Place and grid cells are also present but evolve more gradually. Grid cells show the slowest development. The gradual refinement of the spatial representation is accompanied by an increase in network synchrony among entorhinal stellate cells. The presence of adultlike directional signals at the onset of navigation raises the possibility that such signals are instrumental in setting up networks for place and grid representation.

The blood oxygenation level-dependent (BOLD) functional MRI response to suppressive neural activity has not been tested on a fine spatial scale. Using Gabor patches placed in the near periphery, we precisely localized individual regions of interest in primary visual cortex and measured the response at a range of contrasts in two different contexts: with parallel and with orthogonal flanking Gabor patches. Psychophysical measurements confirmed strong suppression of the target Gabor response when flanked by parallel Gabors. However, the BOLD response to the target with parallel flankers decreased as the target contrast increased, which contradicts psychophysical estimates of local neural activity.
The resistive or non-resistive nature of the extracellular space in the brain is still debated, and is an important issue for correctly modeling extracellular potentials. Here, we first show theoretically that if the medium is resistive, the frequency scaling should be the same for electroencephalogram (EEG) and magnetoencephalogram (MEG) signals at low frequencies (&lt;10 Hz). To test this prediction, we analyzed the spectrum of simultaneous EEG and MEG measurements in four human subjects. The frequency scaling of EEG displays coherent variations across the brain, in general between 1/f and 1/f (2). In a given region, although the variability of the frequency scaling exponent was higher for MEG compared to EEG, both signals consistently scale with a different exponent. In some cases, the scaling was similar, but only when the signal-to-noise ratio of the MEG was low. Several methods of noise correction for environmental and instrumental noise were tested, and they all increased the difference between EEG and MEG scaling. In conclusion, there is a significant difference in frequency scaling between EEG and MEG, which can be explained if the extracellular medium (including other layers such as dura matter and skull) is globally non-resistive.
Early in life, neural circuits are highly susceptible to outside influences. The organization of the primary auditory cortex (A1) in particular is governed by acoustic experience during the critical period, an epoch near the beginning of postnatal development throughout which cortical synapses and networks are especially plastic. This neonatal sensitivity to the pattern of sensory inputs is believed to be essential for constructing stable and adequately adapted representations of the auditory world and for the acquisition of language skills by children. One important principle of synaptic organization in mature brains is the balance between excitation and inhibition, which controls receptive field structure and spatiotemporal flow of neural activity, but it is unknown how and when this excitatory-inhibitory balance is initially established and calibrated. Here we use whole-cell recording to determine the processes underlying the development of synaptic receptive fields in rat A1. We find that, immediately after the onset of hearing, sensory-evoked excitatory and inhibitory responses are equally strong, although inhibition is less stimulus-selective and mismatched with excitation. However, during the third week of postnatal development, excitation and inhibition become highly correlated. Patterned sensory stimulation drives coordinated synaptic changes across receptive fields, rapidly improves excitatory-inhibitory coupling and prevents further exposure-induced modifications. Thus, the pace of cortical synaptic receptive field development is set by progressive, experience-dependent refinement of intracortical inhibition.
Biologically detailed single neuron and network models are important for understanding how ion channels, synapses and anatomical connectivity underlie the complex electrical behavior of the brain. While neuronal simulators such as NEURON, GENESIS, MOOSE, NEST, and PSICS facilitate the development of these data-driven neuronal models, the specialized languages they employ are generally not interoperable, limiting model accessibility and preventing reuse of model components and cross-simulator validation. To overcome these problems we have used an Open Source software approach to develop NeuroML, a neuronal model description language based on XML (Extensible Markup Language). This enables these detailed models and their components to be defined in a standalone form, allowing them to be used across multiple simulators and archived in a standardized format. Here we describe the structure of NeuroML and demonstrate its scope by converting into NeuroML models of a number of different voltage- and ligand-gated conductances, models of electrical coupling, synaptic transmission and short-term plasticity, together with morphologically detailed models of individual neurons. We have also used these NeuroML-based components to develop an highly detailed cortical network model. NeuroML-based model descriptions were validated by demonstrating similar model behavior across five independently developed simulators. Although our results confirm that simulations run on different simulators converge, they reveal limits to model interoperability, by showing that for some models convergence only occurs at high levels of spatial and temporal discretisation, when the computational overhead is high. Our development of NeuroML as a common description language for biophysically detailed neuronal and network models enables interoperability across multiple simulation environments, thereby improving model transparency, accessibility and reuse in computational neuroscience.

We have recently described a novel type of glial cell that is scattered across the inner layers of the avian retina [1]. These cells are stimulated by insulin-like growth factor 1 (IGF1) to proliferate, migrate distally into the retina, and up-regulate the nestin-related intermediate filament transition. These changes in glial activity correspond with increased susceptibility of neurons to excitotoxic damage. This novel cell-type has been termed the Non-astrocytic Inner Retinal Glia-like (NIRG) cells. The purpose of the study was to investigate whether the retinas of non-avian species contain cells that resemble NIRG cells. We assayed for NIRG cells by probing for the expression of Sox2, Sox9, Nkx2.2, vimentin and nestin. NIRG cells were distinguished from astrocytes by a lack of expression for Glial Fibrilliary Acidic Protein (GFAP). We examined the retinas of adult mice, guinea pigs, dogs and monkeys (Macaca fasicularis). In the mouse retina and optic nerve head, we identified numerous astrocytes that expressed GFAP, S100beta, Sox2 and Sox9; however, we found no evidence for NIRG-like cells that were positive for Nkx2.2, nestin, and negative for GFAP. In the guinea pig retina, we did not find astrocytes or NIRG cells in the retina, whereas we identified astrocytes in the optic nerve. In the eyes of dogs and monkeys, we found astrocytes and NIRG-like cells scattered across inner layers of the retina and within the optic nerve. We conclude that NIRG-like cells are present in the retinas of canines and non-human primates, whereas the retinas of mice and guinea pigs do not contain NIRG cells.
The interplay among commonly used physicochemical properties in drug design was examined and utilized to create a prospective design tool focused on the alignment of key druglike attributes. Using a set of six physicochemical parameters ((a) lipophilicity, calculated partition coefficient (ClogP); (b) calculated distribution coefficient at pH = 7.4 (ClogD); (c) molecular weight (MW); (d) topological polar surface area (TPSA); (e) number of hydrogen bond donors (HBD); (f) most basic center (pK(a))), a druglikeness central nervous system multiparameter optimization (CNS MPO) algorithm was built and applied to a set of marketed CNS drugs (N = 119) and Pfizer CNS candidates (N = 108), as well as to a large diversity set of Pfizer proprietary compounds (N = 11303). The novel CNS MPO algorithm showed that 74% of marketed CNS drugs displayed a high CNS MPO score (MPO desirability score  4, using a scale of 0-6), in comparison to 60% of the Pfizer CNS candidates. This analysis suggests that this algorithm could potentially be used to identify compounds with a higher probability of successfully testing hypotheses in the clinic. In addition, a relationship between an increasing CNS MPO score and alignment of key in vitro attributes of drug discovery (favorable permeability, P-glycoprotein (P-gp) efflux, metabolic stability, and safety) was seen in the marketed CNS drug set, the Pfizer candidate set, and the Pfizer proprietary diversity set. The CNS MPO scoring function offers advantages over hard cutoffs or utilization of single parameters to optimize structure-activity relationships (SAR) by expanding medicinal chemistry design space through a holistic assessment approach. Based on six physicochemical properties commonly used by medicinal chemists, the CNS MPO function may be used prospectively at the design stage to accelerate the identification of compounds with increased probability of success.
As part of our effort to increase survival of drug candidates and to move our medicinal chemistry design to higher probability space for success in the Neuroscience therapeutic area, we embarked on a detailed study of the property space for a collection of central nervous system (CNS) molecules. We carried out a thorough analysis of properties for 119 marketed CNS drugs and a set of 108 Pfizer CNS candidates. In particular, we focused on understanding the relationships between physicochemical properties, in vitro ADME (absorption, distribution, metabolism, and elimination) attributes, primary pharmacology binding efficiencies, and in vitro safety data for these two sets of compounds. This scholarship provides guidance for the design of CNS molecules in a property space with increased probability of success and may lead to the identification of druglike candidates with favorable safety profiles that can successfully test hypotheses in the clinic.
The new mixed dopamaine D(2)/serotonin 5-HT(2A) antagonist, Fanapt (iloperidone), was approved by the FDA on May 6th, 2009 for the treatment of schizophrenia in adults.
KChIP4a shows a high homology with other members of the family of Kv channel-interacting proteins (KChIPs) in the conserved C-terminal core region, but exhibits a unique modulation of Kv4 channel gating and surface expression. Unlike KChIP1, the KChIP4 splice variant KChIP4a has been shown to inhibit surface expression and function as a suppressor of channel inactivation of Kv4. In this study, we sought to determine whether the multitasking KChIP4a modulates Kv4 function in a clamping fashion similar to that shown by KChIP1. Injection of Kv4.3 T1 zinc mutants into Xenopus oocytes resulted in the nonfunctional expression of Kv4.3 channels. Coexpression of Kv4.3 zinc mutants with WT KChIP4a gave rise to the functional expression of Kv4.3 current. Oocyte surface labeling results confirm the correlation between functional rescue and enhanced surface expression of zinc mutant proteins. Chimeric mutations that replace the Kv4.3 N-terminus with N-terminal KChIP4a or N-terminal deletion of KChIP4a further demonstrate that the functional rescue of Kv4.3 channel tetramerization mutants depends on the KChIP4a core region, but not its N-terminus. Structure-guided mutation of two critical residues of core KChIP4a attenuated functional rescue and tetrameric assembly. Moreover, size exclusion chromatography combined with fast protein liquid chromatography showed that KChIP4a can drive zinc mutant monomers to assemble as tetramers. Taken together, our results show that KChIP4a can rescue the function of tetramerization-defective Kv4 monomers. Therefore, we propose that core KChIP4a functions to promote tetrameric assembly and enhance surface expression of Kv4 channels by a clamping action, whereas its N-terminus inhibits surface expression of Kv4 by a mechanism that remains elusive.


Working memory performance is significantly influenced by genetic factors. Here, we assessed genetic contributions to both working memory performance and neuroimaging measures focused on the network of brain regions associated with working memory by using a sample of 467 human participants from extended families. Imaging measures included diffusion tensor imaging indices in major white matter tracts thought to be associated with working memory and structural magnetic resonance imaging measures of frontal and parietal gray matter density. Analyses directly addressed whether working memory performance and neural structural integrity are influenced by common genetic factors (e.g., pleiotropy). While all cognitive measures, gray matter regions, and white matter tracts assessed were heritable, only performance on a spatial delayed response task and integrity of the superior longitudinal fasciculus (a primary fronto-parietal connection) shared genetic factors. As working memory may be a core component of other higher level processes, such as general intelligence, this finding has implications for the heritability of complex cognitive functions, as well as for our understanding of the transmission of cognitive deficits in mental and neurological disorders.
Several neurodegenerative diseases are typified by intraneuronal alpha-synuclein deposits, synaptic dysfunction, and dementia. While even modest alpha-synuclein elevations can be pathologic, the precise cascade of events induced by excessive alpha-synuclein and eventually culminating in synaptotoxicity is unclear. To elucidate this, we developed a quantitative model system to evaluate evolving alpha-synuclein-induced pathologic events with high spatial and temporal resolution, using cultured neurons from brains of transgenic mice overexpressing fluorescent-human-alpha-synuclein. Transgenic alpha-synuclein was pathologically altered over time and overexpressing neurons showed striking neurotransmitter release deficits and enlarged synaptic vesicles; a phenotype reminiscent of previous animal models lacking critical presynaptic proteins. Indeed, several endogenous presynaptic proteins involved in exocytosis and endocytosis were undetectable in a subset of transgenic boutons (&quot;vacant synapses&quot;) with diminished levels in the remainder, suggesting that such diminutions were triggering the overall synaptic pathology. Similar synaptic protein alterations were also retrospectively seen in human pathologic brains, highlighting potential relevance to human disease. Collectively the data suggest a previously unknown cascade of events where pathologic alpha-synuclein leads to a loss of a number of critical presynaptic proteins, thereby inducing functional synaptic deficits.


A novel, five-term relational reasoning paradigm was employed during functional magnetic resonance imaging to investigate neural correlates of the symbolic distance effect (SDE). Prior to scanning, participants learned a series of more-than (E&gt;D&gt;C&gt;B&gt;A) or less-than (A&lt;B&lt;C&lt;D&lt;E) ordered premise pairs. During scanning, inferential tests presented the premise pairs, adjacent, mutually entailed tasks (e.g., D&lt;E and B&gt;A) and nonadjacent one-step (A&lt;C, B&lt;D, C&lt;E, C&gt;A, D&gt;B and E&gt;C) and two-step (A&lt;D, B&lt;E, D&gt;A and E&gt;B) combinatorial entailed tasks. In terms of brain activation, the SDE was identified in the inferior frontal cortex, dorsolateral prefrontal cortex, and bilateral parietal cortex with a graded activation pattern from adjacent to one-step and two-step relations. We suggest that this captures the behavioural SDE of increased accuracy and decreased reaction time from adjacent to two-step relations. One-step relations involving endpoints A or E resulted in greater parietal activation compared to one-step relations without endpoints. Novel contrasts found enhanced activation in right parietal and prefrontal cortices during mutually entailed tasks only for participants who had learned all less-than relations. Increased parietal activation was found for one-step tasks that were inconsistent with prior training. Overall, the findings demonstrate a crucial role for parietal cortex during relational reasoning with a spatially ordered array.
Many dopaminergic neurons exhibit a short-latency response to noxious stimuli, the source of which is unknown. Here we report that the nociceptive-recipient parabrachial nucleus appears to be a critical link in the transmission of pain related information to dopaminergic neurons. Injections of retrograde tracer into the substantia nigra pars compacta of the rat labelled neurons in both the lateral and medial parts of the parabrachial nucleus, and intra-parabrachial injections of anterograde tracers revealed robust projections to the pars compacta and ventral tegmental area. Axonal boutons were seen in close association with tyrosine hydroxylase-positive (presumed dopaminergic) and negative elements in these regions. Simultaneous extracellular recordings were made from parabrachial and dopaminergic neurons in the anaesthetized rat, during the application of noxious footshock. Parabrachial neurons exhibited a short-latency, short duration excitation to footshock while dopaminergic neurons exhibited a short-latency inhibition. Response latencies of dopaminergic neurons were reliably longer than those of parabrachial neurons. Intra-parabrachial injections of the local anaesthetic lidocaine or the GABA(A) receptor antagonist muscimol reduced tonic parabrachial activity and the amplitude (and in the case of lidocaine, duration) of the phasic response to footshock. Suppression of parabrachial activity with lidocaine reduced the baseline firing rate of dopaminergic neurons, while both lidocaine and muscimol reduced the amplitude of the phasic inhibitory response to footshock, in the case of lidocaine sometimes abolishing it altogether. Considered together, these results suggest that the parabrachial nucleus is an important source of short-latency nociceptive input to the dopaminergic neurons.
To develop an effective neuroprotective strategy against ischemic injury, it is important to identify the key molecules involved in the progression of injury. Direct molecular analysis of tissue using mass spectrometry (MS) is a subject of much interest in the field of metabolomics. Most notably, imaging mass spectrometry (IMS) allows visualization of molecular distributions on the tissue surface. To understand lipid dynamics during ischemic injury, we performed IMS analysis on rat brain tissue sections with focal cerebral ischemia. Sprague-Dawley rats were sacrificed at 24 h after middle cerebral artery occlusion, and brain sections were prepared. IMS analyses were conducted using matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization time-of-flight mass spectrometer (MALDI-TOF MS) in positive ion mode. To determine the molecular structures, the detected ions were subjected to tandem MS. The intensity counts of the ion signals of m/z 798.5 and m/z 760.5 that are revealed to be a phosphatidylcholine, PC (16:0/18:1) are reduced in the area of focal cerebral ischemia as compared to the normal cerebral area. In contrast, the signal of m/z 496.3, identified as a lyso-phosphatidylcholine, LPC (16:0), was clearly increased in the area of focal cerebral ischemia. In IMS analyses, changes of PC (16:0/18:1) and LPC (16:0) are observed beyond the border of the injured area. Together with previous reports--that PCs are hydrolyzed by phospholipase A(2) (PLA(2)) and produce LPCs,--our present results suggest that LPC (16:0) is generated during the injury process after cerebral ischemia, presumably via PLA(2) activation, and that PC (16:0/18:1) is one of its precursor molecules.
Pyrethroids are one of the most widely used class of insecticides and their toxicity is dominated by pharmacological actions upon the CNS. This study reports as the subchronic treatment (60 days) with permethrin (PERM) (1/10 of LD(50)) induced nuclear DNA damage in rat striatum cells. Comet assay outcomes showed that PERM produced single- and double-strand breaks in striatum cells, the DNA damage was not related to oxidation at pyrimidine and purine bases. Vitamin E (280 mg/kg body weight/day) and vitamin E+coenzyme Q(10) (10 mg/kg/3 ml) supplementation could protect PERM treated rats against nuclear DNA damage. With the aim to evaluate the cause of nuclear DNA damage observed in striatum of rat treated with PERM, in vitro studies on striatum submitochondrial particles (SMPs) and on striatum cells treated with 10 muM PERM alone or plus 16 or 32 nM GSH were performed. SMPs incubated with PERM showed a decrease in superoxide anion release from the electron transport chain by inhibition of mitochondrial complex I. The effect could be related to the decrease of membrane fluidity measured in the hydrophilic-hydrophobic region of the mitochondrial membrane. This result discarded the involvement of the mitochondrial reactive oxygen species in the nuclear DNA damage. On the contrary, GSH played a crucial role on striatum since it was able to protect the cells against nuclear DNA damage induced by PERM. In conclusion our outcomes suggested that nuclear DNA damage of striatum cells was directly related to GSH depletion due to PERM insecticide.
Rostral agranular insular cortex (RAIC) projects to periaqueductal gray (PAG) and inhibits spinal nociceptive transmission by activating PAG-rostral ventromedial medulla (RVM) descending antinociceptive circuitry. Despite being generated from the same precursor prepronociceptin, nocistatin (NST) and nociceptin/orphanin FQ (N/OFQ) produce supraspinal analgesic and hyperalgesic effects, respectively. Prepronociceptin is highly expressed in the RAIC. In the present study, we hypothesized that NST and N/OFQ modulate spinal pain transmission by regulating the activity of RAIC neurons projecting to ventrolateral PAG (RAIC-PAG). This hypothesis was tested by investigating electrophysiological effects of N/OFQ and NST on RAIC-PAG projection neurons in brain slice. Retrogradely labeled RAIC-PAG projection neurons are layer V pyramidal cells and express mRNA of vesicular glutamate transporter subtype 1, a marker for glutamatergic neurons. N/OFQ hyperpolarized 25% of RAIC-PAG pyramidal neurons by enhancing inwardly rectifying potassium conductance via pertussis toxin-sensitive G(alphai/o). In contrast, NST depolarized 33% of RAIC-PAG glutamatergic neurons by causing the opening of canonical transient receptor potential (TRPC) cation channels through G(alphaq/11)-phospholipase C-protein kinase C pathway. There were two separate populations of RAIC-PAG pyramidal neurons, one responding to NST and the other one to N/OFQ. Our results suggest that G(alphaq/11)-coupled NST receptor mediates NST excitation of RAIC-PAG glutamatergic neurons, which is expected to cause the supraspinal analgesia by enhancing the activity of RAIC-PAG-RVM antinociceptive pathway. Opposite effects of NST and N/OFQ on supraspinal pain regulation are likely to result from their opposing effects on RAIC-PAG pyramidal neurons.
The air-puff startle is an example of a simple behavior in mammals. Following the startle reaction, rats assume a defensive-like, immobile posture (DIP) of approximately 2-5 s in length. The aim of the present study was to examine the effect of bilateral lesions of the nucleus locus coeruleus/subcoeruleus (LC/SC) on the DIP. Using male Sprague-Dawley rats, the DIP period in the air-puff startle was measured with a digital stop watch. The DIP period was defined as the time between the application of the air-puff stimuli and the first motion after the startle reaction. For air-puff stimulation (14.4 psi in strength, 0.1 s in duration), compressed house air was presented as a transient through a vinyl tube suspended 2.5 cm above the rat's head. Two weeks before the experiment, the rats received bilateral injections of 6 microg of the neurotoxin 6-hydroxydopamine to specifically lesion noradrenaline-containing neurons of the LC/SC. In the sham-lesioned rats (n=8), the DIP period did not significantly alter compared with that before operation. In contrast, in the LC/SC-lesioned rats (n=9), the DIP period significantly reduced to 78% of the values before lesions. The results suggest that the LC/SC is involved in the development of the DIP. We speculate that the DIP period is an attentional state and vigilance condition because LC/SC neurons have been implicated in the regulation of the attentional state and vigilance.
There is substantial evidence that prenatal exposure to adverse environmental conditions might lead to the psychiatric disorders that can appear in adolescence or in adulthood; vulnerability to drug addiction may increase as well. It is currently accepted that the alteration of catecholamine transmission in the prefrontal cortex plays a prominent role in the etiology of psychiatric disorders. We assessed basal and stimulated dopamine and noradrenaline extracellular concentration in the medial prefrontal cortex by means of microdialysis in awake male adolescent and young adult offspring of rats exposed to restraint stress in the last week of pregnancy. Catecholamine stimulation was obtained by amphetamine or nicotine. We observed that prenatal stress (PNS) did not change dopamine but decreased noradrenaline basal output in both adolescents and adults. Moreover, it decreased amphetamine stimulated dopamine output and increased amphetamine stimulated noradrenaline output. PNS decreased nicotine stimulated noradrenaline (but not dopamine output) in adults, though not in adolescents. These data show that PNS stress modifies prefrontal cortex catecholamine transmission in a complex and age dependent manner. Our results support the view that prenatal stress may be a contributing factor for the development of psychiatric disorders and that its effect may augment drug addiction vulnerability.
Previous preclinical and clinical studies have demonstrated the efficacy of group II metabotropic glutamate receptor (mGluR) agonists as potential antipsychotics. Recent studies utilizing mGluR2-, mGluR3-, and double knockout mice support that the antipsychotic effects of those compounds are mediated by mGluR2. Indeed, biphenyl indanone-A (BINA), an allosteric potentiator of mGluR2, is effective in experimental models of psychosis, blocking phencyclidine (PCP)-induced hyperlocomotion and prepulse inhibition deficits in mice. In this study, we administered the NMDA receptor antagonist PCP (5.6 mg/kg i.p.) to rats, an established animal model predictive of schizophrenia. Here, we show that BINA (32 mg/kg i.p.) attenuated PCP-induced locomotor activity in rats. Using behaviorally relevant doses of BINA and PCP, we performed pharmacological magnetic resonance imaging (phMRI) to assess the specific brain regions that underlie the psychotomimetic effects of PCP, and examined how BINA modulated the PCP-induced functional changes in vivo. In anesthetized rats, acute administration of PCP produced robust, sustained blood oxygenation level-dependent (BOLD) activation in specific cortical, limbic, thalamic, and striatal regions. Pretreatment with BINA suppressed the amplitude of the BOLD response to PCP in the prefrontal cortex, caudaute-putamen, nucleus accumbens, and mediodorsal thalamus. Our results show key brain structures underlying PCP-induced behaviors in a preclinical model of schizophrenia, and, importantly, its reversal by potentiation of mGluR2 by BINA, revealing specific brain regions functionally involved in its pharmacological action. Finally, our findings bolster the growing body of evidence that mGluR2 is a viable target for the treatment of schizophrenia.
We analyzed the effects of different treadmill running protocols on the functional recovery after chronic constriction injury (CCI) of the sciatic nerve in mice. We found that a treadmill protocol of short-lasting running (1 h/d for 5 days after CCI) reduced the neuropathy-induced mechanical allodynia and normalized the weight bearing and the sciatic static index of the injured hindpaw. At difference, a treadmill protocol of long-lasting running (1 h/d for more than 5 days after CCI) was unfavorable both for allodynia and for functional recovery. Behavioral results were correlated with immunofluorescence assays of microglia and astrocytes activation in L4/L5 lumbar spinal cord sections. We found a differential pattern of activation characterized by: (i) reduced microglia expression, after both short- and long-lasting treadmill running; (ii) reduced astrocytes expression after short-lasting treadmill running; and, (iii) persistence of astrocytes expression after long-lasting treadmill running. Finally, in sections of injured sciatic nerves, we analyzed the expression of Cdc2 and GAP-43 proteins that are both up-regulated during peripheral regenerative processes. Compared to mice subjected to long-lasting treadmill running, mice subjected to short-lasting treadmill running showed an acceleration of the regenerative processes at the injured sciatic nerve. Our data demonstrate that short-lasting treadmill running, by reducing the neuropathic pain symptoms and facilitating the regenerative processes of the injured nerve, have beneficial rehabilitative effects on the functional recovery after peripheral nerve injury.
Dendritic spines contain a family of abundant scaffolding proteins known as Shanks, but little is known about how their distributions might change during synaptic activity. Here, pre-embedding immunogold electron microscopy is used to localize Shanks in synapses from cultured hippocampal neurons. We find that Shanks are preferentially located at postsynaptic densities (PSDs) as well as in a filamentous network near the PSD, extending up to 120 nm from the postsynaptic membrane. Application of sub-type specific antibodies shows that Shank2 is typically concentrated at and near PSDs while Shank1 is, in addition, distributed throughout the spine head. Depolarization with high K+ for 2 min causes transient, reversible translocation of Shanks towards the PSD that is dependent on extracellular Ca2+. The amount of activity-induced redistribution and subsequent recovery is pronounced for Shank1 but less so for Shank2. Thus, Shank1 appears to be a dynamic element within the spine, whose translocation could be involved in activity-induced, transient structural changes, while Shank2 appears to be a more stable element positioned at the interface of the PSD with the spine cytoplasm.
Our previous study showed that perinatal exposure to interleukin-1beta (IL-1beta), an inflammatory cytokine, induces acute injury to developing white matter in the neonatal rat brain, and alpha-phenyl-n-tert-butyl-nitrone (PBN), a free radical scavenger and antioxidant, protects against IL-1beta-induced acute brain injury. The objective of the present study was to further examine whether perinatal exposure to IL-1beta resulted in persistent brain damage and neurological disabilities, and whether PBN offers lasting protection. Intracerebral injection of IL-1beta (1 microg/kg) was performed in postnatal day 5 (P5) Sprague-Dawley rat pups and PBN (100 mg/kg) or saline was administered intraperitoneally 5 min after IL-1beta injection. Perinatal IL-1beta exposure significantly affected neurobehavioral functions in juvenile rats. Although some neurobehavioral deficits such as performance in negative geotaxis, cliff avoidance, beam walking, and locomotion were spontaneously reversible, sustained deficits such as poor performance in the vibrissa-elicited forelimb-placing test, the pole test, the passive avoidance task, and the elevated plus-maze task were still observable at P21. Perinatal IL-1beta exposure resulted in persistent brain damage including enlargement of ventricles, loss of mature oligodendrocytes, impaired myelination as indicated by the decrease in myelin basic protein immunostaining, axonal and dendritic injury, and loss of hippocampal CA1 neurons and tyrosine hydroxylase positive neurons in the substantia nigra and ventral tegmental areas of the rat brain. Treatments with PBN provided lasting protection against the IL-1beta-induced brain injury and improved the associated neurological dysfunctions in juvenile rats, suggesting that prompt treatments for brain injury induced by perinatal infection/inflammation might have important long-term consequences.
The development of drug addiction involves persistent cellular and molecular changes in the CNS. The brain dopamine and glutamate systems play key roles in mediating drug-induced neuroadaptation. Changes in dendritic morphology in medium spiny neurons (MSNs) in the nucleus accumbens (NAc) and caudate putamen (CPu) accompany drug-induced enduring behavioral and molecular changes. We have investigated the potential involvement of dopamine D1 and D2 receptors, the N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor, and the extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK) in dendritic morphological changes induced by repeated cocaine administration. We show that either a genetic mutation or pharmacological blockade of dopamine D1 receptors attenuated cocaine-induced changes in both dendritic branching and spine density of MSNs in the shell of the NAc and CPu. In contrast, antagonism of dopamine D2 receptors had no obvious effect on changes in dendritic branching but had a partial effect on changes in spine density of MSNs in these brain regions following repeated cocaine injections. Pharmacological inhibition of either NMDA receptors or ERK attenuated cocaine-induced changes in both dendritic branching and spine density of MSNs in the shell of the NAc and CPu. These results suggest that dopamine D1 and NMDA receptors and ERK contribute significantly to neuronal morphological changes induced by repeated exposure to cocaine.
Neurons in the lower brainstem that control consummatory behavior are widely distributed in the reticular formation (RF) of the pons and medulla. The intrinsic membrane properties of neurons within this distributed system shape complex excitatory and inhibitory inputs from both orosensory and central structures implicated in homeostatic control to produce coordinated oromotor patterns. The current study explored the intrinsic membrane properties of neurons in the intermediate subdivision of the medullary reticular formation (IRt). Neurons in the IRt receive input from the overlying (gustatory) nucleus of the solitary tract and project to the oromotor nuclei. Recent behavioral pharmacology studies as well as computational modeling suggest that inhibition in the IRt plays an important role in the transition from a taste-initiated oromotor pattern of ingestion to one of rejection. The present study explored the impact of hyperpolarization on membrane properties. In response to depolarization, neurons responded with either a tonic discharge, an irregular/burst pattern or were spike-adaptive. A hyperpolarizing pre-pulse modulated the excitability of most (82%) IRt neurons to subsequent depolarization. Instances of both increased (30%) and decreased (52%) excitability were observed. Currents induced by the hyperpolarization included an outward 4-aminopyridine (4-AP) sensitive K+ current that suppressed excitability and an inward cation current that increased excitability. These currents are also present in other subpopulations of RF neurons that influence the oromotor nuclei and we discuss how these currents could alter firing characteristics to impact pattern generation.
Recent studies of the freshwater planarian Dugesia japonica have revealed fundamental mechanisms and unique aspects of neuroscience and neuroregeneration. Here, we identified the gene for planarian choline acetyltransferase (Djchat), which is essential for acetylcholine (ACh) biosynthesis. Immunofluorescence studies using anti-Dugesia japonica ChAT (DjChAT) antibody revealed that cholinergic neurons are widely distributed in the planarian nervous system, including the brain, ventral nerve cords, optic nerves, and pharyngeal nerve plexus. In order to investigate the function of cholinergic neurons in planarians, we used both pharmacological and RNA interference (RNAi) approaches. Administration of physostigmine (an acetylcholinesterase inhibitor) clearly elevated the amount of ACh, and then induced sudden muscle contraction behavior in a concentration-dependent manner. In addition, we found that pretreatment with tubocurarine (a muscle nicotinic ACh receptor antagonist) or atropine (a non-selective muscarinic ACh receptor antagonist), but not pretreatment with mecamylamine (a neural nicotinic ACh receptor antagonist), significantly extended the latency time for physostigmine-induced contraction behavior, suggesting that muscle nicotinic ACh receptors and muscarinic ACh receptors contribute to physostigmine-induced contraction behavior. We also confirmed that ACh biosynthesis ability and DjChAT-immunoreactivity were eliminated in Djchat(RNAi) planarians. Moreover, the decrease of the level of ACh induced by Djchat(RNAi) caused extension of the latency time for contraction behavior. Our findings support the possibility that the cholinergic functions of planarians are similar to those of vertebrates, suggesting that planarians are simple but useful model organisms for getting insight into the cholinergic nervous system in higher animals.
Synaptic plasticity plays a crucial role in learning, memory, and cognitive disorders. Cytoskeletal reorganization underlies neuronal synaptic plasticity, but little is known about the regulation of cytoskeletal dynamics in living animals. We used stable isotope labeling to measure the turnover of tubulin in defined microtubule (MT) populations in murine brain. Neuronal MTs generally exhibited low turnover rates in vivo. Basal turnover was highest in tau-associated MTs, intermediate in microtubule-associated protein 2 (MAP2)-associated MTs, and lowest in cold-stable MTs. Labeling of MTs in mature neurons in cell culture yielded similar turnover results. Intracerebroventricular glutamate injection stimulated, via N-methyl-D-aspartic acid receptors, label incorporation (turnover) in cold-stable, tau-associated, and MAP2-associated MTs, the last of which was shown to be dependent on cyclic adenosine-3', 5'-monophosphorothioate-protein kinase A. Contextual fear conditioning, a hippocampus-mediated form of memory formation, was accompanied by increased turnover of hippocampal MAP2-associated and cold-stable MTs. Treatment with the MT-depolymerizing drug nocodazole reversed the conditioning-induced increase in label incorporation in MAP2-associated MTs, reduced dendritic spine density, and impaired memory formation. The effects of nocodazole on MT turnover were prevented by the MT-stabilizing agent Taxol (Sigma-Aldrich, St. Louis, MO, USA) and by brain-derived nerve growth factor, both of which also restored dendritic spine density and memory formation in this model. In conclusion, these results suggest that changes in hippocampal MT turnover are required for, and are a biomarker of, the synaptic plasticity that is involved in memory formation.
In the context of probabilistic learning, previous functional magnetic resonance imaging studies have shown decreasing uncertainty accompanying decreasing neuronal activation in task-relevant networks. Moreover, initial evidence points to a relationship between white matter structure and cognitive performance. Little is known, however, about the structural correlates underlying individual differences in activation and performance in the context of probabilistic learning. This combined functional magnetic resonance imaging-diffusion tensor imaging study aimed at investigating the individual ability to reduce processing resources with decreasing uncertainty in direct relation to individual characteristics in white matter brain structure. Results showed that more successful learners, as compared with less successful learners, exhibited stronger activation decreases with decreasing uncertainty. An increased mean and axial diffusivity in, among others, the inferior and superior longitudinal fasciculus, the posterior part of the cingulum bundle, and the corpus callosum were detectable in less successful learners compared with more successful learners. Most importantly, there was a negative correlation between uncertainty-related activation and diffusivity in a fronto-parieto-striatal network in less successful learners only, indicating a direct relation between diffusivity and the ability to reduce processing resources with decreasing uncertainty. These findings indicate that interindividual variations in white matter characteristics within the normal population might be linked to neuronal activation and critically influence individual learning performance.
The pre-Btzinger complex (pre-BtC), a functionally defined subregion in the ventrolateral medulla oblongata, is a presumed kernel of normal respiratory rhythmogenesis. However, less is known about the pre-BtC's contribution to respiratory neuroplasticity. The most frequently studied model for respiratory neuroplasticity is episodic hypoxia-induced phrenic long-term facilitation, which is 5-HT(2A) receptors (5-HT(2A)R)-dependent. We hypothesized that preconditioning with chronic intermittent hypoxic (CIH) would activate the 5-HT/5-HT(2A)R system and the downstream protein kinase C (PKC) pathway in the pre-BtC. Animals were exposed to alternating 5 min of hypobaric hypoxia and 5 min of normoxia for 10 h/day for 7 days. Hypobaric hypoxia was achieved by continuous air evacuation to reach a pressure of 210-220 mm Hg, corresponding to an altitude of 9000-10000 m. In contrast to the CIH model, a group of animals were pretreated with chronic sustaining hypoxia (CSH), a protocol of continuous hypobaric hypoxia at 360 mm Hg, corresponding to an altitude of about 6000 m, for 10 h/day for 7 days. Immunoreactivity of 5-HT and 5-HT(2A)R was examined in the pre-BtC, identified by the presence of neurokinin-1 receptor (NK1R). We found that 15.5% of 5-HT-immunoreactive (ir) terminals were in contact with NK1R-ir neurons. Asymmetric synapses could be identified between them. 38.7% of NK1R-ir dendrites were also immunoreactive for 5-HT(2A)R, which was distributed along the inner surface of the plasma membrane in control animals. CIH challenge increased the expressions of 5-HT and 5-HT(2A)R in the pre-BtC, an increase in the expressed 5-HT(2A)R that was not detected in this region in CSH animals. Specifically, 5-HT(2A)R was distributed not only along the inner surface, but also along the outer surface, or directly on the plasma membrane, a pattern not detectable in control animals. 5-HT(2A)R was also detectable in the invaginations of the plasma membrane, where receptor endocytosis or exocytosis might occur, indicating CIH-induced higher trafficking of 5-HT(2A)R. Concurrently, there was an up-regulation of phospho-PKC theta (P-PKCtheta) in the pre-BtC, suggesting a 5-HT/5-HT(2A)R-activated PKC mechanism that may contribute to hypoxia-induced respiratory neuroplasticity in the pre-BtC. The close association of P-PKCtheta with the postsynaptic density implicates a postsynaptic mechanism mediating respiratory neuroplasticity in the pre-BtC.
Given the robust influence of diet and exercise on brain plasticity and disease, we conducted studies to determine their effects on molecular systems important for control of brain homeostasis. Studies were centered on a battery of proteins implicated in metabolic homeostasis that have the potential to modulate brain plasticity and cognitive function, in rat hypothalamus and hippocampus. Adult male rats were exposed to a docosahexaenoic acid (DHA) enriched diet (1.25% DHA) with or without voluntary exercise for 14 days. Here we report that the DHA diet and exercise influence protein levels of molecular systems important for the control of energy metabolism (primarily phospho-AMPK, silent information regulator type 1), food intake (primarily leptin and ghrelin receptors), stress (primarily glucocorticoid receptors), and 11beta-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase 1 (11betaHSD1). Exercise or DHA dietary supplementation had differential effects on several of these class proteins, and the concurrent application of both altered the pattern of response elicited by the single applications of diet or exercise. For example, exercise elevated levels of glucocorticoids receptors in the hypothalamus and the DHA diet had opposite effects, while the concurrent application of diet and exercise suppressed the single effects of diet or exercise. In most of the cases, the hypothalamus and the hippocampus had a distinctive pattern of response to the diet or exercise. The results harmonize with the concept that exercise and dietary DHA exert specific actions on the hypothalamus and hippocampus, with implications for the regulations of brain plasticity and cognitive function.
We examined the effects of stimulus size and location on the mouse optokinetic response (OKR). To this end, we recorded initial OKRs elicited by a brief presentation of horizontally moving grating patterns of different vertical widths and locations in the visual field. Large-field stimuli generated large sustained OKRs, whereas visual stimuli of narrower vertical widths elicited weaker sustained responses at the later period (400-500 ms after the onset of stimulus motion). However, even stimuli of only 5 degrees vertical width elicited detectable transient responses at the initial open-loop period (100-200 ms after the onset of stimulus motion). Presenting 5 degrees -width stimuli at different vertical locations (-10 degrees to +35 degrees relative to the horizon) revealed the spatial distribution of optokinetic sensitivity across the retina. The most sensitive part of the visual field was located at +25 degrees . In addition, we examined the vertical orientation of the eye under our stereotaxic set-up. We observed the optic disc using a hand-held fundus camera and determined the ocular orientation. All eye orientations were distributed in the range of +20-30 degrees relative to the horizon (25.2+/-2.5 degrees ). Thus, the direction of the most sensitive visual field matched the angle of eye orientation. These findings indicate that the spatial distribution of visual field sensitivity to optokinetic stimuli coincides with the distribution of retinal ganglion cell density.
As one major line of research on brain plasticity, many imaging studies have been conducted to identify the functional and structural reorganization associated with musical expertise. Based on previous behavioral research, the present study used functional magnetic resonance imaging to identify the neural correlates of superior verbal memory performance in musicians. Participants with and without musical training performed a verbal memory task to first encode a list of words auditorily delivered and then silently recall as many words as possible. They performed in separate blocks a control task involving pure tone pitch judgment. Post-scan recognition test showed better memory performance in musicians than non-musicians. During memory retrieval, the musicians showed significantly greater activations in bilateral though left-lateralized visual cortex relative to the pitch judgment baseline. In comparison, no such visual cortical activations were found in the non-musicians. No group differences were observed during the encoding stage. The results echo a previous report of visual cortical activation during verbal memory retrieval in the absence of any visual sensory stimulation in the blind population, who are also known to possess superior verbal memory. It is suggested that the visual cortex can be recruited to serve as extra memory resources and contributes to the superior verbal memory in special situations. While in the blind population, such cross-modal functional reorganization may be induced by sensory deprivation; in the musicians it may be induced by the long-term and demanding nature of musical training to use as much available neural resources as possible.
Much of the cognitive decline shown by aging primates can be attributed to dysfunction of prefrontal cortex and, as shown previously, about 30% of asymmetric (excitatory) and symmetric (inhibitory) axodendritic synapses are lost from the neuropil of layer 2/3 in prefrontal area 46 with age [Peters A, Sethares C, Luebke JI (2008) Neuroscience 152:970-981]. Whether there is a similar loss of inhibitory axosomatic synapses from this cortex has not been determined, but a study in primate motor cortex suggests that axosomatic synapses are not lost with age [Tigges J, Herndon JG, Peters A (1992) Anat Rec 232:305-315]. The present study is focused upon whether the remaining axon terminals forming inhibitory synapses in old monkeys hypertrophy to compensate for any age-related loss. Analysis of electron micrographs show that in layer 2/3 of area 46 in both young and old monkeys, axon terminals forming axosomatic synapses are significantly larger and contain more mitochondria than those forming axodendritic synapses and both axodendritic and axosomatic terminals become larger with age. However, while mitochondria in axodendritic terminals do not change in either size or amount with age, the mitochondria in axosomatic terminals become larger. Similarly, in terminals forming axodendritic synapses, the mean numbers of synaptic vesicle profiles is the same in young and old monkeys, whereas in terminals forming axosomatic synapses there is an increase in the numbers of synaptic vesicles with age. We also show that among these age-related changes, only the numbers of synaptic vesicles in axosomatic synapses are significantly correlated with the cognitive impairment indices displayed by the same monkeys. In summary, the data provide original evidence that axosomatic axon terminals increase in size and in their content of mitochondria and synaptic vesicles. Furthermore, based on our and previously published results, we speculate that these changes are linked to age-related cognitive decline.
Many neurons tend to fire clusters of action potentials called bursts followed by quiescence in response to sensory input. While the mechanisms that underlie burst firing are generally well understood in vitro, the functional role of these bursts in generating behavioral responses to sensory input in vivo are less clear. Pyramidal cells within the electrosensory lateral line lobe (ELL) of weakly electric fish offer an attractive model system for studying the coding properties of burst firing, because the anatomy and physiology of the electrosensory circuitry are well understood, and the burst mechanism of ELL pyramidal cells has been thoroughly characterized in vitro. We investigated the coding properties of bursts generated by these cells in vivo in response to mimics of behaviorally relevant sensory input. We found that heterogeneities within the pyramidal cell population had quantitative but not qualitative effects on burst coding for the low frequency components of broadband time varying input. Moreover, spatially localized stimuli mimicking, for example, prey tended to elicit more bursts than spatially global stimuli mimicking conspecific-related stimuli. We also found small but significant correlations between burst attributes such as the number of spikes per burst or the interspike interval during the burst and stimulus attributes such as stimulus amplitude or slope. These correlations were much weaker in magnitude than those observed in vitro. More surprisingly, our results show that correlations between burst and stimulus attributes actually decreased in magnitude when we used low frequency stimuli that are expected to promote burst firing. We propose that this discrepancy is attributable to differences between ELL pyramidal cell burst firing under in vivo and in vitro conditions.
3,4-methylenedioxymethamphetamine (MDMA) causes long-term serotonin depletion and reduced serotonin transporter (SERT) function in humans and in animal models. Using quantitative Western blotting and real-time PCR, we have shown that total SERT protein in the striatum and nucleus accumbens and mRNA levels in the dorsal raphe nucleus were not significantly changed following MDMA exposure in rats (4 x 2 h i.p. injections, 10 mg/kg each). In mouse neuroblastoma (N(2)A) cells transiently expressing green fluorescent protein-tagged human SERT (GFP-hSERT), we have shown redistribution of SERT from the cell surface to intracellular vesicles on exposure to MDMA using cell surface biotinylation, total internal reflection fluorescence microscopy (TIRFM) and live-cell confocal microscopy. To investigate the mechanism responsible for SERT redistribution, we used specific antibodies to phospho-p38-mitogen activated protein kinase (p38 MAPK), a known signalling pathway involved in SERT membrane expression. We found that p38 MAPK activation was not involved in the MDMA-induced redistribution of SERT from the cell-surface to the cell interior. A loss of SERT from the cell surface on acute exposure to MDMA may contribute to the decreased SERT function seen in rats exposed to MDMA.
Aspirin, whose active ingredient is sodium salicylate, is the most widely used drug worldwide, but it is not recommended for children because it may cause Reye's syndrome. High doses of salicylate also induce temporary hearing loss and tinnitus; while these disorders are believed to disappear when treatment is discontinued some data suggest that prolonged treatment may be neurotoxic. To investigate its ototoxicity, immature, postnatal day 3 rat cochlear organotypic cultures were treated with salicylate. Salicylate did not damage the sensory hair cells, but instead damaged the spiral ganglion neurons (SGN) and their peripheral fibers in a dose-dependent manner. The cross-sectional area of SGN decreased from 205 microm(2) in controls to 143, 116, and 91 microm(2) in cultures treated with 1, 3, or 5 mM salicylate, respectively. Morphological changes and caspase upregulation were indicative of caspase-mediated apoptosis. A quantitative RT-PCR apoptosis array identified a subset of genes up- or down regulated by salicylate. Eight genes showed a biologically relevant change (P&lt;0.05, &gt; or =2 fold change) after 3 h treatment with salicylate; seven genes (Tp53, Birc3, Tnfrsf5, Casp7, Nfkb1, Fas, Lta, Tnfsf10) were upregulated and one gene (Pycard) was downregulated. After 6 h treatment, only one gene (Nol3) was upregulated and two genes were downregulated (Cideb and Lhx4) while after 12 h treatment, two genes (Il10, Gadd45a) were upregulated and 4 (Prok2, Card10, Ltbr, Dapk1) were downregulated. High doses of salicylate in a physiologically relevant range can induce caspase-mediated cell death in immature SGN; changes in the expression of apoptotic genes particularly among members of the tumor necrosis factor (TNF) family appear to play an important role in the degeneration.
Acute and chronic exposure to psychostimulants results in altered function of G-protein-coupled receptors in the forebrain. It is believed that neuroadaptations in G-protein signaling contribute to behavioral sensitivity to psychostimulants that persists over a prolonged drug-free period. Proteins termed activators of G-protein signaling (AGS) have been characterized as potent modulators of both receptor-dependent and receptor-independent G-protein signaling. Nevertheless, the regulation of AGS gene and protein expression by psychostimulants remains poorly understood. In the present study, we investigated amphetamine (AMPH)-induced changes in expression patterns of several forebrain-enriched AGS proteins. A single exposure to AMPH (2.5 mg/kg i.p.) selectively induced gene expression of AGS1, but not Rhes or AGS3 proteins, in the rat prefrontal cortex (PFC) as measured 3 h later. Induction of AGS1 mRNA in the PFC by acute AMPH was transient and dose-dependent. Even repeated treatment with AMPH for 5 days did not produce lasting changes in AGS1 mRNA and protein levels in the PFC as measured 3 weeks post treatment. However, at this time point, a low dose AMPH challenge (1 mg/kg i.p.) induced a robust behavioral response and upregulated AGS1 expression in the PFC selectively in animals with an AMPH history. The effects of AMPH on AGS1 expression in the PFC were blocked by a D2, but not D1, dopamine receptor antagonist and partially by a glucocorticoid receptor antagonist. Collectively, the present study suggests that (1) AGS1 represents a regulator of G-protein signaling that is rapidly inducible by AMPH in the frontal cortex, (2) AGS1 regulation in the PFC parallels behavioral activation by acute AMPH in drug-naive animals and hypersensitivity to AMPH challenge in sensitized animals, and (3) D2 dopamine and glucocorticoid receptors regulate AMPH effects on AGS1 in the PFC. Changes in AGS1 levels in the PFC may result in abnormal receptor-to-G-protein coupling that alters cortical sensitivity to psychostimulants.
General anesthetics have long been thought to be relatively safe but recent clinical studies have revealed that exposure of very young children (4 years or less) to agents that act by blocking the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor (NMDAR) can lead to cognitive deficits as they mature. In rodent and non-human primate studies, blockade of this receptor during the perinatal period leads to a number of molecular, cellular and behavioral pathologies. Despite the overwhelming evidence from such studies, doubt remains as to their clinical relevance. A key issue is whether the primary injury (apoptotic cell death) is specific to receptor blockade or due to non-specific, patho-physiological changes. Principal to this argument is that loss of core body temperature following NMDAR blockade could explain why injury is observed hours later. We therefore examined the neurotoxicity of the general anesthetic ketamine in P7, P14 and P21 rats while monitoring core body temperature. We found that, at P7, ketamine induced the pro-apoptotic enzyme activated caspase-3 in a dose-dependent manner. As expected, injury was greatly diminished by P14 and absent by P21. However, contrary to expectations, we found that core body temperature was not a factor in determining injury. Our data imply that injury is directly related to receptor blockade and is unlikely to be overcome by artificially changing core body temperature.
Shc(s) family of adaptor molecules has been implicated in several physiological functions. In particular, our previous studies have shown major roles in the mechanisms that control the transition from proliferating neural stem cells (NSCs) to postmitotic neurons in the mammalian brain. In the adult brain, ShcA expression is mainly restricted to a subpopulation of cells in the subventricular zone (SVZ) neurogenic area, enlightening a potential role for this molecule in the establishment/maintenance of this adult NSC niche. In order to investigate this matter, here we took advantage of Cre/lox technology with the purpose of interfering with (or delete) ShcA function in nestin-expressing neural progenitors in vivo. Our analyses revealed signs of anatomical disorganization in the adult brain at the boundary between the striatum and the corpus callosum and reduced thickness both at the ventricular level and through the rostral migratory stream. Analysis of cell proliferation and cell death unveiled a prominent reduction of the former and no substantial alterations of the latter. Ultrastructural studies showed SVZ anatomical disarray and manifest variation in the SVZ cell type composition. In conclusion, these results provide evidence for a role of ShcA in the assembly and/or maintenance of the SVZ NSC niche in the adult brain.
Neurosteroids that can enhance GABA(A) receptor sensitivity protect cerebellar Purkinje cells against transient episodes of global brain ischemia, but little is known about how ischemia affects GABAergic transmission onto Purkinje cells. Here we use patch-clamp recording from Purkinje cells in acutely prepared slices of rat cerebellum to determine how ischemia affects GABAergic signaling to Purkinje cells. In voltage-clamped Purkinje cells, exposing slices to solutions designed to simulate brain ischemia caused an early, partial suppression of the frequency of spontaneous inhibitory post synaptic currents (sIPSCs), but after 5-8 min GABA accumulated in the extracellular space around Purkinje cells, generating a large (approximately 17 nS), sustained GABA(A) receptor-mediated conductance. The sustained GABA(A) conductance occurred in parallel with an even larger (approximately 117 nS) glutamate receptor-mediated conductance, but blocking GABA(A) receptors did not affect the timing or magnitude of the glutamate conductance, and blocking glutamate receptors did not affect the timing or magnitude of the GABA(A) conductance. Despite the lack of interaction between GABA and glutamate, blocking GABA(A) receptors significantly accelerated the onset of the Purkinje cell &quot;ischemic&quot; depolarization (ID), as assessed with current-clamp recordings from Purkinje cells or field potential recordings in the dendritic field of the Purkinje cells. The Purkinje cell ID occurred approximately 2 min prior to the sustained glutamate release under control conditions and a further 1-2 min earlier when GABA(A) receptors were blocked. Tissue swelling, as assessed by monitoring light transmittance through the slice, peaked just after the ID, prior to the sustained glutamate release, but was not affected by blocking GABA(A) receptors. These data indicate that ischemia induces the Purkinje cell ID and tissue swelling prior to the sustained glutamate release, and that blocking GABA(A) receptors accelerates the onset of the ID without affecting tissue swelling. Taken together these data may explain why Purkinje cells are one of the most ischemia sensitive neurons in the brain despite lacking NMDA receptors, and why neurosteroids that enhance GABA(A) receptor function protect Purkinje cells against transient episodes of global brain ischemia.
CbNa(v) and CbIH encode channels that carry voltage-gated sodium and hyperpolarization activated cation currents respectively in the crab, Cancer borealis. We cloned and sequenced full length cDNAs for both CbNa(v) and CbIH and found nine different regions of alternative splicing for the CbNa(v) gene and four regions of alternative splicing for CbIH. We used RT-PCR to determine tissue-specific differences in splicing of both channel genes among cardiac muscle, skeletal muscle, brain, and stomatogastric ganglion (STG) tissue. We then examined the splice variant isoforms present in single, unambiguously identified neurons of the STG. We found cell-type specific patterns of alternative splicing for CbNa(v), indicating unique cell-specific pattern of post-transcriptional modification. Furthermore, we detected possible differences in cellular localization of alternatively spliced CbNa(v) transcripts; distinct mRNA isoforms are present between the cell somata and the axons of the neurons. In contrast, we found no qualitative differences among different cell types for CbIH variants present, although this analysis did not represent the full spectrum of all possible CbIH variants. CbIH mRNA was not detected in axon samples. Finally, although cell-type specific patterns of splicing were detected for CbNa(v), the same cell type within and between animals also displayed variability in which splice forms were detected. These results indicate that channel splicing is differentially regulated at the level of single neurons of the same neural network, providing yet another mechanism by which cell-specific neuronal output can be achieved.
The monogamous social behaviors of prairie voles (Microtus ochrogaster) require olfactory inputs, which are processed by the posterodorsal medial amygdala (MeApd) and principal bed nucleus of the stria terminalis (pBST). The male prairie vole MeApd and pBST contain hundreds of cells densely immunoreactive for tyrosine hydroxylase (TH-ir). Female prairie voles have relatively few of these cells, but we previously found that the number of these TH-ir cells is greatly increased in females by exogenous estradiol. We here hypothesized that the number of TH-ir cells in their MeApd and pBST would also increase during the natural hormone surges associated with females' induced estrus. We found that the number of TH-ir cells in both sites did significantly increase after females cohabitated for two days with an unfamiliar male. However, this increase did not require the presence of ovaries and even tended to occur in the pBST of females cohabitating for two days with unfamiliar females. We then determined if the greater number of TH-ir cells after heterosexual pairing was transient by examining two groups of long-term pairbonded females (primiparous and multiparous), and found these females also had significantly more TH-ir cells in the pBST and/or MeApd compared to unmated controls. Thus, social novelty arising from cohabitation with unfamiliar conspecifics produces a reoccurring increase in the number of TH-ir cells in the female prairie vole extended olfactory amygdala. Ovarian hormones are not necessarily required. This increase in catecholaminergic cells may facilitate acquisition and retention of olfactory memories necessary for social recognition in this species.
There is increasing evidence that exposure to high magnetic fields of 4T and above perturbs the vestibular system of rodents and humans. Performance in a swim test is a sensitive test of vestibular function. In order to determine the effect of magnet field exposure on swimming in mice, mice were exposed for 30 min within a 14.1T superconducting magnet and then tested at different times after exposure in a 2-min swim test. As previously observed in open field tests, mice swam in tight counter-clockwise circles when tested immediately after magnet exposure. The counter-clockwise orientation persisted throughout the 2-min swim test. The tendency to circle was transient, because no significant circling was observed when mice were tested at 3 min or later after magnet exposure. However, mice did show a decrease in total distance swum when tested between 3 and 40 min after magnet exposure. The decrease in swimming distance was accompanied by a pronounced postural change involving a counter-clockwise twist of the pelvis and hindlimbs that was particularly severe in the first 15s of the swim test. Finally, no persistent difference from sham-exposed mice was seen in the swimming of magnet-exposed mice when tested 60 min, 24h, or 96 h after magnet exposure. This suggests that there is no long-lasting effect of magnet exposure on the ability of mice to orient or swim. The transient deficits in swimming and posture seen shortly after magnet exposure are consistent with an acute perturbation of the vestibular system by the high magnetic field.


A series of 5-arylamino-1,2,4-triazin-6(1H)-ones was synthesized and evaluated as antagonists at the corticotropin releasing factor receptor. Formation of CYP-mediated oxidative reactive metabolites previously observed in a related N(3)-phenylpyrazinone structure was minimized by incorporation of the additional ring nitrogen found in the triazinones.
Biaryl substituted 2,5-diazabicyclo[2.2.1]heptanes have been synthesized and tested for their affinity toward alpha7 neuronal nicotinic receptors (NNRs). SAR studies established that 5-N-methyl substituent, heteroaryl linker and the nature of terminal aryl group are critical for the ligand to achieve potent alpha7 NNR agonist activity.

Neurons innervate multiple targets by sprouting axon branches from a primary axon shaft. We show here that the ventral guidance factor unc-6 (Netrin), its receptor unc-40 (DCC), and the gene madd-2 stimulate ventral axon branching in C. elegans chemosensory and mechanosensory neurons. madd-2 also promotes attractive axon guidance to UNC-6 and assists unc-6- and unc-40-dependent ventral recruitment of the actin regulator MIG-10 in nascent axons. MADD-2 is a tripartite motif protein related to MID-1, the causative gene for the human developmental disorder Opitz syndrome. MADD-2 and UNC-40 proteins preferentially localize to a ventral axon branch that requires their function; genetic results indicate that MADD-2 potentiates UNC-40 activity. Our results identify MADD-2 as an UNC-40 cofactor in axon attraction and branching, paralleling the role of UNC-5 in repulsion, and provide evidence that targeting of a guidance factor to specific axonal branches can confer differential responsiveness to guidance cues.
Almost 20 years ago, the gene underlying fatal familial insomnia was discovered, and first suggested the concept that a single gene can regulate sleep. In the two decades since, there have been many advances in the field of behavioral genetics, but it is only in the past 10 years that the genetic analysis of sleep has emerged as an important discipline. Major findings include the discovery of a single gene underlying the sleep disorder narcolepsy, and identification of loci that make quantitative contributions to sleep characteristics. The sleep field has also expanded its focus from mammalian model organisms to Drosophila, zebrafish, and worms, which is allowing the application of novel genetic approaches. Researchers have undertaken large-scale screens to identify new genes that regulate sleep, and are also probing questions of sleep circuitry and sleep function on a molecular level. As genetic tools continue to be refined in each model organism, the genes that support a specific function in sleep will become more apparent. Thus, while our understanding of sleep still remains rudimentary, rapid progress is expected from these recently initiated studies.
Machado-Joseph disease or spinocerebellar ataxia type 3 (MJD/SCA3) is a fatal, autosomal dominant disorder caused by a cytosine-adenine-guanine expansion in the coding region of the MJD1 gene. RNA interference has potential as a therapeutic approach but raises the issue of the role of wild-type ataxin-3 (WT ATX3) in MJD and of whether the expression of the wild-type protein must be maintained. To address this issue, we both overexpressed and silenced WT ATX3 in a rat model of MJD. We showed that (i) overexpression of WT ATX3 did not protect against MJD pathology, (ii) knockdown of WT ATX3 did not aggravate MJD pathology and that (iii) non-allele-specific silencing of ataxin-3 strongly reduced neuropathology in a rat model of MJD. Our findings indicate that therapeutic strategies involving non-allele-specific silencing to treat MJD patients may be safe and effective.

Spinal cholinergic neurons are critical for motor function in both the autonomic and somatic nervous systems and are affected in spinal cord injury and in diseases such as amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) and spinal muscular atrophy. Using two screening approaches and in situ hybridization, we identified 159 genes expressed in typical cholinergic patterns in the spinal cord. These include two general cholinergic neuron markers, one gene exclusively expressed in motor neurons, and nine genes expressed in unknown subtypes of somatic motor neurons. Further, we present evidence that chondrolectin (Chodl) is expressed by fast motor neurons and that estrogen-related receptor beta (ERRbeta) is a candidate marker for slow motor neurons. In addition, we suggest paired-like homeodomain transcription factor 2 (Pitx2) as a marker for cholinergic partition cells.
The development of intrinsic gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA)-ergic neurons was studied in the first month of postnatal life in the rat periaqueductal gray matter (PAG) by light and electron microscopy using an anti-GABA serum. At birth (postnatal day 0: P0) GABA-immunopositive (GABA(IP)) neurons were detected only on the outer edge of dorsolateral PAG (PAG-DL) and were rare in the other PAG subdivisions. Their distribution did not change from P0 to P5, while they increased progressively from P5 to P10 in PAG-DL and began to be detected in ventrolateral PAG (PAG-VL). At the end of the second postnatal week the immunostaining pattern was nearly adult-like, and between P20 and P30 the adult pattern of GABA immunoreactivity was established. Quantitative light microscopic examination indicated that in the first postnatal month the cross-sectional area of GABA(IP) neurons gradually increased from 67.63 and 78.69 microm(2) at P0 to 122.15 and 119.16 microm(2) at P30 in PAG-DL and PAG-VL, respectively. Electron microscopic observations disclosed GABA labeling from P0 in cell bodies, dendrites, growth cones, and axon terminals. GABA(IP) terminals were few in neonatal rats and became more numerous and morphologically mature around the second week. Synapse development and maturation were examined by quantitative ultrastructural analysis. Synaptic vesicle number and size of GABA(IP) axon terminals progressively grew in the first postnatal month. In conclusion, the number and size of GABA(IP) cells progressively increase in postnatal PAG, with two populations of intrinsic neurons expressing their GABAergic nature in two different periods.
Phox2a is a transcription factor that plays an essential role, with Phox2b, in the specification of the adrenergic and noradrenergic phenotype in developing brain. Localization of Phox2a in developing brainstem has demonstrated a high degree of correspondence between neurons expressing the transcription factor and those involved in the regulation of autonomic function. Although it is well established that the paralogous gene product Phox2b is widely expressed in adult brain, no study has mapped the distribution of Phox2a in the adult. The data reported here address that void. A well-characterized rabbit polyclonal antiserum was used for immunohistochemical localization of the transcription factor in adult rats. Sections through the rostrocaudal extent of brain were processed for dual immunocytochemical localization of Phox2a and catecholamine enzymes. Adjacent sections were used for dual localization of Phox2a and NADPH diaphorase, a marker of nitric oxide-containing neurons. The data demonstrate that Phox2a is present in all brainstem catecholamine neurons, in circumscribed populations of NADPH(+) neurons, and in a subset of neurons that influences sympathetic and parasympathetic outflow. In addition, Phox2a(+) neurons were observed within diencephalic and brainstem nuclei that regulate behavioral state. Considered with data demonstrating that Phox2a is part of the transcriptional complex that drives expression of dopamine-beta-hydroxylase and can also up-regulate expression of other genes, the data support the conclusion that Phox2a plays an important role in brainstem catecholamine neurotransmission and in the regulation of adaptive homeostatic functions in the adult nervous system.
Amphetamines have been used as cognitive enhancers to promote learning and memory. Amphetamines are also drugs of abuse that may promote the initiation of strong memories that ultimately lead to addiction. To understand how methamphetamine (Meth) may be augmenting learning and memory, we chose a relatively simple system, the pond snail, Lymnaea stagnalis. We studied the effects of Meth exposure on the long-term memory (LTM), extinction and reinstatement of operantly conditioned aerial respiratory behavior in Lymnaea. We first determined doses of Meth that would acutely alter respiratory behavior. Next, we measured the impact of training snails in Meth solution or water (control group) using a training procedure that produces LTM (&gt;6 h) in control conditions. Meth exposure impaired the expression of LTM 21 h after two training sessions, but this appeared to be a context-dependent effect only. However, snails exposed to 3.3 mumol l(-1) Meth during training had a decreased rate of extinction of the operantly conditioned memory. We then tested whether this decreased ability of snails to extinguish memory was due to enhanced LTM or impaired extinction of that memory. Snails were operantly conditioned in water and exposed to Meth 16 h after their last trial but 4-5 h prior to extinction. Meth produced an increase rather than a decrease in extinction rate. Thus, Meth impaired extinction only when snails were exposed to Meth during training. Last, we tested the effect of Meth on the ability to form LTM using a single training procedure that is suboptimal for LTM formation. Control snails did not demonstrate LTM, as expected, but pre-exposure of snails to 3.3 micromol l(-1) Meth 24 h prior to the single training session produced LTM 24 h later, indicating that Meth pre-exposure primed snails for LTM formation. Taken together, our studies suggest that LTM is strengthened by Meth such that extinction training is less effective. Lymnaea provides a simple and useful model system to dissect the cellular and/or molecular mechanisms of how Meth may initiate the formation of stronger memories.
Stable engraftment of human lymphoid tissue in NOD/scid-IL-2Rgammacnull mice after CD34+ hematopoietic stem cell reconstitution permits the evaluation of ongoing HIV-1 infection for weeks to months. We demonstrate that HIV-1-infected rodents develop virus-specific cellular immune responses. CD8+ cell depletion, 2 or 5-7 wk after viral infection, resulted in a significant increase of HIV-1 load, robust immune cell activation, and cytopathology in lymphoid tissues but preserved CD4/CD8 double-positive thymic T cell pools. Human CD8+ cells reappeared in circulation as early as 2-3 wk. These data support a role of CD8+ cells in viral surveillance and the relevance of this humanized mouse model for the studies of HIV-1 pathobiology and virus-specific immunity.
The peritoneal cavity is recognized as an important site for autoreactive B cells prior to their transit to other immune tissues; however, little is known of the genes that may regulate this process. Mice lacking the receptor tyrosine kinase, Mertk, display a lupus-like autoimmune phenotype with splenomegaly and high autoantibodies titers. In this study, we investigate whether Mertk regulates the composition of peritoneal cells that favor an autoimmune phenotype. We found an increase in the number of macrophages, dendritic cells (DCs), plasmacytoid DCs, T cells, and B cells in the peritoneal cavity of mertk-/- mice when compared with wild-type mice. This disparity in cell numbers was not due to changes in cell proliferation or cell death. In adoptive transfer experiments, we showed an increase in migration of labeled donor cells into the mertk-/- peritoneal cavity. In addition, bone marrow chimeric mice showed hematopoietic-derived factors were also critical for T cell migration. Consistent with this migration and the increase in the number of cells, we identified elevated expression of CXCL9, its receptor CXCR3, and IL-7R on peritoneal cells from mertk-/- mice. To corroborate the migratory function of CXCR3 on cells, the depletion of CXCR3 donor cells significantly reduced the number of adoptively transferred cells that entered into the peritoneum of mertk-/- mice. This control of peritoneal cells numbers correlated with autoantibody production and was exclusively attributed to Mertk because mice lacking other family members, Axl or Tyro 3, did not display dysregulation in peritoneal cell numbers or the autoimmune phenotype.
Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis (ALS) is a neurodegenerative disease associated with a positive familial history in 5-10% of ALS cases. Mutations in the superoxide dismutase-1 (SOD1) gene have been found in 12%-23% of patients diagnosed with familial ALS. Here we report a novel mutation in exon 4 of SOD1 gene in a 55-year-old ALS patient belonging to a large Italian family with ALS first clinically described in 1968. In the family the clinical presentation was characterized by relatively early age of onset, spinal onset with proximal distribution weakness, bulbar involvement and a rapid disease course. Molecular analysis showed a heterozygous mutation at codon 106 resulting in a substitution of phenylalanine for leucine in the SOD1 protein (L106F). In analogy with the previously reported L106V mutation, we propose that the L106F causes a relevant destabilization of the protein chain around the mutation site, able to affect the SOD1 monomer and dimer structures suggesting a pathogenic role for this novel mutation.

Human orienting behaviour requires a complex interaction between the visual and the oculomotor system. We present orienting gaze data measured in children using a remote eye tracking system. The aim of the study was to validate a data analysis method which did not require off-line correction of data gaps due to eye blinking or inadequate gaze tracking. In two sessions, blocks of short movies, amongst others cartoons, were shown to 35 children (2-9 years) for a test-retest analysis. The cartoons were subsequently shown in one of the monitor corners. Orienting eye movements were analysed on the basis of saccadic reaction time (SRT), reaction time to fixation (RTF) of cartoon and gaze fixation area (GFA) Differences were tested for significance using the Wilcoxon-signed ranks test and reliability was assessed using the intraclass correlation coefficient (ICC). SRT values could be calculated in approximately 50% of gaze data and ranged between 150(30)ms (mean(SD)) and 390(190)ms (average SRT(min) and SRT(max) values of all subjects). RTF values could be derived in approximately 90% of gaze data with an average RTF(min) of 210(30)ms and RTF(max) of 570(160)ms. Test-retest analysis showed a significant increase of GFA during the second session with approximately 5% (P&lt;0.05). The reliability of RTF(min) and GFA was best with an ICC of 0.84 and 0.80, respectively (P&lt;0.0001). We conclude that remote eye tracking is well suited for quantification of timing and executing oculomotor fixations during orienting behaviour tasks. The presented method may be applied in young children with developmental disorders or brain damage.
Synapses between nociceptive dorsal root ganglion (DRG) neurons and spinal cord dorsal horn neurons represent the first loci for transmission of painful stimuli. Our knowledge of the molecular organization and development of these synapses is sparse due, partly, to a lack of a reliable model system that reconstitutes synaptogenesis between these two neuronal populations. To address this issue, we have established an in vitro assay system consisting of separately purified DRG neurons and dorsal horn neurons on astrocyte microislands. Using immunocytochemistry, we have found that 97%, 93%, 98%, 96%, and 94% of DRG neurons on these microislands express markers often associated with nociceptive neurons including Substance P, TRPV1, calcitonin-gene related peptide (CGRP), TrKA, and peripherin, respectively. Triple labeling with these nociceptive-like markers, synaptic vesicle marker Vglut2 and using MAP2 as a dendritic marker revealed the presence of nociceptive-like markers at synaptic terminals. Using this immunocytochemical approach, we counted contact points as overlapping MAP2/Vglut2 puncta and showed that they increased with time in culture. Single and dual patch-clamp recordings showed that overlapping Vglut2/MAP2 puncta observed after a few days in culture are likely to be functional synapses between DRG and dorsal horn neurons in our in vitro assay system. Taken together, these data suggest our co-culture microisland model system consists of mostly nociceptive-like DRG neurons that express presynaptic markers and form functional synapses with their dorsal horn partners. Thus, this model system may have direct application for studies on factors regulating development of nociceptive DRG/dorsal horn synapses.
Fixed dystonia is an uncommon but severely disabling condition typically affecting young women following a minor peripheral injury. There is no evidence of any structural lesions of the central nervous system nor any clear peripheral nerve or root damage. Electrophysiological techniques such as short intracortical inhibition, cortical silent period and a plasticity inducing protocol have revealed similarities but also differences compared to classical mobile dystonia. To further explore the pathophysiology of fixed dystonia we compared mental rotation of body parts and sensory temporal discrimination in 11 patients with fixed dystonia, 11 patients with classical mobile dystonia and 10 healthy controls. In the mental rotation task subjects were presented with realistic photos of left or right hands, feet and the head of a young women with a black patch covering the left or the right eye in six different orientations. Subjects had to verbally report the laterality of the presented stimuli. To assess sensory temporal discrimination subjects were asked to discriminate whether pairs of visual, tactile (electrical), or visuo-tactile stimuli were simultaneous or sequential (temporal discrimination threshold) and in the latter case which stimulus preceded the other (temporal order judgement). In accordance with previous studies patients with mobile dystonia were abnormal in mental rotation and temporal discrimination, whereas patients with fixed dystonia were only impaired in mental rotation. Possible explanations for this deficit may include the influence of the abnormal body posture itself, a shared predisposing pathophysiology for mobile and fixed dystonia, or a body image disturbance. These findings add information to the developing pathophysiological picture of fixed dystonia.
Kufor Rakeb disease (KRD, PARK9) is an autosomal recessive extrapyramidal-pyramidal syndrome with generalized brain atrophy due to ATP13A2 gene mutations. We report clinical details and investigational results focusing on radiological findings of a genetically-proven KRD case. Clinically, there was early onset levodopa-responsive dystonia-parkinsonism with pyramidal signs and eye movement abnormalities. Brain MRI revealed generalized atrophy and putaminal and caudate iron accumulation bilaterally. Our findings add KRD to the group of syndromes of neurodegeneration with brain iron accumulation (NBIA). KRD should be considered in patients with dystonia-parkinsonism with iron on brain imaging and we suggest classifying as NBIA type 3.
We previously reported the occurrence of Lewy bodies in grafted human fetal mesencephalic neurons in two patients with Parkinson's disease. Here, we have used immunohistochemistry and electron microscopy to characterize the development of Lewy bodies in one of these cases. This patient was operated in putamen on both sides at 12 or 16 years before death, respectively. We demonstrate that 2% of the 12-year-old and 5% of the 16-year-old grafted, presumed dopaminergic neurons contained Lewy bodies immunoreactive for alpha-synuclein. Based on morphological analysis, two forms of alpha-synuclein-positive aggregates were distinguished in the grafts, the first a classical and compact Lewy body, the other a loose meshwork aggregate. Lewy bodies in the grafts stained positively for ubiquitin and thioflavin-S, and contained characteristic alpha-synuclein immunoreactive electron dense fibrillar structures on electron microscopy. Our data indicate that Lewy bodies develop gradually in transplanted dopaminergic neurons in a fashion similar to that in dopaminergic neurons in the host substantia nigra.
Restless legs syndrome (RLS) is a possible consequence of end-stage renal disease. However, conclusive data on the association between RLS and chronic renal failure (CRF) in nondialyzed patients are still lacking. The aims of this study were: (1) to look for an association between RLS and CRF in nondialyzed patients; (2) to analyze the characteristics of RLS and its consequences on nocturnal rest in nondialyzed patients with CRF; (3) to identify possible predictors of RLS occurrence in nondialyzed patients with CRF. We recruited 138 nondialyzed patients with CRF (mean age: 69.8 +/- 11.7 years; male: 61.6%) and 151 controls (mean age: 60.2 +/- 18.6 years; male: 42.4%). An expert in sleep medicine investigated the presence of RLS by means of a face-to-face interview. Fifteen nondialyzed CRF patients and five controls were diagnosed as RLS affected. A multivariate analysis confirmed that RLS was independently associated with CRF in nondialyzed patients (P = 0.004). CRF patients RLS(+) were more commonly women and showed the presence of an iron deficiency compared with the RLS(-) ones. Independent predictors of RLS in nondialyzed CRF patients were: female sex (OR: 10.7, 95% CI: 2.2-31.3; P = 0.004) and percentage of transferrin saturation (OR: 0.6, 95% CI: 0.4-0.9; P = 0.04). This is the first case-control study able to recognize an association between RLS and CRF in patients not yet on dialysis. Nephrologists should investigate and treat RLS in their nondialyzed patients with CRF. In particular, physicians should carefully investigate women and patients with iron deficiency in the presence of RLS symptoms.



We have studied the motor abilities and associative learning capabilities of adult mice placed in different enriched environments. Three-month-old animals were maintained for a month alone (AL), alone in a physically enriched environment (PHY), and, finally, in groups in the absence (SO) or presence (SOPHY) of an enriched environment. The animals' capabilities were subsequently checked in the rotarod test, and for classical and instrumental learning. The PHY and SOPHY groups presented better performances in the rotarod test and in the acquisition of the instrumental learning task. In contrast, no significant differences between groups were observed for classical eyeblink conditioning. The four groups presented similar increases in the strength of field EPSPs (fEPSPs) evoked at the hippocampal CA3-CA1 synapse across classical conditioning sessions, with no significant differences between groups. These trained animals were pulse-injected with bromodeoxyuridine (BrdU) to determine hippocampal neurogenesis. No significant differences were found in the number of NeuN/BrdU double-labeled neurons. We repeated the same BrdU study in one-month-old mice raised for an additional month in the above-mentioned four different environments. These animals were not submitted to rotarod or conditioned tests. Non-trained PHY and SOPHY groups presented more neurogenesis than the other two groups. Thus, neurogenesis seems to be related to physical enrichment at early ages, but not to learning acquisition in adult mice.

Musical competence may confer cognitive advantages that extend beyond processing of familiar musical sounds. Behavioural evidence indicates a general enhancement of both working memory and attention in musicians. It is possible that musicians, due to their training, are better able to maintain focus on task-relevant stimuli, a skill which is crucial to working memory. We measured the blood oxygenation-level dependent (BOLD) activation signal in musicians and non-musicians during working memory of musical sounds to determine the relation among performance, musical competence and generally enhanced cognition. All participants easily distinguished the stimuli. We tested the hypothesis that musicians nonetheless would perform better, and that differential brain activity would mainly be present in cortical areas involved in cognitive control such as the lateral prefrontal cortex. The musicians performed better as reflected in reaction times and error rates. Musicians also had larger BOLD responses than non-musicians in neuronal networks that sustain attention and cognitive control, including regions of the lateral prefrontal cortex, lateral parietal cortex, insula, and putamen in the right hemisphere, and bilaterally in the posterior dorsal prefrontal cortex and anterior cingulate gyrus. The relationship between the task performance and the magnitude of the BOLD response was more positive in musicians than in non-musicians, particularly during the most difficult working memory task. The results confirm previous findings that neural activity increases during enhanced working memory performance. The results also suggest that superior working memory task performance in musicians rely on an enhanced ability to exert sustained cognitive control. This cognitive benefit in musicians may be a consequence of focused musical training.
Tremor imposes an important limit to the accuracy of fine movements in healthy individuals and can be a disabling feature of neurological disease. Voluntary slow finger movements are not smooth but are characterized by large discontinuities (i.e., steps) in the tremor frequency range (approximately 10 Hz). Previous studies have shown that these discontinuities are coherent with activity in the primary motor cortex (M1), but that other brain areas are probably also involved. We investigated the contribution of three important subcortical areas in two macaque monkeys trained to perform slow finger movements. Local field potential and single-unit activity were recorded from the deep cerebellar nuclei (DCN), medial pontomedullary reticular formation, and the intermediate zone of the spinal cord (SC). Coherence between LFP and acceleration was significant at 6 to 13 Hz for all areas, confirming the highly distributed nature of the central network responsible for this activity. The coherence phase at 6 to 13 Hz for DCN and pontomedullary reticular formation was similar to our previous results in M1. By contrast, for SC the phase differed from M1 by approximately pi rad. Examination of single-unit discharge confirmed that this was a genuine difference in neural spiking and could not be explained by different properties of the local field potential. Convergence of antiphase oscillations from the SC with cortical and subcortical descending inputs will lead to cancellation of approximately 10 Hz oscillations at the motoneuronal level. This could appreciably limit drive to muscle at this frequency, thereby reducing tremor and improving movement precision.
The delivery of AMPA receptors to the plasma membrane is a critical step both for the synaptic delivery of these receptors and for the regulation of synaptic transmission. To directly visualize fusion events of transport vesicles containing the AMPA receptor GluA2 subunit with the plasma membrane we used pHluorin-tagged GluA2 subunits and total internal reflection fluorescence microscopy. We demonstrate that the plasma membrane insertion of GluA2 requires the NSF binding site within its intracellular cytoplasmic domain and that RNA editing of the Q/R site in the ion channel region plays a key role in GluA2 plasma membrane insertion. Finally, we show that plasma membrane insertion of heteromeric GluA2/3 receptors follows the same rules as homomeric GluA2 receptors. These results demonstrate that the plasma membrane delivery of GluA2 containing AMPA receptors is regulated by its unique structural elements.
Sensory input to different cortical areas differentially varies across the light-dark cycle and likely is responsible, in part, for activity-dependent changes in time-of-day differences in protein expression such as Fos. In this study we investigate time-of-day differences between dark (just before light onset) and light (just before dark onset) for the number of immunoreactive (IR) neurons that stained for tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNFalpha), interleukin-1 beta (IL1 beta), nerve growth factor (NGF), the neuronal nuclear protein (NeuN) and Fos in the rat somatosensory cortex (Sctx) and visual cortex (Vctx). Additionally, astrocyte IL1 beta-IR in the Sctx and Vctx was determined. TNFalpha and IL1 beta, as well as the immediate early gene protein Fos, were higher at the end of the dark phase (2300 h) compared to values obtained at the end of the light phase (1100 h) in the Sctx and Vctx. IL1 beta-IR in Sctx and Vctx astrocytes was higher at 2300 h than that observed at 1100 h. . In contrast, the number of NGF-IR neurons was higher in the Vctx than in the Sctx but did not differ in time. However, the density of the NGF-IR neurons in layer V was greater at 2300 h in the Sctx than at 1100 h. NeuN-IR was higher at 2300 h in the Sctx but was lower at this time in the Vctx compared to 1100 h. These data demonstrate that expressions of the molecules examined are dependent on activity, the sleep-wake cycle and brain location. These factors interact to modulate time-of-day expression.
Although in-vitro peripheral nerve preparations are useful tools in studying the physiology of axons, their function invariably declines gradually over time. This study investigates the effects of age and temperature on both the in-vitro stability of rat sciatic nerve and the response of the nerve to acute hypoxia. Comparison of the effects of age and temperature in these two models can clarify a possible connection between the hypoxic response and the stability of in-vitro preparations. In in-vitro preparations, the amplitude of the nerve action potential (NAP) declines more rapidly at high temperatures than low temperatures. At high temperatures, the decline in NAP amplitude is faster in nerves taken from younger animals while at low temperatures, the NAP amplitude is the same in both young and old animals. This dependence is similar to that of the time required for the NAP to reach 50% of its baseline value after recovery from hypoxia and the NAP amplitude after a 1.5-h period of hypoxia. It is different from the behavior of the time required for the NAP to drop to 50% of its initial value during hypoxia since the effects of temperature and age on this parameter are independent. This provides evidence of a relationship between the injury caused by hypoxia and the changes that occur after transection. However, since the effect of age on the changes in conduction velocity after transection and after hypoxia are different, the two processes must differ in the response of myelin to the metabolic changes in these conditions.
Mammalian circadian rhythms are generated by a network of transcriptional and translational loops in the expression of a panel of clock genes in various brain and peripheral sites. Many of the output rhythms controlled by this system are significantly affected by ageing, although the mechanisms of age-related circadian dysfunction remain opaque. The aim of this study was to investigate the effect of aging on the daily oscillation of two clock gene proteins (CLOCK, BMAL1) in the mouse brain. Clock gene protein expression in the brain was measured by means of immunohistochemistry in groups of young (4 months) and older (16 months) mice sampled every 4h over a 24-h cycle. CLOCK and BMAL1 were constitutively expressed in the suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN; the master circadian pacemaker) in young adult animals. We report novel rhythmic expression of CLOCK and BMAL1 in a number of extra-SCN sites in the young mouse brain, including the hippocampus, amygdala and the paraventricular, arcuate and dorsomedial nuclei of the hypothalamus. Aging altered the amplitude and/or phase of expression in these regions. These results indicate hitherto unreported expression patterns of CLOCK and BMAL1 in non-SCN brain circadian oscillators, and suggest that alterations of these patterns may contribute to age-related circadian dysfunction.

We use magnetoencephalography (MEG) and electroencephalography (EEG) to locate and determine the temporal evolution in brain areas involved in the processing of simple sensory stimuli. We will use somatosensory stimuli to locate the hand somatosensory areas, auditory stimuli to locate the auditory cortices, visual stimuli in four quadrants of the visual field to locate the early visual areas. These type of experiments are used for functional mapping in epileptic and brain tumor patients to locate eloquent cortices. In basic neuroscience similar experimental protocols are used to study the orchestration of cortical activity. The acquisition protocol includes quality assurance procedures, subject preparation for the combined MEG/EEG study, and acquisition of evoked-response data with somatosensory, auditory, and visual stimuli. We also demonstrate analysis of the data using the equivalent current dipole model and cortically-constrained minimum-norm estimates. Anatomical MRI data are employed in the analysis for visualization and for deriving boundaries of tissue boundaries for forward modeling and cortical location and orientation constraints for the minimum-norm estimates.

Several lines of evidence implicate a central role for alpha-synuclein (aSN) in the pathogenesis of Parkinson's disease (PD). Besides rare genetic mutations, post-translational mechanisms, such as oxidative stress-related nitration, may alter the protein properties in terms of propensity to aggregate or be degraded. Our group previously described increased reactive oxygen species (ROS) production within easily accessible peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) in PD patients compared to healthy elderly subjects. In the present work, we demonstrated a significant induction of nitrotyrosine (NT)-modifications of aSN within PBMCs derived from individuals with idiopathic PD compared to controls, while aSN protein appeared similarly expressed in the two populations. The amount of NT-modified aSN within PBMCs was positively correlated with intracellular ROS concentration and inversely related to daily dosage of levodopa, making its measurement potentially relevant for disease-intervention studies. Neither aSN expression nor its NT-modifications showed any correlation to specific REP1 genotypes, polymorphic variants within aSN gene promoter whose association to PD susceptibility may occur through the modulation of aSN protein expression. Moreover, although NT-modified aSN has been linked to enhanced propensity to aggregate, we failed to detect an increased presence of insoluble aSN aggregates in PBMCs from PD subjects relative to controls, despite a lack of changes in the ubiquitin-proteasome expression or activity. Nonetheless, a significant activation of the autophagy response was identified within PBMCs from PD individuals, which could represent a protective mechanism against abnormal protein accumulation and may explain the lack of aSN aggregation. We discuss the relevance of these findings with respect to PD pathogenesis and biomarker development.
Genes important for mitochondrial function have been implicated in Parkinson's disease (PD). Mitochondrial translation initiation factor 3 (MTIF3) is a nuclear encoded protein required for the initiation of complex formation on mitochondrial ribosomes. Dysfunction of MTIF3 may impair mitochondrial function and dopamine neurons appear to be particularly vulnerable to oxidative stress, which may relate to their degeneration in PD. An association was recently reported between the synonymous rs7669(C&gt;T) in MTIF3 and PD in a German case-control material. We investigated rs7669 in a Swedish Parkinson case-control material. The study revealed no significant association of the individual genotypes or alleles with PD. When comparing the combined TT/CT-genotypes versus the CC-genotype, we observed a significant association (P = .0473) with PD. We also demonstrated that the TT-genotype causes a significant decrease in MTIF3 mRNA expression compared to the CC-genotype (P = .0163). Our findings support the hypothesis that MTIF3 may be involved in the etiology of PD.
In neural stem cells, basic fibroblast growth factor (bFGF) and epidermal growth factor (EGF) promote cell proliferation and self-renewal. In the bFGF- and EGF-responsive neural stem cells, beta1-integrin also plays important roles in crucial cellular processes, including proliferation, migration, and apoptosis. The cross-talk of the signaling pathways mediated by these growth factors and beta1-integrin, however, has not been fully elucidated. Here we report a novel molecular mechanism through which bFGF or EGF promotes the proliferation of mouse neuroepithelial cells (NECs). In the NECs, total beta1-integrin expression levels and proliferation were dose-dependently increased by bFGF but not by EGF. EGF rather than bFGF strongly induced the increase of beta1-integrin localization on the NEC surface. bFGF- and EGF-induced beta1-integrin up-regulation and proliferation were inhibited after treatment with a mitogen-activated protein kinase kinase inhibitor, U0126, which indicates the dependence on the mitogen-activated protein kinase pathway. Involvement of beta1-integrin in bFGF- and EGF-induced proliferation was confirmed by the finding that NEC proliferation and adhesion to fibronectin-coated dishes were inhibited by knockdown of beta1-integrin using small interfering RNA. On the other hand, apoptosis was induced in NECs treated with RGD peptide, a small beta1-integrin inhibitor peptide with the Arg-Gly-Asp motif, but it was independent of beta1-integrin expression levels. Those results suggest that regulation of beta1-integrin expression/localization is involved in cellular processes, such as proliferation, induced by bFGF and EGF in NECs. The mechanism underlying the proliferation through beta1-integrin would not be expected to be completely identical, however, for bFGF and EGF.
Retinal pigment epithelial (RPE) cell integrity is critical for the survival of photoreceptor cells. Bcl-x(L) is a major anti-apoptotic Bcl-2 protein required for RPE cell survival, and phosphorylation of Bcl-x(L) at residue Ser-62 renders this protein pro-apoptotic. In this study, we identify serine/threonine protein phosphatase 2A (PP2A) as a key regulator of Bcl-x(L) phosphorylation at residue Ser-62 in ARPE-19 cells, a spontaneously arising RPE cell line in which Bcl-x(L) is highly expressed. We found that either PP2A inhibitor okadaic acid or depletion of catalytic subunit alpha of PP2A (PP2A/Calpha) by small interfering RNA enhanced Bcl-x(L) phosphorylation when activated with hydrogen peroxide and tumor necrosis factor alpha-induced oxidative stress. Disruption of PP2A/Calpha exacerbated oxidative stress-induced apoptosis. PP2A/Calpha colocalized and interacted with S62Bcl-x(L) in cells stressed with H(2)O(2)/tumor necrosis factor alpha. By contrast, the omega-3 fatty acid docosahexaenoic acid derivative, neuroprotectin D1 (NPD1), a potent activator of survival signaling, down-regulated oxidative stress-induced phosphorylation of Bcl-x(L) by increasing protein phosphatase activity. NPD1 also attenuated the oxidative stress-induced apoptosis by knockdown of PP2A/Calpha and increased the association of PP2A/Calpha with S62Bcl-x(L) as well as total Bcl-x(L). NPD1 also enhanced the heterodimerization of Bcl-x(L) with its counterpart, pro-apoptotic protein Bax. Thus, NPD1 modulates the activation of this Bcl-2 family protein by dephosphorylating in a PP2A-dependent manner, suggesting a coordinated, NPD1-mediated regulation of cell survival in response to oxidative stress.
The isomerization of all-trans retinol (vitamin A) to 11-cis retinol in the retinal pigment epithelium (RPE) is a key step in the visual process for the regeneration of the visual pigment chromophore, 11-cis retinal. LRAT and RPE65 are recognized as the minimal isomerase catalytic components. However, regulators of this rate-limiting step are not fully identified and could account for the phenotypic variability associated with inherited retinal degeneration (RD) caused by mutations in the RPE65 gene. To identify new RPE65 partners, we screened a porcine RPE mRNA library using a yeast two-hybrid assay with full-length human RPE65. One identified clone (here named FATP1c), containing the cytosolic C-terminal sequence from the fatty acid transport protein 1 (FATP1 or SLC27A1, solute carrier family 27 member 1), was demonstrated to interact dose-dependently with the native RPE65 and with LRAT. Furthermore, these interacting proteins colocalize in the RPE. Cellular reconstitution of human interacting proteins shows that FATP1 markedly inhibits 11-cis retinol production by acting on the production of all-trans retinyl esters and the isomerase activity of RPE65. The identification of this new visual cycle inhibitory component in RPE may contribute to further understanding of retinal pathogenesis.


Metric systems for semantics, or semantic cognitive maps, are allocations of words or other representations in a metric space based on their meaning. Existing methods for semantic mapping, such as Latent Semantic Analysis and Latent Dirichlet Allocation, are based on paradigms involving dissimilarity metrics. They typically do not take into account relations of antonymy and yield a large number of domain-specific semantic dimensions. Here, using a novel self-organization approach, we construct a low-dimensional, context-independent semantic map of natural language that represents simultaneously synonymy and antonymy. Emergent semantics of the map principal components are clearly identifiable: the first three correspond to the meanings of &quot;good/bad&quot; (valence), &quot;calm/excited&quot; (arousal), and &quot;open/closed&quot; (freedom), respectively. The semantic map is sufficiently robust to allow the automated extraction of synonyms and antonyms not originally in the dictionaries used to construct the map and to predict connotation from their coordinates. The map geometric characteristics include a limited number ( approximately 4) of statistically significant dimensions, a bimodal distribution of the first component, increasing kurtosis of subsequent (unimodal) components, and a U-shaped maximum-spread planar projection. Both the semantic content and the main geometric features of the map are consistent between dictionaries (Microsoft Word and Princeton's WordNet), among Western languages (English, French, German, and Spanish), and with previously established psychometric measures. By defining the semantics of its dimensions, the constructed map provides a foundational metric system for the quantitative analysis of word meaning. Language can be viewed as a cumulative product of human experiences. Therefore, the extracted principal semantic dimensions may be useful to characterize the general semantic dimensions of the content of mental states. This is a fundamental step toward a universal metric system for semantics of human experiences, which is necessary for developing a rigorous science of the mind.
We investigated the task-specific role of eye and head movements as a compensatory strategy in patients with homonymous visual field deficits (HVFDs) and in age-matched normal controls. All participants were tested in two tasks, i.e. a dot counting (DC) task requiring mostly simple visual scanning and a cognitively more demanding comparative visual search (CVS) task. The CVS task involved recognition and memory of geometrical objects and their configuration in two test fields. Based on task performance, patients were assigned to one of two groups, &quot;adequate&quot; (HVFD(A)) and &quot;inadequate&quot; (HVFD(I)); the group definitions based on either task turned out to be identical. With respect to the gaze related parameters in the DC task we obtained results in agreement with previous studies: the gaze pattern of HVFD(A) patients and normal controls did not differ significantly, while HVFD(I) patients showed increased gaze movement activity. In contrast, for the more complex CVS task we identified a deviating pattern of compensatory strategy use. Adequately performing subjects, who had used the same gaze strategies as normals in the DC task, now changed to increased gaze movement activity that allowed coping with the increasing task demands. Inadequately performing patients switched to a novel pattern of compensatory behavior in the CVS task. Different compensatory strategies are discussed with respect to the task-specific demands (in particular working memory involvement), the specific behavioral deficits of the patients, and the corresponding brain lesions.
Cocaine abuse hastens the neurodegeneration often associated with advanced HIV-1 infection. The mechanisms, in part, revolve around the neuroinflammatory processes mediated by the chemokine monocyte chemotactic protein-1 (MCP-1/CCL2). Understanding factors that modulate MCP-1 and, in turn, facilitate monocyte extravasation in the brain is thus of paramount importance. We now demonstrate that cocaine induces MCP-1 in rodent microglia through translocation of the sigma receptor to the lipid raft microdomains of the plasma membrane. Sequential activation of Src, mitogen-activated protein kinases (MAPKs), and phosphatidylinositol-3' kinase (PI3K)/Akt and nuclear factor kappaB (NF-kappaB) pathways resulted in increased MCP-1 expression. Furthermore, conditioned media from cocaine-exposed microglia increased monocyte transmigration, and thus was blocked by antagonists for CCR2 or sigma receptor. These findings were corroborated by demonstrating increased monocyte transmigration in mice exposed to cocaine, which was attenuated by pretreatment of mice with the sigma receptor antagonist. Interestingly, cocaine-mediated transmigratory effects were not observed in CCR2 knockout mice. We conclude that cocaine-mediated induction of MCP-1 accelerates monocyte extravasation across the endothelium. Understanding the regulation of MCP-1 expression and functional changes by cocaine/sigma receptor system may provide insights into the development of potential therapeutic targets for HIV-1-associated neurocognitive disorders.


Little is known about the regulation and cellular distribution of androgen receptors (ARs) in female rodent brains at various stages of the oestrous cycle. This information is critical for further studies of androgen signalling in the regulation of brain function under physiological and pathophysiological conditions. In this report, we show that the distribution of AR immunoreactivity in the female rat brain is consistent with reported AR mRNA hybridisation signals in the male brain, except for the dentate gyrus of the hippocampus. Immunohistochemical and Western blot analyses performed herein revealed that the onset of region-specific changes in AR proteins was strongly correlated with circulating and ovarian levels of estradiol and testosterone across the oestrous cycle. During the metestrus and diestrus stages, however, the highest levels of AR expression were abolished by chronic dihydrotestosterone (DHT) treatment. This demonstrates that fluctuations in endogenous androgens are required for the regulation of AR expression in the female rat brain. Colocalisation studies revealed that: (1) anatomical variations in AR protein localisation existed between female and male brains, (2) AR immunoreactivity was both neuronal and non-neuronal, and (3) AR protein expression was lower in female rat brains at all stages of the oestrous cycle compared to age-matched males. Our results indicate the presence of regional sex differences in AR expression and changes in the proportion of AR between different subcellular compartments. Furthermore, DHT was found to down-regulate the level of AR in the subcellular compartment in females in a region-specific manner. As a whole, the present study provides the first step toward understanding the dynamics of AR expression and regulation in the brain during normal physiological conditions and for differences in neuronal androgen effects based on sex.


The differential formation of excitatory (glutamate-mediated) and inhibitory (GABA-mediated) synapses is a critical step for the proper functioning of the brain. An imbalance in these synapses may lead to various neurological disorders such as autism, schizophrenia, Tourette's syndrome and epilepsy. Synapses are formed through communication between the appropriate synaptic partners. However, the molecular mechanisms that mediate the formation of specific synaptic types are not known. Here we show that two members of the fibroblast growth factor (FGF) family, FGF22 and FGF7, promote the organization of excitatory and inhibitory presynaptic terminals, respectively, as target-derived presynaptic organizers. FGF22 and FGF7 are expressed by CA3 pyramidal neurons in the hippocampus. The differentiation of excitatory or inhibitory nerve terminals on dendrites of CA3 pyramidal neurons is specifically impaired in mutants lacking FGF22 or FGF7. These presynaptic defects are rescued by postsynaptic expression of the appropriate FGF. FGF22-deficient mice are resistant to epileptic seizures, and FGF7-deficient mice are prone to them, as expected from the alterations in excitatory/inhibitory balance. Differential effects of FGF22 and FGF7 involve both their distinct synaptic localizations and their use of different signalling pathways. These results demonstrate that specific FGFs act as target-derived presynaptic organizers and help to organize specific presynaptic terminals in the mammalian brain.
A central hypothesis for the limited capacity for adult central nervous system (CNS) axons to regenerate is the presence of myelin-derived axon growth inhibitors, the role of which, however, remains poorly understood. We have conducted a comprehensive genetic analysis of the three major myelin inhibitors, Nogo, MAG, and OMgp, in injury-induced axonal growth, including compensatory sprouting of uninjured axons and regeneration of injured axons. While deleting any one inhibitor in mice enhanced sprouting of corticospinal or raphespinal serotonergic axons, there was neither associated behavioral improvement nor a synergistic effect of deleting all three inhibitors. Furthermore, triple-mutant mice failed to exhibit enhanced regeneration of either axonal tract after spinal cord injury. Our data indicate that while Nogo, MAG, and OMgp may modulate axon sprouting, they do not play a central role in CNS axon regeneration failure.
Three proteins in mature myelin (Nogo, MAG, and OMgp) have been purported to be critical in causing both regenerative failure and minimal sprouting after CNS injury. However, the role of this repulsive trio in vivo has been controversial. Lee et al., in this issue of Neuron, provide evidence that genetically deleting all three major myelin inhibitors either singly or all together does not result in regeneration after spinal cord lesion, and the minimal sprouting that occurs, when it does, is insufficient to restore meaningful behavior.


The regulatory repertoire of the enteroendocrine L cell is now supplemented by Cox et al. (2010) with a two-way paracrine loop to the neighboring enterocytes. A picture of a close local interplay in the intestine between lipid and peptide messenger systems, both exploiting paracrine, endocrine, and neuronal pathways, is emerging.

Imagine you are standing at a street with heavy traffic watching someone on the other side of the road. Do you think your brain is implicitly registering your willingness to buy any of the cars passing by outside your focus of attention? To address this question, we measured brain responses to consumer products (cars) in two experimental groups using functional magnetic resonance imaging. Participants in the first group (high attention) were instructed to closely attend to the products and to rate their attractiveness. Participants in the second group (low attention) were distracted from products and their attention was directed elsewhere. After scanning, participants were asked to state their willingness to buy each product. During the acquisition of neural data, participants were not aware that consumer choices regarding these cars would subsequently be required. Multivariate decoding was then applied to assess the choice-related predictive information encoded in the brain during product exposure in both conditions. Distributed activation patterns in the insula and the medial prefrontal cortex were found to reliably encode subsequent choices in both the high and the low attention group. Importantly, consumer choices could be predicted equally well in the low attention as in the high attention group. This suggests that neural evaluation of products and associated choice-related processing does not necessarily depend on attentional processing of available items. Overall, the present findings emphasize the potential of implicit, automatic processes in guiding even important and complex decisions.
Learning to inhibit drug seeking can be an important strategy for inhibiting relapse, and this can be modeled by extinguishing drug seeking in response to a drug-paired context. Rats were either extinguished or withdrawn without extinction training (abstinence) from cocaine self-administration, and measurements of postsynaptic density proteins in the core and shell subcompartments of the nucleus accumbens were compared with yoked-saline controls. Only extinguished rats had elevations of PSD-95, Homer1b/c, and Narp in the postsynaptic density of the core, whereas no proteins measured were altered in the postsynaptic density of the shell in either extinguished or abstinent rats. Using a biotinylation strategy, it was found that surface expression of mGluR5 was reduced only in the core of extinguished animals. Although both extinguished and abstinent animals showed a reduction in long-term potentiation elicited in the core by stimulating prefrontal cortex, blunted long-term depression was observed only in extinguished rats. These data indicate that the elevation in Homer1b/c in the core may have sequestered mGluR5 away from the membrane surface and that the loss of surface mGluR5 inhibits long-term depression. Accordingly, when Homer1c was overexpressed in the core of cocaine-naive rats with an adenoassociated virus, long-term depression was inhibited. This mechanism may contribute to the inhibition of cocaine seeking by extinction training because overexpression of Homer1c in the core also inhibited cue-induced reinstatement of cocaine seeking. These data identify a cellular mechanism that may contribute to extinction-induced inhibition of cocaine seeking.
How much neocortical development depends on connections remains elusive. Here, we show that Celsr3|Dlx mutant mice have no extrinsic neocortical connections yet survive to postnatal day 20, acquire a basic behavioral repertoire, and display spontaneous hyperactivity, with abnormal light/dark activity cycling. Except for hallmarks related to thalamic input, such as barrels in somatosensory cortex, cortical arealization and laminar maturation proceeded normally. However, the tangential extension of the mature cortex was diminished, with radial thickness less severely affected. Deep layer neurons were reduced in number, and their apical and basal dendritic arbors were blunted, with reduced synapse density. Interneurons reached the cortex, and their density was comparable with wild type. The excitability of mutant pyramidal neurons, measured in vitro in patch-clamp experiments in acute slices, was decreased. However, their firing activity in vivo was quite similar to the wild type, except for the presence of rapid firing exhaustion in some mutant neurons. Local field potential and electrocorticogram showed similar range of oscillations, albeit with higher frequency peaks and reduced left-right synchrony in the mutant. Thus, &quot;protomap&quot; formation, namely cortical lamination and arealization, proceed normally in absence of extrinsic connections, but survival of projection neurons and acquisition of mature morphological and some electrophysiological features depend on the establishment of normal cortical-subcortical relationships.
Environmental stimulation is critical for brain development. Here, we report that natural stimulation through enriched environment (EE) rearing during the first 2 weeks of mouse postnatal development promotes GABAergic neurotransmission and accelerates maturation of GABAergic and glutamatergic synapses. Using whole-cell recordings from CA1 pyramidal neurons in acute hippocampal slices, we found that EE-reared mice exhibited higher amplitude of miniature GABAergic postsynaptic currents (mGPSCs) at 1 week of postnatal development, as well as accelerated transition of GABA action from excitation to inhibition, compared with mice reared under standard housing conditions. This enhanced GABAergic synaptic transmission persisted until the end of the second postnatal week, when GABA mostly acts as an inhibitory neurotransmitter. Consistent with these electrophysiological results, we observed elevated levels of GABA(A) receptors and the K(+)-Cl(-) cotransporter KCC2. Similarly, increased levels of excitatory synaptic components, including NMDA and AMPA receptors and the scaffolding protein PSD95, were detected in synaptosomal fractions from the forebrain/hippocampus of EE-reared mice during the first two postnatal weeks. Functional increase in glutamatergic synaptic transmission, as measured by increased amplitude of miniature and spontaneous EPSCs, was also detected during the second postnatal week. Together, these results demonstrate that early environmental stimulation through EE rearing enhances early postnatal GABAergic neurotransmission, which is known to play important trophic functions in many aspects of neural development.

Spinal muscular atrophy is one of the most common genetic causes of death in childhood, and there is currently no effective treatment. The disease is caused by mutations in the survival motor neuron gene. Gene therapy aimed at restoring the protein encoded by this gene is a rational therapeutic approach to ameliorate the disease phenotype. We previously reported that intramuscular delivery of a lentiviral vector expressing survival motor neuron increased the life expectancy of transgenic mice with spinal muscular atrophy. The marginal efficacy of this therapeutic approach, however, prompted us to explore different strategies for gene therapy delivery to motor neurons to achieve a more clinically relevant effect. Here, we report that a single injection of self-complementary adeno-associated virus serotype 9 expressing green fluorescent protein or of a codon-optimized version of the survival motor neuron protein into the facial vein 1 day after birth in mice carrying a defective survival motor neuron gene led to widespread gene transfer. Furthermore, this gene therapy resulted in a substantial extension of life span in these animals. These data demonstrate a significant increase in survival in a mouse model of spinal muscular atrophy and provide evidence for effective therapy.
Neuropsychiatric disorders such as anxiety and depression have formidable economic and societal impacts. A dysregulation of the hypothalamo-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis leading to elevated endogenous glucocorticoid levels is often associated with such disorders. Chronically high glucocorticoid levels may act upon the central nucleus of the amygdala (CeA) to alter normally adaptive responses into those that are maladaptive and detrimental. In addition to glucocorticoids, other steroid hormones such as estradiol and androgens can also modify hormonal and behavioral responses to threatening stimuli. In particular, estrogen receptor beta (ERbeta) agonists have been shown to be anxiolytic. Consequently, these experiments addressed the hypothesis that the selective stimulation of glucocorticoid receptor (GR) in the CeA would increase anxiety-like behaviors and HPA axis reactivity to stress, and further, that an ERbeta agonist could modulate these effects. Young adult female Sprague-Dawley rats were ovariectomized and bilaterally implanted via stereotaxic surgery with a wax pellet containing the selective GR agonist RU28362 or a blank pellet, to a region just dorsal to the CeA. Four days later, animals were administered the ERbeta agonist S-DPN or vehicle (with four daily sc injections). Anxiety-type behaviors were measured using the elevated plus maze (EPM). Central RU28362 implants caused significantly higher anxiety-type behaviors in the EPM and greater plasma CORT levels than controls given a blank central implant. Moreover, S-DPN treated animals, regardless of type of central implant, displayed significantly lower anxiety-type behaviors and post-EPM plasma CORT levels than vehicle treated controls or vehicle treated animals implanted with RU28362. These results indicate that selective activation of GR within the CeA is anxiogenic, and peripheral administration of an ERbeta agonist can overcome this effect. These data suggest that estradiol signaling via ERbeta prevents glucocorticoid-dependent effects of the CeA on behavior and neuroendocrine function.
A recent study of a specific type of retinal amacrine cell shows how a single interneuron can implement a large number of parallel feedback circuits, illustrating how highly complex circuits can be generated by a small number of neurons.
How does race affect the human ability to share and respond to the suffering of others? Recent evidence provides novel insight into how and why race alters empathic neural response.
Some combinations of musical notes are consonant (pleasant), whereas others are dissonant (unpleasant), a distinction central to music. Explanations of consonance in terms of acoustics, auditory neuroscience, and enculturation have been debated for centuries. We utilized individual differences to distinguish the candidate theories. We measured preferences for musical chords as well as nonmusical sounds that isolated particular acoustic factors--specifically, the beating and the harmonic relationships between frequency components, two factors that have long been thought to potentially underlie consonance. Listeners preferred stimuli without beats and with harmonic spectra, but across more than 250 subjects, only the preference for harmonic spectra was consistently correlated with preferences for consonant over dissonant chords. Harmonicity preferences were also correlated with the number of years subjects had spent playing a musical instrument, suggesting that exposure to music amplifies preferences for harmonic frequencies because of their musical importance. Harmonic spectra are prominent features of natural sounds, and our results indicate that they also underlie the perception of consonance.
The mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR) complex 2 (mTORC2) is a multimeric signaling unit that phosphorylates protein kinase B/Akt following hormonal and growth factor stimulation. Defective Akt phosphorylation at the mTORC2-catalyzed Ser473 site has been linked to schizophrenia. While human imaging and animal studies implicate a fundamental role for Akt signaling in prefrontal dopaminergic networks, the molecular mechanisms linking Akt phosphorylation to specific schizophrenia-related neurotransmission abnormalities have not yet been described. Importantly, current understanding of schizophrenia suggests that cortical decreases in DA neurotransmission and content, defined here as cortical hypodopaminergia, contribute to both the cognitive deficits and the negative symptoms characteristic of this disorder. We sought to identify a mechanism linking aberrant Akt signaling to these hallmarks of schizophrenia. We used conditional gene targeting in mice to eliminate the mTORC2 regulatory protein rictor in neurons, leading to impairments in neuronal Akt Ser473 phosphorylation. Rictor-null (KO) mice exhibit prepulse inhibition (PPI) deficits, a schizophrenia-associated behavior. In addition, they show reduced prefrontal dopamine (DA) content, elevated cortical norepinephrine (NE), unaltered cortical serotonin (5-HT), and enhanced expression of the NE transporter (NET). In the cortex, NET takes up both extracellular NE and DA. Thus, we propose that amplified NET function in rictor KO mice enhances accumulation of both NE and DA within the noradrenergic neuron. This phenomenon leads to conversion of DA to NE and ultimately supports both increased NE tissue content as well as a decrease in DA. In support of this hypothesis, NET blockade in rictor KO mice reversed cortical deficits in DA content and PPI, suggesting that dysregulation of DA homeostasis is driven by alteration in NET expression, which we show is ultimately influenced by Akt phosphorylation status. These data illuminate a molecular link, Akt regulation of NET, between the recognized association of Akt signaling deficits in schizophrenia with a specific mechanism for cortical hypodopaminergia and hypofunction. Additionally, our findings identify Akt as a novel modulator of monoamine homeostasis in the cortex.
In the antennal lobe of Drosophila, information about odors is transferred from olfactory receptor neurons (ORNs) to projection neurons (PNs), which then send axons to neurons in the lateral horn of the protocerebrum (LHNs) and to Kenyon cells (KCs) in the mushroom body. The transformation from ORN to PN responses can be described by a normalization model similar to what has been used in modeling visually responsive neurons. We study the implications of this transformation for the generation of LHN and KC responses under the hypothesis that LHN responses are highly selective and therefore suitable for driving innate behaviors, whereas KCs provide a more general sparse representation of odors suitable for forming learned behavioral associations. Our results indicate that the transformation from ORN to PN firing rates in the antennal lobe equalizes the magnitudes of and decorrelates responses to different odors through feedforward nonlinearities and lateral suppression within the circuitry of the antennal lobe, and we study how these two components affect LHN and KC responses.
The cadherin superfamily encodes more than 100 receptors with diverse functions in tissue development and homeostasis. Classical cadherins mediate adhesion by binding interactions that depend on their N-terminal extracellular cadherin (EC) domains, which swap N-terminal beta-strands. Sequence alignments suggest that the strand-swap binding mode is not commonly used by functionally divergent cadherins. Here, we have determined the structure of the EC1-EC2 domains of cadherin 23 (CDH23), which binds to protocadherin 15 (PCDH15) to form tip links of mechanosensory hair cells. Unlike classical cadherins, the CDH23 N terminus contains polar amino acids that bind Ca(2+). The N terminus of PCDH15 also contains polar amino acids. Mutations in polar amino acids within EC1 of CDH23 and PCDH15 abolish interaction between the two cadherins. PCDH21 and PCDH24 contain similarly charged N termini, suggesting that a subset of cadherins share a common interaction mechanism that differs from the strand-swap binding mode of classical cadherins.
Ischemic tolerance is an evolutionarily conserved form of cerebral plasticity in which a brief period of cerebral ischemia (called ischemic preconditioning) confers transient tolerance to a subsequent ischemic challenge in the brain. Polycomb group proteins are gene-silencing factors that are abundant and widely distributed during embryogenesis and are essential to epigenetic cellular memory, pluripotency, and stem cell self-renewal. New insight into the molecular mechanisms underlying ischemic tolerance is highlighted by the finding that ischemic preconditioning activates polycomb proteins in mature neurons. Polycomb proteins act through epigenetic gene silencing to eradicate potential mediators of neuronal death and promote cellular arrest, enabling mature neurons to survive ischemic stroke.
Aposematic prey advertise their toxicity using conspicuous visual signals that predators quickly learn to avoid. However, it is advantageous for predators not to simply avoid toxic prey, but to learn about the amount of toxin that prey contain, and include them in their diets when the nutritional gains are high relative to the costs of ingesting the toxin. Therefore, when foraging on a defended prey population where individuals vary in their toxin concentration, predators should learn to use cues which distinguish prey with different levels of toxicity in order to include less defended individuals in their diets. In this experiment, we found that European starlings (Sturnus vulgaris) could learn to use a bitter taste to predict the amount of toxin that individual prey contained, and use that information to preferentially ingest less toxic prey to maximize their nutrient intake relative to the amount of toxin ingested. Our results suggest that bitter tastes could evolve as reliable signals of toxicity, and can help to explain why many toxins taste bitter. They also highlight the need to develop new mathematical simulations of the evolution of prey defences which incorporate the adaptive decision-making processes underlying nutrient and toxin management.
Elevated cerebral levels of amyloid beta-protein (Abeta) occur in Alzheimer's disease (AD), yet only a few patients show evidence of increased Abeta production. This observation suggests that many, perhaps most, cases of AD are caused by faulty clearance of Abeta. Megalin, which plays an important role in mediating Abeta clearance, is an attractive candidate gene for genetic association with AD. To investigate this hypothesis, we analyzed the megalin gene in a population of 2,183 subjects. Genetic analysis indicated that the rs3755166 (G/A) polymorphism located in the megalin promoter associated with risk for AD, dependently of apolipoprotein E genotype. The rs3755166 AA genotype frequency was significantly greater in AD patients than in control subjects. Furthermore, the luciferase reporter assay indicated that the rs3755166 A variant has 20% less transcriptional activity than the rs3755166 G variant. This study provides strong evidence that this megalin polymorphism confers a greater risk for AD, and supports a biological role for megalin in the neurodegenerative processes involved in AD.
High resolution genomic copy-number analysis has shown that inherited and de novo copy-number variations contribute significantly to autism pathology, and that identification of small chromosomal aberrations related to autism will expedite the discovery of risk genes involved. Here, we report a microduplication of chromosome 15q11.2, spanning only four genes, co-segregating with autism in a Dutch pedigree, identified by SNP microarray analysis, and independently confirmed by FISH and MLPA analysis. Quantitative RT-PCR analysis revealed over 70% increase in peripheral blood mRNA levels for the four genes present in the duplicated region in patients, and RNA in situ hybridization on mouse embryonic and adult brain sections revealed that two of the four genes, CYFIP1 and NIPA1, were highly expressed in the developing mouse brain. These findings point towards a contribution of microduplications at chromosome 15q11.2 to autism, and highlight CYFIP1 and NIPA1 as autism risk genes functioning in axonogenesis and synaptogenesis. Thereby, these findings further implicate defects in dosage-sensitive molecular control of neuronal connectivity in autism. However, the prevalence of this microduplication in patient samples was statistically not significantly different from control samples (0.94% in patients vs. 0.42% controls, P = 0.247), which suggests that our findings should be interpreted with caution and indicates the need for studies that include large numbers of control subjects to ascertain the impact of these changes on a population scale.
In the gastrointestinal tract, interstitial cells of Cajal (ICC) are the regulatory cells of gut movement. W/W mutant mice that have receptor tyrosine kinase KIT mutation lack ICC along the myenteric plexus layer of small intestine. The development and maintenance of the ICC phenotype have been related to KIT, but the other genes involved in ICC development during embryogenesis are not clear. Our aim was to identify ICC-specific genes in the embryonic stage. We examined genes that are expressed less in ICC-deficient W/W mice than in wild type (WT) at embryonic day 14 (E14) in order to clarify the genes associated with the ICC development using subtractive hybridization and microarray. Among them, we identified msh-like 2 (msx2) and neurotrophic tyrosine kinase receptor type 2 (ntrk2). Using real-time PCR, msx2 and ntrk2 were found to be expressed at significantly lower levels in W/W than in WT during embryogenesis. Msx2 immunoreactivity was high in the WT small intestine. These data suggest that the gene expressions of ntrk2 and msx2 were significantly suppressed in KIT mutant mouse embryo and neonate and that these genes are likely to regulate ICC development.
N-acetylaspartate (NAA) is a concentrated, neuron-specific brain metabolite routinely used as a magnetic resonance spectroscopy marker for brain injury and disease. Despite decades of research, the functional roles of NAA remain unclear. Biochemical investigations over several decades have associated NAA with myelin lipid synthesis and energy metabolism. However, studies have been hampered by an inability to identify the gene for the NAA biosynthetic enzyme aspartate N-acetyltransferase (Asp-NAT). A very recent report has identified Nat8l as the gene encoding Asp-NAT and confirmed that the only child diagnosed with a lack of NAA on brain magnetic resonance spectrograms has a 19-bp deletion in this gene. Based on in vitro Nat8l expression studies the researchers concluded that many previous biochemical investigations have been technically flawed and that NAA may not be associated with brain energy or lipid metabolism. In studies done concurrently in our laboratory we have demonstrated via cloning, expression, specificity for acetylation of aspartate, responsiveness to methamphetamine treatment, molecular modeling and comparative immunolocalization that NAT8L is the NAA biosynthetic enzyme Asp-NAT. We conclude that NAA is a major storage and transport form of acetyl coenzyme A specific to the nervous system, thus linking it to both lipid synthesis and energy metabolism.
Microtubule growth proceeds through the endwise addition of nucleotide-bound tubulin dimers. The microtubule wall is composed of GDP-tubulin subunits, which are thought to come exclusively from the incorporation of GTP-tubulin complexes at microtubule ends followed by GTP hydrolysis within the polymer. The possibility of a direct GDP-tubulin incorporation into growing polymers is regarded as hardly compatible with recent structural data. Here, we have examined GTP-tubulin and GDP-tubulin incorporation into polymerizing microtubules using a minimal assembly system comprised of nucleotide-bound tubulin dimers, in the absence of free nucleotide. We find that GDP-tubulin complexes can efficiently co-polymerize with GTP-tubulin complexes during microtubule assembly. GDP-tubulin incorporation into microtubules occurs with similar efficiency during bulk microtubule assembly as during microtubule growth from seeds or centrosomes. Microtubules formed from GTP-tubulin/GDP-tubulin mixtures display altered microtubule dynamics, in particular a decreased shrinkage rate, apparently due to intrinsic modifications of the polymer disassembly properties. Thus, although microtubules polymerized from GTP-tubulin/GDP-tubulin mixtures or from homogeneous GTP-tubulin solutions are both composed of GDP-tubulin subunits, they have different dynamic properties, and this may reveal a novel form of microtubule &quot;structural plasticity.&quot;

Autism spectrum disorder (ASD) is a neurodevelopmental disorder with an unknown molecular pathogenesis. A recent molecular focus has been the mutated neuroligin 3, neuroligin 3(R451C), in gain-of-function studies and for its role in induced impairment of synaptic function, but endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress induced by mutated molecules also deserves investigation. We previously found two missense mutations, H246N and Y251S, in the gene-encoding synaptic cell adhesion molecule-1 (CADM1) in ASD patients, including cleavage of the mutated CADM1 and its intracellular accumulation. In this study, we found that the mutated CADM1 showed slightly reduced homophilic interactions in vitro but that most of its interactions persist. The mutated CADM1 also showed morphological abnormalities, including shorter dendrites, and impaired synaptogenesis in neurons. Wild-type CADM1 was partly localized to the ER of C2C5 cells, whereas mutated CADM1 mainly accumulated in the ER despite different sensitivities toward 4-phenyl butyric acid with chemical chaperone activity and rapamycin with promotion activity for degradation of the aggregated protein. Modeling analysis suggested a direct relationship between the mutations and the conformation alteration. Both mutated CADM1 and neuroligin 3(R451C) induced upregulation of C/EBP-homologous protein (CHOP), an ER stress marker, suggesting that in addition to the trafficking impairment, this CHOP upregulation may also be involved in ASD pathogenesis.

beta-amyloid levels are elevated in Down syndrome (DS) patients throughout life and are believed to cause Alzheimer's disease (AD) in adult members of this population. However, it is not known if beta-amyloid contributes to intellectual disability in younger individuals. We used a gamma-secretase inhibitor to lower beta-amyloid levels in young mice that model DS. This treatment corrected learning deficits characteristic of these mice, suggesting that beta-amyloid-lowering therapies might improve cognitive function in young DS patients.
N-acetylaspartate (NAA) is present at very high concentrations in the brain and is used as a non-invasive marker of neuronal viability in magnetic resonance spectroscopy. N-acetylaspartylglutamate (NAAG) is an acetylated dipeptide formed from NAA, and may be an agonist of the mGluR3 receptor. Both NAA and NAAG are synthesized primarily in neurons. Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is a neurodegenerative disorder resulting in motor neuron death, and progressive paralysis. Levels of both NAA and NAAG are reported to be decreased in ALS. Riluzole is a glutamatergic modulating agent used to treat ALS, but there are conflicting results in the literature concerning the recovery of NAA after riluzole treatment. We studied the effects of riluzole on the biosynthesis of both NAA and NAAG in SH-SY5Y human neuroblastoma cells. We used two methodologies to examine the effect; one involving radiolabel incorporation from corresponding substrates into NAA and NAAG, and the other involving the measurement of endogenous NAA and NAAG levels using HPLC. We show that riluzole treatment, which decreases glutamatergic neuronal excitation, decreases the synthesis and levels of both NAA and NAAG in SH-SY5Y cells in a dose and time dependant manner. These results suggest that the synthesis of NAA and NAAG may be coupled to glutamatergic neurotransmission, and further investigations along these lines are warranted.
The senescence-accelerated mouse prone 8 (SAMP8) is a novel aging model characterized by early onset and rapid advancement of senescence. In the present study, 6-month-old male SAMP8 mice were orally administered icariin (75, 150mg/kg) for 15weeks. Mice were submitted to passageway water maze test and step-down passive avoidance test for evaluating cognitive impairments. The HPLC-EC technique was used to determine the monoamine contents in the brain. The effects of icariin on oxidative stress and the acetylcholinesterase (AChE) activity of SAMP8 mice were also investigated. We found that icariin treatment significantly prevented learning and memory impairments of SAMP8 mice in passageway water maze test and step-down test. Icariin could partly reverse alterations of monoamines and metabolites levels in the cortex and hippocampus of SAMP8 mice. Furthermore, icariin-treated SAMP8 mice had significantly decreased malondialdehyde (MDA), nitric oxide (NO) contents, lowered nitric oxide synthase (NOS) activity and higher glutathione peroxidase (GSH-Px) and superoxide dismutase (SOD) activities in the brain homogenates and serum. Meanwhile, the acetylcholinesterase activity was markedly inhibited after icariin administration. However, the positive control piracetam did not show significant beneficial effects. In conclusion, the present findings demonstrated that the improvement of icariin on cognitive impairments in SAMP8 mice may be due to increasing monoamines levels, inhibiting oxidative damage and decreasing acetylcholinesterase activity.
A dual probing methodology was implemented so that combined in vivo voltammetric (electrochemical) and in vivo electrophysiological analysis could be carried out concomitantly in two distinct brain regions of the same anaesthetized animal, i.e., cell body such as the dorsal raphe nucleus (DRN) and related terminal region such as the hippocampus, the frontal cortex, and the amygdala. In particular, this methodology allowed: In addition, the dual probing methodology has been applied to verify the original proposal that a combined treatment with a potassium (SK) channel blocker such as apamin and an SSRI (i.e., fluoxetine) could overcome the slow onset of the SSRI upon central 5-HT activity that could be related to the slow onset of its therapeutic action. Briefly, the effect of apamin either alone or followed by fluoxetine upon cell firing in the DRN (in vivo electrophysiology) and concomitantly upon 5-HT levels (in vivo voltammetry) in the amygdala (forebrain structure involved in mood regulation and innervated by ascending 5-HT projections from the DRN) was studied.
Despite a lack of definitive evidence, it is frequently proposed that the basal ganglia (BG) motor circuit plays a critical role in the storage and execution of movement sequences (or motor habits). To test this hypothesis directly, we inactivated the sensorimotor territory of the globus pallidus internus (sGPi, the main BG motor output) in two monkeys trained to perform overlearned and random sequences of four out-and-back reaching movements directed to visual targets. Infusion of muscimol (a GABA(A) agonist) into sGPi caused dysmetria and slowing of individual movements, but these impairments were virtually identical for overlearned and random sequences. The fluid predictive execution of learned sequences and the animals' tendency to reproduce the sequence pattern in random trials was preserved following pallidal blockade. These results suggest that the BG motor circuit contributes to motor execution, but not to motor sequencing or the storage of overlearned serial skills.
The ability to select and manipulate self-generated (stimulus-independent, SI), as opposed to stimulus-oriented (SO), information, in a controlled and flexible way has previously only been studied in adults. This ability is thought to rely in part on the rostrolateral prefrontal cortex (RLPFC), which continues to mature anatomically during adolescence. We investigated (1) the development of this ability behaviorally, (2) the associated functional brain development, and (3) the link between functional and structural maturation. Participants classified according to their shape letters either presented visually (SO phases) or that they generated in their head by continuing the alphabet sequence (SI phases). SI phases were performed in the presence or absence of distracting letters. A total of 179 participants (7-27 years old) took part in a behavioral study. Resistance to visual distractors exhibited small improvements with age. SI thoughts manipulation and switching between SI and SO thoughts showed steeper performance improvements extending into late adolescence. Thirty-seven participants (11-30 years old) took part in a functional MRI (fMRI) study. SI thought manipulation and switching between SO and SI thought were each associated with brain regions consistently recruited across age. A single frontal brain region in each contrast exhibited decreased activity with age: left inferior frontal gyrus/anterior insula for SI thought manipulation, and right superior RLPFC for switching between SO and SI thoughts. By integrating structural and functional data, we demonstrated that the observed functional changes with age were not purely consequences of structural maturation and thus may reflect the maturation of neurocognitive strategies.
Variability in cognitive functioning increases markedly with age, as does cognitive vulnerability to physiological and psychological challenges. Exploring the basis of this vulnerability may provide important insights into the mechanisms underlying aging-associated cognitive decline. As we have previously reported, the cognitive abilities of aging (24-month-old) F344 x BN rats are generally good, but are more vulnerable to the consequences of a peripheral immune challenge (an intraperitoneal injection of live Escherichia coli) than those of their younger (3-month-old) counterparts. Four days after the injection, the aging, but not the young rats show profound memory deficits, specific to the consolidation of hippocampus-dependent memory processes. Here, we have extended these observations, using hippocampal slices to examine for the first time the combined effects of aging and a recent infection on several forms of synaptic plasticity. We have found that the specific deficit in long-lasting memory observed in the aged animals after infection is mirrored by a specific deficit in a form of long-lasting synaptic plasticity. The late-phase long-term potentiation induced in area CA1 using theta-burst stimulation is particularly compromised by the combined effects of aging and infection-a deficit that can be ameliorated by intra-cisterna magna administration of the naturally occurring antiinflammatory cytokine IL-1Ra (interleukin-1 receptor antagonist). These data support the idea that the combination of aging and a negative life event such as an infection might produce selective, early-stage failures of synaptic plasticity in the hippocampus, with corresponding selective deficits in memory.
Glutamate-induced excitotoxicity has been implicated in the etiology of stroke, epilepsy, and neurodegenerative diseases. NMDA receptors (NMDARs) play a pivotal role in excitotoxic injury; however, clinical trials testing NMDAR antagonists as neuroprotectants have been discouraging. The development of novel neuroprotectant molecules is being vigorously pursued. Here, we report that downstream regulatory element antagonist modulator (DREAM) significantly inhibits surface expression of NMDARs and NMDAR-mediated current. Overexpression of DREAM showed neuroprotection against excitotoxic neuronal injury, whereas knockdown of DREAM enhanced NMDA-induced toxicity. DREAM could directly bind to the C0 domain of the NR1 subunit. Although DREAM contains multiple binding sites for the NR1 subunit, residues 21-40 of the N terminus are the main binding site for the NR1 subunit. Thus, 21-40 residues might relieve the autoinhibition conferred by residues 1-50 and derepress the DREAM core domain by a competitive mechanism. Intriguingly, the cell-permeable TAT-21-40 peptide, constructed according to the critical binding site of DREAM to the NR1 subunit, inhibits NMDAR-mediated currents in primary cultured hippocampal neurons and has a neuroprotective effect on in vitro neuronal excitotoxic injury and in vivo ischemic brain damage. Moreover, both pretreatment and posttreatment of TAT-21-40 is effective against excitotoxicity. In summary, this work reveals a novel, negative regulator of NMDARs and provides an attractive candidate for the treatment of excitotoxicity-related disease.
Age-associated memory impairment (AAMI) occurs in many mammalian species, including humans. In contrast to Alzheimer's disease (AD), in which circuit disruption occurs through neuron death, AAMI is due to circuit and synapse disruption in the absence of significant neuron loss and thus may be more amenable to prevention or treatment. We have investigated the effects of aging on pyramidal neurons and synapse density in layer III of area 46 in dorsolateral prefrontal cortex of young and aged, male and female rhesus monkeys (Macaca mulatta) that were tested for cognitive status through the delayed non-matching-to-sample (DNMS) and delayed response tasks. Cognitive tests revealed an age-related decrement in both acquisition and performance on DNMS. Our morphometric analyses revealed both an age-related loss of spines (33%, p &lt; 0.05) on pyramidal cells and decreased density of axospinous synapses (32%, p &lt; 0.01) in layer III of area 46. In addition, there was an age-related shift in the distribution of spine types reflecting a selective vulnerability of small, thin spines, thought to be particularly plastic and linked to learning. While both synapse density and the overall spine size average of an animal were predictive of number of trials required for acquisition of DNMS (i.e., learning the task), the strongest correlate of behavior was found to be the head volume of thin spines, with no correlation between behavior and mushroom spine size or density. No synaptic index correlated with memory performance once the task was learned.
The hemodynamic response of the visual cortex to continuously moving spatial stimuli of virtual tunnels and phase-scrambled versions thereof was examined using functional magnetic resonance imaging. Earlier functional magnetic resonance imaging studies found either no difference or less early visual cortex (VC) activation when presenting normal versus phase-manipulated static natural images. Here we describe an increase in VC activation while viewing phase-scrambled films compared with normal films, although basic image statistics and average local flow were the same. The normal films, in contrast, resulted in an increased lateral occipital and precuneus activity sparing VC. In summary, our results show that earlier findings for scrambling of static images no longer hold for spatiotemporal stimuli.
Adult rats were used to identify the effects of infrasound on neurogenesis in the hippocampal dentate gyrus. After 7 consecutive days' exposure to infrasound of 16 Hz at 130 dB, immunostaining of 5-bromo-2'-deoxyuridine (BrdU) and doublecortin (DCX) was preformed. Compared with those in normal groups, the numbers of BrdU+ and DCX+/BrdU+ cells in the subgranular zone in infrasound groups were significantly decreased at 3, 6, 10 and 14 days and returned to normal at 18 days. The percentage of BrdU+ cells that were co-labeled with DCX showed no significant differences between the infrasound and normal groups. These data suggest that infrasound inhibits the cell proliferation in adult rat dentate gyrus but has no effects on early migration and differentiation of these newborn cells.
Contextual fear memory is attenuated by re-exposure of animals to a context alone without pairing it with an unconditioned stimulus, and this phenomenon is referred to as fear extinction. In this study we demonstrated that stereotaxic injection of an inhibitor of Src homology 2-containing protein-tyrosine phosphatases 1 and 2 (SHP1/2), NSC87877, into the hippocampus significantly suppressed extinction of contextual fear in the mouse. Intra-hippocampal injection of NSC87877, however, had no effect on the initial memory formation in contextual fear conditioning. These findings suggest that SHP1/2 activity in the hippocampus is involved in the control of contextual fear extinction.
The non-competitive N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA) glutamate receptor antagonist ketamine has been shown to produce cognitive deficits. However, the effects of ketamine on the consolidation phase of memory remain poorly characterized. Here we show that systemic administration of ketamine immediately after training dose-dependently impairs long-term retention of memory for a novel object recognition (NOR) task in rats. Control experiments showed that the impairing effects of ketamine could not be attributed to an influence on memory retrieval or sensorimotor effects. In addition, ketamine prevented the increase in hippocampal brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) levels induced by NOR learning. Our results show for the first time that ketamine disrupts the consolidation phase of long-term recognition memory. In addition, the findings suggest that the amnestic effects of ketamine might be at least partially mediated by an influence on BDNF signaling in the hippocampus.
Lamina I of the spinal cord contains many projection neurons that express the neurokinin 1 receptor (NK1r). It has been reported that these cells can undergo long-term potentiation (LTP), which may result from insertion of AMPA-type glutamate receptors (AMPArs) containing GluA1 or GluA4 subunits. We therefore investigated synaptic AMPAr expression on these cells with immunocytochemistry following antigen-retrieval. We also examined their density of glutamatergic input (by analysing AMPAr synaptic puncta and contacts from glutamatergic boutons), and phosphorylation of extracellular signal-regulated kinases (pERKs) following noxious stimulation. Our results indicate that there are two populations of NK1r-expressing projection neurons: large GluA4(+)/GluA1(-) cells with a high density of glutamatergic input and small GluA1(+)/GluA4(-) cells with a much lower input density. Results from pERK experiments suggested that the two groups may not differ in the types of noxious stimulus that activate them. Glutamatergic synapses on distal dendrites of the large cells were significantly longer than those on proximal dendrites, which presumably compensates for the greater attenuation of distally-generated excitatory postsynaptic currents (EPSCs). Both types of cell received contacts from peptidergic primary afferents, however, on the large cells these appeared to constitute over half of the glutamatergic synapses, and were often associated with elongated AMPAr puncta. This suggests that these afferents, which probably contain substance P, provide a powerful, secure synaptic input to large NK1r-expressing projection neurons. These results demonstrate the importance of GluA4-containing AMPArs in nociceptive transmission and raise the possibility that different forms of LTP in lamina I projection neurons may be related to differential expression of GluA1/GluA4.
Overactivity of glutamate neurotransmission is suspected to be implicated in Parkinson's disease and levodopa-induced dyskinesia. The fast glutamatergic transmission in the striatum from the cortex is mediated mainly by non-n-methyl-d-aspartate (non-NMDA) receptors. Animal models of Parkinson's disease reveal conflicting data concerning striatal glutamate AMPA receptors. The present study thus sought to shed light on the relationship of striatal AMPA receptors to the development of levodopa-induced dyskinesia. [(3)H]Ro 48-8587, a highly potent and selective-specific antagonist ligand for AMPA receptors, was used to investigate, by autoradiography, striatal AMPA receptors in 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP)-lesioned monkeys treated for 1 month with levodopa alone, levodopa+CI-1041 (NMDA receptor antagonist) or levodopa+cabergoline (D2 receptor agonist). Levodopa-treated MPTP monkeys developed dyskinesias while those that received levodopa+CI-1041 or levodopa+cabergoline did not. In the anterior caudate nucleus and putamen, specific binding of [(3)H]Ro 48-8587 was reduced in all MPTP-treated monkeys compared to control monkeys, but no significant effect of MPTP was measured in the posterior striatum. In dyskinetic monkeys, specific binding of [(3)H]Ro 48-8587 was elevated in subregions of the posterior caudate nucleus and putamen as compared to saline-treated MPTP monkeys. Levodopa+CI-1041 treatment left unchanged specific binding of [(3)H]Ro 48-8587 whereas levodopa+cabergoline treatment reduced it in subregions of the posterior caudate nucleus and putamen compared to control and levodopa-treated MPTP monkeys. Specific binding of [(3)H]Ro 48-8587 was low in the globus pallidus and remained unchanged following both lesion and treatments. In conclusion, the elevated values of AMPA receptors in dyskinetic monkeys (and their prevention through treatments) were only observed in subregions of the striatum.
Damages to the nervous system are the primarily cause of neuropathy and chronic pain. Current pharmacological treatments for neuropathic pain are not able to prevent or revert morphological and molecular consequences of tissue injury. On the other hand, many neurotrophins, like nerve growth factor (NGF), paired off restorative effects with hyperalgesia. Interestingly, the glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factors GDNF and Artemin (ARTN) seem to support neuron survival and to normalize abnormal pain behaviour. In the present research protein levels of NGF, GDNF and ARTN were evaluated in a rat model of peripheral neuropathy, the chronic constriction injury (CCI). NGF was increased by CCI in the ipsilateral dorsal root ganglia (DRG), in the spinal cord and in the periaqueductal grey matter (PAG). On the contrary, ARTN was decreased bilaterally in DRG, spinal cord and PAG. GDNF levels decreased in ipsilateral DRG, whereas the constriction did not modify its expression in the central nervous system districts. Repeated treatments with the antihyperalgesic and neuroregenerative compound acetyl-l-carnitine (ALCAR; 100 mgkg(-1) i.p. twice daily for 15 days) was able to prevent the increase of NGF levels. In conditions of pain relief ALCAR normalized peripheral and central alterations of GDNF and ARTN levels. Characteristically, sham animals that underwent the same ALCAR treatment, showed increased levels of ARTN both in the DRG and in the spinal cord. These data offer a new point of view on the mechanism of the antihyperalgesic as well as the neuroprotective effect of ALCAR.
Strict control over the initiation of action potentials is the primary task of a neuron. One way to lose proper spike control is to create several spikes, a burst, when only one should be initiated. We describe a new site for burst initiation in rat hippocampal CA3 neurons: the Schaffer collateral axons. These axons lack myelin, are long, extremely thin, and form synapses along their entire paths, features typical for many, if not most cortical axons in the mammalian brain. We used hippocampal slices and recorded from individual Schaffer collateral axons. We found that single action potentials were converted into bursts of two to six action potentials after blocking 4-aminopyridine (4-AP) sensitive K(+) channels. The CA3 somata and initial part of their axons were surgically removed in these experiments, leading to the conclusion that the bursts were initiated far out in the axons. This conclusion was supported by two additional kinds of experiments. First, local application of 4-AP to one out of two stimulated axonal branches of the same neuron showed bursting only at the 4-AP exposed branch. Second, intracellular recordings from CA3 somata showed that some spontaneously occurring bursts were resistant to somatic hyperpolarization. We then investigated a hyperexcitable period that follows individual spikes in the Schaffer collaterals. With extracellular excitability testing, we showed that the time course of this hyperexcitability was compatible with that of the bursts, so this hyperexcitability could be the underlying cause of the bursts. Furthermore, the hyperexcitability was enhanced by low doses of 4-AP (20 microM), alpha-dendrotoxin (alpha-DTX) or margatoxin (MgTX). Kv1.2 containing channels may therefore dampen the hyperexcitability, but because bursting was observed only at high 4-AP concentration (1 mM), other channels may be needed to prevent axonal bursting.
The discovery of hydroxylases as oxygen sensors and key regulators of hypoxia-induced gene expression has made them a novel target for manipulating the transcriptional response to hypoxia for therapeutic benefit. In this study we have investigated the effect of prolyl hydroxylase inhibition on synaptic activity in hippocampal slices and compared this to the changes occurring following exposure to hypoxia. Furthermore, we investigated a potentially protective role for hydroxylase inhibition against a glutamate-induced ischemic insult in the CA1 region of organotypic hippocampal cultures. Application of the hydroxylase inhibitor, dimethyloxallyl glycine (DMOG), depressed synaptic transmission. Both hypoxia and DMOG induced a reversible reduction in synaptic transmission, enhanced paired pulse facilitation (P&lt;0.05) and inhibited N-methyl d-aspartate receptor (NMDAR) activity (P&lt;0.01). However the effects of DMOG were adenosine A(1) receptor independent. Our results also suggest a potential therapeutic application for prolyl 4-hydroxylase (PHD) inhibitors in cerebral ischemia, since DMOG protected the CA1 region in organotypic hippocampal slices against a glutamate-induced ischemic insult.
Memantine is a low-affinity NMDA receptor antagonist that is used in the treatment of Alzheimer's disease to alleviate the cognitive symptoms of the disease. In humans, memantine has been shown to facilitate auditory change detection as reflected in the mismatch negativity (MMN) response recorded in the frontal cortex. In the present study we investigated the effects of memantine on the auditory MMN-like responses recorded in anesthetized rats. Saline, a low (3 mg/kg) or a high (10 mg/kg) dose of memantine was i.p. injected into the animals. Auditory MMN-like responses were recorded during the presentation of a repeated tone of one frequency (standard, P=0.956) that was rarely replaced by a tone of another frequency (deviant, P=0.044). The low dose of memantine did not observably affect the amplitude of the auditory MMN-like response, but it prolonged the duration of the response relative to saline. The high dose of memantine, in contrast, blocked the generation of the auditory MMN-like response. The findings suggest that memantine may, with appropriate doses, facilitate already this early stage of auditory processing.
The presence of three water channels (aquaporins, AQP), AQP1, AQP4 and AQP9 were observed in normal brain and several rodent models of brain pathologies. Little is known about AQP distribution in the primate brain and its knowledge will be useful for future testing of drugs aimed at preventing brain edema formation. We studied the expression and cellular distribution of AQP1, 4 and 9 in the non-human primate brain. The distribution of AQP4 in the non-human primate brain was observed in perivascular astrocytes, comparable to the observation made in the rodent brain. In contrast with rodent, primate AQP1 is expressed in the processes and perivascular endfeet of a subtype of astrocytes mainly located in the white matter and the glia limitans, possibly involved in water homeostasis. AQP1 was also observed in neurons innervating the pial blood vessels, suggesting a possible role in cerebral blood flow regulation. As described in rodent, AQP9 mRNA and protein were detected in astrocytes and in catecholaminergic neurons. However additional locations were observed for AQP9 in populations of neurons located in several cortical areas of primate brains. This report describes a detailed study of AQP1, 4 and 9 distributions in the non-human primate brain, which adds to the data already published in rodent brains. This relevant species differences have to be considered carefully to assess potential drugs acting on AQPs non-human primate models before entering human clinical trials.
Recent meta-analyses showed consistently elevated levels of S100B in serum and cerebrospinal fluid of schizophrenic patients. This finding has been attributed to glial pathology because S100B is produced by astrocytes and oligodendrocytes. However, S100B may be likewise associated with schizophrenia-related disturbances in glial cell as well as adipocyte energy supply and glucose metabolism. The influence of antipsychotic drugs on S100B levels remains unclear, and some studies have suggested that treatment with these drugs may actually contribute to the elevated S100B levels observed in schizophrenic patients. In this study, we explored the effects of the typical antipsychotic haloperidol and the atypical prototype drug clozapine on the release of S100B by astrocytic C6 cells and oligodendrocytic OLN-93 cells. Because of the association between schizophrenia and disturbances in energy metabolism, we assessed the effects of these drugs under basal condition (BC) compared to serum and glucose deprivation (SGD). We found that treatment of C6 and OLN-93 cells with haloperidol and clozapine reduced the release of S100B from C6 and OLN-93 cells under BC and SGD in vitro at a tissue concentration corresponding to the assumed therapeutic dose range of these drugs. These data suggest that elevated levels of S100B in bodily fluids of schizophrenic patients are normalized rather than increased by the effects of antipsychotic drugs on glial cells.
Oxidative stress has been suggested as a mechanism contributing to neuronal death induced by hypoglycemia, and an early production of reactive species (RS) during the hypoglycemic episode has been observed. However, the sources of reactive oxygen (ROS) and nitrogen (RNS) species have not been fully identified. In the present study we have examined the contribution of various enzymatic pathways to RS production and neuronal death induced by glucose deprivation (GD) in hippocampal cultures. We have observed a rapid increase in RS during GD, which depends on the activation of NMDA and non-NMDA receptors and on the influx of calcium from the extracellular space. Accordingly, intracellular calcium concentration [Ca(2+)](i) progressively increases more than 30-fold during the GD period. It was observed that superoxide production through the activation of the calcium-dependent enzymes, phospholipase A(2) (cPLA(2)) and xanthine oxidase (XaO), contributes to neuronal damage, while nitric oxide synthase (NOS) is apparently not involved. Inhibition of cPLA(2) decreased RS at early times of GD whereas inhibition of XaO diminished RS at more delayed times. The antioxidants trolox and ebselen also showed a protective effect against neuronal death and diminished RS generation. Inhibition of NADPH oxidase also contributed to the early generation of superoxide. Taking together, the present results suggest that the early activation of calcium-dependent ROS producing pathways is involved in neuronal death associated with glucose deprivation.
We assessed the involvement of the hippocampus in recall of learned fear of a discrete visual stimulus using a fear-potentiated startle (FPS) procedure. Recall was measured by an increase in acoustic startle in the presence of a light that was paired with footshock. In Experiment 1, rats either received sham, dorsal, ventral, or complete (dorsal and ventral) NMDA-induced damage of the hippocampus following FPS acquisition. During the post-surgery retention test, only the rats with complete hippocampal damage showed a significant FPS deficit. In Experiment 2, we examined whether recent and remote memory for FPS would be differentially affected by complete hippocampal damage. Rats received sham or complete hippocampal damage 1- or 4-wk after FPS acquisition. During the retention test, sham rats exhibited significant FPS, whereas rats with hippocampal damage showed a large FPS deficit that was equivalent for recent and remote memories. In Experiment 3, we found that rats with complete hippocampal damage induced before conditioning showed levels of FPS that did not significantly differ from sham rats. Combined, these findings suggest that extensive damage to the hippocampus causes retrograde amnesia for a memory involving a light-shock association that is not temporally graded. The same damage does not cause anterograde amnesia in the same memory task. Partial damage of the hippocampus, whether of the dorsal or ventral region, was insufficient to cause retrograde amnesia. Thus, the hippocampus normally has a critical and long-lasting role enabling recall of fear conditioning to a discrete visual stimulus. In the absence of the hippocampus other memory systems support new learning.
Exposure to polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs) during pregnancy and lactation leads to cognitive impairment and motor disorders in children by mechanisms which remain unknown. It also remains unclear whether different non-dioxin-like PCBs have similar or different mechanisms of neurotoxicity. The main aims of this work were: (1) to assess whether developmental exposure to non-dioxin-like-PCBs 52, 138 or 180 affect cognitive function or motor coordination in 3-4 months-old rats; (2) to shed light on the underlying mechanisms. Female rats were treated with PCBs (1 mg/kg day) in food from gestational-day 7 to postnatal-day 21. The ability to learn a Y maze conditional discrimination task was reduced in rats exposed to PCBs 138 or 180, but not in rats exposed to PCB52. The function of the glutamate-nitric oxide-cGMP pathway (NMDA-induced increase in extracellular cGMP) in cerebellum in vivo was reduced by 33-59% in rats exposed to PCBs 138 or 180, but not by PCB52. The amount of NR1 subunit of NMDA receptors was reduced by 41-49% in rats exposed to PCBs 138 or 180, but not by PCB 52. PCB52 but not 138 or 180 increases extracellular GABA in cerebellum and impairs motor coordination. The effects were similar in males and females. Developmental exposure to different non-dioxin-like PCBs induces different behavioural alterations by different mechanisms. PCB52 impairs motor coordination but not learning while PCB138 or 180 impair learning but not motor coordination. These data are consistent with the following possible mechanisms: (1) developmental exposure to PCBs 138 or 180 reduces the amount of NMDA receptors in cerebellum, which would contribute to reduced function of the glutamate-NO-cGMP pathway, which, in turn, would be a main contributor to the impairment of the ability to learn the Y maze task. (2) Developmental exposure to PCB52 increases extracellular GABA in cerebellum, which would contribute to motor coordination impairment.
Nociceptive pathways with first-order neurons located in the trigeminal ganglion (TG) provide sensory innervation to the head, and are responsible for a number of common chronic pain conditions, including migraines, temporomandibular disorders and trigeminal neuralgias. Many of those conditions are associated with inflammation. Yet, the mechanisms of chronic inflammatory pain remain poorly understood. Our previous studies show that the neurotrophin brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) is expressed by adult rat TG neurons, and released from cultured newborn rat TG neurons by electrical stimulation and calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP), a well-established mediator of trigeminal inflammatory pain. These data suggest that BDNF plays a role in activity-dependent plasticity at first-order trigeminal synapses, including functional changes that take place in trigeminal nociceptive pathways during chronic inflammation. The present study was designed to determine the effects of peripheral inflammation, using tooth pulp inflammation as a model, on regulation of BDNF expression in TG neurons of juvenile rats and mice. Cavities were prepared in right-side maxillary first and second molars of 4-week-old animals, and left open to oral microflora. BDNF expression in right TG was compared with contralateral TG of the same animal, and with right TG of sham-operated controls, 7 and 28 days after cavity preparation. Our ELISA data indicate that exposing the tooth pulp for 28 days, with confirmed inflammation, leads to a significant upregulation of BDNF in the TG ipsilateral to the affected teeth. Double-immunohistochemistry with antibodies against BDNF combined with one of nociceptor markers, CGRP or transient receptor potential vanilloid type 1 (TRPV1), revealed that BDNF is significantly upregulated in TRPV1-immunoreactive (IR) neurons in both rats and mice, and CGRP-IR neurons in mice, but not rats. Overall, the inflammation-induced upregulation of BDNF is stronger in mice compared to rats. Thus, mouse TG provides a suitable model to study molecular mechanisms of inflammation-dependent regulation of BDNF expression in vivo.
The dentate nucleus is the largest single structure linking the cerebellum to the rest of the brain. The peculiar shape and large size of the human dentate nucleus have sparked a number of theories about the role of the cerebellum in human evolution. Some of the proposed ideas could be explored by comparative studies of humans and apes, but comparative studies are hindered because of the complex three dimensional shape of the human dentate. Here we present a 3D model based on a quantitative reconstruction of the human dentate; this model can facilitate comparative studies. The dentate nucleus has been partitioned into dorsal and ventral lamellae based on sheet thickness. Our data show that the thicker ventral lamella occupies a distinctly smaller portion of the human dentate than previously hypothesized. Within the dorsal lamella there is a medial to lateral increase in depth of dentate folds. However, the dorsal lamella retains a thin sheet thickness unlike the macrogyric ventral lamella, in which sheet thickness is increased. The appearance of larger folds laterally reflects the emergence of secondary folds that could encompass the projection of the cerebellar hemispheres, minimizing convergence of different corticonuclear microzones. Thus, the unique feature of the hominoid dentate is the development of a large surface area and an expansion of its mediolateral width. We propose that this is to allow for a large number of independent corticonuclear modules that can modulate an equal large number of sequential motor acts.
Sigma receptor (sigmaR), known as a unique nonopiate, nonphencyclidine brain receptor, can bind diverse classes of psychotropic drugs, neurosteroids and other synthetic compounds, such as (+)pentazocine, etc. Two types of sigmaRs have been identified: sigmaR1 and sigmaR2. In this work, we examined the expression of sigmaR1 in rat retina by reverse transcription-polymerase chain reactive (RT-PCR) analysis and immunofluorescence double labeling. RT-PCR analysis showed that sigmaR1 mRNA was present in rat retina. Furthermore, labeling for sigmaR1 was diffusely distributed in the outer and inner plexiform layers. The sigmaR1-immunoreactivity (IR) was also observed in many cells in the inner nuclear layer and the ganglion cell layer. In the outer retina sigmaR1 was expressed in all horizontal cells labeled by calbindin. In contrast, no sigmaR1-IR was detected in several subtypes of bipolar cells, including rod-dominant ON-type bipolar cells, types 2, 3, 5 and 8 bipolar cells, labeled by protein kinase C (PKC), recoverin and hyperpolarization-activated cyclic nucleotide-gated potassium channel 4 (HCN4) respectively. In the inner retina, most of GABAergic amacrine cells, including dopaminergic and cholinergic ones, stained by tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) and choline acetyltransferase (ChAT) respectively, expressed sigmaR1. Some glycinergic amacrine cells were also labeled by sigmaR1, but glycinergic AII amacrine cells were not labeled. In addition, sigmaR1-IR was seen in almost all somata of the ganglion cells retrogradely labeled by fluorogold. These results suggest that sigmaR1 may have neuromodulatory and neuroprotective roles in the retina.
Our latest study indicated that ethanol could attenuate cerebral ischemia/reperfusion-induced brain injury through activating Ionotropic glutamate receptors Kainate Family (Gluk1)-kainate (KA) receptors and gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) receptors. However, the possible mechanism of the neuroprotective effects of ethanol remains unclear. In this study we report that ethanol shows neuroprotective effects against ischemic brain injury through enhancing GABA release and then decreasing c-Jun N-terminal kinase 3 (JNK3) activation. Electrophysiologic recording indicated that ethanol enhances GABA release from presynaptic neurons and the released GABA subsequently inhibits the KA receptor-mediated whole-cell currents. Moreover, our data show that ethanol can inhibit the increased assembly of the Gluk2-PSD-95-MLK3 (postsynaptic density protein-95, PSD-95 and mixed-lineage kinase 3, MLK3) module induced by cerebral ischemia and the activation of the MLK3-MKK4/7-JNK (mitogen-activated protein kinase kinase 4/7, MKK4/7) cascade. Pretreatment of the GABA(A) receptor antagonist bicuculline and antagonist of VGCC (a broad-spectrum blocker of the voltage-gated calcium channel [VGCC]) Chromic (CdCl(2)) can demolish the neuroprotective effects of ethanol. The results suggest that during ischemia-reperfusion, ethanol may activate presynaptic Gluk1-KA and facilitate Ca(2+)-dependent GABA release. The released GABA activates postsynaptic GABA(A) receptors, which suppress the ischemic depolarization and decrease the association of signaling module Gluk2-PSD-95-MLK3 induced by the activation of postsynaptic Gluk2-KA receptors. There is a raised possibility that ethanol inhibiting the JNK3 apoptotic pathway (MLK3/MKK4/7/JNK3/c-Jun/Fas-L) performs a neuroprotective function against ischemic brain injury.
Congenital central hypoventilation syndrome (CCHS) patients show significant autonomic dysfunction in addition to the well-described loss of breathing drive during sleep. Some characteristics, for example, syncope, may stem from delayed sympathetic outflow to the vasculature; other symptoms, including profuse sweating, may derive from overall enhanced sympathetic output. The dysregulation suggests significant alterations to autonomic regulatory brain areas. Murine models of the genetic mutations present in the human CCHS condition indicate brainstem autonomic nuclei are targeted; however, the broad range of symptoms suggests more widespread alterations. We used functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) to assess neural response patterns to the Valsalva maneuver, an autonomic challenge eliciting a sequence of sympathetic and parasympathetic actions, in nine CCHS and 25 control subjects. CCHS patients showed diminished and time-lagged heart rate responses to the Valsalva maneuver, and muted fMRI signal responses across multiple brain areas. During the positive pressure phase of the Valsalva maneuver, CCHS responses were muted, but were less so in recovery phases. In rostral structures, including the amygdala and hippocampus, the normal declining patterns were replaced by increasing trends or more modest declines. Earlier onset responses appeared in the hypothalamus, midbrain, raph pallidus, and left rostral ventrolateral medulla. Phase-lagged responses appeared in cerebellar pyramis and anterior cingulate cortex. The time-distorted and muted central responses to autonomic challenges likely underlie the exaggerated sympathetic action and autonomic dyscontrol in CCHS, impairing cerebral autoregulation, possibly exacerbating neural injury, and enhancing the potential for cardiac arrhythmia.
Action potentials (APs) in the soma of central neurons exhibit a sharp, step-like onset dynamics, which facilitates the encoding of weak but rapidly changing input signals into trains of action potentials. One possibility to explain the rapid AP onset dynamics is to assume cooperative activation of sodium channels. However, there is no direct evidence for cooperativity of voltage gated sodium channels in central mammalian neurons. The fact that APs in cortical neurons are initiated in the axon and backpropagate into the soma, prompted an alternative explanation of the sharp onset of somatic APs. In the invasion scenario, the AP onset is smooth at the initiation site in the axon initial segment, but the current invading the soma before somatic sodium channels are activated produces a sharp onset of somatic APs. Here we used multicompartment neuron models to identify ranges of active and passive cell properties that are necessary to reproduce the sharp AP onset in the invasion scenario. Results of our simulations show that AP initiation in the axon is a necessary but not a sufficient condition for the sharp onset of somatic AP: for a broad range of parameters, models could reproduce distal AP initiation and backpropagation but failed to quantitatively reproduce the onset dynamics of somatic APs observed in cortical neurons. To reproduce sharp onset of somatic APs, the invasion scenario required specific combinations of active and passive cell properties. The required properties of the axon initial segment differ significantly from the currently accepted and experimentally estimated values. We conclude that factors additional to the invasion contribute to the sharp AP onset and further experiments are needed to explain the AP onset dynamics in cortical neurons.
The complex bi-directional axoplasmic transport of mitochondria is essential for proper metabolic functioning of neurons and is controlled by phosphorylation. We have investigated by time-lapse imaging the effects of increased expression of glycogen synthase kinase-3beta (GSK-3beta) and of the p25 activator of cyclin dependent kinase 5 on mitochondria movements in mammalian cortical neurons and in PC12 cells. Both GSK-3beta and p25 increased the stationary behaviour of mitochondria in PC12 and in neurons, decreased their anterograde transport but did not affect the intrinsic velocities of mitochondria. The microtubule-associated tau proteins were more phosphorylated in GSK-3beta and p25 transfected neurons, but ultrastructural observation showed that these cells still contained microtubules and nocodazole treatment further reduced residual mitochondria movements in GSK-3beta or p25 transfected neurons, indicating that microtubule disruption was not the primary cause of increased mitochondrial stationary behaviour in GSK-3beta or p25 transfected neurons. Our results suggest that increased expression of GSK-3beta and p25 acted rather by decreasing the frequency of mitochondrial movements driven by molecular motors and that GSK-3beta and p25 might regulate these transports by controlling the time that mitochondria spend pausing, rather than their velocities.
A neurotoxic regimen of methamphetamine (MA-40 mg/kg ip) administered at 0 (control-MA vehicle), 0.5 and 72 h prior to determinations of striatal dopamine (DA) and DOPAC (3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid)/DA ratios were compared among juvenile and adult female and male mice. Adult females and males showed similar depletions in striatal DA at 0.5 h post-MA, but males showed greater DA depletions and DOPAC/DA ratios at 72 h post-MA. Juvenile mice showed neither sex differences, nor any MA neurotoxicity upon striatal DA or DOPAC/DA ratios. Following MA, body temperatures increased in all mice, but increases in adult males were greater than adult females; juveniles showed no sex differences and body temperature increases were similar to that of adult males. MA-evoked DA output was greater in adult compared to juvenile males and a biologically effective regimen of testosterone to juvenile males neither increased MA-evoked DA output nor decreased MA-induced striatal DA like that observed in adult males. These results demonstrate: (1) Unlike adults, juvenile mice show neither a sex difference for MA-induced neurotoxicity or body temperature increases, nor MA neurotoxicity, (2) Initial effects of MA (0.5 h) in adult females and males are similar, but at 72 h post-MA females show no further striatal DA depletion, (3) Increased striatal DA depletion within adult versus juvenile males may be related to initially higher MA-evoked DA responses, and (4) Testosterone fails to convert juvenile males into adults with regard to MA effects.
This study examined whether regular exercise training, at a level that would be recommended for middle-aged people interested in improving fitness could lead to improved cognitive performance and increased blood flow to the brain in another primate species. Adult female cynomolgus monkeys were trained to run on treadmills for 1 h a day, 5 days a week, for a 5 month period (n=16; 1.9+/-0.4 miles/day). A sedentary control group sat daily on immobile treadmills (n=8). Half of the runners had an additional sedentary period for 3 months at the end of the exercise period (n=8). In all groups, half of the monkeys were middle-aged (10-12 years old) and half were more mature (15-17 years old). Starting the fifth week of exercise training, monkeys underwent cognitive testing using the Wisconsin General Testing Apparatus (WGTA). Regardless of age, the exercising group learned to use the WGTA significantly faster (4.6+/-3.4 days) compared to controls (8.3+/-4.8 days; P=0.05). At the end of 5 months of running monkeys showed increased fitness, and the vascular volume fraction in the motor cortex in mature adult running monkeys was increased significantly compared to controls (P=0.029). However, increased vascular volume did not remain apparent after a 3-month sedentary period. These findings indicate that the level of exercise associated with improved fitness in middle-aged humans is sufficient to increase both the rate of learning and blood flow to the cerebral cortex, at least during the period of regular exercise.
To understand further how oligodendrocytes regulate brain function, the mechanism of communication between oligodendrocytes and other cell types needs to be explored. An important mode of communication between various cell types in the nervous system involves gap junctions. Astroglial cells are extensively connected through gap junctions forming the glial syncytium. Although the presence of gap junctions between oligodendrocytes and astrocytes have been well documented, evidence for gap junction-mediated calcium transfer between these two glial populations is still missing. To measure functional coupling between astrocytes and oligodendrocytes and to test whether this coupling is mediated by gap junctions we used laser photostimulation and monitored Ca(2+) propagation in cultures from transgenic animals in which oligodendrocytes express enhanced green fluorescent protein (eGFP). We show that waves of Ca(2+) spread from astrocytes to oligodendrocytes and that these waves are blocked by the broad-spectrum gap junction blocker carbenoxolone, but not the neuron-specific gap junction blocker quinine. We also show that the spread of Ca(2+) waves between astrocytes and oligodendrocytes is bi-directional. Thus, increase of Ca(2+) concentration in astrocytes triggered by surrounding neuronal activity may feed back onto different neuronal populations through oligodendrocytes.
Large conductance calcium-activated potassium (BK(Ca)) channels are membrane proteins contributing to electrical propagation through neurons. Calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) is a neuropeptide found in the trigeminovascular system (TGVS). Both BK(Ca) channels and CGRP are involved in migraine pathophysiology. Here we study the expression and localization of BK(Ca) channels and CGRP in the rat trigeminal ganglion (TG) and the trigeminal nucleus caudalis (TNC) as these structures are involved in migraine pain. Also the effect of the BK(Ca) channel blocker iberiotoxin and the BK(Ca) channel opener NS11021 on CGRP release from isolated TG and TNC was investigated. By RT-PCR, BK(Ca) channel mRNA was detected in the TG and the TNC. A significant difference in BK(Ca) channel mRNA transcript levels were found using qPCR between the TNC as compared to the TG. The BK(Ca) channel protein was more expressed in the TNC as compared to the TG shown by western blotting. Immunohistochemistry identified BK(Ca) channels in the nerve cell bodies of the TG and the TNC. The beta2- and beta4-subunit proteins were found in the TG and the TNC. They were both more expressed in the TNC as compared to TG shown by western blotting. In isolated TNC, the BK(Ca) channel blocker iberiotoxin induced a concentration-dependent release of CGRP that was attenuated by the BK(Ca) channel opener NS11021. No effect on basal CGRP release was found by NS11021 in isolated TG or TNC or by iberiotoxin in TG. In conclusion, we found both BK(Ca) channel mRNA and protein expression in the TG and the TNC. The BK(Ca) channel protein and the modulatory beta2- and beta4-subunt proteins were more expressed in the TNC than in the TG. Iberiotoxin induced an increase in CGRP release from the TNC that was attenuated by NS11021. Thus, BK(Ca) channels might have a role in trigeminovascular pain transmission.
The spontaneously hypertensive rat (SHR/NCrl) is a validated model of attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) combined subtype, whereas a recently identified substrain of the Wistar Kyoto rat (WKY/NCrl) is a model of ADHD inattentive subtype. In this study, we first examined the expression of genes involved in dopamine signaling and metabolism in the dorsal striatum and ventral mesencephalon of these two rat strains, as well as three reference control strains (WKY/NHsd, WK/HanTac, and SD/NTac) using quantitative real time RT-PCR. Next, striatal dopamine transporter (DAT) density was determined by ligand binding assay in the two ADHD-like strains at different developmental stages and after methylphenidate treatment. In adult rats, the mRNA expression of DAT and tyrosine hydroxylase was elevated in SHR/NCrl and WKY/NCrl rats compared to control strains, with differences between SHR/NCrl and WKY/NCrl rats also evident. During normal development, changes of striatal DAT densities occurred in both strains with lower densities in WKY/NCrl compared to SHR/NCrl after day 25. Two-weeks methylphenidate treatment during different developmental stages was associated with decreased striatal DAT density in both rat strains compared to the non-treated rats with more pronounced effects followed prepubertal treatment. These results suggest differences in the pathophysiology of the combined versus the predominantly inattentive animal model of ADHD. Finally, treatment with methylphenidate might reduce elevated DAT levels more effectively in the combined subtype especially when applied before puberty.
Perception of the relative orientation of the self and objects in the environment requires integration of visual and vestibular sensory information, and an internal representation of the body's orientation. Parkinson's disease (PD) patients are more visually dependent than controls, implicating the basal ganglia in using visual orientation cues. We examined the relative roles of visual and non-visual cues to orientation in PD using two different measures: the subjective visual vertical (SVV) and the perceptual upright (PU). We tested twelve PD patients (nine both on- and off-medication), and thirteen age-matched controls. Visual, vestibular and body cues were manipulated using a polarized visual room presented in various orientations while observers were upright or lying right-side-down. Relative to age-matched controls, patients with PD showed more influence of visual cues for the SVV but were more influenced by the direction of gravity for the PU. Increased SVV visual dependence corresponded with equal decreases of the contributions of body sense and gravity. Increased PU gravitational dependence corresponded mainly with a decreased contribution of body sense. Curiously however, both of these effects were significant only when patients were medicated. Increased SVV visual dependence was highest for PD patients with left-side initial motor symptoms. PD patients when on and off medication were more variable than controls when making judgments. Our results suggest that (i) PD patients are not more visually dependent in general, rather increased visual dependence is task specific and varies with initial onset side, (ii) PD patients may rely more on vestibular information for some perceptual tasks which is reflected in relying less on the internal representation of the body, and (iii) these effects are only present when PD patients are taking dopaminergic medication.
The hippocampus, a major site of neurogenesis in the adult brain, plays an important role in memory. Based on earlier observations where exposure to high-intensity noise not only caused hearing loss but also impaired memory function, it is conceivably that noise exposure may suppress hippocampal neurogenesis. To evaluate this possibility, nine rats were unilaterally exposed for 2 h to a high-intensity, narrow band of noise centered at 12 kHz at 126 dB SPL. The rats were also screened for noise-induced tinnitus, a potential stressor which may suppress neurogenesis. Five rats developed persistent tinnitus-like behavior while the other four rats showed no signs of tinnitus. Age-matched sham controls showed no signs of hearing loss or tinnitus. The inner ear and hippocampus were evaluated for sensory hair cell loss and neurogenesis 10 weeks post-exposure. All noise exposed rats showed severe loss of sensory hair cells in the noise-exposed ear, but essentially no damage in the unexposed ear. Frontal sections from the hippocampus were immunolabeled for doublecortin to identify neuronal precursor cells, or Ki67 to label proliferating cells. Noise-exposed rats showed a significant reduction of neuronal precursors and fewer dividing cells as compared to sham controls. However, we could not detect any difference between rats with behavioral evidence of tinnitus versus rats without tinnitus. These results show for the first time that high intensity noise exposure not only damages the cochlea but also causes a significant and persistent decrease in hippocampal neurogenesis that may contribute to functional deficits in memory.
Previous reports show that vagal afferent innervation of the stomach eventually regenerates from surviving nodose ganglion (NG) neurons after subdiaphragmatic vagotomy. Systemic capsaicin treatment destroys gastric vagal afferent neurons expressing vanilloid receptor 1 (VR1). However, it is not known whether gastric innervation lost after neuronal destruction can be restored. Here, we report that capsaicin-induced damage of NG neurons innervating the stomach in adult rats is followed by restoration of vagal afferent projections. Specifically, we compared measures of neuronal plasticity in NG and vagi after subdiaphragmatic vagotomy or capsaicin treatment. The numbers of VR1-immunoreactive neurons projecting to the stomach were significantly reduced 10 days after either capsaicin treatment or vagotomy. However, the VR1-immunoreactive afferent innervation of the stomach was restored to levels exceeding those of vagotomized rats by 37 days after capsaicin, whereas neither total afferent innervation nor VR1-immunoreactive innervation reached control levels, even by 67 days after vagotomy. Capsaicin treatment significantly increased NG neuronal nitric oxide synthase (nNOS) immunoreactivity at 10 days after capsaicin, and this increase was sustained for the duration of the study, indicating higher nNOS demand in restoration of vagal projections. Vagotomy was associated with a much smaller increase in the number of nNOS-immunoreactive NG neurons, detectable only at 10 days after surgery. The number of nNOS-immunopositive gastric-projecting neurons was dramatically reduced 10 days after either capsaicin treatment or vagotomy but returned to the control level in both groups at 67 days. We found a significantly higher number of growth cones in capsaicin-treated animals compared with controls. Capsaicin significantly increased the number of nNOS-immunopositive and nNOS-immunonegative growth cones in NG at all time points. Vagotomy did not increase the number of nNOS(-) growth cones in NG. We conclude that capsaicin treatment may result in more significant restorative capacities than vagotomy, mainly because of sprouting of capsaicin-insensitive nerve fibers.
It is well known that chronic ethanol consumption damages CNS through oxidative stress which results in many dysfunctions. Recently, it has been demonstrated that as a promising strategy to treat several neurological diseases, transplanted bone marrow-derived mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) can secrete lots of protective factors that in turn promote function recovery. In the present study, we assessed the potential effects of MSCs conditioned medium (MSC-CM) against chronic ethanol-associated damage on PC12 cells and primary cortical neurons. We found that pretreatment with MSC-CM notably improved cell survival, prevented chronic ethanol-associated apoptosis and abolished the robust deterioration in oxidative status. In addition, we also discovered that chronic ethanol exposure induced an inactivation of phosphatidylinositol-3-kinase (PI3K)/Akt and a lasting activation of extracellular signal-regulated kinase 1/2 (ERK1/2) in both PC12 cells and primary cortical neurons which were able to be reversed by MSC-CM. The PI3K inhibitor (LY294002) was able to reduce the antioxidative and cytoprotective effects conferred by MSC-CM, in part, and the ERK1/2 inhibitor (PD98059) was able to elicit significant protection from chronic ethanol cytotoxicity but not rescue the deterioration in oxidative status induced by chronic ethanol. Taken together, these findings provide the first evidence that MSCs might have potent antioxidant action to shield the apoptotic impairment from chronic ethanol exposure in PC12 cells and neurons, which is involved in upregulation of PI3K/Akt and modulation of ERK1/2 activation, at least partially.
Emerging evidence suggests that cannabinoids play an important role in the modulation of fatty liver, which appears to be mediated via activation of cannabinoid receptors. Steatogenic agents such as ethanol and high-fat diet can upregulate the activity of cannabinoid 1 (CB1) receptors via increasing synthesis of endocannabinoids, 2-arachidonoylglycerol, and anandamide. CB1 receptors can also be upregulated by obesity. CB1 receptor activation results in upregulation of lipogenic transcription factor, sterol regulatory element-binding protein 1c and its target enzymes, acetyl-CoA carboxylase-1, and fatty acid synthase and concomitantly, downregulation of carnitine palmitoyltransferase-1. This leads to increased de novo fatty acid synthesis as well as decreased fatty acid oxidation, culminating into the development of fatty liver. High-fat diet, in addition to CB1 receptor activation, appears to activate CB2 receptors that may also contribute to fatty liver. In non-alcoholic fatty liver disease, CB2 receptor activation is associated with the development of fatty liver. Cannabis smoking can increase the severity of fatty liver in hepatitis C patients although the precise mechanism is unknown. As the mechanisms involved in endocannabinoid receptor signaling are being increasingly well understood and the biosynthetic regulatory elements elucidated, these present good opportunity for the pharmaceutical scientists to design drugs to treat liver diseases, including steatosis, based on the cannabinoids, endocannabinoids, and related templates.
Cannabinoid CB(2) receptors represent a therapeutic target that circumvents unwanted central side effects (e.g., psychoactivity and/or addiction) associated with activation of CB(1) receptors. One of the primary investigative tools used to study functions of the CB(2) receptor is the aminoalkylindole (R,S)-AM1241. However, (R,S)-AM1241 has been described as an atypical CB(2) agonist which produces antinociception mediated indirectly by opioid receptors. (R,S)-AM1241 and its enantiomers, (R)-AM1241 and (S)-AM1241, were evaluated for antinociception in response to thermal (Hargreaves) and mechanical (von Frey) stimulation. Pharmacological specificity was established using antagonists for CB(1) (rimonabant [SR141716]) and CB(2) (SR144528). The opioid antagonist naloxone was administered locally in the paw or systemically to evaluate the contribution of opioid receptors to CB(2)-mediated antinociception produced by (R,S)-AM1241, (R)-AM1241, and (S)-AM1241. Comparisons were made with the opioid analgesic morphine. (R,S)-AM1241, (R)-AM1241, and (S)-AM1241 (0.033-10 mg/kg i.p.) produced antinociception to thermal, but not mechanical, stimulation of the hindpaw in naive rats. Antinociception produced by (R,S)-AM1241 and (S)-AM1241 exhibited an inverted U-shaped dose response curve. (R)-AM1241 produced greater antinociception than either (S)-AM1241 or (R,S)-AM1241 at the lowest (0.033 and 0.1 mg/kg i.p.) and highest (10 mg/kg i.p.) doses. Similar levels of antinociception were observed at intermediate doses. (R,S)-AM1241, (R)-AM1241, and (S)-AM1241 each produced CB(2)-mediated antinociception that was blocked by SR144528 but not by rimonabant. Local and systemic naloxone blocked morphine-induced antinociception but did not block antinociceptive effects of (R,S)-AM1241, (R)-AM1241, or (S)-AM1241. The antinociceptive effects of the CB(2)-selective cannabinoid (R,S)-AM1241 and its enantiomers, (R)-AM1241 and (S)-AM1241, are not dependent upon opioid receptors.




The purinergic signalling system is one of the most ancient and arguably the most widespread intercellular signalling system in living tissues. In this review we present a detailed account of the early developments and current status of purinergic signalling. We summarize the current knowledge on purinoceptors, their distribution and role in signal transduction in various tissues in physiological and pathophysiological conditions.
The presence of adenosine in all nervous system cells (neurones and glia) together with its intensive release following insults makes adenosine as a sort of 'regulator' of synaptic communication, leading to the homeostatic coordination of brain function. Besides the direct actions of adenosine on the neurosecretory mechanisms, to tune neurotransmitter release, adenosine receptors interact with other receptors as well as with transporters as part of its attempt to fine-tune synaptic transmission. This review will focus on examples of the different ways adenosine can use to modulate or metamodulate synapses, in other words, to trigger or brake the action of some neurotransmitters and neuromodulators, to cross-talk with other G protein-coupled receptors, with ionotropic receptors and with receptor kinases as well as with transporters. Most of these interactions occur through A2A receptors, which in spite of their low density in some brain areas, such as the hippocampus, may function as amplifiers of the signalling of other mediators at synapses.



Even students that obtain a high grade in neurophysiology often carry away a serious misconception concerning the final result of the complex set of events that follows the arrival of an action potential at the presynaptic terminal. The misconception consists in considering that &quot;at a synapse, information is passed on from one neuron to the next&quot; is equivalent to (and often expressed explicitly as) &quot;the action potential passes from one neuron to the next.&quot; More than half of four groups of students who were asked to comment on an excerpt from a recent physiology textbook that openly stated the misconception had no clear objection to the text presented. We propose that the first culprit in generating this misconception is the term &quot;synaptic transmission,&quot; which promotes the notion of transferring something or passing something along (implicitly unchanged). To avoid establishing this misconception, the first simple suggestion is to use words like &quot;synaptic integration&quot; rather than &quot;synaptic transmission&quot; right from the start. More generally, it would be important to focus on the function of synaptic events rather than on rote listing of all the numerous steps that are known to occur, which are so complex as to saturate the mind of the student.
Insects have many interesting behaviors that can be observed in an introductory biology laboratory setting. In the present article, we describe several reflexes using the housefly Musca domestica that can be used to introduce students to sensory and motor responses and encourage them to think about the underlying neural circuits and integration of sensory information that mediate the behaviors.

A main neurogenic niche in the adult human brain is the subventricular zone (SVZ). Recent data suggest that the progenitors that are born in the human SVZ migrate via the rostral migratory stream (RMS) towards the olfactory bulb (OB), similar to what has been observed in other mammals. A subpopulation of astrocytes in the SVZ specifically expresses an assembly-compromised isoform of the intermediate filament protein glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP-delta). To further define the phenotype of these GFAP-delta expressing cells and to determine whether these cells are present throughout the human subventricular neurogenic system, we analysed SVZ, RMS and OB sections of 14 aged brain donors (ages 74-93). GFAP-delta was expressed in the SVZ along the ventricle, in the RMS and in the OB. The GFAP-delta cells in the SVZ co-expressed the neural stem cell (NSC) marker nestin and the cell proliferation markers proliferating cell nuclear antigen (PCNA) and Mcm2. Furthermore, BrdU retention was found in GFAP-delta positive cells in the SVZ. In the RMS, GFAP-delta was expressed in the glial net surrounding the neuroblasts. In the OB, GFAP-delta positive cells co-expressed PCNA. We also showed that GFAP-delta cells are present in neurosphere cultures that were derived from SVZ precursors, isolated postmortem from four brain donors (ages 63-91). Taken together, our findings show that GFAP-delta is expressed in an astrocytic subpopulation in the SVZ, the RMS and the OB. Importantly, we provide the first evidence that GFAP-delta is specifically expressed in longterm quiescent cells in the human SVZ, which are reminiscent of NSCs.
The selectively bred alcohol-preferring (P) and -nonpreferring (NP) lines were developed from Wistar rats to model high and low voluntary alcohol consumption and have been demonstrated to exhibit many of the characteristics of human alcohol dependence. Electrophysiologic studies have shown P rats exhibit more electroencephalographic fast frequency activity and reduced P3 amplitude in the parietal cortex than NP rats, findings that are more common in alcohol-dependent individuals. Event-related oscillations (EROs) have been suggested to be good endophenotypes associated with ethanol dependence in clinical studies. Recently EROs have also been demonstrated to occur in rodents in response to stimuli that are similar to that used in human clinical studies. The objective of the present study was to characterize EROs in adult P and NP rats. A time-frequency representation method was used to determine delta, theta, and alpha/beta ERO energy and the degree of phase variation in the parietal cortex of adult P and NP rats. The present results suggest that the decrease in P3 amplitudes previously shown in P rats were not associated with changes in ERO energy but were significantly associated with decreases in evoked delta and alpha/beta phase locking. These studies demonstrate ERO measures may also be good endophenotypes in animal models of alcoholism.


The current view is that bacteria need to enter the brain to cause inflammation. However, in mice infected with the spirochete Borrelia turicatae, we observed widespread cerebral inflammation despite a paucity of spirochetes in the brain parenchyma at times of high bacteremia. Here we studied the possibility that bacterial lipoproteins may be capable of disseminating from the periphery across the blood-brain barrier to inflame the brain. For this we injected normal and infected mice intraperitoneally with lanthanide-labeled variable outer membrane lipoproteins of B. turicatae and measured their localization in blood, various peripheral organs, and whole and capillary-depleted brain protein extracts at various times. Lanthanide-labeled nonlipidated lipoproteins of B. turicatae and mouse albumin were used as controls. Brain inflammation was measured by TaqMan RT-PCR amplification of genes known to be up-regulated in response to borrelial infection. The results showed that the two lipoproteins we studied, LVsp1 and LVsp2, were capable of inflaming the brain after intraperitoneal injection to different degrees: LVsp1 was better than LVsp2 and Bt1 spirochetes at moving from blood to brain. The dissemination of LVsp1 from the periphery to the brain occurred under normal conditions and significantly increased with infection. In contrast, LVsp2 disseminated better to peripheral organs. We conclude that some bacterial lipoproteins can disseminate from the periphery to inflame the brain.
The insertion of amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazole propionic acid (AMPA) receptors into the plasma membrane and removal via internalization are essential for regulating synaptic strength, which underlies the basic mechanism of learning and memory. The retinocollicular pathway undergoes synaptic refinement during development and shows a wide variety of long-term synaptic changes; however, still little is known about its underlying molecular regulation. Here we report a rapid developmental long-term potentiation (LTP)/long-term depression (LTD) switch and its intracellular mechanism at the rat retinocollicular pathway from postnatal day 5 (P5) to P14. Before P9, neurons always exhibited LTP, whereas LTD was observed only after P10. Blockade of GluR2/3-glutamate receptor-interacting protein (GRIP)/AMPA-receptor-binding protein (ABP)/protein interacting with C kinase 1 (PICK1) interactions with pep2-SVKI could sustain the LTP after P10. This suggests that the LTP/LTD switch relied on PDZ protein activities. Selective interruption of GluR2/3-PICK1 binding by pep2-EVKI blocked the long-lasting effects of both LTP and LTD, suggesting a role for PICK1 in the maintenance of long-term synaptic plasticity. Interestingly, synaptic expression of GRIP increased more than twofold from P7 to P11, whereas ABP and PICK1 expression levels remained stable. Blockade of spontaneous retinal input suppressed this increase and abolished the LTP/LTD switch. These results suggest that the increased GRIP synaptic expression may be a key regulatory factor in mediating the activity-dependent developmental LTP/LTD switch, whereas PICK1 may be required for both LTP and LTD to maintain their long-term effects.

Human African trypanosomiasis (HAT), caused by infection with sub-species of Trypanosoma brucei (T. b.), manifests as a hemolymphatic stage followed by an encephalitic stage. The distinction of the two stages needs improvement as drugs used for the late stage are highly toxic. Transcripts encoding 16 secreted proteins differentially expressed in the brains of mice at late stage T. b. brucei infection when the early stage drug suramin is no longer effective and different to immunoglobulins, chemokines, and cytokines, were selected by microarray analysis. Lipocalin 2 and secretory leukocyte peptidase inhibitor (SLPI) mRNA showed the highest differential expression in mice. These transcripts were also upregulated in brains from infected rats. Lipocalin 2 was increased in cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) from rats during late stage T. b. brucei infection. Protein levels of lipocalin 2, SLPI, and the chemokine CXCL10 were found increased in CSF from Trypanosoma brucei gambiense and Trypanosoma brucei rhodesiense late stage HAT compared to early stage.
Although a series of signaling cascades involved in spatial memory have been identified, their link to spatial memory and strain-dependent expression has not been reported so far. Hippocampal levels of the abovementioned signaling proteins were determined in laboratory inbred strain C57BL/6J, the wild-derived inbred strain PWD/PhJ and the wild caught mouse Apodemus sylvaticus (AS) by immunoblotting. The resulting hippocampal protein levels were correlated with results from MWM. Hippocampal signaling protein (hSP) levels were tested also in yoked controls. Within-strain comparison between trained and yoked controls revealed significant differences between levels of Phospho-CaMKII (alpha), Phospho-CREB, Egr-1, c-Src, Phospho-ERK5, Phospho-MEK5 and NOS1 in all of the three strains tested. In addition, the three strains revealed different involvement of individual hSP levels clearly indicating that individual mouse strains were linked to individual hSPs in spatial memory. Phospho-ERK5 levels were not detectable in hippocampi of yoked controls of each strain. We learn from this study that a series of hSPs are associated with spatial memory and that different hSPs are linked to spatial memory in different strains that show different outcome in the MWM. Even correlational patterns in the individual hSPs differed between mouse strains. This is of importance for the interpretation of previous studies on the abovementioned signaling cascades as well as for the design of future studies on these hippocampal proteins. It is intriguing that individual mouse strains, laboratory or wild caught, may use different signaling pathways for spatial memory in the Morris water maze.
Sirtuins function with other biogenic molecules to promote adaptation to caloric restriction in a broad spectrum of eukaryotic species. Sirtuin pathways also converge in the mammalian brain where they appear to protect neurons from nutrient stress. However, few anatomical studies on sirtuins (e.g., SIRT1) are available, particularly those detailing the spatial distribution and subcellular localization pattern of SIRT1 in the brain parenchyma. Here, we report the characterization of a panel of SIRT1-specific antibodies within rodent (i.e., rat and mouse) and human central nervous systems. Immunocytochemical and Western blot analyses indicate that the subcellular localization of SIRT1 is predominantly nuclear throughout the rodent brain and spinal cord. A similar subcellular distribution pattern of SIRT1 was detected in human central nervous system material. SIRT1 is ubiquitously present in areas of the brain especially susceptible to age-related neurodegenerative states (e.g., the prefrontal cortex, hippocampus and basal ganglia). Further, we show no apparent species-specific differences in the subcellular localization pattern of rodent versus human SIRT1. Finally, we identify the chemical phenotype of SIRT1-containing neurons in a number of brain sites that are strongly compromised by aging. These data provide additional and important anatomical findings for the role of SIRT1 in the mammalian brain and suggest that SIRT1 pathways are broadly distributed in neurons most susceptible to senescence injury. Activating endogenous sirtuin pathways may, therefore, offer a therapeutic approach to delay and/or treat human age-related diseases.
In this study, we investigated the effects of interleukin-2 (IL-2) on dendritic filopodia, dendritic arborization, and spine maturation during the development of cultured rat hippocampal neurons. The cultured hippocampal neurons were transfected with F-GFP (farnesylated enhanced green fluorescent protein) at DIV5 to display the subtle structure of dendrites, and were then treated with IL-2 at various concentrations for different time before living cell image observation. We found that both the dendritic arborization and the length of dendrites per neuron at DIV7, DIV10, and DIV14 were increased under IL-2 treatment in a dose-dependent manner, and the strongest IL-2 effects on both dendritic number and length were observed at DIV7. Also, there was a significant increase in the mobility of dendritic filopodia in neurons at DIV7 treated with 10 ng/mL IL-2 for 48 hr from DIV5. In addition, IL-2 caused an increase in spine density of neurons at DIV14 either treated with IL-2 from DIV5 to DIV7 or from DIV5 to DIV14, but did not affect neurons treated from DIV12 to DIV14. These results indicate that IL-2 affects the dendritic development and spinogenesis of cultured hippocampal neurons, especially during the early developmental stage.
Nanotechnology is the science and engineering concerned with the design, synthesis, and characterization of materials and devices that have a functional organization in at least one dimension on the nanometer (i.e., one billionth of a meter) scale. The potential impact of bottom up self-assembling nanotechnology, custom made molecules that self-assemble or self-organize into higher ordered structures in response to a defined chemical or physical cue, and top down lithographic type technologies where detail is engineered at smaller scales starting from bulk materials, stems from the fact that these nanoengineered materials and devices exhibit emergent mesocale and macroscale chemical and physical properties that are often different than their constituent nanoscale building block molecules or materials. As such, applications of nanotechnology to medicine and biology allow the interaction and integration of cells and tissues with nanoengineered substrates at a molecular (i.e., subcellular) level with a very high degree of functional specificity and control. This review considers applications of nanotechnology aimed at the neuroprotection and functional regeneration of the central nervous system (CNS) following traumatic or degenerative insults, and nanotechnology approaches for delivering drugs and other small molecules across the blood-brain barrier. It also discusses developing platform technologies that may prove to have broad applications to medicine and physiology, including some being developed for rescuing or replacing anatomical and/or functional CNS structures.
Spinal cord injury (SCI) leads to neurological deficits and motor dysfunction. Methylprednisolone, the only drug used for treating SCI, renders limited neuroprotection and remains controversial. Estrogen is one of the most potent multiactive neuroprotective agents and it is currently under investigation in our laboratory for its efficacy in SCI. The present review briefly summarizes our earlier findings on the therapeutic potential of pharmacological/supraphysiological levels of estrogen in SCI and outlines our ongoing research, highlighting the efficacy of physiological levels of estrogen against neuronal injury, axonal degeneration, and gliosis and also the molecular mechanisms of such neuroprotection in experimental SCI. Furthermore, our ongoing studies designed to explore the different translational potential of estrogen therapy suggest that this multiactive steroid may act as an adjunct therapy to promote angiogenesis, thus enhancing the functional recovery following chronic SCI. Taken together, these studies confirm that estrogen is a potential therapeutic agent for treating SCI.
A protective role for estrogen against neurodegeneration and neurotrauma has received enormous attention in recent years, unraveling multiple facets and thus establishing this steroid as a multiactive neuroprotectant. The present study briefly reports our findings on the neuroprotective efficacy of physiologically relevant low doses of estrogen in experimental spinal cord injury (SCI) in rats. The current finding further corroborates our earlier results on efficacy of pharmacological/supraphysiological levels of estrogen in SCI and adds to the significance of conducting preclinical studies on estrogen efficacy in SCI.
After peripheral nerve injuries to a motor nerve, the axons of motoneurons and proprioceptors are disconnected from the periphery and monosynaptic connections from group I afferents and motoneurons become diminished in the spinal cord. Following successful reinnervation in the periphery, motor strength, proprioceptive sensory encoding, and Ia afferent synaptic transmission on motoneurons partially recover. Muscle stretch reflexes, however, never recover and motor behaviors remain uncoordinated. In this review, we summarize recent findings that suggest that lingering motor dysfunction might be in part related to decreased connectivity of Ia afferents centrally. First, sensory afferent synapses retract from lamina IX, causing a permanent relocation of the inputs to more distal locations and significant disconnection from motoneurons. Second, peripheral reconnection between proprioceptive afferents and muscle spindles is imperfect. As a result, a proportion of sensory afferents that retain central connections with motoneurons might not reconnect appropriately in the periphery. A hypothetical model is proposed in which the combined effect of peripheral and central reconnection deficits might explain the failure of muscle stretch to initiate or modulate firing of many homonymous motoneurons.
Serotonin (5-hydroxytryptamine or 5-HT) is a pleiotropic neurotransmitter known to play a crucial modulating role during the construction of brain circuits. Descending bulbo-spinal 5-HT fibers, coming from the caudal medullary cell groups of the raphe nuclei, progressively invade the mouse spinal cord and arrive at lumbar segments at E15.5 when the number of ventral GABA immunoreactive (GABA-ir) interneurons reaches its maximum. We thus raised the question of a possible interaction between these two neurotransmitter systems and investigated the effect of 5-HT descending inputs on the maturation of the GABA phenotype in ventral spinal interneurons. Using a quantitative anatomical study performed on acute and cultured embryonic mouse spinal cord, we found that the GABAergic neuronal population matured according to a similar rostro-caudal gradient both in utero and in organotypic culture. We showed that 5-HT delayed the maturation of the GABA phenotype in lumbar but not brachial interneurons. Using pharmacological treatments and mice lacking 5-HT(1B) or 5-HT(1A), we demonstrated that the 5-HT repressing effect on the GABAergic phenotype was specifically attributed to 5-HT(1B) receptors.
Studies of mammalian locomotion have been greatly facilitated by the use of the isolated rodent spinal cord preparation that retains the locomotor circuits needed to execute the movement. Physiological and molecular genetic experiments in this preparation have started to unravel the basic circuit organization responsible for walking in mammals. Here, we review these experiments with a focus on the functional role of excitatory V2a interneurons in the mammalian locomotor network. With regard to these neurons and other network structures we also discuss similarities and differences between the mammalian walking central pattern generator (CPG) and the fish swimming CPG.
Innovative molecular and genetic techniques have recently led to the identification of genetically defined populations of ipsilaterally projecting excitatory interneurons with probable functions in the rhythm-generating kernel of the central pattern generators (CPGs). The role of interneuronal populations in specific motor function is determined by their synaptic inputs, intrinsic properties, and target neurons. In this review we examine whether Hb9-expressing interneurons (Hb9 INs) fulfill a set of criteria that are the hallmarks of rhythm generators in the locomotor circuitry. Induced locomotor-like activity in this distinct population of ventral interneurons is in phase with bursts of motor activity, raising the possibility that they are part of the locomotor generator. To increase our understanding of the integrative function of Hb9 INs in the locomotor CPG, we investigated the cellular mechanisms underlying their rhythmic activity and examined the properties of synaptic inputs from low-threshold afferents and possible synaptic contacts with segmental motoneurons. Our findings suggest that the rhythmogenic Hb9 INs are integral components of the sensorimotor circuitry that regulate locomotor-like activity in the spinal cord.



Despite tremendous growth in recent years in our knowledge of the molecular basis of Parkinson disease (PD) and the molecular pathways of cell injury and death, we remain without therapies that forestall disease progression. Although there are many possible explanations for this lack of success, one is that experimental therapeutics to date have not adequately focused on an important component of the disease process, that of axon degeneration. It remains unknown what neuronal compartment, either the soma or the axon, is involved at disease onset, although some have proposed that it is the axons and their terminals that take the initial brunt of injury. Nevertheless, this concept has not been formally incorporated into many of the current theories of disease pathogenesis, and it has not achieved a wide consensus. More importantly, in view of growing evidence that the molecular mechanisms of axon degeneration are separate and distinct from the canonical pathways of programmed cell death that mediate soma destruction, the possibility of early involvement of axons in PD has not been adequately emphasized as a rationale to explore the neurobiology of axons for novel therapeutic targets. We propose that ongoing degeneration of axons, not cell bodies, is the primary determinant of clinically apparent progression of disease, and that future experimental therapeutics intended to forestall disease progression will benefit from a new focus on the distinct mechanisms of axon degeneration.
Oxidative stress has been implicated in the etiology of neurodegenerative diseases and aging. Indeed, accumulation of reactive oxygen species, such as hydrogen peroxide, generated by inflammatory cells, leads to oxidative stress, which may contribute to the neuronal degeneration observed in a wide variety of neurodegenerative disorders of the central nervous system, such as Alzheimer's disease. The present study indicates that H(2)O(2)-induced cell death can be inhibited in the presence of 1,2,4-triazine derivatives, as measured by MTT and caspase-3 activity. We further show that these compounds exert their protective effect by up-regulation of hemeoxygenase-1, glutamylcysteine synthetase, glutathione peroxidase and nuclear factor-erythroid 2 p45-related factor 2 (Nrf2), while they inhibit NF-kappaB and decrease lipid peroxidation. It shows that there is a potential cross talk between NF-kappaB and Nrf2, an important cytoprotective transcription factor in the presence of these compounds. Moreover, in order for drugs to be effective in the treatment of neurodegenerative diseases, they must be capable of penetrating the blood-brain barrier, whereas more than 98% of all potential central nervous system drugs don't cross. Using a reliable model based on the artificial neural network indicated that these compounds satisfy this requirement.
The prevalence of overweight is increasing dramatically in children. A protective factor against the development of overweight is a sufficient intake of fruit and vegetables. However, the consumption of fruit and vegetables in children is far from ideal these days. Therefore, it is important to examine how the intake of fruit and vegetables can be promoted. In this study, the effects of two fruit promoting techniques were evaluated in 4-7-year-old children: presenting fruit in a more visually appealing manner versus restricting the intake of fruit. Two presentations of fruit (regular and visually appealing) were offered to the participants. In a first taste session participants were either allowed to eat from both fruit presentations (no-prohibition group) or prohibited from eating one of the two presentations (regular fruit prohibited group/visually appealing fruit prohibited group). In a second taste session all participants were allowed to eat from both fruit presentations. The results indicated that visual appeal had a strong effect on consumption of the fruit. With respect to restriction, no effects were found. Parents, schools, supermarkets and food producers should take advantage of these results, and offer children fruit and vegetables that are presented in a visually appealing manner.

After the division of neuronal precursors, many of the newly generated cells become immature neurons, which migrate to their final destination in the nervous system, extend neurites and make appropriate connections. For most neurons these events occur in a narrow time window and, once in their definitive location, they immediately start the final stages of their differentiation program, remaining immature only for a short time. The main objective of this review is to present and discuss recent data on a peculiar population of cells in the adult brain, which retain an immature neuronal phenotype for an unusually prolonged time. We review and discuss recent evidence on the temporal and spatial origin of these cells, their distribution in rodents and other mammals, their structure and neurochemical phenotype, and their putative fate and function. The review is mainly focused on the population of immature neurons located in the layer II of certain cortical regions, but we will also describe similar populations found in other regions of the peripheral and central nervous systems.
Cerebellar GABAergic interneurons comprise heterogeneous phenotypes located at strategic levels of the local networks. Recent findings indicate that they all derive from a common population of multipotent progenitors whose fate choices are determined by instructive information provided by the PWM environment. Here we review about the atypical neurogenic strategy operated within such postnatal niche and we discuss possible instructive mechanisms governing interneuron specification and differentiation.
In the adult murine central nervous system (CNS), the germinal astroglia residing in the subependymal zone of the lateral ventricles and in the subgranular layer of the hippocampal dentate gyrus behaves as neural stem cells actively undergoing neurogenesis and gliogenesis. Although neurogenesis does not normally occur outside the germinal niches, two types of parenchymal glial cells, namely astrocytes and NG2-expressing cells, display distinct progenitor activities in the intact brain or upon injury. Importantly, in defined experimental conditions both cell types reveal the potential to behave as multipotent stem cells suggesting that the mature CNS parenchyma may retain a latent stem cell potential, normally inhibited in vivo that, if properly evoked, might be exploited in situ for endogenous cell replacement following injury. In this review we scrutinise recent studies focussing on (i) the molecular and functional relationships between precursors in germinal niches and non-germinal areas; (ii) the ability of adult parenchymal glia to undergo lineage transgressions and neurogenesis in the intact brain and upon CNS injury. We also compare evidence for lineage plasticity in astrocytes or NG2+ cells, and discuss possible approaches for the implementation of stem/progenitor cell capabilities in non-germinal glial cells.



Postpartum depression disorder (PPD) is a severe illness affecting around 15% of deliveries. Several evidences suggest that PPD is, at least, partially genetic determined. The gene encoding BDNF is a strong candidate for pathogenesis of PPD since that it has been observed decrease of serum BDNF in patients suffering from PPD. The gene encoding BDNF has a polymorphism (Val66Met) that alters the regulated protein secretion; the methionine variant being associated with insufficient secretion compared with the Valine variant. We hypothesized that BDNF gene Val66Met polymorphism could be associated with PPD. We assessed 227 subjects randomly selected who had delivery at a maternity hospital using EPDS. Differences in genotype frequency were calculated by chi (2) test. Logistic Regression Analyses was performed to verify the existence of interaction between biological, psychiatric and environmental variables and PPD. Difference between groups was tested with Student's t test. Tests were two-tailed and results significant when p &lt; or = 0.05. No difference in BDNF genotype distribution was observed between the depressed and non-depressed women. Educational level, stress during pregnancy, bipolar disorder and anxiety was strongly associated with PPD. We were not able to show an association between BDNF polymorphisms and PPD. Further studies are necessary to both of confirm our results and improve validity of PPD diagnosis.




Although it has been suggested that the renin-angiotensin (RA) system and cathepsins contribute to the development and vulnerability of atherosclerotic plaque, the interaction of the RA system and cathepsins is unclear. Thus, we investigated the effects of an angiotensin II type 1 receptor (AT1) antagonist, olmesartan, on the levels of cathepsins in brachiocephalic atherosclerotic plaque and plaque stabilization in apolipoprotein E (apoE)-deficient mice receiving a high-fat diet. Under a high fat diet, treatment with olmesartan (3 mg/kg per day) maintained collagen and elastin at high levels and attenuated the plaque development and cathepsin S (Cat S) level in the atherosclerotic plaque of apoE-deficient mice. The administration of olmesartan suppressed the accumulation of macrophages in plaque. Immunoreactivities of Cat S and AT1 were observed in macrophages. The amount of Cat S mRNA and the macrophage-mediated collagenolytic and elastolytic activities in cultured macrophages were increased by exposure to angiotensin II (Ang II), and these effects were diminished by olmesartan and the NADPH-oxidase inhibitor apocynin. These results suggested that Cat S derived from macrophages is involved in the mechanisms of atherosclerotic plaque vulnerability, and AT1 blocker maintained the plaque stabilization alongside the suppression of Cat S and macrophage activities.
Macrophage presence within atherosclerotic plaque is a feature of instability and a risk factor for plaque rupture and clinical events. Activated macrophages express high levels of the translocator protein/peripheral benzodiazepine receptor (TSPO/PBR). In this study, we investigated the potential for quantifying plaque inflammation by targeting this receptor. TSPO expression and distribution in the plaque were quantified using radioligand binding assays and autoradiography. We show that cultured human macrophages expressed 20 times more TSPO than cultured human vascular smooth muscle cells (VSMCs), the other abundant cell type in plaque. The TSPO ligands [3H](R)-1-(2-chlorophenyl)-N-methyl-(1-methylpropyl)-3-isoquinoline carboxamide ([3H](R)-PK11195) and [3H]N-(2,5-dimethoxybenzyl)-N-(5-fluoro-2-phenoxyphenyl)acetamide ([3H]-DAA1106) bound to the same sites in human carotid atherosclerotic plaques in vitro, and demonstrated significant correlation with macrophage-rich regions. In conclusion, our data indicate that radioisotope-labelled DAA1106 has the potential to quantify the macrophage content of atherosclerotic plaque.

The beneficial effect of the '1-drink-a-day' lifestyle is suggested by studies of cardiovascular health, and this recommendation is increasingly followed in many countries. The main objective of this study was to determine whether this pattern of ethanol use would be detrimental to a pregnant woman. We exposed a primary culture of rat cerebellum from embryonic day 17 (corresponding to second trimester in humans) to ethanol at a concentration of 17.6 mM which is roughly equivalent to one glass of wine. Acutely, there was no change in cell viability after 5 or 8 days of exposure relative to control. By 11 days, a reduction in the number of viable cells was observed without an accompanying change in caspase-3 activity (marker of apoptotic cell death), suggesting changes in cell proliferation. As the proportion of nestin-positive cells was higher in the ethanol-treated cultures after 5 days, we hypothesized that an increase in differentiation to neurons would compensate for the ongoing neuronal death. However, there were limits to this compensatory ability as the relative proportion of nestin-positive cells was decreased after 11 days. To further illustrate the negative long-term effects of this ethanol dose, cultures were exposed for 30 days. After this period, virtually no neurons or myelinating oligodendrocytes were present in the ethanol-treated cultures. In conclusion, chronic exposure to ethanol, even at small doses, dramatically and persistently affects normal development.
Focusing on Machery's claim that concepts play entirely different roles in philosophy and psychology, I explain how one well-known philosophical theory of concepts, Conceptual Atomism (CA), when properly understood, takes into account both kinds of roles.
Henrich et al. provide a compelling argument about a bias in the behavioral sciences to study human behavior primarily in WEIRD populations. Here we argue that brain scientists are susceptible to similar biases, sampling primarily from WEIRD populations; and we discuss recent evidence from cultural neuroscience demonstrating the importance and viability of investigating culture across multiple levels of analysis.
The article by Goodrich-Hunsaker and Hopkins (2010, this issue) takes up an important place among in the recent contributions on the role of the hippocampus in memory. They evaluate the effect of bilateral damage to the hippocampus on performance by human participants in a virtual 8-arm radial maze. The hippocampal damage appears to be highly selective and nearly complete. Exactly as with selective hippocampal damage in rats, the human participants showed a deficit in accurately choosing rewarded versus never-rewarded arms and a deficit in avoiding reentering recently visited arms. The results are triply significant: (1) They provide good support for the idea that the wealth of neurobiological information, from network to synapse to gene, on spatial memory in the rat may apply as a whole to the human hippocampal memory system; (2) They affirm the utility of human virtual task models of rat spatial memory tasks; (3) They support one interpretation of the dampening of the hippocampal functional MRI (fMRI) blood oxygen level-dependent (BOLD) signal during performance of the virtual radial arm maze observed by Astur et al. (2005).
Reversal and extinction learning represent forms of cognitive flexibility that refer to the ability of an animal to alter behavior in response to unanticipated changes on environmental demands. A role for dopamine and glutamate in modulating this behavior has been implicated. Here, we determined the effects of intracerebroventricular injections in pigeons' forebrain of the D2-like receptor agonist quinpirole, the D2-like receptor antagonist sulpiride and the N-methyl-d-aspartate receptor antagonist AP-5 on initial acquisition and reversal of a color discrimination task. On day one, pigeons had to learn to discriminate two color keys. On day two, pigeons first performed a retention test, which was followed by a reversal of the reward contingencies of the two color keys. None of the drugs altered performance in the initial acquisition of color discrimination or affected the retention of the learned color key. In contrast, all drugs impaired reversal learning by increasing trials and incorrect responses in the reversal session. Our data support the hypothesis that D2-like receptor mechanisms, like N-methyl-d-aspartate receptor modulations, are involved in cognitive flexibility and relearning processes, but not in initial learning of stimulus-reward association.
Young adult and aged F344 rats were compared on a silent gap variant of the prepulse inhibition paradigm. Animals were tested using a 50-ms single tone cue, followed by 8 days of silent gap testing. The first 3 days of gap testing were long gaps (range 2 to 100 ms) followed by 5 days of short gaps (range 2 to 10 ms). The effects of gap length, prior experience, and age, on the magnitude and direction (facilitation vs. attenuation) of the acoustic startle response, were examined. The young rats showed stronger and more reliable acoustic startle responses (uncued trials) during all acoustic startle tasks as compared to the old. The younger animals also exhibited a more consistent attenuated response across cues and days. Depending on silent gap length, both reduction (inhibition) and enhancement (facilitation) of startle were observed. Finally, only the young adult animals showed an experience-related shift from facilitation to attenuation in response to very short silent gap cues, and this initial early facilitation predicted later attenuation following additional experience.
Fatigue, an overwhelming lack of physical or mental energy, is a common complaint in patients affected by multiple sclerosis (MS). Although different mechanisms have been proposed to explain MS-related fatigue, injury of distinct anatomical networks seems to be relevant in fatigue etiology. Particularly, theories point to fronto-striatal network pathological changes as a possible neural basis of fatigue. To investigate the role of fronto-striatal white matter structural alterations in fatigue perception we prospectively recruited 40 relapsing remitting patients with MS and 15 healthy controls. In patients with MS, fatigue was assessed using a validated measure, the Modified Fatigue Impact Scale (MFIS; Kos et al., 2005). Brain MRI scans were acquired for each subject enrolled with diffusion tensor imaging. Diffusion tensor data were correlated with MFIS scores using voxel-wise analysis of fractional anisotropy maps and fiber tractography algorithms. A significant cluster of voxels correlating with fatigue scores located in the deep left frontal white matter was identified. Fiber tractography revealed the cluster to be included in a complex fronto-frontal, fronto-striatal, fronto-occipital, and fronto-limbic network. Structural properties of the traced white matter fiber bundles correlated with fatigue perception and patients with clinically relevant fatigue were found to present reduced white matter integrity in the aforementioned tracts compared to those with lower levels of fatigue. Our observations show a significant involvement of different frontal networks in the pathophysiology of fatigue, thus accounting for the multifaceted nature of this disabling symptom.
The aim of this study was to investigate if cognitive behavior therapy (CBT) based on exposure and mindfulness exercises delivered via the Internet would be effective in treating participants with irritable bowel syndrome (IBS). Participants were recruited through self-referral. Eighty-six participants were included in the study and randomized to treatment or control condition (an online discussion forum). One participant was excluded after randomization. The main outcome measure was IBS-symptom severity and secondary measures included IBS-related quality of life, GI-specific anxiety, depression and general functioning. Participants were assessed at pre-treatment, post-treatment and 3 month follow-up (treatment condition only). Four participants (5% of total sample) in the treatment condition did not participate in post-treatment assessment. Participants in the treatment condition reported a 42% decrease and participants in the control group reported a 12% increase in primary IBS-symptoms. Compared to the control condition, participants in the treatment group improved on all secondary outcome measures with a large between group effect size on quality of life (Cohen's d = 1.21). We conclude that CBT-based on exposure and mindfulness delivered via the Internet can be effective in treating IBS-patients, alleviating the total burden of symptoms and increasing quality of life.
Cyclophilins are a family of peptidyl-prolyl cis-trans isomerases whose enzymatic activity can be inhibited by cyclosporin A. Sixteen cyclophilins have been identified in humans, and cyclophilin D is a unique isoform that is imported into the mitochondrial matrix. Here we shall (i) review the best characterized functions of cyclophilin D in mitochondria, i.e. regulation of the permeability transition pore, an inner membrane channel that plays an important role in the execution of cell death; (ii) highlight new regulatory interactions that are emerging in the literature, including the modulation of the mitochondrial F1FO ATP synthase through an interaction with the lateral stalk of the enzyme complex; and (iii) discuss diseases where cyclophilin D plays a pathogenetic role that makes it a suitable target for pharmacologic intervention.
Sea hares, Aplysia californica, have a diversity of anti-predatory defenses. One is an actively released chemical defense: an ink secretion that is a mixture of two glandular products--ink from the ink gland and opaline from the opaline gland. The mechanisms of action of ink secretion and its components have recently been examined in detail against several predatory invertebrates. Our goal is to extend this mechanistic analysis to predatory vertebrates. Toward this end, the current study details the effects of ink, opaline, and one set of its components--the products of the reaction of escapin, an l-amino acid oxidase, with its natural substrates, L-lysine and L-arginine--on the palatability of food for five species of fishes: bluehead wrasses Thalassoma bifasciatum, seorita wrasses Oxyjulis californica, pinfish Lagodon rhomboides, mummichogs Fundulus heteroclitus, and bonnethead sharks Sphyrna tiburo. These fishes have different feeding styles, ranging from large fishes able to engulf sea hares to smaller fishes able to attack sea hares by pecking at them; and they live in a variety of habitats, including those that sea hares typically inhabit. We show that ink but not opaline significantly decreases the palatability of food for all five species, and that escapin products are mildly unpalatable to the two species of wrasses but not to the other species. These results, together with others, show that sea hare ink affects a diversity of predatory fishes, setting the stage for mechanistic studies using electrophysiological analysis of their chemosensory systems.

Lactoferrin (Lf) is a mammalian exclusive protein widely distributed in milk and exocrine secretions exhibiting multifunctional properties. Many of the proven or proposed functions of Lf, apart from its iron binding activity, depend on its capacity to bind to other macromolecules. Lf can bind and sequester lipopolysaccharide (LPS), thus preventing pro-inflammatory pathway activation, sepsis and tissue damage. However, the interplay between Lf and LPS is complex, and may result in different outcomes, including both suppression of the inflammatory response and immune activation. These findings are critically relevant in the development of Lf-based therapeutic interventions in humans. Understanding the molecular basis and functional consequences of Lf-LPS interaction will provide insights for determining its role in health and disease.
A series of quinoline containing histamine H(3) antagonists is reported herein. These analogs were synthesized via the Friedlander quinoline synthesis between an aminoaldehyde intermediate and a methyl ketone allowing for a wide diversity of substituents at the 2-position of the quinoline ring.
The synthesis and SAR of a series of indazole TRPV1 antagonists leading to the discovery of 21 (ABT-116) is described. Biological studies demonstrated potent in vitro and in vivo activity for 21, as well as suitable physicochemical and pharmacokinetic properties for advancement to clinical development for pain management.


Numerous studies have reported an association between cognitive impairment in old age and nutritional factors, including dietary fat. Retinoic acid (RA) plays a central role in the maintenance of cognitive processes via its nuclear receptors (NR), retinoic acid receptor (RAR) and retinoid X receptor (RXR), and the control of target genes, e.g. the synaptic plasticity markers GAP-43/neuromodulin and RC3/neurogranin. Given the relationship between RA and the fatty acid signalling pathways mediated by their respective NR (RAR/RXR and PPAR), we investigated the effect of a high-fat diet (HFD) on (1) PUFA status in the plasma and brain, and (2) the expression of RA and fatty acid NR (RARbeta, RXRbetagamma and PPARdelta), and synaptic plasticity genes (GAP-43 and RC3), in young male Wistar rats. In the striatum of rats given a HFD for 8 weeks, real-time PCR (RT-PCR) revealed a decrease in mRNA levels of RARbeta ( - 14 %) and PPARdelta ( - 13 %) along with an increase in RXRbetagamma (+52 %). Concomitantly, RT-PCR and Western blot analysis revealed (1) a clear reduction in striatal mRNA and protein levels of RC3 ( - 24 and - 26 %, respectively) and GAP-43 ( - 10 and - 42 %, respectively), which was confirmed by in situ hybridisation, and (2) decreased hippocampal RC3 and GAP-43 protein levels (approximately 25 %). Additionally, HFD rats exhibited a significant decrease in plasma ( - 59 %) and brain ( - 6 %) n-3 PUFA content, mainly due to the loss of DHA. These results suggest that dietary fat induces neurobiological alterations by modulating the brain RA signalling pathway and n-3 PUFA content, which have been previously correlated with cognitive impairment.



In humans as in animals, males and females are dissimilar in their genetic and hormonally driven behaviour; they process information differently, perceive experience and emotions in different ways, display diverse attitudes, language and social skills, and show sex-related differences in the brain anatomy and organization. Drug addiction is a widespread relapsing illness that affects both men and women. Sex-dependent differences have been frequently observed in the biological and behavioural effects of substances of abuse, including cannabis. Beside sex differences observed in the cannabinoid-induced effects related to cannabis abuse and dependence, cannabinoids have been shown to exert sex-dependent effects also in other physiological and behavioural aspects, such as food intake and energy balance (more evident in males), or anxiety and depression (more evident in females). Research has just begun to identify factors which could provide a neurobiological basis for gender-based differences in cannabinoid effects, among which, gonadal hormones seem to play a crucial role. Yet, cannabinoid pharmacodynamic and pharmacokinetic may also be important, as sex differences in cannabinoid effects might be due, at least in part, to differences in muscle mass and fat tissue distribution between males and females. Here, we will review both clinical and laboratory-based research evidence revealing important sex-related differences in cannabinoid effects, and put forward some suggestions for future studies to fill the gap in our knowledge of gender-specific bias in cannabinoid pharmacology.
The endogenous cannabinoid system is involved in numerous physiological and neuropsychological functions. Medications that target this system hold promise for the treatment of a wide variety of disorders. However, as reward is one of the most prominent of these functions, medications that activate this system must be evaluated for abuse potential. Meanwhile, cannabis is already being used chronically by millions of people, many of whom eventually seek treatment for cannabis dependence. Therefore, there is a need for procedures that can be used to: (i) better understand the mechanisms of cannabinoid reward; (ii) evaluate the abuse potential of new medications; and (iii) evaluate the effectiveness of medications developed for treating cannabis dependence. Animal models of cannabinoid reward provide a means of accomplishing these goals. In this review, we briefly describe and evaluate these models, their advantages and their shortcomings. Special emphasis is placed on intravenous cannabinoid self-administration in squirrel monkeys, a valid, reliable and flexible model that we have developed over the past decade. Although the conditions under which cannabinoid drugs have rewarding effects may be more restricted than with other drugs of abuse such as cocaine and heroin, work with these models indicates that cannabinoid reward involves similar brain mechanisms and produces the same kinds of reward-related behaviour. By continuing to use these animal models as tools in the development of new medications, it should be possible to take advantage of the potential benefits provided by the endocannabinoid system while minimizing its potential for harm.
Trigeminal neuralgia and sensory disturbance is common in multiple sclerosis (MS). Recent literature suggests that signal abnormalities in the cisternal trigeminal nerve and pontine root entry zone are seen in approximately 3% of MS patients, using conventional diagnostic MRI. The objective of this study was to determine the prevalence of trigeminal lesions using high-resolution MRI at 3T. Forty-seven patients with clinically definite MS, chosen at random from the outpatient population of a neuroscience centre underwent MRI on a Siemens 3T Trio machine. Three 3D sequences of T2 TSE (turbo spin echo), T2 FLAIR (fluid attenuated inversion recovery) and T1 IR (inversion recovery) were acquired in the coronal plane. The sequences were of contiguous 1 mm slices with in-plane resolution of up to 0.5 mm by 0.5 mm. Images were read by both a neurologist and a neuroradiologist. Any clinical history of trigeminal symptoms was determined for all subjects. The results showed that 11 patients (23%) had high signal in the trigeminal root entry zone and either the trans-cisternal nerve or pontine nucleus; example images are given. MRI changes did not correspond to clinical symptoms (chi square probability 1.000). The study concludes that high-resolution MRI at 3T yielded a high prevalence of detectable trigeminal abnormality in the MS sample studied. MRI involvement did not correspond to trigeminal symptoms.
Emotional signals are of pivotal relevance in social interactions. Neuroimaging and lesion studies have established an important role of the amygdala for the processing of these signals. While the human amygdala receives input from all sensory modalities, it is the visual modality that is most important for emotional aspects in social interactions. Consequently, amygdala involvement in visual emotional processing has been unequivocally established, whereas its role in auditory emotional processing is less clear. To investigate amygdala involvement in auditory emotional processing, we used functional magnetic resonance imaging in sighted and connatally blind volunteers, the latter of which lack visual experience during development but have outstanding capabilities to process auditory signals, which are their dominant source of information in social interactions. First, we observed a performance advantage of the connatally blind in auditory discrimination tasks that was paralleled by occipital cortex activation, which was not present in the sighted. More importantly, the blind not only showed robust selective activation in the amygdala to fearful and angry compared to neutral voices but also showed stronger activation to those stimuli than sighted participants. Higher amygdala activity for fearful items was further associated with individual performance in the blind, indicating that amygdala activation in the blind is not only driven by blindness per se but also by inter-individual differences in auditory capabilities. Our results indicate that the responsivity of the amygdala to emotional signals develops even in the absence of visual emotional experience and serves the sensory modality which is the most reliable source of emotional information.
Multiple sclerosis has a variable phenotypic presentation and subsequent disease course that, although unpredictable at disease onset, is of crucial importance in guiding interventions. Effective and accessible biomarkers are required in order to stratify patients and inform treatment. We examined whether the complement regulator factor H and its Tyr402His polymorphism, recently implicated as biomarkers in other chronic inflammatory central nervous system conditions, might identify or predict specific pathological processes and outcomes in multiple sclerosis. Employing novel assays, we measured factor H and its His402 variant in serum from 350 patients with multiple sclerosis classified according to disease course and relapse status. Serum factor H levels were significantly higher in progressive disease (P &lt; 0.001) compared to controls and relapsing patients, after controlling for variables including disease duration, age, gender, disability and treatment. Serum factor H levels were capable of distinguishing secondary progressive from relapsing remitting disease (excluding patients in clinical relapse) with a sensitivity of 89.41%, specificity of 69.47% and a positive predictive value of 72.38%. Acute relapse was also associated with transiently increased factor H levels (P = 0.009) compared to stable relapsing disease. In clinically stable patients, factor H levels remained constant over 1 year (coefficient of variation percentage = 6.8), however, in patients in transition from relapsing to progressive disease, factor H levels significantly increased over a period of 2 years (P = 0.007). Concentration of the His402 variant in heterozytgotes was significantly higher in secondary progressive (P &lt; 0.01) and primary progressive (P &lt; 0.05) disease, suggesting altered expression or consumption of variants when factor H is upregulated. Serum factor H may be an effective indicator of progression and a practical and accessible biomarker and stratifying tool in determining disease course, providing objective evidence to help guide therapeutic decisions.
Sialic acids are terminal sugars of glycolipids and glycoproteins and are involved in several cellular processes. Sialic acid biosynthesis occurs in the cytosol, where UDP-N-acetylglucosamine (GlcNAc) is sequentially converted to N-acetylmannosamine (ManNAc) 6-phosphate by UDP-GlcNAc-2-epimerase/ManNAc kinase enzymes, both of which are encoded by the GNE gene. Since the only existing mouse model of DMRV/hIBM (Gne(-/-)hGNED176VTg) exhibited decreased sialic acid levels in most organs, DMRV/hIBM is thought to be secondary to the metabolic defect in sialic acid production. Theoretically, replenishing sialic acid could be employed as a therapeutic option. It has been reported that N-acetylneuraminic acid (NeuAc) and ManNAc are well incorporated into cells and converted to sialic acid. Thus, we evaluated the efficacy and safety of ManNAc, NeuAc, and sialyllactose in the Gne(-/-)hGNED176VTg, by orally administering these agents to mice from 5-15 weeks continuously until they reached 54-57 weeks of age. The treatment showed beneficial effects in terms of survival rate, overall motor performance, myofiber size, ex vivo skeletal muscle contractile properties, and pathology. These low-dose compounds showed acceptable kidney and liver toxicity profiles. Thus our results show that the oral therapy with NeuAc and ManNAc or their derivatives is safe and effective in preventing myopathic symptoms in Gne(-/-)hGNED176VTg mice, and could be considered as a guide for further therapeutic trials.
Ischemic cerebral small-vessel disease is a common disorder in the elderly. However, little is known about the molecular basis of ischemic cerebral small-vessel disease. We recently found that mutations in the HtrA serine peptidase 1 (HTRA1) gene cause cerebral autosomal recessive arteriopathy with subcortical infarcts and leukoencephalopathy (CARASIL). CARASIL is characterized by nonhypertensive cerebral small-vessel arteriopathy with alopecia and spondylosis. On neuropathologic examination, arteriosclerosis associated with intimal thickening and dense collagen fibers, loss of vascular smooth muscle cells, and hyaline degeneration of the media are observed in cerebral small arteries. These pathologic findings resemble those observed in patients with nonhereditary ischemic cerebral small-vessel disease. HTRA1 belongs to the HTRA protein family, the members of which have dual activities as chaperones and serine proteases. Studies have shown that members of the HTRA family repress transforming growth factor-Beta (TGF-Beta) family signaling. We found that CARASIL-associated mutant HTRA1s exhibited decreased protease activity and failed to repress TGF-Beta family signaling. Moreover, the amount of TGF-Beta1 was increased in the cerebral small arteries of CARASIL patients. In addition, the level of expression of ED-A fibronectin and versican, which is induced by TGF-Beta signaling, were accumulated in cerebral small arterial walls of a patient with CARASIL. Thus, we have concluded that the increased TGF-Beta signaling causes arteriopathy in CARASIL.
This paper reviews the role of the insula in drug craving. Evidence is presented that drug craving may be a particular instance of the anterior insula's broader role in interoception and subjective feeling states similar, for example, to thirst and hunger. An important role for the insula in craving is supported by evidence of insular activity changing with satiety and with the top-down cognitive modulation of cravings. Cognitive processes involving the insula's role in awareness of one's own behaviour may also contribute to craving insofar as the avoidance of craving might require subjective awareness of the endogenous and exogenous cues that initiate it. Finally, some consideration is given to sex differences and developmental processes in craving.
The human insular cortex is involved in a variety of viscerosensory, visceromotor, and interoceptive functions, and plays a role in complex processes such as emotions, music, and language. Across mammals, the insula has considerable morphologic variability. We review the structure and connectivity of the insula in laboratory animals (mouse, domestic cat, macaque monkey), and we present original data on the morphology and cytoarchitecture of insular cortex in less common species including a large carnivore (the Atlantic walrus, Odobenus rosmarus), two artiodactyls (the pigmy hippopotamus, Hexaprotodon liberiensis, and the Western bongo, Tragelaphus eurycerus), two cetaceans (the beluga whale, Delphinapterus leucas, and the minke whale, Balaenoptera acutorostrata), and a sirenian (the Florida manatee, Trichechus manatus latirostris). The insula shows substantial variability in shape, extent, and gyral and sulcal patterns, as well as differences in laminar organization, cellular specialization, and structural association with the claustrum. Our observations reveal that the insular cortex is extremely variable among mammals. These differences could be related to the role exerted by specific and selective pressures on cortical structure during evolution. We conclude that it is not possible to identify a general model of organization for the mammalian insular cortex.
Cognitive neuroscience research has begun to reveal the functional neuroanatomy of intentional action. This research has primarily pointed to the role of the medial frontal cortex for the voluntary control of behaviour. However, a closer inspection of the literature reveals that the anterior insular cortex (AIC) is also routinely activated in tasks that involve different aspects of intentional action. In the present article, we outline studies that have found AIC activation in various intentional action paradigms. Based on these findings, we discuss two hypotheses about the AIC's contribution to voluntary control. One hypothesis states that AIC is involved in forming intentions, by providing information about the internal states of the system. The alternative view suggests that AIC evaluates the outcomes of intentional action decisions that have been previously formed elsewhere. The limited evidence so far favours the evaluative hypothesis. AIC may provide interoceptive signals that play an essential role in evaluating the consequences of intentional action. AIC is therefore a key structure for the adaptive, affective training of the individual will, on which human society depends.

Functional neuroimaging investigations in the fields of social neuroscience and neuroeconomics indicate that the anterior insular cortex (AI) is consistently involved in empathy, compassion, and interpersonal phenomena such as fairness and cooperation. These findings suggest that AI plays an important role in social emotions, hereby defined as affective states that arise when we interact with other people and that depend on the social context. After we link the role of AI in social emotions to interoceptive awareness and the representation of current global emotional states, we will present a model suggesting that AI is not only involved in representing current states, but also in predicting emotional states relevant to the self and others. This model also proposes that AI enables us to learn about emotional states as well as about the uncertainty attached to events, and implies that AI plays a dominant role in decision making in complex and uncertain environments. Our review further highlights that dorsal and ventro-central, as well as anterior and posterior subdivisions of AI potentially subserve different functions and guide different aspects of behavioral regulation. We conclude with a section summarizing different routes to understanding other people's actions, feelings and thoughts, emphasizing the notion that the predominant role of AI involves understanding others' feeling and bodily states rather than their action intentions or abstract beliefs.
We investigated which evoked response component occurring in the first 800 ms after stimulus presentation was most suitable to be used in a classical P300-based brain-computer interface speller protocol. Data was acquired from 275 Magnetoencephalographic sensors in two subjects and from 61 Electroencephalographic sensors in four. To better characterize the evoked physiological responses and minimize the effect of response overlap, a 1000 ms Inter Stimulus Interval was preferred to the short (&lt;400 ms) trial length traditionally used in this class of BCIs. To investigate which scalp regions conveyed information suitable for BCI, a stepwise linear discriminant analysis classifier was used. The method iteratively analyzed each individual sensor and determined its performance indicators. These were then plotted on a 2-D topographic head map. Preliminary results for both EEG and MEG data suggest that components other than the P300 maximally represented in the occipital region, could be successfully used to improve classification accuracy and finally drive this class of BCIs.
Progress in functional neuroimaging of the brain increasingly relies on the integration of data from complementary imaging modalities in order to improve spatiotemporal resolution and interpretability. However, the usefulness of merely statistical combinations is limited, since neural signal sources differ between modalities and are related non-trivially. We demonstrate here that a mean field model of brain activity can simultaneously predict EEG and fMRI BOLD with proper signal generation and expression. Simulations are shown using a realistic head model based on structural MRI, which includes both dense short-range background connectivity and long-range specific connectivity between brain regions. The distribution of modeled neural masses is comparable to the spatial resolution of fMRI BOLD, and the temporal resolution of the modeled dynamics, importantly including activity conduction, matches the fastest known EEG phenomena. The creation of a cortical mean field model with anatomically sound geometry, extensive connectivity, and proper signal expression is an important first step towards the model-based integration of multimodal neuroimages.
MEG interictal spikes as recorded in epilepsy patients are a reflection of intracranial interictal activity. This study investigates the relationship between the estimated sources of MEG spikes and the location, distribution and size of interictal spikes in the invasive ECoG of a group of 38 epilepsy patients that are monitored for pre-surgical evaluation. An amplitude/surface area measure is defined to quantify and rank ECoG spikes. It is found that all MEG spikes are associated with an ECoG spike that is among the three highest ranked in a patient. Among the different brain regions considered, the fronto-orbital, inter-hemispheric, tempero-lateral and central regions stand out. In an accompanying simulation study it is shown that for hypothesized extended sources of larger sizes, as suggested by the data, source location, orientation and curvature can partly explain the observed sensitivity of MEG for interictal spikes.



Marked hemodynamic changes occur in humans and experimental animals with cirrhotic liver disease. In the heart, basal contractility, responsiveness to beta-adrenoceptor activation, and excitation-contraction coupling (ECC) are negatively affected in models of cirrhosis and portal hypertension with portosystemic shunting (PVS), and comprise what has been called cirrhotic cardiomyopathy. These effects are accompanied by elevated circulating levels of bile acids. We investigated whether elevated bile acids act as a myocardial toxicant by exposing cardiac muscle in vitro to bile acids and compared these results with two models of cirrhotic cardiomyopathy with elevated bile acids: CCl4-induced cirrhosis and PVS. Cholic acid, a lipophilic bile acid, produced a decrease in basal cardiac contractility and responsiveness to beta-adrenoceptor activation, both of which appeared to result from altered ECC. beta-Adrenoceptor density and signaling were unaffected. Acutely, ursodeoxycholic acid, a more hydrophilic bile acid, had no effect. Cirrhosis produced a decrease in basal force, depressed beta-adrenoceptor responsiveness, and altered ECC similar to cholic acid. However, cirrhosis also altered beta-adrenoceptor signaling including decreases in cyclic AMP formation, expression of the stimulatory G protein, GS, and beta-adrenoceptor density. Displacement of lipophilic bile acids by chronic administration of ursodeoxycholic acid to rats during the development of cirrhotic cardiomyopathy produced by PVS produced attenuation of the effect on ECC. These results suggest a possible role for lipophilic bile acids in some, but not all of the myocardial consequences of chronic portal vein stenosis and CCl4-induced cirrhosis.
Quick cytosolic calcium clearance is essential for the effective modulation of various cellular functions. An excess of cytosolic calcium after influx is largely removed via ATP-dependent mechanisms located in the plasma membrane and the endoplasmic reticulum. Therefore, calcium clearance depends critically on the adequate supply of ATP, which may come from either glycolysis or mitochondria, or both. However, it presently remains unknown the degree to which individual ATP generating pathways - glycolysis and mitochondria power ATP-dependent calcium as well as other vital ion clearance mechanisms in neurons. In this study, we explored the relationship between the energy generating pathways and ion clearance mechanisms in neurons by characterizing the effects of glycolytic and mitochondrial inhibitors of ATP synthesis on calcium clearance kinetics in the soma, dendrites and spines. Stimulation of cultured cerebellar granule cells by brief pulses of 60mM potassium ACSF, and electrical stimulation of purkinje cells in acutely prepared slices led to a transient calcium influx, whose clearance was largely mediated by the plasma membrane Ca(2+)-ATPase pump. Inhibition of glycolysis by deoxyglucose or iodoacetic acid resulted in a marked slowing in calcium clearance in the soma, dendrites, and spines with the spines affected the most. However, inhibition of the mitochondrial citric acid cycle with fluoroacetate and arsenite, or mitochondrial ATP synthase with oligomycin did not produce any immediate effects on calcium clearance kinetics in any of those neuronal regions. Although cytosolic calcium clearance was not affected by the inhibition of mitochondria, the magnitude of the calcium clearance delay induced by glycolytic inhibitors in different neuronal compartments was related to their mitochondrial density. Conversely, the endoplasmic reticulum Ca(2+)-ATPase pump activity is fuelled by both glycolytic and mitochondrial ATP, as evidenced by a minimal change in the endoplasmic reticulum calcium contents in cells treated with either deoxyglucose supplemented with lactate or arsenite. Taken together, these data suggest that calcium clearance in cerebellar granule and purkinje cells relies on the plasma membrane Ca(2+)-ATPase, and is powered by glycolysis.
Fibroblast adhesion can be modulated by proteins released by neuroendocrine cells and neurons, such as chromogranin A (CgA) and its N-terminal fragment vasostatin-1 (VS-1, CgA(1-78)). We have investigated the mechanisms of the interaction of VS-1 with fibroblasts and of its pro-adhesive activity and have found that the proadhesive activity of VS-1 relies on its interaction with the fibroblast membrane via a phospholipid-binding amphipathic alpha-helix located within residues 47-66, as well as on the interaction of the adjacent C-terminal region 67-78, which is structurally similar to ezrin-radixin-moesin-binding phosphoprotein 50 (a membrane-cytoskeleton adapter protein), with other cellular components critical for the regulation of cell cytoskeleton.
Overproduction of free radicals can damage cellular components resulting in progressive physiological dysfunction, which has been implicated in many human diseases. Oxidative damage to RNA received little attention until the past decade. Recent studies indicate that RNA, such as messenger RNA and ribosomal RNA, is very vulnerable to oxidative damage. RNA oxidation is not a consequence of dying cells but an early event involved in pathogenesis. Oxidative modification to RNA results in disturbance of the translational process and impairment of protein synthesis, which can cause cell deterioration or even cell death. In this review, we discuss the mechanisms of oxidative damage to RNA and the possible biological consequences of damaged RNA. Furthermore, we review recent evidence suggesting that oxidative damage to RNA may contribute to progression of many human diseases.
Macroautophagy is an evolutionarily conserved lysosomal-dependent pathway of degradation of several cytoplasmic components, such as misfolded proteins or damaged organelles. This process of cellular self-digestion is involved in a number of physiological processes like survival, differentiation and development. The failure in the normal flow of the autophagic process has been associated with normal brain aging and with late-onset neurodegenerative diseases, including Alzheimer's, Parkinson's and Huntington's diseases. A common characteristic between these disorders is the accumulation of protein deposits composed by aberrant protein aggregates. Also dysfunctional organelles, particularly mitochondria, have been implicated in the pathophysiology of several neurodegenerative diseases. Here we give an overview of the importance of autophagy in brain aging and in age-related neurodegeneration. Furthermore, we will discuss autophagy as a potential therapeutic target to mitigate the adverse effects of aging and age-related diseases on brain function.

The impact of having left-handers (LHs) among one's close relatives, called familial sinistrality (FS), on neuroanatomical markers of left-hemisphere language specialization was studied in 274 normal adults, including 199 men and 75 women, among whom 77 men and 27 women were positive for FS. Measurements of the surface of a phonological cortical area, the &quot;planum temporale&quot; (PT), and gray and white matter hemispheric volumes and asymmetries were made using brain magnetic resonance images. The size of the left PT of subjects with left-handed close relatives (FS+) was reduced by 10%, decreasing with the number of left-handed relatives, and lowest when the subject's mother was left-handed. Such findings had no counterparts in the right hemisphere, and the subject's handedness and sex were found to have no significant effect or interaction with FS on the left PT size. The FS+ subjects also exhibited increased gray matter volume, reduced hemispheric gray matter leftward asymmetry, and, in LHs, reduced strength of hand preference. These results add to the increasing body of evidence suggesting multiple and somewhat independent mechanisms for the inheritance of hand and language lateralization.
Neocortical pyramidal cells are characterized by markedly different structure among cortical areas in the mature brain. In the ventral visual pathway of adult primates, pyramidal cells become increasingly more branched and more spinous with anterior progression through the primary (V1), second (V2), and fourth (V4) visual areas and cytoarchitectonic areas TEO and TE. It is not known how these regional specializations in neuron structure develop. Here, we report that the basal dendritic trees of layer III pyramidal cells in V1, V2, V4, TEO, and TE were characterized by unique growth profiles. Different numbers of spines were grown in the dendritic trees of cells among these cortical areas and then subsequently pruned. In V1, V2, and V4, more spines were pruned than grew resulting in a net decrease in the number of spines in the dendritic trees following the onset of visual experience. In TEO and TE, neurons grew more spines than they pruned from visual onset to adulthood. These data suggest that visual experience may influence neuronal maturation in different ways in different cortical areas.
The autosomal dominant spinocerebellar ataxias (SCAs) are a group of progressive neurodegenerative diseases characterised by loss of balance and motor coordination due to the primary dysfunction of the cerebellum. To date, more than 30 genes have been identified triggering the well-described clinical and pathological phenotype, but the underlying cellular and molecular events are still poorly understood. Studies of the functions of the proteins implicated in SCAs and the corresponding altered cellular pathways point to major aetiological roles for defects in transcriptional regulation, protein aggregation and clearance, alterations of calcium homeostasis, and activation of pro-apoptotic routes among others, all leading to synaptic neurotransmission deficits, spinocerebellar dysfunction, and, ultimately, neuronal demise. However, more mechanistic and detailed insights are emerging on these molecular routes. The growing understanding of how dysregulation of these pathways trigger the onset of symptoms and mediate disease progression is leading to the identification of conserved molecular targets influencing the critical pathways in pathogenesis that will serve as effective therapeutic strategies in vivo, which may prove beneficial in the treatment of SCAs. Herein, we review the latest evidence for the proposed cellular and molecular processes to the pathogenesis of dominantly inherited spinocerebellar ataxias and the ongoing therapeutic strategies.

Biological rhythms are frequently disturbed with advancing age, and aging-related changes of glia in the hypothalamic suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN), the master circadian pacemaker, require special attention. In particular, astrocytes contribute to SCN function, and aging is associated with increased inflammatory activity in the brain, in which microglia could be especially implicated. On this basis, we investigated in the SCN of young and old mice glial transcripts and cell features, and the glial cell response to a central inflammatory challenge. Quantitative real-time reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) was used to analyze the expression of mRNAs encoding the astrocytic glial fibrillary acidic protein and the microglial antigen CD11b. Both these transcripts, here investigated in the SCN for the first time, were significantly increased in the old SCN. Glial cell phenotyping with immunohistochemistry revealed hypertrophic and intensely stained astrocytes and microglia in the aged SCN. In both age groups, microglia were scattered throughout the SCN and astrocytes were prominent in the ventral portion, where retinal fibers are densest; in the aged SCN, astrocytes were also numerous in the dorsal portion. After intracerebroventricular injections of a mixture of interferon-gamma and tumor necrosis factor-alpha, or phosphate-buffered saline as control, immunolabeling was evaluated with stereological cell counts and confocal microscopy. Phenotypic features of astrocyte and microglia activation in response to cytokine injections were markedly enhanced in the aged SCN. Subregional variations in glial cell density were also documented in the aged compared to the young SCN. Altogether, the findings show increases in the expression of glial transcripts and hypertrophy of astrocytes and microglia in the aged SCN, as well as age-dependent variation in the responses of immune-challenged SCN glia. The data thus point out an involvement of glia in aging-related changes of the biological clock.


In this phase I study, we assessed the safety and feasibility of intravenous, autologous bone marrow (BM) cell therapy, without immunosuppressive preconditioning, in six patients with clinically definite, relapsing-progressive multiple sclerosis (MS). Assessment of efficacy was a secondary objective and employed clinical disability rating scales, multimodal evoked potential (MMEP) recordings, and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) scans. Cells were harvested, filtered and infused intravenously in a day-case procedure that was well tolerated by patients and was not associated with any serious adverse events (AEs). Over a period of 12 months after the therapy, clinical disability scores showed either no change (Extended Disability Status Score, EDSS) or improvement (MS impact scale-29, MSIS-29), and MMEPs showed neurophysiological improvement. MRI scans did not show any significant changes over a post-therapy period of 3 months. The lack of serious adverse effects and the suggestion of a beneficial effect in this small sample of patients with progressive disease justify conducting a larger phase II/III study to make a fuller assessment of the efficacy of mobilization of autologous BM in patients with MS.


The interaction between serotonin (5-HT) and dopamine (DA)-containing neurons in the brain is a research topic that has raised the interest of many scientists working in the field of neuroscience since the first demonstration of the presence of monoamine-containing neurons in the mid 1960. The bulk of neuroanatomical data available clearly indicate that DA-containing neurons in the brain receive a prominent innervation from serotonin (5-hydroxytryptamine, 5-HT) originating in the raphe nuclei of the brainstem. Compelling electrophysiological and neurochemical data show that 5-HT can exert complex effects on the activity of midbrain DA neurons mediated by its various receptor subtypes. The main control seems to be inhibitory, this effect being more marked in the mesocorticolimbic DA system as compared to the DA nigrostriatal system. In spite of a direct effect of 5-HT by its receptors located on DA cells, 5-HT can modulate their activity indirectly, modifying gamma-aminobutyric (GABA)-ergic and glutamatergic input to the ventral tegmental area (VTA) and substantia nigra pars compacta (SNc). Although 5-HT/DA interaction in the brain has been extensively studied, much work remains to be done to clarify this issue. The recent development of subtype-selective ligands for 5-HT receptors will not only allow a detailed understanding of this interaction but also will lead to the development of new treatment strategies, appropriate for those neuropsychiatric disorders in which an alteration of the 5-HT/DA balance is supposed.
Dopamine is an important neuromodulator that exerts widespread effects on the central nervous system (CNS) function. Disruption in dopaminergic neurotransmission can have profound effects on mood and behavior and as such is known to be implicated in various neuropsychiatric behavioral disorders including autism and depression. The subsequent effects on other neurocircuitries due to dysregulated dopamine function have yet to be fully explored. Due to the marked social deficits observed in psychiatric patients, the neuropeptide, oxytocin is emerging as one particular neural substrate that may be influenced by the altered dopamine levels subserving neuropathologic-related behavioral diseases. Oxytocin has a substantial role in social attachment, affiliation and sexual behavior. More recently, it has emerged that disturbances in peripheral and central oxytocin levels have been detected in some patients with dopamine-dependent disorders. Thus, oxytocin is proposed to be a key neural substrate that interacts with central dopamine systems. In addition to psychosocial improvement, oxytocin has recently been implicated in mediating mesolimbic dopamine pathways during drug addiction and withdrawal. This bi-directional role of dopamine has also been implicated during some components of sexual behavior. This review will discuss evidence for the existence dopamine/oxytocin positive interaction in social behavioral paradigms and associated disorders such as sexual dysfunction, autism, addiction, anorexia/bulimia, and depression. Preliminary findings suggest that whilst further rigorous testing has to be conducted to establish a dopamine/oxytocin link in human disorders, animal models seem to indicate the existence of broad and integrated brain circuits where dopamine and oxytocin interactions at least in part mediate socio-affiliative behaviors. A profound disruption to these pathways is likely to underpin associated behavioral disorders. Central oxytocin pathways may serve as a potential therapeutic target to improve mood and socio-affiliative behaviors in patients with profound social deficits and/or drug addiction.
Adenosine-dopamine interactions in the central nervous system (CNS) have been studied for many years in view of their relevance for disorders of the CNS and their treatments. The discovery of adenosine and dopamine receptor containing receptor mosaics (RM, higher-order receptor heteromers) in the striatum opened up a new understanding of these interactions. Initial findings indicated the existence of A(2A)R-D(2)R heterodimers and A(1)R-D(1)R heterodimers in the striatum that were followed by indications for the existence of striatal A(2A)R-D(3)R and A(2A)R-D(4)R heterodimers. Of particular interest was the demonstration that antagonistic allosteric A(2A)-D(2) and A(1)-D(1) receptor-receptor interactions take place in striatal A(2A)R-D(2)R and A(1)R-D(1)R heteromers. As a consequence, additional characterization of these heterodimers led to new aspects on the pathophysiology of Parkinson's disease (PD), schizophrenia, drug addiction, and l-DOPA-induced dyskinesias relevant for their treatments. In fact, A(2A)R antagonists were introduced in the symptomatic treatment of PD in view of the discovery of the antagonistic A(2A)R-D(2)R interaction in the dorsal striatum that leads to reduced D(2)R recognition and G(i/o) coupling in striato-pallidal GABAergic neurons. In recent years, indications have been obtained that A(2A)R-D(2)R and A(1)R-D(1)R heteromers do not exist as heterodimers, rather as RM. In fact, A(2A)-CB(1)-D(2) RM and A(2A)-D(2)-mGlu(5) RM have been discovered using a sequential BRET-FRET technique and by using the BRET technique in combination with bimolecular fluorescence complementation. Thus, other pathogenic mechanisms beside the well-known alterations in the release and/or decoding of dopamine in the basal ganglia and limbic system are involved in PD, schizophrenia and drug addiction. In fact, alterations in the stoichiometry and/or topology of A(2A)-CB(1)-D(2) and A(2A)-D(2)-mGlu5 RM may play a role. Thus, the integrative receptor-receptor interactions in these RM give novel aspects on the pathophysiology and treatment strategies, based on combined treatments, for PD, schizophrenia, and drug addiction.
Morphine biosynthesis in relatively simple and complex integrated animal systems has been demonstrated. Key enzymes in the biosynthetic pathway have also been identified, that is, CYP2D6 and COMT. Endogenous morphine appears to exert highly selective actions via novel mu opiate receptor subtypes, that is, mu3,-4, which are coupled to constitutive nitric oxide release, exerting general yet specific down regulatory actions in various animal tissues. The pivotal role of dopamine as a chemical intermediate in the morphine biosynthetic pathway in plants establishes a functional basis for its expansion into an essential role as the progenitor catecholamine signaling molecule underlying neural and neuroendocrine transmission across diverse animal phyla. In invertebrate neural systems, dopamine serves as the preeminent catecholamine signaling molecule, with the emergence and limited utilization of norepinephrine in newly defined adaptational chemical circuits required by a rapidly expanding set of physiological demands, that is, motor and motivational networks. In vertebrates epinephrine, emerges as the major end of the catecholamine synthetic pathway consistent with a newly incorporated regulatory modification. Given the striking similarities between the enzymatic steps in the morphine biosynthetic pathway and those driving the evolutionary adaptation of catecholamine chemical species to accommodate an expansion of interactive but distinct signaling systems, it is our overall contention that the evolutionary emergence of catecholamine systems required conservation and selective &quot;retrofit&quot; of specific enzyme activities, that is, COMT, drawn from cellular morphine expression. Our compelling hypothesis promises to initiate the reexamination of clinical studies, adding new information and treatment modalities in biomedicine.
The clinical value of the current Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders diagnosis of adjustment disorder is controversial. The aim of this article is to review the literature on adjustment disorder and to present suggestions for the improvement of this diagnostic category in future classification systems. The literature utilized for this review was retrieved by MEDLINE (1967 until May 2009) and was supplemented by a manual search of the literature. The analysis of the literature indicates that the diagnosis of adjustment disorder is not characterized by consistent clinical description and prognosis, adequate differentiation from other disorders, or specific psychometric and neurobiologic features. The spectrum of affective disturbances entailed by the diagnosis of adjustment disorder appears to be too broad. A major problem seems to lie in the fact that it is an exclusion diagnosis that overlaps with subthreshold manifestations of mood and anxiety disorders. More precise characterizations of stress-related disturbances are available.




A central issue in cognitive neuroscience is which cortical areas are involved in managing information processing in a cognitive task and to understand their temporal interactions. Since the transfer of information in the form of electrical activity from one cortical region will in turn evoke electrical activity in other regions, the analysis of temporal synchronization provides a tool to understand neuronal information processing between cortical regions. We adopt a method for revealing time-dependent functional connectivity. We apply statistical analyses of phases to recover the information flow and the functional connectivity between cortical regions for high temporal resolution data. We further develop an evaluation method for these techniques based on two kinds of model networks. These networks consist of coupled Rssler attractors or of coupled stochastic Ornstein-Uhlenbeck systems. The implemented time-dependent coupling includes uni- and bi-directional connectivities as well as time delayed feedback. The synchronization dynamics of these networks are analyzed using the mean phase coherence, based on averaging over phase-differences, and the general synchronization index. The latter is based on the Shannon entropy. The combination of these with a parametric time delay forms the basis of a connectivity pattern, which includes the temporal and time lagged dynamics of the synchronization between two sources. We model and discuss potential artifacts. We find that the general phase measures are remarkably stable. They produce highly comparable results for stochastic and periodic systems. Moreover, the methods proves useful for identifying brief periods of phase coupling and delays. Therefore, we propose that the method is useful as a basis for generating potential functional connective models.
How is the meaning of a word retrieved without interference from recently viewed words? The ROUSE theory of priming assumes a discounting process to reduce source confusion between subsequently presented words. As applied to semantic satiation, this theory predicted a loss of association between the lexical item and meaning. Four experiments tested this explanation in a speeded category-matching task. All experiments used lists of 20 trials that presented a cue word for 1s followed by a target word. Randomly mixed across the list, 10 trials used cues drawn from the same category whereas the other 10 trials used cues from 10 other categories. In Experiments 1a and 1b, the cues were repeated category labels (FRUIT-APPLE) and responses gradually slowed for the repeated category. In Experiment 2, the cues were nonrepeated exemplars (PEAR-APPLE) and responses remained faster for the repeated category. In Experiment 3, the cues were repeated exemplars in a word matching task (APPLE-APPLE) and responses again remained faster for the repeated category.
We examine Dubois's (2003) distinction between weak anticipation and strong anticipation. Anticipation is weak if it arises from a model of the system via internal simulations. Anticipation is strong if it arises from the system itself via lawful regularities embedded in the system's ordinary mode of functioning. The assumption of weak anticipation dominates cognitive science and neuroscience and in particular the study of perception and action. The assumption of strong anticipation, however, seems to be required by anticipation's ubiquity. It is, for example, characteristic of homeostatic processes at the level of the organism, organs, and cells. We develop the formal distinction between strong and weak anticipation by elaboration of anticipating synchronization, a phenomenon arising from time delays in appropriately coupled dynamical systems. The elaboration is conducted in respect to (a) strictly physical systems, (b) the defining features of circadian rhythms, often viewed as paradigmatic of biological behavior based in internal models, (c) Pavlovian learning, and (d) forward models in motor control. We identify the common thread of strongly anticipatory systems and argue for its significance in furthering understanding of notions such as &quot;internal&quot;, &quot;model&quot; and &quot;prediction&quot;.

Dienes and Seth (2010) conclude that confidence ratings and post-decision wagering are two comparable and recommendable measures of conscious experience. In a recently submitted paper, we have however found that both methods are problematic and seem less suited to measure consciousness than a direct introspective measure. Here, we discuss the methodology and conclusions put forward by Dienes and Seth, and why we think the two experiments end up with so different recommendations.



We recently demonstrated that poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase (PARP)-1 is involved in angiogenesis and tumour aggressiveness. In this study we have compared the influence of abrogation of PARP-1 expression by stable gene silencing to that of the pharmacological inhibition of cellular PARP activity using PARP-1/-2 inhibitors on the chemosensitivity of tumour cells to the wide spectrum methylating agent temozolomide (TMZ) and to the N3-adenine selective methylating agent {1-methyl-4-[1-methyl-4-(3-methoxysulfonylpropanamido)pyrrole-2-carboxamido]-pyrrole-2-carboxamido}propane (Me-Lex). Silencing of PARP-1 in melanoma or cervical carcinoma lines enhanced in vitro sensitivity to TMZ and Me- Lex, and induced a higher level of cell accumulation at the G2/M phase of cell cycle with respect to controls. GPI 15427, which inhibits both PARP-1 and PARP-2, increased sensitivity to TMZ and Me-Lex both in PARP-1-proficient and - deficient cells. However, it induced different cell cycle modulations depending on PARP-1 expression, provoking a G2/M arrest only in PARP-1 silenced cells. Treatment of PARP-1 silenced cells with TMZ or Me-Lex resulted in a more extensive phosphorylation of Chk-1 and p53 as compared to PARP-1 proficient cells. The combination of the methylating agents with GPI 15427 increased Chk-1 and p53 phosphorylation both in PARP-1 proficient or deficient cells. When mice challenged with PARP-1 silenced melanoma cells were treated with the TMZ and PARP inhibitor combination there was an additional reduction in tumour growth with respect to treatment with TMZ alone. These results suggest the involvement of PARP-2 or other PARPs, in the repair of DNA damage provoked by methylating agents, highlighting the importance of targeting both PARP-1 and PARP-2 for cancer therapy.
Alzheimer's disease (AD) represents the most common form of dementia in the elderly, characterized by progressive loss of memory and cognitive capacity severe enough to interfere with daily functioning and the quality of life. Rare, fully penetrant mutations in three genes (APP, PSEN1 and PSEN2) are responsible for familial forms of the disease. However, more than 90% of AD is sporadic, likely resulting from complex interactions between genetic and environmental factors. Increasing evidence supports a role for epigenetic modifications in AD pathogenesis. Folate metabolism, also known as one-carbon metabolism, is required for the production of S-adenosylmethionine (SAM), which is the major DNA methylating agent. AD individuals are characterized by decreased plasma folate values, as well as increased plasma homocysteine (Hcy) levels, and there is indication of impaired SAM levels in AD brains. Polymorphisms of genes participating in one-carbon metabolism have been associated with AD risk and/or with increased Hcy levels in AD individuals. Studies in rodents suggest that early life exposure to neurotoxicants or dietary restriction of folate and other B vitamins result in epigenetic modifications of AD related genes in the animal brains. Similarly, studies performed on human neuronal cell cultures revealed that folate and other B vitamins deprivation from the media resulted in epigenetic modification of the PSEN1 gene. There is also evidence of epigenetic modifications in the DNA extracted from blood and brains of AD subjects. Here I review one-carbon metabolism in AD, with emphasis on possible epigenetic consequences.

How the activity of sensory neurons elicits perceptions and guides behavior is central to our understanding of the brain and is a subject of intense investigation in neuroscience. Correlations between the activity of sensory neurons and behavior have been widely observed and are sometimes used to infer how neurons are used to guide a certain behavior. This view is challenged firstly by theoretical considerations that these correlations rely on the existence of correlated noise and its structure, and secondly by recent empirical observations suggesting that such correlated noise is not a fixed network property but that it depends on various sources, and varies with a subject's mental state.

Biology provides examples of efficient machines which greatly outperform conventional technology. Designers in neuromorphic engineering aim to construct electronic systems with the same efficient style of computation. This task requires a melding of novel engineering principles with knowledge gleaned from neuroscience. We discuss recent progress in realizing neuromorphic sensory systems which mimic the biological retina and cochlea, and subsequent sensor processing. The main trends are the increasing number of sensors and sensory systems that communicate through asynchronous digital signals analogous to neural spikes; the improved performance and usability of these sensors; and novel sensory processing methods which capitalize on the timing of spikes from these sensors. Experiments using these sensors can impact how we think the brain processes sensory information.
Normal sensory experience rarely presents us with isolated bars, gratings, or other stimuli that have shaped our knowledge of sensory representations. Instead, typical input adheres to certain statistical regularities, which make it 'natural' and cannot be adequately modeled by linear superposition of simple stimuli. Natural stimuli necessitate a paradigm shift with a focus on downstream processing. This shift currently follows three main lines: quantification of the information a downstream area can read out (decoding); describing a representation as the optimization of computational principles with respect to natural input (normative approach); understanding the sensory representation as optimal for the systems' tasks and intended actions (behavioral context). The interaction between representational levels, intermediate-level features, and bidirectional coupling through attention are key elements for sensory processing.
Activity in cortical networks is heterogeneous, sparse and often precisely timed. The functional significance of sparseness and precise spike timing is debated, but our understanding of the developmental and synaptic mechanisms that shape neuronal discharge patterns has improved. Evidence for highly specialized, selective and abstract cortical response properties is accumulating. Singe-cell stimulation experiments demonstrate a high sensitivity of cortical networks to the action potentials of some, but not all, single neurons. It is unclear how this sensitivity of cortical networks to small perturbations comes about and whether it is a generic property of cortex. The unforeseen sensitivity to cortical spikes puts serious constraints on the nature of neural coding schemes.
Acoustic communication in flies is based on the production and perception of courtship song. Drosophila males sing to females during the courtship ritual, while females listen for the correct species-specific song parameters before deciding to mate. While we know that song is important for mating, the neural mechanisms involved in song recognition remain mysterious. However, the last few years have seen major advances in our understanding of the auditory system of Drosophila, including delineation of the neurons involved in song production, detailed characterization of the auditory receptor organ, and mapping of auditory projections into the brain. The stage is being set to tackle the auditory system of Drosophila in much the same way as has been done for its olfactory system. This review covers recent work and discusses prospects for future research on Drosophila audition.
The whisker somatosensory system in awake, behaving rodents is a powerful model for studying neurobiology of sensation, from molecules to circuits to behavior. Recent studies reveal how key tactile features are detected in awake animals and encoded by spike trains in somatosensory cortex (S1). Here we summarize progress on detection of surface texture (roughness). Texture appears to be inferred from the statistics of complex, irregular whisker micromotion on surfaces, specifically by mean speed or by patterns of discrete, high-velocity whisker slips. These are encoded in S1 by mean firing rate and by sparse, synchronous, slip-evoked spike volleys, respectively. An alternative model of place coding for texture based on differential whisker resonance is less well supported, but is not ruled out.
Spatial and temporal activity patterns of olfactory bulb projection neurons underlie the initial representations of odors in the brain. However, olfactory perception ultimately requires the integration of olfactory bulb output in higher cortical brain regions. Recent studies reveal that odor representations are sparse and highly distributed in the rodent primary olfactory (piriform) cortex. Furthermore, odor-evoked inhibition is far more widespread and broadly tuned than excitation in piriform cortex pyramidal cells. Other recent studies highlight how olfactory sensory inputs are integrated within pyramidal cell dendrites and that feedback projections from piriform cortex to olfactory bulb interneurons are a source of synaptic plasticity.






Based on unique clinicopathological criteria, the most common immune inflammatory muscle disorders include Dermatomyositis (DM), Polymyositis (PM), Necrotizing Myositis (NM), and sporadic Inclusion Body Myositis (sIBM). DM is an undeniably a complement-mediated microangiopathy with destruction of capillaries, hypoperfusion, and inflammatory cell stress on the perifascicular regions. Necrotizing Myopathy is a poorly studied subacute myopathy triggered by toxic, viral, or autoimmune factors with macrophages as the final effector cells. In PM and IBM cytotoxic CD8-positive T-cells clonally expand in situ and invade MHC-I-expressing muscle fibers. In sIBM, in addition to autoimmune inflammation, there are degenerative features characterized by vacuolization and accumulation of stressor and amyloid-related molecules. Advances in the immunobiology of these disorders are discussed including the interaction between pro-inflammatory and beta-amyloid or stressor proteins. A critical review regarding tissue biomarkers and strategies for more effective treatments are presented.
The recognition of a series of metabolic/enzymatic dysfunction in metabolic myopathies has allowed new therapeutic advances. The most recent ones are enzymatic replacement therapy (ERT) in glycogenosis type II in both the infantile, juvenile and the adult forms, targeted manipulation of diet that has been tried in glycogenosis type II (Pompe disease), type V (McArdle's disease), and in Carnitine palmitoyl transferase 2 (CPT 2) deficiency, a rare disorder of fatty acid oxidation. A well known hypolipidemic drug, bezafibrate, has been tested to stimulate expression of mutated gene for CPT 2, but it may represent a challenge for a series of other fatty acid mitochondrial disorders to restore the capacity for normal long-chain fatty oxidation in muscle. The present review summarizes the most recent clinical achievements that have achieved the interest for an accurate and early diagnosis of these metabolic disorders.
Migraine patients often report intolerance to odours. Migraineurs report odours may trigger attacks, that they experience osmophobia during attacks, and olfactory hypersensitivity between attacks. In this paper we discuss olfactory mechanisms in migraine. We also present data from a pilot questionnaire study in a group of young women diagnosed with migraine. The study results confirm that hypersensitivity to odour is a common feature in women with migraine. Migraine pathophysiology likely explains this particular vulnerability. We discuss these pathophysiologic mechanisms and hypotheses relating odour intolerances and migraine.
Numerous mechanisms are implicated in the perception of pain. Although many anatomical, molecular, and functional components have been identified, a comprehensive and integrated theory of pain perception has yet to be firmly established that fits the diverse clinical experience. Acute pain involves the activation of several varieties of small primary sensory neurons, collectively termed nociceptors, which have small-caliber unmyelinated or myelinated axons (C and Adelta fibers, respectively) that innervate all body tissues. They are stimulated by noxious stimuli that activate ion channels on the endings either directly or through the release of cytokines from damaged or stressed tissues. A variety of drugs successfully treats acute pain by targeting these ion channels or cytokine interactions. Paradoxically, several chronic neuropathic pain conditions are associated with a loss of small-caliber axons and have an unpredictable and poor response to current drugs, especially at doses that do not cause severe side effects. In an attempt to further an integrated theory of pain perception, this review focuses upon the presumed role of small-caliber innervation, particularly to the epidermis and cutaneous vasculature, and the clinical manifestations, diagnosis, and treatment of pathologies of this innervation.
Central neuropathic pain is common in multiple sclerosis (MS), and its prevalence increases with physical disability. Sufficient evidence links dysesthetic pain, trigeminal neuralgia, Lhermitte's sign, and painful tonics spasms to plaque formation in the spinal cord and brain, whereas the association with headache and back pain remains unclear. Management varies according to the pain in question. For dysesthetic pain, drugs in use for neuropathic pain in general are recommended as first-line treatment, and emerging evidence suggests some benefit from cannabinoids and levetiracetam. Because of unique characteristics of MS-related trigeminal neuralgia, ganglion and root level neuroablative procedures are worth considering before microvascular decompression. Overall, the lack of controlled clinical trials, together with our limited understanding of the pathophysiological mechanisms involved, form a hindrance to a systematic and rational management of MS-related pain.
Autism spectrum disorder (ASD) as defined by the revised Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders: DSM IVTR criteria (American Psychiatric Association [2000] Washington, DC: American Psychiatric Publishing) as impairment before the age of 3 in language development and socialization with the development of repetitive behaviors, appears to be increased in incidence and prevalence. Similarly, mitochondrial disorders are increasingly recognized. Although overlap between these disorders is to be expected, accumulating clinical, genetic, and biochemical evidence suggests that mitochondrial dysfunction in ASD is more commonly seen than expected. Some patients with ASD phenotypes clearly have genetic-based primary mitochondrial disease. This review will examine the data linking autism and mitochondria.
Mller cells in the chick retina are generally thought to be a homogeneous population. We show that the transcription factor Pax2 is expressed by Mller cells in the central chick retina and its expression was first observed at stage 32 (embryonic day [E] 7.5). Birth-dating indicated that the majority of Pax2-positive Mller cells are generated between stage 29 and 33 (E5.5-E8). At stage 42 (E16), several Mller cell markers, such as Sox2 and 2M6, had reached the peripheral retina, while the Pax2 labeling extended approximately half-way. A similar pattern was maintained in the 6-month-old chicken. Neither the Pax2-positive nor the Pax2-negative Mller cells could be specifically associated to proliferative responses in the retina induced by growth factors or N-methyl-D-aspartate. Pax2 was not detected in Mller cells in mouse, rat, guinea-pig, rabbit, or pig retinas; but the zebrafish retina displayed a similar pattern of central Pax2-expressing Mller cells.
Paroxysmal exercise-induced dystonia (PED) is one of the rarer forms of paroxysmal dyskinesia, and can occur in sporadic or familial forms. We report a family (male index case, mother and maternal grandfather) with autosomal dominant inheritance of paroxysmal exercise-induced dystonia. The dystonia began in childhood and was only ever induced after many minutes of exercise, and was never present at rest, or on initiation of movements. In addition, family members suffered restless legs syndrome (RLS), depression, and adult-onset Parkinsonism. The index case had low cerebrospinal fluid neurotransmitters and pterins. The PED and RLS stopped on initiation of L-Dopa therapy. Both live family members were found to have a nonsense mutation (p.E84X) in exon 1 of the GTP-cyclohydrolase 1 (GCH-1) gene. We propose that GCH-1 mutations should be considered a genetic cause of familial PED, especially if additional clinical features of monoaminergic deficiency are present in affected individuals.
A screen for zebrafish motor mutants identified two noncomplementing alleles of a recessive mutation that were named non-active (nav(mi89) and nav(mi130)). nav embryos displayed diminished spontaneous and touch-evoked escape behaviors during the first 3 days of development. Genetic mapping identified the gene encoding Na(V)1.6a (scn8aa) as a potential candidate for nav. Subsequent cloning of scn8aa from the two alleles of nav uncovered two missense mutations in Na(V)1.6a that eliminated channel activity when assayed heterologously. Furthermore, the injection of RNA encoding wild-type scn8aa rescued the nav mutant phenotype indicating that scn8aa was the causative gene of nav. In-vivo electrophysiological analysis of the touch-evoked escape circuit indicated that voltage-dependent inward current was decreased in mechanosensory neurons in mutants, but they were able to fire action potentials. Furthermore, tactile stimulation of mutants activated some neurons downstream of mechanosensory neurons but failed to activate the swim locomotor circuit in accord with the behavioral response of initial escape contractions but no swimming. Thus, mutant mechanosensory neurons appeared to respond to tactile stimulation but failed to initiate swimming. Interestingly fictive swimming could be initiated pharmacologically suggesting that a swim circuit was present in mutants. These results suggested that Na(V)1.6a was required for touch-induced activation of the swim locomotor network.



The present study was designed to extend to the newly synthesized rac-BHFF [(R,S)-5,7-di-tert-butyl-3-hydroxy-3-trifluoromethyl-3H-benzofuran-2-one] the investigation on the capacity of positive allosteric modulators of the GABA(B) receptor to reduce alcohol self-administration in rats. To this end, selectively bred Sardinian alcohol-preferring (sP) rats were initially trained to respond on a lever [on a fixed ratio 4 (FR4) schedule of reinforcement] to orally self-administer alcohol (15%, v/v) or sucrose (0.7%, w/v) in daily 30-min sessions. Once responding reached stable levels, the effect of rac-BHFF (0, 50, 100, and 200mg/kg; i.g.) on responding for alcohol and sucrose was determined. Pretreatment with rac-BHFF produced a dose-dependent suppression in responding for alcohol; reduction in the total number of responses for alcohol, in comparison to vehicle-treated rats, averaged approximately 30%, 65%, and 90% in 50, 100, and 200mg/kg rac-BHFF-treated rats, respectively. Pretreatment with 200mg/kg rac-BHFF markedly increased the latency to the first response on the alcohol lever. The effect of pretreatment with rac-BHFF on alcohol self-administration was highly specific, since (a) responding for sucrose was reduced (to approximately 50%, in comparison to vehicle-treated rats) only by pretreatment with 200mg/kg rac-BHFF, and (b) latency to the first response on the sucrose lever was completely unaltered by any rac-BHFF dose. Treatment with rac-BHFF did not alter spontaneous locomotor activity in an independent group of sP rats. The present data constitute a further piece of evidence on the capacity of positive allosteric modulators of the GABA(B) receptor to reduce alcohol's reinforcing properties in rats.


Participants listened to randomly selected excerpts of popular music and rated how nostalgic each song made them feel. Nostalgia was stronger to the extent that a song was autobiographically salient, arousing, familiar, and elicited a greater number of positive, negative, and mixed emotions. These effects were moderated by individual differences (nostalgia proneness, mood state, dimensions of the Affective Neurosciences Personality Scale, and factors of the Big Five Inventory). Nostalgia proneness predicted stronger nostalgic experiences, even after controlling for other individual difference measures. Nostalgia proneness was predicted by the Sadness dimension of the Affective Neurosciences Personality Scale and Neuroticism of the Big Five Inventory. Nostalgia was associated with both joy and sadness, whereas nonnostalgic and nonautobiographical experiences were associated with irritation.
This case concerns a patient with generalized neurosarcoidosis and pharmacoresistant focal epilepsy. Although immunosuppressive therapy resulted in remission of the neurosarcoidosis, seizures continued and were shown to originate from the right temporal lobe (TL). The patient underwent a right anterior temporal lobe resection (TLR) and obtained &gt;90% reduction of seizure frequency.

Brain stimulation with low-frequency stimulation (LFS) is emerging as an alternative treatment for refractory epilepsy. The present study aimed to investigate the effects of LFS targeting the hippocampal CA3 subfield in different modes on amygdala-kindled seizures in Sprague-Dawley rats. When fully kindled seizures were achieved by daily electrical stimulation of the amygdala, LFS (15 min train of 0.1 ms pulses at 1 Hz and 100 microA) of the CA3 was applied in several modes. Post-treatment with LFS significantly reduced the severity of and susceptibility to evoked seizures, whereas pre-treatment with LFS resulted in a similar but much weaker inhibition of seizures. Interestingly, prior consecutive daily application of LFS in the absence of kindling stimulation did not reduce subsequent evoked seizures, but abolished the anti-epileptic effect of post-treatment. These results indicated that LFS of the CA3 is able to reduce kindled seizures in a mode-dependent manner without cumulative feature. The hippocampal CA3 subfield could be considered as a potential target for epilepsy treatment using LFS, and should be delivered in an appropriate stimulation mode.




Stress exposure resulted in brain induction of immediate-early genes (IEGs), considered as markers of neuronal activation. Upon repeated exposure to the same stressor, reduction of IEG response (adaptation) has been often observed, but there are important discrepancies in literature that may be in part related to the particular IEG and methodology used. We studied the differential pattern of adaptation of the IEGs c-fos and arc (activity-regulated cytoskeleton-associated protein) after repeated exposure to a severe stressor: immobilization on wooden boards (IMO). Rats repeatedly exposed to IMO showed reduced c-fos mRNA levels in response to acute IMO in most brain areas studied: the medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC), lateral septum (LS), medial amygdala (MeA), paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus (PVN) and locus coeruleus. In contrast, the number of neurons showing Fos-like immunoreactivity was only reduced in the MeA and the various subregions of the PVN. IMO-induced increases in arc gene expression were restricted to telencephalic regions and reduced by repeated IMO only in the mPFC. Double-labelling in the LS of IMO-exposed rats revealed that arc was expressed in only one-third of Fos+ neurons, suggesting two populations of Fos+ neurons. These data suggest that c-fos mRNA levels are more affected by repeated IMO than corresponding protein, and that arc gene expression does not reflect adaptation in most brain regions, which may be related to its constitutive expression. Therefore, the choice of a particular IEG and the method of measurement are important for proper interpretation of the impact of chronic repeated stress on brain activation.
In primary visual cortex (V1) neurons, a stimulus placed in the extraclassical receptive field suppresses the response to a stimulus within the classical receptive field (CRF), a phenomenon referred to as surround suppression. The aim of the present study was to elucidate the mechanisms of surround suppression in V1. Using stationary-flashed sinusoidal grating as stimuli, we observed temporal changes of surround suppression in V1 and the lateral geniculate nucleus (LGN) and of the response to CRF stimulation in V1. The spatial frequency (SF) tuning of surround suppression in V1 neurons changed over time after the stimulus onset. In the early phase (&lt; 50 ms), the SF tuning was low-pass, but later became band-pass that tuned to the optimal SF in response to CRF stimulation. On the other hand, the SF tuning of CRF responses in V1 was band-pass throughout the response time whereas the SF peak shifted slightly toward high SF. Thus, SF tuning properties of the CRF response dissociated from that of surround suppression in V1 only in the early phase. We also confirmed that the temporal changes of the SF tuning of surround suppression in the LGN occurred in the same direction as surround suppression in V1, but the shift from low-pass to band-pass SF tuning started later than that in V1. From these results, we suggest that subcortical mechanisms contribute to early surround suppression in V1, whereas cortical mechanisms contribute to late surround suppression.
In mammals the development of the visual system may be altered during a sensitive period by modifying the visual input to one or both eyes. These plastic processes are reduced after the end of the sensitive period. It has been proposed that reduced levels of plasticity are at the basis of the lack of recovery from early visual deprivation observed in adult animals. A developmental downregulation of experience-dependent regulation of histone acetylation has recently been found to be involved in closing the sensitive period. Therefore, we tested whether pharmacological epigenetic treatments increasing histone acetylation could be used to reverse visual acuity deficits induced by long-term monocular deprivation initiated during the sensitive period. We found that chronic intraperitoneal administration of valproic acid or sodium butyrate (two different histone deacetylases inhibitors) to long-term monocularly deprived adult rats coupled with reverse lid-suturing caused a complete recovery of visual acuity, tested electrophysiologically and behaviorally. Thus, manipulations of the epigenetic machinery can be used to promote functional recovery from early alterations of sensory input in the adult cortex.
Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis is a degenerative disease affecting the motor neurons. In spite of our growing insights into its biology, it remains a lethal condition. The identification of the cause of several of the familial forms of ALS allowed generation of models to study this disease both in vitro and in vivo. Here, we summarize what is known about the pathogenic mechanisms of ALS induced by hereditary mutations, and attempt to identify the relevance of these findings for understanding the pathogenic mechanisms of the sporadic form of this disease.
The Ca(2+)-binding proteins (CBPs) calbindin D28k, calretinin and parvalbumin are phenotypic markers of functionally diverse subclasses of neurons in the adult brain. The developmental dynamics of CBP expression are precisely timed: calbindin and calretinin are present in prospective cortical interneurons from mid-gestation, while parvalbumin only becomes expressed during the early postnatal period in rodents. Secretagogin (scgn) is a CBP cloned from pancreatic beta and neuroendocrine cells. We hypothesized that scgn may be expressed by particular neuronal contingents during prenatal development of the mammalian telencephalon. We find that scgn is expressed in neurons transiting in the subpallial differentiation zone by embryonic day (E)11 in mouse. From E12, scgn(+) cells commute towards the extended amygdala and colonize the bed nucleus of stria terminalis, the interstitial nucleus of the posterior limb of the anterior commissure, the dorsal substantia innominata (SI) and the central and medial amygdaloid nuclei. Scgn(+) neurons can acquire a cholinergic phenotype in the SI or differentiate into GABA cells in the central amygdala. We also uncover phylogenetic differences in scgn expression as this CBP defines not only neurons destined to the extended amygdala but also cholinergic projection cells and cortical pyramidal cells in the fetal nonhuman primate and human brains, respectively. Overall, our findings emphasize the developmentally shared origins of neurons populating the extended amygdala, and suggest that secretagogin can be relevant to the generation of functional modalities in specific neuronal circuitries.

Despite the widespread use of mice as models of Parkinson's disease there is a surprising lack of validation and characterisation of unilateral lesion models in mice and the extent of behavioural impairments induced by such lesions. The aim of the present study was to characterise the behavioural deficits observed after injection of 6-hydroxydopamine unilaterally into the substantia nigra, and correlate the behavioural impairments with the extent of damage to the mesostriatal dopaminergic pathway. We found that a recently introduced test for assessment of sensorimotor impairment, the corridor task, was particularly useful in determining lesion severity, and that this test, in combination with standard drug-induced rotation tests, can be used to select animals with profound (&gt; or = 80%) dopaminergic lesions that are stable over time. Based on these data we propose criteria that can be used to predict the extent of lesion, classified as severe, intermediate or mild lesions of the mesostriatal pathway. The correlation of cell loss and striatal innervation with the performance in each test provides a useful tool for the assessment of functional recovery in neurorestoration and cell transplantation studies, and for the evaluation of the in vivo efficacy and performance of stem cell-derived dopamine neuron preparations.
A large body of evidence indicates that pigeons use olfactory cues to navigate over unfamiliar areas with a differential contribution of the left and right hemispheres. In particular, the right nostril/olfactory bulb (OB) and left piriform cortex (Cpi) have been demonstrated to be crucially involved in navigation. In this study we analysed behaviour-induced activation of the olfactory system, indicated by the expression of the immediate early gene ZENK, under different homing conditions. One experimental group was released from an unfamiliar site, the second group was transported to the unfamiliar site and back to the loft, and the third group was released in front of the loft. To evaluate the differential contribution of the left and/or right olfactory input, the nostrils of the pigeons were either occluded unilaterally or not. Released pigeons revealed the highest ZENK cell density in the OB and Cpi, indicating that the olfactory system is activated during navigation from an unfamiliar site. The groups with no plug showed the highest ZENK cell density, supporting the activation of the olfactory system probably being due to sensory input. Moreover, both Cpis seem to contribute differently to the navigation process. Only occlusion of the right OB resulted in a decreased ZENK cell expression in the Cpi, whereas occlusion of the left nostril had no effect. This is the first study to reveal neuronal activation patterns in the olfactory system during homing. Our data show that lateralized processing of olfactory cues is indeed involved in navigation over unfamiliar areas.
Memory reconsolidation is the process by which memories, destabilised at retrieval, require restabilisation to persist in the brain. It has been demonstrated that even old, well-established memories require reconsolidation following retrieval; therefore, memory reconsolidation could potentially be exploited to disrupt, or even erase, aberrant memories that underlie psychiatric disorders, thereby providing a novel therapeutic target. Drug addiction is one such disorder; it is both chronic and relapsing, and one prominent risk factor for a relapse episode is the presentation of environmental cues that have previously been associated with drugs of abuse. This 'cue-induced relapse' can be accounted for in psychological terms by reinforcing memories of the pavlovian association between the cue and the drug, which can thus influence behaviour through at least three psychologically and neurobiologically dissociable mechanisms: conditioned reinforcement, conditioned approach and conditioned motivation. As each of these psychological processes could contribute to the resumption of drug-seeking following abstinence, it is important to develop treatments that can reduce drug-seeking re-established via influences on each or all of these pavlovian processes, in order to minimise the risk of a subsequent relapse. Investigation of the memory reconsolidation mechanisms of the memories underlying conditioned reinforcement, conditioned approach and conditioned motivation indicate that they depend upon different neurochemical systems, including the glutamatergic and adrenergic systems within limbic corticostriatal circuitry. We also discuss here the subsequent translation to the clinic of this preclinical work.
A key question in the neurobiology of reward relates to the nature of coding. Rewards are objects that are advantageous or necessary for the survival of individuals in a variety of environmental situations. Thus reward appears to depend on the individual and its environment. The question arises whether neuronal systems in humans and monkeys code reward in subjective terms, objective terms or both. The present review addresses this issue by dealing with two important reward processes, namely the individual discounting of reward value across temporal delays, and the processing of information about risky rewards that depends on individual risk attitudes. The subjective value of rewards decreases with the temporal distance to the reward. In experiments using neurophysiology and brain imaging, dopamine neurons and striatal systems discount reward value across temporal delays of a few seconds, despite unchanged objective reward value, suggesting subjective value coding. The subjective values of risky outcomes depend on the risk attitude of individual decision makers; these values decrease for risk-avoiders and increase for risk-seekers. The signal for risk and the signal for the value of risky reward covary with individual risk attitudes in regions of the human prefrontal cortex, suggesting subjective rather than objective coding of risk and risky value. These data demonstrate that important parameters of reward are coded in a subjective manner in key reward structures of the brain. However, these data do not rule out that other neurons or brain structures may code reward according to its objective value and risk.

Despite the size, burden and costs of anxiety disorders, many patients remain unrecognised, and the effectiveness of evidence-based interventions in routine clinical practice can be disappointing. The European College of Neuropsychopharmacology (ECNP) has established the ECNP Network Initiative (ECNP-NI) to help meet the goal of extending current understanding of the causes of central nervous system disorders, thereby contributing to improvements in clinical outcomes and reducing the associated societal burden. The Anxiety Disorders Research Network (ADRN) has been adopted within the ECNP-NI: this consensus statement summarises its overall aims and objectives.
This is the first study to examine concurrently cortical thickness and voxel-based morphometric (VBM) abnormalities in patients with major depressive disorder (MDD). In the current study we set out to investigate depressed elderly patients to determine whether a previous depression is related to neurobiological abnormalities in older age. Cortical thickness measures and VBM were applied to the same magnetic resonance imaging data set of 28 female elderly subjects with MDD and 38 age-matched control subjects. Two principal findings emerge from this study. First, no effect of illness on cortical thickness or gray matter density measurements was found. Moreover, life time depression, severity of illness and the number of depressive episodes were not associated with neurobiological abnormalities in older age in our patient group. Second, a diffuse pattern of highly significant age effects was found in cortical thickness as well as in the VBM measurements in the same areas, irrespective of diagnosis. In contrast to most findings of the literature to date, the results from this study indicate that lifetime depression as well as current state does not seem to influence brain structure in depressed female elderly.
We aimed to get a comprehensive insight into the genetic evidence supporting the role of GSK3beta in bipolar disorder (BD). Using broad searches in NCBI's PubMed and the Genetic Association Database we looked for association, whole-genome linkage, genome-wide association, gene expression, pharmocogenomic, epigenetic, cytogenetic, and mouse model studies performed for BD until July 2009. Per gene, we rated the degree of converging evidence across these types of genetic studies. The genes most consistently associated with BD in the genetic studies we reviewed were GSK3beta , GRK3, 5-HTTLPR, GRIN3, COMT, and GLUR3. GSK3beta stood out as it was implicated in at least five types of genetic studies. Although our results are limited by design differences of included studies and possibly by publication bias, GSK3beta is a plausible candidate gene for BD from a pharmacological and a genetic perspective. Future studies investigating the effects of GSK3beta manipulation in BD seem warranted.
In summary, genetics, as well as foetal and early life environmental factors shape the size or capacity of our monoamine systems, of which the serotonergic one might play a leading role. Those constitutional properties then form the biological basis for personality traits, such as impulsiveness and &quot;sensation seeking&quot;, which interact with psychosocial settings and life events to form a pattern of reactivity to a current life event or psychosocial situation, shown as a high or low order of magnitude of gene-environment interaction. In the present paper emphasis is put on the role of genotypes of the serotonin transporter, of monoamine oxidases A and B, and of platelet monoamine oxidase B activity, which all have been shown to be of importance for behaviour and with obvious effects of interactions with environment. Under unfortunate circumstances constitutional properties might be strong enough to result in vulnerability for suicide, even with a modest influence of environment.
The negative effects of excessive alcohol use include dependence, psychiatric co-morbidity and increased risk for suicide. A dominating risk factor is heritage. A large number of studies have addressed the genetic basis, either &quot;candidate genes&quot; in the brain reward system, or searched for unknown genes in family studies by linkage analysis. It is clear that no single gene polymorphism is of use in preventive medicine. A consistent finding, however, is that polymorphism in the alcohol dehydrogenase cluster and other metabolic pathways are of some relevance on a population basis, suggesting a link between alcohol toxicity in general and dependence. An emerging concern is potential gender differences as women, who are generally more sensitive, acquire male drinking habits.
Warm-needling (also called thermo-acupuncture) is a combination of acupuncture and moxibustion. Due to the intense heat involved, there have been concerns over the biological safety of the acuneedles used in the treatment. This paper reports two phases of a safety test. For a preliminary test, we compared the temperature change patterns of stainless steel (SS304) needles and traditional gold alloy needles, which have been increasingly replaced by the former. To verify the effects of the presence of coating materials, the main test involved three different kinds of SS304: silicone-coated, salicylic acid-coated and non-coated needles. Each group of needles was tested for pH level, heavy metals and UV absorbance spectrum along with biological tests on the cytotoxicity and hemolysis of the needle. All the tests on the extractants from the needles were negative. In the biological tests, each test result showed a significant difference from the positive control samples, while no significant difference was observed compared with the negative control samples. In the hemolysis tests, all samples satisfied the Korean Government Standards. All the results suggest that SS304 needles are biologically safe to be used in warm-needling, though they can be improved to perform as well as the gold alloy needles in terms of temperature fluctuations.
The anti-saccade task (AST) is widely used in experimental, clinical, and neuroscience research as a pronounced test of executive functions. AST research includes to some extent also the investigation into its cognitive correlates. In the present study, we have examined cognitive correlates of the AST in the short-term/working memory, executive functions, and intelligence domains in healthy adults. We have obtained the following results. In line with previous research, the global percentage of direction errors PDE comprised of two only negligibly correlated components, direction errors with express or regular latencies. Substantial correlations with the other cognitive measures were obtained only for regular direction errors and, less so, for the global PDE. Results add to the evidence that distinguishes express and regular direction errors and underline that the complex requirements of the AST are reflected in a comparatively rich set of non-redundant parameters.
We examined the influence of attentional focus and cognitive load on motor performance in a dynamic stick balancing task during the maintenance of upright posture. Dynamical analyses of postural fluctuations revealed the existence of a drift and correct mechanism, with correlational structure reflecting the demands of the stick balancing task. In contrast, experimentally manipulated attentional foci (internal, external) did not influence the variability of postural or fingertip trajectories. However, dual-task cognitive stick balancing performance resulted in decreased variability of postural and fingertip time series. These results are discussed in the context of dual timescale models for posture control and stick balancing.
This research examined the roles played by the ventromedial orbital prefrontal cortex (OPFC) and the infralimbic/prelimbic prefrontal cortex (I/P PFC) during discriminative fear conditioning. The first experiment included nine rats with bilateral lesions to the I/P PFC, an additional nine with OPFC lesions, and eight sham lesion controls. Behavioural analysis was conducted using a discriminative fear conditioning to context task 10 days after surgery. Results indicate that lesions to ventromedial orbital prefrontal cortex result in generalized fear and impaired extinction. In contrast, infralimbic/prelimbic cortical lesioned animals exhibit appropriate fear response patterns and extinction, but show a specific impairment in spontaneous recovery. To ascertain why I/P PFC lesion rats did not exhibit spontaneous recovery, a second experiment was conducted. All procedures in the second experiment were identical to the first except a decay period was employed in place of extinction training. Results from the second experiment indicate that the difficulty retrieving the extinguished association is related to extinction processes and not decay. Taken together, these findings suggest that OPFC and I/P PFC have distinct roles in associative processes necessary for discriminative fear conditioning, extinction, and spontaneous recovery. These results further implicate OPFC and I/P PFC in the pathology underlying generalized anxiety disorder.
A widely held theory dating back to Donald Hebb posits neuronal attractor dynamics to underlie the retrieval of objects from long-term memory and the categorization of ambiguous stimuli, but empirical support for this notion had so far pointed more at self-sustained activity than at attractor dynamics per se. Complex perceptual effects modulating memory retrieval, including priming effects, are compatible with both attractor dynamics and alternative hypotheses, which seem to result in opposite predictions at the neuronal level. Recent recordings in monkeys indicate that attractor dynamics may indeed be observed, as it unfolds in time over a few hundred milliseconds, if neurons are probed in infero-temporal cortex during the categorization of ambiguous visual stimuli. Extending the analysis of such phenomena promises to take us beyond the perceptual periphery, where neuronal responses are still largely determined by sensory stimuli. Understanding the nature of transitions between attractor states opens the door to higher-level thought processes.
Basal sleepiness-alertness modulates drug effects. Sleepiness produced by sleep restriction leads to increased nociceptive sensitivity, suggesting opioid analgesia may also be modulated by sleepiness-alertness. This study compared thermal nociceptive sensitivity in sleepy versus nonsleepy participants after codeine or placebo. Twelve healthy normal adults, 18 to 35 years of age, had an 8-hr nocturnal polysomnogram (NPSG) followed by a Multiple Sleep Latency Test (MSLT; Carskadon and Dement, 1987). All had sleep efficiencies &gt; 80% on their NPSG; 6 had average MSLT &gt;or= 8 min (nonsleepy group) and 6 had latencies &lt; 8 min (sleepy group). Participants were assessed following 8-hr time-in-bed with standard MSLT, and nociceptive assessments (using a radiant heat stimulation method) were conducted the following day with codeine 30 mg b.i.d. (0900 and 1300) or placebo b.i.d. Finger withdrawal latency (FWL) in seconds was measured to 5 different heat intensities randomly presented to the index finger pad of each hand. Mean +/- 1 SD MSLT values in the sleepy group were 4.72 +/- 1.83 min and 13.04 +/- 4.90 min in the nonsleepy group. As hypothesized, increased FWL (decreased nociception) was observed with lower heat intensities, codeine, and in the nonsleepy group. More important, there was a Group x Drug interaction with codeine increasing FWL in the nonsleepy, but not the sleepy, group. These data show the analgesic effects of codeine are diminished in sleepy versus nonsleepy individuals. They suggest clinical differences in response to analgesics are partly explained by basal state of sleepiness-alertness.
The initiation and progression of several forms of retinal degenerations involve excessive, repetitive, and/or sustained oxidative stress that, in turn, mediate photoreceptor cell damage and death. Since phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (PI3K)/Akt and mTOR/p70S6-kinase pathways are part of survival signaling in cells confronted with oxidative stress, we asked whether or not docosahexaenoic acid-derived neuroprotectin D1 (NPD1) mediates survival upon single-dose and/or repetitive oxidative stress through this pathway. For this purpose, we used human retinal pigment epithelial (ARPE-19) cells challenged by exposure to hydrogen peroxide (H(2)O(2)) plus tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF-alpha). We found that in single-dose oxidative stress-induced apoptosis, phosphorylation of Akt, mTOR, and p70S6K was both time- and dose- dependent. Inhibition of PI3K or mTOR/p70S6K by wortmannin and rapamycin, respectively, increased apoptosis and inhibited phosphorylation of Akt and p70S6K induced by single-dose oxidative stress. While two exposures of a low dose, non-damaging oxidation induced apoptosis and upregulation of Akt, mTOR, and p70S6K, longer treatment of the cells with three exposures of low dose to low-dose stress showed no changes in the levels of Akt, mTOR, or p70S6K, and resulted in enhanced apoptosis compared to higher doses. Removing the oxidative stress-inducing agents following the single-dose or short term repetitive oxidative stress at the peak of Akt, mTOR, and p70S6K phosphorylation (i.e., 30 min after induction) led to recovery, with no apoptosis after 16 h of incubation. Cells that were induced with three low doses of stress did not show recovery when oxidative stress was removed 30 min after the last exposure. NPD1 protected the RPE cells against both single-dose and repetitive oxidative stress-induced apoptosis and promoted higher levels of phosphorylated Akt, mTOR, and p70S6K. Together, our results show that a) repetitive oxidative stress is dose dependent and may not be recovered by removing the oxidative stress-inducing agents, b) PI3K/Akt and mTOR/p70S6K pathways play a major role in the protection against oxidative stress-induced apoptosis in ARPE-19 cells, and c) NPD1 exerts protection under these conditions by inducing PI3K/Akt and mTOR/p70S6K pathways.
Chronic intermittent hypoxia (CIH) is a frequent concomitant of sleep apnea, which can increase sympathetic nerve activity through mechanisms involving chemoreceptor inputs to the commissural nucleus of the solitary tract (cNTS). These chemosensory inputs co-store glutamate and substance P (SP), an endogenous ligand for neurokinin-1 (NK(1)) receptors. Acute hypoxia results in internalization of NK(1) receptors, suggesting that CIH also may affect the subcellular distribution of NK(1) receptors in subpopulations of cNTS neurons, some of which may express tyrosine hydroxylase, the rate-limiting enzyme for catecholamine synthesis (TH). To test this hypothesis, we examined dual immunolabeling for the NK(1) receptor and TH in the cNTS of male mice subjected to 10days or 35days of CIH or intermittent air. Electron microscopy revealed that NK(1) receptors and TH were almost exclusively localized within separate somatodendritic profiles in cNTS of control mice. In dendrites, immunogold particles identifying NK(1) receptors were prevalent in the cytoplasm and on the plasmalemmal surface. Compared with controls, CIH produced a significant region-specific decrease in the cytoplasmic (10 and 35days, P&lt;0.05, unpaired Student t-test) and extrasynaptic plasmalemmal (35days, P&lt;0.01, unpaired Student t-test) density of NK(1) immunogold particles exclusively in small (&lt;0.1microm) dendrites without TH immunoreactivity. These results suggest that CIH produces a duration-dependent reduction in the availability of NK(1) receptors preferentially in small dendrites of non-catecholaminergic neurons in the cNTS. The implications of our findings are discussed with respect to their potential involvement in the slowly developing hypertension seen in sleep apnea patients.
Bortezomib, a proteasome inhibitor, is an antineoplastic drug to treat multiple myeloma and mantle cell lymphoma. Its most clinically significant adverse event is peripheral sensory neuropathy. Our objective was to characterize the neuropathy induced by bortezomib in a mouse model. Two groups were used; one group received vehicle solution and another bortezomib (1mg/kg/twice/week) for 6weeks (total dose as human schedule). Tests were performed during treatment and for 4weeks post dosing to evaluate electrophysiological, autonomic, pain sensibility and sensory-motor function changes. At the end of treatment and after washout, sciatic and tibial nerves, dorsal ganglia and intraepidermal innervation were analyzed. Bortezomib induced progressive significant decrease of sensory action potential amplitude, mild reduction of sensory velocities without effect in motor conductions. Moreover, it significantly increased pain threshold and sensory-motor impairment at 6weeks. According to these data, histopathological findings shown a mild reduction of myelinated (-10%; p=0.001) and unmyelinated fibers (-27%; p=0.04), mostly involving large and C fibers, with abnormal vesicular inclusion body in unmyelinated axons. Neurons were also involved as shown by immunohistochemical phenotypic switch. After washout, partial recovery was observed in functional, electrophysiological and histological analyses. These results suggest that axon and myelin changes might be secondary to an initial dysfunctional neuronopathy.
The number of neurons in the ventrobasal thalamus (VB) in the adolescent rat is unaffected by prenatal exposure to ethanol. This is in sharp contrast to other parts of the trigeminal-somatosensory system, which exhibit 30-35% fewer neurons after prenatal ethanol exposure. The present study tested the hypothesis that prenatal ethanol exposure affects dynamic changes in the numbers of VB neurons; such changes reflect the sum of cell proliferation and death. Neuronal number in the VB was determined during the first postnatal month in the offspring of pregnant Long-Evans rats fed an ethanol-containing diet or pair-fed an isocaloric non-alcoholic liquid diet. Offspring were examined between postnatal day (P) 1 and P30. The size of the VB and neuronal number were determined stereologically. Prenatal exposure to ethanol did not significantly alter neuronal number on any individual day, nor was the prenatal generation of VB neurons affected. Interestingly, prenatal ethanol exposure did affect the pattern of the change in neuronal number over time; total neuronal number was stable in the ethanol-treated pups after P12, but it continued to rise in the controls until P21. In addition, the rate of cell proliferation during the postnatal period was greater in ethanol-treated animals. Thus, the rate of neuronal acquisition is altered by ethanol, and by deduction, there appears to be less ethanol-induced neuronal loss in the VB. A contributor to these changes is a latent effect of ethanol on postnatal neurogenesis in the VB and the apparent survival of new neurons.
One important aspect of recovery and repair after spinal cord injury (SCI) lies in the complex cellular interactions at the injury site that leads to the formation of a lesion scar. EphA4, a promiscuous member of the EphA family of repulsive axon guidance receptors, is expressed by multiple cell types in the injured spinal cord, including astrocytes and neurons. We hypothesized that EphA4 contributes to aspects of cell-cell interactions at the injury site after SCI, thus modulating the formation of the astroglial-fibrotic scar. To test this hypothesis, we studied tissue responses to a thoracic dorsal hemisection SCI in an EphA4 mutant mouse line. We found that EphA4 expression, as assessed by beta-galactosidase reporter gene activity, is associated primarily with astrocytes in the spinal cord, neurons in the cerebral cortex and, to a lesser extent, spinal neurons, before and after SCI. However, we did not observe any overt reduction of glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) expression in the injured area of EphA4 mutants in comparison with controls following SCI. Furthermore, there was no evident disruption of the fibrotic scar, and the boundary between reactive astrocytes and meningeal fibroblasts appeared unaltered in the mutants, as were lesion size, neuronal survival and inflammation marker expression. Thus, genetic deletion of EphA4 does not significantly alter the astroglial response or the formation of the astroglial-fibrotic scar following a dorsal hemisection SCI in mice. In contrast to what has been proposed, these data do not support a major role for EphA4 in reactive astrogliosis following SCI.
Sympathetic neurons, like sensory neurons, increase neurite outgrowth after a conditioning lesion. Studies in leukemia inhibitory factor (LIF) knockout animals showed that the conditioning lesion effect in sensory neurons is dependent in part on this cytokine; however, similar studies on sympathetic neurons revealed no such effect. Comparable studies with sensory neurons taken from mice lacking the related cytokine interleukin-6 (IL-6) have yielded conflicting results. LIF and IL-6 belong to a family of cytokines known as the gp130 family because they act on receptors containing the subunit gp130. In sympathetic ganglia, axotomy leads to increases in mRNA for four of these cytokines (LIF, IL-6, IL-11, and oncostatin M). To test the role of this family of cytokines as a whole in the conditioning lesion response in sympathetic neurons, mice in which gp130 was selectively eliminated in noradrenergic neurons were studied. The postganglionic axons of the SCG were transected, and 7days later the ganglia were removed and neurite outgrowth was measured in explant and dissociated cell cultures. In both systems, neurons from wild type animals showed enhanced growth after a conditioning lesion. In contrast, no enhancement occurred in neurons from mutant animals. This lack of stimulation of outgrowth occurred despite an increase in expression of activating transcription factor 3 (ATF3) in the mutant mice. These studies demonstrate that stimulation of enhanced growth of sympathetic neurons after a conditioning lesion is dependent on gp130 cytokine signaling and is blocked in the absence of signaling by these cytokines in spite of an increase in ATF3.
The human fetal ventral mesencephalon-derived stem cell line, hVM1, yields high number of tyrosine hydroxylase-expressing presumed dopaminergic neurons upon in vitro differentiation. Here we report that cells generated from this line differentiate into a neuronal phenotype, express electrophysiological properties of functional neurons and respond to neurotransmitters in vitro. However, the electrophysiological properties are immature and the cells require longer maturation time than possible under in vitro conditions.
The aim of this study was to investigate the interaction between beta-amyloid (Abeta) peptide and astrogliosis in early stages of Abeta toxicity. In Wistar rats, anaesthetised with equitesine, a single microinjection of Abeta1-42 oligomers was placed into the retrosplenial cortex. Control animals were injected with Abeta42-1 peptide into the corresponding regions of cerebral cortex. Immunocytochemical analysis revealed an intense Abeta immunoreactivity (IR) at the level of Abeta1-42 injection site, increasing from the first 24 h to later (72 h) time point. Control injection showed a light staining surrounding the injection site. In Abeta oligomers-treated animals, Abeta-immunopositive product also accumulates in cortical cells, particularly in frontal and temporal cortices at an early (24 h) time point. Abeta-IR structures-like diffuse aggregates forms were also observed in hippocampus and in several cortical areas, increasing from the first 24 h to later (72 h) time point. In control animals no specific staining was seen neither in cortical cells nor in structures-like diffuse aggregates forms. Injections of Abeta oligomers also induce activation of astrocytes surrounding and infiltrating the injection site. Astrocyte activation is evidenced by morphological changes and upregulation of glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP). By GFAP immunoblotting we detected two immunopositive protein bands, at 50 and 48 kDa molecular mass. Confocal analysis also showed that GFAP co-localized with Abeta-IR material in a time-dependent manner. In conclusion, our results indicate that astrocyte activation might have a critical role in the mechanisms of Abeta-induced neurodegeneration, and that should be further studied as possible targets for therapeutic intervention in AD.
Recent research progress has given detailed knowledge on the molecular pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease (AD), which has been translated into an intense, ongoing development of disease-modifying treatments. Most new drug candidates are targeted on inhibiting amyloid beta (Abeta) production and aggregation. In drug development, it is important to co-develop biomarkers for Abeta-related mechanisms to enable early diagnosis and patient stratification in clinical trials, and to serve as tools to identify and monitor the biochemical effect of the drug directly in patients. Biomarkers are also requested by regulatory authorities to serve as safety measurements. Molecular aberrations in the AD brain are reflected in the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF). Core CSF biomarkers include Abeta isoforms (Abeta40/Abeta42), soluble APP isoforms, Abeta oligomers and beta-site APP-cleaving enzyme 1 (BACE1). This article reviews recent research advances on core candidate CSF and plasma Abeta-related biomarkers, and gives a conceptual review on how to implement biomarkers in clinical trials in AD.
Alzheimer's disease (AD) is the principal cause of dementia in older people, and accumulation of amyloid-beta (Abeta) peptide is a crucial event in AD pathogenesis. Despite opposite results found in literature, increased evidence posits that high cholesterol levels enhance the risk to develop AD. In fact, cholesterol metabolism and catabolism are affected in this neurodegenerative disorder. Since amyloid precursor protein (APP) processing and subsequent Abeta production are dependent on membrane cholesterol content and on levels of isoprenoid intermediates in the cholesterol biosynthesis pathway, changes in cholesterol might have different consequences on Abeta formation. These pieces of evidence support that inhibitors of cholesterol synthesis, like statins, could have a therapeutic role in AD. Many studies about the effect of statins use in AD show conflicting results; however, some authors explain it by the differences in administrated doses. Recent studies demonstrate that statins can efficiently decrease Abeta formation from APP and be neuroprotective against the peptide toxicity. Because of the high number of pleiotropic effects of statins, novel molecular mechanisms that account for the beneficial effect of these drugs on AD might be discovered in a near future.
Alzheimer's disease (AD) is characterised by neurofibrillary tangles composed of hyper-phosphorylated tau, and neuritic plaques composed of misfolded amyloid peptide (Abeta(42)). It is generally believed that the hyper-phosphorylated tau and oligomeric Abeta(42) are responsible for the neuronal dysfunction and cognitive impairments that underlie the early stages of AD, but the mechanism by which they interact in the pathogenic process is not clear. Mounting evidence suggests that Abeta(42) pathology lies upstream of hyper-phosphorylated tau pathology. Similarly much is being learnt about how each protein affects neuronal function. However, the impact that either pathological protein has on neuronal dysfunction caused by the other is not extensively studied. We have investigated this in a Drosophila model of AD in which we express both phosphorylated human tau (tau(wt)) and oligomeric Abeta(42). We find that expression of tau(wt) causes neuronal dysfunction by disrupting axonal transport and synaptic structure, and that this leads to behavioural impairments and reduced lifespan. Co-expression of Abeta(42) with tau(wt) increases tau phosphorylation and exacerbates all these tau-mediated phenotypes. Treatment of tau(wt)/Abeta(42) and flies with LiCl ameliorates the exacerbating effect of Abeta(42), suggesting that GSK-3beta may be involved in the mechanism by which Abeta(42) and tau(wt) interact to cause neuronal dysfunction. Conversely to the effect of Abeta(42), mimicking the wingless signalling pathway by co-expression of dishevelled with tau(wt) reduces tau phosphorylation and suppresses the tau-mediated phenotypes. It is therefore possible to speculate that the mechanism by which Abeta(42) interacts with tau in the pathogenesis of AD is by down-regulating endogenous wnt signalling.
Alzheimer's disease (AD) has become a major world-wide health problem with ever rising costs associated with the treatment and care of afflicted individuals. As life expectancy has increased the occurrence of dementia has also increased. Hypertension during middle adulthood is correlated with a significantly elevated risk of cognitive impairment later in life. Treatment with antihypertensive drugs, particularly angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors and angiotensin receptor blockers (ARBs), has been reported to reduce the likelihood and slow the progression of AD; however, the use of ACE inhibitors may be accompanied by an increase in amyloid beta protein(1-42) accumulation. This review summarizes available information regarding the brain renin-angiotensin system (RAS), and specifically the efficacy of ACE inhibitors as anti-dementia agents, and considers the recently discovered AT(4) receptor and associated agonist drugs as potential new therapeutic targets to treat memory impairments associated with AD. We conclude with a description of recent efforts by members of our laboratory to develop blood-brain barrier penetrant angiotensin IV analogue drugs that facilitate cognition in animal models of AD. These efforts have resulted in a small molecule with desirable hydrophobicity characteristics that shows promise with respect to memory facilitation when peripherally administered.
Amyloid plaque deposition in the brain is a hallmark of Alzheimer's disease, but recent evidence indicates that the disease may be primarily caused by soluble amyloid-beta (1-42) (Abeta) oligomers or Abeta-derived diffusible ligands (ADDLs). ADDLs induce cognitive deficits in animal models and are thought to assemble in vitro by a mechanism apart from plaque formation. To investigate the in vivo relationship of ADDLs and plaques, biotin-labeled ADDLs (bADDLs) or amylin oligomers (bAMs) were injected into the hippocampus of hAPP overexpressing mice. The brains were collected 1 or 5 weeks after the last treatment and were processed for immunohistochemistry. Staining of tissue 1 week post-treatment showed bADDLs had diffused throughout the tissue and incorporated into plaques. Additionally, small deposits of thioflavin S-negative bADDLs were observed. At 5 weeks post-treatment, thioflavin S-positive material continued to accumulate around plaques containing bADDLs. Thioflavin S-positive material also accrued around bADDL deposits, implying that bADDLs were capable of seeding new plaques. In contrast, bAMs cleared from the brain and did not accumulate in plaques. Together, these data indicate that ADDLs are able to contribute to in vivo plaque formation in a peptide-specific manner.
The amyloid beta (Abeta) and tau proteins, which misfold, aggregate, and accumulate in the Alzheimer's disease (AD) brain, are implicated as central factors in a complex neurodegenerative cascade. Studies of mutations that cause early onset AD and promote Abeta accumulation in the brain strongly support the notion that inhibiting Abeta aggregation will prevent AD. Similarly, genetic studies of frontotemporal dementia with parkinsonism linked to chromosome 17 (FTDP-17 MAPT) showing that mutations in the MAPT gene encoding tau lead to abnormal tau accumulation and neurodegeneration. Such genetic studies clearly show that tau dysfunction and aggregation can be central to neurodegeneration, however, most likely in a secondary fashion in relation to AD. Additional pathologic, biochemical, and modeling studies further support the concept that Abeta and tau are prime targets for disease modifying therapies in AD. Treatment strategies aimed at preventing the aggregation and accumulation of Abeta, tau, or both proteins should therefore be theoretically possible, assuming that treatment can be initiated before either irreversible damage is present or downstream, self-sustaining, pathological cascades have been initiated. Herein, we will review recent advances and also potential setbacks with respect to the myriad of therapeutic strategies that are designed to slow down, prevent, or clear the accumulation of either &quot;pathological&quot; Abeta or tau. We will also discuss the need for thoughtful prioritization with respect to clinical development of the preclinically validated modifiers of Abeta and tau pathology. The current number of candidate therapies targeting Abeta is becoming so large that a triage process is clearly needed to insure that resources are invested in a way such that the best candidates for disease modifying therapy are rapidly moved toward clinical trials. Finally, we will discuss the challenges for an appropriate &quot;triage&quot; after potential disease modifying therapies targeting tau and Abeta have entered clinical trials.
When first described by Alois Alzheimer in 1907, AD was seen as a disorder that causes dementia and characterized by two defining neuropathological lesions, later associated with all forms of AD. While the etiology of AD remains largely unclear, there is accumulating evidence suggesting that mitochondrial dysfunction occurs prior to the onset of symptoms in AD. Mitochondria are exceptionally poised to play a crucial role in neuronal cell survival or death because they are regulators of both energy metabolism and apoptotic pathways. This review is mainly focused in the discussion of evidence suggesting a clear association between mitochondrial dysfunction, autophagy impairment and amyloid-beta accumulation in Alzheimer's disease pathophysiology. The knowledge that autophagic insufficiency may compromise the cellular degradation mechanisms that may culminate in the progressive accumulation of dysfunctional mitochondria, aberrant protein aggregates buildup and lysossomal burden shield new insights to the way we address Alzheimer's disease. In line with this knowledge an innovative window for new therapeutic strategies aimed to activate or ameliorate macroautophagy may be opened.
Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a progressive neurodegenerative disorder of the central nervous system. Two pathological hallmarks in the brain of AD patients are neurofibrillary tangles and senile plaques. The plaques consist mainly of beta-amyloid (Abeta) peptides that are produced from the amyloid precursor protein (APP), by sequential cleavage by beta- and gamma-secretase. Most previous studies have been focused on the C-terminal fragments of APP, where the Abeta sequence is localized. The purpose of this study was to search for N-terminal fragments of APP in cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) using mass spectrometry (MS). By using immunoprecipitation (IP) combined with matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization time-of-flight MS as well as nanoflow liquid chromatography coupled to high resolution tandem MS we were able to detect and identify six novel N-terminal APP fragments [APP((18-119)), APP((18-121)), APP((18-122)), APP((18-123)), APP((18-124)) and APP((18-126))], having molecular masses of approximately 12 kDa. The presence of these APP derivatives in CSF was also verified by Western blot analysis. Two pilot studies using either IP-MS or Western blot analysis indicated slightly elevated levels of N-terminal APP fragments in CSF from AD patients compared with controls, which are in need of replications in independent and larger patient materials.


Obesity is well characterized as a systemic inflammatory condition, and is also associated with cognitive disruption, suggesting a link between the two. We assessed whether peripheral inflammation in maternal obesity may be transferred to the offspring brain, in particular, the hippocampus, and thereby result in cognitive dysfunction. Rat dams were fed a high-saturated-fat diet (SFD), a high-trans-fat diet (TFD), or a low-fat diet (LFD) for 4 wk prior to mating, and remained on the diet throughout pregnancy and lactation. SFD/TFD exposure significantly increased body weight in both dams and pups compared to controls. Microglial activation markers were increased in the hippocampus of SFD/TFD pups at birth. At weaning and in adulthood, proinflammatory cytokine expression was strikingly increased in the periphery and hippocampus following a bacterial challenge [lipopolysaccharide (LPS)] in the SFD/TFD groups compared to controls. Microglial activation within the hippocampus was also increased basally in SFD rats, suggesting a chronic priming of the cells. Finally, there were marked changes in anxiety and spatial learning in SFD/TFD groups. These effects were all observed in adulthood, even after the pups were placed on standard chow at weaning, suggesting these outcomes were programmed early in life.
Thrombospondin 1 (TSP1), an oligomeric matrix protein, is known for its antiangiogenic activity. Recently, TSP1 has been shown to regulate synaptogenesis in the developing brain. In this study, we examine another role of TSP1 in the CNS, namely, in proliferation and differentiation of neural progenitor cells (NPCs). We found that adult mice deficient in TSP1 exhibit reduced proliferation of NPCs in vivo [13,330+/-826 vs. 4914+/-455 (mean+/-se wt vs. TSP1(-/-)); P&lt;0.001, Student's t test] and impaired neuronal differentiation (1382+/-83 vs. 879+/-79; P&lt;0.001). In vitro, NPC obtained from adult TSP1(-/-) mice display decreased proliferation in BrdU assay (48+/-8 vs. 24+/-3.5%; P&lt;0.01) and decreased neuronal fate commitment (8+/-0.85 vs. 4.6+/-0.5%; P&lt;0.05) in contrast to wild-type NPCs. Both proliferation and neuronal differentiation deficits are remediable in vitro by exogenous TSP1. Notably, conditioned medium from TSP1(-/-) astrocytes, unlike that from control astrocytes, fails to promote neurogenesis in wild-type NPCs, suggesting that TSP1 is one of the key molecules responsible for astrocyte-induced neurogenesis. Our data demonstrate that TSP1 is a critical participant in maintenance of the adult NPC pool and in neuronal differentiation.
Purkinje cell degeneration (pcd) mice have a mutation within the gene encoding cytosolic carboxypeptidase 1 (CCP1/Nna1), which has homology to metallocarboxypeptidases. To assess the function of CCP1/Nna1, quantitative proteomics and peptidomics approaches were used to compare proteins and peptides in mutant and wild-type mice. Hundreds of peptides derived from cytosolic and mitochondrial proteins are greatly elevated in pcd mouse hypothalamus, amygdala, cortex, prefrontal cortex, and striatum. However, the major proteins detected on 2-D gel electrophoresis were present in mutant and wild-type mouse cortex and hypothalamus at comparable levels, and proteasome activity is normal in these brain regions of pcd mice, suggesting that the increase in cellular peptide levels in the pcd mice is due to reduced degradation of the peptides downstream of the proteasome. Both nondegenerating and degenerating regions of pcd mouse brain, but not wild-type mouse brain, show elevated autophagy, which can be triggered by a decrease in amino acid levels. Taken together with previous studies on CCP1/Nna1, these data suggest that CCP1/Nna1 plays a role in protein turnover by cleaving proteasome-generated peptides into amino acids and that decreased peptide turnover in the pcd mice leads to cell death.
The behavioural manipulation hypothesis posits that parasites can change the behaviour of hosts to increase the reproductive fitness of the parasite. The protozoan parasite Toxoplasma gondii fits this description well. Sexual reproduction occurs in the cat intestine, from which highly stable oocysts are excreted in faeces. Grazing animals, including rodents, can then ingest these oocysts. The parasite has evolved the capacity to abolish the innate fear that rodents have of the odours of cats, and to convert that fear into an attraction. This presumably increases the likelihood of the rodent being predated, thereby completing the parasite's life cycle. The behavioural syndrome produced by T. gondii does not have any precedent in neuroscience research. This is not a case where the normal functioning of fear system have been altered. This is not even the case of the altering of fear towards predator odours, while leaving other kinds of fear intact. This is an unprecedented example of one component of the fear being eliminated (and replaced by a novel attraction), while appearing to leave other domains unchanged. An understanding of the neurobiological effects of T. gondii is beginning to emerge. One possibility is T. gondii's preferential localisation to, and effects within the amygdala; this is particularly intriguing, given the role of this brain structure in the normal fear response. Obviously, far more must be understood, and the unique behavioural effects of T. gondii put very demanding constraints on any hypothesis we formulate to explain proximate neurobiological mechanisms.

As soon as in the 1960's, the role of serotonin (5-Hydroxytryptamin, 5-HT) in psychiatric disorders was realized, which was further substantiated by several lines of evidence amounting to a huge body of knowledge. The indolamine 5-HT belongs to the class of monoamine transmitters and can be found in the serotonergic neurons of the raphe nuclei in the brain stem. In the periphery, it is mainly present in the gastrointestinal system and the pineal gland. 5-HT is implicated in a variety of cognitive, emotional and vegetative behaviors, as well as in the regulation of circadian rhythms. Apart from its role as a neurotransmitter, it has an important function in prenatal development, where its expression pattern is tightly regulated, and in adult neurogenesis. The numerous effects of 5-HT are mediated by specific pre- and postsynaptic receptors, whose localization and functions are further described here. The serotonin transporter (SERT), which accomplishes the re-uptake of 5-HT into the neuron following its release in the synaptic cleft, not only has an important role in the termination of serotonergic neurotransmission but is also an important drug target for antidepressant compounds. In this part of the review, the neurobiological underpinnings of 5-HT synthesis, metabolism, and neurotransmission as well as the corresponding physiological consequences are summarized, while in the second part, an overview on clinical findings is provided and critically discussed.
The currently accepted definition classifies Cerebral Palsy (CP) as a mere posture and movement disorder. Conversely, some authors have recently associated the presence of several motor dysfunctions exhibited by diplegic children with CP to an impairment in the perceptive system. The aim of the present study was to investigate the influence of the Perceptive Impairment (PI) on motor control and to appraise if the PI can be revealed by a reaching task. A functional reach and touch experiment was accomplished from sitting posture considering different directions and distances. Typically developing and diplegic children with CP were enrolled and, the latter, a priori divided in two subgroups considering a positive or negative diagnosis of PI. The reaching trials were quantified by means of centre of pressure analysis in terms of the overall quality of the task, and accuracy and effectiveness of postural adjustments and Anticipatory Postural Adjustments (APAs). The three groups showed statistically significant differences in terms of percentage of touched target, and of time spent and maximum distance covered to reach the target. In particular, PI caused a major difficulty in accomplishing the reaching tasks, thus a lower autonomy level in action. Overall, the PI strongly affected the anticipatory control system. Children with PI, rarely recruited APAs, each of which was characterized by small amplitude and inaccuracy in direction. The lack of effective APAs indicated how PI strongly influenced the motor control strategy. The present study demonstrates that the PI is a primary syndrome responsible for the long-term prognosis beside the motor and the postural disorders in CP.
The reliability of kinematic measurements has a top priority in gait analysis. The aim of the present work was to assess the inter-trial, inter-session and inter-examiner variability of an anatomical-based protocol by an established method. The gait of two young adult volunteers was analyzed by four examiners with different degrees of experience in three sessions 1 week apart. The data of five trials of level walking were collected and the rotations in the three anatomical planes of the pelvis, hip, knee and ankle were calculated. The mean value over the gait cycle of the standard deviation of these rotations was calculated for each of the 24 groups of five trials (inter-trial), the eight groups of five trials multiplied by three sessions (inter-session), and the two groups of five trials multiplied by three sessions multiplied by four examiners (inter-examiner). For each rotation, the inter-examiner variability was larger than the inter-session, and the latter larger than the inter-trial. The present ratio between inter-examiner and inter-trial variability was found to be smaller than that of the conventional protocol for each of the gait variables.

At the crossroad of multiple pathways regulating trophism and metabolism, glycogen synthase kinase (GSK)3 is considered a key factor in influencing the susceptibility of neurons to harmful stimuli (neuronal resilience) and is a target for several psychiatric drugs that directly inhibit it or increase its inhibitory phosphorylation. Inhibition of GSK3 prevents apoptosis and could protect against the neuropathological processes associated with psychiatric disorders. A GSK3-beta promoter single-nucleotide polymorphism (rs334558) influences transcriptional strength, and the less active form was associated with less detrimental clinical features of mood disorders. Here we studied the effect of rs334558 on grey matter volumes (voxel-based morphometry) of 57 patients affected by chronic schizophrenia. Carriers of the less active C allele variant showed significantly higher brain volumes in an area encompassing posterior regions of right middle and superior temporal gyrus, within the boundaries of Brodmann area 21. The temporal lobe is the brain parenchymal region with the most consistently documented morphometric abnormalities in schizophrenia, and neuropathological processes in these regions develop soon at the beginning of the illness. These results support the interest for GSK3-beta as a factor affecting neuropathology in major behavioural disorders, such as schizophrenia, and thus as a possible target for treatment.
Rat chromosome 1 harbors overlapping quantitative trait loci (QTL) for cytokine production and experimental models of inflammatory diseases. We fine-dissected this region that regulated cytokine production, myelin oligodendrocyte glycoprotein (MOG)-induced experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE), anti-MOG antibodies and pristane-induced arthritis (PIA) in advanced intercross lines (AILs). Analysis in the tenth and twelfth generation of AILs resolved the region in two narrow QTL, Eae30 and Eae31. Eae30 showed linkage to MOG-EAE, anti-MOG antibodies and levels of interleukin-6 (IL-6). Eae31 showed linkage to EAE, PIA, anti-MOG antibodies and levels of tumor necrosis factor (TNF) and IL-6. Confidence intervals defined a limited set of potential candidate genes, with the most interesting being RGMA, IL21R and IL4R. We tested the association with multiple sclerosis (MS) in a Nordic case-control material. A single nucleotide polymorphism in RGMA associated with MS in males (odds ratio (OR)=1.33). Polymorphisms of RGMA also correlated with changes in the expression of interferon-gamma (IFN-gamma) and TNF in cerebrospinal fluid of MS patients. In IL21R, there was one positively associated (OR=1.14) and two protective (OR=0.87 and 0.68) haplotypes. One of the protective haplotypes correlated to lower IFN-gamma expression in peripheral blood mononuclear cells of MS patients. We conclude that RGMA and IL21R and their pathways are crucial in MS pathogenesis and warrant further studies as potential biomarkers and therapeutic targets.
mRNA-seq is a paradigm-shifting technology because of its superior sensitivity and dynamic range and its potential to capture transcriptomes in an agnostic fashion, i.e., independently of existing genome annotations. Implementation of the agnostic approach, however, has not yet been fully achieved. In particular, agnostic mapping of pre-mRNA splice sites has not been demonstrated. The present study pursued dual goals: (1) to advance mRNA-seq bioinformatics toward unbiased transcriptome capture and (2) to demonstrate its potential for discovery in neuroscience by applying the approach to an in vivo model of neurological disease. We have performed mRNA-seq on the L4 dorsal root ganglion (DRG) of rats with chronic neuropathic pain induced by spinal nerve ligation (SNL) of the neighboring (L5) spinal nerve. We found that 12.4% of known genes were induced and 7% were suppressed in the dysfunctional (but anatomically intact) L4 DRG 2 wk after SNL. These alterations persisted chronically (2 mo). Using a read cluster classifier with strong test characteristics (ROC area 97%), we discovered 10,464 novel exons. A new algorithm for agnostic mapping of pre-mRNA splice junctions (SJs) achieved a precision of 97%. Integration of information from all mRNA-seq read classes including SJs led to genome reannotations specifically relevant for the species used (rat), the anatomical site studied (DRG), and the neurological disease considered (pain); for example, a 64-exon coreceptor for the nociceptive transmitter substance P was identified, and 21.9% of newly discovered exons were shown to be dysregulated. Thus, mRNA-seq with agnostic analysis methods appears to provide a highly productive approach for in vivo transcriptomics in the nervous system.
Adult neural stem cells (NSCs) are located in the subventricular zone (SVZ), a specialized brain niche located on the walls of the lateral ventricle. Under physiological conditions, NSCs generate a large number of young neurons and some oligodendrocytes, however the mechanisms controlling cell proliferation and migration are unclear. In vitro, epidermal growth factor (EGF) signaling has been shown to be an important mediator of cell proliferation and migration in the adult brain; however, the primary SVZ progenitors that respond to EGF are not well known. In this study, we isolated SVZ type-B astrocytes and cultured them under different EGF concentrations. We found a dose-dependent effect of EGF on proliferation rates and migration of SVZ type-B astrocytes. We found that GFAP+ type-B astrocytes gave rise to highly migratory and proliferating cells that expressed Olig2 and NG2. After EGF withdrawal, a significant number of EGF-stimulated cells differentiated into S100beta+/O4+ oligodendrocytes. This study provides new insights about the production of oligodendrocytes derived from the astrocyte NSCs residing in the adult SVZ. To be able to manipulate the endogenous adult progenitors, it is crucial to identify and isolate the responding primary precursors and determine the extracellular signals that regulate their cell division, migration, and fate.
Spinal cord injury (SCI) is a cause of major neurological disability, and no satisfactory treatment is currently available. Traumatic SCI directly damages the cell bodies and/or processes of neurons and triggers a series of endogenous processes, including neuroinflammatory response and reactive astrogliosis. In this study, we found that triptolide, one of the major active components of the traditional Chinese herb Tripterygium wilfordii Hook F, inhibited astrogliosis and inflammation and promoted spinal cord repair. Triptolide was shown to prevent astrocytes from reactive activation by blocking the JAK2/STAT3 pathway in vitro and in vivo. Furthermore, astrocytic gliosis and glial scar were greatly reduced in injured spinal cord treated with triptolide. Triptolide treatment was also shown to decrease the ED-1 or CD11b-positive inflammatory cells at the lesion site. Using neurofilament staining and anterograde tracing, a significantly greater number of regenerative axons were observed in the triptolide-treated rats. Importantly, behavioral tests revealed that injured rats receiving triptolide had improved functional recovery as assessed by the Basso, Beattie, and Bresnahan open-field scoring, grid-walk, and foot-print analysis. These results suggested that triptolide promoted axon regeneration and locomotor recovery by attenuating glial scaring and inflammation, and shed light on the potential therapeutic benefit for SCI.
Growth hormone (GH) and insulin-like growth factor I (IGF-I) increase cell genesis in several regions of the brains of GH-IGF-I-deficient hypophysectomized rats. However, it is not known to what degree GH treatment stimulates adult cell genesis in pituitary-intact rodents. We investigated the effect of peripheral administration of bovine growth hormone (bGH) on cellular proliferation in various regions of the brains of normal adult female rats. To monitor cell division, bromodeoxyuridine (BrdU) was administered daily for 5 days. We studied the two areas of ongoing neurogenesis, the subventricular zone (SVZ) and the dentate gyrus (DG) of the hippocampus, as well as the corpus callosum, striatum, and the parietal and piriform cortices. After bGH treatment, the numbers of BrdU-positive cells increased 2.0- to 2.5-fold in all the brain regions, with the exception of the SVZ, in which there was no increase in the numbers of BrdU-positive cells. The present study shows for the first time that peripheral bGH administration increases the generation of new brain cells in normal adult female rats. Thus, bGH may stimulate cellular proliferation not only under GH-deficiency, but also under physiologic conditions. These findings have important implications for GH treatment strategies for patients who have normal or near-normal circulating levels of GH or IGF-I.

Despite significant progress in our understanding of the brain at both microscopic and macroscopic scales, the mechanisms by which low-level neuronal behavior gives rise to high-level mental processes such as memory still remain unknown. In this paper, we assess the plausibility and quantify the performance of polychronization, a newly proposed mechanism of neuronal encoding, which has been suggested to underlie a wide range of cognitive phenomena. We then investigate the effect of network topology on the reliability with which input stimuli can be distinguished based on their encoding in the form of so-called polychronous groups or spatiotemporal patterns of spikes. We find that small-world networks perform an order of magnitude better than random ones, enabling reliable discrimination between inputs even when prompted by increasingly incomplete recall cues. Furthermore, we show that small-world architectures operate at significantly reduced energetic costs and that their memory capacity scales favorably with network size. Finally, we find that small-world topologies introduce biologically realistic constraints on the optimal input stimuli, favoring especially the topographic inputs known to exist in many cortical areas. Our results suggest that mammalian cortical networks, by virtue of being both small-world and topographically organized, seem particularly well-suited to information processing through polychronization. This article addresses the fundamental question of encoding in neuroscience. In particular, evidence is presented in support of an emerging model of neuronal encoding in the neocortex based on spatiotemporal patterns of spikes.
Episodic memory and episodic future thinking are known to share a set of brain regions. Potential differences in activation patterns associated with the two conditions are as yet inconclusive, in particular with respect to hippocampal involvement. Hippocampal activation is modulated by a range of phenomenal qualities during the imagination of both past and future events (Addis et al. (2004) Hippocampus 14:752-762; Addis and Schacter (2008) Hippocampus 18:227-237). A relevant variable in this regard is the occurrence probability of an episode, which varies for future but not past events and thus cannot be equated across conditions. Using parametric modulation analysis, we investigated the effect of occurrence probability of imagined future events on brain activation patterns, while effects of temporal distance, amount of details, and emotionality were controlled for. Activation of right anterior hippocampus increased with decreasing occurrence probability, presumably reflecting higher processing demands during binding of more disparate details for unlikely events. This finding may contribute to the understanding of previously reported inconsistent results concerning hippocampal involvement during the imagination of past and future events.
The hippocampal somatostatin (sst) receptor subtype 4 (sst(4)) modulates memory formation by diminishing hippocampus-based spatial function while enhancing striatum-dependent behaviors. sst(4)-mediated regulations on neuronal activity in the hippocampus appear to depend on both competitive and cooperative interactions with sst receptor subtype 2 (sst(2)). Here, we investigated whether interactions with sst(2) receptors are required for sst(4)-mediated effects on hippocampus-dependent spatial memory and striatum-dependent cued memory in a water maze paradigm. Competition was assessed in mice by intrahippocampal injections of the sst(4) agonist L-803,087 alone or combined with sst(2) agonists (L-779,976 or octreotide). Effects of L-803,087 were also tested in sst(2) knockout mice to assess for receptor cooperation. Finally, sst(2a) and sst(4) localizations within hippocampal subregions were analyzed by immunohistochemistry and expression levels of sst(2a) and sst(2b) were quantified by real-time qPCR. Hippocampal injections of L-803,087 impaired spatial memory but enhanced cued memory. The latter effect was lost not only in sst(2) knockout mice but also in the presence of sst(2) agonists, whereas the former effect remained unaffected by sst(2) agonists or gene deletion. Octreotide and L-779,976 did not yield memory effects but reduced swim velocity throughout the acquisition trials suggesting that stimulation of sst(2) affected motivation and/or anxiety. sst(2a) and sst(4) were respectively detected in the dentate gyrus (DG) and the CA1 subfield suggesting that their functional interactions are not mediated by direct receptor coupling. Hippocampus sst(2a) expression was 36-fold higher than sst(2b). Possible neural mechanisms and functional significances for interaction between memory systems in relationship with stress-induced changes in hippocampal functions are discussed.
The spontaneously hypertensive rat (SHR) is used as an animal model of attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD). It displays deficits in frontostriatal functioning, but it is unclear if medial temporal lobe functioning and structure are affected. We used behavioral tasks that evaluate functioning of the amygdala and hippocampus to compare male SHR to male rats from two inbred comparator strains, the normotensive Wistar-Kyoto (WKY) and the hypertensive Wistar-Kyoto (WKHT) rat (n = 8/strain). The three strains showed similar levels of amygdala-related stimulus-reward learning during conditioned cue preference testing. In the ambiguous T-maze task, which dissociates between spatial and habit learning, significantly more WKHT than SHR or WKY used a response (indicative of habit learning) versus a place (indicative of spatial learning) strategy during an early probe test on day 8. During a later probe test on day 24, WKY progressed significantly from using a place strategy to a response strategy. Throughout all probe tests, a place strategy was used predominately by SHR and a response strategy by WKHT. Thus, SHR exhibited deficits in dorsal striatum-related habit learning, whereas WKHT exhibited deficits in hippocampus-related spatial learning. Following behavioral testing, fluid attenuated inversion recovery (FLAIR) magnetic resonance imaging scans were conducted in subgroups of rats from each strain (n = 4/strain). FLAIR imaging detected bilateral hippocampal hyperintensities in three of four WKHT and unilateral hippocampal atrophy in one of four SHR. The association between response strategy use during the initial probe test to forage for food in the ambiguous T-maze task and bilateral hippocampal abnormalities was significant. Collectively, while medial temporal lobe functioning appears to be normal in SHR exhibiting an ADHD-like phenotype, WKHT rats display both hippocampal functioning deficits and signs of bilateral hippocampal cell loss. The latter characteristics might be used to develop a new animal model of age- or disease-related decline in hippocampal functioning.
The aim of this study was to evaluate the effects of physical training on the L5 dorsal root ganglion (DRG) cells in streptozotocin diabetic rats. Male adult rats were divided into 3 groups: (control, diabetic and trained diabetic). Treadmill training was performed for 10 weeks (5 days/week, twice a day). Blood glucose concentrations and body weight were evaluated 48h after diabetes induction and every 30 days thereafter. Then, animals were killed and the right L5 DRG removed. Histological and morphometric analysis consisted of evaluating nuclear and cellular volumes and areas in A and B cells at light and ultrastructural levels. Blood glucose concentrations were higher in both diabetic groups vs controls at all periods. Body weights were lower in all diabetics vs controls at all periods after diabetes induction, with a significant time vs group interaction. In A cells, the cellular and nuclear volumes were lower than control animals only in the diabetic group; control and trained diabetic animals did not differ; in B cells the cellular and nuclear volumes were lower in diabetic and trained diabetic rats. The cellular areas of A cells were smaller in diabetic rats than in control and trained diabetic rats, while the cellular areas of B cells were smaller in the diabetic and trained groups. In conclusion, treadmill training was able to increase the size of A cells from the DRG in diabetic rats and improved the morphological features of these cells.
Considerable public attention has been focused on the issue of youth violence, particularly that associated with drug use. It is documented that anabolic steroid use by teenagers is associated with a higher incidence of aggressive behavior and serious violence, yet little is known about how these drugs produce the aggressive phenotype. Here we discuss work from our laboratory on the relationship between the development and activity of select neurotransmitter systems in the anterior hypothalamus and anabolic steroid-induced offensive aggression using pubertal male Syrian hamsters (Mesocricetus auratus) as an adolescent animal model, with the express goal of synthesizing these data into an cogent neural model of the developmental adaptations that may underlie anabolic steroid-induced aggressive behavior. Notably, alterations in each of the neural systems identified as important components of the anabolic steroid-induced aggressive response occurred in a sub-division of the anterior hypothalamic brain region we identified as the hamster equivalent of the latero-anterior hypothalamus, indicating that this sub-region of the hypothalamus is an important site of convergence for anabolic steroid-induced neural adaptations that precipitate offensive aggression. Based on these findings we present in this review a neural model to explain the neurochemical regulation of anabolic steroid-induced offensive aggression showing the hypothetical interaction between the arginine vasopressin, serotonin, dopamine, gamma-aminobutyric acid, and glutamate neural systems in the anterior hypothalamic brain region.
Binge drinking, defined as achieving blood ethanol concentrations (BEC) of 80 mg%, has been increasing in adolescents and was reported to predispose later physical dependence. The present experiments utilized an animal model of binge drinking to compare the effect of ethanol &quot;binge&quot; experience during adolescence or adulthood on subsequent ethanol intake in male and female C57BL/6 mice. Adolescent and adult mice were initially exposed to the scheduled high alcohol consumption procedure, which produces BECs that exceed the levels for binge drinking following a 30-min ethanol session every third day. Ethanol intake and BECs were significantly higher in the adolescent ( approximately 3 g/kg, 199 mg%) versus adult ( approximately 2 g/kg, 135 mg%) mice during the first three ethanol sessions, but were more equivalent during the final two ethanol sessions (1.85-2.0 g/kg, 129-143 mg%). Then, separate groups of the ethanol-experienced mice were tested with ethanol nave adolescent and adult mice for 2-h limited access (10% and 20% solutions) or 24-h (5%, 10% and 20% solutions) ethanol preference drinking. Limited access ethanol intake was significantly higher in female versus male mice, but was not altered by age or ethanol experience. In contrast, 24-h ethanol intake was significantly higher in the adolescent versus adult mice and in female versus male mice. Furthermore, binge drinking experience in the adolescent mice significantly increased subsequent ethanol intake, primarily due to intake in female mice. Thus, adolescent binge drinking significantly increased unlimited ethanol intake during adulthood, with female mice more susceptible to this effect.
In this review, we summarize literature focused on how progesterone alters cocaine-induced psychomotor, reinforcement, and physiological responses. Clinical studies suggest that progesterone attenuates the subjective effects of cocaine. Similarly, preclinical studies have demonstrated that cocaine-induced reward and psychomotor responses are attenuated after progesterone administration. In rats progesterone also reduces the reinforcement effects of cocaine attenuates acquisition, escalation, reinstatement of cocaine self-administration, and cocaine-seeking behaviors. Progesterone also counteracts the facilitatory effects of estrogen on cocaine self-administration and psychomotor activation. These findings suggest that progesterone has a potential in clinical applications as a treatment for cocaine addiction. Constantly changing progesterone serum levels in female humans and rats affect the female's reinforcement responses to cocaine and may in part contribute to the known sex differences in cocaine responses.
There is a bi-directionality in hormone-cannabinoid interactions: cannabinoids affect prominent endocrine axes (such as the hypothalamic-pituitary-gonadal), and gonadal hormones modulate cannabinoid effects. This review will summarize recent research on these interactions, with a specific focus upon their implications for motivated behavior. Sexual behavior will serve as a &quot;case study.&quot; I will explore the hypothesis that ovarian hormones, in particular estradiol, may serve to release estrous behavior from endocannabinoid inhibition. Hormonal regulation of the endogenous cannabinoid system also affects processes that underlie drug abuse. This review will briefly discuss sex differences in behavioral responses to cannabinoids and explore potential mechanisms by which gonadal hormones alter cannabinoid reward. An examination of this research informs our perspective on how hormones and endocannabinoids may affect drug-seeking behavior as a whole and the development of addiction.
Adolescence refers to the period of physical and psychological development between childhood and adulthood. The beginning of adolescence is loosely anchored to the onset of puberty, which brings dramatic alterations in hormone levels and a number of consequent physical changes. Puberty onset is also associated with profound changes in drives, motivations, psychology, and social life; these changes continue throughout adolescence. There is an increasing number of neuroimaging studies looking at the development of the brain, both structurally and functionally, during adolescence. Almost all of these studies have defined development by chronological age, which shows a strong-but not unitary-correlation with pubertal stage. Very few neuroimaging studies have associated brain development with pubertal stage, and yet there is tentative evidence to suggest that puberty might play an important role in some aspects of brain and cognitive development. In this paper we describe this research, and we suggest that, in the future, developmental neuroimaging studies of adolescence should consider the role of puberty.
Population neuroscience endeavours to identify environmental and genetic factors that shape the function and structure of the human brain; it uses tools and knowledge of genetics, epidemiology, and cognitive neuroscience. Here, I focus on the application of population neuroscience in studies of brain development. By describing in some detail four existing large-scale magnetic resonance (MR) imaging studies of typically developing children and adolescents, I provide an overview of their design, including population sampling and recruitment, assessments of environmental and genetic &quot;exposures,&quot; and measurements of brain and behavior &quot;outcomes.&quot; I then discuss challenges faced by investigators carrying out such MR-based studies, including quality assurance, quality control and intersite coordination, and provide a brief overview of the achievements made so far. I conclude by outlining future directions vis--vis population neuroscience, such as design strategies that can be used to evaluate the presence of absence of causality in associations discovered by observational studies.
Development and learning are powerful agents of change across the lifespan that induce robust structural and functional plasticity in neural systems. An unresolved question in developmental cognitive neuroscience is whether development and learning share the same neural mechanisms associated with experience-related neural plasticity. In this article, I outline the conceptual and practical challenges of this question, review insights gleaned from adult studies, and describe recent strides toward examining this topic across development using neuroimaging methods. I suggest that development and learning are not two completely separate constructs and instead, that they exist on a continuum. While progressive and regressive changes are central to both, the behavioral consequences associated with these changes are closely tied to the existing neural architecture of maturity of the system. Eventually, a deeper, more mechanistic understanding of neural plasticity will shed light on behavioral changes across development and, more broadly, about the underlying neural basis of cognition.
To efficiently deliver genes and short hairpin RNAs to the hypothalamus we aimed to optimize the transduction efficiency of adeno-associated virus (AAV) in the rat hypothalamus. We compared the transduction efficiencies of AAV2 vectors pseudotyped with AAV1, AAV8, and mosaic AAV1/2 and AAV2/8 coats with that of an AAV2 coated vector after injection into the lateral hypothalamus of rats. In addition, we determined the transduction areas and the percentage of neurons infected after injection of various titers and volumes of two AAV1-pseudotyped vectors in the paraventricular hypothalamus (PVN). Successful gene delivery to the hypothalamus was achieved with AAV1-pseudotyped AAV vectors. The optimal approach to transduce an area, with the size of the PVN, was to inject 1 x 10(9) genomic copies of an AAV1-pseudotyped vector in a volume of 1 microl. At a radius of 0.05 mm from the injection site almost all neurons were transduced. In addition, overexpression of AgRP with the optimal approach resulted in an increase in food intake and body weight when compared with AAV-GFP.
HermesD is a high-rate, low-power wireless transmission system to aid research in neural prosthetic systems for motor disabilities and basic motor neuroscience. It is the third generation of our &quot;Hermes systems&quot; aimed at recording and transmitting neural activity from brain-implanted electrode arrays. This system supports the simultaneous transmission of 32 channels of broadband data sampled at 30 ks/s, 12 b/sample, using frequency-shift keying modulation on a carrier frequency adjustable from 3.7 to 4.1 GHz, with a link range extending over 20 m. The channel rate is 24 Mb/s and the bit stream includes synchronization and error detection mechanisms. The power consumption, approximately 142 mW, is low enough to allow the system to operate continuously for 33 h, using two 3.6-V/1200-mAh Li-SOCl2 batteries. The transmitter was designed using off-the-shelf components and is assembled in a stack of three 28 mm ? 28-mm boards that fit in a 38 mm ? 38 mm ? 51-mm aluminum enclosure, a significant size reduction over the initial version of HermesD. A 7-dBi circularly polarized patch antenna is used as the transmitter antenna, while on the receiver side, a 13-dBi circular horn antenna is employed. The advantages of using circularly polarized waves are analyzed and confirmed by indoor measurements. The receiver is a stand-alone device composed of several submodules and is interfaced to a computer for data acquisition and processing. It is based on the superheterodyne architecture and includes automatic frequency control that keeps it optimally tuned to the transmitter frequency. The HermesD communications performance is shown through bit-error rate measurements and eye-diagram plots. The sensitivity of the receiver is -83 dBm for a bit-error probability of 10(-9). Experimental recordings from a rhesus monkey conducting multiple tasks show a signal quality comparable to commercial acquisition systems, both in the low-frequency (local field potentials) and upper-frequency bands (action potentials) of the neural signals. This system can be easily scaled up in terms of the number of channels and data rate to accommodate future generations of Hermes systems.
Human heartbeat intervals are known to have nonlinear and nonstationary dynamics. In this paper, we propose a model of R-R interval dynamics based on a nonlinear Volterra-Wiener expansion within a point process framework. Inclusion of second-order nonlinearities into the heartbeat model allows us to estimate instantaneous heart rate (HR) and heart rate variability (HRV) indexes, as well as the dynamic bispectrum characterizing higher order statistics of the nonstationary non-gaussian time series. The proposed point process probability heartbeat interval model was tested with synthetic simulations and two experimental heartbeat interval datasets. Results show that our model is useful in characterizing and tracking the inherent nonlinearity of heartbeat dynamics. As a feature, the fine temporal resolution allows us to compute instantaneous nonlinearity indexes, thus sidestepping the uneven spacing problem. In comparison to other nonlinear modeling approaches, the point process probability model is useful in revealing nonlinear heartbeat dynamics at a fine timescale and with only short duration recordings.
Optical coherence tomography (OCT) has recently become one of the primary methods for noninvasive probing of the human retina. The pseudoimage formed by OCT (the so-called B-scan) varies probabilistically across pixels due to complexities in the measurement technique. Hence, sensitive automatic procedures of diagnosis using OCT may exploit statistical analysis of the spatial distribution of reflectance. In this paper, we perform a statistical study of retinal OCT data. We find that the stretched exponential probability density function can model well the distribution of intensities in OCT pseudoimages. Moreover, we show a small, but significant correlation between neighbor pixels when measuring OCT intensities with pixels of about 5 microm. We then develop a simple joint probability model for the OCT data consistent with known retinal features. This model fits well the stretched exponential distribution of intensities and their spatial correlation. In normal retinas, fit parameters of this model are relatively constant along retinal layers, but varies across layers. However, in retinas with diabetic retinopathy, large spikes of parameter modulation interrupt the constancy within layers, exactly where pathologies are visible. We argue that these results give hope for improvement in statistical pathology-detection methods even when the disease is in its early stages.
The human malarial parasite, Plasmodium falciparum, is responsible for one of the most infectious diseases of the world and is quickly gaining resistance to the commonly used antimalarial treatments. New data are continually reinforcing the idea that biological functions associated with the ubiquitin proteasome system (UPS) are not just limited to non-lysomal degradation of proteins but consist of a wide array of regulatory mechanisms such as cell cycle progression, transcriptional regulation, gene expression and trafficking. While there is much effort in understanding the UPS in many eukaryotic organisms, the Plasmodium UPS has been relatively understudied despite its potential as a therapeutic drug target. However, in vitro proteasome inhibitors studies have confirmed the essentiality of the UPS in Plasmodia with limited toxicity to human cell lines. In addition, computational studies have shown that there are a number of ubiquitinating proteins upstream of the proteasome that may serve as parasite-specific drug targets due to their variety and divergences from other eukaryotic species. In this review, we highlight the major findings about Plasmodium's UPS and discuss its possible implications as an effective and specific antimalarial target.
The hematopoietic-specific G(q) subfamily members, Galpha(16) and Galpha(14) proteins have recently been shown to be capable of stimulating the signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 (STAT3) as well as STAT1. In the present study we examined whether this activation was STAT-member specific as well as determining the possible involvement of Gbetagamma dimers. Despite clear stimulation of STAT3, the constitutively active mutants of Galpha(16) (Galpha(16)QL) and Galpha(14) (Galpha(14)QL) failed to induce the phosphorylation of several STAT family members, including STAT2, STAT4 and STAT5 in human embryonic kidney 293 cells. On the other hand, transient expression of specific combinations of Gbetagamma complexes induced STAT3 phosphorylation. Among the 48 combinations tested, 13 permutations of Gbetagamma stimulated STAT3 phosphorylation and all of them contain the neuronal-specific Ggamma(2), Ggamma(4), Ggamma(7) and Ggamma(9). These results suggested that the activation of STAT family members by Galpha(16) or Galpha(14) was selective and that distinct combinations of Gbetagamma complexes can also regulate the STAT signaling pathway.
Studies of the brain have progressed enormously through the use of in vivo and in vitro non-human models. However, it is unlikely such studies alone will unravel the complexities of the human brain and so far no neuroprotective treatment developed in animals has worked in humans. In this review we discuss the use of adult human brain cell culture methods in brain research to unravel the biology of the normal and diseased human brain. The advantages of using adult human brain cells as tools to study human brain function from both historical and future perspectives are discussed. In particular, studies using dissociated cultures of adult human microglia, astrocytes, oligodendrocytes and neurons are described and the applications of these types of study are evaluated. Alternative sources of human brain cells such as adult neural stem cells, induced pluripotent stem cells and slice cultures of adult human brain tissue are also reviewed. These adult human brain cell culture methods could benefit basic research and more importantly, facilitate the translation of basic neuroscience research to the clinic for the treatment of brain disorders.


Mechanical stimuli affect differentiation of specific cell types in several organs of mouse fetuses that develop without any skeletal musculature. To that end, we employed Myf5(-/-):MyoD(-/-) mouse embryos that completely lack skeletal musculature, and analyzed the development of sensory fields in the inner ear. Amyogenic fetuses lack skeletal muscles that move the chain of three middle ear ossicles which normally transfers sound vibrations. They also cannot tilt their head, which prevents the perception of angular acceleration. While our findings in the spiral organ of Corti are surprisingly normal, our results show that the development of cristae ampullaris, vestibular sensory fields sensitive to the angular acceleration, was the most affected. In cristae, hair cells and supporting cells were significantly smaller in the mutant embryos, but hair cells completely lacked tenascin, while supporting cells were more numerous. In maculae, supporting cells were significantly smaller but more numerous in the mutants. Here, we propose that our finding of a specific type I hair cell absence in the mutant's crista may now be employed in the identification of a profile of genes specific for the lacking cell type.



Although changes in autonomic activity have been extensively examined as responses to cognitive challenges, relatively few studies have used individual differences in autonomic parameters to predict executive performance in healthy adults. Here we examined baseline and task-related changes in heart rate and heart rate variability (measured by respiratory sinus arrhythmia (RSA)) to predict performance of a pictorial Stroop task in a group of 81 healthy adults aged 17-55. Greater autonomic reactivity (increased heart rate and reduced RSA for task performance) was associated with faster colour naming of faces in the Stroop task. Dividing the group by median age revealed that middle-aged adults reduced RSA to a greater degree than their younger counterparts in the context of equivalent performance across groups. Findings suggest that performance of executive function tasks that evoke attentional control may depend in part on the responsiveness of autonomic control parameters via age-dependent mechanisms.
A commonly used treatment for cerebral palsy in children is so-called 'conventional therapy', which includes physiotherapy or the neurodevelopmental approach. Although more intensive rehabilitative treatment is thought to be more effective than less intensive interventions, this assumption has not been proven. In this study we compared the efficacy of intensive versus nonintensive rehabilitative treatment in children with cerebral palsy. A meta-analysis of the studies published between January 1996 and July 2007 was performed. Inclusion criteria: infants/children/adolescents (1-18 years old); randomized controlled trials using, as outcome measure, the Gross Motor Function Measure score. Exclusion criteria: studies that included therapies not generally used in 'so-called' conventional treatment (i.e. constraint, taping). Treatment effects were combined using the weighted mean difference method. Fixed and random effect meta-analyses were carried out and results were compared. Heterogeneity was also assessed. Funnel plots were examined and the presence of small-study effects was tested. Intensive therapy tended to have a greater effect than nonintensive therapy (1.32; 95% confidence interval: 0.55-2.10). The effect of intensive treatment tended to be apparently stronger for children 2 years of age. Our meta-analysis shows that, in children with cerebral palsy, intensive conventional therapy may improve the functional motor outcome, but the effect size seems to be modest.
Hearing loss may lead to major changes in the social and emotional aspects of daily life. This follow-up study investigated the effect of hearing-aid use on emotional experience in adults with hearing impairment. Thirteen individuals with impaired hearing were tested before and after 6 months of hearing-aid use, and were compared with 19 individuals who had worn hearing aids for many years. The participants reported their daily emotional experiences, by completing questionnaires relating to sensory and social pleasure. After 6 months of hearing-aid use, individuals experienced more physical and social pleasure, whereas individuals using hearing aids for long periods of time reported similar levels of pleasure at the beginning and at the end of a 6-month interval. The participants also performed a visual task, in which they rated the intensity of pleasure they experienced in response to emotionally positive and neutral pictures differing in luminance contrast. In this task, pleasure typically decreases with decreasing contrast of the positive images displayed. Once they had been fitted with hearing aids, the participants reported lower levels of pleasure, especially at low contrast. These findings highlight that the anhedonia scales provide a measure sensitive to emotional improvements that accompany the partial restoration of hearing function, although these scales were not specifically designed for hearing-impaired populations. In contrast, the surprising decrease in pleasure ratings for pictures after the introduction of hearing-aid use may be because of the compensation of hearing loss by changes in visual attention functions.

Behavioral changes and cognitive decline are the core clinical manifestations in the behavioral variant of frontotemporal dementia (bv-FTD). The behavioral changes may include characteristic stereotypic movements. These movements, although without clear purpose, are not involuntary. Involuntary movements are usually not seen in FTD.Two patients with involuntary choreoathetoid movements but otherwise presenting a bv-FTD-phenotype were referred and Huntington's disease (HD) was suspected. The diagnoses of bv-FTD were made after comprehensive assessment and exclusion of other diagnoses, including HD and Huntington's disease-like (HDL) phenotypes. Although a definite diagnosis will require neuropathological confirmation, we conclude that a HDL phenotype may be part of the clinical spectrum of the bv-FTD phenotype.
In cognitive neuroscience, the reissue of the notion of emergence and downward causation has been used as an interlevel model of mind-brain interactions from different perspectives. Within this perspective, intentionality has been interpreted as global to local determination (downward causation) on the neurophysiological level. Consciousness would act as the large-scale, global activity of the system that governs or constrains local interactions of neurons. This argument seems to solve several difficulties with regard to descriptions of consciousness on a neurophysiological and mental level. Nevertheless, the inconsistencies of this argument are shown, and a contextual and pragmatic explanation of the downward causation of consciousness is given.


The effects of the cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitors roscovitine and olomoucine on DNA synthesis rate during normal rat brain development were studied by using short time (90 min) incubation. Both purine analogues at 100 microM concentration decreased the DNA synthesis of rat cerebral cortex in an age-dependent manner. The maximum inhibitory effect (approximately 90% for roscovitine, approximately 60% for olomoucine) occurred in rats of 2-13 days postnatal age. In adult rats (&gt; 60 days postnatal age), the effect of both purine analogues was low. Roscovitine even at 200 microM concentration did not inhibit the fraction of DNA synthesis insensitive to hydroxyurea (unscheduled DNA synthesis (UDS)). In addition, in the RG2 rat glioma model, roscovitine produced a strong inhibition of DNA synthesis in glioma cells when compared to adult normal tissue. Since in adult rat brain more than 60% of DNA synthesis is related to DNA repair, usually measured as UDS, our results indicate that roscovitine strongly blocks ongoing DNA synthesis connected with replicative processes.
By using mini-units of tissue and protease inhibitors in short term incubation (0-180 min), we studied the role of proteolysis for ongoing DNA replication in the developing rat cerebral cortex. The protease inhibitors TLCK, TPCK, PMSF, MG-132 and PSI markedly inhibited DNA synthesis. The inhibitory effects were concentration-dependent and of early onset (within 60 min). The most selective proteasome inhibitors lactacystin and clasto-lactacystin-beta-lactone as well as the calpain inhibitor I and II had no or minimal effects on DNA synthesis. Only high concentrations of calpain inhibitor I (&gt;or= 250 microM) and calpain inhibitor II (&gt;or= 500 microM) gave a DNA synthesis inhibition. These results suggest that (1) ongoing DNA replication is regulated by proteolysis and (2) the proteolytic pathways involved are neither the proteasome nor the calpains.



A hybrid linear ion-trap Fourier-transform ion cyclotron resonance mass spectrometer was used for top-down characterization of the abundant human salivary cystatins, including S, S1, S2, SA, SN, C, and D, using collisionally activated dissociation (CAD) after chromatographic purification of the native, disulfide intact proteins. Post-translational modifications and protein sequence polymorphisms arising from single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) were assigned from precursor and product ion masses at a tolerance of 10 ppm, allowing confident identification of individual intact mass tags. Cystatins S, S1, S2, SA, and SN were cleaved of a N-terminal 20 amino acid signal peptide and cystatin C a 26-residue peptide, to yield a generally conserved N-terminus. In contrast, cystatin D isoforms with 24 and 28 amino acid residue N-terminal truncations were found such that their N-termini were not conserved. Cystatin S1 was phosphorylated at Ser3, while S2 was phosphorylated at Ser1 and Ser3, in agreement with previous work. Both cystatin D isoforms carried the polymorphism C46R (SNP: rs1799841). The 14,328 Da isoform of cystatin SN previously assigned with polymorphism P31L due to a SNP (rs2070856) was found only in whole saliva. Parotid secretions contained no detectable cystatins while whole saliva largely mirrored the contents of submandibular/sublingual (SMSL) secretions. With fully characterized cystatin intact mass tags it will now be possible to examine the correlation between the abundance of these molecules and human health and disease.
Management of the airway is central to the practice of anesthesia. Several bedside airway assessment methods have been proposed for preoperative identification of patients who are difficult to intubate. The modified Mallampati test (MMT) remains a time-tested technique to date for recognizing an anticipated difficult tracheal intubation as assessed by Cormack-Lehane grade. Both Mallampati and its further modification by Samsoon and Young evaluate patients in the seated position. Recently a study mentioned a change in MMT score from sitting to supine position toward the higher side. However, there is a lack of data regarding the relationship of positional change in MMT with Cormack-Lehane grade. The aim of this prospective study was to assess if MMT score observed in sitting or supine position is a better predictor of difficult tracheal intubation. One hundred and twenty-three patients of ASA physical status I and II, aged 18-60 years, who were scheduled to undergo various neurosurgical procedures were enrolled for the study. We found that the MMT in supine position has a higher positive predictive value and is associated with more true positives as compared to MMT in the sitting position.
Considerable progress has been made elucidating the cellular signals and ion channel targets involved in the response to increased CO2/H+ of brain stem neurons from chemosensitive regions. Intracellular pH (pHi) does not exhibit recovery from an acid load when extracellular pH (pHo) is also acid. This lack of pHi recovery is an essential but not unique feature of all chemosensitive neurons. These neurons have pH-regulating transporters, especially Na+/H+ exchangers, but some may also contain HCO3--dependent transporters as well. Studies in locus ceruleus (LC) neurons have shown that firing rate will increase in response to decreased pHi or pHo but not in response to increased CO2 alone. A number of K+ channels, as well as other channels, have been suggested to be targets of these pH changes with a fall of pH inhibiting these channels. In neurons from some regions it appears that multiple signals and multiple channels are involved in their chemosensitive response while in neurons from other regions a single signal and/or channel may be involved. Despite the progress, a number of key issues remain to be studied. A detailed study of chemosensitive signaling needs to be done in neurons from more brain stem regions. Fully describing the chemosensitive signaling pathways in brain stem neurons will offer new targets for therapies to alter the strength of central chemosensitivity and will yield new insights into the reason why there are multiple central chemoreceptive sites.
Auditory steady state responses are neural potentials in response to repeated auditory stimuli. This study shows that electrically evoked auditory steady state responses (EASSRs) to low-rate pulse trains can be reliably recorded by electrodes placed on the scalp of a cochlear implant (CI) user and separated from the artifacts generated by the electrical stimulation. Response properties are described, and the predictive value of EASSRs for behaviorally hearing thresholds is analyzed. For six users of a Cochlear Nucleus CI, EASSRs to symmetric biphasic pulse trains with rates between 35 and 47 Hz were recorded with seven scalp electrodes. The influence of various stimulus parameters was assessed: pulse rate, stimulus intensity, monopolar or bipolar stimulation mode, and presentation of either one pulse train on one electrode or interleaved pulse trains with different pulse rates on multiple electrodes. To compensate for the electrical artifacts caused by the stimulus pulses and radio frequency transmission, different methods of artifact reduction were employed. The validity of the recorded responses was confirmed by recording on-off responses, determination of response latency across the measured pulse rates, and comparison of amplitude growth of stimulus artifact and response amplitude. For stimulation in the 40 Hz range, response latencies of 35.6 ms (SD = 5.3 ms) were obtained. Responses to multiple simultaneous stimuli on different electrodes can be evoked, and the electrophysiological thresholds determined from EASSR amplitude growth in the 40 Hz range correlate well with behaviorally determined threshold levels for pulse rates of 41 Hz.
We have shown altered expression of gamma-aminobutyric acid A (GABA(A)) and gamma-aminobutyric acid B (GABA(B)) receptors in the brains of subjects with autism. In the current study, we sought to verify our western blotting data for GABBR1 via qRT-PCR and to expand our previous work to measure mRNA and protein levels of 3 GABA(A) subunits previously associated with autism (GABRalpha4; GABRalpha5; GABRbeta1). Three GABA receptor subunits demonstrated mRNA and protein level concordance in superior frontal cortex (GABRalpha4, GABRalpha5, GABRbeta1) and one demonstrated concordance in cerebellum (GABBetaR1). These results provide further evidence of impairment of GABAergic signaling in autism.
Huntington's disease (HD) is an autosomal dominant neurodegenerative disease which is characterized by psychiatric symptoms, involuntary choreiform movements and dementia with maximum degeneration occurring in striatum and cerebral cortex. Several studies implicate mitochondrial dysfunction to the selective neurodegeneration happening in this disorder. Calcium buffering imbalance and oxidative stress in the mitochondria, critically impaired movement across axons and abnormal fission or fusion of this organelle in the cells are some of the salient features that results in the loss of mitochondrial electron transport chain (ETC) complex function in HD. Although several models involving mutant huntingtin, excitotoxins and mitochondrial complex-II inhibitors have been used to explore the disease, it is not clear how disturbances in mitochondrial functioning is associated with such selective neurodegeneration, or in the expression of huntingtonian phenotypes in animals or man. We have carefully assessed various mitochondrial abnormalities observed in human patient samples, postmortem HD brains, cellular, vertebrate and invertebrate models of the disease, to conclude that ETC dysfunction is an integral part of the disease and justify a causal role of mitochondrial ETC dysfunction for the genesis of this disorder.
Multisynaptic neural and endocrine pathways from the suprachiasmatic nucleus of the hypothalamus have been hypothesized to communicate circadian and photic information to the adrenal glands. In humans, light exposure has been reported to have no effect, increase, or decrease cortisol levels. These inconsistent findings in humans may be related to differences among studies including the intensity (approximately 500 to 5500 lux), duration (15 min to 4 h), and circadian phase of light exposure. The authors assessed the influence of exposure to bright light on cortisol levels in humans during the rising and descending phases of the circadian rhythm of cortisol, that is, when cortisol levels are high. Twenty healthy men and women were studied using a within-subject research design. Subjects were studied in an environment free of time cues for 9 to 10 days. Subjects received a 6.7-h exposure of bright light (approximately 10,000 lux; equivalent to ambient light intensity just after sunrise or just before sunset) or dim light (approximately 3 lux; equivalent to candle light) during the biological night and morning. Bright light exposure significantly reduced plasma cortisol levels at both circadian phases studied, whereas dim light exposure had little effect on cortisol levels. The finding of an acute suppressive effect of bright light exposure on cortisol levels supports the existence of a mechanism by which photic information can acutely influence the human adrenal glands.
During the hibernation season, mammalian hibernators alternate between prolonged bouts of torpor with a reduced body temperature (Tb) and short arousals with a return to euthermy. Evidence is presented here to show that this metabolic-and also physiological and neuroanatomical-rhythm is controlled by a clock, the torpor-arousal (TA) clock. The temperature dependence of torpor bout duration in 3 species of Spermophilus (published data) may be described by assuming that the TA clock is a circadian clock (probably not the suprachiasmatic clock) that has lost its temperature compensation. This loss might result either from a permanent deletion, or more likely from a seasonal epigenetic control at the level of the clock gene machinery. This hypothesis was verified over the full Tb range on published data from 5 other species (a monotreme, a marsupial, and 3 placental mammals). In a hibernation season, instantaneous subjective time of the putative TA clock was summated over each torpor bout. For each animal, torpor bout length (TBL) was accurately predicted as a constant fraction of a subjective day, for actual durations in astronomical time varying between 4 and 13 to 20 days. The resulting temperature dependence of the interval between arousals predicts that energy expenditure over the hibernation season will be minimal when Tb is as low as possible without eliciting cold thermogenesis.
Therapeutic hypothermia is a means of neuroprotection well established in the management of acute ischemic brain injuries such as anoxic encephalopathy after cardiac arrest and perinatal asphyxia. As such, it is the only neuroprotective strategy for which there is robust evidence for efficacy. Although there is overwhelming evidence from animal studies that cooling also improves outcome after focal cerebral ischemia, this has not been adequately tested in patients with acute ischemic stroke. There are still some uncertainties about crucial factors relating to the delivery of hypothermia, and the resolution of these would allow improvements in the design of phase III studies in these patients and improvements in the prospects for successful translation. In this study, we discuss critical issues relating first to the targets for therapy including the optimal depth and duration of cooling, second to practical issues including the methods of cooling and the management of shivering, and finally, of factors relating to the design of clinical trials. Consideration of these factors should inform the development of strategies to establish beyond doubt the place of hypothermia in the management of acute ischemic stroke.
Transient compression of rat somatosensory cortex has been reported to affect cerebral microvasculature and sensory function simultaneously. However, the effects of long-term cortical compression remain unknown. Here, we investigated whether and to what extent sustained but moderate epidural compression of rat somatosensory cortex impairs somatic sensation and/or cortical microvasculature. Electrophysiological and behavioral tests revealed that sustained compression caused only short-term sensory deficit, particularly at 1 day after injury. Although the diameter of cortical microvessels was coincidentally reduced, no ischemic insult was observed. By measuring Evans Blue and immunoglobulin G extravasation, the blood-brain barrier (BBB) permeability was found to dramatically increase during 1 to 3 days, but this did not lead to brain edema. Furthermore, immunoblotting showed that the BBB component proteins occludin, claudin-5, type IV collagen, and glial fibrillary acidic protein were markedly upregulated in the injured cortex during 1 to 2 weeks when BBB regained integrity. Conversely, treatment of ascorbic acid prevented compression-induced BBB disruption and sensory impairment. Together, these data suggest that sustained compression of the somatosensory cortex compromises BBB integrity and somatic sensation only in the early period. Ascorbic acid may be used therapeutically to modulate cortical compression and/or BBB dysfunction.
Presurgical evaluation of children with mesial temporal sclerosis has shown severe neurocognitive impairments. There is debate about lateralized material-specific deficits in memory in children with mesial temporal sclerosis. The authors examined lateralization of brain dysfunction and age appropriate development of cognitive functions in 17 children (7-15 years) with mesial temporal sclerosis who had histories of uncontrolled epilepsy. The National Institute of Mental Health and Neurosciences (NIMHANS) neuropsychological battery for children was employed and each participant's performance was compared with the norms. Results showed that the battery was sensitive to deficits in learning and memory associated with mesial temporal sclerosis. However, a lack of clearly lateralized material-specific memory deficits in children with left/right mesial temporal sclerosis was also observed. Performance on tests that assess learning, attention, working memory, and visuospatial functions was found to be below the age appropriate level. Children with mesial temporal sclerosis showed widely distributed neuropsychological deficits.
Acute chemotherapy-related leukoencephalopathy can present similar to acute stroke with symptoms including aphasia, dysarthria, and hemiplegia. Differentiation based on clinical appearance is challenging, and physicians must distinguish between the 2 conditions rapidly to institute appropriate therapies. An 8-year-old male with acute lymphoblastic leukemia receiving chemotherapy, including intrathecal methotrexate, presented to our emergency center with 2 hours of expressive aphasia and flaccid right hemiplegia. Emergent magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) was obtained, demonstrating diffusion restriction within bilateral corona radiata and centrum semiovale. Magnetic resonance perfusion revealed mildly increased perfusion, a finding inconsistent with ischemic stroke and previously unreported in acute chemotherapy-related leukoencephalopathy without necrosis. This increased perfusion conclusively eliminated stroke from the clinical differential. Magnetic resonance perfusion imaging proved valuable to rapidly distinguish acute chemotherapy-related leukoencephalopathy from ischemia, and the evaluation of perfusion alterations in this disorder may provide further insight into the pathophysiology of this entity.
A 17-month-old infant presented with a 2-week history of lethargy, anorexia, and an abnormal respiratory pattern on a previous 4-month history of hypotonia and gross motor delay, suggesting a clinical phenotype of Leigh syndrome. The patient experienced no epileptic seizures. Biochemical investigations were normal other than showing evidence of inappropriate secretion of antidiuretic hormone, and cerebral magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) showed symmetrical lesions in the cervical cord and lower brain stem. Initial screening investigations for a mitochondrial cytopathy were negative. Muscle histochemistry demonstrated reduced staining of cytochrome c oxidase but no ragged red fibers. Blood and muscle-derived DNA demonstrated a high level (92% and 82%, respectively) of the m.8344A&gt;G mutation seen in patients with the mitochondrial cytopathy, ''myoclonic epilepsy with ragged red fibers on muscle biopsy.'' This infant's early presentation including inappropriate antidiuretic secretion due to presumed renal salt loss and rapid course appears to be unique to this mutation.
The aim of this study is to characterize and compare dipole and distributed EEG source localization (ESL) of interictal epileptiform discharges (IEDs) in focal epilepsy. Single and averaged scalp IEDs from eight patients-four with benign focal epilepsy of childhood with centrotemporal spikes (BFEC) and four with mesial temporal lobe epilepsy (MTLE)-underwent independent component analysis (ICA) from IED onset to peak. The boundary element method forward model was applied to one of four inverse models: two dipolar-moving regularized, rotating nonregularized and two distributed-standardized low-resolution electromagnetic tomography with rotating cortical sources or with fixed extended sources. Solutions were studied at IED onset, midupswing, peak; ESL strength maxima; ESL residual deviation minima (best fit). From 11,040 ESL parameter points and 960 ESL maps, best-fit dipole and distributed solutions fell at the IED midupswing in BFEC and MTLE when the dominant ICA component typically peaked, localizing to the lower Rolandic sulcus in BFEC and to basolateral or anterior temporal cortex in MTLE. Single-to-averaged ESL variability was high in MTLE. Dipole and distributed ESL are complementary; best-fit solutions for both occupy the IED midupswing and not the IED peak. ICA, a &quot;blind&quot; statistical operation, aids clinical interpretation of ESL fit quality. Single-to-averaged IED localization discordance can be high, a problem warranting further scrutiny if ESL is to earn a place in routine epilepsy care.
The objective of this study is to investigate the frequency, magnitude, and nature of peripheral nerve dysfunction in patients with cystic fibrosis (CF). Consecutive CF patients above the age of 3 years were recruited from the pediatric gastroenterology clinic. Twenty-five patients, 14 boys and 11 girls, were included, with mean age of 10.7 +/- 5.6 years. Nerve conduction studies were performed on the peroneal and median motor nerves, and median, ulnar and sural sensory nerves on one side. Fourteen patients (56%), 9 boys and 5 girls, had abnormal findings. All abnormalities were in the sensory nerves. Ulnar sensory nerve was abnormal in 48% of patients, sural sensory nerve in 44% of patients, and median sensory nerve in 28% of patients. Amplitudes were affected in all abnormal studies, associated with prolonged latencies in 20% of sural responses, 8% of ulnar responses, and 4% of median responses. Ten patients (40%) fulfilled the minimum case definition criterion for electrodiagnostic confirmation of distal polyneuropathy. Concordant abnormalities in three nerves were found in five patients (20%). The presence of neuropathy was not related to sex, age, type of CF symptoms, body mass index, or disease duration. In conclusion, CF is associated with peripheral nerve dysfunction, which is mostly sensory with an axonal trend. Care takers of patients with CF should be aware of the potential peripheral neurologic problems associated with the disease, especially with the improving survival of these patients.
Magnetoencephalography noninvasively measures the magnetic fields produced by the brain. Pertinent research articles from 1993 to 2009 that measured spontaneous, whole-head magnetoencephalography activity in patients with schizophrenia were reviewed. Data on localization of oscillatory activity and correlation of these findings with psychotic symptoms are summarized. Although the variety of measures used by different research groups makes a quantitative meta-analysis difficult, it appears that magnetoencephalography activity in patients may exhibit identifiable patterns, defined by topographic organization and frequency band. Specifically, 11 of the 12 studies showed increased theta (4-8 Hz) and delta (1-4 Hz) band oscillations in the temporal lobes of patients; of the 10 studies that examined the relationship between oscillatory activity and symptomatology, 8 found a positive correlation between temporal lobe theta activity and positive schizophrenic symptoms. Abnormally high frontal delta activity was not seen. These findings are analyzed in comparison with the electroencephalogram literature on schizophrenics, and possible confounds (e.g., medication effects) are discussed. In the future, magnetoencephalography might be used to assist in diagnosis or might be fruitfully used in conjunction with new neuroscience research approaches such as computational modeling, which may be able to link oscillatory activity and cellular-level pathology.
Symptomatic vertebral hemangiomas (SVH) are difficult to treat and many therapeutic options, including surgery, radiotherapy, arterial embolization, and injection of methyl-methacrylate into hemagiomatous vertebrae have been reported. Alcohol ablation of vertebral hemangiomas is an effective management option; however, a literature search did not reveal any reports of anesthetic complications or hemodynamic instability during and report a series of four males and seven females and report hemodynamic variations observed at the time of injection of absolute ethanol under general anesthetic, for the treatment of SVH. The median age of the patients was 20 years (range, 10-36 years), and median weight was 45 kg (range, 30-70 kg). All patients developed transient hypotension and bradycardia at the time of alcohol injection (8-10 mL of absolute alcohol). No patient required intervention with vagolytics or vasopressors. It is likely that the administration of alcohol in small aliquots prevented any major consequences. Moreover, patients under general anesthesia are at lower risk than those receiving monitored sedation, with better control over hemodynamics.



For our adaptive behavior in a dynamically changing environment, an essential task of the brain is to automatically encode sequential regularities inherent in the environment into a memory representation. Recent studies in neuroscience have suggested that sequential regularities embedded in discrete sensory events are automatically encoded into a memory representation at the level of the sensory system. This notion is largely supported by evidence from investigations using auditory mismatch negativity (auditory MMN), an event-related brain potential (ERP) correlate of an automatic memory-mismatch process in the auditory sensory system. However, it is still largely unclear whether or not this notion can be generalized to other sensory modalities. The purpose of the present study was to investigate the contribution of the visual sensory system to the automatic encoding of sequential regularities using visual mismatch negativity (visual MMN), an ERP correlate of an automatic memory-mismatch process in the visual sensory system. To this end, we conducted a sequential analysis of visual MMN in an oddball sequence consisting of infrequent deviant and frequent standard stimuli, and tested whether the underlying memory representation of visual MMN generation contains only a sensory memory trace of standard stimuli (trace-mismatch hypothesis) or whether it also contains sequential regularities extracted from the repetitive standard sequence (regularity-violation hypothesis). The results showed that visual MMN was elicited by first deviant (deviant stimuli following at least one standard stimulus), second deviant (deviant stimuli immediately following first deviant), and first standard (standard stimuli immediately following first deviant), but not by second standard (standard stimuli immediately following first standard). These results are consistent with the regularity-violation hypothesis, suggesting that the visual sensory system automatically encodes sequential regularities. In combination with a wide range of auditory MMN studies, the present study highlights the critical role of sensory systems in automatically encoding sequential regularities when modeling the world.
Motion-induced blindness (MIB) is a visual phenomenon in which highly salient visual targets spontaneously disappear from visual awareness (and subsequently reappear) when superimposed on a moving background of distracters. Such fluctuations in awareness of the targets, although they remain physically present, provide an ideal paradigm to study the neural correlates of visual awareness. Existing behavioral data on MIB are consistent both with a role for structures early in visual processing and with involvement of high-level visual processes. To further investigate this issue, we used high field functional MRI to investigate signals in human low-level visual cortex and motion-sensitive area V5/MT while participants reported disappearance and reappearance of an MIB target. Surprisingly, perceptual invisibility of the target was coupled to an increase in activity in low-level visual cortex plus area V5/MT compared with when the target was visible. This increase was largest in retinotopic regions representing the target location. One possibility is that our findings result from an active process of completion of the field of distracters that acts locally in the visual cortex, coupled to a more global process that facilitates invisibility in general visual cortex. Our findings show that the earliest anatomical stages of human visual cortical processing are implicated in MIB, as with other forms of bistable perception.
Hypothalamic gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH) neurons originate in the olfactory placode and migrate to the forebrain during embryonic development. We found that GnRH neurons migrated in two different modes in the chick medial telencephalon: they initially underwent axophilic migration in association with a subset of olfactory fibers in a dorsocaudal direction. This was followed by ventrally directed tangential migration to the basal forebrain. Since many of the ventrally migrating GnRH neurons did not follow distinct fiber fascicles, it is proposed that diffusible guidance molecules played a role in this migratory process. A long-range diffusible factor, netrin 1, was expressed in the lower part of the commissural plate and the subpallial septum, but not along the axophilic migratory route of GnRH neurons. Failure of ventrally directed migration of GnRH neurons and their misrouting to the dorsomedial forebrain was induced by misexpression of netrin 1 in the dorsocaudal part of the septum near the top of the commissural plate, which is where the migration of GnRH neurons changed to a ventral direction. In such cases, a subset of olfactory fibers also extended, but close contact between aberrant fibers and misrouted GnRH neurons did not exist. A coculture experiment demonstrated that netrin 1 exerts an attractive effect on migrating GnRH neurons. These results provide evidence that netrin 1 acts as chemoattractant to migrating GnRH neurons at the dorsocaudal part of the septum and has the potential to regulate the ventral migration of GnRH neurons to the ventral septum and the preoptic area.
Neuropeptides play a major role in the modulation of information processing in neural networks. Somatostatin, one of the most concentrated neuropeptides in the brain, is found in many sensory systems including the olfactory pathway. However, its cellular distribution in the mouse main olfactory bulb (MOB) is yet to be characterized. Here we show that approximately 95% of mouse bulbar somatostatin-immunoreactive (SRIF-ir) cells describe a homogeneous population of interneurons. These are restricted to the inner lamina of the external plexiform layer (iEPL) with dendritic field strictly confined to the region. iEPL SRIF-ir neurons share some morphological features of Van Gehuchten short-axon cells, and always express glutamic acid decarboxylase, calretinin, and vasoactive intestinal peptide. One-half of SRIF-ir neurons are parvalbumin-ir, revealing an atypical neurochemical profile when compared to SRIF-ir interneurons of other forebrain regions such as cortex or hippocampus. Somatostatin is also present in fibers and in a few sparse presumptive deep short-axon cells in the granule cell layer (GCL), which were previously reported in other mammalian species. The spatial distribution of somatostatin interneurons in the MOB iEPL clearly outlines the region where lateral dendrites of mitral cells interact with GCL inhibitory interneurons through dendrodendritic reciprocal synapses. Symmetrical and asymmetrical synaptic contacts occur between SRIF-ir dendrites and mitral cell dendrites. Such restricted localization of somatostatin interneurons and connectivity in the bulbar synaptic network strongly suggest that the peptide plays a functional role in the modulation of olfactory processing.
The high-affinity choline transporter (CHT) is a protein integral to the function of cholinergic neurons in the central nervous system (CNS). We examined the ultrastructural distribution of CHT in axonal arborizations of the mesopontine tegmental cholinergic neurons, a cell group in which CHT expression has yet to be characterized at the electron microscopic level. By using silver-enhanced immunogold detection, we compared the morphological characteristics of CHT-immunoreactive axon varicosities specifically within the anteroventral thalamus (AVN) and the ventral tegmental area (VTA). We found that CHT-immunoreactive axon varicosities in the AVN displayed a smaller cross-sectional area and a lower frequency of synapse formation and dense-cored vesicle content than CHT-labeled profiles in the VTA. We further examined the subcellular distribution of CHT and observed that immunoreactivity for this protein was predominantly localized to synaptic vesicles and minimally to the plasma membrane of axons in both regions. This pattern is consistent with the subcellular distribution of CHT displayed in other cholinergic systems. Axons in the AVN showed significantly higher levels of CHT immunoreactivity than those in the VTA and correspondingly displayed a higher level of membrane CHT labeling. These novel findings have important implications for elucidating regional differences in cholinergic signaling within the thalamic and brainstem targets of the mesopontine cholinergic system.
Daily variations in behaviour and physiology are controlled by a circadian timing system consisting of a network of oscillatory structures. In mammals, a master clock, located in the suprachiasmatic nuclei (SCN) of the hypothalamus, adjusts timing of other self-sustained oscillators in the brain and peripheral organs. Synchronisation to external cues is mainly achieved by ambient light, which resets the SCN clock. Other environmental factors, in particular food availability and time of feeding, also influence internal timing. Timed feeding can reset the phase of the peripheral oscillators whilst having almost no effect in shifting the phase of the SCN clockwork when animals are exposed (synchronised) to a light-dark cycle. Food deprivation and calorie restriction lead not only to loss of body mass (&gt;15%) and increased motor activity, but also affect the timing of daily activity, nocturnal animals becoming partially diurnal (i.e. they are active during their usual sleep period). This change in behavioural timing is due in part to the fact that metabolic cues associated with calorie restriction affect the SCN clock and its synchronisation to light.
Neurons in the neocortex receive a large number of excitatory and inhibitory synaptic inputs. Excitation and inhibition dynamically balance each other, with inhibition lagging excitation by only few milliseconds. To characterize the functional consequences of such correlated excitation and inhibition, we studied models in which this correlation structure is induced by feedforward inhibition (FFI). Simple circuits show that an effective FFI changes the integrative behavior of neurons such that only synchronous inputs can elicit spikes, causing the responses to be sparse and precise. Further, effective FFI increases the selectivity for propagation of synchrony through a feedforward network, thereby increasing the stability to background activity. Last, we show that recurrent random networks with effective inhibition are more likely to exhibit dynamical network activity states as have been observed in vivo. Thus, when a feedforward signal path is embedded in such recurrent network, the stabilizing effect of effective inhibition creates an suitable substrate for signal propagation. In conclusion, correlated excitation and inhibition support the notion that synchronous spiking may be important for cortical processing.
Dopaminergic (DA) neurons of the mammalian midbrain exhibit unusually low firing frequencies in vitro. Furthermore, injection of depolarizing current induces depolarization block before high frequencies are achieved. The maximum steady and transient rates are about 10 and 20 Hz, respectively, despite the ability of these neurons to generate bursts at higher frequencies in vivo. We use a three-compartment model calibrated to reproduce DA neuron responses to several pharmacological manipulations to uncover mechanisms of frequency limitation. The model exhibits a slow oscillatory potential (SOP) dependent on the interplay between the L-type Ca(2+) current and the small conductance K(+) (SK) current that is unmasked by fast Na(+) current block. Contrary to previous theoretical work, the SOP does not pace the steady spiking frequency in our model. The main currents that determine the spontaneous firing frequency are the subthreshold L-type Ca(2+) and the A-type K(+) currents. The model identifies the channel densities for the fast Na(+) and the delayed rectifier K(+) currents as critical parameters limiting the maximal steady frequency evoked by a depolarizing pulse. We hypothesize that the low maximal steady frequencies result from a low safety factor for action potential generation. In the model, the rate of Ca(2+) accumulation in the distal dendrites controls the transient initial frequency in response to a depolarizing pulse. Similar results are obtained when the same model parameters are used in a multi-compartmental model with a realistic reconstructed morphology, indicating that the salient contributions of the dendritic architecture have been captured by the simpler model.

Adults are skilled at perceiving subjective contours in regions without any local image information (e.g., Ginsburg, 1975; Kanizsa, 1976). Here we examined the development of this skill and the effect thereon of the support ratio (i.e., the ratio of the physically specified contours to the total contour length). Children (6-, 9-, and 12-year-olds) and adults discriminated between fat and skinny shapes formed by subjective or luminance-defined contours. By 9 years of age, children were as sensitive as adults to small differences in luminance-defined contours, but not until 12 years of age were children as sensitive as adults in performing the same task with subjective contours. Remarkably, 6-year-olds' sensitivity to subjective contours was independent of the support ratio, unlike that of older children and adults. The results suggest that, during middle childhood, the interpolation of subjective contours becomes tied to the support ratio, so that contours that are more likely to reflect the contours of real objects (i.e., highly supported contours) are more easily interpolated.
Mechanisms by which poor relationship functioning contributes to poor health are not fully understood. We conducted a study to evaluate the association between marital distress and the metabolic syndrome (MetS), which refers to a clustering of characteristics that have individually been shown to be associated with elevated risk of cardiovascular disease and diabetes and which collectively have been shown to increase risk for cardiovascular disease, diabetes, stroke, and mortality. A population-based English sample of couples (N = 671 couples) in which both partners were between the ages of 52 and 79 years old completed a self-report measure of marital distress and a nurse visit that included collection of blood pressure, blood samples, and anthropometric measures. Results indicated that for women, after controlling for demographic variables, greater marital distress was significantly associated with increasing likelihood of meeting criteria for the MetS and with the individual MetS criteria of elevated blood pressure and elevated fasting glucose. The association between marital distress and the MetS remained significant for women when additionally controlling for depressive symptoms and health habits (smoking status, physical activity). Marital distress was not significantly associated with the MetS or any of the individual MetS criteria for men.
The calyx of Held (CoH) synapse serves as a model system to analyze basic mechanisms of synaptic transmission. Astrocyte processes are part of the synaptic structure and contact both pre- and postsynaptic membranes. In the medial nucleus of the trapezoid body (MNTB), midline stimulation evoked a current response that was not mediated by glutamate receptors or glutamate uptake, despite the fact that astrocytes express functional receptors and transporters. However, astrocytes showed spontaneous Ca(2+) responses and neuronal slow inward currents (nSICs) were recorded in the postsynaptic principal neurons (PPNs) of the MNTB. These currents were correlated with astrocytic Ca(2+) activity because dialysis of astrocytes with BAPTA abolished nSICs. Moreover, the frequency of these currents was increased when Ca(2+) responses in astrocytes were elicited. NMDA antagonists selectively blocked nSICs while D-serine degradation significantly reduced NMDA-mediated currents. In contrast to previous studies in the hippocampus, these NMDA-mediated currents were rarely synchronized.
KCNQ1 channels assemble with KCNE1 transmembrane (TM) peptides to form voltage-gated K(+) channel complexes with slow activation gate opening. The cytoplasmic C-terminal domain that abuts the KCNE1 TM segment has been implicated in regulating KCNQ1 gating, yet its interaction with KCNQ1 has not been described. Here, we identified a protein-protein interaction between the KCNE1 C-terminal domain and the KCNQ1 S6 activation gate and S4-S5 linker. Using cysteine cross-linking, we biochemically screened over 300 cysteine pairs in the KCNQ1-KCNE1 complex and identified three residues in KCNQ1 (H363C, P369C, and I257C) that formed disulfide bonds with cysteine residues in the KCNE1 C-terminal domain. Statistical analysis of cross-link efficiency showed that H363C preferentially reacted with KCNE1 residues H73C, S74C, and D76C, whereas P369C showed preference for only D76C. Electrophysiological investigation of the mutant K(+) channel complexes revealed that the KCNQ1 residue, H363C, formed cross-links not only with KCNE1 subunits, but also with neighboring KCNQ1 subunits in the complex. Cross-link formation involving the H363C residue was state dependent, primarily occurring when the KCNQ1-KCNE1 complex was closed. Based on these biochemical and electrophysiological data, we generated a closed-state model of the KCNQ1-KCNE1 cytoplasmic region where these protein-protein interactions are poised to slow activation gate opening.
The aim of the study was to evaluate the association between sleep disturbance and headache type and frequency, in a random sample of participants in the third Nord-Trndelag Health Survey. The headache diagnoses were set by neurologists using the ICHD-2 criteria performing a semi structured face-to-face interview. Sleep problems were measured by the two validated instruments Karolinska Sleep Questionnaire (KSQ) and Epworth Sleepiness Scale (ESS). Among 297 participants, 77 subjects were headache-free, whereas 135 were diagnosed with tension-type headache (TTH), 51 with migraine, and 34 with other headache diagnoses. In the multivariate analyses, using logistic regression, excessive daytime sleepiness, defined as ESS &gt;or= 10, was three times more likely among migraineurs compared with headache-free individuals (OR = 3.3, 95% CI 1.0-10.2). Severe sleep disturbances, defined as KSQ score in the upper quartile, was five times more likely among migraineurs (OR = 5.4, 95% CI 2.0-15.5), and three times more likely for subjects with TTH (OR = 3.3, 1.4-7.3) compared with headache-free individuals. Subjects with chronic headache were 17 times more likely to have severe sleep disturbances (OR = 17.4, 95% CI 5.1-59.8), and the association was somewhat stronger for chronic migraine (OR = 38.9, 95% CI 3.1-485.3) than for chronic TTH (OR = 18.3, 95% CI 3.6-93.0). In conclusion, there was a significant association between severe sleep disturbances and primary headache disorders, most pronounced for those with chronic headache. Even though one cannot address causality in the present study design, the results indicate an increased awareness of sleep problems among patients with headache.
Genetic mutations that severely diminish the activity of aspartoacylase (ASPA) result in the fatal brain dysmyelinating disorder, Canavan disease. There is no effective treatment. ASPA produces free acetate from the concentrated brain metabolite, N-acetylaspartate (NAA). Because acetyl coenzyme A is a key building block for lipid synthesis, we postulated that the inability to catabolize NAA leads to a brain acetate deficiency during a critical period of CNS development, impairing myelination and possibly other aspects of brain development. We tested the hypothesis that acetate supplementation during postnatal myelination would ameliorate the severe phenotype associated with ASPA deficiency using the tremor rat model of Canavan disease. Glyceryltriacetate (GTA) was administered orally to tremor rats starting 7 days after birth, and was continued in food and water after weaning. Motor function, myelin lipids, and brain vacuolation were analyzed in GTA-treated and untreated tremor rats. Significant improvements were observed in motor performance and myelin galactocerebroside content in tremor rats treated with GTA. Further, brain vacuolation was modestly reduced, and these reductions were positively correlated with improved motor performance. We also examined the expression of the acetyl coenzyme A synthesizing enzyme acetyl coenzyme A synthase 1 and found upregulation of expression in tremor rats, with a return to near normal expression levels in GTA-treated tremor rats. These results confirm the critical role played by NAA-derived acetate in brain myelination and development, and demonstrate the potential usefulness of acetate therapy for the treatment of Canavan disease.

Cerebral toxoplasmosis remains one of the most common focal brain lesions in patients with acquired immune deficiency syndrome (AIDS). Diagnosis is a challenge because on cranial imaging it closely mimics central nervous system lymphoma, primary and metastatic central nervous system (CNS) tumors, or other intracranial infections like tuberculoma or abscesses. A magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) feature on postcontrast T1-weighted sequences considered pathognomonic of toxoplasmosis is the &quot;eccentric target sign.&quot; The pathological correlate of this imaging sign has been speculative. Herein we correlate the underlying histopathology to the MR feature of eccentric target sign in a patient with autopsy-proven HIV/AIDS-related cerebral toxoplasmosis. The central enhancing core of the target seen on MRI was produced by a leash of inflamed vessels extending down the length of the sulcus that was surrounded by concentric zones of necrosis and a wall composed of histiocytes and proliferating blood vessels, with impaired permeability producing the peripheral enhancing rim.

Extensive evidence supports the notion that the cytoskeleton participates in the immobilization and membrane clustering of the nicotinic acetylcholine receptor (AChR) at the neuromuscular junction. Stimulated emission depletion fluorescence microscopy has revealed the supramolecular organization of AChR nanoclusters at the surface of CHO-K1/A5 cells with subdiffraction resolution (Kellner et al., Neuroscience 144:135-143 2007). We studied the effect of two cytoskeletal-disrupting drugs (cytochalasin D and jasplakinolide) on the nanoscale distribution of muscle-type AChR expressed in these cells by means of mathematical and statistical analysis of images obtained with the same high-resolution microscopy. AChR nanoclusters were found to be randomly distributed in both controls and cells treated with either drug for distances larger than 500 nm. Treatments altered the distribution of AChR nanoclusters according to their brightness/size. Cytochalasin D and jasplakinolide produced a statistically significant increase in the proportion of medium-size nanoclusters and a diminution of small nanoclusters, indicating higher disrupting activity on the latter. This was further corroborated by the diminution of the brightness/diameter ratio of nanoclusters (a measure of the intracluster density of AChR molecules) and by Ripley's analysis applied to simulated patterns with intracluster aggregation of AChR molecules. The combined analytical tools bring out subtle changes in the two-dimensional organization of the AChR nanoaggregates on disruption of the cytoskeletal network and throw light on the possible link between the cytoskeleton and the distribution of the AChR at the cell surface.
The involvement of microRNAs (miRNAs) in the development of the neural crest (NC) cells and other neuronal differentiation is still poorly understood. Here, we investigated the global function of miRNAs in embryonic development by examining the Wnt1-cre-mediated Dicer knockout mice. Dicer ablation resulted in malformation of the midbrain and cerebellum and failure of NC and dopaminergic differentiation. First, the Dicer mutant fetuses exhibited dramatic malformation of the tectum and cerebellum and the eyelids were open. Second, the skeletal structures that are derived from the cranial NC were lost or mostly ablated in Dicer mutant mice. Third, deletion of Dicer in the NC cells resulted in the malformation of the dorsal root ganglia, enteric nervous system and sympathetic ganglia. Interestingly, the expression of neuropeptide Y and its potential regulators TrkA, AP-2alpha and AP-2beta was largely abolished in sympathetic neurons of Dicer mutant mice. Fourth, in situ hybridization data revealed that the expression of miR-9, miR-124 and miR-218 in the midbrain and rostral hindbrain area was mostly eliminated in the Dicer mutant mice. We then demonstrated that the development of dopaminergic neurons was impaired in Dicer-deleted mice. Our studies therefore suggest that miRNAs contribute to the embryonic development in multiple locations.
Synapsins are a family of neuron-specific phosphoproteins involved in synaptic vesicle docking, synaptogenesis, and synaptic plasticity. Previous studies have reported an increase in synapsin II protein by dopaminergic agents in the striatum, medial prefrontal cortex, and nucleus accumbens. This study investigated the mechanistic pathway involved in synapsin II regulation by dopaminergic drugs using primary midbrain neurons to determine which of several transcription factors regulates synapsin II expression. Protein kinase A (PKA) participation in the signaling pathway was examined using selective PKA inhibitors, which reduced synapsin II expression in cell cultures while dopaminergic agents were unable to increase synapsin II in the presence of the PKA inhibitor. Transcription factor involvement was further investigated using separate cultures treated with antisense deoxyoligonucleotides (ADONs) against the following transcription factors: activating protein 2 alpha (AP-2alpha), early growth response factor 1 (EGR-1), or polyoma enhancer activator-3 (PEA-3). Selective knockdown of AP-2alpha by ADONs reduced synapsin II levels, whereas treatment with EGR-1 and PEA-3 ADONs did not affect synapsin II expression. Furthermore, dopaminergic agents were no longer able to influence synapsin II concentrations following AP-2alpha knockdown. Collectively, these results indicate that a cyclic adenosine-3',5'-monophosphate/PKA-dependent mechanism involving the AP-2alpha transcription factor is likely responsible for the increase in neuronal synapsin II following dopamine D1 receptor stimulation or dopamine D2 receptor inhibition.
About one third of all known human proteins are membrane proteins, which constitute several large families. The solute carriers with over 300 known members are probably the second largest family with additional members frequently being identified. We recently found a new putative solute carrier, C6ORF192, belonging to the major facilitator superfamily type of proteins. The gene is evolutionary highly conserved with a single copy present in each of the genomes from mouse, rat, chicken, zebrafish, tetraodon, Caenorhabditis elegans, and Drosophila melanogaster. C6ORF192 forms a novel evolutionary branch of solute carriers and is most closely related to the solute carrier families 16, 17, and 18, all members of the major facilitator superfamily. Ten of the 25 members of these families show amino acid identity with C6ORF192 ranging from 21% to 27%. C6ORF192 differs however, structurally from these families and does not share key motifs in the transmembrane domains. Expression profiling by quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction and in situ hybridization showed that C6ORF192 transcript can be detected in several tissues, both in the central nervous system and the periphery.
This study investigated similarities and differences in the experience of auditory hallucinations, paranoia, and childhood trauma in schizophrenia and borderline personality disorder (BPD). Patients with clinical diagnoses of schizophrenia or BPD were interviewed using the Structured Clinical Interviews for DSM-IV. Axes 1 and 2 and auditory hallucinations, paranoia, and childhood trauma were assessed. A total of 111 patients participated; 59 met criteria for schizophrenia, 33 for BPD, and 19 for both. The groups were similar in their experiences of voices, including the perceived location of them, but they differed in frequency of paranoid delusions. Those with a diagnosis of BPD, including those with schizophrenia comorbidity, reported more childhood trauma, especially emotional abuse. BPD and schizophrenia frequently coexist, and this comorbidity has implications for diagnostic classification and treatment. Levels of reported childhood trauma are especially high in those with a BPD diagnosis, whether they have schizophrenia or not, and this requires assessment and appropriate management.

The role of the ATP-gated receptor, P2X(7), has been evaluated in the unilateral 6-OHDA rat model of Parkinson's disease using the P2X(7) competitive antagonist A-438079. Nigral P2X(7) immunoreactivity was mainly located in microglia but also in astroglia. A-438079 partially but significantly prevented the 6-OHDA-induced depletion of striatal DA stores. However, this was not associated with a reduction of DA cell loss. Blockade of P2X(7) receptors may represent a novel protective strategy for striatal DA terminals in Parkinson's disease and warrants further future investigation.

Cerebral gene expression is known to be significantly influenced by a sublethal ischemic event (pre-conditioning; PC) that induces tolerance to future damaging ischemic events. Small non-coding RNAs known as microRNAs (miRNAs) were recently shown to control the mRNA translation. We currently profiled cerebral miRNAs in the cerebral cortex of rats subjected to PC. The miRNAome reacted quickly and by 6 h following PC, levels of 51 miRNAs were altered (26 up- and 25 down-regulated; &gt; 1.5-fold change). Twenty of these stayed at the altered level even at 3 days after PC. At least nine miRNAs showed &gt; 5-fold change at one or more time points between 6 h to 3 days after PC compared with sham. Bioinformatics analysis showed 2007 common targets of the miRNAs that were up-regulated and 459 common targets of the miRNAs that were down-regulated after PC. Pathways analysis showed that MAP-kinase and Mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR) signaling are the top two Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes pathways targeted by the up-regulated miRNAs, and Wnt and GnRH signaling are the top two Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes pathways targeted by the down-regulated miRNAs after PC. We hypothesize that alterations in miRNAs and their down-stream mRNAs of signaling pathways might play a role in the induction of ischemic tolerance.
Increasing evidence suggests that glucagon-like peptide-1 (GLP-1), an incretin hormone of current interest in type 2 diabetes, is neuroprotective in both cell culture and animal models. To characterize the neuroprotective properties of GLP-1 and associated underlying mechanisms, we over-expressed the GLP-1 receptor (GLP-1R) on human neuroblastoma SH-SY5Y cells to generate a neuronal culture system featuring enhanced GLP-1R signaling. In GLP-1R over-expressing SH-SY5Y (SH-hGLP-1R#9) cells, GLP-1 and the long-acting agonist exendin-4 stimulated cell proliferation and increased cell viability by 2-fold at 24 h at physiologically relevant concentrations. This GLP-1R-dependent action was mediated via the protein kinase A and phosphoinositide 3-kinase signaling pathways, with the MAPK pathway playing a minor role. GLP-1 and exendin-4 pretreatment dose-dependently protected SH-hGLP-1R#9 cells from hydrogen peroxide (H(2)O(2))- and 6-hydroxydopamine-induced cell death. This involved amelioration of elevated caspase 3 activity, down-regulation of pro-apoptotic Bax and up-regulation of anti-apoptotic Bcl-2 protein. In the presence of 6-hydroxydopamine, GLP-1's ability to lower caspase-3 activity was abolished with the phosphoinositide 3-kinase inhibitor, LY2940002, and partly reduced with the protein kinase A inhibitor, H89. Hence, GLP-1R mediated neurotrophic and anti-apoptotic actions co-contribute to the neuroprotective property of GLP-1 in neuronal cell cultures, and reinforce the potential therapeutic value of GLP-1R agonists in neurodegenerative disorders involving oxidative stress.
Mice with a targeted mutation in proSAAS have been generated to investigate whether peptides derived from this precursor could function as an inhibitor of prohormone convertase 1/3 (PC1/3) in vivo as well as to determine any alternate roles for proSAAS in nervous and endocrine tissues. Fetal mice lacking proSAAS exhibit complete, adult-like processing of prodynorphin in the prenatal brain instead of the incomplete processing seen in the brains of wild-type fetal mice where inhibitory proSAAS intermediates are transiently accumulated. This study provides evidence that proSAAS is directly involved in the prenatal regulation of neuropeptide processing in vivo. However, adult mice lacking proSAAS have normal levels of all peptides detected using a peptidomics approach, suggesting that PC1/3 activity is not affected by the absence of proSAAS in adult mice. ProSAAS knockout mice exhibit decreased locomotion and a male-specific 10-15% decrease in body weight, but maintain normal fasting blood glucose levels and are able to efficiently clear glucose from the blood in response to a glucose challenge. This work suggests that proSAAS-derived peptides can inhibit PC1/3 in embryonic brain, but in the adult brain proSAAS peptides may function as neuropeptides that regulate body weight and potentially other behaviors.
Enkephalin (ENK) has been implicated in nociceptive transmission in the spinal cord while its functional role is not clear because of difficulties in ideally visualizing ENKergic neurons. We thus developed preproenkephalin-green fluorescent protein transgenic mice to better identify ENKergic neurons. Real-time reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) together with immunohistochemistry and in situ hybridization were first employed to confirm the successful transgenic manipulation and its application in showing spinal ENKergic neurons. The proportions of ENKergic neurons in the spinal cord laminae I, II, III and IV-VI among dorsal horn neurons were 15.8 +/- 3.1%, 39.5 +/- 3.3%, 11.8 +/- 1.9% and 10.7 +/- 2.1%, respectively. Double labeling with other molecules was then performed to further clarify the neurochemical properties of spinal ENKergic neurons. GABA was found to exist in 42.9 +/- 2.8% of ENKergic neurons that were mainly located in lamina I-III. The proportions of parvalbumin-, calretinin-, calbindin- and neuronal nitric oxide synthase-positive cells among the ENKergic neurons were 5.2 +/- 0.7%, 42.6 +/- 2.3%, 25.8 +/- 2.2% and 11.1 +/- 1.6%, respectively. Compared with previously findings obtained with ENK antibody labeling, this line of newly generated mice can be a reliable tool for the study of specific spinal ENKergic neuronal population.
The finding of a secretion pathway and toxicity for mutant superoxide dismutase 1 (SOD1) raised up the possibility of using immunization approaches to reduce or neutralize the burden of toxic SOD1 species in the nervous system. Here we tested a passive immunization approach based on intracerebroventricular infusion in G93A-SOD1 mice of monoclonal antibodies specific to misfolded forms of SOD1 (mSOD1). We tested two monoclonal antibodies that bind distinct epitopes in mSOD1 and that do not bind to intact wild-type (WT) SOD1. One antibody succeeded in reducing the level of mSOD1 by 23% in the spinal cord and in prolonging the lifespan of G93A-SOD1 mice in proportion to the duration of treatment. However, another monoclonal antibody binding to a different SOD1 epitope failed to confer protection indicating that not all anti-SOD1 antibodies might be suitable for immunotherapy. Interestingly, the variable Fab fragment of an anti-SOD1 antibody was sufficient to confer some protection in G93A-SOD1 mice. The partial dispensability of Fc region should offer some advantages for development of immunotherapy with antibodies of smaller molecular size and low immunogenicity. From these results, we propose that passive immunization strategies should be considered as potential avenues for treatment of familial amyotrophic lateral sclerosis caused by SOD1 mutations.
One of the major barriers to successful axon regeneration in the adult CNS is the presence of inhibitory molecules that originate from the myelin sheath and glial scar. So far, only a small number of pharmacological compounds have exhibited functional activity against CNS inhibitors in promoting axon regeneration after injury. To search for novel compounds that enhance neurite outgrowth in vitro, we initiated a screen of a collection of natural products. We identified four compounds with the potential to promote growth over a myelin substrate. Of these, Amphotericin B (AmB) was shown to enhance neurite outgrowth and antagonize activities of major myelin associated inhibitors and glial-scar-derived chondroitin sulfate proteoglycans. AmB was found to activate Akt and thereby suppress the activity of glycogen synthase kinase 3 beta. Also, a cell permeable peptide that inhibits Akt activity was shown to block the effect of AmB in promoting axonal growth, while another peptide that increases Akt activity stimulated axonal growth in the presence of the myelin associated inhibitors. Our results suggest that AmB can promote neurite outgrowth over a wide range of inhibitory substrates via a mechanism that involves activation of Akt.
The Goodpasture antigen-binding protein (GPBP) and its splice variant the ceramide transporter (CERT) are multifunctional proteins that have been found to play important roles in brain development and biology. However, the function of GPBP and CERT is controversial because of their involvement in two apparently unrelated research fields: GPBP was initially isolated as a protein associated with collagen IV in patients with the autoimmune disease Goodpasture syndrome. Subsequently, a splice variant lacking a serine-rich domain of 26 amino acids (GPBPDelta26) was found to mediate the cytosolic transport of ceramide and was therefore (re)named CERT. The two splice forms likely carry out different functions in specific sub-cellular localizations. Selective GPBP knockdown induces extensive apoptosis and tissue loss in the brain of zebrafish. GPBP/GPBPDelta26 knock-out mice die as a result of structural and functional defects in endoplasmic reticulum and mitochondria. Because both mitochondria and ceramide play an important role in many biological events that regulate neuronal differentiation, cellular senescence, proliferation and cell death, we propose that GPBP and CERT are pivotal in neurodegenerative processes. In this review, we discuss the current state of knowledge on GPBP and CERT, including the molecular and biochemical characterization of GPBP in the field of autoimmunity as well as the fundamental research on CERT in ceramide transport, biosynthesis, localization, metabolism and cell homeostasis.
Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis is a progressively paralytic neurodegenerative disease that can be caused by mutations in Cu,Zn-superoxide dismutase 1 (SOD1). Transgenic mice that over-express mutant SOD1 develop paralysis and accumulate aggregates of mutant protein in the brainstem and spinal cord. The present study uses a cell culture model to demonstrate alpha B-crystallin is capable of reducing aggregation of mutant SOD1. To test the role of alpha B-crystallin in modulating SOD1 aggregation in vivo, alpha B-crystallin deficient mice were bred to mice expressing two different SOD1 mutants (G37R and L126Z). Although completely eliminating alpha B-crystallin reduced the interval to disease endstage by 20-30 days in mice expressing either mutant, there were no detectable changes in the levels of sedimentable, SOD1 aggregates in the spinal cord of symptomatic mice. Because alpha B-crystallin is most abundantly expressed in muscle, we expected that the loss of this chaperone would leave this tissue vulnerable to mutant SOD1 aggregation. However, there was no evidence of mutant SOD1 aggregation in the muscle of mice lacking alpha B-crystallin. Our findings indicate that a significant perturbation to the protein homeostasis network of muscle is not sufficient to induce the aggregation of misfolded mutant SOD1. These outcomes have implications regarding the role of chaperones in modulating the tissue specific accumulations of misfolded SOD1.


Complement plays a pivotal role in the pathogenesis of multiple sclerosis. C4a, an activated fragment of complement component C4, has been linked to disease activity. We correlated plasma C4 and plasma and CSF C4a with clinical disease in a well-characterised cohort of patients and controls. Plasma C4 was non-significantly and CSF C4a was significantly elevated overall in patients compared to controls. Plasma C4a was raised only in acute relapse, decreasing over 2 months. Results demonstrate intrathecal and systemic activation of complement, reflected in changes in CSF and plasma C4a. The data support a role for complement activation in pathogenesis and suggest a systemic component to the disease.
To examine the occurrence of fluctuating cognition (FC) in a group of patients with Parkinson's disease with dementia (PDD), and to determine whether the presence of FC in PDD is associated with a pattern of cognitive and behavioural disturbances similar to the one shown by patients affected by dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB), a cluster analysis was carried out on the scores obtained by 27 PDD patients on the Clinician Assessment of Fluctuation Scale (CAF). The analysis separated the PDD patients into two subgroups, called PDD non-fluctuators (PDDNF; CAF &lt;or= 2) and PDD fluctuators (PDDF; CAF &gt; 2). The two groups underwent a cognitive and behavioural evaluation. Their scores were compared with those obtained by DLB and Alzheimer's disease (AD) patients. When exploring the cognitive performance of the patients with the Dementia Rating Scale-2 (DRS-2), PDDF had a similar pattern of impairments compared to DLB, which involved prevalently the attention and initiation/perseveration domains, and which was significantly more pronounced compared to that shown by PDDNF. The main behavioural finding of the study was the similar incidence of visual hallucinations in the PDDF and DLB groups, which was significantly higher compared to PDDNF and AD. Our results confirmed the hypothesis that subgroups with different cognitive profiles exist within PDD and that the occurrence of FC is the clinical variable associated with a DLB pattern of impairment in PDD. In conclusion, our study suggests that when FC occurs in PDD this syndrome becomes clinically undistinguishable from DLB.



Linear accelerator single-fraction radiosurgery (SRS) for skull base lesions is usually delivered with dynamic conformal arcs (DCAs), but intensity-modulated radiosurgery (IMRS) is another option when SRS dose is limited by proximity of the optic nerve and chiasm. We review the long-term outcome of patients treated with IMRS for parasellar lesions. Fourteen patients with parasellar lesions were treated with IMRS when standard DCA radiosurgery was limited by optic nerve tolerance. Prospective patient data included endocrine function, visual acuity and field testing, nonoptic nerve cranial neuropathy, and overall survival. In addition, tumor control on serial magnetic resonance imaging is reported as progression-free survival (PFS). Six patients with cavernous sinus meningiomas and eight with recurrent pituitary adenomas were treated. Three of the pituitary tumors were hormonally active (two with Cushing disease, one with acromegaly). The median patient age was 50 years (range 24-70 years). Median follow-up was 54 months. Average tumor treatment volume was 4.99 ml (average dose 16 Gy, average of 10 IMRS fields). Tumor control was achieved in 11 of 14 (79%) patients. Median PFS has not been reached in our patient population. Thirteen patients are alive (one died of an unrelated cancer). No patients developed new endocrinological, ophthalmological, or cranial nerve deficits. IMRS allows for treatment of parasellar lesions when standard DCA SRS is limited by optic nerve tolerance. Although our follow-up period was relatively short and the number of patients was small, it appears that this can be accomplished with a high tumor control rate and survival without new endocrinopathies, optic neuropathies, or other complications in patients who have failed other therapies.
A 30-year-old woman developed acute visual loss and optic disc elevation in the left eye after breastfeeding her second son. The initial diagnosis was optic neuritis. However, MRI showed a lesion in left intraorbital and intracanalicular optic nerve and several cerebral lesions with imaging features of cerebral cavernous malformations (CCMs). Genetic testing was positive for abnormalities known to predispose to CCMs in the patient and her father, who also showed MRI evidence of CCMs. During a 44-month follow-up period in which no intervention took place, the patient's vision in the affected eye fluctuated but eventually became extinguished. Serial MRIs did not always show lesion changes that explained the visual deterioration. In familial CCM, pregnancy might be a &quot;second hit&quot; to genetically predisposed tissue.
Histone deacetylases (HDACs) are important regulators of gene expression and cell differentiation. The HDAC inhibitors have recently been considered as potential novel neuroprotective drugs for the treatment of neurodegenerative diseases such as amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS). A major limitation, however, lies in the broad spectrum of action of currently available HDAC inhibitors that may cause a variety of toxic side effects. The mRNA expression levels of the HDAC isoforms HDACs 1 to 11 have previously been characterized in rat brain but have not been studied in human tissue. Using in situ hybridization histochemistry and immunohistochemistry we assessed the distribution and expression levels of HDACs 1to 11 in postmortem ALS and control brain and spinal cord specimens (n = 6 cases each) to determine alterations in the mRNA expression pattern that could provide a basis for disease-specific therapies. We found a reduction of HDAC 11 mRNA and increased HDAC 2 levels in ALS brain and spinal cord compared with controls. A more precise knowledge of the disease-related expression pattern could lead to the development of more specific pharmacotherapeutic approaches.
Feedback control of our limbs must account for the unexpected offset of mechanical perturbations. Here we examine the evoked activity of elbow flexor and extensor muscles to torque pulses lasting 22-152 ms and how torque offset impacts activity in the long-latency (45-100 ms) and voluntary epochs (120-180 ms). For each pulse width, we found a significant attenuation of muscle activity approximately 30 ms after the offset of torque compared with when the torque was sustained. The brief time between the offset of torque and the attenuation of muscle activity implicates group I afferents acting through a spinal pathway, because this route is the only one fast enough and short enough to be responsible. Moreover, elbow muscle activity in the subsequent 20-45 ms following torque-offset was approximately 35% smaller than when the torque was sustained. These results show that a fast spinal process can powerfully attenuate corrective responses of the arm to a torque perturbation.
The circadian pacemaker within the suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN) confers daily rhythms to bodily functions. In nature, the circadian clock will adopt a 24-h period by synchronizing to the solar light/dark cycle. This light entrainment process is mediated, in part, at glutamatergic synapses formed between retinal ganglion afferents and SCN neurons. N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors (NMDARs) located on SCN neurons gate light-induced phase resetting. Despite their importance in circadian physiology, little is known about their functional stoichiometry. We investigated the NR2-subunit composition with whole cell recordings of SCN neurons within the murine hypothalamic brain slice using a combination of subtype-selective NMDAR antagonists and voltage-clamp protocols. We found that extracellular magnesium ([Mg](o)) strongly blocks SCN NMDARs exhibiting affinities and voltage sensitivities associated with NR2A and NR2B subunits. These NMDAR currents were inhibited strongly by NR2B-selective antagonists, Ro 25-6981 (3.5 microM, 55.0 +/- 9.0% block; mean +/- SE) and ifenprodil (10 microM, 55.8 +/- 3.0% block). The current remaining showed decreased [Mg](o) affinities reminiscent of NR2C and NR2D subunits but was highly sensitive to [Zn](o), a potent NR2A blocker, showing a approximately 44.2 +/- 1.1% maximal inhibition at saturating concentrations with an IC(50) of 7.8 +/- 1.1 nM. Considering the selectivity, efficacy, and potency of the drugs used in combination with [Mg](o)-block characteristics of the NMDAR, our data show that both diheteromeric NR2B NMDARs and triheteromeric NR2A NMDARs (paired with an NR2C or NR2D subunits) account for the vast majority of the NMDAR current within the SCN.
Touch is initiated by diverse somatosensory afferents that innervate the skin. The ability to manipulate and classify receptor subtypes is prerequisite for elucidating sensory mechanisms. Merkel cell-neurite complexes, which distinguish shapes and textures, are experimentally tractable mammalian touch receptors that mediate slowly adapting type I (SAI) responses. The assessment of SAI function in mutant mice has been hindered because previous studies did not distinguish SAI responses from slowly adapting type II (SAII) responses, which are thought to arise from different end organs, such as Ruffini endings. Thus we sought methods to discriminate these afferent types. We developed an epidermis-up ex vivo skin-nerve chamber to record action potentials from afferents while imaging Merkel cells in intact receptive fields. Using model-based cluster analysis, we found that two types of slowly adapting receptors were readily distinguished based on the regularity of touch-evoked firing patterns. We identified these clusters as SAI (coefficient of variation = 0.78 +/- 0.09) and SAII responses (0.21 +/- 0.09). The identity of SAI afferents was confirmed by recording from transgenic mice with green fluorescent protein-expressing Merkel cells. SAI receptive fields always contained fluorescent Merkel cells (n = 10), whereas SAII receptive fields lacked these cells (n = 5). Consistent with reports from other vertebrates, mouse SAI and SAII responses arise from afferents exhibiting similar conduction velocities, receptive field sizes, mechanical thresholds, and firing rates. These results demonstrate that mice, like other vertebrates, have two classes of slowly adapting light-touch receptors, identify a simple method to distinguish these populations, and extend the utility of skin-nerve recordings for genetic dissection of touch receptor mechanisms.
The saccadic system is a prime example of motor control without continuous visual feedback. These systems suffer from a strong vulnerability against disturbances. The mechanism of saccadic adaptation allows adjustment of saccades to alterations arising not only from anatomical changes but also from external changes. The weighting of errors according to their reliability provides a strong benefit for an optimized control system. Thus the consistency of visual error should influence the characteristics of adaptation. In the typical adaptation paradigm a visual error is introduced by stepping the target during the saccade by a given amount. In this paradigm, the retinal error varies with the accuracy of the saccade and the step size. To study the influence of error consistency we use a variant of the adaptation paradigm which allows to specify a constant error size. Intrasaccadic target step sizes were calculated with respect to the predicted landing position of each individual saccade. The consistency of the visual error was varied by introducing different levels of noise to the intrasaccadic target step. Different mean intrasaccadic target step sizes were examined: positive target step, negative target step, and a condition in which the mean of the error distribution was clamped to the fovea. In all three conditions saccadic adaptation was strongest when the error was consistent and became weaker as the error became more variable. These results show that saccadic adaptation takes not only the average error but also the consistency of the error into account.
The human neocerebellum has been hypothesized to contribute to many high-level cognitive processes including attention, language, and working memory. Support for these nonmotor hypotheses comes from evidence demonstrating structural and functional connectivity between the lateral cerebellum and cortical association areas as well as a lack of somatotopy in lobules VI and VII, a hallmark of motor representations in other areas of the cerebellum and cerebral cortex. We set out to test whether somatotopy exists in these lobules by using functional magnetic resonance imaging to measure cerebellar activity while participants produced simple or complex movements, using either fingers or toes. We observed a previously undiscovered somatotopic organization in neocerebellar lobules VI and VIIA that was most prominent when participants executed complex movements. In contrast, activation in the anterior lobe showed a similar somatotopic organization for both simple and complex movements. While the anterior somatotopic representation responded selectively during ipsilateral movements, the new cerebellar map responded during both ipsi- and contralateral movements. The presence of a bilateral, task-dependent somatotopic map in the neocerebellum emphasizes an important role for this region in the control of skilled actions.
Adult neurogenesis has captivated neuroscientists for decades, with hopes that understanding the programs underlying this phenomenon may provide unique insight toward avenues for brain repair. Interestingly, however, despite intense molecular and cellular investigation, the evolutionary roles and biological functions for ongoing neurogenesis have remained elusive. Here I review recent work published in the Journal of Neuroscience that reveals a functional role for continued neurogenesis toward forming short-term olfactory memories.
Dopamine (DA) neurons and GABA neurons of the substantia nigra (SN) promote distinct functions in the control of movement and have different firing properties and action potential (AP) waveforms. APs recorded from DA and GABA neurons differed in amplitude, maximal rate of rise, and duration. In addition, the threshold potential for APs was higher in DA neurons than in GABA neurons. The activation of voltage-gated Na(+) channels accounts largely for these differences as the application of a low concentration of the voltage-gated Na(+) channel blocker TTX had an effect on all of these parameters. We have examined functional properties of somatic Na(+) channels in nucleated patches isolated from DA and GABA neurons. Peak amplitudes of macroscopic Na(+) currents were smaller in DA neurons in comparison to those in GABA neurons. The mean peak Na(+) conductance density was 24.5 pS microm(-2) in DA neurons and almost twice as large, 41.6 pS microm(-2), in GABA neurons. The voltage dependence of Na(+) channel activation was not different between the two types of SN neurons. Na(+) channels in DA and GABA neurons, however, differed in the voltage dependence of inactivation, the mean mid-point potential of steady-state inactivation curve being more positive in DA neurons than in GABA neurons. The results suggest that specific Na(+) channel gating properties and Na(+) conductance densities in the somatic membrane of SN neurons may have consequences on synaptic signal integration in the soma of both types of neurons and on somatodendritic release of dopamine by DA neurons.
Discrimination between edible and noxious food, crucial for animal survival, is based on separate gustatory receptors for phagostimulants and deterrents. In the moth Heliothis virescens, gustatory receptor neurons (GRNs) tuned to phagostimulants like sucrose and deterrents like quinine, respectively, have indicated a labeled line mechanism for mediating appetitive and aversive information to the CNS. In the present study, we have investigated the central gustatory neurons (CGNs) in this moth as an approach to understand how gustatory information is coded in the CNS. Intracellular recordings from CGNs in the suboesophageal ganglion (SOG) combined with fluorescent staining revealed a large diversity of CGN types responding to sucrose, quinine, water, and mechanosensory stimuli applied to the antennae, the proboscis, and the right tarsus. The CGNs responded with varying tuning breadth to tastants applied to more than one appendage. This integration of information across stimuli and appendages, contradict a simple labeled line mechanism in the CNS for coding identity and location of taste stimuli. Instead the distinct pattern of activity found in an ensemble of CGNs, suggests a population coding mechanism. Staining revealed that the majority of the CGNs were confined locally within the SOG/tritocerebrum, whereas others projected to the deutocerebrum, protocerebrum, frontal ganglion, and thoracic ganglia. Some CGNs were reconstructed and registered into the H. virescens standard brain atlas, showing dendritic overlap with the previously described GRN projections. In general, the physiology and morphology of the CGNs suggested multifunctional properties, where a single CGN might belong to several networks executing different functions.
Caring for an individual with a halo vest can be a frustrating and anxiety-provoking experience for healthcare professionals, the patient, and their families. Physicians or trained nurses apply halo vests in various situations in which cervical spine stabilization is required for an extended period. This device can be used as a first-line treatment in the management of nonoperative cervical trauma, that is, fractures, or placed following cervical surgery. Standardizing the application techniques and care associated with the halo vest, pin site care, and day-to-day activities of daily living will increase the comfort and self-confidence of healthcare professionals and the patient and family members in the provision of care. A collaborative approach among three greater Toronto area teaching hospitals aided in the development of standardizing care and patient educational materials for patients with halo vests.
Stroke is the third leading cause of death in the United States and is the leading cause of long-term disability in the United States. Disparities in risk factor prevalence, stroke incidence, and mortality exist across races and gender. Although healthcare providers may know the risk factors of stroke, prevention of strokes and control of the major risk factors remain poor. In addition, the general population lacks knowledge of the warning signs of strokes and the factors that put them at risk for having a stroke. Stroke prevention programs have been found to be successful in increasing awareness of the disease, but more prevention through reduction of modifiable risks is needed to lower the incidence of strokes.
Two types of interventions to remyelinate the adult demyelinated central nervous system were investigated in heterozygous transgenic mice overexpressing the proteolipid protein gene. 1) A cocktail of trophic factors, &quot;TS1,&quot; was directed toward the activation of the endogenous pool of neural progenitors to increase the number of myelinating oligodendrocytes (OL) in the brain. 2) A combinatorial approach in which OL progenitors were coinjected with TS1 into the corpus callosum of wild-type and He4e transgenic mice that displayed hindlimb paralysis. The levels of locomotor ability in these mice were evaluated after a single treatment. The data showed that a single administration of either one of the interventions had similar therapeutic effects, alleviating the symptoms of demyelination and leading to the recovery of hindlimb function. Histological and immunofluorescent examination of brain sections showed extensive remyelination that was sufficient to reverse hindlimb paralysis in transgenic mice. When the interventions were administered prior to hindlimb paralysis, He4e mice were able to walk up to 1 year of age without paralysis.
Traumatic injury to the brain is one of the leading causes of injury-related death or disability, but current therapies are limited. Previously it has been shown that the antioxidant proteins metallothioneins (MTs) are potent neuroprotective factors in animal models of brain injury. The exogenous administration of MTs causes effects consistent with the roles proposed from studies in knock-out mice. We herewith report the results comparing full mouse MT-1 with the independent alpha and beta domains, alone or together, in a cryoinjury model. The lesion of the cortex caused the mice to perform worse in the horizontal ladder beam and the rota-rod tests; all the proteins showed a modest effect in the former test, while only full MT-1 improved the performance of animals in the rota-rod, and the alpha domain showed a rather detrimental effect. Gene expression analysis by RNA protection assay demonstrated that all proteins may alter the expression of host-response genes such as GFAP, Mac1 and ICAM, in some cases being the beta domain more effective than the alpha domain or even the full MT-1. A MT-1-to-MT-3 mutation blunted some but not all the effects caused by the normal MT-1, and in some cases increased its potency. Thus, splitting the two MT-1 domains do not seem to eliminate all MT functions but certainly modifies them, and different motifs seem to be present in the protein underlying such functions.
Activated microglia can influence the survival of neural cells through the release of cytotoxic factors. Here, we investigated the interaction between Toll-like receptor 4 (TLR4)-activated microglia and oligodendrocytes or their precursor cells (OPC). Primary rat or N9 microglial cells were activated by exposure to TLR4-specifc lipopolysaccharide (LPS), resulting in mitogen-activated protein kinase activation, increased CD68 and inducible nitric oxide synthase expression, and release of the proinflammatory cytokines tumor necrosis factor (TNF) and interleukin-6 (IL-6). Microglial conditioned medium (MGCM) from LPS-activated microglia attenuated primary OPC proliferation without inducing cell death. The microglial-induced inhibition of OPC proliferation was reversed by stimulating group III metabotropic glutamate receptors in microglia with the agonist L-AP4. In contrast to OPC, LPS-activated MGCM enhanced the survival of mature oligodendrocytes. Further investigation suggested that TNF and IL-6 released from TLR4-activated microglia might contribute to the effect of MGCM on OPC proliferation, insofar as TNF depletion of LPS-activated MGCM reduced the inhibition of OPC proliferation, and direct addition of TNF or IL-6 attenuated or increased proliferation, respectively. OPC themselves were also found to express proteins involved in TLR4 signalling, including TLR4, MyD88, and MAL. Although LPS stimulation of OPC did not induce proinflammatory cytokine release or affect their survival, it did trigger JNK phosphorylation, suggesting that TLR4 signalling in these cells is active. These findings suggest that OPC survival may be influenced not only by factors released from endotoxin-activated microglia but also through a direct response to endotoxins. This may have consequences for myelination under conditions in which microglial activation and cerebral infection are both implicated. , Inc.
Spinal cord injury (SCI) causes loss of neurological function and, depending on serverity, may cause paralysis. The only recommended pharmacotherapy for the treatment of SCI is high-dose methylprednisolone, and its use is controversial. We have previously shown that estrogen treatment attenuated cell death, axonal and myelin damage, calpain and caspase activities, and inflammation in acute SCI. The aim of this study was to examine whether posttreatment of SCI with estrogen would improve locomotor function by protecting cells and axons and reducing inflammation during the chronic phase following injury. Moderately severe injury (40 g . cm force) was induced in male Sprague-Dawley rats following laminectomy at T10. Three groups of animals were used: sham (laminectomy only), vehicle (dimethyl sulfoxide; DMSO)-treated injury group, and estrogen-treated injury group. Animals were treated with 4 mg/kg estrogen at 15 min and 24 hr postnjury, followed by 2 mg/kg estrogen daily for the next 5 days. After treatment, animals were sacrificed at the end of 6 weeks following injury, and 1-cm segments of spinal cord (lesion, rostral to lesion, and caudal to lesion) were removed for biochemical analyses. Estrogen treatment reduced COX-2 activity, blocked nuclear factor-kappaB translocation, prevented glial reactivity, attenuated neuron death, inhibited activation and activity of calpain and caspase-3, decreased axonal damage, reduced myelin loss in the lesion and penumbra, and improved locomotor function compared with vehicle-treated animals. These findings suggest that estrogen may be useful as a promising therapeutic agent for prevention of damage and improvement of locomotor function in chronic SCI. (c) 2010 Wiley-Liss, Inc.
Myoclonic dystonia is poorly managed with medication and may be severe enough to warrant surgical intervention. Surgery has targeted either the globus pallidus pars interna (GPi) or the thalamus, but there is no accepted target for this condition. The authors present the case of a 23-year-old man treated with unilateral deep brain stimulation in both the thalamus and GPi. His movement disorder improved dramatically with stimulation. Two years postoperatively, the authors performed a double-blind assessment of the effects of each stimulator together, separately, and off stimulation. Videotape assessment, using tremor, dystonia, and myoclonus rating scales, showed that most of the benefit could be attributed to pallidal stimulation, although there was some advantage to stimulation at both sites. These results suggest that while GPi stimulation may be the better target for this condition, thalamic stimulation may be added in cases in which the benefit is insufficient.

The discipline of neurological surgery was considered primarily &quot;hopeless&quot; and, at best, experimental in the late 19th century. Harvey Cushing's efforts during his initial uncharted voyage through the surgery of the human cranium were rudimentary and exploratory. A direct review of his available patient records from early in his career provides the opportunity to look back at Cushing as a physician-scientist, uncovering work that demonstrates that he was at the forefront of neurosurgical intervention in avenues that have been largely overlooked. The authors present Cushing's notes pertaining to a case of tetanus. This case represents the intersection of neurosurgery and tetanus treatment in Dr. Cushing's intracerebral injection of antitoxin to treat generalized tetanus.
One hundred years after his death, Jean Baptiste Paulin Trolard's name endures in the medical literature primarily because of his work on the anastomotic veins of the cerebral circulation. Specifically, and known to all neurosurgeons, the great anastomotic vein, or the vein of Trolard, underscores a portion of Trolard's contribution to neuroanatomy. The country of Algeria has also remembered this influential colonist because of his life's work as a physician, professor, humanitarian, environmentalist, and French nationalist. Trolard fought deforestation, injustice, epidemics, and bureaucracy in northern Africa and tragically died in the midst of these struggles. In this historical vignette, the authors review the life and contributions of this pioneer of early neuroanatomy.
Spinal cord injury (SCI) is generally associated with a rapid and significant decrease in muscle mass and corresponding changes in skeletal muscle properties. Although beta(2)-adrenergic and androgen receptor agonists are anabolic substances clearly shown to prevent or reverse muscle wasting in some pathological conditions, their effects in SCI patients remain largely unknown. Here we studied the effects of clenbuterol and testosterone propionate administered separately or in combination on skeletal muscle properties and adipose tissue in adult CD1 mice spinal-cord-transected (Tx) at the low-thoracic level (i.e., induced complete paraplegia). Administered shortly post-Tx, these substances were found to differentially reduce loss in body weight, muscle mass, and muscle fiber cross-sectional area (CSA) values. Although all three treatments induced significant effects, testosterone-treated animals were generally less protected against Tx-related changes. However, none of the treatments prevented fat tissue loss or muscle fiber type conversion and functional loss generally found in Tx animals. These results provide evidence suggesting that clenbuterol alone or combined with testosterone may constitute better clinically-relevant treatments than testosterone alone to decrease muscle atrophy (mass and fiber CSA) in SCI subjects.
Chronic nerve compression (CNC) injuries, such as carpal tunnel syndrome, are common musculoskeletal conditions that affect patients with debilitating loss of sensory function and pain. Although early detection and treatment are important, our understanding of pain-related molecular mechanisms remains largely unclear. Here we investigate these mechanisms using an animal model for CNC injury. To confirm that CNC injury induces pain, we assessed expression of c-fos, a gene that is rapidly expressed in spinal sensory afferents in response to painful peripheral stimuli, and TNF-alpha and IL-6, two proinflammatory cytokines that are crucial to development of inflammatory-mediated pain. Results show c-fos upregulation 1-2 weeks postinjury in the absence of TNF-alpha or IL-6 expression, indicating increased neural sensitivity without an inflammatory response. This is consistent with previous studies that showed no morphologic evidence of inflammation in the CNC model. Surprisingly, we also found de novo expression of Na(V)1.8, a sodium channel linked to the development of neuropathic pain, in endoneurial Schwann cells following injury. Until now, Na(V)1.8 expression was thought to be restricted to sensory neurons. CNC injury appears to be a unique model of noninflammatory neuropathic pain. Further investigation of the underlying molecular basis could yield promising targets for early diagnosis and treatment.

The caudal nerve is often used for investigating alterations in nerve conduction velocity (NCV) to determine the presence of peripheral neuropathy in animal models. In the present study, the rat caudal nerve of two outbred strains (Wistar Hannover and Sprague-Dawley) and one inbred strain (Fischer-344) was analyzed with regard to morphologic, morphometric, and physiologic features. In all three strains, we calculated the myelinated fiber diameter, myelinated axon diameter, and g-ratio in the proximal caudal nerve and correlated these results with NCV in the distal caudal nerve. Although the caudal nerves were morphologically similar in the three rat strains, a significant difference was present morphometrically: there was a statistically significant increase in the g-ratio associated with a reduction in myelinated fiber diameter in Fischer-344 rats vs. Wistar Hannover and Sprague-Dawley animals (p &lt; 0.01). However, there was no significant difference in NCV results in the distal caudal nerve. The present study adds morphologic and morphometric information on the rat caudal nerve that might be useful for a better interpretation of studies involving this nerve and its pathological changes in experimental models of peripheral neuropathies.
Patients with multifocal motor neuropathy (MMN) have slowly progressive, predominantly distal asymmetric limb weakness without sensory loss. While previous studies have investigated the impact of MMN on body functions and structures, relatively little is known about the impact of patients' weakness on daily functioning. The aim of the present cross-sectional study, involving 47 patients with MMN, was to evaluate determinants of patients' functioning. Most patients showed not only muscle weakness but also fatigue, limited dexterity, and limited walking ability. Regression models showed that age, hand aids, and muscle strength scores together explained 54% of the variance in dexterity scores, which in turn explained 8% of the variance in patients' scores for autonomy indoors. Age, the use of walking aids, and muscle strength scores together explained 58% of the variance in walking ability scores, which in turn explained 18% of the variance in patients' scores for autonomy indoors and 7% of the variance in patients' scores for autonomy outdoors. Assessment of determinants of patient functioning may make it possible to tailor interventions to address these aspects and thereby improve patients' functioning in daily life.
This study investigated the relationship between five forms of childhood maltreatment (sexual, physical and emotional abuse, emotional and physical neglect) and 10 personality disorders (PDs). PDs were assessed by means of SCID II, and childhood maltreatment was retrospectively measured with the Interview for Traumatic Events in Childhood. Both PDs and childhood maltreatment were expressed continuously, and relations were assessed by means of structural equation modelling in a sample of 409 participants. Results indicated that sexual abuse was associated with symptoms of paranoid, schizoid, borderline, and avoidant PD; physical abuse with antisocial PD; emotional abuse with paranoid, schizotypal, borderline, and cluster C PD; and emotional neglect with histrionic and borderline PD. No independent relationships between physical neglect and PDs were found. The findings provide clear, albeit retrospective, evidence that different forms of childhood maltreatment have differential effects on PD pathology.
The results of 6 experiments indicate that emotional intensity reduces perceived psychological distance. People who described events emotionally rather than neutrally perceived those events as less psychologically distant, including embarrassing autobiographical events (Experiment 1), past and future dentist visits (Experiment 2), positive and negative events (Experiment 3), and a national tragedy (Experiment 6). People also perceived an event (dancing in front of an audience) as less psychologically distant when they were in a more emotionally arousing social role (of performer) than in a less emotionally arousing social role (of observer; Experiment 4). Two findings bolster the causal role of emotional intensity in reducing perceived psychological distance. First, reported emotional intensity was negatively correlated with perceived psychological distance and statistically mediated the effect of being in an emotionally arousing social role on perceived psychological distance (Experiment 4). Second, providing people with an alternative interpretation of their emotions (emotionally ambiguous whale songs) significantly reduced, even reversed, the negative correlation between self-reported emotional intensity and perceived psychological distance (Experiment 5). These findings about emotional intensity are consistent with the broader idea that perceived psychological distance is grounded in and influenced by the phenomenology of objective distance. Implications for theories of psychological distance, emotionality, and choice are discussed.
Conserved serines of transmembrane segment (TM) five (TM5) are critical for the interactions of endogenous catecholamines with alpha(1)- and alpha(2)-adrenergic, beta(2)-adrenergic, and D1, D2, and D3 dopamine receptors. The unique high-affinity interaction of the D4 dopamine receptor subtype with both norepinephrine and dopamine, and the fact that TM5 serine interactions have never been studied for this receptor subtype, led us to investigate the interactions of ligands with D4 receptor TM5 serines. Serine-to-alanine mutations at positions 5.42 and 5.46 drastically decreased affinities of dopamine and norepinephrine for the D4 receptor. The D4-S5.43A receptor mutant had substantially reduced affinity for norepinephrine, but a modest loss of affinity for dopamine. In functional assays of cAMP accumulation, norephinephrine was unable to activate any of the mutant receptors, even though the agonist quinpirole displayed wild-type functional properties for all of them. Dopamine was unable to activate the S5.46A mutant and had reduced potency for the S5.43A mutant and reduced potency and efficacy for the S5.42A mutant. In contrast, Ro10-4548 [RAC-2'-2-hydroxy-3-4-(4-hydroxy-2-methoxyphenyl)-1-piperazinyl-propoxy-acetanilide], a catechol-like antagonist of the wild-type receptor unexpectedly functions as an agonist of the S5.43A mutant. Other noncatechol ligands had similar properties for mutant and wild-type receptors. This is the first example of a dopamine receptor point mutation selectively changing the receptor's interaction with a specific antagonist to that of an agonist, and together with other data, provides evidence, supported by molecular modeling, that catecholamine-type agonism is induced by different ligand-specific configurations of intermolecular H-bonds with the TM5 conserved serines.
The axon initial segment (AIS) contains the site of action potential initiation and plays a major role in neuronal excitability. AIS function relies on high concentrations of different ion channels and complex regulatory mechanisms that orchestrate molecular microarchitecture. We review recent evidence that a large number of ion channels associated with epilepsy are enriched at the AIS, making it a 'hotspot' for epileptogenesis. Furthermore, we present novel data on the clustering of GABRgamma2 receptors in the AIS of cortical and hippocampal neurons in a knock in mouse model of a human genetic epilepsy. This article highlights the molecular coincidence of epilepsy mutations at the AIS and reviews pathogenic mechanisms converging at the AIS.
Mutations in CACNA1A, which encodes the principal subunit of the P/Q calcium channel, underlie episodic ataxia type 2 (EA2). In addition, some patients with episodic ataxia complicated by epilepsy have been shown to harbour CACNA1A mutations, raising the possibility that P/Q channel dysfunction may be linked to human epilepsy. We undertook a review of all published CACNA1A EA2 cases and this showed that 7% have epilepsy--representing a sevenfold increased epilepsy risk compared to the background population risk (P&lt;0.001). We also studied a series of 17 individuals with episodic ataxia accompanied by epilepsy and/or clearly epileptiform electroencephalograms (EEGs). We screened the entire coding region of CACNA1A for point mutations and rearrangements to determine if genetic variation in the gene is associated with the epilepsy phenotype, and measured the functional impact of all missense variations on heterologously expressed P/Q channels. We identified two large scale deletions and two new missense mutations in CACNA1A. When expressed, L621R had little detectable effect on P/Q channel function, while the other missense change, G540R, caused an approximately 30% reduction in current density. In nine patients we also identified the previously reported non-synonymous coding variants (E921D and E993V) which also resulted in impairment of P/Q channel function. Taken together, 12 of the 17 patients have genetic changes which decrease P/Q channel function. We conclude that variants in the coding region of CACNA1A that confer a loss of P/Q-type channel function are associated with episodic ataxia and epilepsy. Our data suggest that functional stratification of all variants, including common polymorphisms, rare variants and novel mutations, may provide new insights into the mechanisms of channelopathies.
Mutations of voltage-gated ion channels cause several channelopathies of skeletal muscle, which present clinically with myotonia, periodic paralysis, or a combination of both. Expression studies have revealed both loss-of-function and gain-of-function defects for the currents passed by mutant channels. In many cases, these functional changes could be mechanistically linked to the defects of fibre excitability underlying myotonia or periodic paralysis. One remaining enigma was the basis for depolarization-induced weakness in hypokalaemic periodic paralysis (HypoPP) arising from mutations in either sodium or calcium channels. Curiously, 14 of 15 HypoPP mutations are at arginines in S4 voltage sensors, and recent observations show that these substitutions support an alternative pathway for ion conduction, the gating pore, that may be the source of the aberrant depolarization during an attack of paralysis.
Ion channel missense mutations cause disorders of excitability by changing channel biophysical properties. As an increasing number of new naturally occurring mutations have been identified, and the number of other mutations produced by molecular approaches such as in situ mutagenesis has increased, the need for functional analysis by patch-clamp has become rate limiting. Here we compare a patch-clamp robot using planar-chip technology with human patch-clamp in a functional assessment of a previously undescribed Nav1.7 sodium channel mutation, S211P, which causes erythromelalgia. This robotic patch-clamp device can increase throughput (the number of cells analysed per day) by 3- to 10-fold. Both modes of analysis show that the mutation hyperpolarizes activation voltage dependence (8 mV by manual profiling, 11 mV by robotic profiling), alters steady-state fast inactivation so that it requires an additional Boltzmann function for a second fraction of total current (approximately 20% manual, approximately 40% robotic), and enhances slow inactivation (hyperpolarizing shift--15 mV by human,--13 mV robotic). Manual patch-clamping demonstrated slower deactivation and enhanced (approximately 2-fold) ramp response for the mutant channel while robotic recording did not, possibly due to increased temperature and reduced signal-to-noise ratio on the robotic platform. If robotic profiling is used to screen ion channel mutations, we recommend that each measurement or protocol be validated by initial comparison to manual recording. With this caveat, we suggest that, if results are interpreted cautiously, robotic patch-clamp can be used with supervision and subsequent confirmation from human physiologists to facilitate the initial profiling of a variety of electrophysiological parameters of ion channel mutations.

Frontal lobe dysfunctions have been implicated as one of the pathophysiological bases in eating disorder (ED). Neural substrates of ED have been examined in neuroimaging studies employing symptom-related stimuli, such as food and body-image distortion, but with inconsistent results because of differences in study design, task, and stimulus used. In order to elucidate frontal lobe dysfunction correlates of clinical symptoms in ED, we examined the frontal lobe function during a cognitive task, not a symptom-related task, using near-infrared spectroscopy (NIRS), which is suitable for the functional neuroimaging study of ED because of its complete noninvasiveness and natural measurement setting. Regional hemodynamic changes were monitored during a verbal fluency task (letter version) using a 52-channel NIRS apparatus in 27 female ED patients and 27 matched healthy controls, and their correlations with clinical symptoms assessed using the Eating Attitude Scale (EAT-26) were examined. Regional hemodynamic changes were significantly smaller in the ED group than in the control group in the bilateral orbitofrontal and right frontotemporal regions, and negatively correlated with dieting tendency scores in EAT-26 in the right frontotemporal regions and with the eating restriction and binge eating scores in the left orbitofrontal regions. The clinical symptoms of ED are considered to consist of two components: dieting tendency that correlates with the right frontotemporal cortex and eating behavior problems that correlate with left the orbitofrontal cortex.
There is a body of evidence suggesting that BDNF is involved in bipolar disorder (BD) pathogenesis. Intracerebroventricular (ICV) injection of ouabain (OUA), a specific Na(+)/K(+) ATPase inhibitor, induces hyperlocomotion in rats, and has been used as an animal model of mania. The present study aims to investigate the effects of the lithium (Li) and valproate (VPT) in an animal model of mania induced by ouabain. In the reversal model, animals received a single ICV injection of OUA or cerebrospinal fluid (aCSF). From the day following the ICV injection, the rats were treated for 6 days with intraperitoneal (IP) injections of saline (SAL), Li or VPT twice a day. In the maintenance treatment (prevention model), the rats received IP injections of Li, VPT, or SAL twice a day for 12 days. In the 7th day of treatment the animals received a single ICV injection of either OUA or aCSF. After the ICV injection, the treatment with the mood stabilizers continued for more 6 days. Locomotor activity was measured using the open-field test and BDNF levels were measured in rat hippocampus and amygdala by sandwich-ELISA. Li and VPT reversed OUA-related hyperactive behavior in the open-field test in both experiments. OUA decreased BDNF levels in first and second experiments in hippocampus and amygdala and Li treatment, but not VPT reversed and prevented the impairment in BDNF expression after OUA administration in these cerebral areas. Our results suggest that the present model fulfills adequate face, construct and predictive validity as an animal model of mania.
A person who has suffered the total loss of a sensory system has, indirectly, suffered a brain lesion. Semantic and phonologic verbal fluency are used for evaluation of executive function and language. The aim of this study is evaluation and comparison of phonemic and semantic verbal fluency in acquired blinds. We compare 137 blinds and 124 sighted people in verbal fluency task. The tasks were phonemic and semantic verbal fluency test that subjects should be generate as many word as possible in a limited amount of time for a given letter (Phonemic fluency) or a given category (Semantic fluency). Independent T Test was used to comparing blind with sighted. Findings show significant difference between two groups so that that sighted subjects have higher performance in semantic verbal fluency task (p = 0.000). Comparing sighted and blind subjects in phonemic verbal fluency task shows performance in sighted subjects (p = 0.000). Based on this study blinds have lower performance in semantic and phonemic verbal fluency task as a executive function of frontal lobe.
Phospholipase C (PLC) is one signalling effector enzyme whose activity is directly modulated by opioids. Several physiological studies have implicated PLC-linked pathways in in-vivo pain regulation and opioid tolerance. Co-administration of PLC-beta(2/3) activity blocker M119 with morphine resulted in a dramatic increase in morphine-induced amnesic effect in mice, proving a role for beta subunit of PLC enzyme in these processes. Administration of morphine to mice at amnesic dose increased PLC-beta(3) activity, with respect to basal value, in the membrane-soluble material from anterior cortex and hippocampal formation in brain areas. PLC-beta(3) appears to be simultaneously implicated in both analgesic and amnesic effects induced by administration of morphine to mice suggesting a commonality in the molecular mechanisms of morphine-induced analgesia and memory impairment.
This study questions whether the classical interpretation for unconditional fear/anxiety tests is valid when animals are under the influence of some drugs of abuse. We used a modified version of the trimethylthiazoline (TMT)-avoidance task, a measure of unconditional fear. Halfway into a corridor maze we placed a 3-cm-high barrier. This provided a wall in the middle of the corridor, one that the mice can easily climb over. Saline- and morphine-treated mice were randomly placed in the 'safe' or 'unsafe' (TMT) side and observed for 10 min. As expected, saline-injected mice spent only about 25% of the time in the TMT side, regardless of the side they were initially placed into. In contrast, morphine-treated mice did not cross the barrier even once, regardless of their initial placement. Specifically, morphine-treated mice initially placed in the TMT side appeared to exhibit the expected reduction in unconditional fear, that is, spending the entire time in the TMT side, a significant increase over the controls. Yet, morphine-treated mice placed in the safe side never even entered the TMT side; thus, these mice appeared to exhibit a behavioural response that is classically interpreted as increased fear, that is, spending significantly less time in the TMT side versus the controls. In summary, this study demonstrates that the classical interpretation of some unconditioned fear or anxiety tests could be misleading when animals are under the influence of drugs that might induce other competing behaviours.



Sleep is important for brain function and cognitive performance. Sleep deprivation (SD) may affect subsequent learning capacity and ability to form new memories, particularly in the case of hippocampus-dependent tasks. In the present study we examined whether SD for 6 or 12 h during the normal resting phase prior to learning affects hippocampus-dependent working memory in mice. In addition, we determined effects of SD on hippocampal glutamate alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionic acid (AMPA) receptors and their regulatory pathways, which are crucially involved in working memory. After 12 h SD, but not yet after 6 h, spatial working memory in a novel arm recognition task was significantly impaired. This deficit was not likely due to stress as corticosterone levels after SD were not significantly different between groups. In parallel with the change in cognitive function, we found that 12 h SD significantly reduced hippocampal AMPA receptor phosphorylation at the GluR1-S845 site, which is important for incorporation of the receptors into the membrane. SD did not affect protein levels of cyclic-AMP-dependent protein kinase A (PKA) or phosphatase calcineurin (CaN), which regulate GluR1 phosphorylation. However, SD did reduce the expression of the scaffolding molecule A-kinase anchoring protein 150 (AKAP150), which binds and partly controls the actions of PKA and CaN. In conclusion, a relatively short SD during the normal resting phase may affect spatial working memory in mice by reducing hippocampal AMPA receptor function through a change in AKAP150 levels. Together, these findings provide further insight into the possible mechanism of SD-induced hippocampal dysfunction and memory impairment.

Findings on posttraumatic growth (PTG) and distress have not been consistent. This study examines the relationship in a very long-term perspective. The Posttraumatic Growth Inventory was completed by 46 survivors from a single disaster 27 years posttrauma. Posttraumatic stress was measured by the Impact of Event Scale (IES) immediately after the event, and after 1, 5, and 27 years. In the final follow-up, general mental health was also assessed. Strong positive associations were found between PTG and concurrent posttraumatic stress. Although weaker associations were found for the past, concurrent problems in general mental health clearly coexisted with PTG decades after a disaster, yet mediated by IES.
The eradication of HIV-1 will likely require novel clinical approaches to purge the reservoir of latently infected cells from a patient. We hypothesize that this therapy should target a wide range of latent integration sites, act effectively against viral variants that have acquired mutations in their promoter regions, and function across multiple HIV-1 subtypes. By using primary CD4(+) and Jurkat cell-based in vitro HIV-1 latency models, we observe that single-agent latency reactivation therapy is ineffective against most HIV-1 subtypes. However, we demonstrate that the combination of two clinically promising drugs-namely, prostratin and suberoylanilide hydroxamic acid (SAHA)-overcomes the limitations of single-agent approaches and can act synergistically for many HIV-1 subtypes, including A, B, C, D, and F. Finally, by identifying the proviral integration position of latent Jurkat cell clones, we demonstrate that this drug combination does not significantly enhance the expression of endogenous genes nearest to the proviral integration site, indicating that its effects may be selective.
Psychophysical visual field asymmetries are widely documented and have been attributed to anatomical anisotropies both at the retinal and cortical levels. This debate on whether such differences originate within the retina itself or are due to higher visual processing may be illuminated if concomitant anatomical, physiological, and psychophysical measures are taken in the same individuals. In the current study, we have focused on the study of objective functional and structural asymmetries at the retinal level and examined their putative correlation with visual performance asymmetries. Forty healthy participants (80 eyes; 13 male and 27 female subjects) were included in this study. Objective functional/structural asymmetries were probed using the multifocal electroretinogram (mfERG) technique and optical coherence tomography (OCT), respectively. A nasal/temporal pattern of asymmetry (nasal visual hemifield disadvantage) was found for all methods (retinal thickness, contrast sensitivity, and mfERG P1 amplitude). Furthermore, superior/inferior asymmetries could be documented only with psychophysics and structural measures. These patterns likely arise at different levels of the retina as inferred by partly independent correlation patterns. We conclude that patterns of structural/functional asymmetries arise at different levels of visual processing with a strong retinal contribution.
We investigated the roles of egocentric, gravitational, and visual environmental reference frames for face and biological motion perception. We tested observers on face and biological motion tasks while orienting the visual environment and the observer independently with respect to gravity using the York Tumbling Room. The relative contribution of each reference frame was assessed by arranging pairs of frames to be either aligned or opposed to each other while rendering the third uninformative by orienting it sideways relative to the stimulus. The perception of both biological motion and faces were optimal when the stimulus was aligned with egocentric coordinates. However, when the egocentric reference frame was rendered uninformative, the perception of biological motion, but not faces, relied more on stimulus alignment with gravity rather than the visual environment.
Despite the vast amount of behavioral data showing a pronounced tendency in individuals with autism spectrum disorder (ASD) to process fine visual details, much less is known about the neurophysiological characteristics of spatial vision in ASD. Here, we address this issue by assessing the contrast sensitivity response properties of the early visual-evoked potentials (VEPs) to sine-wave gratings of low, medium and high spatial frequencies in adults with ASD and in an age- and IQ-matched control group. Our results show that while VEP contrast responses to low and high spatial frequency gratings did not differ between ASD and controls, early VEPs to mid spatial frequency gratings exhibited similar response characteristics as those to high spatial frequency gratings in ASD. Our findings show evidence for an altered functional segregation of early visual channels, especially those responsible for processing mid- and high-frequency spatial scales.
Three experiments are reported that examined the abilities of human observers to discriminate textures with identical distributions of orientation and spatial frequency. In Experiment 1, the stimuli consisted of low-pass filtered noise that was uniformly distributed and spatially isotropic. Observers were able to discriminate textures with identical image statistics when their frequencies were 1 cpd or less, but performance dropped off sharply for textures with higher frequencies. In Experiment 2, a novel procedure was employed with which it is possible to increase the high-frequency energy in the amplitude spectrum of a texture, while preserving the macroscopic alignments of its phase spectrum. The results reveal that this has little effect on performance, thus indicating that it is not spatial frequency per se that limits the abilities of observers to discriminate macroscopic texture patterns. When the phase spectra of these textures were randomly scrambled in Experiment 3, the frequency thresholds for discriminating textures reverted back to 1 cpd as was obtained in Experiment 1. These results provide strong evidence that human observers make use of two distinct procedures for discriminating patches of texture: One based on image statistics that is possible for all textures; and another based on macroscopic phase alignments that define features that are larger than 1.
A recent upsurge in unitary biological explanations for gender differences in behavior (i.e. that they are &quot;hard-wired&quot; in the genetic code), put forward not only in books written for a general audience but also in scientific papers, makes it important to examine the fallacies of these ideas. Such genetic and hormonal explanations of human behavior, formulated with little consideration of the influences of experience, and often without taking experience into account at all, are part of a new wave of genetic explanations for a broad range of human behavior, as explained in the paper. These ideas are far from new; moreover, they are pseudoscientific and are used for political influence under the guise of science. They are a conservative social force that maintains social and educational inequalities between women and men. This paper explains that causal explanations of differences between the sexes are of two completely different types: unitary (genetic determinist) versus interactive explanations. The false reasoning used to support genetic determinist explanations of sex differences in behavior is discussed. To illustrate what biology really tells us about gender differentiation, the paper discusses the interactive roles of genetic, hormonal and environmental influences on the development of gender differences. These interactions are illustrated using two model biological systems (e.g. the intertwined influences of genes, sex hormones and experience on the development of sex differences in behavior in rats, and sex differences in neuronal connections in chickens). There is plenty of scientific evidence to show the complex interactive, and ever changing, influences of experience and genes that take place as an organism develops and throughout its life. Malleability of brain and behavior can be shown clearly using animal models, and the processes involved apply also to the development of brain and behavior in humans. We diminish our understanding of the functions of a host of contributing factors to gender differentiation by parceling out the largest portion of control to the genes. The biology and behavior of humans is dynamic and flexible and need not restrict women to inferior positions in society.
Evidence of sex differences in intellectual capabilities remains scant and, rather than revealing genetic origin, it is complicated by the influence of social circumstances. Some inequities persist, and although these have been decreasing in recent decades, therefore, it remains a major task for policy makers and educators to assist in setting up programs, including mentoring opportunities, that are directed at alleviating such inequities. This paper outlines some historical circumstances in science and suggests that mentoring has to be understood in a wide systemic framework. The freedom to think and act and follow research ideas through is intrinsically rewarding to society and to the individual. For female scientists, it is a freedom that has yet to be fully developed and mentoring is just one way in which such a process can be legitimized. The paper outlines how institutions can best do this, and how this might work in practice for the individual, and argues that science needs to have its own code of mentoring.
The purpose of this study was to determine if event-related potential (ERP) data collected during three reading-related tasks (Letter Sound Matching, Nonword Rhyming, and Nonword Reading) could be used to predict short-term reading growth on a curriculum-based measure of word identification fluency over 19 weeks in a sample of 29 first-grade children. Results indicate that ERP responses to the Letter Sound Matching task were predictive of reading change and remained so after controlling for two previously validated behavioral predictors of reading, Rapid Letter Naming and Segmenting. ERP data for the other tasks were not correlated with reading change. The potential for cognitive neuroscience to enhance current methods of indexing responsiveness in a response-to-intervention (RTI) model is discussed.
Previous studies suggested that the beta-adrenergic receptor antagonist propranolol might be a novel, potential treatment for post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD). This hypothesis stemmed mainly from rodent studies showing that propranolol interferes with the reconsolidation of Pavlovian fear conditioning (FC). However, subsequent investigations in humans have produced controversial evidence about the effect of propranolol on fear memories and an effect on PTSD symptomatology has yet to be reported. Thus, it remains to be established whether propranolol interferes with the reconsolidation of fear memories at large. To address this question, we tested the effect of systemic injections of propranolol administered before or after the retrieval of an inhibitory avoidance (IA) memory elicited with different footshock intensities. In parallel, the same treatment was tested on the reconsolidation of Pavlovian FC. Propranolol showed no effect on the reconsolidation of IA, although the pre-retrieval administration resulted in a significant retrieval impairment. This impairment was transient, and memory returned to control levels at later times. In agreement with previous studies, we found that systemic administration of propranolol disrupts the reconsolidation of Pavlovian FC and that its injection following a retrieval elicited by cue exposure also interferes with the reconsolidation of contextual FC. Hence, propranolol disrupts the reconsolidation of Pavlovian FC, but has no effect on the reconsolidation of IA. The results indicate that the efficacy of systemic administration of propranolol in disrupting the reconsolidation of fear memories is limited.
The Tail Suspension Test (TST), which measures behavioral despair, is widely used as an animal model of human depressive disorders and antidepressant efficacy. In order to identify novel genes involved in the regulation of TST performance, we crossed an inbred strain exhibiting low immobility in the TST (RIIIS/J) with two high-immobility strains (C57BL/6J and NZB/BlNJ) to create two distinct F2 hybrid populations. All F2 offspring (n = 655) were genotyped at high density with a panel of SNP markers. Whole-genome interval mapping of the F2 populations identified statistically significant quantitative trait loci (QTLs) on mouse chromosomes (MMU) 4, 6, and X. Microarray analysis of hippocampal gene expression in the three parental strains was used to identify potential candidate genes within the MMUX QTLs identified in the NZB/BlNJ x RIIIS/J cross. Expression of Gabra3, which encodes the GABA(A) receptor alpha3 subunit, was robust in the hippocampus of B6 and RIIIS mice but absent from NZB hippocampal tissue. To verify the role of Gabra3 in regulating TST behavior in vivo, mice were treated with SB-205384, a positive modulator of the alpha3 subunit. SB-205384 significantly reduced TST immobility in B6 mice without affecting general activity, but it had no effect on behavior in NZB mice. This work suggests that GABRA3 regulates a behavioral endophenotype of depression and establishes this gene as a viable new target for the study and treatment of human depression.
