Insect sensory arrestins act to desensitize visual and olfactory signal transduction pathways, as evidenced by the phenotypic effects of mutations in the genes encoding both Arr1 and Arr2 in Drosophila melanogaster. To assess whether such arrestins play similar roles in other, more medically relevant dipterans, we examined the ability of Anopheles gambiae sensory arrestin homologs AgArr1 and AgArr2 to rescue phenotypes associated with an olfactory deficit observed in D. melanogaster arrestin mutants. Of these, only AgArr1 facilitated significant phenotypic rescue of the corresponding Drosophila arr mutant olfactory phenotype, consistent with the view that functional orthology is shared by these Arr1 homologs. These results represent the first step in the functional characterization of AgArr1, which is highly expressed in olfactory appendages of An. gambiae in which it is likely to play an essential role in olfactory signal transduction. In addition to providing insight into the common elements of the peripheral olfactory system of dipterans, this work validates the importance of AgArr1 as a potential target for novel anti-malaria strategies that focus on olfactory-based behaviors in An. gambiae.
The H2 allele of APOC1, giving rise to increased gene expression of apolipoprotein C-I (apoC-I), is in genetic disequilibrium with the APOE4 allele and may provide a major risk factor for Alzheimer's disease (AD). We found that apoC-I protein is present in astrocytes and endothelial cells within hippocampal regions in both human control and AD brains. Interestingly, apoC-I colocalized with beta-amyloid (Abeta) in plaques in AD brains, and in vitro experiments revealed that aggregation of Abeta was delayed in the presence of apoC-I. Moreover, apoC-I was found to exacerbate the soluble Abeta oligomer-induced neuronal death. To establish a potential role for apoC-I in cognitive functions, we used human (h) APOC1(+/0) transgenic mice that express APOC1 mRNA throughout their brains and apoC-I protein in astrocytes and endothelial cells. The hAPOC1(+/0) mice displayed impaired hippocampal-dependent learning and memory functions compared with their wild-type littermates, as judged from their performance in the object recognition task (P = 0.012) and in the Morris water maze task (P = 0.010). ApoC-I may affect learning as a result of its inhibitory properties toward apoE-dependent lipid metabolism. However, no differences in brain mRNA or protein levels of endogenous apoE were detected between transgenic and wild-type mice. In conclusion, human apoC-I expression impairs cognitive functions in mice independent of apoE expression, which supports the potential of a modulatory role for apoC-I during the development of AD.
Accurate diffusion measurements with pulsed gradient NMR are hampered by cross-terms of the diffusion-weighting and background gradients. For experiments based on a stimulated echo pulse sequence, that is preferred for samples with a T2 short compared to the diffusion time, a diffusion-weighting scheme has been presented that avoids these cross-terms in each of the en- and decoding periods separately. However, this approach suffers from a reduced diffusion-weighting efficiency because the two gradients applied in each of the periods have effectively opposite polarities leading to a partial cancellation. An extension of this scheme is presented that involves an additional gradient pulse in each period and delivers an improved diffusion-weighting efficiency without sacrificing the cross-term compensation. Analytical expressions for the gradient pulse lengths and amplitudes are given for arbitrary timing parameters. MR measurements with artificial (switched) background gradients were performed to test the cross-term compensation capability of the proposed extension. The results show that considerably higher q and b values can be achieved with the extension without changing the timing parameters. The MR measurements yielded identical diffusion coefficients without, with the same, and with different background gradients in the en- and decoding periods demonstrating the cross-term compensation of the presented approach.

In order to examine the influence that shape and chemistry of different materials have on the incitement of a tissue reaction, we implanted five materials (the two metals Ni and Co, the two ceramics TiO2 and SiO2, and the polymer poly vinyl-chloride) as nanoparticles or bulk, in the dorsal muscles of 50 rats. After 6 or 12 months, rats were euthanized and the implanted materials were excised together with the surrounding tissue. After a first histological evaluation, the specimens were prepared for environmental scanning electron microscopy (ESEM) and for energy dispersive spectroscopy (EDS), in order to analyse the chemical composition of the implanted material after the biological interaction had occurred, and to evaluate the possible corrosion and diffusion of the materials at tissue interface. The results indicate that the metals at nanoscale size have a carcinogenic effect, while the bulk materials only induce a foreign-body reaction. The ESEM observations show a chemical transformation of the materials. Corrosion of the metals and subsequent recombination of the released ions in a sort of organic-inorganic crystals is showed and verified by the EDS analyses. Finally, our hypotheses of the involved pathological mechanism are suggested.
Extracellular ATP exerts both short-term and long-term effects in the CNS by stimulating cell-surface purinergic receptors. Here we have examined the effect of purinergic receptor activation on N-cadherin expression, a calcium-dependent cell adhesion molecule involved in many processes, including glia-glia and axon-glia interactions. When primary cultures of rat cortical astrocytes were treated with ATP, N-cadherin protein expression increased in a time- and concentration-dependent manner. In addition, ATP treatment caused an increase in N-cadherin immunoreactivity in both the cytoplasm and on the cell surface membrane. Interestingly, experiments with cycloheximide revealed that relocalization of N-cadherin to the cell surface membrane were independent of protein synthesis. The ATP-induced increase in N-cadherin protein expression was blocked by reactive blue 2 and 8-(p-sulfophenyl)-theophylline, suggesting involvement of both P2 and P1 purinergic receptors, respectively. In addition, N-cadherin expression was partially blocked when signaling from purinergic receptors to extracellular signal regulated protein kinase or Akt was inhibited by 1,4-diamino-2,3-dicyano-1,4-bis(2-aminophenylthio)butadiene or wortmannin, respectively. By using an in vitro model of traumatic CNS injury, we found that N-cadherin expression was increased when astrocytes were subjected to rapid and reversible mechanical strain. The findings presented here demonstrate a role for extracellular ATP, purinergic receptors and protein kinase signaling in regulating N-cadherin expression and suggest a role for this mechanism in cell-cell interactions.
Glutamate clearance by astrocytes is critical for controlling excitatory neurotransmission and ATP is an important mediator for neuron-astrocyte interaction. However, the effect of ATP on glutamate clearance has never been examined. Here we report that treatment of RBA-2 cells, a type-2-like astrocyte cell line, with ATP and the P2X(7) receptor selective agonist 3'-O-(4-benzoylbenzoyl) adenosine 5'-triphosphate (BzATP) decreased the Na+-dependent [3H]glutamate uptake within minutes. Mechanistic studies revealed that the decreases were augmented by removal of extracellular Mg2+ or Ca2+, and was restored by P2X7 selective antagonist , periodate-oxidized 2',3'-dialdehyde ATP (oATP), indicating that the decreases were mediated through P2X(7) receptors. Furthermore, stimulation of P2X7 receptors for 2 h inhibited both activity and protein expression of glutamine synthetase (GS), and oATP abolished the inhibition. In addition, removal of extracellular Ca(2+) and inhibition of protein kinase C (PKC) restored the ATP-decreased GS expression but failed to restore the P2X(7)-decreased [3H]glutamate uptake. Therefore, P2X7-mediated intracellular signals play a role in the down-regulation of GS activity/expression. Activation of P2X7 receptors stimulated increases in intracellular Na+ concentration ([Na+](i)) suggesting that the P2X(7)-induced increases in [Na+](i) may affect the local Na+ gradient and decrease the Na+-dependent [3H]glutamate uptake. These findings demonstrate that the P2X7-mediated decreases in glutamate uptake and glutamine synthesis were mediated through distinct mechanisms in these cells.
Female mice are more susceptible to apolipoprotein E (apoE4)-induced cognitive deficits than male mice. These deficits can be antagonized by stimulating androgen receptors (ARs). To determine the role of AR in the cognitive effects of apoE4, we backcrossed mutant mice with a naturally occurring defect in the AR [testicular feminization mutant (tfm)] onto the Apoe-/- background to eliminate mouse apoE gene resulting in non-functional AR, and crossed the tfm/Apoe-/- female mice with apoE4 transgenic male mice. We behaviorally compared Apoe-/-, apoE4, tfm, and tfm/apoE4 male mice. Apoe-/-, apoE4, and tfm mice showed hippocampus-dependent novel location recognition but tfm/apoE4 mice did not. In contrast, all groups showed hippocampus-independent novel object recognition. Hippocampus-dependent learning and memory were also assessed in the water maze. In the water maze probe trial following the second day of hidden platform training, Apoe-/- and apoE4 mice showed spatial memory retention, but tfm and tfm/ApoE4 mice did not. In the water maze, probe trial following the third day of hidden platform training, Apoe-/-, apoE4, and tfm/Apoe-/- mice showed spatial memory retention, but tfm mice did not. These data support an important role for AR in protecting against the detrimental effects of apoE4 on hippocampus-dependent learning and memory.
In the mammalian brain, sleep and wakefulness are associated with widespread changes in gene expression. The extent to which the molecular correlates of vigilance state are conserved across phylogeny, however, is only beginning to be explored. The goal of this study was to determine whether sleep and wakefulness affect gene expression in the avian brain. To achieve this end we performed an extensive microarray analysis of gene expression during sleep, wakefulness, and short-term sleep deprivation in the telencephalon of the white-crowned sparrow (Zonotrichia leucophrys gambelii). We found that, as in the rodent cerebral cortex, behavioral state, independent of time of day, has widespread effects on avian brain gene expression, affecting the transcript levels of 255 genes (1.4% of all tested transcripts). Wakefulness-related transcripts (n = 114) code for proteins involved in energy metabolism and oxidative phosphorylation, immediate early genes and transcription factors associated with activity-dependent neural plasticity, as well as heat-shock proteins and molecular chaperones associated with the unfolded protein response. Sleep-related transcripts (n = 141) code for proteins involved in membrane trafficking, lipid/cholesterol synthesis, translational regulation, cellular adhesion, and cytoskeletal organization. Remarkably, despite the considerable differences in morphology and cytology between the mammalian neocortex and the avian telencephalon, the functional categories of transcripts identified in this study exhibit a significant degree of overlap with those identified in the rodent cortex.
Neurokinin peptides neurokinin-1 (NK1), neurokinin-3 (NK3), and related receptors are abundantly distributed in the substantia nigra (SN) and evidenced by their possible roles in the Parkinson's disease. Differential intervention roles of NK3 on kainic acid (KA)-induced neuronal injury in the SN of mice were thus in vitro and in vivo studied by Fluoro-Jade C (FJC) staining, immunohistochemistry to tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) or phospho-NMDA receptor, and 3-(4,5-dimethylthiazol-2-yl)-2,5-diphenyltetrazolium bromide assay. It revealed that (i) in contrast to protective effect of NK1 agonist septide that reduced FJC-positive degenerative neurons and lesion volume insulted by KA, NK3 agonist senktide significantly increased FJC-positive ones and lesion volume, and this effect was sufficiently reversed by NK3 antagonist SB218795; (ii) similarly, senktide reduced TH-positive neurons and this effect was antagonized by SB218795, but septide increased TH-positive ones; (iii) mechanistic observation showed differential influences of NK1 and NK3 agonists on phosphorylated-NMDA receptor subunit 1 (phospho-NMDAR1) and glial fibrillary acidic protein-expressing astrocytes, i.e. senktide enhanced of NMDA receptor phosphorylation and astrocyte activity, while septide reduced NMDA receptor phosphorylation and astrocytic response; (iv) cell culture further confirmed the exacerbating effect of NK3 agonist on KA-induced lesion of nigral cells or dopaminergic neurons, in which administration of senktide alone did not show significant cell toxicity. This study presents new evidence that neurokinin NK3 instead of NK1 synergistically exacerbate excitotoxic neuronal degeneration in the SN in a dose-dependent manner and possibly through modulation of NMDA receptor phosphorylation and astrocyte activity, suggesting their potential significance in novel pharmaceutical therapy against Parkinson's disease.
Intrauterine programming is the process by which the structure and function of tissues are altered permanently by insults acting during early development. In mammals, the placenta controls intrauterine development by supplying oxygen and nutrients, and by regulating the bioavailability of specific hormones involved in foetal growth and development. Consequently, the placenta is likely to have a key role in mediating the programming effects of suboptimal conditions during development. This review examines placental phenotype in different environmental conditions and places particular emphasis on regulation of placental nutrient transfer capacity and endocrine function by insults known to cause intrauterine programming. More specifically, it examines the effects of a range of environmental challenges on the size, morphology, blood flow and transporter abundance of the placenta and on its rate of consumption and production of nutrients. In addition, it considers the role of hormone synthesis and metabolism by the placenta in matching intrauterine development to the prevailing environmental conditions. The adaptive responses that the placenta can make to compensate for suboptimal conditions in utero are also assessed in relation to the strategies adopted to maximise foetal growth and viability at birth. Environmentally-induced changes in placental phenotype may provide a mechanism for transmitting the memory of early events to the foetus later in gestation, which leads to intrauterine programming of tissue development long after the original insult.
As a female transitions into motherhood, many neurobiological adaptations are required to meet the demands presented by her offspring. In addition to the traditional maternal responses (e.g. crouching, nursing, retrieving, grooming), our laboratories have observed several behavioural modifications accompanying parity, especially in the areas of foraging and emotional resilience. Additionally, brain modifications have been observed in the hippocampus and amygdala, providing support for neural plasticity extending beyond the expected hypothalamic alterations. Interestingly, we have observed parenting-induced neuroplasticity to persist into late adulthood, even providing protection against age-related brain and memory deficits. Although the majority of work on the parental brain has been conducted on females, preliminary research suggests similar changes in the biparental male California deer mouse. Taken together, research suggests that the parental brain is dynamic and changeable as it undergoes diverse and, in some cases, long-lasting, modifications to facilitate the production and care of offspring.

Subarachnoid haemorrhage (SAH) is less frequent than ischaemic stroke or intracerebral haemorrhage, but has a high public health relevance because it can affect young and middle-age adults, has considerable mortality and morbidity, it is treatable and preventable. SAH is traditionally a topic for neurosurgeons. However as endovascular interventions are becoming effective alternatives to surgical treatment, SAH should turn out to be of interest to neurologists, in particular to those devoted to stroke, emergency and neurointensive care. Despite stable incidence, the mortality of SAH has decreased in the last two decades due to better neurosurgical techniques and neurocritical care and to advances in interventional neuroradiological procedures. We review the recent advances in the clinical and diagnostic aspects of SAH and in the genetics of intracranial aneurysms. A systematic review of the treatment of SAH and grading of the available evidence is included.






Progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy is a fatal demyelinating disorder due to human polyomavirus JC infection in which there are viral inclusions in enlarged nuclei of infected oligodendrocytes. We report that the pathogenesis of this disease is associated with distinct subnuclear structures known as promyelocytic leukemia nuclear bodies (PML-NBs). Postmortem brain tissues from 5 patients with the disease were examined. Affected cells with enlarged nuclei contained distinct dot-like subnuclear PML-NBs that were immunopositive for PML protein and nuclear body protein Sp100. Major and minor viral capsid proteins and proliferating cell nuclear antigen, an essential component for DNA replication, colocalized with PML-NBs. By in situ hybridization, viral genomic DNA showed dot-like nuclear accumulation, and by electron microscopy, virus-like structures clustered in subnuclear domains, indicating that PML-NBs are the site of viral DNA replication and capsid assembly. Molecules involved in the ubiquitin proteosome pathway (i.e. ubiquitin and small ubiquitin-like modifier 1) did not accumulate in the nuclei with viral inclusions, indicating that cell degeneration may not be dependent on this pathway. When viral progeny production was advanced, PML-NBs were disrupted. These data suggest that: 1) PML-NBs allow for efficient viral propagation by providing scaffolds, 2) disruption of PML-NBs is independent of the ubiquitin-proteasome pathway, and 3) this disruption probably heralds oligodendrocyte degeneration and the resulting demyelination.
The diagnosis of Type 2 myotonic dystrophy (DM2/proximal myotonic myopathy) is often overlooked because of a nonspecific clinical presentation and muscle biopsy findings of a &quot;denervation-like&quot; pattern of unknown specificity that combines increased fiber size variation, central nucleation, small angulated fibers, Type 2 fiber atrophy, and nuclear clumps. We determined the presence of these features in 104 patients designated as having an unidentified myopathy from a series of 2,100 muscle biopsies. Because CCUG expansions form pathogenic ribonuclear accumulations that can be detected by in situ hybridization, we validated and then used automated (CCUG)8 in situ hybridization as a reference standard to evaluate the value of each histologic feature for DM2 detection, identifying 8 DM2-positive and 96 DM2-negative cases. Multivariate analyses identified the combination of Type 2 fiber atrophy and central nucleation as the most predictive of DM2 (sensitivity, 1.0; specificity, 0.92). These features were mutually exclusive in non-DM2 patients (p &lt; 0.0001). The relevance of this combination of features was confirmed in an additional independent series (15 DM2-positive vs 17 DM2-negative). Further investigation revealed that central nucleation selectively affects Type 2 fibers in DM2 and, conversely, that it affects Type 1 fibers in DM1 (p &lt; 0.0001). These results will facilitate the routine detection of DM2 and further support the concept that DM2 has a distinct pathophysiology involving type 2 myofibers.
We performed mechanical lesions of the midbody (D2-D3; second to third postcervical spinal segments) spinal cord in otherwise intact turtles to locate spinal cord pathways that 1) activate and control the amplitude of voluntary hindlimb swimming movements and 2) coordinate hindlimb swimming with the movement of other limbs. Pre- and postlesion turtles were held by a band clamp around the carapace just beneath the water surface in a clear Plexiglas tank and videotaped from below so that kinematic measurements could be made of voluntary forward swimming with motion analysis software. Movements of the forelimbs (wrists) and hindlimbs (knees and ankles) were tracked relative to stationary reference points on the plastron to obtain bilateral measurements of hip and forelimb angles as functions of time along with foot trajectories. We measured changes in limb movement amplitude, cycle period, and interlimb phase before and after spinal lesions. Our results indicate that locomotor command signals that activate and regulate the amplitude of voluntary hindlimb swimming travel primarily in the dorsolateral funiculus (DLF) at the D2-D3 level and cross over to drive contralateral hindlimb movements. This suggests that electrical stimulation of the D3 DLF, which was previously shown to evoke swimming movements in the contralateral hindlimb of low-spinal turtles, activated the same locomotor command pathways that the animal uses during voluntary behavior. We also show that forelimb-hindlimb coordination is maintained by longitudinal spinal pathways that are largely confined to the ventrolateral funiculus (VLF) and mediate phase coupling of ipsilateral limbs, presumably by interenlargement propriospinal fibers.
Primary auditory afferents are generally perceived as passive, timing-preserving lines of communication. Contrasting this view, identifiable auditory afferents to the goldfish Mauthner cell undergo potentiation of their mixed--electrical and chemical--synapses in response to high-frequency bursts of activity. This property likely represents a mechanism of input sensitization because they provide the Mauthner cell with essential information for the initiation of an escape response. Consistent with this synaptic specialization, we show here that these afferents exhibit an intrinsic ability to respond with bursts of 200-600 Hz and this property critically relies on the activation of a persistent sodium current, which is counterbalanced by the delayed activation of an A-type potassium current. Furthermore, the interaction between these conductances with the membrane passive properties supports the presence of electrical resonance, whose frequency preference is consistent with both the effective range of hearing in goldfish and the firing frequencies required for synaptic facilitation, an obligatory requisite for the induction of activity-dependent changes. Thus our data show that the presence of a persistent sodium current is functionally essential and allows these afferents to translate behaviorally relevant auditory signals into patterns of activity that match the requirements of their fast and highly modifiable synapses. The functional specializations of these neurons suggest that auditory afferents might be capable of more sophisticated contributions to auditory processing than has been generally recognized.
Rotation of an object held with three fingers is produced by modulation of force amplitude and direction at one or more contact points. Changes in the moment arm through which these forces act can also contribute to the modulation of the rotational moment. Therefore force amplitude and direction as well as the center of pressure on each contact surface must be carefully coordinated to produce a rotation. Because there is not a single solution, this study sought to describe consistent strategies for simple position-to-position rotations in the pitch, roll, and yaw axes. Force amplitude and direction, and center of pressure on the contact surfaces (and thus the moment arm), were measured as human subjects rotated a 420 g force-transducer instrumented object, grasped with the thumb, index and ring fingers (average movement time: 500 ms). Electromyographic (EMG) activity was recorded from five intrinsic and three extrinsic hand muscles and two wrist muscles. Principal components analysis of force and EMG revealed just two main temporal patterns: the main one followed rotational position and the secondary one had a time course that resembled that of rotational velocity. Although the task could have been accomplished by dynamic modulation of the activity of wrist muscles alone, these two main dynamic EMG patterns were seen in intrinsic hand muscles as well. In contrast to previous reports of shifting in time of the phasic activity bursts of various muscles, in this task, all EMG records were well described by just two temporal patterns, resembling the position and velocity traces.
Rhythmic arm movement reduces Hoffmann (H)-reflex amplitudes in leg muscles by modulation of presynaptic inhibition in group Ia transmission. To date only the acute effect occurring during arm movement has been studied. We hypothesized that the excitability of soleus H-reflexes would remain suppressed beyond a period of arm cycling conditioning. Subjects used a customized arm ergometer to perform rhythmic 1-Hz arm cycling for 30 min. H-reflexes were evoked before, during, and after arm cycling via stimulation of the tibial nerve in the popliteal fossa. The most important finding was that the H-reflex amplitudes were significantly suppressed during and &lt;or=20 min after arm cycling had been terminated. Thus remote arm cycling can induce adaptive plasticity in the soleus H-reflex pathway that persists beyond the period of conditioning. In an additional experiment, the prolonged effect of arm cycling combined with cutaneous superficial radial (SR) nerve stimulation was investigated. Cutaneous stimulation cancelled the prolonged suppression of H-reflex amplitude induced by arm cycling. Because SR nerve stimulation facilitates soleus H-reflex via reducing the level of Ia presynaptic inhibition, persistence in presynaptic inhibitory pathways is suggested as the underlying neural mechanism. The simplest explanation of this observation is plateau potential-like behavior of interneurons mediating presynaptic inhibition of Ia afferent transmission.
Responses of cortical neurons to sensory stimuli within their receptive fields can be profoundly altered by the stimulus context. In visual and somatosensory cortex, contextual interactions have been shown to change sign from facilitation to suppression depending on stimulus strength. Contextual modulation of high-contrast stimuli tends to be suppressive, but for low-contrast stimuli tends to be facilitative. This trade-off may optimize contextual integration by cortical cells and has been suggested to be a general feature of cortical processing, but it remains unknown whether a similar phenomenon occurs in auditory cortex. Here we used whole cell and single-unit recordings to investigate how contextual interactions in auditory cortical neurons depend on the relative intensity of masker and probe stimuli in a two-tone stimulus paradigm. We tested the hypothesis that relatively low-level probes should show facilitation, whereas relatively high-level probes should show suppression. We found that contextual interactions were primarily suppressive across all probe levels, and that relatively low-level probes were subject to stronger suppression than high-level probes. These results were virtually identical for spiking and subthreshold responses. This suggests that, unlike visual cortical neurons, auditory cortical neurons show maximal suppression rather than facilitation for relatively weak stimuli.
Birdsong is a learned motor skill that is performed with a high degree of stereotypy in adult birds. Nevertheless, even in species where song &quot;crystallizes&quot; in a form that remains stable over time, there is residual variability. Such variability in well-learned skills is often construed as uncontrolled and irrelevant biological &quot;noise.&quot; However, studies in the zebra finch indicate that variability in one song feature--the structure of individual syllables--is actively regulated and may serve a function. When male zebra finches sing alone (undirected song), variability in syllable structure is elevated relative to when they sing to females in a courtship context (female-directed song). This elevated variability is actively introduced to premotor structures controlling syllable production by a forebrain-basal ganglia circuit. Here we test whether social modulation of song variability extends to syllable sequencing, a hierarchically distinct feature of song organization controlled by separate neural substrates from syllable structure. We use Bengalese finches as a model species because, unlike zebra finches, they typically retain substantial moment-by-moment variability in the sequencing of syllables in crystallized adult song. We first show social modulation of previously studied song features, including syllable structure and song tempo. We then demonstrate that variability in syllable sequencing is rapidly modulated by social context with greater variability present in undirected song. These data indicate that the nervous system exerts active control over variability at multiple levels of song organization and support the hypothesis that such variability in otherwise stable adult song serves a function.
This review is the second of a two-part series focusing on the validity of eight clinical criteria for vascular dementia. Sixteen studies were selected according to their purposes and quality of experimental design. The analysis revealed that criteria for vascular dementia are not interchangeable; the eight criteria sets yielded different sensitivity and specificity results, as well as marked variability in incidence, prevalence, and frequency rates. Although the State of California Alzheimer's Disease Diagnostic and Treatment Centers (ADDTC) were the most sensitive and useful criteria in clinical settings and the National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke-Association Internationale pour la Recherche et l'Enseignement en Neurosciences (NINDS-AIREN) were the most specific and useful criteria in research, all criteria shared similar flaws. A definition of the cognitive syndrome, associated vascular causes or lesions, and methods of assessment should be clearly specified in the future. Suggestions for improvement are made.
This review is the first of a two-part series focusing on the comparability of eight clinical criteria used for the diagnosis of vascular dementia: the Hachinski Ischemic Scale; the Ischemic Scale of Rosen; the criteria proposed by the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorder-Third Edition (DSM-III), DSM-III-R, DSM-IV; International Classification of Diseases, 10th Revision (ICD-10); State of California Alzheimer's Disease Diagnostic and Treatment Centers (ADDTC); and the National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke-Association Internationale pour la Recherche et l'Enseignement en Neurosciences (NINDS-AIREN). The authors discuss the critical issues related to the definition of the cognitive syndromes as well as the vascular causes and associated heterogeneity of symptomatology across these criteria.
The need for a scope of practice for advanced practice neuroscience nurses was identified by the American Association of Neuroscience Nurses (AANN) in 2006. A task force consisting of advanced practice nurses (nurse practitioners and clinical nurse specialists) was commissioned by AANN and charged with the development of the document. Current information regarding the practices of advanced practice neuroscience nurses was needed as the task force began to develop this document. To best obtain this information, an electronic survey was created and distributed to advanced practice nurses within the AANN database. The survey questions included basic demographic data and sought information regarding activities and procedures performed by the advanced practice nurse. The results of this survey clearly reflect the diversity in practice and the integral role advanced practice neuroscience nurses play in the management of patients' care.


The present study investigated whether thrombin can induce the production of reactive oxygen species (ROS) through activation of neuronal NADPH oxidase and whether this contributes to oxidative damage and consequently to neurodegeneration. Immunocytochemical and biochemical evidence demonstrated that, in neuron-enriched hippocampal cultures, thrombin induces neurodegeneration in a dose-dependent manner. In parallel, ROS production was evident as assessed by analyzing DCF and hydroethidine. Real-time PCR analysis, at various time points after thrombin treatment, also demonstrated that expression of NADPH oxidase subunits (p47(phox) and p67(phox)) occurs. In addition, Western blot analysis and double-label immunocytochemistry showed an up-regulation in the expression of cytosolic components (Rac 1 and p67(phox)), the translocation of cytosolic proteins (p47(phox) and p67(phox)) to the membrane, and the localization of gp91(phox) or p47(phox) expression in hippocampal neurons of cultures and CA1 layer. The thrombin-induced ROS production, protein oxidation, and loss of cultured hippocampal neurons were partially attenuated by an NADPH oxidase inhibitor and/or by several antioxidants. Collectively, the present study is the first to demonstrate that, in cultured hippocampal neurons, thrombin-induced neurotoxicity is, at least in part, caused by neuronal NADPH oxidase-mediated oxidative stress. This strongly suggests that thrombin can act as an endogenous neurotoxin, and inhibitors of thrombin and/or antioxidants can be useful agents for treating oxidative stress-mediated hippocampal neurodegenerative diseases, such as Alzheimer's disease.
Synaptotagmin I (Syt I) is a Ca2+-binding protein on synaptic vesicles and presumably functions as a Ca2+ sensor for neurotransmitter release. Native Syt I protein in neuroendocrine PC12 cells undergoes several posttranslational modifications, such as O-glycosylation, N-glycosylation, and fatty acylation, and the latter two modifications have been shown to be required for the proper function of murine Syt I in PC12 cells. However, nothing is known about the physiological significance of the O-glycosylation of Syt I in dense-core vesicle exocytosis in PC12 cells. In this study, we created an O-glycosylation-deficient mutant (named TA = T15A/T16A) and an N-glycosylation-deficient mutant of Syt I (named T26A) and investigated their subcellular distribution in Syt I-deficient PC12 cells, where other Syt isoforms (e.g., IV and IX) and other membrane trafficking proteins (e.g., Rab27A, SNAP-25, syntaxin-1, and VAMP-2) are normally expressed. We found that some cells expressing high level of recombinant wild-type (WT) Syt I protein show mistargeting of Syt I(WT) protein to the plasma membrane, whereas most of the cells show normal dense-core vesicle localization of Syt I(WT) protein. Similar mistargeting was also observed in cells expressing high levels of the Syt I(T26A) and Syt I(TA) mutants, but the mistargeting of the Syt I(TA) mutant to the plasma membrane was much more evident than with the Syt I(WT) or (T26A) mutant. The results indicate that O-glycosylation, not N-glycosylation, is partially involved in efficient targeting of Syt I protein to dense-core vesicles in PC12 cells.
Preconditioning of sublethal ischemia exhibits neuroprotection against subsequent ischemia-induced neuronal death. It has been indicated that glutamate, an excitatory amino acid, is involved in the pathogenesis of ischemia-induced neuronal death or neurodegeneration. To elucidate whether prestimulation of glutamate receptor could counter ischemia-induced neuronal death or neurodegeneration, we examined the effect of alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazole propionate (AMPA), an ionotropic subtype of glutamate receptor, on excess glutamate-induced excitotoxicity using primary cortical neuronal cultures. We found that AMPA exerted a neuroprotective effect in a time- and concentration-dependent manner. A blocker of phosphatidylinositol-3 kinase (PI3K), LY294002 (10 microM), significantly attenuated AMPA-induced protection. In addition, Ser473 of Akt/PKB, a downstream target of PI3K, was phosphorylated by AMPA administration (10 microM). Glycogen synthase kinase 3beta (GSK3beta), which has been reported to be inactivated by Akt, was phosphorylated at Ser9 by AMPA. Ser9-phosphorylated GSK3beta or inactivated form would be a key molecule for neuroprotection, insofar as lithium chloride (100 microM) and SB216763 (10 microM), inhibitors of GSK3beta, also induced phosphorylation of GSK3beta at Ser9 and exerted neuroprotection, respectively. Glutamate (100 microM) increased cleaved caspase-3, an apoptosis-related cysteine protease, and caspase-3 inhibitor (Ac-DEVD-CHO; 1 microM) blocked glutamate-induced excitotoxicity in our culture. AMPA (10 microM, 24 hr) and SB216763 (10 microM) prominently decreased glutamate-induced caspase-3 cleavage. These findings suggest that AMPA activates PI3K-Akt and subsequently inhibits GSK3beta and that inactivated GSK3beta attenuates glutamate-induced caspase-3 cleavage and neurotoxicity.
Localization and targeting of depth electrodes in specific regions of the human brain is critical for accurate clinical diagnoses and treatment as well as for neuroscientific electrophysiological research. By using high-resolution magnetic resonance imaging combined with 2D computational unfolding, the authors present a method that improves electrode localization in the medial temporal lobe. This method permits visualization of electrode placements in subregions of the hippocampus and parahippocampal gyrus, allowing for greater specificity in relating electrophysiological and anatomical features in the human medial temporal lobe. Such methods may be extended to therapeutic procedures targeting specific neuronal circuitry in subfields of structures deep in the human brain.
Although intracranial metastases of malignant melanomas are common, localization at the cerebellopontine angle (CPA) or in the internal auditory canal (IAC) is rare, and bilateral presentation especially so. We present the case of a 46-year-old Caucasian woman with bilateral IAC/CPA lesions and a prior history of malignant melanoma on the right leg. During preoperative investigations, the presence of the bilateral IAC/CPA lesions along with several radiologically identified lesions along the neural axis led to the suspicion that she had neurofibromatosis Type 2 despite her history of malignant melanoma and the lack of characteristic skin lesions and family history. Histopathological analysis of the resected lesion confirmed the intraoperative diagnosis of bilateral CPA malignant melanoma metastases. Surgical removal of the tumors via the retrosigmoid approach with preservation of normal bilateral facial nerve function and unilateral serviceable hearing, combined with control of the systemic disease, provided this patient with a near-normal quality of life for at least 42 months after the initial diagnosis of melanoma.

Chondroitin sulfate proteoglycans (CSPGs) inhibit axonal growth, and treatment with chondroitinase ABC promotes axonal regeneration in some models of central nervous system (CNS) injury. The aims of this study were (1) to compare the spatiotemporal appearance of CSPG expression between spinal cord contusion and hemisection models, and (2) to evaluate chondroitinase treatment effects on axonal regrowth in the two injury models. After hemisection, CSPG-immunoreactivity (IR) in the injury site rose to peak levels at 18 days but then decreased dramatically by 49 days; in contrast, CSPG-IR remained high for at least 49 days after contusion. After hemisection, many anterogradely labeled corticospinal tract (CST) axons remained close to CSPG-rich lesion sites, but after contusion, most CST axons retracted by approximately 1 mm rostral from the rostral-most CSPG-rich cyst. Intraspinal injection of chondroitinase at 0, 1, 2, and 4 weeks following injury dramatically reduced CSPG-IR in both injury models within 4 days, and CSPG-IR remained low for at least 3 weeks. After the chondroitinase treatment, many axons grew around the lesion site in hemisected spinal cords but not in contused spinal cords. We propose that improved axonal growth in hemisected spinal cords is due to decreased inhibition resulting from degradation of CSPGs located adjacent to severed CST axons. However, in spinal cord contusions, retracted CST axons fail to grow across gliotic regions that surround CSPG-rich injury sites despite efficient degradation with chondroitinase, suggesting that other inhibitors of axonal growth persist in the gliotic regions.
Although cytomegalovirus (CMV) congenital infection is more severe in children born to women with primary infection, neurological symptoms have also been observed in infants born to mothers with preconceptional immunity. The authors describe for the first time a case of severe cortical development disorder associated with multiple abnormalities of the white matter, occurring in the second-born child of a woman found to be positive for anti-CMV immunoglobulin G (IgG) before pregnancy. CMV DNA was detected in the urine and blood of the infant. These findings indicate that the neurological outcome of CMV infection may be severe also in infants born to women with preexisting immunity.
In July of 2006, the National Institute of Mental Health (NIMH) Center for Mental Health Research on AIDS (CMHRA) sponsored the second conference on the Assessment of NeuroAIDS in Africa, which was held in Arusha, Tanzania. The conference mission was to address the regional variations in epidemiology of HIV-related neurological disorders as well as the assessment and diagnosis of these disorders. Participants discussed and presented data regarding the relevance and translation of neuroAIDS assessment measures developed in resource intensive settings and the challenges of neuro-assessment in Africa, including the applicability of current tools, higher prevalence of confounding diseases, and the complexity of diverse cultural settings. The conference presentations summarized here highlight the need for further research on neuroAIDS in Africa and methods for assessing HIV-related neurological disorders.



Bell's palsy occurs less frequently in children than in adults. It is important to consider other diagnosis when a child presents with an unilateral rapid onset lower motor neurone Vll nerve paresis. We propose guidelines for the management of Bell's plasy in childhood.
The major adverse consequences of radiation exposure, including the initiation of leukaemia and other malignancies, are generally attributed to effects in the cell nucleus at the time of irradiation. However, genomic damage as a longer term consequence of radiation exposure has more recently been demonstrated due to untargeted radiation effects including delayed chromosomal instability and bystander effects. These processes, mainly studied in vitro, are characterized by un-irradiated cells demonstrating effects as though they themselves had been irradiated and have been associated with altered oxidative processes. To investigate the potential for these untargeted effects of radiation to produce delayed damaging events in vivo, we studied a well-characterized model of radiation-induced acute myeloid leukaemia in CBA/Ca mice. Haemopoietic tissues of irradiated CBA/Ca mice exhibit enhanced levels of p53 stabilization, increased levels of p21(waf1), and increased amounts of apoptosis, as expected, in the first few hours post-irradiation, but also at much later times: weeks and months after the initial exposure. Because these responses are seen in cells that were not themselves directly irradiated but are the descendants of irradiated cells, the data are consistent with an initial radiation exposure leading to persistently increased levels of ongoing DNA damage, analogous to radiation-induced chromosomal instability. To investigate the potential source of ongoing oxidative processes, we show increased levels of 3-nitrotyrosine, a marker of damaging nitrogen/oxygen species in macrophages. Not all animals show increased oxidative activity or p53 responses as long-term consequences of irradiation, but increased levels of p53, p21, and apoptosis are directly correlated with increased 3-nitrotyrosine in individual mice post-irradiation. The data implicate persistent activation of inflammatory-type responses in irradiated tissues as a contributory bystander mechanism for causing delayed DNA damage.

The profound alterations produced by cocaine on dopamine (DA) neurotransmission raise the possibility that dopamine transporter (DAT)-expressing neurons may modify DA transport in response to repeated cocaine exposure to maintain the appropriate efficiency of DA clearance. In this study, we determined the changes in molecular mechanisms of DAT regulation in rats with a history of repeated cocaine self-administration followed by 3 weeks of abstinence. Using ex vivo caudate putamen (CPu) and nucleus accumbens (NAcc) synaptosomal preparations, we found that DA uptake was significantly higher in the CPu and NAcc of cocaine-experienced animals compared with yoked saline animals. Surface distribution, p-Ser phosphorylation, and protein phosphatase 2A catalytic subunit (PP2Ac) interaction of DAT were all altered in the CPu. Maximal velocity (V(max)) values were elevated both in the CPu and NAcc of cocaine-experienced rats compared with saline controls. Although there was no change in the apparent affinity for DA in the CPu, increased DA affinity was evident in the NAcc. Consistent with elevated DAT activity in cocaine-experienced animals, a higher level of surface DAT, DAT-PP2Ac association, and decreased serine phosphorylation of DAT were observed in the CPu, but not in the NAcc. These results, for the first time, suggest that chronic cocaine self-administration followed by abstinence leads to persisting alterations in normal DAT trafficking and catalytic regulatory cascades in the CPu and NAcc in a brain region-specific manner.
5-Hydroxytryptamine (5-HT)(1A) receptors play an important role in multiple cognitive processes, and compelling evidence suggests that 5-HT(1A) antagonists can reverse cognitive impairment. We have examined the therapeutic potential of a potent (K(i) = 1.1 nM), selective (&gt;100-fold), orally bioavailable, silent 5-HT(1A) receptor antagonist (K(B) = 1.3 nM) (R)-N-(2-methyl-(4-indolyl-1-piperazinyl)-ethyl)-N-(2-pyridinyl)-cyclohexane carboxamide (WAY-101405). Oral administration of WAY-101405 was shown to be effective in multiple rodent models of learning and memory. In a novel object recognition paradigm, 1 mg/kg enhanced retention (memory) for previously learned information, and it was able to reverse the memory deficits induced by scopolamine. WAY-101405 (1 mg/kg) was also able to reverse scopolamine-induced deficits in a rat contextual fear conditioning model. In the Morris water maze, WAY-101405 (3 mg/kg) significantly improved learning in a paradigm of increasing task difficulty. In vivo microdialysis studies in the dorsal hippocampus of freely moving adult rats demonstrated that acute administration of WAY-101405 (10 mg/kg) increased extracellular acetylcholine levels. The selective radioligand [(3)H]WAY-100635, administered i.v., was used for in vivo receptor occupancy studies, where WAY-101405 occupied 5-HT(1A) receptors in the rat cortex, with an ED(50) value of 0.1 mg/kg p.o. Taken together, these studies demonstrate that WAY-101405 is a potent and selective, brain penetrant, orally bioavailable 5-HT(1A) receptor &quot;silent&quot; antagonist that is effective in preclinical memory paradigms at doses where approximately 90% of the postsynaptic 5-HT(1A) receptors are occupied. These results further support the rationale for use of this compound class in the treatment of cognitive dysfunction associated with psychiatric and neurological conditions.
The role of postsynaptic action potentials (APs) in the induction of long-term potentiation (LTP) remains unclear, but has important implications for theories of associative learning in the brain. In area CA1 of hippocampus, at least three discrete forms of LTP coexist, each displaying unique decay kinetics and involving different signalling and effector systems. The present work investigates whether these forms of LTP also differ in their requirement for postsynaptic APs. Inhibition of APs during theta-burst stimulation (TBS) had no effect on the persistence of short-lasting LTP (LTP 1), but reduced the persistence of more durable forms (LTP 2 and 3). Calcium imaging revealed different requirements for APs in generating calcium signals in spines, dendrites, and somata, consistent with their known roles in the induction of each form of LTP. Finally, short-lasting LTP was endowed with dramatically enhanced persistence by the presentation of TBS-patterned APs alone. These data reveal that the requirement for APs in LTP induction is dependent on the form of LTP under investigation, supporting the contention that different neuronal learning mechanisms coexist in hippocampal area CA1.

It has recently been demonstrated that the spinal cord (SC) is an active production center of neuroactive steroids including pregnenolone, dehydroepiandrosterone, progesterone and allopregnanolone. Indeed, anatomical, cellular and biochemical investigations have shown that the SC dorsal horn (DH), a pivotal structure in nociception, contains various active steroidogenic enzymes such as cytochrome P450side-chain-cleavage, cytochrome P450c17, 3beta-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase, 5alpha-reductase and 3alpha-hydroxysteroid oxido-reductase. Reviewed here are several data obtained with in vitro and vivo experiments showing that endogenous steroids synthesized in the SC are involved in the modulation of nociceptive mechanisms. Various approaches were used as the real-time polymerase chain reaction after reverse transcription to determine the effects of neuropathic pain on the expression of genes encoding steroidogenic enzymes in the DH. Combination of the pulse-chase technique with high performance liquid chromatography and continuous flow scintillation detection allowed investigations of the impact of noxious signals on the activity of steroid-producing enzymes in the SC in vitro. Radioimmunological analyses of spinal tissue extracts contributed to determine the link between the painful state and endogenous steroid secretion in the SC in vivo. Finally, the physiological relevance of the modification of endogenous steroid formation in the SC during painful situation was discussed.
The sexual differentiation of reproductive physiology and behavior in the rodent brain is largely determined by estradiol aromatized from testicular androgens. The cellular mechanisms by which estradiol masculinizes the brain are beginning to emerge and revealing novel features of brain development that are highly region-specific. In the preoptic area, the major site controlling male sexual behavior, estradiol increases the level of the COX-2 enzyme and its product, prostaglandin E2 which promotes dendritic spine synaptogenesis. In the ventromedial nucleus of the hypothalamus, the major site controlling female reproductive behavior, estradiol promotes glutamate release from synaptic terminals, activating NMDA receptors and the MAP kinase pathway. In the arcuate nucleus, a major regulator of anterior pituitary function, estradiol increases GABA synthesis, altering the morphology of neighboring astrocytes and reducing formation of dendritic spines synapses. Glutamate, GABA and the importance of neuronal-astrocytic cross-talk are emerging as common aspects of masculinization. Advances are also being made in the mechanistic basis of female brain development, although the challenges are far greater.
A 43-year-old lady, known case of sickle cell disease (SCD) was admitted in sickle cell crises and developed a left frontal intracerebral hematoma. She worsened further neurologically and was found to have developed a large left middle cerebral artery (MCA) infarct. Angiogram showed Moyamoya pattern. The patient was managed conservatively with exchange transfusions and made good recovery. She is being maintained on monthly exchange transfusions and hydroxyurea. Such a presentation has been described infrequently, that too mostly in children. Only once, it has been reported with adult SCD. Diagnostic and management controversies are discussed in the light of available literature.

A learning-cycle approach to science instruction is not new to science educators (Karplus, 1977; Kolb, 1984; Bergquist, 1991; Zollman, 1990; Allard and Barman, 1994). Somewhat less known, however, is the usefulness of this approach for creating lab activities for a broad audience of undergraduates. The following paper presents a brief overview of a laboratory activity that can be adapted for use by instructors of introductory neuroscience courses. The three-hour activity is geared towards tapping key elements of the learning-cycle approach, with a particular emphasis on the exploration phase of the model. Students work as members of small teams to explore a contemporary issue involving memory and gain hands-on experience from the outset, to which conceptual information is then added during lecture the following week. The approach is in marked contrast to the more traditional practice in the sciences where laboratory activities generally serve to punctuate already presented lecture material.
One challenge of neuroscience educators is to make accessible to students as many aspects of brain structure and function as possible. The anatomy and function of the cerebrovasculature is among many topics of neuroscience that are underrepresented in undergraduate neuroscience education. Recognizing this deficit, we evaluated methods to produce archival tissue specimens of the cerebrovasculature and the &quot;neurovascular unit&quot; for instruction and demonstration in the teaching lab. An additional goal of this project was to identify the costs of each method as well as to determine which method(s) could be adapted into lab exercises, where students participate in the tissue preparation, staining, etc. In the present report, we detail several methods for demonstrating the cerebrovasculature and suggest that including this material can be a valuable addition to more traditional anatomy/physiology demonstrations and exercises.
We developed an online multimedia tool designed to enhance the student-learning environment in neurosciences through multi-sensory engagement. The combined use of scrolling text, narrations, and visual imagery engages multiple sensory modalities for effective learning, and it assists students in visualizing complex processes in the nervous system. The initial rollout of the online tool is for instruction in Parkinson's disease (PD), but its structure is flexible and can be used for teaching a variety of subjects. The instructor can access the tool online during lecture, and students can access the same information via the internet outside of class. In addition, each chapter is stand-alone and thus can be accessed online by other faculty or students to supplement other courses. Within each chapter or module, information is presented in outline format with greater detail accessible via sequential drop-down menus. This layering of related topics creates a spatial and motor-accessed path for learning. These multiple forms of engagement offer rich information representations to improve students' knowledge encoding, storing, and retrieval via multiple pathways. For instance, the tool includes student-controlled 2-D and 3-D animations, and video clip demonstrations of both patient case studies and on-campus research projects directly related to the subject material. Supplemental readings consist of current research articles (in Adobe Acrobat PDF file format) accessed within each educational topic. The teaching tool for PD is online at http://geroauen.usc.edu/Gero414_Beta/.
Paralleling the explosive growth of neuroscientific knowledge over the last two decades, numerous institutions from liberal arts colleges to research universities have either implemented or begun exploring the possibility of implementing undergraduate programs in neuroscience. In 1995, Faculty for Undergraduate Neuroscience (FUN) partnered with Project Kaleidoscope (PKAL) to offer a workshop exploring how undergraduate neuroscience education should proceed. Four blueprints were created to provide direction to the burgeoning interest in developing programs in undergraduate neuroscience education: 1) Neuroscience nested in psychology; 2) Neuroscience nested in biology; 3) Neuroscience as a minor; and 4) Neuroscience as a major. In 2005, FUN again partnered with PKAL to revisit the blueprints in order to align the blueprints with modern pedagogical philosophy and technology. The original four blueprints were modified and updated. One particularly exciting outgrowth of the 2005 workshop was the introduction of a fifth curricular blueprint that strongly emphasizes the integration of the humanities and social sciences into neuroscience: Neuroscience Studies. Because of the interdisciplinary nature of neuroscience, an education in neuroscience will prepare the next generation of students to think critically, synthetically, and creatively as they confront the problems facing humanity in the 21(st) century.
Introductory Neuroscience courses are being offered more regularly at diverse institutions. On the other hand, the creation of an independent laboratory curriculum for introductory neuroscience courses puts a strain on financial and human resources of a small college. A solution to this situation might be presented through the use of relevant simulation software in order to eliminate the binding of resources; but nevertheless, provide sufficient, effective, and engaging education to students. This paper suggests the use of a combination of different software during Introductory Neuroscience laboratory sessions, which are finely tuned with the material presented during lecture. Two student cohorts were evaluated and compared using three types of measures: exam grades, course evaluations, and software evaluations. The results show that the use of software simulations had a positive effect on the performance of students on exams, and on the favorability of course ratings. The findings suggest the use of software simulations for Introductory Neuroscience courses to be beneficial for the learning experience of the students.
Systemic osmoregulation is an integrated physiological process through which water intake and excretion are continuously balanced against salt intake and excretion to maintain the osmolality of the extracellular fluid near an optimal 'set-point' value. The behaviors (that is, thirst and sodium appetite) and renal responses (diuresis and natriuresis) that are modulated to mediate osmoregulatory homeostasis are mainly controlled by the nervous system. Appropriate regulation of these parameters depends in large part on specialized osmosensitive neurons, termed osmoreceptors, which convert changes in plasma osmolality into electrical signals that ultimately modulate effector functions to achieve homeostasis. Previous work has shown that mechanosensitive cation channels expressed in osmoreceptor neurons play a key role in the process of osmosensory transduction. Although the molecular identity of these channels remains unknown, a growing body of evidence, reviewed here, indicates that members of the transient receptor potential vanilloid family of ion channels may contribute to osmosensory transduction and to homeostatic responses implicated in the control of water balance.
The relation between acute ischaemic stroke and infection is complex. Infection appears to be an important trigger that precedes up to a third of ischaemic strokes and can bring about stroke through a range of potential mechanisms. Infections that present subsequent to stroke also complicate up to a third of cases of stroke and might worsen outcome. Inflammatory responses, which are a defence mechanism against infection but can also be a pathogenic mechanism that precipitates stroke and neurological sequelae, are important features. Although factors such as stroke severity and dysphagia are important predictors of poststroke infection, there is evidence from experimental and clinical settings of impaired immunity or brain-induced immunodepression after stroke. Greater understanding of the relation between inflammation and both infection and ischaemic mechanisms is needed. This might be particularly important because new treatment strategies for acute ischaemic stroke are being investigated, including those that modulate cytokines and the immune system.

Here we demonstrate a new basis of signal change in magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) related to neuronal function, independent of blood oxygenation or flow. Time series MRI data acquired from living, superfused brain slices of adult rats revealed that the signal intensity reversibly increased with depolarization evoked by briefly elevating extracellular K(+). This was presumably a consequence of increased tissue water in the intracellular compartment. Reversible increases in light transmittance (LT) demonstrating a similar time course in response to K(+) elevation supported cellular swelling as generating the MRI signal intensity changes. This was confirmed by reversibly swelling cells in the slice under hypoosmotic challenge, which increased both MRI and LT signals with an identical time course. Conversely, shrinking cells under hyperosmotic challenge reversibly decreased the MRI and LT signals. We propose that specific MRI of neuronal function (fMRI) signals detected under identical parameters during predominantly proton-density-weighted fMRI of the spinal cord can now be explained by neuronal and glial swelling in activated central nervous system (CNS) regions. These observations demonstrate the biophysical basis of the fMRI contrast mechanism that has been termed &quot;signal enhancement by extravascular water protons,&quot; or SEEP.
We described an intracranial immature teratoma in a 13 year old Malay boy who presented with history of chronic headache and blurring of vision. Physical findings revealed bilateral papilloedema but no other localizing sign. A Magnetic Resonance Imaging of the brain revealed a suprasellar well defined lobulated midline heterogenous mass which was intraoperatively described as mainly solid tumour with multiple small cystic component filled with yellowish jelly like material. Histopathological finding confirmed the case as immature teratoma. Molecular genetic analysis of p53 and p27 genes revealed substitution of nucleotide G to C at location nucleotide 12139, exon 4 of gene p53. No alteration was detected at exon 5-6 and 8 of p53 gene and exon 1 and 2 of p27 gene. This is the first case report of an intracranial immature teratoma with genetic mutation occuring in a Malay boy.
Loss of function mutations in the p53 tumor suppressor gene predispose mice and humans to cancer, resulting in abbreviated life spans. A dominant mutation in the murine HD gene, similar to mutations that cause Huntington's disease in humans, reverses some of the effects of p53 mutations on longevity. We attribute this to the enhanced apoptotic effect of the expanded polyglutamine region in the HD protein on proliferating cells lacking p53.
Pedro Valds spent his childhood in Chicago, Illinois, USA, where he says his love of science began. After his family returned to Cuba in 1961, he studied medicine, received his PhD in biological sciences, and in 1990 at the age of 40, founded the Cuban Neuroscience Center with a group of young scientists that included his brother Mitchell, now the Center's Director. Since then, the Center has accumulated an impressive record developing patented neuroimaging diagnostic equipment for national use and export, a nationwide infant screening program for hearing loss, and the Cuban Brain Mapping Project, among other pioneering efforts. The Center's recruitment of new graduates keeps the median age of its professionals at 28, and its scientists are the island's most widely published outside of Cuba.
Utilizing advances in functional neuroimaging and computational neural modeling, neuroscientists have increasingly sought to investigate how distributed networks, composed of functionally defined subregions, combine to produce cognition. Large-scale, biologically realistic neural models, which integrate data from cellular, regional, whole brain, and behavioral sources, delineate specific hypotheses about how these interacting neural populations might carry out high-level cognitive tasks. In this review, we discuss neuroimaging, neural modeling, and the utility of large-scale biologically realistic models using modeling of short-term memory as an example. We present a sketch of the data regarding the neural basis of short-term memory from non-human electrophysiological, computational and neuroimaging perspectives, highlighting the multiple interacting brain regions believed to be involved. Through a review of several efforts, including our own, to combine neural modeling and neuroimaging data, we argue that large scale neural models provide specific advantages in understanding the distributed networks underlying cognition and behavior.
Noninvasive stimulation of the brain by means of transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) or transcranial direct current stimulation (tDCS) has driven important discoveries in the field of human memory functions. Stand-alone or in combination with other brain mapping techniques noninvasive brain stimulation can assess issues such as location and timing of brain activity, connectivity and plasticity of neural circuits and functional relevance of a circumscribed brain area to a given cognitive task. In this emerging field, major advances in technology have been made in a relatively short period. New stimulation protocols and, especially, the progress in the application of tDCS have made it possible to obtain longer and much clearer inhibitory or facilitatory effects even after the stimulation has ceased. In this introductory review, we outline the basic principles, discuss technical limitations and describe how noninvasive brain stimulation can be used to study human memory functions in vivo. Though improvement of cognitive functions through noninvasive brain stimulation is promising, it still remains an exciting challenge to extend the use of TMS and tDCS from research tools in neuroscience to the treatment of neurological and psychiatric patients.
Human memory is not a unitary function; it consists of multiple memory systems, with different characteristics and specialisations that are implemented in the brain. The cognitive neuroscience of human memory tries to comprehend how we encode, store, and retrieve memory items within and across those systems. The emergence of functional neuroimaging techniques offered the unprecedented opportunity to directly observe the brain regions engaged in memory functions. Brain imaging techniques can roughly be divided into those measuring the electric or magnetic fields generated by neuronal activity (EEG, magnetencephalography [MEG]) and those measuring the haemodynamic or metabolic sequelae of neuronal activity (positron emission tomography [PET], functional magnetic resonance imaging [fMRI]). Out of these techniques, the following two will be discussed in detail: fMRI and PET. Although functional neuroimaging is able to acquire images of the brain engaged in consolidating or retrieving memories, these processes are not clearly visible in the data. Statistical techniques are needed to reduce the complexity of the data and to extract the processes of interest. This article outlines the experimental and analytical procedures of neuroimaging studies with PET and fMRI. We will use a PET-study on episodic memory in human volunteers to illustrate design, analysis, and interpretation of functional imaging studies on memory.
Endothelial cells assemble unique barriers that confer specific permeability requirements at different vascular segments. We examined lung microvascular and artery endothelial cells to gain insight into mechanisms for segment-specific barrier functions. Transendothelial electrical resistance was significantly higher in microvascular barriers, and a 50% reduction in barrier function required 5-fold higher concentration of cytochalasin D in the microvascular compared to the arterial barrier. Transcriptional profiling studies identified N-cadherin and activated leukocyte cell adhesion molecule (ALCAM) to be most highly expressed in microvascular than in pulmonary artery endothelial cells. ALCAM was detected in microvascular endothelial cells in the alveolar septum but not in endothelial cells in larger pulmonary vessels in situ. This pattern was retained in culture as ALCAM was recruited to cell junctions in pulmonary microvascular endothelial cells but remained predominantly cytosolic in pulmonary artery endothelial cells. Confocal analysis revealed ALCAM in the lateral plasma membrane domain where it co-localized with N- and VE-cadherin. This finding was supported by co-immunoprecipitation studies demonstrating the presence of ALCAM in multiple adherens junction protein complexes. These functional, biophysical and molecular findings suggest specialization of the adherens junction as a basis for a highly restrictive endothelial barrier to control fluid flux into the alveolar airspace.
Integration of intraoperative diffusion-weighted imaging (iDWI) into neuronavigation can be potentially useful for identification of the pyramidal tract during surgery for parenchymal brain lesions. The technique of iDWI using an intraoperative MR scanner of low magnetic field strength (0.3 Tesla) has been developed. For image acquisition, a specially designed solenoid radiofrequency receiver coil integrated with a modified Sugita head holder (head-holder coil) was used. While the sensitivity characteristics of the head-holder coil were found to be 29% lower compared to a diagnostic quadrature head coil, they were sufficient to obtain iDWI images of good quality. The relationship between the angle of the motion probe gradient (MPG) pulse to the vertical axis and pyramidal tract contrasting were examined in 4 healthy men with a mean age of 30+/-5.7 years. The contrast ratio reached a maximum when the MPG pulse was applied exactly in the anteroposterior direction. The difference of the contrast ratio between right and left sides was not statistically significant. Pyramidal tract visualization became worse and the contrast ratio was reduced when the MPG pulse was applied at different angles to the vertical axis; the reduction rate varied from 20.1 to 27.9% for each 15 degrees of rotation irrespective of its side. In conclusion, the developed scanning protocol for iDWI using an originally designed head-holder coil allowed effective visualization of the pyramidal tracts using an intraoperative MR scanner of low magnetic field strength.
Endocannabinoids (eCBs) are important endogenous lipid mediators in synaptic transmission and plasticity and are oxygenated by cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) to form new types of prostaglandins. However, little is known about whether COX-2 oxidative metabolism of eCBs and their metabolites alter synaptic signaling. Here we demonstrate that increased COX-2 expression significantly enhances basal synaptic transmission and augments long-term potentiation (LTP) in the mouse hippocampus. This augmentation was inhibited in the presence of a selective COX-2 inhibitor or with deletion of the COX-2 gene. The CB(1) receptor-mediated depolarization-induced suppression of inhibition (DSI) was diminished when COX-2 expression was increased either with lipopolysaccharide (LPS) stimulation or transgenic neuronal over-expression of COX-2. Conversely, DSI was potentiated when COX-2 activity was pharmacologically or genetically inhibited. Interestingly, COX-2 oxidative metabolites of eCBs elevated LTP, an effect opposite to that of their parent molecules 2-arachidonoylglycerol (2-AG) and arachidonoyl ethanolamide (AEA). In addition, the ERK/MAPK and IP(3) pathways were found to mediate PGE(2)-G-induced enhancement of LTP. Our results indicate that COX-2 oxidative metabolism of eCBs is an important signaling pathway in modulation of synaptic transmission and plasticity.
Over 200 mutations in the gene encoding methyl-CpG-binding protein 2 (MeCP2) are known to cause Rett syndrome (RTT), a multiphasic neurodevelopmental disorder that results in motor and cognitive impairments; however, little is known about the neurobiology of RTT. Here, we employ the MeCP2(308/y) mouse model of RTT to investigate the course of the neuronal defects imparted by MeCP2 mutation. Using the olfactory system as a neurodevelopmental model, we describe an acute but transient defect in olfactory sensory neuron maturation during synaptogenesis and elaboration of the glomerular neuropil. This defect is overcome through compensatory responses that restore homeostasis. However, a chronic problem in glomerular organization emerges, which eventually leads to increased neuronal apoptosis. This multiphasic course comprising acute developmental and chronic defects in synaptogenesis and maintenance may represent the neurobiological correlates of clinical RTT, and suggests that different therapeutic strategies may be appropriate at different clinical stages of this disease.
The mammalian central nervous system (CNS) represents a highly complex unit, the correct function of which relies on the appropriate differentiation and survival of its neurones. It is becoming apparent that the Rho family of small GTPases and their downstream targets have a major function in regulating CNS development. Among the effectors, the role of the Pak family of kinases, especially Pak1, is becoming increasingly evident. Although highest levels of Pak1 expression and activation are detected in the developing nervous system, much remains undiscovered concerning its function in neurones. This review summarises what is currently known regarding the biological and molecular role of Pak1 in the mammalian forebrain. It emphasises the importance of Pak1 in regulating neuronal polarity, morphology, migration and synaptic function. Consequently, there are also strong indications that Pak1 is required for normal cognitive function. Furthermore, loss of Pak1 has been associated with the progression of neurodegenerative disorders, particularly Alzheimer's disease, while up-regulation and de-regulation may be responsible for oncogenic transformation of support cells within the CNS, especially astrocyte progenitors. Together, these new and exciting findings encourage the future exploration into the function of Pak1 in the nervous system, thus, paving the way for novel strategies towards improved diagnosis and therapeutic treatment of diseases that affect the CNS.
Therapeutic approaches for Alzheimer's disease (AD) are guided by four disease characteristics: amyloid plaques, neurofibrillar tangles (NFT), neurodegeneration, and dementia. Amyloid plaques are composed largely of 4 kDa beta-amyloid (Abeta) peptides, with the more amyloidogenic, 42 amino acid form (Abeta42) as the primary species. Because multiple, rare mutations that cause early-onset, familial AD lead to increased production or aggregation of Abeta42, amyloid therapeutics aim to reduce the amount of toxic Abeta42 aggregates. Amyloid-based therapies include gamma-secretase inhibitors and modulators, BACE inhibitors, aggregation blockers, catabolism inducers, and anti-Abeta biologics. Tangles are composed of paired helical filaments of hyperphosphorylated tau protein. Tau-based therapeutics include kinase inhibitors, microtubule stabilizers, and catabolism inducers. Therapeutic strategies for neurodegeneration target multiple mechanisms, including excitotoxicity, mitochondrial dysfunction, oxidative damage, and inflammation or stimulation of neuronal viability. Although not disease modifying, cognition enhancers are important to treat the symptom of dementia. Strategies for cognition enhancement include cholinesterase inhibitors, and other approaches to enhance the signaling of cholinergic and glutamatergic neurons. In summary, plaques, tangles, neurodegeneration and dementia guide the development of multiple therapeutic approaches for AD and are the subject of this review.
Recent advances in pain research provide a clear picture for the molecular mechanisms of acute pain; substantial information concerning plasticity that occurs during neuropathic pain has also become available. The peripheral mechanisms responsible for neuropathic pain are found in the altered gene/protein expression of primary sensory neurons. With damage to peripheral sensory fibers, a variety of changes in pain-related gene expression take place in dorsal root ganglion neurons. These changes, or plasticity, might underlie unique neuropathic pain-specific phenotype modifications - decreased unmyelinated-fiber functions, but increased myelinated A-fiber functions. Another characteristic change is observed in allodynia, the functional change of tactile to nociceptive perception. Throughout a series of studies, using novel nociceptive tests to characterize sensory-fiber or pain modality-specific nociceptive behaviors, it was demonstrated that communication between innocuous and noxious sensory fibers might play a role in allodynia mechanisms. Because neuropathic pain in peripheral and central demyelinating diseases develops as a result of aberrant myelination in experimental animals, demyelination seems to be a key mechanism of plasticity in neuropathic pain. More recently, we discovered that lysophosphatidic acid receptor activation initiates neuropathic pain, as well as possible peripheral mechanism of demyelination after nerve injury. These results lead to further hypotheses of physical communication between innocuous Abeta- and noxious C- or Adelta-fibers to influence the molecular mechanisms of allodynia.
Accumulation of misfolded proteins and protein assemblies is associated with neuronal dysfunction and death in several neurodegenerative diseases such as Alzheimer's, Parkinson's, and Huntington's disease (HD). It is therefore critical to understand the molecular mechanisms of drugs that act on pathways that modulate misfolding and/or aggregation. It is noteworthy that the mammalian target of rapamycin inhibitor rapamycin or its analogs have been proposed as promising therapeutic compounds clearing toxic protein assemblies in these diseases via activation of autophagy. However, using a cellular model of HD, we found that rapamycin significantly decreased aggregation-prone polyglutamine (polyQ) and expanded huntingtin and its inclusion bodies (IB) in both autophagy-proficient and autophagy-deficient cells (by genetic knockout of the atg5 gene in mouse embryonic fibroblasts). This result suggests that rapamycin modulates the levels of misfolded polyQ proteins via pathways other than autophagy. We show that rapamycin reduces the amount of soluble polyQ protein via a modest inhibition of protein synthesis that in turn significantly reduces the formation of insoluble polyQ protein and IB formation. Hence, a modest reduction in huntingtin synthesis by rapamycin may lead to a substantial decrease in the probability of reaching the critical concentration required for a nucleation event and subsequent toxic polyQ aggregation. Thus, in addition to its beneficial effect proposed previously of reducing polyQ aggregation/toxicity via autophagic pathways, rapamycin may alleviate polyQ disease pathology via its effect on global protein synthesis. This finding may have important therapeutic implications.
In the mammalian cortex, alpha2 subunit-containing glycine receptors (GlyRs) mediate tonic inhibition, but the precise functional role of this type of GlyRs is difficult to establish because of the lack of subtype-selective antagonist. In this study, we found that cyclothiazide (CTZ), an epileptogenic agent, potently inhibited GlyR-mediated current (I(Gly)) in cultured rat hippocampal neurons. The inhibition was glycine concentration-dependent, suggesting a competitive mechanism. Note that GlyRs containing the alpha2 but not alpha1 or alpha3 subunits, when being heterologously expressed in human embryonic kidney 293T cells, were inhibited by CTZ, indicating subunit specificity of CTZ action. In addition, the degree of CTZ inhibition on I(Gly) in rat spinal neurons declined with time in culture, in parallel with a decline of alpha2 subunit expression, which is known to occur during spinal cord development. Furthermore, site-directed mutagenesis indicates that a single-amino acid threonine at position 59 near the N terminus of the alpha2 subunit confers the specificity of CTZ action. Thus, CTZ is a potent and selective inhibitor of alpha2-GlyRs, and threonine at position 59 plays a critical role in the susceptibility of GlyR to CTZ inhibition.
The human genome project has stimulated development of impressive repositories of biological knowledge at the genomic level and new knowledge bases are rapidly being developed in a 'bottom-up' fashion. In contrast, higher-level phenomics knowledge bases are underdeveloped, particularly with respect to the complex neuropsychiatric syndrome, symptom, cognitive, and neural systems phenotypes widely acknowledged as critical to advance molecular psychiatry research. This gap limits informatics strategies that could improve both the mining and representation of relevant knowledge, and help prioritize phenotypes for new research. Most existing structured knowledge bases also engage a limited set of contributors, and thus fail to leverage recent developments in social collaborative knowledge-building. We developed a collaborative annotation database to enable representation and sharing of empirical information about phenotypes important to neuropsychiatric research (www.Phenowiki.org). As a proof of concept, we focused on findings relevant to 'cognitive control', a neurocognitive construct considered important to multiple neuropsychiatric syndromes. Currently this knowledge base tabulates empirical findings about heritabilities and measurement properties of specific cognitive task and rating scale indicators (n=449 observations). It is hoped that this new open resource can serve as a starting point that enables broadly collaborative knowledge-building, and help investigators select and prioritize endophenotypes for translational research.

In MS subjects with no clinical disability, we assessed sensorimotor organization and their ability to adapt to an unfamiliar dynamical environment. Eleven MS subjects performed reaching movements while a robot generated a speed-dependent force field. Control and adaptation performance were compared with that of an equal number of control subjects. During a familiarization phase, when the robot generated no forces, the movements of MS subjects were more curved, displayed greater and more variable directional errors and a longer deceleration phase. During the force field phase, both MS and control subjects gradually learned to predict the robot-generated forces. The rates of adaptation were similar, but MS subjects showed a greater variability in responding to the force field. These results suggest that MS subjects have a preserved capability of learning to predict the effects of the forces, but make greater errors when actually using such predictions to generate movements. Inaccurate motor commands are then compensated later in the movement through an extra amount of sensory-based corrections. This indicates that early in the disease MS subjects have intact adaptive capabilities, but impaired movement execution.
It has been proposed that pulse-widths of 0.5-1.0 ms should be used to evoke H-reflexes in humans; however, the influence of pulse-width on H-reflex recruitment over a range of stimulus intensities has not been well characterized. We constructed soleus H-reflex vs. M-wave recruitment curves using 50, 200, 500, and 1000 micros pulses in 12 subjects. In contrast to previous findings, changing the pulse-width did not significantly alter maximal H-reflex (H(max)) or M-wave (M(max)) amplitudes or H(max)/M(max) ratios. In fact, the 1000 micros pulses resulted in larger H-reflexes when the M-wave was 5% M(max); smaller M-waves at H(max); and lower H-reflex thresholds compared with 50 micros pulses. These differences reflect a leftward shift in the H-reflex vs. M-wave recruitment curve when using wide vs. narrow pulses and, combined with no change in the H(max)/M(max) ratios, suggest that factors other than antidromic collision in motor axons limit H(max). These results support the idea that 1,000 micros pulses should be used to evoke H-reflexes and suggest that wider pulses may be beneficial to generate contractions with a greater reflex contribution when using neuromuscular stimulation for rehabilitation.
Epilepsy, also known as seizure disorder, encompasses several different modes of presentation. Patients of all ages, from early childhood to the elderly, who present for dental care may be taking anticonvulsants or may have an unanticipated seizure in the dental office. Dentists should be familiar with the varied manifestations of seizures, the medications used in their treatment and management of a seizure in the dental office. It is estimated that 1% of the population of the United States are afflicted with epilepsy. There is indication that the elderly are becoming included in that number because of their affliction with cardiovascular disorders. The word &quot;epilepsy&quot; raises anxiety in many people because they fear that such an event is life threatening. However, the term epilepsy applies primarily to prolonged or repetitive seizures requiring intervention by trained individuals.
A two-day symposium on chemical neurobiology revealed an open frontier for researchers at the interface of chemistry and neuroscience.


Intrinsic antioxidant defenses are important for neuronal longevity. We found that in rat neurons, synaptic activity, acting via NMDA receptor (NMDAR) signaling, boosted antioxidant defenses by making changes to the thioredoxin-peroxiredoxin (Prx) system. Synaptic activity enhanced thioredoxin activity, facilitated the reduction of overoxidized Prxs and promoted resistance to oxidative stress. Resistance was mediated by coordinated transcriptional changes; synaptic NMDAR activity inactivated a previously unknown Forkhead box O target gene, the thioredoxin inhibitor Txnip. Conversely, NMDAR blockade upregulated Txnip in vivo and in vitro, where it bound thioredoxin and promoted vulnerability to oxidative damage. Synaptic activity also upregulated the Prx reactivating genes Sesn2 (sestrin 2) and Srxn1 (sulfiredoxin), via C/EBPbeta and AP-1, respectively. Mimicking these expression changes was sufficient to strengthen antioxidant defenses. Trans-synaptic stimulation of synaptic NMDARs was crucial for boosting antioxidant defenses; chronic bath activation of all (synaptic and extrasynaptic) NMDARs induced no antioxidative effects. Thus, synaptic NMDAR activity may influence the progression of pathological processes associated with oxidative damage.
Much of the information processing in the brain occurs at the level of local circuits; however, the mechanisms underlying their initial development are poorly understood. We sought to examine the early development and plasticity of local excitatory circuits in the optic tectum of Xenopus laevis tadpoles. We found that retinal input recruits persistent, recurrent intratectal synaptic excitation that becomes more temporally compact and less variable over development, thus increasing the temporal coherence and precision of tectal cell spiking. We also saw that patterned retinal input can sculpt recurrent activity according to a spike timing-dependent plasticity rule, and that impairing this plasticity during development results in abnormal refinement of the temporal characteristics of recurrent circuits. This plasticity is a previously unknown mechanism by which patterned retinal activity allows intratectal circuitry to self-organize, optimizing the temporal response properties of the tectal network, and provides a substrate for rapid modulation of tectal neuron receptive-field properties.
This study aimed to identify neural mechanisms that underlie perceptual learning in a visual-discrimination task. We trained two monkeys (Macaca mulatta) to determine the direction of visual motion while we recorded from their middle temporal area (MT), which in trained monkeys represents motion information that is used to solve the task, and lateral intraparietal area (LIP), which represents the transformation of motion information into a saccadic choice. During training, improved behavioral sensitivity to weak motion signals was accompanied by changes in motion-driven responses of neurons in LIP, but not in MT. The time course and magnitude of the changes in LIP correlated with the changes in behavioral sensitivity throughout training. Thus, for this task, perceptual learning does not appear to involve improvements in how sensory information is represented in the brain, but rather how the sensory representation is interpreted to form the decision that guides behavior.
Changes in visual cortical responses that are induced by monocular visual deprivation are a widely studied example of competitive, experience-dependent neural plasticity. It has been thought that the deprived-eye pathway will fail to compete against the open-eye pathway for limited amounts of brain-derived neurotrophic factor, which acts on TrkB and is needed to sustain effective synaptic connections. We tested this model by using a chemical-genetic approach in mice to inhibit TrkB kinase activity rapidly and specifically during the induction of cortical plasticity in vivo. Contrary to the model, TrkB kinase activity was not required for any of the effects of monocular deprivation. When the deprived eye was re-opened during the critical period, cortical responses to it recovered. This recovery was blocked by TrkB inhibition. These findings suggest a more conventional trophic role for TrkB signaling in the enhancement of responses or growth of new connections, rather than a role in competition.
G protein-coupled receptors (GPCRs) are the largest family of membrane-bound receptors and also the targets of many drugs. Understanding of the functional significance of the wide structural diversity of GPCRs has been aided considerably in recent years by the sequencing of the human genome and by structural studies, and has important implications for the future therapeutic potential of targeting this receptor family. This article aims to provide a comprehensive overview of the five main human GPCR families--Rhodopsin, Secretin, Adhesion, Glutamate and Frizzled/Taste2--with a focus on gene repertoire, general ligand preference, common and unique structural features, and the potential for future drug discovery.
Ion channels represent highly attractive targets for drug discovery and are implicated in a diverse range of disorders, in particular in the central nervous and cardiovascular systems. Moreover, assessment of cardiac ion-channel activity of new chemical entities is now an integral component of drug discovery programmes to assess potential for cardiovascular side effects. Despite their attractiveness as drug discovery targets ion channels remain an under-exploited target class, which is in large part due to the labour-intensive and low-throughput nature of patch-clamp electrophysiology. This Review provides an update on the current state-of-the-art for the various automated electrophysiology platforms that are now available and critically evaluates their impact in terms of ion-channel screening, lead optimization and the assessment of cardiac ion-channel safety liability.
Pain and pleasure are powerful motivators of behaviour and have historically been considered opposites. Emerging evidence from the pain and reward research fields points to extensive similarities in the anatomical substrates of painful and pleasant sensations. Recent molecular-imaging and animal studies have demonstrated the important role of the opioid and dopamine systems in modulating both pain and pleasure. Understanding the mutually inhibitory effects that pain and reward processing have on each other, and the neural mechanisms that underpin such modulation, is important for alleviating unnecessary suffering and improving well-being.
The term 'social brain' refers to the network of brain regions that are involved in understanding others. Behaviour that is related to social cognition changes dramatically during human adolescence. This is paralleled by functional changes that occur in the social brain during this time, in particular in the medial prefrontal cortex and the superior temporal sulcus, which show altered activity during the performance of social cognitive tasks, such as face recognition and mental-state attribution. Research also indicates that, in humans, these parts of the social brain undergo structural development, including synaptic reorganization, during adolescence. Bringing together two relatively new and rapidly expanding areas of neuroscience--social neuroscience and the study of brain development during adolescence--will increase our understanding of how the social brain develops during adolescence.
A striking way in which humans differ from non-human primates is in their ability to represent numerical quantity using abstract symbols and to use these 'mental tools' to perform skills such as exact calculations. How do functional brain circuits for the symbolic representation of numerical magnitude emerge? Do neural representations of numerical magnitude change as a function of development and the learning of mental arithmetic? Current theories suggest that cultural number symbols acquire their meaning by being mapped onto non-symbolic representations of numerical magnitude. This Review provides an evaluation of this contention and proposes hypotheses to guide investigations into the neural mechanisms that constrain the acquisition of cultural representations of numerical magnitude.
The conformational changes underlying cysteine-loop receptor channel gating remain elusive and controversial. We previously developed a single-channel electrophysiological method that allows structural inferences about the transient open-channel conformation to be made from the effect and properties of introduced charges on systematically engineered ionizable amino acids. Here we have applied this methodology to the entire M1 and M3 segments of the muscle nicotinic acetylcholine receptor, two transmembrane alpha-helices that pack against the pore-lining M2 alpha-helix. Together with our previous results on M2, these data suggest that the pore dilation that underlies channel opening involves only a subtle rearrangement of these three transmembrane helices. Such a limited conformational change seems optimal to allow rapid closed-open interconversion rates, and hence a fast postsynaptic response upon neurotransmitter binding. Thus, this receptor-channel seems to have evolved to take full advantage of the steep dependence of ion- and water-conduction rates on pore diameter that is characteristic of model hydrophobic nanopores.
Understanding the guiding principles of sensory coding strategies is a main goal in computational neuroscience. Among others, the principles of predictive coding and slowness appear to capture aspects of sensory processing. Predictive coding postulates that sensory systems are adapted to the structure of their input signals such that information about future inputs is encoded. Slow feature analysis (SFA) is a method for extracting slowly varying components from quickly varying input signals, thereby learning temporally invariant features. Here, we use the information bottleneck method to state an information-theoretic objective function for temporally local predictive coding. We then show that the linear case of SFA can be interpreted as a variant of predictive coding that maximizes the mutual information between the current output of the system and the input signal in the next time step. This demonstrates that the slowness principle and predictive coding are intimately related.
CNS repair by cell transplantation requires new neurons to integrate into complex recipient networks. We assessed how the migratory route of transplanted granule neurons and the developmental stage of the host rat cerebellum influence engraftment. In both embryonic and postnatal hosts, granule cells can enter the cerebellar cortex and achieve correct placement along their natural migratory pathway. Donor neurons can also reach the internal granular layer from the white matter and integrate following an unusual developmental pattern. Although the frequency of correct positioning declines in parallel with cortical development, in mature recipients correct homing is more frequent through the unusual path. Following depletion of granule cell precursors in the host, more granule neurons engraft, but their ability for achieving correct placement is unchanged. Therefore, while the cerebellar environment remains receptive for granule cells even after the end of development, their full integration is partially hindered by the mature cortical architecture.
Experimental antiphospholipid syndrome (eAPS) induced by immunization with beta(2)-glycoprotein I (beta(2)-GPI) causes behavioral hyperactivity. We assessed the role of thrombotic and inflammatory perivascular factors and standard APS therapies for CNS manifestations. Groups of mice (n=10 per group) were immunized once with beta(2)-GPI (eAPS) or adjuvant (controls) and treated daily from 1 month after immunization with either sham injections, aspirin (1.2 mg/kg) or enoxaparin (1 mg/kg) for 3 months. Serum antiphospholipid antibodies (aPL) and brain levels of tissue necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha) and prostaglandin E (PGE) were then measured by ELISA and thrombin inhibitors by immunoblot. Behavioral hyperactivity was assessed by the staircase test. The eAPS mice had higher levels of aPL than adjuvant immunized controls. Inflammatory markers were found to be twofold higher and intrinsic brain thrombin inhibitors 50% lower in eAPS brains compared to controls. aPL titers were unaffected by treatment. Both aspirin and enoxaparin normalized brain concentrations of PGE and TNF-alpha and elevated thrombin inhibitors, the latter effect being more pronounced for enoxaparin. The increased activity and rearing exploratory behavior in eAPS (138.6+/-13.6 and 141.9+/-13.9% of controls, respectively) were attenuated significantly more by treatment with enoxaparin (91.5+/-12.3 and 95.0+/-9.8%) than by aspirin (167.0+/-18.4 and 114.7+/-13.1%, p&lt;0.01, ANOVA). Together, these results demonstrate that eAPS is associated with significant brain inflammation and thrombosis that are well treated with both standard therapies for human APS. Enoxaparin attenuates behavior better than aspirin possibly by reducing thrombosis or stabilization of the blood brain barrier, suggesting an advantage for similar drugs in CNS APS.
Identification of cellular targets pertinent for the development of effective therapies against pathological pain constitutes a difficult challenge. We combined several approaches to show that 3alpha-hydroxysteroid oxido-reductase (3alpha-HSOR), abundantly expressed in the spinal cord (SC), is a key target, the modulation of which markedly affects nociception. 3alpha-HSOR catalyzes the biosynthesis and oxidation of 3alpha,5alpha-reduced neurosteroids as allopregnanolone (3alpha,5alpha-THP), which stimulates GABA(A) receptors. Intrathecal injection of Provera (pharmacological inhibitor of 3alpha-HSOR activity) in naive rat SC decreased thermal and mechanical nociceptive thresholds assessed with behavioral methods. In contrast, pain thresholds were dose-dependently increased by 3alpha,5alpha-THP. In animals subjected to sciatic nerve injury-evoked neuropathic pain, molecular and biochemical experiments revealed an up-regulation of 3alpha-HSOR reductive activity in the SC. Enhancement of 3alpha,5alpha-THP concentration in the SC induced analgesia in neuropathic rats while Provera exacerbated their pathological state. Possibilities are opened for chronic pain control with drugs modulating 3alpha-HSOR activity in nerve cells.
Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is a fatal neuromuscular disorder, characterised by progressive motor neuron degeneration and muscle paralysis. Heat shock proteins (HSPs) have significant cytoprotective properties in several models of neurodegeneration. To investigate the therapeutic potential of heat shock protein 27 (HSP27) in a mouse model of ALS, we conducted an extensive characterisation of transgenic mice generated from a cross between HSP27 overexpressing mice and mice expressing mutant superoxide dismutase (SOD1(G93A)). We report that SOD1(G93A)/HSP27 double transgenic mice showed delayed decline in motor strength, a significant improvement in the number of functional motor units and increased survival of spinal motor neurons compared to SOD1(G93A) single transgenics during the early phase of disease. However, there was no evidence of sustained neuroprotection affecting long-term survival. Marked down-regulation of HSP27 protein occurred during disease progression that was not associated with a reduction in HSP27 mRNA, indicating a translational dysfunction due to the presence of mutant SOD1 protein. This study provides further support for the therapeutic potential of HSPs in ALS and other motor neuron disorders.

Measuring compliance allows differentiation of sensory changes from changes in thresholds because of altered compliance. As compliance of the colorectum is sigmoidal, a power exponential analysis was recommended. We aimed to develop and validate simpler measurements of compliance. Forty subjects (23 female, 17 male) underwent colonic barostat procedures comparing dronabinol vs placebo. Results of the effects on compliance were reported elsewhere. Compliance was determined as volume response to pressures ranging from 0 to 36 mmHg. Pressures corresponding to 10%, 50% and 90% (Pr10, Pr50 and Pr90) of maximum volume at 36 mmHg were estimated using a power exponential model, computer-based and manual linear interpolation. Data were compared and concordance evaluated. Pr50 and Pr90 were not significantly different by all methods for baseline and post-treatment. Respectively, concordance correlation coefficients were: pretreatment, 0.879, 0.464 and post-treatment, 0.879, 0.623. There is larger variation in Pr10 comparing all methods and manual calculations allow for the closest fit to the data. Concordance correlation coefficients were pretreatment = 0.189 and post-treatment = 0.322. There were no gender differences in compliance measurements. Results of compliance are highly concordant amongst all models. However, computer-based or manual interpolations appear superior to power exponential models for estimating Pr10.
Successful memory retrieval has been associated with a neural circuit that involves prefrontal, precuneus, and posterior parietal regions. Specifically, these regions are active during recognition memory tests when items correctly identified as &quot;old&quot; are compared with items correctly identified as &quot;new.&quot; Yet, as nearly all previous fMRI studies have used visual stimuli, it is unclear whether activations in posterior regions are specifically associated with memory retrieval or if they reflect visuospatial processing. We focus on the status of parietal activations during recognition performance by testing memory for abstract and concrete nouns presented in the auditory modality with eyes closed. Successful retrieval of both concrete and abstract words was associated with increased activation in left inferior parietal regions (BA 40), similar to those observed with visual stimuli. These results demonstrate that activations in the posterior parietal cortex during retrieval cannot be attributed to bottom-up visuospatial processes but instead have a more direct relationship to memory retrieval processes.
Dichotic listening (DL) is one of the most frequently used paradigms to study hemispheric asymmetry and has been employed in several neuroimaging studies. The classic behavioral DL paradigm requires the subject to give a verbal response on each trial, which may cause image artifacts due to head movements when applied to an imaging environment. In order to avoid such artifacts most studies have used modified versions of the classic DL paradigm, where no verbal response is required. The purpose of the present study was to test a new DL paradigm, specifically developed for the fMRI environment, which is based on collecting verbal responses and thus being as close as possible to the classic DL behavioral task. By employing a sparse-sampling EPI acquisition schema we attempted to limit the negative impact of overt speech on image quality. A 5-s 'silent gap' allowed for stimulus presentation and collection of a verbal response to occur between subsequent image acquisitions and served as a high-pass filter that was optimized to detect activations of interest. Hence, the contribution of response-related activations to the measured signal was reduced. Twelve healthy volunteers (six males and six females) participated in the study. In order to obtain a measure of reliability, all participants went through the classic DL paradigm three times. The results, based on the estimation of the intraclass correlation coefficient, functional probability maps as well as on laterality maps, showed consistent activation in the right and left superior temporal gyrus, left middle temporal gyrus, and right inferior temporal gyrus, thus replicating previous results with visual display and motor response DL paradigms. It is concluded that an fMRI DL paradigm based on overt verbal responses is feasible and could have general implications for future fMRI studies of speech perception and product in general.
How are stimulus-driven reflexes generated, and what controls their competition with voluntary action? The saccadic reflex to look towards an abrupt visual onset (prosaccade) has been associated with the retinotectal and magnocellular pathways, which rapidly convey signals to the superior colliculus and cortical eye fields. Such stimulus-driven reflexes need to be suppressed when making an eye movement in the opposite direction (antisaccade), resulting in a cost in saccade latency. We compared the latencies of pro- and anti-saccades elicited by conventional luminance stimuli with those evoked by stimuli visible only to short-wave-sensitive cones (S cones) embedded in dynamic luminance noise. Critically, the retinotectal and magnocellular pathways are functionally blind to such stimuli. Compared to luminance stimuli, antisaccade latency costs were significantly reduced for 'S-cone' stimuli. This behavioural interaction is consistent with reduced competition between reflexive and endogenous saccade plans when S-cone stimuli are employed, while other processes involved in making an antisaccade, such as changing preparatory set or generating an endogenous saccade, are predicted to be equivalent for each kind of stimulus. Using fMRI, we found that activity in the right intraparietal sulcus (IPS) mirrored the behavioural interaction in saccade latencies. Thus, the right IPS appears to index the degree of competition between exogenous and endogenous saccade plans, showing the activity pattern predicted for an area involved in suppressing the saccade reflex. Furthermore, signals recorded from the superior colliculus showed the reverse pattern of responses, consistent with a direct inhibitory influence of IPS on SC.
Simultaneous recording of brain activity by different neurophysiological modalities can yield insights that reach beyond those obtained by each technique individually, even when compared to those from the post-hoc integration of results from each technique recorded sequentially. Success in the endeavour of real-time multimodal experiments requires special hardware and software as well as purpose-tailored experimental design and analysis strategies. Here, we review the key methodological issues in recording electrophysiological data in humans simultaneously with magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), focusing on recent technical and analytical advances in the field. Examples are derived from simultaneous electroencephalography (EEG) and electromyography (EMG) during functional MRI in cognitive and systems neuroscience as well as in clinical neurology, in particular in epilepsy and movement disorders. We conclude with an outlook on current and future efforts to achieve true integration of electrical and haemodynamic measures of neuronal activity using data fusion models.
Imaging genetics provides an enormous amount of functional-structural data on gene effects in living brain, but the sheer quantity of potential phenotypes raises concerns about false discovery. Here, we provide the first empirical results on false positive rates in imaging genetics. We analyzed 720 frequent coding SNPs without significant association with schizophrenia and a subset of 492 of these without association with cognitive function. Effects on brain structure (using voxel-based morphometry, VBM) and brain function, using two archival imaging tasks, the n-back working memory task and an emotional face matching task, were studied in whole brain and regions of interest and corrected for multiple comparisons using standard neuroimaging procedures. Since these variants are unlikely to impact relevant brain function, positives obtained provide an upper empirical estimate of the false positive association rate. In a separate analysis, we randomly permuted genotype labels across subjects, removing any true genotype-phenotype association in the data, to derive a lower empirical estimate. At a set correction level of 0.05, in each region of interest and data set used, the rate of positive findings was well below 5% (0.2-4.1%). There was no relationship between the region of interest and the false positive rate. Permutation results were in the same range as empirically derived rates. The observed low rates of positives provide empirical evidence that the type I error rate is well controlled by current commonly used correction procedures in imaging genetics, at least in the context of the imaging paradigms we have used. In fact, our observations indicate that these statistical thresholds are conservative.
Spatial point analysis is an analytical approach towards understanding patterns in the distribution of single points, such as synapses. To aid in this type of analysis of neuronal structures, a freeware tool, called PAJ, has been developed. This Java-based tool takes 3D Cartesian coordinates as input and performs a range of analyses to test for underlying patterns. In addition, Monte Carlo analysis is performed to compare experimental input with randomized input. This tool should be especially useful in determining whether neuronal structures are spatially patterned such that individual units interact with each other.
The freeware Java tool Point Analysis in Java (PAJ), created to perform 3D point analysis, was tested in an independent laboratory setting. The input data consisted of images of the hippocampal perforant pathway from serial immunocytochemical localizations of the rat brain in multiple views at different resolutions. The low magnification set (x2 objective) comprised the entire perforant pathway, while the high magnification set (x100 objective) allowed the identification of individual fibers. A preliminary stereological study revealed a striking linear relationship between the fiber count at high magnification and the optical density at low magnification. PAJ enabled fast analysis for down-sampled data sets and a friendly interface with automated plot drawings. Noted strengths included the multi-platform support as well as the free availability of the source code, conducive to a broad user base and maximum flexibility for ad hoc requirements. PAJ has great potential to extend its usability by (a) improving its graphical user interface, (b) increasing its input size limit, (c) improving response time for large data sets, and (d) potentially being integrated with other Java graphical tools such as ImageJ.
Computational neuroscience is a subfield of neuroscience that develops models to integrate complex experimental data in order to understand brain function. To constrain and test computational models, researchers need access to a wide variety of experimental data. Much of those data are not readily accessible because neuroscientists fall into separate communities that study the brain at different levels and have not been motivated to provide data to researchers outside their community. To foster sharing of neuroscience data, a workshop was held in 2007, bringing together experimental and theoretical neuroscientists, computer scientists, legal experts and governmental observers. Computational neuroscience was recommended as an ideal field for focusing data sharing, and specific methods, strategies and policies were suggested for achieving it. A new funding area in the NSF/NIH Collaborative Research in Computational Neuroscience (CRCNS) program has been established to support data sharing, guided in part by the workshop recommendations. The new funding area is dedicated to the dissemination of high quality data sets with maximum scientific value for computational neuroscience. The first round of the CRCNS data sharing program supports the preparation of data sets which will be publicly available in 2008. These include electrophysiology and behavioral (eye movement) data described towards the end of this article.


Persistent idiopathic facial pain, once called atypical facial pain, rarely anticipates the detection of a lung carcinoma. Thirty-six cases of intractable facial pain secondary to lung neoplasm are described in the literature. The onset of facial pain usually precedes the onset of symptoms and signs due to lung cancer by several months and therefore it should be considered, when present, as a possible marker for an early diagnosis of tumour. We report a case of intractable facial pain associated with metastatic lung cancer in a non-smoker.
Basilar-type migraine (BM) and hemiplegic migraine are clinically distinct subtypes of migraine with aura, however they do share clinical features and it is possible they may share genetic bases. In recent years, ATP1A2 and other gene mutations have been discovered in familial and sporadic hemiplegic migraine. More recently, an ATP1A2 mutation has been identified in an Italian family with BM. In this study we document the absence of ATP1A2 mutations in two Italian sisters with menstrual BM, suggesting that other genes are involved in the condition.

A nationwide survey has been undertaken to evaluate the resources and the activities of Italian hospital neurology units (NU) in the emergency setting. NU are widely disseminated throughout the entire country and 220 (84%) are located in hospitals with an emergency room (ER). Complete data about hospital setting, structural and functional characteristics of each NU and clinical activities were obtained from 159 (72.3%). Each NU has, on average, 25 beds (7% bedside monitoring), 7 neurologists and 17 nurses. A neuroscience department is present in 25% of the hospitals. The ER is the source of 71% of the 148,040 annual admissions and of 57% of the 577,279 annual neurological consultations. Stroke is the most common cause of admission (29%), followed by epilepsy/headache and transient ischaemic attacks. Head trauma prevails in hospitals with no neurosurgical units. Cerebrovascular disorders are the main cause of neurological consultations (28%), followed by headache (22%), dizziness (13%), head trauma (13%), impairment of consciousness (12%) and epilepsy (9%). Only 36% of NU have a 24-h/day, 7 days/week on-duty neurologist and 28% have a stroke unit. The burden of neurological activities is unrelated to the geographical area and hospital's complexity (size, structural and functional context, ER organisation, presence of stroke units, neurosurgery units or 24/7 neurological service).

Striatal hand is a deformity encountered in Parkinson's disease and other parkinsonisms. It is characterized by extension that occurs at all the interphalangeal joints, flexion at the metacarpophalangeal joints, and ulnar deviation. It can be differentiated from levodopa-induced dystonia and primary dystonia, since the deformity exists continuously even during sleep. We experienced a case of Parkinson's disease with severe striatal hand deformity which was successfully treated by deep brain stimulation of the subthalamic nucleus (STN-DBS). Although the precise mechanism remains unclear, rigidity is assumed to contribute to the limb deformities. Based on our experience, it seems possible therefore that the effect of STN-DBS on the hand deformity was a secondary effect on muscular rigidity. STN-DBS is assumed to represent a useful treatment option for striatal hand deformity.
Elimination of interstitial fluid and solutes plays a role in homeostasis in the brain, but the pathways are unclear. Previous work suggests that interstitial fluid drains along the walls of arteries. Aims: to define the pathways within the walls of capillaries and arteries for drainage of fluid and solutes out of the brain. Methods: Fluorescent soluble tracers, dextran (3 kDa) and ovalbumin (40 kDa), and particulate fluospheres (0.02 microm and 1.0 microm in diameter) were injected into the corpus striatum of mice. Brains were examined from 5 min to 7 days by immunocytochemistry and confocal microscopy. Results: soluble tracers initially spread diffusely through brain parenchyma and then drain out of the brain along basement membranes of capillaries and arteries. Some tracer is takenf up by vascular smooth muscle cells and by perivascular macrophages. No perivascular drainage was observed when dextran was injected into mouse brains following cardiac arrest. Fluospheres expand perivascular spaces between vessel walls and surrounding brain, are ingested by perivascular macrophages but do not appear to leave the brain even following an inflammatory challenge with lipopolysaccharide or kainate. Conclusions: capillary and artery basement membranes act as 'lymphatics of the brain' for drainage of fluid and solutes; such drainage appears to require continued cardiac output as it ceases following cardiac arrest. This drainage pathway does not permit migration of cells from brain parenchyma to the periphery. Amyloid-beta is deposited in basement membrane drainage pathways in cerebral amyloid angiopathy, and may impede elimination of amyloid-beta and interstitial fluid from the brain in Alzheimer's disease. Soluble antigens, but not cells, drain from the brain by perivascular pathways. This atypical pattern of drainage may contribute to partial immune privilege of the brain and play a role in neuroimmunological diseases such as multiple sclerosis.

Matrix metalloproteinases (MMPs) -2, -3 and -9 are up-regulated in several cell types on exposure to amyloid beta peptide (Abeta) and have Abeta-degrading activity in vitro. The aims of this study were to determine (i) the distribution of MMP-2, -3 and -9 in the cerebral cortex in Alzheimer's disease (AD) and control brains; (ii) whether the levels and activity of these proteases are increased in AD; and (iii) whether their activity is related to Abeta load. In addition, we examined whether promoter polymorphisms in the MMP-3 and -9 genes are associated with AD in the study cohort. Paraffin sections of frontal lobe from AD and control cases were immunostained for MMP-2, -3 and -9 and tissue homogenates used for MMP activity assays. DNA from these cases was genotyped for the MMP-3 5A/6A (-1171) and MMP-9 C-1562T promoter polymorphisms. Immunohistochemistry revealed MMP-3 in plaques and both MMP-3 and -9 around scattered neurones. The levels and activity of all three MMPs were similar in AD and control brains and bore no relationship to Abeta load. Analysis of MMP-3 -1171 5A/6A allele frequencies showed that the 6A allele (with reduced promoter activity) was associated with AD; the MMP-9 C-1562T polymorphism was not. The levels and activities of MMP-2, -3 and -9 are not increased in the frontal cortex in AD and are not related to Abeta load. Our findings suggest that altered expression of these proteases does not make a significant contribution to the accumulation of Abeta in AD.
A number of previous reviews have very eloquently summarized pain models and endpoints in animals. Many of these reviews also discuss how animal models have enhanced our understanding of pain mechanisms and make forward-looking statements as to our proximity to the development of effective mechanism-based treatments. While a number of reports cite failures of animal pain models to predict efficacy in humans, few have actually analyzed where these models have been successful. This review gives a brief overview of those successes, both backward, providing validation of the models, and forward, predicting clinical efficacy. While the largest dataset is presented on treatments for neuropathic pain, this review also discusses acute and inflammatory pain models. Key to prediction of clinical efficacy is a lack of side effects, which may incorrectly suggest efficacy in animals and an understanding of how pharmacokinetic parameters translate from animals to man. As such, this review focuses on a description of the pharmacokinetic-pharmacodynamic relationship for a number of pain treatments that are effective in both animals and humans. Finally we discuss where and why animal pain models have failed and summarize improvements to pain models that should expand and improve their predictive power.
In vitro results show the ability of the CB(1) receptor agonist CP 55,940 to reduce the affinity of D(2) receptor agonist binding sites in both the dorsal and ventral striatum including the nucleus accumbens shell. This antagonistic modulation of D(2) receptor agonist affinity was found to remain and even be enhanced after G-protein activation by Gpp(NH)p. Using the FRET technique in living HEK-293T cells, the formation of CB(1)-D(2) receptor heteromers, independent of receptor occupancy, was demonstrated. These data thereby indicate that the antagonistic intramembrane CB(1)/D(2) receptor-receptor interactions may occur in CB(1)/D(2) formed heteromers. Antagonistic CB(1)/D(2) interactions were also discovered at the behavioral level through an analysis of quinpirole-induced locomotor hyperactivity in rats. The CB(1) receptor agonist CP 55,940 at a dose that did not change basal locomotion was able to block quinpirole-induced increases in locomotor activity. In addition, not only the CB(1) receptor antagonist rimonobant but also the specific A(2A) receptor antagonist MSX-3 blocked the inhibitory effect of CB(1) receptor agonist on D(2)-like receptor agonist-induced hyperlocomotion. Taken together, these results give evidence for the existence of antagonistic CB(1)/D(2) receptor-receptor interactions within CB(1)/D(2) heteromers in which A(2A) receptors may also participate.
The sensory neuron-specific receptor (SNSR) is exclusively distributed in dorsal root ganglion (DRG) cells. We have demonstrated that intrathecal (i.t.) administration of SNSR agonists inhibits formalin-evoked responses and the development of morphine tolerance [Chen, T., Cai, Q., Hong, Y., 2006. Intrathecal sensory neuron-specific receptor agonists bovine adrenal medulla 8-22 and (tyr(6))-gamma2-msh-6-12 inhibit formalin-evoked nociception and neuronal fos-like immunoreactivity in the spinal cord of the rat. Neuroscience 141, 965-975]. The present study was undertaken to examine the possible impact of the activation of SNSR on NMDA receptors. I.t. administration of NMDA (6.8 nmol) induced nociceptive behaviors, including scratching, biting and lifting, followed by thermal hypoalgesia and hyperalgesia. These responses were associated with the expression of Fos-like immunoreactivity (FLI) throughout the spinal dorsal horn with highest effect seen in laminae I-II. I.t. NMDA also induced an increase in nitric oxide synthase (NOS) activity in superficial layers of the dorsal horn, but not around the central canal, as revealed by NADPH diaphorase histochemistry. Pretreatment with the SNSR agonist bovine adrenal medulla 8-22 (3, 10 and 30 nmol) dose-dependently diminished NMDA-evoked nocifensive behaviors and hyperalgesia. This agonist also reduced NMDA-evoked expression of FLI and NADPH reactivity in the spinal dorsal horn. Taken together, these data suggest that the activation of SNSR induces spinal analgesia by suppressing NMDA receptor-mediated activation of spinal dorsal horn neurons and an increase in NOS activity.
Interferon (INF) beta 1a 22 or 44 mug (Rebif((R))) administered s.c. 3 times a week (t.i.w) is a well established immunomodulating treatment for relapsing remitting multiple sclerosis (RRMS). This review focuses on its mechanisms of action, evidence of efficacy, safety, and tolerability. Several pharmacodynamic properties explain the immunomodulatory actions of INF beta 1a 22 or 44 mug s.c. t.i.w. Pivotal trials and post-marketing studies proved that the drug is effective in reducing disease activity and likely in slowing disease progression. Head-to-head comparative studies with other marketed INFs beta in RRMS suggested a better therapeutic response associated with higher doses and frequency of administration of Rebif((R)). Additional evidence indicated a beneficial effect of INF beta 1a in patients with clinically isolated syndromes (CIS) suggestive of MS, as treatment reduced time to conversion to clinically definite (CD) disease. Further, although the drug did not prove to slow time to progression there were benefits on relapse- and MRI-related secondary outcome measures in secondary progressive (SP) MS. Pivotal trials, their cross-over extensions, and post-marketing studies consistently showed that INF beta 1a 22 or 44 mug s.c. t.i.w. is safe and well tolerated, as adverse drug reactions are usually mild and manageable.
Suicidal behavior is a problem with important social repercussions. Some groups of the population show a higher risk of suicide; for example, depression, alcoholism, psychosis or drug abuse frequently precedes suicidal behavior. However, the relationship between metabolic alterations in the brain and premorbid clinical symptoms of suicide remains uncertain. The serotonergic and noradrenergic systems have frequently been, implicated in suicidal behavior and the amount of serotonin in the brain and CSF of suicide victims has been found to be low compared with normal subjects. However, there are contradictory results regarding the role of noradrenergic neurons in the mediation of suicide attempts, possibly reflecting the heterogeneity of conditions that lead to a common outcome. In the present work we focus on the subgroup of suicide victims that share a common diagnosis of major depression. Based on post-mortem studies analyzing mRNA expression by in situ hybridization, serotonergic neurons from the dorsal raphe nucleus (DRN) from depressive suicide victims are seen to over-express cytochrome oxidase mRNA. However, no corresponding changes were found in the expression of tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) mRNA in the noradrenergic neurons of the Locus Coeruleus (LC). These results suggest that, despite of the low levels of serotonin described in suicide victims, the activity of DRN neurons could increase in the suicidally depressed, probably due to the over activation of serotonin re-uptake. No alteration was found in noradrenergic neurons, suggesting that they play no crucial role in the suicidal behavior of depressive patients.

Optic ataxic patients have deficits in the visual control of manual reaching and grasping. It has been established previously that these deficits in target-directed behaviour improve following a delay in response. Recently it has been demonstrated that optic ataxic patients also have deficits in taking potential obstacles into account during reaching. The present study was therefore designed to test whether delay would bring an improvement in this behaviour as well. We present experimental data from a patient with unilateral optic ataxia (M.H.). First we document M.H.'s pointing errors, which show a reliable pattern of impairment when pointing to targets in his right visual field, particularly when using his right hand. We then show that a similar pattern of deficits is observable in his ability to negotiate between non-targets: that is, M.H. selectively fails to take account of obstacles in his right visual field, but only while reaching with his right hand. Finally we demonstrate that this obstacle avoidance deficit disappears following a 5s delay in response: under these conditions M.H. now takes account of both non-target objects with either hand. The results are interpreted within the 'two visual streams' model of cortical visual processing.
Rostral prefrontal cortex (PFC) is known to be involved in source memory, the ability to recollect contextual information about an event. However it is unclear whether subregions of rostral PFC may be differentially engaged during the recollection of different kinds of source detail. We used event related functional MRI to contrast two forms of source recollection: (1) recollection of whether stimuli had previously been perceived or imagined, and (2) recollection of which of two temporally distinct lists those stimuli had been presented in. Lateral regions of rostral PFC were activated in both tasks. However medial regions of rostral PFC were activated only when participants were required to recollect source information for self-generated, &quot;imagined&quot; stimuli, indicating a specific role in self-referential processing. In addition, reduced activity in a region of medial ventro-caudal PFC/basal forebrain was associated with making &quot;imagined-to-perceived&quot; confabulation errors. These results suggest that whilst the processing resources supported by some regions of lateral rostral PFC play a general role in source recollection, those supported by medial rostral PFC structures may be more specialised in their contributions.
In normal observers, visual search is facilitated for targets with salient attributes. We compared how two different types of cue (expression and colour) may influence search for face targets, in healthy subjects (n=27) and right brain-damaged patients with left spatial neglect (n=13). The target faces were defined by their identity (singleton among a crowd of neutral faces) but could either be neutral (like other faces), or have a different emotional expression (fearful or happy), or a different colour (red-tinted). Healthy subjects were the fastest for detecting the colour-cued targets, but also showed a significant facilitation for emotionally cued targets, relative to neutral faces differing from other distracter faces by identity only. Healthy subjects were also faster overall for target faces located on the left, as compared to the right side of the display. In contrast, neglect patients were slower to detect targets on the left (contralesional) relative to the right (ipsilesional) side. However, they showed the same pattern of cueing effects as healthy subjects on both sides of space; while their best performance was also found for faces cued by colour, they showed a significant advantage for faces cued by expression, relative to the neutral condition. These results indicate that despite impaired attention towards the left hemispace, neglect patients may still show an intact influence of both low-level colour cues and emotional expression cues on attention, suggesting that neural mechanisms responsible for these effects are partly separate from fronto-parietal brain systems controlling spatial attention during search.
Increased variability in reaction time (RT) has been proposed as a cardinal feature of attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD). Increased variability during sustained attention tasks may reflect inefficient fronto-striatal and fronto-parietal circuitry; activity within these circuits is modulated by the catecholamines. A disruption to dopamine signaling is suggested in ADHD that may be ameliorated by methylphenidate (MPH). This study investigated the effects of MPH administration on the variability in RT and error performance on a sustained attention task of a group of 31 medication nave children with ADHD, compared with 22 non-ADHD, non-medicated, control children. All children performed the fixed-sequence sustained attention to response task (SART) at two time-points: at baseline and after six weeks. The children with ADHD were tested when medication naive at baseline and after six weeks of treatment with MPH and whilst on medication. The medication nave children with ADHD performed the SART with greater errors of commission and omission when compared with the control group. They demonstrated greater standard deviation of RT and fast moment-to-moment variability. They did not differ significantly from the control group in terms of slow variability in RT. MPH administration resulted in reduced and normalised levels of commission errors and fast, moment-to-moment variability in RT. MPH did not affect the rate of omission errors, standard deviation of RT or slow frequency variability in RT. MPH administration may have a specific effect on those performance components that reflect sustained attention and top-down control rather than arousal.
The amygdala has been implicated in the recognition of facial emotions, especially fearful expressions, in adults with early-onset right temporal lobe epilepsy (TLE). The present study investigates the recognition of facial emotions in children and adolescents, 8-16 years old, with epilepsy. Twenty-nine subjects had TLE (13 right, 16 left) and eight had fronto-central epilepsy (FCE). Each was matched on age and gender with a control subject. Subjects were asked to label the emotions expressed in pictures of children's faces miming five basic emotions (happiness, sadness, fear, disgust and anger) or neutrality (no emotion). All groups of children with epilepsy performed less well than controls. Patterns of impairment differed according to the topography of the epilepsy: the left-TLE (LTLE) group was impaired in recognizing fear and neutrality, the right-TLE (RTLE) group was impaired in recognizing disgust and, the FCE group was impaired in recognizing happiness. We clearly demonstrated that early seizure onset is associated with poor recognition of facial expression of emotion in TLE group, particularly for fear. Although right-TLE and left-TLE subjects were both impaired in the recognition of facial emotion, their psychosocial adjustment, as measured by the CBCL questionnaire [Achenbach, T. M. (1991). Manual for the Child Behavior Checklist and Youth Self-report. Burlington, VT: University of Vermont Department of Psychiatry], showed that poor recognition of fearful expressions was related to behavioral disorders only in children with right-TLE. Our study demonstrates for the first time that early-onset TLE can compromise the development of recognizing facial expressions of emotion in children and adolescents and suggests a link between impaired fear recognition and behavioral disorders.
The present study examines a new alertness training strategy (Self-Alert Training, SAT) designed to explore the relationship between the top-down control processes governing arousal and sustained attention. In order to maximally target frontal control systems SAT combines a previously validated behavioural self-alerting technique [Robertson, I. H., Tegner, R., Tham, K., Lo, A., &amp; Nimmo-Smith, I. (1995). Sustained attention training for unilateral neglect: Theoretical and rehabilitation implications. Journal of Clinical and Experimental Neuropsychology, 17, 416-430] with an autonomic arousal biofeedback protocol in which participants learn to modulate their own arousal levels. The SAT protocol was first validated with a group of 23 neurologically healthy participants and then independently tested in a group of 18 adults with ADHD to determine its clinical utility. Half of the participants in each group were assigned to a placebo condition to control for non-specific effects. All participants performed the sustained attention to response task (SART) during pre- and post-training testing sessions to assess training effects on sustained attention. By the end of SAT all participants were able to modulate their own arousal levels without external prompting. Comparison of pre- and post-training baseline data indicated that, as predicted, SAT was associated with increased levels of autonomic arousal accompanied by improved accuracy on the SART. In contrast, participants in the placebo condition exhibited a gradual reduction in arousal over time and increased reaction time variability indicative of a vigilance decrement. These data demonstrate that the recruitment of top-down control processes during volitional modulation of arousal leads to improved sustained attention. These findings have important implications for the rehabilitation of attention deficits arising from frontal dysfunction.
Several lines of evidence implicate the prefrontal cortex in learning but there is little evidence from studies of human lesion patients to demonstrate the critical role of this structure. To this end, we tested patients with lesions of the frontal lobe (n=36) and healthy controls (n=35) on two learning tasks: the weather prediction task (WPT), and an eight-pair concurrent visual discrimination task ('Choose'). Performance of both tasks was previously shown to be disrupted in patients with Parkinson's disease; the Choose deficit was only present when patients were medicated. Patients with damage to the orbitofrontal cortex (OFC) were significantly impaired on Choose, compared to both healthy controls and non-OFC lesion patients. The OFC lesion patients showed a mild deficit on the first 50 trials of the WPT, compared to the control subjects but not non-OFC lesion patients. The selective deficit in the OFC patients on Choose performance could not be attributed to the larger lesion size in this group, and the deficit was not correlated with the volume of damage to adjacent prefrontal subregions (e.g. anterior cingulate cortex). These data support the notion that the OFC play a role in normal discrimination learning, and suggest qualitative similarities in learning performance of patients with OFC damage and medicated PD patients.
The basal ganglia have been associated with temporal processing in ranges of milliseconds and seconds. However, results from PD patient studies are elusive. Time perception in these patients has been tested with different approaches including repetitive movement tasks (i.e. finger tapping) and cognitive tasks (i.e. time reproduction), and both abnormal and normal performances have been reported for different time intervals. Furthermore, when PD patients were required to learn two target durations in the same session when they were off medication, they overestimated the short duration and underestimated the long duration in the seconds range. This pattern of temporal accuracy was described as a &quot;migration effect&quot; and was interpreted as a dysfunctional representation of memory for time (Malapani, C., Rakitin, B. C., Levy, R., Meck, W. H., Deweer, B., Dubois, B., et al. (1998). Coupled temporal memories in Parkinson's disease: A dopamine-related dysfunction. Journal of Cognitive Neuroscience, 10, 316-331). Here, we controlled the emergence of similar behaviour also during millisecond time processing in PD patients. A time reproduction task was employed in which subjects were required to estimate intervals in millisecond (500ms) and few second (2000ms) ranges. In the first experiment, these intervals were tested in the same session to verify whether the migration effect was present also between time intervals in different millisecond and few second ranges. In a second experiment, they were not intermingled but were tested in two separate sessions to verify whether abnormalities depended on a selective perceptual deficit of the time intervals tested (i.e. millisecond or second ranges). All experiments were performed in both off and on therapy conditions. Our results demonstrated that PD patients showed no deficits in time estimation for time intervals in either the millisecond or few second range when the different time intervals were tested in separate sessions. This negative finding was obtained in both on and off conditions. However, when the different ranges were tested in the same session, we found that PD patients were impaired selectively for time intervals in the seconds range. Our data seem to indicate that time processing in PD patients for time intervals spanning up to 2s is unimpaired and that abnormalities in such temporal scale may emerge only when patients have to deal with different durations, when timing involves further cognitive processes such as memory and attention.
Subjects with spatial neglect are slower and more variable in detecting visual targets, especially on the side opposite their brain injuries. These deficits can be seen by plotting cumulative distribution functions (CDF) of response times (RT). I demonstrate that dividing RT's by their means normalizes the RT CDF's of neglect subjects. The motivation for this transformation comes from Carpenter's LATER model [Carpenter, R. H. S., &amp; Williams, M. L. L. (1995). Neural computation of log likelihood in control of saccadic eye movements. Nature, 377, 59-62]. The most direct interpretation of this result is that some symptoms of neglect reflect abnormal estimates of stimulus prior probability.
Atomoxetine is a noradrenaline-specific reuptake inhibitor used clinically for the treatment of childhood and adult attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD). Studies in human volunteers and patient groups have shown that atomoxetine improves stop-signal reaction time (SSRT) performance, an effect consistent with a reduction in motor impulsivity. However, ADHD is a heterogeneous disorder and it is of interest to determine whether atomoxetine is similarly effective against other forms of impulsivity, as well as the attentional impairment present in certain subtypes of ADHD. The present study examined the effects of atomoxetine on impulsivity using an analogous SSRT task in rats and two additional tests of impulsivity; delay discounting of reward and the five-choice serial reaction time task (5CSRTT), the latter providing an added assessment of sustained visual attention. Atomoxetine produced a significant dose-dependent speeding of SSRT. In addition, atomoxetine produced a selective, dose-dependent decrease in premature responding on the 5CSRTT. Finally, on the delay-discounting task, atomoxetine significantly decreased impulsivity by increasing preference for the large-value reward across increasing delay. These findings conclusively demonstrate that atomoxetine decreases several distinct forms of impulsivity in rats. The apparent contrast of these effects with stimulant drugs such as amphetamine and methylphenidate, which generally act to increase impulsivity on the 5CSRTT, may provide new insights into the mechanisms of action of stimulant and nonstimulant drugs in ADHD.
In elderly persons, antipsychotic drugs are clinically prescribed off-label for a number of disorders outside of their Food and Drug Administration (FDA)-approved indications (schizophrenia and bipolar disorder). The largest number of antipsychotic prescriptions in older adults is for behavioral disturbances associated with dementia. In April 2005, the FDA, based on a meta-analysis of 17 double-blind randomized placebo-controlled trials among elderly people with dementia, determined that atypical antipsychotics were associated with a significantly (1.6-1.7 times) greater mortality risk compared with placebo, and asked that drug manufacturers add a 'black box' warning to prescribing information for these drugs. Most deaths were due to either cardiac or infectious causes, the two most common immediate causes of death in dementia in general. Clinicians, patients, and caregivers are left with unclear choices of treatment for dementia patients with psychosis and/or severe agitation. Not only are psychosis and agitation common in persons with dementia but they also frequently cause considerable caregiver distress and hasten institutionalization of patients. At the same time, there is a paucity of evidence-based treatment alternatives to antipsychotics for this population. Thus, there is insufficient evidence to suggest that psychotropics other than antipsychotics represent an overall effective and safe, let alone better, treatment choice for psychosis or agitation in dementia; currently no such treatment has been approved by the FDA for these symptoms. Similarly, the data on the efficacy of specific psychosocial treatments in patients with dementia are limited and inconclusive. The goal of this White Paper is to review relevant issues and make clinical and research recommendations regarding the treatment of elderly dementia patients with psychosis and/or agitation. The role of shared decision making and caution in using pharmacotherapy for these patients is stressed.
High or repeated doses of the recreational drug 3,4-methylenedioxymethamphetamine (MDMA, or 'Ecstasy') produce long-lasting deficits in several markers of serotonin (5-HT) system integrity and also alter behavioral function. However, it is not yet clear whether MDMA-induced serotonergic neurotoxicity is responsible for these behavioral changes or whether other mechanisms are involved. The present experiment tested the hypothesis that blocking serotonergic neurotoxicity by pretreatment with the selective 5-HT reuptake inhibitor citalopram will also prevent the behavioral and physiological consequences of an MDMA binge administration. Male, Sprague-Dawley rats (N=67) received MDMA (4 x 10 mg/kg) with or without citalopram (10 mg/kg) pretreatment. Core temperature, ejaculatory response, and body weight were monitored during and immediately following drug treatments. A battery of tests assessing motor, cognitive, exploratory, anxiety, and social behaviors was completed during a 10-week period following MDMA administration. Brain tissue was collected at 1 and 10 weeks after drug treatments for measurement of regional 5-HT transporter binding and (for the 1-week samples) 5-HT and 5-HIAA concentrations. Citalopram pretreatment blocked MDMA-related reductions in aggressive and exploratory behavior measured in the social interaction and hole-board tests respectively. Such pretreatment also had the expected protective effect against MDMA-induced 5-HT neurotoxicity at 1 week following the binge. In contrast, citalopram did not prevent most of the acute effects of MDMA (eg hyperthermia and weight loss), nor did it block the decreased motor activity seen in the binge-treated animals 1 day after dosing. These results suggest that some of the behavioral and physiological consequences of a high-dose MDMA regimen in rats are mediated by mechanisms other than the drug's effects on the serotonergic system. Elucidation of these mechanisms requires further study of the influence of MDMA on other neurotransmitter systems.

Subcortical projection from layer 5 neurons is the major cortical output. A transcription factor, Otx1, which is expressed in the layer 5 subcortical projection neurons in the visual cortex, was reported to be responsible for the establishment of visual area-specific layer 5 subcortical projections by inducing the sensorimotor cortex to adopt a visual cortex identity. However, we here demonstrate that the area of corticospinal neurons shifted caudo-medially in the Otx1-null mice of which cortex is 9 tenths in size compared with that of the wild-type littermates, while the whole visual cortex did not convert to the sensorimotor cortex in the absence of Otx1. This suggests that Otx1 is not crucial for the development of visual cortex identity but for the determination of the proportion of cortical areas to the whole neocortex.
Monkeys learned to use forceps to pick up food. The learning progressed in two stages. After having understood the task to have to use forceps through guidance, they (1) brought forceps toward food without seeing food until it was reached (1st stage), and (2) made forceps reach accurately to food using vision (2nd stage). We suggest that the learning without vision was a process of incorporating grasped-forceps into the body-scheme, thus enabling reaching with the extension (forceps) to a certain place in space. Using vision at the final stage was to precisely reach and to pick up food with the extension.









Celiac sprue is a gluten sensitive enteropathy in which there is a small bowel villous atrophy associated with gastrointestinal and extraintestinal symptoms. True prevalence is difficult to ascertain because many patients have atypical symptoms or none at all. Few children display CNS symptoms such as peripheral neuropathy and cerebellar ataxia. So far, stroke in posterior circulation territory as a presentation for celiac disease has not been reported. We report a 15-year-old male patient who presented as Wallenberg syndrome without any positive medical history. Brain MRI confirmed infarction, and magnetic resonance angiography showed vertebral artery stenosis. Laboratory findings revealed anemia and positive serologic tests for celiac disease, and duodenal biopsy confirmed the disease. In any children with symptoms of vertebrobasilar insufficiency, celiac disease as a treatable cause must be considered.
Acute disseminating encephalomyelitis (ADEM) is a treatable inflammatory, demyelinating disorder of the central nervous system. Early application of steroids has been shown to reduce morbidity, therefore, early diagnosis is highly desirable. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) is the imaging modality of choice for establishing the diagnosis along with the clinical presentation. The aim of this report is to show the potential diagnostic value of advanced MR techniques such as diffusion-weighted imaging (DWI), which has been found to add to the diagnostic power of MRI in the setting of demyelinating disorder, even in the absence of contrast enhancement. We report a case of ADEM in an 11-year-old boy revealing high signal intensity changes on DWI indicating elevated diffusion.
Ventriculoperitoneal shunt application is among the most frequently performed procedure in the treatment of hydrocephalus. Despite the peritoneal cavity being convenient for absorption of cerebrospinal fluid, multiple complications related to the shunt tend to develop in this area. Anal migration of ventriculoperitoneal shunt catheter is seen as a rare complication due to the intestinal perforation caused by peritoneal shunt catheters. The diagnosis of this condition is self-evident. In this report, an infant whose shunt catheter protrudes through the anus with no abdominal or CNS signs is presented.
Holoprosencephaly (HPE) is a defect of embryonic forebrain resulting from failure of growth and segmentation of the anterior end of the neural tube. It has been classified into 4 types based on the severity of associated brain and facial malformations. The most severe variety called alobar HPE is generally associated with major cranio-facial anomalies such as cyclopia, ethmocephaly, cebocephaly, or cleft-lip/palate. Significant etiological heterogeneity exists in HPE and includes both genetic and environmental causes. Maternal diabetes is a well-established environmental factor with a significant increased risk for HPE. We report on a Saudi Arab girl born to a diabetic mother, with the alobar type of holoprosencephaly, associated with very minimal cranio-facial defects. However, she displayed several other congenital malformations. In addition, she was diagnosed with cystic fibrosis. Simultaneous occurrence of cystic fibrosis and congenital anomalies has been rare.
Restless leg syndrome (RLS) is an abnormal sensation disorder. Defining the syndrome is difficult. It is transmitted autosomal dominant genetically, is especially prevalent in the lower limbs, and is seen in both genders. In the differential diagnosis of RLS, nocturnal leg cramps, akathisia, peripheral neuropathy, entrapment neuropathy, and vascular disease (for example, deep vein thrombosis) should be considered. A 52-year-old woman was admitted to our clinic with signs of paresthesia, she had abnormal sensation disorder in both legs and the right arm, which she had difficulty defining. She had applied to another center with the same complaints and had been evaluated as entrapment neuropathy, carpal tunnel syndrome, and/or peripheral neuropathy. Her electromyographic examination carried out by us was normal. The history, neurological examination findings, and results of standard laboratory analyses provided a diagnosis of idiopathic RLS. After the diagnosis of RLS in the proband, we questioned other family members. Her large family had 63 members, 35 males, and 28 females. Of 63 members, 17 also had an RLS diagnosis.












Healthcare professionals have long been concerned with the assessment of human gait, but only recently were they able to utilize instrumental gait analysis in routine clinical practice for diagnosis, and to guide the selection of treatment methods for complex musculo-skeletal and neurological disorders. The development of motion analysis systems has progressed through several stages from simple to more sophisticated, versatile, multimodal, and accurate equipment. Several computerized motion analysis systems are now commercially available for the measurement of human gait. These vary in their design and performance. The purpose of this review is to summarize briefly the history and advances in the technology of instrumental gait analysis, especially during the past 3 decades. Further, it is hoped that this review will give clinical practitioners and researchers a general insight into the variety of measurement systems that are currently available for gait analysis and enable them to make an informed choice of the motion analysis system that best suits their clinical needs.
People have always been fascinated by the exquisite precision and flexibility of the human hand. When hand meets object, we confront the overlapping worlds of sensorimotor and cognitive functions. The complex apparatus of the human hand is used to reach for objects, grasp and lift them, manipulate them, and use them to act on other objects. This review examines what is known about the control of the hand by the cerebral cortex. It compares and summarizes results from behavioral neuroscience, electrophysiology, and neuroimaging to provide a detailed description of the neural circuits that facilitate the formation of grip patterns in human and nonhuman primates.
Limb amputation results in plasticity of connections between the brain and muscles; the cortical motor representation of the missing limb seemingly disappears. The disappearance of the hand's motor representation is, however, difficult to reconcile with evidence that a perceptual representation of the missing limb persists in the form of a phantom limb endowed with sensory and motor qualities. Here, we argue that despite considerable reorganization within the motor cortex of upper-limb amputees, the representation of the amputated hand does not disappear. We hypothesize that two levels of hand-movement representation coexist within the primary motor cortex; at one level, limb movements are specified in terms of arm and hand motor commands, and at another level, limb movements are specified as muscles synergies. We propose that primary motor cortex reorganization after amputation concerns primarily the upper limb's muscular map but not its motor command map and that the integrity of the motor command map underlies the existence of the phantom limb.
Medical decision-making is based on benefit-to-cost analysis. Optimally, treatment obtains a high degree of benefit while minimizing the physical, social, and financial costs. The goals of the treatment of acoustic schwannomas are prohibiting tumor growth and alleviation of symptoms caused by damage to local structures. These symptoms-tinnitus, ataxia, and hearing loss-secondary to eighth nerve dysfunction, as well as symptoms arising from damage to adjacent structures such as the facial nerve, trigeminal nerve, or pons, can be caused by tumor growth or treatment. Determination of optimal therapy must also take into account an understanding of the natural history of the disease, because acoustic schwannomas are slow-growing benign tumors that when left untreated, usually enlarge over time and cause problems.
Brown-Sequard is known eponymously for the syndrome of hemisection of the spinal cord, but most clinicians are not familiar with his colorful, quixotic, and eccentric life history. His contributions to medicine and neuroscience reached much further than his discovery of the spinal hemisection syndrome. He lived in five countries on three continents and crossed the Atlantic 60 times, spending a total of almost 6 years on the sea. He contributed more than 500 papers in his lifetime, was even the editor of many prestigious journals, and spent his last years as Professeur au Collge de France, a most coveted position for a French neuroscientist. Many are not aware of his contributions to endocrinology and hormone replacement therapy, even those who consider him the father of modern endocrinology. Brown-Squard was a skillful experimentalist. He pioneered the concept of the advancement of neuroscience through experimental physiological observation. He was devoted to science. He was not interested in monetary gains through his inventions or patient care. Although he may be criticized for arriving at some incorrect conclusions from his experiments, his visionary ideas and prescient statements have stood the test of time; he truly was an eccentric genius. This article highlights Brown-Squard's life history, specifically his time in France and North America, and his contributions to neuroscience and endocrinology.
The surgical treatment of Parkinson's disease has been through a revival phase over the last 20 years with the development of deep brain stimulation (DBS). Thalamic DBS was developed first and has proven to be a very effective treatment for tremor. The limitation is the lack of effect on other symptoms. Other targets were therefore investigated, and the procedure was applied to the subthalamic nucleus (STN) and the internal globus pallidus (GPi). STN stimulation can improve a wide range of symptoms and is currently the preferred target for many patients. Nevertheless, the morbidity seems higher than with other targets, and the selection criteria have to be quite strict. When STN DBS is not advised, thalamic DBS remains an option for patients with severe tremor, and GPi stimulation for those with severe dyskinesias. DBS remains a symptomatic treatment for a limited number of patients; it does not seem to alter the disease progression, and many patients are not suitable. There is, therefore, the need for further research into other targets and other approaches.
Acute abstinence from cigarette smoking by nicotine-dependent smokers has been linked with cognitive deficits, but the role of nicotine dependence per se in these effects is not known. We therefore tested the relationships of nicotine dependence and smoking history with performance in perceptual-motor, timed tests of attention. Nicotine-dependent smokers (n = 37) and nonsmokers (n = 48), 18-55 years old, took both the d2 Test of Attention and the Digit Symbol Test on each of 2 test days. For smokers, testing on one day began after ad libitum smoking (&lt;45 min since last cigarette); and on the other day, it began after overnight abstinence (&gt;13 hr since last cigarette). On each test day, there were two test blocks with an intervening break, when only the smokers each smoked one cigarette. There were no significant effects of abstinence or of smoking one cigarette on the performance of smokers; however, across conditions, the smokers' performance on both tests correlated negatively with severity of nicotine dependence but not lifetime cigarette consumption or cigarette craving. Smokers with high nicotine dependence performed more slowly on both tests than less dependent smokers or nonsmokers. The findings suggest that severity of nicotine dependence and slowness in perceptual-motor tasks of attention share an underlying basis.

Inhibitors of alphav integrins have been developed as anti-angiogenic agents for cancer therapy and, among them, cyclic RGD-containing pentapeptides, such as cilengitide, are the most commonly used integrin antagonists. In this study, cilengitide was tested in combination with the methylating agent temozolomide (TMZ), a well-tolerated anticancer drug with favourable pharmacokinetic properties currently used for the therapy of metastatic melanoma. To this end, the influence of cilengitide and TMZ on malignant melanoma growth and endothelial cell proliferation were investigated, using in vitro and in vivo models. The results indicated that cilengitide and TMZ exerted synergistic antiproliferative effects against melanoma and endothelial cells in vitro and induced a statistically significant reduction of in vivo melanoma growth with respect to treatment with the methylating agent only. In conclusion, this study proposes the use of cilengitide in combination with TMZ for the treatment of metastatic melanoma, thereby opening novel perspectives for the use of integrin inhibitors to enhance the efficacy of chemotherapy.
Allergic rhinitis is a common disorder that results from a complex interaction of environmental and genetic causes. This disorder has a tremendous impact on the quality of life and on health care expenditures, as evidenced by a large loss of worker productivity. Care must be taken to promptly diagnose patients with this condition, evaluate them for associated conditions, and begin appropriate management to reduce its impact on the individual and the health care system. Allergic rhinitis represents only a component of the spectrum of inflammatory diseases involving the unified airway.
Psychosocial factors are crucial for understanding and treating chronic pain in adults, but also in children. For children, very few questionnaires for a multidimensional pain assessment exist. In adults, the Multidimensional Pain Inventory (MPI; [Kerns RD, Turk DC, Rudy TE. The West Haven-Yale Multidimensional Pain Inventory (WHYMPI). Pain 1985;23:345-56]) has been widely used to determine patients' adjustment to chronic pain. Using one section of the MPI as a model, we developed and evaluated the Pain Experience Questionnaire (PEQ) - child and parent version - that assesses the psychosocial impact of chronic pain in children and adolescents. As substantiated by confirmatory factor analysis in a sample of 111 children and adolescents (7-18 years) with chronic pain, the child PEQ entails the subscales pain severity, pain-related interference, affective distress and perceived social support. The parent version contains the subscales severity of the child's pain, interference and parental affective distress. Child and parent PEQ subscales were internally consistent. Age was unrelated to PEQ subscale scores. Girls and their mothers endorsed significantly greater pain severity, interference and affective distress. Validity analyses yielded a pattern of correlations with measures of depression, trait anxiety, pain activity, child behaviors, pain-related cognitions, and parenting behavior that is consistent with psychometric data of the adult MPI and previous findings on psychosocial aspects of chronic pediatric pain. Significant differences between children depending on patient status (participants in experimental or treatment studies, outpatients, inpatients) suggest external validity of the PEQ. Despite the preliminary nature of the psychometric evaluation, the child and parent PEQ seem promising for a comprehensive assessment of pediatric pain.
The X-linked Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease is the second most common form of inherited neuropathy and, unlike most other forms of this disease, may present with atypical manifestations because of central nervous system involvement. Episodic central nervous system symptoms in X-linked Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease may be triggered by illness, dehydration, physical exercise, or exposure to altitude. We describe a child with transient episodes of hemiplegia after simple hyperventilation, a presentation not previously described in pediatric Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease type X.
Recently, the natriuretic peptides were detected in the cholinergic and dopaminergic amacrine cells of the retina. We performed immunofluorescence labeling of rat retinal sections to examine the immunoreactivity of natriuretic peptide-activated guanylate cyclases (NPR-A and NPR-B) in the rat retina, in particular whether they were localized to dopaminergic and cholinergic amacrine cells. NPR-A and NPR-B immunoreactivity was detected in several layers of the retina including amacrine cells. In amacrine cells, both NPR-A and NPR-B were co-localized with tyrosine hydroxylase, a marker of dopaminergic cells. NPR-B, but not NPR-A, was localized to amacrine cells expressing choline acetyltransferase (ChAT), a marker of cholinergic cells. These findings suggest that natriuretic peptides have different regulatory systems in dopaminergic and cholinergic amacrine cells in rat retina.
The attentional blink (AB) effect demonstrates that when participants are instructed to report two targets presented in a rapid visual stimuli stream, the second target (T2) is often unable to be reported correctly if presented 200-500 msec after the onset of the first target (T1). However, if T2 is presented immediately after T1, in the conventional lag-1 position (100-msec stimulus onset asynchrony; SOA), little or no performance deficit occurs. The present experiments add to the growing literature relating the &quot;lag-1 sparing&quot; effect to T1 masking. Using a canonical AB paradigm, our results demonstrate that T2 performance at lag 1 is significantly reduced in the presence of T1 masking. The implications of this outcome are discussed in relation to theories of the AB.
Humans are remarkably insensitive to large changes in a visual display if the change occurs simultaneously with a secondary perceptual event. A widely held view is that this change blindness occurs because the secondary perceptual event prevents the change from capturing attention. However, whereas some studies have shown that top-down attentional priming can attenuate change blindness, the evidence regarding the effect of bottom-up attentional capture on change blindness is less clear-cut. Here, we compare the effects of attentional capture on change detection with participants' performance on a well-established attentional paradigm (a Posner-style cuing task). Experiment 1 established the time course of attentional capture in our paradigm. Experiment 2 demonstrated that this attentional capture was associated with facilitated change detection at short (150-msec), but not long (480-msec), latencies. These data show that reflexive attentional shifts facilitate change detection and are consistent with the view that shifts of attention are a necessary precondition for visual awareness.


Studies on the reinstatement of drug-seeking after withdrawal from chronic drug self-administration have varied in terms of the procedures by which animals are initially trained to self-administer the drug. The current study directly compared whether prior operant training for food pellet reinforcement and/or maintained dietary restriction significantly altered the reinstatement of extinguished cocaine-seeking in the presence of cocaine-paired cues, a priming injection of cocaine (10 mg/kg; i.p.), and the pharmacological stressor, yohimbine (1.25 or 2.5 mg/kg, i.p.). Male Long Evans rats were divided into four groups as follows: a) trained to lever press for food pellets prior to cocaine self-administration and then maintained on a restricted diet, b) trained to lever press for food pellets prior to cocaine self-administration and then placed on an ad libitum diet, c) untrained and maintained on a restricted diet, or d) untrained and placed on ad libitum feeding. All rats readily self-administered cocaine (0.2 mg/50 mul/infusion) and were subsequently extinguished in the absence of cocaine or previously cocaine-paired cues (light+tone). Following extinction, rats experienced cue-, cocaine-, and yohimbine-induced reinstatement testing. No significant differences were seen between groups for lever responding during the maintenance phase and during extinction. Likewise, reinstatement of cocaine-seeking did not vary across groups for cue-, cocaine-, or yohimbine-induced reinstatement. Under these specific parameters, operant training prior to cocaine self-administration and/or dietary restriction do not significantly alter reinstatement of cocaine-seeking. The results arguably support the approach of not using prior lever training with a non-drug reinforcer and to limit the use of dietary restriction only to the acquisition phase of drug self-administration.
Brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) has emerged as a regulator of development, plasticity and, recently, addiction. Decreased neurotrophic activity may be involved in ethanol-induced neurodegeneration in the adult brain and in the etiology of alcohol-related neurodevelopmental disorders. This can occur through decreased expression of BDNF or through inability of the receptor to transduce signals in the presence of ethanol. In contrast, recent studies implicate region-specific up-regulation of BDNF and associated signaling pathways in anxiety, addiction and homeostasis after ethanol exposure. Anxiety and depression are precipitating factors for substance abuse and these disorders also involve region-specific changes in BDNF in both pathogenesis and response to pharmacotherapy. Polymorphisms in the genes coding for BDNF and its receptor TrkB are linked to affective, substance abuse and appetitive disorders and therefore may play a role in the development of alcoholism. This review summarizes historical and pre-clinical data on BDNF and TrkB as it relates to ethanol toxicity and addiction. Many unresolved questions about region-specific changes in BDNF expression and the precise role of BDNF in neuropsychiatric disorders and addiction remain to be elucidated. Resolution of these questions will require significant integration of the literature on addiction and comorbid psychiatric disorders that contribute to the development of alcoholism.
A new version of a benzophenone antenna-sensitised photolabile derivative of l-glutamate, which has a dicarboxylic acid substituent on the benzophenone to promote water solubility, has been synthesised. It does not show problems of precipitation in the presence of calcium ions that were encountered with related compounds in which one or two phosphate groups were present as water-solubilising substituents but retains the enhanced photolytic efficiency that results from the benzophenone antenna. Photolysis of the compound proceeds with stoichiometric release of l-glutamate and pharmacological evaluations have shown that the compound itself has no evidence of agonist or antagonist activity in its unphotolysed form.
We describe the relationship between the shape of the phase-resetting curve (PRC) and the degree of stochastic synchronization observed between a pair of uncoupled general oscillators receiving partially correlated Poisson inputs in addition to inputs from independent sources. We use perturbation methods to derive an expression relating the shape of the PRC to the probability density function (PDF) of the phase difference between the oscillators. We compute various measures of the degree of synchrony and cross correlation from the PDF's and use the same to compare and contrast differently shaped PRCs, with respect to their ability to undergo stochastic synchronization. Since the shape of the PRC depends on underlying dynamical details of the oscillator system, we utilize the results obtained from the analysis of general oscillator systems to study specific models of neuronal oscillators. It is shown that the degree of stochastic synchronization is controlled both by the firing rate of the neuron and the membership of the PRC (type I or type II). It is also shown that the circular variance for the integrate and fire neuron and the generalized order parameter for a hippocampal interneuron model have a nonlinear relationship to the input correlation.
CLC-0 and cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator (CFTR) Cl(-) channels play important roles in Cl(-) transport across cell membranes. These two proteins belong to, respectively, the CLC and ABC transport protein families whose members encompass both ion channels and transporters. Defective function of members in these two protein families causes various hereditary human diseases. Ion channels and transporters were traditionally viewed as distinct entities in membrane transport physiology, but recent discoveries have blurred the line between these two classes of membrane transport proteins. CLC-0 and CFTR can be considered operationally as ligand-gated channels, though binding of the activating ligands appears to be coupled to an irreversible gating cycle driven by an input of free energy. High-resolution crystallographic structures of bacterial CLC proteins and ABC transporters have led us to a better understanding of the gating properties for CLC and CFTR Cl(-) channels. Furthermore, the joined force between structural and functional studies of these two protein families has offered a unique opportunity to peek into the evolutionary link between ion channels and transporters. A promising byproduct of this exercise is a deeper mechanistic insight into how different transport proteins work at a fundamental level.
The bed nucleus of the stria terminalis (BST) is a basal forebrain structure considered to be part of a cortico-striato-pallidal system that coordinates autonomic, neuroendocrine and behavioural physiological responses. Recent evidence suggests that the BST plays a role in the emotional aspect of pain. The objective of the present study was to further understand the neurophysiological bases underlying the involvement of the BST in the pain experience, in both acute and chronic pain conditions. Using c-Fos as an indicator of neuronal activation, the results demonstrated that a single toe-pinch in rats produced nuclei-and condition-specific neuronal responses within the anterior region of the BST (antBST). Specifically, acute noxious stimulation increased c-Fos in the dorsal medial (dAM) and fusiform (FU) nuclei. Chronic neuropathic pain induced by chronic constriction injury (CCI) of the sciatic nerve decreased the number of c-Fos positive cells following acute mechanical stimulation in the dAM and FU nuclei, and increased c-Fos immunoreactivity in the ventral medial (vAM) aspect of the BST. In addition, the results revealed a nuclei-specific sensitivity to the surgical procedure. Following noxious stimulation to animals that received a sham surgery, c-Fos immunoreactivity was blunted in the FU nucleus while it increased in the oval (OV) nucleus of the BST. Altogether, this study demonstrates that pain induces nuclei-and condition-specific neuronal activation in the BST revealing an intriguing supraspinal neurobiological substrate that may contribute to the physiology of acute nociception and the pathophysiology of chronic pain.

Phospholipases A(2) (PLA(2)) are ubiquitous enzymes involved in membrane fatty acid metabolism and intracellular signalling. Recent studies have shown that PLA(2) subtypes are implicated in the modulation of pathways related to memory acquisition and retrieval. We investigated the effects of cognitive training on platelet PLA(2) activity in healthy elderly individuals. Twenty-three cognitively unimpaired older adults were randomly assigned to receive memory training or standard outpatient care only. Both groups were cognitively assessed by the same protocol, and the experimental group (EG) underwent a four-session memory training intervention. Pre- and post-test measures included prose and list recall, WAIS-III digit symbol, strategy use measures and platelet PLA(2) group activity. After cognitive training, patients in the EG group had significant increase in cytosolic, calcium-dependent PLA(2) (cPLA(2)), extracellular (or secreted), calcium-dependent PLA(2) (sPLA(2)), total platelet PLA(2) activity, and significant decrease in platelet calcium-independent PLA(2) (iPLA(2)) activity. Our results suggest that memory training may have a modulating effect in PLA(2)-mediated biological systems associated with cognitive functions and neurodegenerative diseases.


Little is known about the positive emotional impact of fairness or the process of resolving conflict between fairness and financial interests. In past research, fairness has covaried with monetary payoff, such that the mental processes underlying preference for fairness and those underlying preference for greater monetary outcome could not be distinguished. We examined self-reported happiness and neural responses to fair and unfair offers while controlling for monetary payoff. Compared with unfair offers of equal monetary value, fair offers led to higher happiness ratings and activation in several reward regions of the brain. Furthermore, the tendency to accept unfair proposals was associated with increased activity in right ventrolateral prefrontal cortex, a region involved in emotion regulation, and with decreased activity in the anterior insula, which has been implicated in negative affect. This work provides evidence that fairness is hedonically valued and that tolerating unfair treatment for material gain involves a pattern of activation resembling suppression of negative affect.
Self-report surveys and behavioral tasks indicate greater risk-taking behavior in adolescents as compared with adults. However, the underlying causes of these behavioral differences remain unclear. The present study examined the possibility that adolescents may be more susceptible to immediate positive and negative outcomes than adults. We compared the behavior of adolescents and adults on a modified version of the Balloon Analogue Risk Task (Lejuez et al., 2002). The task required that participants press a button to &quot;inflate&quot; a series of balloons on a computer screen. Balloons inflated until either the participant released the button (&quot;saved&quot; balloons) or the balloon &quot;burst.&quot; Accumulated points increased as the duration of the buttonpress increased; however, simultaneously, the likelihood that the balloon would burst also increased. Adolescents inflated balloons to a larger size prior to saving them than adults did, suggesting relatively higher levels of risk taking, although the adolescents' behavior was not uniformly risk prone. Further, in comparison with adults, behavior in adolescents was more influenced by whether a balloon was saved or had burst on the preceding trial, suggesting that sensitivity to immediate consequences is one mechanism that underlies the observed difference in risk taking.
Neurobiological studies of stress often focus on the hippocampus where cortisol binds with different affinities to two types of corticosteroid receptors, i.e., mineralocorticoid receptor (MR) and glucocorticoid receptor (GR). The hippocampus is involved in learning and memory, and regulates the neuroendocrine stress response, but other brain regions also play a role, especially prefrontal cortex. Here, we examine MR and GR expression in adult squirrel monkey prefrontal cortex and hippocampus after exposure to social stress in infancy or adulthood. In situ hybridization histochemistry with (35)S-labeled squirrel monkey riboprobes and quantitative film autoradiography were used to measure the relative distributions of MR and GR mRNA. Distinct cortical cell layer-specific patterns of MR expression differed from GR expression in three prefrontal regions. The relative distributions of MR and GR also differed in hippocampal Cornu Ammonis (CA) regions. In monkeys exposed to adult social stress compared to the no-stress control, GR expression was diminished in hippocampal CA1 (P=0.021), whereas MR was diminished in cell layer III of ventrolateral prefrontal cortex (P=0.049). In contrast, exposure to early life stress diminished GR but not MR expression in cell layers I and II of dorsolateral prefrontal cortex (P's&lt;0.048). Similar reductions likewise occurred in ventrolateral prefrontal cortex, but the effects of early life stress on GR expression in this region were marginally not significant (P=0.053). These results provide new information on regional differences and the long-term effects of stress on MR and GR distributions in corticolimbic regions that control cognitive and neuroendocrine functions.
Both early-life stress and immune system activation in adulthood have been linked independently to depression in a number of studies. However, the relationship between early-life infection, which may be considered a &quot;stressor&quot;, and later-life depression has not been explored. We have reported that neonatal bacterial infection in rats leads to exaggerated brain cytokine production, as well as memory impairments, to a subsequent peripheral immune challenge in adulthood, and therefore predicted that stressor-induced depressive-like symptoms would be more severe in these rats as well. Rats treated on postnatal day 4 with PBS or Escherichia coli were as adults exposed to inescapable tailshock stress (IS), and then tested for sucrose preference, social exploration with a juvenile, and overall activity, 1, 3, 5, and 7 days following the stressor. Serum corticosterone and extracellular 5-HT within the basolateral amygdala were measured in a second group of rats in response to the IS. IS resulted in profound depressive-like behaviors in adult rats, but, surprisingly, rats that suffered a bacterial infection early in life had blunted corticosterone responses to the stressor and were remarkably protected from the depressive symptoms compared to controls. These data suggest that early-life infection should be considered within a cost/benefit perspective, in which outcomes in adulthood may be differentially protected or impaired. These data also suggest that the immune system likely plays a previously unsuspected role in &quot;homeostatic&quot; HPA programming and brain development, which may ultimately lend insight into the often-contradictory literature on cytokines, inflammation, and depression.










Alzheimer's disease is the most common cause of dementia characterized by progressive neurodegeneration. Based on the amyloid cascade hypothesis, a vaccine therapy for Alzheimer's disease (AD) was developed as a curative treatment. In 1999, the amyloid beta (Abeta) reduction in AD model transgenic mice with active vaccination with Abeta peptide was first reported. Although the clinical trials of active vaccination for AD patients were halted due to the development of meningoencephalitis in some patients, from the analysis of the clinical and pathological findings of treated patients, the vaccine therapy is thought to be effective. Based on such information, the vaccines for clinical application of human AD have been improved to control excessive immune reaction. Recently, we have developed non-viral DNA vaccines and obtained substantial Abeta reduction in transgenic mice without side effects. DNA vaccines have many advantages over conventional active or passive immunization. In this article, we review conventional vaccine therapies and further explain our non-viral DNA vaccine therapy. Finally, we show some data regarding the mechanisms of Abeta reduction after administration of DNA vaccines. DNA vaccination may open up new avenues of vaccine therapy for AD.










The inherited myopathies and muscular dystrophies are a diverse group of muscle diseases presenting with common complaints and physical signs: weakness, motor delay, and respiratory and bulbar dysfunction. The myopathies are caused by genetic defects in the contractile apparatus of muscle, and defined by distinctive histochemical or ultrastructural changes on muscle biopsy. The muscular dystrophies, in contrast, are diseases of muscle membrane or supporting proteins, which are generally characterized by pathological evidence of ongoing muscle degeneration and regeneration. Diagnosis of these disorders is contingent on a targeted history and examination, biochemical and neurophysiological assessment, muscle biopsy, and genetic testing. Treatment is focused on symptomatic management and rehabilitation, and monitoring for disease complications.
Neuropathic pain refers to pain that originates from pathology of the nervous system. Currently available therapies yield limited success in treating such pain, suggesting the need for new insight into its underlying mechanisms. Neuropathic pain involves not only ascending pain pathway and its central modulation, but also descending inhibition and descending facilitation systems. In this review, we introduce briefly the concept of descending facilitation and its role in the development of neuropathic pain. Understanding the descending facilitation system can provide new insights into the modulation of neuropathic pain, and lead to the development of novel therapeutic approaches for the treatment of neuropathic pain.
Repair of the injured spinal cord by regeneration therapy remains an elusive goal. In contrast, progress in medical care and rehabilitation has resulted in improved health and function of persons with spinal cord injury (SCI). In the absence of a cure, raising the level of achievable function in mobility and self-care will first and foremost depend on creative use of the rapidly advancing technology that has been so widely applied in our society. Building on achievements in microelectronics, microprocessing and neuroscience, rehabilitation medicine scientists have succeeded in developing functional electrical stimulation (FES) systems that enable certain individuals with SCI to use their paralyzed hands, arms, trunk, legs and diaphragm for functional purposes and gain a degree of control over bladder and bowel evacuation. This review presents an overview of the progress made, describes the current challenges and suggests ways to improve further FES systems and make these more widely available.
Sonic hedgehog (Shh) is necessary for sustaining the proliferation of neural stem cells (NSCs), yet little is known about its mechanisms. Whereas Gli1, Gli2, and Gli3, the primary mediators of Shh signaling, were all expressed in hippocampal neural progenitors, Shh treatment of NSCs induced only Gli1 expression. Acute depletion of Gli1 in postnatal NSCs by short-hairpin RNA decreased proliferation, whereas germline deletion of Gli1 did not affect NSC proliferation, suggesting a difference in mechanisms of Gli1 compensation that may be developmentally dependent. To determine whether Gli1 was sufficient to enhance NSC proliferation, we overexpressed this mitogen and were surprised to find that Gli1 resulted in decreased proliferation, accumulation of NSCs in the G2/M phase of cell cycle, and apoptosis. In contrast, Gli1-expressing lineage-restricted neural precursors demonstrated a 4.5-fold proliferation enhancement. Expression analyses of Gli1-expressing NSCs identified significant induction of Gadd45a and decreased cyclin A2 and Stag1 mRNA, genes involved in the G2-M transition and apoptosis. Furthermore, Gadd45a overexpression was sufficient to partially recapitulate the Gli1-induced G2/M accumulation and cell death of NSCs. In contrast to normal stem cells, tumor-derived stem cells had markedly higher basal Gli1 expression and did not undergo apoptosis with further elevation of Gli1. Our data suggest that Gli1-induced apoptosis may serve as a protective mechanism against premature mitosis and may give insight into mechanisms by which nonmalignant stem cells restrain hyperproliferation in the context of potentially transforming mitogenic signals. Tumor-derived stem cells apparently lack these mechanisms, which may contribute to their unrestrained proliferation and malignant potential.
Mouse embryonic stem (ES) cells grown in feeder-free suspension cultures in the presence of leukemia inhibitory factor (LIF) and basic fibroblast growth factor (bFGF) form spheres that retain pluripotency after multiple passages. ES cell-derived spheres of any passage acquired increased competence to differentiate into neurons over time in culture. Eight-day-old spheres produced many neurons upon plating in differentiation conditions whereas 3-day-old spheres produce none, even after monolayer expansion or treatment with blockers of inhibitory signals, indicating the acquisition of a reversible, proto-neurogenic state during sphere development. Gene expression profiling with oligonucleotide microarrays was used to identify the transcriptional changes accompanying this process. Sphere growth was characterized by down-regulation of a subset of ES cell-expressed genes during the first few days of sphere formation, and progressive up-regulation of novel genes over the course of 1 week in culture. Differential gene expression between 3-day-old and 8 day-old spheres was verified by quantitative real-time PCR experiments. Gene Set Enrichment Analysis (GSEA) of microarray data indicated that neurogenic potential in the late stages of sphere development correlated predominantly with up-regulation of pathways related to mitochondrial function, cell metabolism, oxidative stress, hypoxia, and down-regulation of RNA transcription and proteasome machineries, as well as pathways induced by myc and repressed by retinoic acid. We propose that differences in cellular metabolic state brought about by cell-cell contact and paracrine interactions in the sphere niche may play crucial roles in biasing the early stages of ES cell differentiation toward a neuronal phenotype.







Numerous studies have demonstrated that early adverse experiences are associated with the development of susceptibility to stress later in life. Although it is known that early experience of adversity, such as neonatal isolation, maternal separation, and low maternal care, enhances the activity of the hypothalamo-pituitary-adrenalaxis in rodents, the detailed mechanism underlying stress susceptibility induced by early adversity remains to be elucidated. Since neurotrophins have been shown to have a neuroprotective effect, we examined the influence of repeated neonatal isolation on expression of nerve growth factor (NGF), glia cell-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF), and neurotrophin-3 mRNA in the hippocampus of juvenile and adult rats subsequently exposed immobilization stress, using real-time quantitative PCR and in situ hybridization. Neonatal isolation did not affect the basal hippocampal expression of these neurotrophin mRNAs in either juvenile or adult rats not subsequently exposed to immobilization. Similarly, there was a significant interaction between neonatal isolation and immobilization that affected the expression of NGF and GDNF mRNAs. Neonatal isolation attenuated the induction of NGF mRNA in both groups of rats and decreased GDNF mRNA in juvenile rats in response to immobilization. The decreased induction of NGF mRNA and reduced GDNF mRNA in response to immobilization was found in the CA3 pyramidal cell layer and dentate gyrus granular cell layer in the hippocampus of adult rats that had been subjected to neonatal isolation. These findings suggest that susceptibility to stress arising from prior neonatal isolation might be a result of decreased neuroprotective support through NGF and GDNF.
One of the most difficult issues in the management of patients with human African trypanosomiasis (HAT) is the reliable distinction between early-stage disease and late-stage disease where the trypanosomes have traversed the blood-brain barrier to enter the central nervous system (CNS). Currently, there is no universal consensus for the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) findings that define late-stage HAT and provide the rationale for treatment with toxic drugs for CNS disease. Whilst some clinicians use the WHO CSF criteria, others use alternative findings to define late-stage disease. Novel analyses in CSF of patients are urgently required for more accurate diagnostic staging.
Semaphorins were initially characterized according to their role in repulsive axon guidance but are now recognized as crucial regulators of morphogenesis and homeostasis over a wide range of organ systems. The pleiotropic nature of semaphorin signaling and its implication in human disease has triggered an enormous interest in the receptor and intracellular signaling mechanisms that direct the cell-type-specific and diverse biological effects of semaphorins. Recent breakthroughs in our understanding of semaphorin signaling link integrin and semaphorin signaling pathways, identify novel ligand-receptor interactions and provide insight into the cellular and molecular bases of bifunctional and reverse signaling events. These discoveries could lead to therapeutic advances in axonal regeneration, cancer and other diseases.
LKB1 and AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK) are serine-threonine kinases implicated in key cellular pathways, including polarity establishment and energy sensing, respectively. Recent in vivo analyses in Drosophila have demonstrated vital roles for both AMPK and LKB1--in part through the myosin regulatory light chain--in cell polarity and cell division. Evidence from mammalian experiments also supports non-metabolic functions for LKB1 and AMPK. This review examines unanticipated AMPK functions for initiating and maintaining cell polarity and completing normal cell division. The ability of AMPK to sense energy status might be coupled with fundamental cell biological functions.
Most of the drugs that have entered the market for treating obesity were originally developed to treat psychiatric diseases. During the past decade, understanding of the neural circuits that underlie food intake has increased considerably. Different aspects of ingestive behavior such as meal termination, meal initiation and overconsumption of highly rewarding and palatable foods are modulated by different neuroanatomical structures. Integration of the action of many signaling molecules (e.g. hormones, neurotransmitters and neuropeptides) in these structures results in a response that, ultimately, modulates food intake. Thus, the type of drug required by an obese patient might depend on the individual cause of obesity. In this article, we summarize the neural circuits that regulate food intake and we provide a framework for understanding how obesity drugs function. Several potential drug targets are expressed in different neural circuits, implying that current and future obesity drugs act on partially overlapping systems that control food intake.
Impulsivity is a heterogenous phenomenon encompassing several behavioural phenomena that can be dissociated neuroanatomically as well as pharmacologically. Impulsivity is pathological in several psychiatric disorders including attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD), drug addiction and personality disorders. Pharmacological agents alleviating impulsivity therefore might substantially aid the treatment of these disorders. The availability of preclinical models that measure various forms of impulsivity has greatly increased our understanding of its neuropharmacological substrates. Historically, deficits in central serotonin neurotransmission are thought to underlie impulsivity. Accumulating evidence also points towards an important role of brain dopamine and noradrenaline systems in impulsive behaviour, consistent with the therapeutic efficacy of amphetamine, methylphenidate and atomoxetine in ADHD. However, recent findings also implicate glutamate and cannabinoid neurotransmission in impulsivity. In this review, we will discuss some of the recent developments in the neuropharmacological manipulation of impulsive behaviour.
Aneurysmal bone cyst is a benign fibro-osseous lesion usually described in the long bones. Intraorbital aneurysmal bone cyst is a rare clinical entity with an entirely different outcome and prognosis as compared to the usual pediatric orbital tumors. The authors report magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) features of an orbital mass lesion in a 4-year-old child who presented with painless proptosis of right eye. Characteristic MRI findings led to a suspicion of an aneurysmal bone cyst that was totally excised via a right frontotemporal craniotomy. Appreciation of characteristic MRI features can be of extreme help for appropriate diagnosis and management of this rare entity.
Studies have shown that familial aggregation is of importance for abdominal symptoms including irritable bowel syndrome and there are a few reports of a moderate heritability for irritable bowel syndrome. Sex differences in prevalence and incidence of irritable bowel syndrome have been demonstrated however less is known about sex differences in heritability. The objective was to investigate whether there were sex differences in heritability of irritable bowel syndrome while accounting for different prevalences among women and men in different age groups. A sample of 45,750 Swedish twins, whereof 16,961 were complete twin pairs, participated in a telephone interview. The sample was divided into three age groups (40-54, 55-64 and 65 years and older) and the diagnosis of irritable bowel syndrome was operationally defined with a number of disorder specific symptoms. Standard biometrical model fitting analyses were conducted using raw ordinal data from same-sex and opposite-sex twins. The prevalence of irritable bowel syndrome was greater among women than men and more prevalent at younger ages (e.g., women 10.3%, men 6.3% at ages 40-54 years vs. women 6.1%, men 4% at ages over 65 years). The heritability of the disorder was approximately 25% in all age groups. We found no evidence for sex differences in heritability in any of the age groups, however, models allowing prevalences of irritable bowel syndrome to differ between sexes and age groups fitted best.

A dysregulated hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis (HPA) has been implicated in major depressive disorder and most commonly used animal models of depression have been shown to elevate circulating levels of plasma corticosterone. We have compared the effects of chronic and acute corticosterone administration on hippocampal cell proliferation (as measured by BrdU immunohistochemistry), hippocampal volume and the appearance of anxiety (light dark box) and depression (forced swim test) like behaviours in CD1 mice. We have also examined the effects of chronic administration of fluoxetine and imipramine on these parameters. Chronic (14 days) but not acute treatment with corticosterone resulted in reduced hippocampal cell proliferation and granule cell layer volume, these changes were prevented by co-administration of imipramine and fluoxetine. In contrast, acute and 7 day but not 14 or 21 day treatment with corticosterone gave rise to a &quot;depressed&quot; phenotype in the forced swim test. Mice treated for 14 days with corticosterone also developed an anxious phenotype in the light dark box but only upon repeated testing. The results presented here demonstrate that moderately elevated corticosterone for a prolonged period is sufficient to induce cellular changes in the hippocampus that are prevented by chronic administration of antidepressants.
Cholinergic hypothesis and amyloid cascade hypothesis are mainly proposed for Alzheimer's disease; however, the relationship between these hypotheses is poorly understood. To address the question of whether amyloid beta-peptide pathology affects cholinergic neurotransmission, we examined the effect of a cholinesterase inhibitor, physostigmine, on field excitatory postsynaptic potentials (EPSPs) evoked by single-pulse stimulation in the CA1 region of the hippocampus of various APPswe/PS1dE9 transgenic mice with different degrees of amyloid beta-peptide pathology. Reduced field EPSPs by physostigmine in transgenic mice at 3 months of age, when the mice had negligible amyloid beta-peptide levels and no amyloid beta-peptide deposits, were indistinguishable from those in age-matched wild-type mice. In contrast, reduced field EPSPs by physostigmine in transgenic mice at 5 months of age, when the mice had low amyloid beta-peptide levels and subtle amyloid beta-peptide deposits, were significantly lower than those in age-matched wild-type mice. Next, we characterized acetylcholine receptors, which play important roles in cholinergic neurotransmission, because physostigmine resulted in increased acetylcholine levels in the synaptic cleft. Different reductions of field EPSPs by physostigmine between transgenic and wild-type mice at 5 months of age were not affected by a nicotinic receptor antagonist, mecamylamine; however, reduced field EPSPs by physostigmine in both transgenic and wild-type mice were restored to basal levels by a muscarinic receptor antagonist, atropine. These results indicate that cholinergic modulation of glutamatergic transmission is already impaired at the onset of the formation of amyloid beta-peptide deposits, and muscarinic receptor dysfunction is one of the causes of this impairment.
In this paper, we compare and validate different probabilistic models of human heart beat intervals for assessment of the electrocardiogram data recorded with varying conditions in posture and pharmacological autonomic blockade. The models are validated using the adaptive point process filtering paradigm and Kolmogorov-Smirnov test. The inverse Gaussian model was found to achieve the overall best performance in the analysis of autonomic control. We further improve the model by incorporating the respiratory covariate measurements and present dynamic respiratory sinus arrhythmia (RSA) analysis. Our results suggest the instantaneous RSA gain computed from our proposed model as a potential index of vagal control dynamics.
Migraine is a recurrent disorder that progresses in some individuals. Chronic daily headache is the result of such a progression. Identifying risk factors for progression is an important element of migraine evaluation. If risk factors can be identified, that might provide a foundation for more aggressive preventive intervention. In this perspective identification of remediable risk factors is essential. Remediable risk factors are: frequency of migraine attacks, acute medication overuse (with non specific and specific drugs), caffeine overuse, overweight and obesity, snoring and psychiatric comorbidity.
Migraine can be a very disabling disorder. Thus, migraine sufferers must be fully evaluated. To assess the number of days with crisis and the number of days with anti-migraine drugs intake a diary must be used. Disability and quality of life can be evaluated with questionnaires as MIDAS, HIT-6 or MSQOL. Emotional distress can be assessed with HAD scale. If the number of acute-migraine drugs intake is regularly higher than 8 days per month behavioural dependence should be looked at. A complete evaluation allows us to correctly manage patients: modify crisis treatment, start preventive treatment and view the withdrawal of acute migraine drugs.
Diagnosis of primary headache disorders depends on systematic exclusion of secondary disorders and systematic identification of the specific features of the primary disorders. The four categories of primary headaches include migraine, tension-type headache, cluster headache and other trigeminal autonomic cephalalgias, and other primary headaches.
In patients suffering from headaches, diagnosis is a common dilemma in general practice. Patients mostly present with chronic headaches which have already been identified and consult their physician for headache management rather than for identification. However, acute headaches or recent-onset headaches are sometimes observed; in that case, an examination is required to screen for a potential curable cause. The examination of headache patients consists first and foremost of an exhaustive, semi-structured history taking, which will enable the physician to characterize the headaches in terms of symptomatology and most of the times to determine the etiology. If a doubt persists, further examinations should be performed following history taking and physical examination.


Summary: In order to overcome the possibility of recanalization and compaction with Platinum GDC coils Tantalum coils were placed in three aneurysms in swine. Comparative coiling was done on the other side in each animal with platinum GDC. More stable thrombus was observed on the aneurysms coiled with Tantalum GDC.
The sequencing procedure has been used to determine the size of the CAG repeat expansion for the diagnosis of genetic disorders. Likewise, standard polymerase chain reaction (PCR) and gel electrophoresis techniques are applied for screening large number of patients. The trinucleotide repeats (TNR) region amplification by means of the PCR procedure was initially performed using 32-P end-labelled primers and currently carried out with fluorescently end-labelled primers. The goal to obtain reliable TNR quantification assays, at low cost and short assay times, represents a challenge for the molecular diagnosis aimed at massive screening of affected populations. In the current work, we obtained preliminary results of a new methodology for the detection and size estimation of CAG expanded alleles. The assay was based on an indirect enzyme linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) for quantifying the amount of labelled cytidines in DNA molecules. The label, 6-(p-bromobenzamido)caproyl radical, was introduced by the transamination and acylation reactions. A group of model sequences containing different numbers of CAG repeats, as well as the ATXN3 (ataxin 3) gene (from subjects suffering type 3 spinocerebellar ataxia SCA3) were used for assay standardization. The assay is simple, inexpensive, and easy to perform and differentiates distinct degrees of CAG expansions.
We characterised the dynamics in the oscillatory potentials (OPs) of the rat electroretinogram (ERG) using a continuous complex Morlet wavelet transform. Dark-adapted (&gt;12h) full field ERG responses were recorded from five anaesthetized (ketamine:xylazine, 60:5mg/kg) adult Long-Evans rats (10-12weeks). Five responses were obtained for brief LED flashes (1-4ms) in a ganzfeld at exposures ranging from -4.2 to 1.58logcdsm(-2). Signals were recorded across a bandwidth of 0.3-1kHz and digitized at 10kHz. Morlet wavelets with frequencies between 50 and 250Hz were correlated with raw ERG signals at 1ms intervals. The amplitude of the correlation at each time and frequency was given by the modulus of the complex wavelet response. Candidate OPs were identified as local peaks within 10% of the maximum amplitude. As flash exposure increased, the amplitude of the OP response increased, the peak OP occurred earlier, and the peak OP frequency increased. OPs at brighter flashes clustered into two groups, peaking at 50ms in the 70 and 130Hz band for moderate intensities, and peaking at 20ms in the 70Hz band and 50ms in the 120Hz band for the highest intensities (&gt;0logcdsm(-2)). These dynamics agree with physiological, pharmacological and clinical studies that suggest several distinct neural mechanisms contribute to OPs. Wavelet analysis reveals important dynamics in OP data that are not evident with traditional analytical approaches.
Inhibitory silent period (SP) is a transient suppression of voluntary muscle activity after depolarization of representative motor neuronal populations following transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS). Our aim was to evaluate and present an optimal protocol for the measurement of SP by (1) determining the impact of muscle activation level and stimulus intensity (SI) on the duration of SP, and, (2) studying the relationship between motor evoked potential (MEP) and SP, using targeted stimulus delivery. Single magnetic pulses were focused on the optimal representation area of the thenar musculature on primary motor cortex. We utilized real-time 3D-positioning of TMS-evoked electric field on anatomical structures derived from individual MR-images. The SI varied from 80% to 120% of individual resting motor threshold (MT). Muscle activation levels varied from 20% to 80% of the maximal voluntary contraction (MVC). Contralateral SP lengthened significantly with increasing SI independent of target muscle activation. The peak amplitude of the MEP was affected by SI and force. Latency and duration of the MEP were practically unaffected by SI or force. Focal stimulation at 110-120% MT and approximately 50% MVC (with only negligible need for control) provides most stable and informative SP. MEP should be included in SP as the error from marking the onset diminishes. This study provides a guideline for the consistent measurement of SP, which is applicable when using navigated or traditional TMS.
The Xenopus oocyte expression system has played an important role in the study of cellular proteins, particularly in the field of membrane physiology; expression of transporters and ion channels has significantly advanced our knowledge of these membrane proteins and the rapid and easy expression of mutants has been crucial in many structure-function studies. Xenopus oocytes are an expression system in many ligand-binding assays and in functional screening for ion channel modulators. Several commercially available automated technologies use this system, generating a demand for large numbers of oocytes injected with ion channel genes. Injection of oocytes with genetic material is generally carried out manually. Here we describe an automated system capable of injecting up to 600 oocytes per hour. Oocytes are contained in microplates with conical wells, a simple calibration procedure by the operator is required and pipette filling and oocyte injection are carried out automatically. Following intracellular injection of mRNA coding for ligand-gated ion channels close to 100% of oocytes tested positive for expression, and intranuclear injection of cDNA gave a rate of expression &gt;50%. Moreover, we demonstrate that this method can also be successfully applied to inject zebrafish embryos and could be extended to other cell types.
Interest in local field potentials (LFPs) and action potential shape has increased markedly. The present work describes distortions of these signals that occur for two reasons. First, the microelectrode recording circuit operates as a voltage divider producing frequency-dependent attenuation and phase shifts when electrode impedance is not negligible relative to amplifier input impedance. Because of the much higher electrode impedance at low frequencies, this occurred over frequency ranges of LFPs measured by neurophysiologists for one head-stage tested. Second, frequency-dependent phase shifts are induced by subsequent filters. Thus, we report these effects and the resulting amplitude envelope delays and distortion of waveforms recorded through a commercial data acquisition system and a range of tungsten microelectrodes. These distortions can be corrected, but must be accounted for when interpreting field potential and spike shape data.
The maintenance of the sterility of craniotomies for serial acute neurophysiological recordings is exacting and time consuming yet is vital to the health of valuable experimental animals. We have developed a method to seal the craniotomy with surgical grade silicone elastomer (Silastic) in a hermetically sealed chamber. Under these conditions the tissues in the craniotomy and the inside surface of the chamber remain unpopulated by bacteria. The silicone elastomer sealant retarded the growth of granulation tissue on the dura and reduced the procedures required to maintain ideal conditions for neurophysiological recordings.
Pre-synaptic dopamine, norepinephrine and serotonin transporters (DAT, NET and SERT) terminate synaptic catecholamine transmission through reuptake of released neurotransmitter. Common approaches for studying these transporters involve radiolabeled substrates or inhibitors which, however, have several limitations. In this study we have used a novel neurotransmitter transporter uptake assay kit. The assay employs a fluorescent substrate that mimics the biogenic amine neurotransmitters and is taken up by the cell through the specific transporters, resulting in increased fluorescence intensity. In order to validate the assay, a variety of reference and proprietary neurotransmitter transporter ligands from a number of chemical and pharmacological classes were tested. The ability of these compounds to inhibit the selective transporter-mediated uptake demonstrated a similar rank order of potency and IC(50) values close to those obtained in radiolabeled neurotransmitter uptake assays. The described assay enables monitoring of dynamic transport activity of DAT, NET and SERT and is amenable for high-throughput screening and compound characterization.
Internally quenched fluorogenic substrates are commonly used for measuring enzyme activity in biological samples and allow high sensitivity and continuous real-time measurement that is well suited for high throughput analysis. We describe the development and optimisation of an immunocapture-based assay that uses the fluorogenic peptide substrate (Mca-RPPGFSAFK(Dnp)) and allows the specific measurement of insulin-degrading enzyme (IDE) activity in brain tissue homogenates. This fluorogenic substrate can be cleaved by a number of enzymes including neprilysin (NEP), endothelin-converting enzyme-1 (ECE-1) and angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE), as well as IDE, and we have previously shown that discrimination between these individual enzymes is not readily achieved in tissue homogenates, even in the presence of selective inhibitors and pH conditions. We tested a panel of IDE antibodies to isolate and capture IDE from brain tissue homogenates and found that immunocapture with antibody to the inactive domain of IDE prior to the addition of fluorogenic substrate allows sensitive (linear at 156-2500ng/ml) and specific measurement of IDE activity and negligible cross-reactivity with NEP, ACE or ECE-1. This assay should allow the measurement of IDE enzyme levels in a variety of biological tissues and may be useful in study of diseases such as Alzheimer's disease and insulin-dependent diabetes.
Conventional fMRI analyses assess the summary of temporal information in terms of the coefficients of temporal basis functions. Based on established finite impulse response (FIR) analysis methodology we show how spatiotemporal statistical parametric maps may be concatenated to form Brain Activation Movies (BAMs), dynamic activation maps representing the temporal evolution of brain activation throughout task performance. These BAMs enable comprehensive assessment of the dynamics in functional topology without restriction to predefined regions and without detailed information on the stimulus paradigm. We apply BAM visualization to two fMRI studies demonstrating the additional spatiotemporal information available compared to standard fMRI result presentation. Here we show that BAMs allow for unbiased data visualization providing dynamic activation maps without assumptions on the neural activity except reproducibility across trials. It may thus be useful in proceeding from static to dynamic brain mapping, widening the range of fMRI in neuroscience. In addition, BAMs might be helpful tools in visualizing the temporal evolution of activation in &quot;real-time&quot; for better and intuitive understanding of temporal processes in the human brain.
Virus-based methods for labelling populations of cortical neurons, when combined with cell-type specific recombinant promoters and techniques allowing temporal control of gene expression, provide neuroscience with new opportunities to examine the connectivity between brain regions and how this connectivity is modified by experience or disease. However, to take full advantage of these technical advances, it is necessary to develop new methods for quantification of the axonal projections revealed. Here we describe a method for quantitative analysis of axonal projection patterns emanating from populations of labelled cells, using transmitted light bright field microscopy. A single high resolution image of an area to be analysed is first acquired using mosaic extended focus image microscopy. This image is then analysed by specifically developed image processing algorithms that identify and track axon segments present. For quantitative analysis, measurement grids consisting of a user-defined number of individual elements are placed over an area of interest, with the computer-based method then returning the summed length of the axon segments in each element. Axon density plots can thus be generated. We present an example from rat brain showing, over a whole coronal section, axon densities emanating from a population of layer 2/3 somatosensory neurons.
Deficiency of docosahexaenoic acid (DHA) and other omega-3 (omega3) fatty acids may constitute an alterable risk factor for Alzheimer's disease (AD). Mechanisms of potential involvement of DHA in the disease process have been postulated primarily from studies in vitro and in mouse models of AD. Information on the fatty acid profile of the brain in AD itself is limited and in some respects contradictory. Interpretation of the findings is complicated by the diversity of methods used in previous studies and a lack of information as to the effect of post-mortem delay on the results. Here we report the development of a simple and highly reproducible method that enables relatively high-throughput measurement of the fatty acid composition in samples of brain tissue and using this method we have demonstrated that there is no significant change in fatty acid composition under conditions designed to model post-mortem delay of up to 3 days at 4 degrees C (or even at room temperature). The development of this method and the observation that delay of up to 3 days has no effect on fatty acid content will facilitate further studies of fatty acid composition on large cohorts of post-mortem brains.
Examination of spontaneous intrinsic brain activity is drawing increasing interest, thus methods for such analyses are rapidly evolving. Here we describe a novel measure, &quot;network homogeneity&quot;, that allows for assessment of cohesiveness within a specified functional network, and apply it to resting-state fMRI data from adult ADHD and control participants. We examined the default mode network, a medial-wall based network characterized by high baseline activity that decreases during attention-demanding cognitive tasks. We found reduced network homogeneity within the default mode network in ADHD subjects compared to age-matched controls, particularly between the precuneus and other default mode network regions. This confirms previously published results using seed-based functional connectivity measures, and provides further evidence that altered precuneus connectivity is involved in the neuropathology of ADHD. Network homogeneity provides a potential alternative method for assessing functional connectivity of specific large-scale networks in clinical populations.
The anxiolytic effects of benzodiazepines are reduced after a single exposure of rats to elevated plus-maze test (EPM). Midazolam showed an anxioselective profile in animals submitted to one session (T1) but did not change the usual exploratory behavior of rats exposed twice (T2) to the EPM. In this study we examined further the one-trial tolerance by performing a factor analysis of the exploratory behavior of rats injected with saline before both trials as well as an immunohistochemistry study for quantification of Fos expression in encephalic structures after these sessions. Factor analysis of all behavioral categories revealed that factor 1 consisted of anxiety-related categories in T1 whereas these same behavioral categories loaded on factor 2 in T2. Risk assessment was also dissociated as it loaded stronger on T2 (factor 3) than on T1 (factor 4). Locomotor activity in T1 loaded on factor 5. Immunohistochemistry analyses showed that Fos expression predominated in limbic structures in T1 group. The medial prefrontal cortex and amygdala were the main areas activated in T2 group. These data suggest that anxiety and risk assessment behaviors change their valence across the EPM sessions. T2 is characterized by the emergence of a fear factor, more powerful risk assessment and medial prefrontal cortex activation. The amygdala functions as a switch between the anxiety-like patterns of T1 to the cognitive control of fear prevalent in T2. The EPM retest session is proposed as a tool for assessing the cognitive activity of rodents in the control of fear.
Imaging the neural basis of visuomotor actions using fMRI is a topic of increasing interest in the field of cognitive neuroscience. One challenge is to present realistic three-dimensional (3-D) stimuli in the subject's peripersonal space inside the MRI scanner. The stimulus generating apparatus must be compatible with strong magnetic fields and must not interfere with image acquisition. Virtual 3-D stimuli can be generated with a stereo image pair projected onto screens or via binocular goggles. Here, we describe designs and implementations for automatically presenting physical 3-D stimuli (point-light targets) in peripersonal and near-face space using fiber optics in the MRI scanner. The feasibility of fiber-optic based displays was demonstrated in two experiments. The first presented a point-light array along a slanted surface near the body, and the second presented multiple point-light targets around the face. Stimuli were presented using phase-encoded paradigms in both experiments. The results suggest that fiber-optic based displays can be a complementary approach for visual stimulus presentation in the MRI scanner.
The reliable identification of astrocytes for physiological measurements was always time-consuming and difficult. Recently, the fluorescent dye sulforhodamine 101 (SR101) was reported to label cortical glial cells in vivo [Nimmerjahn A, Kirchhoff F, Kerr JN, Helmchen F. Sulforhodamine 101 as a specific marker of astroglia in the neocortex in vivo. Nat Methods 2004;1:31-7]. We adapted this technique for use in acute rat hippocampal slices at early postnatal stages (P3, 7, 15) and in young adults (P24-27) and describe a procedure for double-labeling of SR101 and ion-selective dyes. Using whole-cell patch-clamp, imaging, and immunohistochemistry, we characterized the properties of SR101-positive versus SR101-negative cells in the stratum radiatum. Our data show that SR101, in contrast to Fura-2 or SBFI, only stains a subset of glial cells. Throughout development, SR101-positive and SR101-negative cells differ in their basic membrane properties. Furthermore, SR101-positive cells undergo a developmental switch from variably rectifying to passive between P3 and P15 and lack voltage-gated Na+ currents. At P15, the majority of SR101-positive cells is positive for GFAP. Thus, our data demonstrate that SR101 selectively labels a subpopulation of glial cells in early juvenile hippocampi that shows the typical developmental changes and characteristics of classical astrocytes. Owing to its reliability and uncomplicated handling, we expect that this technique will be helpful in future investigations studying astrocytes in the developing brain.
S100B expression, particularly extracellular S100B, is used as a parameter of glial activation and/or death in several situations of brain injury. Several immunoassays for S100B measurement are available, which differ with regard to specificity, sensitivity, sample application, and, of course, economic costs. We standardized two protocols for S100B measurement (range between 1.9pg and 10ng/mL) in human and rat samples from brain and adipose tissues, blood serum, cerebrospinal fluid, urine and cell culture. Abundance and secretion of this protein in adipose tissue reinforces the caution about its origin in blood serum. Interestingly, S100B recognition was affected by the redox status of the protein. This aspect should be considered in S100B measurement, assuming that oxidized and reduced forms possibly coexist in vivo and the equilibrium can be modified by oxidative stress of physiological or pathological conditions or even by obtaining sample conditions.
We have previously developed a solid-phase extraction (SPE) procedure to enable the detection of beta-amyloid (Abeta) peptides in brain tissue from non-transgenic animals. We have now adapted these methods to enrich the Abeta fraction in cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) and plasma. Human CSF and plasma and Tg2576 mouse plasma were subjected to guanidine denaturation followed by SPE in 96-well cassettes. The resulting eluates could be concentrated significantly to enhance detection of low-abundance Abeta peptides by immunoassay. The concentrated eluates diluted in a linear fashion with consistent recovery between SPE columns. This technique was therefore used to facilitate quantification of Abeta1-X, 1-40, 1-42, and 1-38 peptides in normal human CSF and plasma samples. SPE sample preparation was also applied to the plasma of mice dosed peripherally with a monoclonal antibody raised against Abeta. When such samples were assayed directly, the presence of the systemically administered antibody interfered with the subsequent immunoassay, by preventing detection of antibody-bound Abeta. After subjecting plasma from antibody-treated animals to denaturation and SPE, the antibody-antigen complex was disrupted, and the Abeta fraction could be isolated from the antibody-containing fraction. Application of this method allowed for detection of a 100-fold increase in plasma Abeta1-40 following treatment of Tg2576 mice or wild type littermate control mice with Abeta40-specific monoclonal antibody 9TL. Given the availability of a variety of SPE matrices, we hypothesize that these methods could facilitate plasma antigen retrieval using multiple therapeutic antibody approaches.
Non-human primates have a small but important role in basic and translational biomedical research, owing to similarities with human beings in physiology, cognitive capabilities, neuroanatomy, social complexity, reproduction, and development. Although non-human primates have contributed to many areas of biomedical research, we review here their unique contributions to work in neuroscience, and focus on four domains: Alzheimer's disease, neuroAIDS, Parkinson's disease, and stress. Our discussion includes, for example, the role of non-human primates in development of new treatments (eg, stem cells, gene transfer) before phase I clinical trials in patients; basic research on disease pathogenesis; and understanding neurobehavioural outcomes resulting from genotype-environment interactions.

Reading speed is an important outcome measure for many studies in neuroscience and psychology. Conventional reading speed tests have a limited corpus of sentences and usually require observers to read sentences aloud. Here we describe an automated sentence generator which can create over 100,000 unique sentences, scored using a true/false response. We propose that an estimate of the minimum exposure time required for observers to categorise the truth of such sentences is a good alternative to reading speed measures that guarantees comprehension of the printed material. Removing one word from the sentence reduces performance to chance, indicating minimal redundancy. Reading speed assessed using rapid serial visual presentation (RSVP) of these sentences is not statistically different from using MNREAD sentences. The automated sentence generator would be useful for measuring reading speed with button-press response (such as within MRI scanners) and for studies requiring many repeated measures of reading speed.
Metabolic brain abnormalities, as demonstrated by (1)H-magnetic resonance spectroscopy, are common occurrences in adult schizophrenia. As mice share important biochemical and genomic similarities with humans, we tested whether brain metabolic abnormalities also occur in a transgenic mouse model of schizophrenia. In vivo(1)H-magnetic resonance spectroscopy at 4.7T of the chakragati mouse brain revealed abnormalities in relative levels of choline and N-acetylaspartate compounds. These results are consistent with a prior proposal that deficits in metabolite ratios may be common features of psychotic disorders. Thus, chakragati mice recapitulate certain aspects of the human disease phenotype and further support the utility of this animal model for understanding causal factors underlying uniquely human brain diseases.
Adapting neurons at early stages of cortical visual processing to an oriented grating pattern suppresses responses to nearby orientations, causing a shift in the population response to subsequently viewed stimuli and an illusory distortion of perceived orientation: the classic tilt aftereffect. Perception of stimuli that are presented at unadapted spatial locations or that have a substantially different spatial frequency to the adapting stimulus remains veridical however by virtue of the fact that they stimulate a population of neurons distinct to those affected by adaptation. Here, we demonstrate that adapting to complex visual patterns containing circular or radial structure induces distortions of perceived orientation with markedly different characteristics to those traditionally reported. These novel effects occur in remote, unadapted spatial regions and are immune to manipulations of spatial frequency, rendering them incompatible with direct orientation-specific adaptation in early visual cortex. Rather, our results are most readily explained by a recurrent network in which global form encoding mechanisms that combine orientation information across space actively inhibit the local orientation detectors over which they pool.
This paper presents a computational investigation of the vicarious function in the motor cortex (c/o the ability to reorganise its functioning by virtue of a shift of the lost function in the surrounding cortex which becomes able to vicariate). Several experimental studies in animals and humans have shown that motor recovery after partial destruction of the motor cortex is based on adjacent motor reorganisation. This study provides phenomenological evidence of this vicarious function. We tested the hypothesis according to which the vicarious function is possible because there is a synaptic rearrangement of the weights (which are comparable to the synapses of the brain) of the lesioned layer (unmasking of previous silent synapses hypothesis), and our results confirm this hypothesis. We argue that functional recovery is possible only when having bidirectional connections and that it is facilitated when non-M1 areas can guide the layer to relearn the lost movement.
The response behaviors in many two-alternative choice tasks are well described by so-called sequential sampling models. In these models, the evidence for each one of the two alternatives accumulates over time until it reaches a threshold, at which point a response is made. At the neurophysiological level, single neuron data recorded while monkeys are engaged in two-alternative choice tasks are well described by winner-take-all network models in which the two choices are represented in the firing rates of separate populations of neurons. Here, we show that such nonlinear network models can generally be reduced to a one-dimensional nonlinear diffusion equation, which bears functional resemblance to standard sequential sampling models of behavior. This reduction gives the functional dependence of performance and reaction-times on external inputs in the original system, irrespective of the system details. What is more, the nonlinear diffusion equation can provide excellent fits to behavioral data from two-choice decision making tasks by varying these external inputs. This suggests that changes in behavior under various experimental conditions, e.g. changes in stimulus coherence or response deadline, are driven by internal modulation of afferent inputs to putative decision making circuits in the brain. For certain model systems one can analytically derive the nonlinear diffusion equation, thereby mapping the original system parameters onto the diffusion equation coefficients. Here, we illustrate this with three model systems including coupled rate equations and a network of spiking neurons.
Synapses on dendritic spines of pyramidal neurons show a remarkable ability to induce phosphorylation of transcription factors at the nuclear level with a short latency, incompatible with a diffusion process from the dendritic spines to the nucleus. To account for these findings, we formulated a novel extension of the classical cable theory by considering the fact that the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) is an effective charge separator, forming an intrinsic compartment that extends from the spine to the nuclear membrane. We use realistic parameters to show that an electrotonic signal may be transmitted along the ER from the dendritic spines to the nucleus. We found that this type of signal transduction can additionally account for the remarkable ability of the cell nucleus to differentiate between depolarizing synaptic signals that originate from the dendritic spines and back-propagating action potentials. This study considers a novel computational role for dendritic spines, and sheds new light on how spines and ER may jointly create an additional level of processing within the single neuron.
Stress might be one of the most salient intrinsic factors influencing the risk of stroke and its outcome. Previous studies have linked stress to increased infarct size and exaggerated cognitive deficits in rodent models of stroke. This study compares the effects of chronic restraint stress, representing a psychological stressor, prior to or after motor cortex devascularization lesion on motor recovery in rats. Daily testing in a skilled reaching task revealed initially exaggerated deficits in limb use caused by pre-lesion stress in the absence of increased infarct size. Both pre- and post-lesion stresses affected movement by delaying recovery and limiting compensation of lesion-induced deficits. Nevertheless, only rats that experienced post-lesion stress showed enlarged infarct size. This was accompanied by enlarged edema formation in the lesion hemisphere of post-stress animals on day 2 post-lesion. There were no significant differences in infarct size between post-lesion day 2 and day 15. The data demonstrate that both pre- and post-lesion chronic restraint stresses affect motor recovery after ischemic lesion. Lesion volume, however, is influenced by the timing of a stressful experience relative to the lesion. These findings suggest that stress represents a critical variable determining the outcome after stroke.
In the schedule-induced polydipsia model, hungry rats receiving a food pellet every minute will display excessive drinking behaviour (compulsive behaviour). We aimed 1) to evaluate if electrical stimulation in the nucleus accumbens (N ACC), the mediodorsal thalamic nucleus (MD) or the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis (BST) can decrease water intake in the schedule-induced polydipsia model; 2) to compare water intake between these groups for different stimulation amplitudes; and 3) to compare the effect of low frequency (2 Hz) with high frequency (100 Hz) stimulation. Rats were randomly divided into four groups: electrode implanted in the 1) N ACC (n=7), 2) MD (n=8), 3) BST (n=8), or 4) a sham-operated control group (n=7). Postoperatively, each rat of group 1, 2 and 3 was randomly tested in the model using pulses with a frequency of 2 Hz and 100 Hz, each at an amplitude of 0.1, 0.2, 0.3, 0.4 and 0.5 mA, or without stimulation. Group 4 was tested 11 times without stimulation. Each day the rats were tested in random order. High-frequency electrical stimulation in all three brain areas decreased water intake significantly at an amplitude of 0.2 mA or higher, however, without differences between the brain areas. Based on these results, we expect a decrease in compulsions in patients suffering from treatment-resistant obsessive-compulsive disorder during electrical stimulation in the N ACC, the MD and the BST. However, we foresee no difference in energy consumption to decrease symptoms during electrical stimulation between these brain areas.
Periventricular white matter injury (PVWMI) in premature babies is a major cause of cerebral palsy. Excitotoxic ibotenic acid (IBA) causes PVWMI-like lesions when injected into the white matter of neonatal rodents, however, whether it causes sensorimotor behavioural deficits that could also model cerebral palsy has not been tested. We compared IBA injection at postnatal day 7 (P7) when rodent development is equivalent to the stage of human corticospinal maturation vulnerable to PVWMI and P5 when rodent oligodendrocyte precursor cells are more vulnerable to excitotoxicity. IBA or saline were injected bilaterally into white matter between the external angle of the lateral ventricle and the forelimb sensorimotor cortex. By P14, IBA injection at P5 caused localised hypomyelination and cyst formation in this region, although cortical grey matter remained intact. Treatment at P7 produced less hypomyelination, but more widespread loss of neurofilament immunoreactivity. From P28 onwards, corticospinal function was assessed by testing reaching and retrieval of food rewards. All rats improved with age, but there was a consistent and significant difference between IBA treated rats (P5 and P7) and controls. Histological examination following testing revealed no difference in forebrain cross-sectional area but that the lateral ventricles were significantly larger in IBA treated animals than controls, especially at P7. P5 treatment caused a significantly reduced density of anti-myelin immunoreactivity in the corpus callosum compared to the anterior commissure that was not consistently seen following P7 treatment. We conclude that IBA induced lesions provide a satisfactory model of PVWMI, particularly when made at P5.
Vanilloid receptor 1 (VR1) is a noxious receptor and a novel target for pain therapy. Cochinchinenin B (6-hydroxy-7-methoxy-3-(4'-hydroxybenzyl) chromone; CB) is one of the small-molecular components from the flavonoids of Dragon's Blood, a well-known herbal medicine to treat various types of pain. Using whole-cell patch clamp technique, we found that capsaicin (CAP)-activated currents (ICAP) was inhibited by CB with an IC50 of 0.92 mM in acutely isolated rat dorsal root ganglion (DRG) neurons. The inhibition was reversible and not competitive. We also found that the inhibition was neither voltage- nor agonist-dependent. The bind site was on the extracellular part of the channel since intracellular application of CB did not alter the inhibition effect on ICAP. In addition, CB inhibited CAP-evoked depolarization under current-clamp condition. Our findings indicate that CB may be a candidate in developing new analgesic drugs targeting the VR1 receptor.
A serendipitous observation led to this study of V1 activity rebounds, which occur well after stimulus offset, and their relationship to visual aftereffects. We found that when a stimulus bar and background were simultaneously turned off, there was strong delayed rebounding activity (distinct from any off response). The neural rebound started 350-500 ms after stimulus offset, and its magnitude and duration were correlated with the prior visual response of the cell. In human psychophysical experiments, we found a delayed aftereffect that may be a perceptual correlate of the activity rebound. Both the rebound activity and the perceptual aftereffect disappeared if the stimulus bar and background were not extinguished together. The magnitude of the rebound varied with the spatial scale of the background even though background size had little effect on the visual response. It thus appeared that rebound magnitude was determined by a relatively large integration area. The aftereffect was not seen when the bar and background offsets were presented to different eyes, suggesting an early neural (monocular) basis for the aftereffect. Overall, we find a strong correlation between rebound activity and the perceived aftereffect. In addition to providing a possible explanation and neural correlate of a visual aftereffect, rebounding activity may provide new insight into the dynamics of early visual processing.
It is generally believed that the hippocampus is not required for simple discrimination learning. However, a small number of studies have shown that hippocampus damage impairs retention of a previously learned visual discrimination task. We propose that, although simple discrimination learning may proceed in the absence of the hippocampus, it plays an important role in this type of learning when it is intact. In order to test the role of the hippocampus in simple discrimination learning, we performed a series of experiments utilizing a two-choice picture discrimination task. Our experiments confirm that rats readily learn simple two-choice picture discriminations after hippocampus damage. However, if such discriminations are first learned while the hippocampus is intact, subsequent hippocampus damage causes severe retrograde amnesia for the discriminations. Furthermore, retrograde amnesia for simple picture discriminations was equally severe when the interval between training and damage was 1 d or 60 d; remote picture memories are not spared. Similarly, the rule or schema underlying a recently or remotely acquired picture discrimination learning set was lost after hippocampus damage. The severity of retrograde amnesia for simple picture discriminations is negatively correlated with the volume of spared hippocampus tissue. Thus, the hippocampus plays an essential role in long-term memories supporting simple picture discriminations.

Cortical pyramidal neurons alter their responses to input signals depending on behavioral state. We investigated whether changes in somatic inhibition contribute to these alterations. In layer 5 pyramidal neurons of rat visual cortex, repetitive firing from a depolarized membrane potential, which typically occurs during arousal, produced long-lasting depression of somatic inhibition. In contrast, slow membrane oscillations with firing in the depolarized phase, which typically occurs during slow-wave sleep, produced long-lasting potentiation. The depression is mediated by L-type Ca2+ channels and GABA(A) receptor endocytosis, whereas potentiation is mediated by R-type Ca2+ channels and receptor exocytosis. It is likely that the direction of modification is mainly dependent on the ratio of R- and L-type Ca2+ channel activation. Furthermore, somatic inhibition was stronger in slices prepared from rats during slow-wave sleep than arousal. This bidirectional modification of somatic inhibition may alter pyramidal neuron responsiveness in accordance with behavioral state.
Matrix metalloproteases (MMPs) play a role in remodeling the extracellular matrix during brain development and have been implicated in synaptic plasticity. Here, we report that a member of the neuronal pentraxin (NP) family, neuronal pentraxin receptor (NPR), undergoes regulated cleavage by the MMP tumor necrosis factor-alpha converting enzyme (TACE). NPR is enriched at excitatory synapses where it associates with AMPA-type glutamate receptors (AMPAR) and enhances synaptogenesis. However, in response to activation of group 1 mGluRs (mGluR1/5), TACE cleaves NPR and releases the pentraxin domain from its N-terminal transmembrane domain. Cleaved NPR rapidly accumulates in endosomes where it colocalizes with AMPAR. This process is necessary for mGluR1/5-dependent LTD in hippocampal and cerebellar synapses. These observations suggest that cleaved NPR functions to &quot;capture&quot; AMPAR for endocytosis and reveal a bifunctional role of NPs in both synapse strengthening and weakening.
Olfactory neurons project their axons to spatially invariant glomeruli in the olfactory bulb, forming an ordered pattern of innervation comprising the olfactory sensory map. A mirror symmetry exists within this map, such that neurons expressing a given receptor typically project to one glomerulus on the medial face and one glomerulus on the lateral face of the bulb. The mechanisms underlying an olfactory neuron's choice to project medially versus laterally remain largely unknown, however. Here we demonstrate that insulin-like growth factor (IGF) signaling is required for sensory innervation of the lateral olfactory bulb. Mutations that eliminate IGF signaling cause axons destined for targets in the lateral bulb to shift to ectopic sites on the ventral-medial surface. Using primary cultures of olfactory and cerebellar neurons, we further show that IGF is a chemoattractant for axon growth cones. Together these observations reveal a role of IGF signaling in sensory map formation and axon guidance.
Comprehensive behavioral analyses of transgenic and knockout mice have successfully identified the functional roles of many genes in the brain. Over the past 10 years, strategies for mouse behavioral phenotyping have evolved to maximize the scope and replicability of findings from a cohort of mutant mice, minimize the interpretation of procedural artifacts, and provide robust translational tools to test hypotheses and develop treatments. This Primer addresses experimental design issues and offers examples of high-throughput batteries, learning and memory tasks, and anxiety-related tests.
Depending on the arousal state, neuronal networks display discrete activity patterns that profoundly affect information processing in the brain. In this issue of Neuron, Kurotani et al. report bidirectional modification of inhibition by oscillatory patterns in the neocortex; a mechanism likely to control the impact of these neurons in a state-dependent fashion.
Baroreflex control of heart rate (HR) is impaired in diabetes mellitus. We hypothesized that diabetes mellitus induced functional changes of neural components at multiple sites within the baroreflex arc. Type 1 diabetic mice (OVE26) and FVB control mice were anesthetized. Baroreflex-mediated HR responses to sodium nitroprusside- (SNP) and phenylephrine- (PE) induced mean arterial blood pressure (MAP) changes were measured. Baroreceptor function was characterized by measuring the percent (%) change of baseline integrated aortic depressor nerve activity (Int ADNA) in response to SNP- and PE-induced MAP changes. The HR responses to electrical stimulation of the left aortic depressor nerve (ADN) and the right vagus nerve were assessed. Compared with FVB control mice, we found in OVE26 mice that (1) baroreflex-mediated bradycardia and tachycardia were significantly reduced. (2) The baroreceptor afferent function in response to MAP increase did not differ, as assessed by the parameters of the logistic function curve. But, the inhibition of Int ADNA in response to MAP decrease was significantly attenuated. (3) The maximum amplitude of bradycardic responses to right vagal efferent stimulation was augmented. (4) In contrast, the maximum amplitude of bradycardic responses to left ADN stimulation was decreased. Since Int ADNA was preserved in response to MAP increase and HR responses to vagal efferent stimulation were augmented, we conclude that a deficit of the central mediation of baroreflex HR contributes to the overall attenuation of baroreflex sensitivity in OVE26 mice. The successful conduction of physiological experiments on the ADN in OVE26 mice may provide a foundation for the understanding of cellular and molecular mechanisms of diabetes-induced cardiac neuropathy.
Reading the facial expression of other people is a fundamental skill for social interaction. Human facial expressions of emotions are readily recognized but may also evoke the same experiential emotional state in the observer. We used event-related functional magnetic resonance imaging and multi-channel electroencephalography to determine in 14 right-handed healthy volunteers (29+/-6 years) which brain structures mediate the perception of such a shared experiential emotional state. Statistical parametric mapping showed that an area in the dorsal medial frontal cortex was specifically activated during the perception of emotions that reflected the seen happy and sad emotional face expressions. This area mapped to the pre-supplementary motor area which plays a central role in control of behavior. Low resolution brain electromagnetic tomography-based analysis of the encephalographic data revealed that the activation was detected 100 ms after face presentation onset lasting until 740 ms. Our observation substantiates recently emerging evidence suggesting that the subjective perception of an experiential emotional state-empathy-is mediated by the involvement of the dorsal medial frontal cortex.
Although A-type potassium currents are found in type II hair cells in the inner ear of most species, the molecular mechanisms for activation and inactivation of the A-type potassium current (I(A)) remain unknown. In frog semicircular canal hair cells, for example, there appear to be two classes of currents having either fast or slow inactivation [Norris CH, Ricci AJ, Housley GD, Guth PS (1992) The inactivating potassium currents of hair cells isolated from the crista ampullaris of the frog. J Neurophysiol 68:1642-1653; Russo G, Calzi D, Martini M, Rossi ML, Fesce R, Prigioni I (2007) Potassium currents in the hair cells of vestibular epithelium: position-dependent expression of two types of A channels. Eur J Neurosci 25:695-704]. It has been suggested that somehow the &quot;ball and chain&quot; mechanism (NH(3) (N) terminus motif) is modified by alternative splicing to account for the two classes of inactivation. To examine other possibilities, we cloned alpha and beta subunits that comprise the A-type potassium channel complex in adult and embryonic pigeon brain, cochlea and labyrinth. By sequence homology, we concluded that the subunits present were Kvalpha1.4 and Kvbeta1.1. The sequence of the open reading frame for Kvalpha1.4 contained the N-terminus, pore and COOH (C) terminus motifs for N-and C-type inactivation. The sequence for Kvbeta1.1 displayed amino acids consistent with assembly and association with Kvalpha1.4 alpha subunits. Kvalpha1.4 and Kvbeta1.1 were transfected either singly or in combination into Chinese hamster ovary (CHO) cells. These cells and native hair cells from the pigeon utricle were patch clamped and the inactivation properties of the A-type current were studied. In the native hair cells, the A-type current was identified by its pharmacological (4-aminopyridine (4-AP); IC(50)=11 microM) and voltage dependent inactivation properties. A comparison of the mean time constants from best-fitted single exponential and sum of two exponential equations to the ionic current inactivation revealed the following. In CHO cells when Kvalpha1.4 was expressed alone, the mean time constant (tau(1)=107 ms+/-19, N=32) was significantly (P&lt;0.001) longer and the mean peak amplitude (2.28 nA+/-0.39, N=32) was smaller than when Kvalpha1.4 and Kvbeta1.1 were expressed in CHO cells. Moreover, the co-transfection of Kvalpha1.4 and Kvbeta1.1 into CHO cells caused a shift in the steady state inactivation curve parameter Vo 30 mV in the hyperpolarized direction relative to CHO cells expressing only Kvalpha1.4. Similarly, Kvalpha1.4-transfected CHO cells produced longer time constants and smaller amplitudes than those found for native utricular hair cells. These data lead us to conclude that while the amino acid motifs are present in Kvalpha1.4 and Kvbeta1.1 to suggest N-and C-type inactivation, co-assembly and association of Kvalpha1.4 and Kvbeta1.1 may also produce changes in the time dependent inactivation properties of vestibular hair cells.
Embryonic knockdown of candidate dyslexia susceptibility gene (CDSG) homologs in cerebral cortical progenitor cells in the rat results in acute disturbances of neocortical migration. In the current report we investigated the effects of embryonic knockdown and overexpression of the homolog of DCDC2, one of the CDSGs, on the postnatal organization of the cerebral cortex. Using a within-litter design, we transfected cells in rat embryo neocortical ventricular zone around embryonic day (E) 15 with either 1) small hairpin RNA (shRNA) vectors targeting Dcdc2, 2) a DCDC2 overexpression construct, 3) Dcdc2 shRNA along with DCDC2 overexpression construct, 4) an overexpression construct composed of the C terminal domain of DCDC2, or 5) an overexpression construct composed of the DCX terminal domain of DCDC2. RNAi of Dcdc2 resulted in pockets of heterotopic neurons in the periventricular region. Approximately 25% of the transfected brains had hippocampal pyramidal cell migration anomalies. Dcdc2 shRNA-transfected neurons migrated in a bimodal pattern, with approximately 7% of the neurons migrating a short distance from the ventricular zone, and another 30% migrating past their expected lamina. Rats transfected with Dcdc2 shRNA along with the DCDC2 overexpression construct rescued the periventricular heterotopia phenotype, but did not affect the percentage of transfected neurons that migrate past their expected laminar location. There were no malformations associated with any of the overexpression constructs, nor was there a significant laminar disruption of migration. These results support the claim that knockdown of Dcdc2 expression results in neuronal migration disorders similar to those seen in the brains of dyslexics.
An involvement of one particular neurotrophin, namely, the brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF), has been demonstrated in the pathophysiology Huntington's disease. Type-1 cannabinoid (CB1) receptor has been postulated to upregulate BDNF gene transcription. To better understand the relationship between CB1 and BDNF levels in a situation where the striatum is degenerating, we studied, by dual label immunofluorescence, the distribution of CB1 and BDNF in cortical neurons projecting to the striatum in our rat quinolinic acid model of striatal excitotoxicity. We completed our study with quantitative analyses of BDNF protein levels and CB1 binding activity in the cortex. We show that, 2 weeks post lesion, cortical neurons contain more BDNF compared with controls and to earlier time points. Such BDNF up-regulation coincides with a higher binding activity and an increased protein expression of CB1. We suggest that after excitotoxic lesions, CB1 might, at least transiently, upregulate BDNF in the attempt to rescue striatal neurons from degeneration.
Transplantation of bone marrow stromal cells (BMSCs) improves animal neurological functional recovery after stroke. To obtain insight into the mechanisms underlying the therapeutic benefit, we directed our attention to the interaction of BMSCs with astrocytes. Astrocytes become reactive (astrogliosis) after a brain injury, such as stroke. Astrogliosis plays both beneficial and detrimental roles in brain recovery. Previously, we have shown that administration of BMSCs to animals with stroke significantly reduces the thickness of the scar wall formed by reactive astrocytes. We tested the influence of mouse bone marrow stromal cell (mBMSC) on astrogliosis under oxygen-glucose deprivation (OGD)/reoxygenation conditions in vitro, employing an anaerobic chamber. Our data indicate that mBMSCs down-regulate glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) expression in astrocytes after 2 h of OGD and an additional 16 h reoxygenation. mBMSCs protected astrocytes from ischemia, maintaining morphological integrity and proliferation. The IL-6/IL-6R/gp130 pathway is associated with astrogliosis in response to CNS (disorders. Therefore, we examined the effects of mBMSC on the IL-6/IL-6R/gp130 pathway as an underlying mechanism of mBMSC-altered astrogliosis. Furthermore, IL-6 siRNA was used to block IL-6 expression in astrocytes to further investigate IL-6 involvement in mBMSC-altered astrogliosis. Our results indicate that the mBMSC-conferred decline of astrogliosis post-ischemia may derive from the down-regulation of the IL-6/IL-6R/gp130 pathway.
This study aimed to clarify changes in the spatial expressions of types 1, 2 and 3 ryanodine receptors (RyR1, RyR2 and RyR3) in the cerebellum of a Ca(2+) channel alpha(1A) subunit mutant, rolling mouse Nagoya. Semi-quantitative reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) revealed that the mRNA signal levels of RyR1 and RyR3 were altered in the rolling cerebellum, which exhibited lower densities of RyR1 bands and higher densities of RyR3 bands than in the control cerebellum. Quite consistent with the RT-PCR results, the staining intensity of RyR1 and RyR3 was altered in the rolling cerebellum. RyR1 immunostaining appeared in somata and the proximal dendrites of Purkinje cells, and the staining intensity of both subcellular regions was equally lower in all cerebellar lobules of rolling mice than in those of controls. Although RyR3 immunostaining appeared in the dendrites of granule cells, more intense RyR3 staining in rolling mice than in controls was uniformly observed throughout all cerebellar lobules. The present study further examined co-localizations of ryanodine receptor subtypes and voltage-gated Ca(2+) channel alpha(1) subunits in the rolling cerebellum. Somatodendritic RyR1 immunostaining in Purkinje cells overlapped with either a mutated Ca(2+) channel alpha(1A) subunit (P/Q-type), or a Ca(2+) channel alpha(1C) subunit (L-type; dihydropyridine receptor) immunostaining. Immunostaining of these alpha(1) subunits also emerged in granule cells. Those results suggest non-region-related alterations in RyR1 and RyR3 expressions in the rolling mouse cerebellum. Such expressional changes in ryanodine receptor subtypes may be involved in Ca(2+) channel alpha(1A) subunit gene mutation, and may alter regulation of intracellular Ca(2+) concentrations in cerebellar cortical neurons.
Interleukin-6 (IL-6) is a pleiotropic cytokine synthesized by many different cells after appropriate stimulation. IL-6 binds first to the interleukin-6 receptor alpha (IL6-Ralpha) and then this complex binds to the signal-transducing gp130 receptor, forming a functional hexameric receptor complex. We observed by Western blot analysis with anti-IL6-Ralpha two bands of approximately 80 kDa and approximately 110 kDa in the rat sciatic nerve, cerebral cortex, spleen, pancreas and liver, corresponding to the mature glycosylated form and possibly to the dimer of the non-glycosylated precursor protein. By immunohistochemistry, high levels of IL6-Ralpha expression are observed in non-myelinating Schwann cells. In myelinating Schwann cells IL6-Ralpha is present as discrete dots in the perinuclear region, in distinct membrane domains of the Schwann cell sheath and at the nodes of Ranvier, suggesting that IL6-Ralpha is clustered both on the axonal side of the node and within the Schwann cells. After sciatic nerve crush injury IL6-Ralpha is upregulated in denervated Schwann cells between the myelin ovoids during the period of Schwann cell proliferation. The expression of IL6-Ralpha continues during the period of remyelination, suggesting that IL6-Ralpha might be involved in both Schwann cell proliferation and remyelination of the rat sciatic nerve.
Alcohol abuse is associated with sleep problems, which are often linked to circadian rhythm disturbances. However, there is no information on the direct effects of ethanol on the mammalian circadian clock. Acute ethanol inhibits glutamate signaling, which is the primary mechanism through which light resets the mammalian clock in the suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN). Glutamate and light also inhibit circadian clock resetting induced by nonphotic signals, including 5-HT. Thus, we investigated the effects of acute ethanol on both glutamatergic and serotoninergic resetting of the mouse SCN clock in vitro. We show that ethanol dose-dependently inhibits glutamate-induced phase shifts and enhances serotonergic phase shifts. The inhibition of glutamate-induced phase shifts is not affected by excess glutamate, glycine or d-serine, but is prevented by excess brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF). BDNF is known to augment glutamate signaling in the SCN and to be necessary for glutamate/light-induced phase shifts. Thus, ethanol may inhibit glutamate-induced clock resetting at least in part by blocking BDNF enhancement of glutamate signaling. Ethanol enhancement of serotonergic phase shifts is mimicked by treatments that suppress glutamate signaling in the SCN, including antagonists of glutamate receptors, BDNF signaling and nitric oxide synthase. The combined effect of ethanol with these treatments is not additive, suggesting they act through a common pathway. Our data indicate further that the interaction between 5-HT and glutamate in the SCN may occur downstream from nitric oxide synthase activation. Thus, acute ethanol disrupts normal circadian clock phase regulation, which could contribute to the physiological and psychological problems associated with alcohol abuse.
3,4-Methylenedioxymethamphetamine (MDMA or ecstasy) stimulates the transporter-mediated release of monoamines, including 5-HT. High-dose exposure to MDMA causes persistent 5-HT deficits (e.g. depletion of brain 5-HT) in animals, yet the functional and clinical relevance of such deficits are poorly defined. Here we examine functional consequences of MDMA-induced 5-HT depletions in rats. Male rats received binges of three i.p. injections of MDMA or saline, one injection every 2 h; MDMA was given at a threshold pharmacological dose (1.5 mg/kgx3, low dose) or at a fivefold higher amount (7.5 mg/kgx3, high dose). One week later, jugular catheters and intracerebral guide cannulae were implanted. Two weeks after binges, rats received acute i.v. challenge injections of 1 and 3 mg/kg MDMA. Neuroendocrine effects evoked by i.v. MDMA (prolactin and corticosterone secretion) were assessed via serial blood sampling, while neurochemical effects (5-HT and dopamine release) were assessed via microdialysis in brain. MDMA binges elevated core temperatures only in the high-dose group, with these same rats exhibiting approximately 50% loss of forebrain 5-HT 2 weeks later. Prior exposure to MDMA did not alter baseline plasma hormones or dialysate monoamines, and effects of i.v. MDMA were similar in saline and low-dose groups. By contrast, rats pretreated with high-dose MDMA displayed significant reductions in evoked hormone secretion and 5-HT release when challenged with i.v. MDMA. As tolerance developed only in rats exposed to high-dose binges, hyperthermia and 5-HT depletion are implicated in this phenomenon. Our results suggest that MDMA tolerance in humans may reflect 5-HT deficits which could contribute to further dose escalation.
A unique sensitivity to specific biochemical processes is responsible for selective vulnerability of midbrain dopamine neurons in several diseases. Prior studies have shown these neurons are susceptible to energy failure and mitochondrial dysfunction, oxidative stress, and impaired disposal of misfolded proteins. These neurons also are especially vulnerable to the loss of purine recycling. In the brains of humans or mice with inherited defects of the purine recycling enzyme hypoxanthine-guanine phosphoribosyltransferase (HPRT), the most prominent defect is loss of basal ganglia dopamine. To investigate the nature of the relationship between HPRT deficiency and dopamine, the mouse MN9D dopaminergic neuronal cell line was used to prepare 10 sublines lacking HPRT. The mutant sublines grew more slowly than the parent line, but without morphological signs of impaired viability. As a group, the mutant sublines had significantly lower dopamine than the parent line. The loss of dopamine in the mutants did not reflect impaired energy status, as judged by ATP levels or vulnerability to inhibitors of energy production. Indeed, the mutant lines as a group appeared energetically more robust than the parent line. The loss of dopamine also was not accompanied by enhanced susceptibility to oxidative stress or proteasome inhibitors. Instead, the loss of dopamine reflected only one aspect of a broad change in the molecular phenotype of the cells affecting mRNAs encoding tyrosine hydroxylase, the dopamine transporter, the vesicular monoamine transporter, monoamine oxidase B, catechol-O-methyltransferase, and GTP-cyclohydrolase. These changes were selective for the dopamine phenotype, since multiple control mRNAs were normal. These studies suggest purine recycling is an intrinsic metabolic process of particular importance to the molecular phenotype of dopaminergic neurons independent of previously established mechanisms involving energy failure, oxidative stress, or proteasome dysfunction.
Receptor protein tyrosine phosphatases (RPTPs) appear to coordinate many aspects of neural development, including cell proliferation, migration and differentiation. Here we investigated potential roles of RPTPs in the developing mouse retina. Using a degenerate oligonucleotide-based reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction approach, we identified 11 different RPTPs in the retina at embryonic stage 13 (E13). Subsequently, the expression patterns of RPTPkappa, RPTPJ, RPTPRR, RPTPsigma, RPTPepsilon and RPTPgamma in the retina from embryonic stages to adult were analyzed in detail using quantitative real-time-PCR, in situ hybridization, immunohistochemistry and Western blotting. At E13, all six RPTPs are expressed in actively cycling retinal progenitor cells and postmitotic newborn retinal neurons. With ongoing maturation, RPTPkappa, RPTPJ, RPTPRR, RPTPsigma, RPTPepsilon and RPTPgamma display a different spatiotemporal regulation of mRNAs and proteins in the pre- and postnatal retina. Finally, in adulthood these six RPTPs localize to distinct cellular compartments of multiple retinal neurons. Additional studies in RPTPgamma(-/-) and RPTPbeta/zeta(-/-) (also known as PTPRZ1, RPTPbeta or RPTPzeta) mice at postnatal stage P1 reveal no apparent differences in retinal laminar organization or in the expression pattern of specific retinal cell-type markers when compared with wild type. However, in RPTPbeta/zeta(-/-) retinas, immunoreactivity of vimentin, a marker of Mller glial cells, is selectively reduced and the morphology of vimentin-immunoreactive radial processes of Mller cells is considerably disturbed. Our results suggest distinct roles of RPTPs in cell proliferation and establishing phenotypes of different retinal cells during retinogenesis as well as later in the maintenance of mature retina.
Finely myelinated (type Adelta) and unmyelinated (type C) fibers are the major afferent inputs to spinothalamic tract neurons mediating sensory and reflex responses to noxious and thermal stimuli. These two fiber types differ in their sensory and biophysical properties, raising questions about the interaction of their supraspinal responses. Therefore, we investigated the interaction of cortical responses to stimuli that preferentially excite these fibers in human subjects using evoked potential recordings in a paired conditioning stimulation (CS) and test stimulation (TS) paradigm. There were two experiments, one with Adelta as CS and C as TS (Adelta-C) and another with these stimuli reversed (C-Adelta). We used intra-epidermal electrical pulses applied to the dorsal left hand at 2x and 1x pinprick threshold (pp) for the preferential stimulation of Adelta fibers and 37-50 degrees C contact heat pulses applied to the left or right thenar and left hypothenar eminences for the preferential stimulation of C fibers. We found that the cortical response to preferential Adelta or C fiber stimulation was attenuated whenever either cortical response preceded the other. Standardized values of peak and integrated amplitudes were &lt;1 in all pairing conditions and in all subjects in both experiments. The suppressive effect varied in magnitude with the intensity of the conditioning stimulus in both Adelta-C and C-Adelta experiments. Furthermore, intra-segmental interaction was differentially effective for Adelta conditioning (peak amplitude, P&lt;0.008; analysis of variance). Our experiments provide the first neurophysiological evidence for a somatotopically distributed, mutually suppressive interaction between cortical responses to preferentially activated Adelta and C afferents in humans. This suppressive interaction of cortical responses suggests contrasting and possibly mutually exclusive sensorimotor functions mediated through the Adelta and C fiber afferent channels.
The amygdala modulates memory consolidation with the storage of emotionally relevant information and plays a critical role in fear and anxiety. We examined changes in neuronal morphology and neurotransmitter content in the amygdala of rats exposed to a single prolonged stress (SPS) as a putative animal model for human post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD). Rats were perfused 7 days after SPS, and intracellular injections of Lucifer Yellow were administered to neurons of the basolateral (BLA) and central amygdala (CeA) to analyze morphological changes at the cellular level. A significant increase of dendritic arborization in BLA pyramidal neurons was observed, but there was no effect on CeA neurons. Neuropeptide Y (NPY) was abundant in BLA under normal conditions. The local concentration and number of immunoreactive fibers of NPY in the BLA of SPS-exposed rats were increased compared with the control. No differences were observed in this regard in the CeA. Double immunostaining by fluorescence and electron microscopy revealed that NPY immunoreactive terminals were closely associated with calcium/calmodulin II-dependent protein kinase (CaMKII: a marker for pyramidal neurons)-positive neurons in the BLA, which were immunopositive to glucocorticoid receptor (GR) and mineralocorticoid receptor (MR). SPS had no significant effect on the expression of CaMKII and MR/GR expression in the BLA. Based on these findings, we suggest that changes in the morphology of pyramidal neurons in the BLA by SPS could be mediated through the enhancement of NPY functions, and this structural plasticity in the amygdala provides a cellular and molecular basis to understand for affective disorders.
It is well known that noradrenergic locus coeruleus neurons decrease their activity during slow wave sleep and are quiescent during paradoxical sleep. It was recently proposed that their inactivation during paradoxical sleep is due to a tonic GABAergic inhibition arising from neurons located into the dorsal paragigantocellular reticular nucleus (DPGi). However, the discharge profile of DPGi neurons across the sleep-waking cycle as well as their connections with brain areas involved in paradoxical sleep regulation remain to be described. Here we show, for the first time in the unanesthetized rat that the DPGi contained a subtype of neurons with a tonic and sustained firing activation specifically during paradoxical sleep (PS-on neurons). Noteworthy, their firing rate increase anticipated for few seconds the beginning of the paradoxical sleep bout. By using anterograde tract-tracing, we further showed that the DPGi, in addition to locus coeruleus, directly projected to other areas containing wake-promoting neurons such as the serotonergic neurons of the dorsal raphe nucleus and hypocretinergic neurons of the posterior hypothalamus. Finally, the DPGi sent efferents to the ventrolateral part of the periaqueductal gray matter known to contain paradoxical sleep-suppressing neurons. Taken together, our original results suggest that the PS-on neurons of the DPGi may have their major role in simultaneous inhibitory control over the wake-promoting neurons and the permissive ventrolateral part of the periaqueductal gray matter as a means of influencing vigilance states and especially PS generation.
Cannabinoid receptor activation has been shown to modulate both neurotransmission (CB(1)) and neuroinflammatory (CB(2)) responses. There are conflicting reports in the literature describing the influence of cannabinoid receptor activation on ischemic/reperfusion injury. The goal of this study was to evaluate how changing the balance between CB(1) and CB(2) activation following cerebral ischemia influences outcome. CB(1) and CB(2) expression were tested at different times after transient middle cerebral artery occlusion (MCAO) in mice by real-time RT-PCR. Animals subjected to 1 h MCAO were randomly assigned to receive different treatments: a CB(1) antagonist, a CB(2) antagonist, a CB(2) agonist, a CB(1) antagonist plus CB(2) agonist, a CB(2) antagonist plus CB(2) agonist or an equal volume of vehicle as control. Cerebral blood flow was continuously monitored during ischemia; cerebral infarction and neurological deficit were tested 24 h after MCAO. Cerebral CB(1) and CB(2) mRNA expression undertook dynamic changes during cerebral ischemia. The selective CB(1) antagonist significantly decreased cerebral infarction by 47%; the selective CB(2) antagonist increased infarction by 26% after 1 h MCAO followed by 23 h reperfusion in mice. The most striking changes were obtained by combining a CB(1) antagonist with a CB(2) agonist. This combination elevated the cerebral blood flow during ischemia and reduced infarction by 75%. In conclusion, during cerebral ischemia/reperfusion injury, inhibition of CB(1) receptor activation is protective while inhibition of CB(2) receptor activation is detrimental. The greatest degree of neuroprotection was obtained by combining an inhibitor of CB(1) activation with an exogenous CB(2) agonist.
Research into the underlying mechanisms of cognitive dysfunction in Alzheimer's disease (AD) has relied traditionally on tasks such as the water maze which evaluate spatial learning and memory. Since non-spatial forms of memory are also disrupted by AD, it is critical to establish other paradigms capable of investigating these deficits. Utilizing a non-spatial learning task, acquisition of conditioned taste aversion (CTA) was evaluated in a mouse model of AD. This line of transgenic mice encode a mutated allele of the human amyloid precursor protein (APP) and presenilin 1 (PS1) genes and exhibit extensive amyloid plaque deposition in the brain by 6-7 mo of age. Compared with wild-type mice, 10-17 month old APP/PS1 mice failed to acquire CTA to saccharin. Mice that only possessed one of the two mutations were able to acquire CTA to the saccharin. In 2-5 month old APP/PS1 mice acquisition of CTA was disrupted despite the lack of extensive plaque deposition. However, further analysis indicated a potential gender difference in both the CTA deficit and onset of plaque deposition with females showing greater conditioned aversion.
A depth electrode-brain interface (EBI) is formed once electrodes are implanted into the human brain. We investigated the impact of the EBI on the crossing electric currents during both deep brain recording (DBR) and deep brain stimulation (DBS) over the acute, chronic and transitional stages post-implantation, in order to investigate and quantify the effect which changes at the EBI have on both DBR and DBS. We combined two complementary methods: (1) physiological recording of local field potentials via the implanted electrode in patients; and (2) computational simulations of an EBI model. Our depth recordings revealed that the physiological modulation of the EBI in the acute stage via brain pulsation selectively affected the crossing neural signals in a frequency-dependent manner, as the amplitude of the electrode potential was inversely correlated with that of the tremor-related oscillation, but not the beta oscillation. Computational simulations of DBS during the transitional period showed that the shielding effect of partial giant cell growth on the injected current could shape the field in an unpredictable manner. These results quantitatively demonstrated that physiological modulation of the EBI significantly affected the crossing currents in both DBR and DBS. Studying the microenvironment of the EBI may be a key step in investigating the mechanisms of DBR and DBS, as well as brain-computer interactions in general.
Migrating neuroblasts in the adult brain form the rostral migratory stream (RMS) from the lateral ventricle to the olfactory bulb (OB) and then differentiate in the OB. In this study, we immunohistochemically analyzed drebrin expression in the RMS of the adult rat brain. Although drebrin is concentrated in dendritic spines of mature neurons, drebrin-immunopositive (DIP) cell bodies were observed in the RMS. The polysialated form of a neural cell adhesion molecule (PSA-NCAM) was detected in DIP cells. K(i)-67, a marker of proliferating cells, was also detected in a subset of DIP cells; however, neither glial fibrillary acidic protein, nestin nor vimentin was detected in DIP cells. These results indicate that DIP cells in the RMS are migrating neuroblasts. An image subtraction method, based on using anti-pan-drebrin and anti-drebrin A antibodies, demonstrated that DIP migrating neuroblasts are immunopositive for drebrin E but not for drebrin A (E+A-). Furthermore, olfactory bulbectomy increased the number of cells with drebrin E+A- signals in the RMS, indicating that these cells migrate along the RMS. Drebrin E+A- cells were also found in the subgranular layer of the dentate gyrus and in the piriform cortex. Thus, detection of drebrin E+A- signals is useful for identifying migrating neuroblasts in the adult brain. In the OB, drebrin E+A- signals were observed in the cell bodies of migrating neuroblasts in the core region; however, only fibrous and punctate drebrin E+A- signals were observed in postmigratory neuroblasts at the outer layers. These data demonstrate that the disappearance of drebrin E+A- signals from the cell body coincides with the cessation of neuronal migration. The disappearance of drebrin E from the cell body may be a molecular switch for the cessation of migration in newly generated neuroblasts.
We determined the nervous system targeting of interferon-beta1b (IFN-beta1b), a 20 kDa protein used to treat the relapsing-remitting form of multiple sclerosis, following intranasal administration in anesthetized, adult cynomolgus monkeys. Five animals received an intranasal bolus of [(125)I]-labeled IFN-beta1b, applied bilaterally to the upper nasal passages. Serial blood samples were collected for 45 min, after which the animals were euthanized by transcardial perfusion-fixation. High resolution phosphor imaging of tissue sections and gamma counting of microdissected tissue were used to obtain the distribution and concentration profiles of [(125)I]-IFN-beta1b in central and peripheral tissues. Intranasal administration resulted in rapid, widespread targeting of nervous tissue. The olfactory bulbs and trigeminal nerve exhibited [(125)I]-IFN-beta1b levels significantly greater than in peripheral organs and at least one order of magnitude higher than any other nervous tissue area sampled. The basal ganglia exhibited highest [(125)I]-IFN-beta1b levels among CNS regions other than the olfactory bulbs. Preferential IFN-beta1b distribution to the primate basal ganglia is a new finding of possible clinical importance. Our study suggests both IFN-beta and IFN-alpha, which share the same receptor, may be bound with relatively high affinity in these structures, possibly offering new insight into a neurovegetative syndrome induced by IFN-alpha therapy and suspected to involve altered dopamine neurotransmission in the basal ganglia. Most importantly, our results suggest intranasally applied macromolecules may bypass the blood-brain barrier and rapidly enter the primate CNS along olfactory- and trigeminal-associated extracellular pathways, as shown previously in the rat. This is the first study to finely detail the central distribution of a labeled protein after intranasal administration in non-human primates.
The ability of vaginocervical stimulation (VCS) to promote olfactory social recognition memory at different stages of the ovarian cycle was investigated in female rats. A juvenile social recognition paradigm was used and memory retention tested at 30 and 300 min after an adult was exposed to a juvenile during three 4-min trials. Results showed that an intact social recognition memory was present at 30 min in animals with or without VCS and at all stages of the estrus cycle. However, whereas no animals in any stage of the estrus cycle showed retention of the specific recognition memory at 300 min, those in the proestrus/estrus phase that received VCS 10 min before the trial started did. In vivo microdialysis studies showed that there was a significant release of oxytocin after VCS in the olfactory bulb during proestrus. There was also increased oxytocin immunoreactivity within the olfactory bulb after VCS in proestrus animals compared with diestrus ones. Furthermore, when animals received an infusion of an oxytocin antagonist directly into the olfactory bulb, or a systemic administration of alpha or beta noradrenaline-antagonists, they failed to show evidence for maintenance of a selective olfactory recognition memory at 300 min. Animals with vagus or pelvic nerve section also showed no memory retention when tested after 300 min. These results suggest that VCS releases oxytocin in the olfactory bulb to enhance the social recognition memory and that this may be due to modulatory actions on noradrenaline release. The vagus and pelvic nerves are responsible for carrying the information from the pelvic area to the CNS.
In the present study, we examined the neural mechanisms underlying cross-modal working memory by analyzing scalp-recorded event-related potentials (ERPs) from normal human subjects performing tactile-tactile unimodal or tactile-auditory cross-modal delay tasks that consisted of stimulus-1 (S-1, tactile), interval (delay), and stimulus-2 (S-2, tactile or auditory). We hypothesized that there would be sequentially discrete task-correlated changes in ERPs representing neural processes of tactile working memory, and in addition, significant differences would be observed in ERPs between the unimodal task and the cross-modal task. In comparison to the ERP components in the unimodal task, two late positive ERP components (LPC-1 and LPC-2) evoked by the tactile S-1 in the delay of the cross-modal task were enhanced by expectation of the associated auditory S-2 presented at the end of the delay. Such enhancement might represent neural activities involved in cross-modal association between the tactile stimulus and the auditory stimulus. Later in the delay, a late negative component (LNC) was observed. The amplitude of LNC depended on information retained during the delay, and when the same information was retained, this amplitude was not influenced by modality or location of S-2 (auditory S-2 through headphones, or tactile S-2 on the left index finger). LNC might represent the neural activity involved in working memory. The above results suggest that the sequential ERP changes in the present study represent temporally distinguishable neural processes, such as the cross-modal association and cross-modal working memory.
The intracochlear infusion of neurotrophic factors via a mini-osmotic pump has been shown to prevent deafness-induced spiral ganglion neuron (SGN) degeneration; however, the use of pumps may increase the incidence of infection within the cochlea, making this technique unsuitable for neurotrophin administration in a clinical setting. Cell- and gene-based therapies are potential therapeutic options. This study investigated whether Schwann cells which were genetically modified to over-express the neurotrophins brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) or neurotrophin 3 (Ntf3, formerly NT-3) could support SGN survival in an in vitro model of deafness. Co-culture of either BDNF over-expressing Schwann cells or Ntf3 over-expressing Schwann cells with SGNs from early postnatal rats significantly enhanced neuronal survival in comparison to both control Schwann cells and conventional recombinant neurotrophin proteins. Transplantation of neurotrophin over-expressing Schwann cells into the cochlea may provide an alternative means of delivering neurotrophic factors to the deaf cochlea for therapeutic purposes.
Alterations in the brain that contribute to the development of epilepsy, also called epileptogenesis, are not well understood, which makes it difficult to develop strategies for preventing epilepsy. Here we have studied the role of the CRE binding transcription factors, cyclic-AMP responsive element modulator (CREM) and inducible cyclic-AMP early repressor (ICER), in the development of epilepsy following pilocarpine induced status epilepticus (SE) in mice. Following SE, ICER mRNA and protein are increased in neurons. The increase in ICER, however, is not necessary for neuronal injury following SE as pilocarpine treatment induces equivalent neuronal injury in pyramidal neurons of wild type and CREM/ICER null mice. Following SE, the CREM/ICER null mice develop a more severe epileptic phenotype experiencing approximately threefold more frequent spontaneous seizures. Together these data suggest that the increase in ICER mRNA following SE may have a role in suppressing the severity of epilepsy.
Human studies have shown that a reduction of 5-HT transporter (SERT) increases the vulnerability for anxiety and depression. Moreover, women are more vulnerable to develop depression and anxiety disorders than men. For that reason we hypothesized that homozygous 5-HT transporter knockout rat (SERT(-/-)) models, especially female, are valuable and reliable animal models for humans with an increased vulnerability for anxiety- and depression-related disorders. As rats are extensively used in neuroscience research, we used the unique 5-HT transporter knockout rat, that was recently generated using N-ethyl-N-nitrosurea (ENU) -driven mutagenesis, to test this hypothesis. Behavioral testing revealed that male and female SERT(-/-) rats spent less time in the center of the open field and spent less time on the open arm of the elevated plus maze compared with wild-type 5-HT transporter knockout rats (SERT(+/+)). In the novelty suppressed feeding test, only male SERT(-/-) rats showed a higher latency before starting to eat in a bright novel arena compared with SERT(+/+) controls. Both male and female SERT(-/-) rats showed a higher escape latency from their home cage than SERT(+/+) littermates. Moreover, SERT(-/-) rats were less mobile in the forced swim test, and sucrose consumption was reduced in SERT(-/-) rats relative to SERT(+/+) rats. Both effects were sex-independent. Neurochemically, basal extracellular 5-HT levels were elevated to a similar extent in male and female SERT(-/-) rats, which was not influenced by the selective 5-HT reuptake inhibitor citalopram. 5-HT immunostaining revealed no difference between SERT(+/+) and SERT(-/-) rats in the dorsal raphe nuclei, in both males and females. These findings demonstrate that SERT(-/-) rats show anxiety and depression-related behavior, independent of sex. Genetic inactivation of the SERT has apparently such a great impact on behavior, that hardly any differences are found between male and female rats. This knockout rat model may provide a valuable model to study anxiety- and depression-related disorders in male and female rats.
Mood disorders are the most common psychiatric disorders. Although the mechanisms implicated in the genesis of mood disorders are still unclear, stress is known to predispose to depression, and recently, studies have related hippocampal neurogenesis and apoptosis to depression. In the present study we first examined the balance between cell birth-death in the hippocampus and subventricular zone (SVZ) of pre-pubertal and adult rats subjected to chronic-mild-stress (CMS). CMS led to increased corticosterone secretion and induced depressive-like symptoms (assessed in the forced-swimming test); these endocrine and behavioral effects were paralleled by decreased hippocampal, but not SVZ, cell proliferation/differentiation and by increased apoptotic rate. In order to determine if lithium, a known mood stabilizer with antidepressant properties, could prevent the stress-induced events, we analyzed the same parameters in a group of rats treated with lithium during the stress exposure period (CMS+Li) and observed that the hormonal, behavioral and cell turnover effects of CMS were abrogated in these animals. Subsequently, to search for possible pathways through which CMS and lithium influence behavior, cell fate and synaptic plasticity, we analyzed the expression of glycogen-synthase-kinase-3beta (GSK-3beta), as well as some of its downstream targets (B-cell-CLL/lymphoma2-associated athanonege (BAG-1) and synapsin-I). CMS increased GSK-3beta and decreased synapsin-I and BAG-1 expression in the hippocampus. Interestingly, co-administration of lithium precluded the CMS-induced effects in GSK-3beta, synapsin-I and BAG-1 expression. Our observation that specific inhibition of this kinase with AR-A014418 blocked the effects of CMS in depressive-like behavior and in BAG-1 and synapsin-I expression confirmed the involvement of the GSK-3beta pathway in stress-induced effects. In summary, these results reveal that lithium, by regulating the activity of GSK-3beta, prevents the deleterious effects of stress on behavior and cellular functions.

Soluble amyloid-beta (Abeta) peptide is likely to play a key role during early stages of Alzheimer's disease (AD) by perturbing synaptic function and cognitive processes. Receptor for advanced glycation end products (RAGE) has been identified as a receptor involved in Abeta-induced neuronal dysfunction. We investigated the role of neuronal RAGE in Abeta-induced synaptic dysfunction in the entorhinal cortex, an area of the brain important in memory processes that is affected early in AD. We found that soluble oligomeric Abeta peptide (Abeta42) blocked long-term potentiation (LTP), but did not affect long-term depression, paired-pulse facilitation, or basal synaptic transmission. In contrast, Abeta did not inhibit LTP in slices from RAGE-null mutant mice or in slices from wild-type mice treated with anti-RAGE IgG. Similarly, transgenic mice expressing a dominant-negative form of RAGE targeted to neurons showed normal LTP in the presence of Abeta, suggesting that neuronal RAGE functions as a signal transducer for Abeta-mediated LTP impairment. To investigate intracellular pathway transducing RAGE activation by Abeta, we used inhibitors of stress activated kinases. We found that inhibiting p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase (p38 MAPK), but not blocking c-Jun N-terminal kinase activation, was capable of maintaining LTP in Abeta-treated slices. Moreover, Abeta-mediated enhancement of p38 MAPK phosphorylation in cortical neurons was reduced by blocking antibodies to RAGE. Together, our results indicate that Abeta impairs LTP in the entorhinal cortex through neuronal RAGE-mediated activation of p38 MAPK.
We examined the possibility of a differential spatial control in the endogenous production of 3alpha5alpha-reduced steroids and its consequences on GABA(A) receptor-mediated miniature IPSCs (mIPSCs) in laminas II and III-IV of the rat spinal cord dorsal horn (DH). Early in postnatal development [younger than postnatal day 8 (P8)], mIPSCs displayed slow decay kinetics in laminas II and III-IV resulting from a continuous local production of 3alpha5alpha-reduced steroids. This was mediated by the tonic activity of the translocator protein of 18 kDa (TSPO), which controls neurosteroid synthesis by regulating the transport of cholesterol across the mitochondrial membrane system. TSPO activity disappeared in laminas III-IV after P8 and was functionally downregulated in lamina II after P15, resulting in a marked reduction of mIPSC duration in these laminas. TSPO-mediated synthesis of 3alpha5alpha-reduced steroids was spatially restricted, because, at P9-P15, when their production was maximal in lamina II, no sign of spillover to laminas III-IV was apparent. Interestingly, after P8, the enzymes necessary for the synthesis of 3alpha5alpha-reduced steroids remained functional in laminas III-IV and could produce such steroids from various precursors or after a single subcutaneous injection of progesterone. Moreover, induction of an acute peripheral inflammation by intraplantar injection of carrageenan, restored a maximal TSPO-mediated neurosteroidogenesis in laminas III-IV. Our results indicate that the decay kinetics of GABA(A) receptor-mediated mIPSCs in the DH of the spinal cord are primarily controlled by 3alpha5alpha-reduced steroids, which can be produced from circulating steroid precursors and/or in a spatially restricted manner by the modulation of the activity of TSPO.
A fundamental feature of auditory perception is the constancy of sound recognition over a large range of intensities. Although this invariance has been described in behavioral studies, the underlying neural mechanism is essentially unknown. Here we show a putative level-invariant representation of sounds by populations of neurons in primary auditory cortex (A1) that may provide a neural basis for the behavioral observations. Previous studies reported that pure-tone frequency tuning of most A1 neurons widens with increasing sound level. In sharp contrast, we found that a large proportion of neurons in A1 of awake marmosets were narrowly and separably tuned to both frequency and sound level. Tuning characteristics and firing rates of the neural population were preserved across all tested sound levels. These response properties lead to a level-invariant representation of sounds over the population of A1 neurons. Such a representation is an important step for robust feature recognition in natural environments.
Adaptation is ubiquitous in sensory processing. Although sensory processing is hierarchical, with neurons at higher levels exhibiting greater degrees of tuning complexity and invariance than those at lower levels, few experimental or theoretical studies address how adaptation at one hierarchical level affects processing at others. Nevertheless, this issue is critical for understanding cortical coding and computation. Therefore, we examined whether perception of high-level facial expressions can be affected by adaptation to low-level curves (i.e., the shape of a mouth). After adapting to a concave curve, subjects more frequently perceived faces as happy, and after adapting to a convex curve, subjects more frequently perceived faces as sad. We observed this multilevel aftereffect with both cartoon and real test faces when the adapting curve and the mouths of the test faces had the same location. However, when we placed the adapting curve 0.2 degrees below the test faces, the effect disappeared. Surprisingly, this positional specificity held even when real faces, instead of curves, were the adapting stimuli, suggesting that it is a general property for facial-expression aftereffects. We also studied the converse question of whether face adaptation affects curvature judgments, and found such effects after adapting to a cartoon face, but not a real face. Our results suggest that there is a local component in facial-expression representation, in addition to holistic representations emphasized in previous studies. By showing that adaptation can propagate up the cortical hierarchy, our findings also challenge existing functional accounts of adaptation.

Albinism has a profound effect on visual development and visual function. Pharmacologically significant alterations of the two most important chloride-transporters--KCC2 (outward transporter) and NKCC1 (inward transporter)--functions were found in albino visual cortex neurons, comprising a higher NKCC1 and a lower KCC2 action. In this study, we compare the early postnatal development of the reversal potential of gamma-aminobutyric acidAR-mediated currents in visual cortex neurons of albino and pigmented rats. At birth we found no differences. At the time of eye opening (second week postnatally) the reversal potential of gamma-aminobutyric acidAR-mediated currents is 15 mV more positive and intracellular Cl- concentration is higher in visual cortex neurons of albinos than of pigmented rats.
Low density lipoprotein receptor-related protein, megalin, is a multifunctional lipoproptein receptor expressed by absorptive epithelia for endocytosis of numerous ligands. Megalin is widely expressed during embryonic life and is essential for development of the nervous system as evidenced by severe forebrain abnormalities in megalin (-/-). Here, we investigated the influence of megalin deficiency on prenatal spinal cord development in mice. In contrast to wild-type mice, cells expressing Olig2 and NG2, that is, oligodendroglial precursor cells, are absent from embryonic stage E16 in megalin (-/-) mice. At the end of prenatal development, there is a failure in vertebral development, and the number of astrocytes are markedly reduced in megalin (-/-) mice. These findings indicate that megalin is essential in astro-oligodendroglial interactions during development of the spinal cord.
The ability to direct motivational feelings towards another person, and develop an intimate partner-relationship is important for social interaction, notably for sexual desire (SD). The recent discovery of a brain network for SD recruiting higher-order cognitive brain areas (angular gyrus), in addition to emotional limbic brain regions, suggests that SD is sustained by cognitive mechanisms, rather than by instinct only. Critically recent studies in social cognitive neuroscience support the interaction between SD and a self expansion model. The findings we report here are important theoretically and practically.

Optic flow is a key signal for heading perception. A new study has shown that the human brain can dissociate between consistent (natural) and inconsistent flow, revealing what is likely a new hierarchy in visual motion processing.
A key feature of successful motor control is the ability to counter unexpected perturbations. This process is complicated in multijoint systems, like the human arm, by the fact that loads applied at one joint will create motion at other joints [1-3]. Here, we test whether our most rapid corrections, i.e., reflexes, address this complexity through an internal model of the limb's mechanical properties. By selectively applying torque perturbations to the subject's shoulder and/or elbow, we revealed a qualitative difference between the arm's short-latency/spinal reflexes and long-latency/cortical reflexes. Short-latency reflexes of shoulder muscles were linked exclusively to shoulder motion, whereas its long-latency reflexes were sensitive to both shoulder and elbow motion, i.e., matching the underlying shoulder torque. In fact, a long-latency reflex could be evoked without even stretching or lengthening the shoulder muscle but by displacing just the elbow joint. Further, the shoulder's long-latency reflexes were appropriately modified across the workspace to account for limb-geometry changes that affect the transformation between joint torque and joint motion. These results provide clear evidence that long-latency reflexes possess an internal model of limb dynamics, a degree of motor intelligence previously reserved for voluntary motor control [3-5]. The use of internal models for both voluntary and reflex control is consistent with substantial overlap in their neural substrates and current notions of intelligent feedback control [6-8].

Transient forebrain or global ischemia induces delayed neuronal death in vulnerable CA1 pyramidal cells with many features of apoptosis. A brief period of ischemia, i.e., ischemic preconditioning, affords robust protection of CA1 neurons against a subsequent more prolonged ischemic challenge. Here we show that preconditioning acts via PI3K/Akt signaling to block the ischemia-induced cascade involving mitochondrial translocation of Bad, assembly of Bad with Bcl-x(L), cleavage of Bcl-x(L) to form its prodeath fragment, DeltaN-Bcl-x(L), activation of large-conductance channels in the mitochondrial outer membrane, mitochondrial release of cytochrome c and Smac/DIABLO (second mitochondria-derived activator of caspases/direct IAP-binding protein with low pI), caspase activation, and neuronal death. These findings show how preconditioning acts to prevent the release of cytochrome c and Smac/DIABLO from mitochondria and to preserve the integrity of the mitochondrial membrane. The specific PI3K inhibitor LY294002 administered in vivo 1 h before or immediately after ischemia or up to 120 h later significantly reverses preconditioning-induced protection, indicating a requirement for sustained PI3K signaling in ischemic tolerance. These findings implicate PI3K/Akt signaling in maintenance of the integrity of the mitochondrial outer membrane.
J. F. Mitchell, G. R. Stoner, and J. H. Reynolds (2004) observed that exogenously cuing one of two superimposed transparent surfaces resulted in an enhanced perceptual bias for the cued surface during binocular rivalry. We investigated the neural bases of this effect by recording event-related potentials (ERPs). Subjects viewed two superimposed rotating transparent surfaces and compared the directions of two successive translations, either both of the same surface or one of each surface. Following the first translation, which cued attention to the translating surface, two surface images were removed-one from each eye (dichoptic viewing) or both from one eye (monocular viewing). Subjects were impaired at comparing the first and second translations when they occurred on different surfaces, and the impairment was greater during dichoptic viewing (rivalry). The P1 component (110-160 ms) of the ERP elicited by the second translation of the same surface was larger than for the different surface during dichoptic but not monocular viewing. Larger cueing effects were also observed for the subsequent posterior N1 (160-220 ms) and P2 (250-300 ms) components during rivalry than during monocular viewing. These results are in line with a hybrid model of rivalry whereby cuing one surface initiates an earlier interocular selection process when the competing surfaces are presented to separate eyes.

There is increasing interest in the search for therapeutic options for diseases and injuries of the central nervous system (CNS), for which currently no effective treatment strategies are available. Replacement of damaged cells and restoration of function can be accomplished by transplantation of cells derived from different sources, such as human foetal tissue, genetically modified cell lines, embryonic or somatic stem cells. Preclinical and clinical trials have shown promising results in neurodegenerative disorders, like Parkinson's and Huntington's disease, but also ischaemic stroke, intracerebral haemorrhage, demyelinating disorders, epilepsy and traumatic lesions of the brain and spinal cord. Other studies have focused on finding new ways to activate and direct endogenous repair mechanisms in the CNS, eg, by exposure to specific neuronal growth factors or by inactivating inhibitory molecules. Neuroprotective drugs may offer an additional tool for improving neuronal survival in acute or chronic CNS diseases. Importantly however, a number of scientific issues need to be addressed in order to permit the introduction of these experimental techniques in the wider clinical setting.
Activation of NF-kappaB transcription factor signaling is one of the hallmarks of genotoxic stress. Recently, the NEMO shuttle was revealed to mediate this nucleo-cytoplasmic signaling linking DNA damage to the activation of NF-kappaB system. DNA damage is the causative factor of several segmental progeroid syndromes, such as Werner syndrome and Hutchinson-Gilford syndrome. Although the gene defects have been well characterized, the molecular mechanisms of premature aging process still need to be defined. Here we review the details of the NEMO shuttle, a dual-signal sensor linking DNA damage to NF-kappaB activation, and present evidence for the hypothesis that DNA damage in progeroid syndromes may activate the NEMO shuttle and subsequently increase the pressure on the activation of NF-kappaB system evoking a premature aging phenotype. The NEMO shuttle may link genotoxic stress to the activation of the innate immunity system and cause premature aging via inflamm-aging process.

The accumulation of intracellular protein deposits as inclusion bodies is the common pathological hallmark of most age-related neurodegenerative disorders including polyglutamine diseases. Appearance of aggregates of the misfolded mutant disease proteins suggest that cells are unable to efficiently degrade them, and failure of clearance leads to the severe disturbances of the cellular quality control system. Recently, the quality control ubiquitin ligase CHIP has been shown to suppress the polyglutamine protein aggregation and toxicity. Here we have identified another ubiquitin ligase, called E6-AP, which is able to promote the proteasomal degradation of misfolded polyglutamine proteins and suppress the polyglutamine protein aggregation and polyglutamine protein-induced cell death. E6-AP interacts with the soluble misfolded polyglutamine protein and associates with their aggregates in both cellular and transgenic mouse models. Partial knockdown of E6-AP enhances the rate of aggregate formation and cell death mediated by the polyglutamine protein. Finally, we have demonstrated the up-regulation of E6-AP in the expanded polyglutamine protein-expressing cells as well as cells exposed to proteasomal stress. These findings suggest that E6-AP is a critical mediator of the neuronal response to misfolded polyglutamine proteins and represents a potential therapeutic target in the polyglutamine diseases.
The beta-amyloid peptide (Abeta) is the major constituent of the amyloid core of senile plaques found in the brain of patients with Alzheimer disease. Abeta is produced by the sequential cleavage of the amyloid precursor protein (APP) by beta- and gamma-secretases. Cleavage of APP by gamma-secretase also generates the APP intracellular C-terminal domain (AICD) peptide, which might be involved in regulation of gene transcription. APP contains three Gly-XXX-Gly (GXXXG) motifs in its juxtamembrane and transmembrane (TM) regions. Such motifs are known to promote dimerization via close apposition of TM sequences. We demonstrate that pairwise replacement of glycines by leucines or isoleucines, but not alanines, in a GXXXG motif led to a drastic reduction of Abeta40 and Abeta42 secretion. beta-Cleavage of mutant APP was not inhibited, and reduction of Abeta secretion resulted from inhibition of gamma-cleavage. It was anticipated that decreased gamma-cleavage of mutant APP would result from inhibition of its dimerization. Surprisingly, mutations of the GXXXG motif actually enhanced dimerization of the APP C-terminal fragments, possibly via a different TM alpha-helical interface. Increased dimerization of the TM APP C-terminal domain did not affect AICD production.
Elucidation of Abeta-lowering agents that inhibit processing of the wild-type (WT) beta-secretase amyloid precursor protein (APP) site, present in most Alzheimer disease (AD) patients, is a logical approach for improving memory deficit in AD. The cysteine protease inhibitors CA074Me and E64d were selected by inhibition of beta-secretase activity in regulated secretory vesicles that produce beta-amyloid (Abeta). The regulated secretory vesicle activity, represented by cathepsin B, selectively cleaves the WT beta-secretase site but not the rare Swedish mutant beta-secretase site. In vivo treatment of London APP mice, expressing the WT beta-secretase site, with these inhibitors resulted in substantial improvement in memory deficit assessed by the Morris water maze test. After inhibitor treatment, the improved memory function was accompanied by reduced amyloid plaque load, decreased Abeta40 and Abeta42, and reduced C-terminal beta-secretase fragment derived from APP by beta-secretase. However, the inhibitors had no effects on any of these parameters in mice expressing the Swedish mutant beta-secretase site of APP. The notable efficacy of these inhibitors to improve memory and reduce Abeta in an AD animal model expressing the WT beta-secretase APP site present in the majority of AD patients provides support for CA074Me and E64d inhibitors as potential AD therapeutic agents.
Whereas some aspects of olfactory hedonism in humans are present from birth, others form during development and throughout adulthood. Although it is generally agreed that such hedonic representations emerge by associative learning, it is not yet clear which learning parameters are prominent. The present study investigated the influence of number of trials on odor preference acquisition in human adults. Forty-eight subjects randomly assigned to three groups were tested in three sessions. In the first session, subjects ranked eight food odors from most pleasant to most unpleasant. The second session consisted in an associative learning, the two most neutral odors were randomly associated with a drink: one odor with water (CS-) and the other odor with a pleasant sweet solution (CS+). In the third session subjects ranked the eight food odors again. In group A, CS+ was paired three times with the US, and in group B only once; in group C, CS+ was paired only once with the US but with a total duration identical to that in group A. Results showed that CS+ was ranked as significantly more pleasant after learning in group A (p&lt;.05), but not in groups B and C (p&gt;.05). In conclusion, the study showed that a neutral smell can acquire positive emotional features after being paired with a pleasant taste, and that this learning depends on the number of associations between smell and taste.
Behaving in the real world requires flexibly combining and maintaining information about both continuous and discrete variables. In the visual domain, several lines of evidence show that neurons in some cortical networks can simultaneously represent information about the position and identity of objects, and maintain this combined representation when the object is no longer present. The underlying network mechanism for this combined representation is, however, unknown. In this paper, we approach this issue through a theoretical analysis of recurrent networks. We present a model of a cortical network that can retrieve information about the identity of objects from incomplete transient cues, while simultaneously representing their spatial position. Our results show that two factors are important in making this possible: A) a metric organisation of the recurrent connections, and B) a spatially localised change in the linear gain of neurons. Metric connectivity enables a localised retrieval of information about object identity, while gain modulation ensures localisation in the correct position. Importantly, we find that the amount of information that the network can retrieve and retain about identity is strongly affected by the amount of information it maintains about position. This balance can be controlled by global signals that change the neuronal gain. These results show that anatomical and physiological properties, which have long been known to characterise cortical networks, naturally endow them with the ability to maintain a conjunctive representation of the identity and location of objects.


Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is a fatal motor neuron disorder characterized pathologically by ubiquitinated TAR DNA binding protein (TDP-43) inclusions. The function of TDP-43 in the nervous system is uncertain, and a mechanistic role in neurodegeneration remains speculative. We identified neighboring mutations in a highly conserved region of TARDBP in sporadic and familial ALS cases. TARDBPM337V segregated with disease within one kindred and a genome-wide scan confirmed that linkage was restricted to chromosome 1p36, which contains the TARDBP locus. Mutant forms of TDP-43 fragmented in vitro more readily than wild type and, in vivo, caused neural apoptosis and developmental delay in the chick embryo. Our evidence suggests a pathophysiological link between TDP-43 and ALS.
Norepinephrine is known to play an integral role in different aspects of behaviour, such as attention and arousal. It has also been implicated in the neurobiology of attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD). The present study was undertaken to determine the differential effects of glutamate on norepinephrine release in hippocampal slices of several rat strains. Two of the strains used in this study model behavioural disorders i.e. spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHR) mimic the behavioural characteristics of ADHD and Wistar-Kyoto (WKY) rats have been used to model depression/anxiety-like behaviours. To achieve the aims of this study, an in vitro superfusion technique was used to determine glutamate-stimulated release of radioactively labelled norepinephrine in hippocampal slices. The results show (1) SHR and Wistar rats released significantly more [(3)H]norepinephrine in response to a 1-min pulse of glutamate (1 mM) than WKY, Sprague-Dawley and Long-Evans rats. (2) Glutamate-stimulated release of [(3)H]norepinephrine was reduced by the AMPA receptor antagonist, CNQX (1 muM), suggesting that AMPA receptors are involved. (3) Exposure of hippocampal slices to a second and third 1-min pulse of glutamate revealed significant decreases in the peaks of [(3)H]norepinephrine release suggesting internalization of AMPA receptors. The rate of AMPA receptor internalization was slower in SHR than in WKY. (4) The NMDA receptor antagonist, MK-801 (10 microM) increased glutamate-stimulated release of [(3)H]norepinephrine in SHR hippocampus. This effect was blocked by CNQX, suggesting that AMPA receptors were required for the NMDA effect and that there was an NMDA component of AMPA receptor internalization in SHR hippocampus which was not evident in WKY. The present findings reveal a novel NMDA component that influences AMPA receptor-mediated regulation of norepinephrine release in SHR hippocampus.
The present study aims to investigate changes of spinal cord AMPA receptor GluR1 and its phosphorylation in inflammatory and neuropathic pain. Complete Freund's adjuvant (CFA) injection into the hind paw produced inflammatory thermal hyperalgesia that was assessed by decreased response latency to radiant heat; spinal nerve ligation (SNL) was used to induce mechanical allodynia that was evaluated with von Frey hairs. By method of Western blot, expression of GluR1 (the main subunit of the AMPA receptor) and its phosphorylated forms at serine 845 (pGluR1-Ser845) and at serine 831 (pGluR1-Ser831) in the spinal dorsal horn was observed. It was found that the expression of pGluR1-Ser845 and pGluR1-Ser831 increased significantly at 1 h after CFA injection, reached peak at 4 h and returned to the normal control level at 24 h, while no significant change was detected in GluR1 itself. In contrast, neither GluR1 nor pGluR1 showed any significant change in rats following SNL. These results suggest that phosphorylated GluR1 (pGluR1-Ser845 and pGluR1-Ser831) might play a role in the induction of inflammatory but not neuropathic pain.
Intrauterine inflammation has been implicated in developmental brain injuries, including the development of periventricular leukomalacia (PVL) and cerebral palsy (CP). Previous studies in our rat model of intrauterine inflammation demonstrated apoptotic cell death in fetal brains within the first 5 days after lipopolysaccharide (LPS) administration to mothers and eventual dysmyelination. Cysteine-containing, aspartate-specific proteases, or caspases, are proteins involved with apoptosis through both intracellular (intrinsic pathway) and extracellular (extrinsic pathway) mechanisms. We hypothesized that cell death in our model would occur mainly via activation of the extrinsic pathway. We further hypothesized that Fas, a member of the tumor necrosis factor receptor (TNFR) superfamily, would be increased and the death inducing signaling complex (DISC) would be detectable. Pregnant rats were injected intracervically with LPS at E15 and immunoblotting, immunohistochemical and immunoprecipitation analyses were performed. The presence of the activated form of the effector caspase (caspase-3) was observed 24 h after LPS administration. Caspase activity assays demonstrated rapid increases in (i) caspases-9 and -10 within 1 h, (ii) caspase-8 at 2 h and (iii) caspase-3 at 4 h. At 24 h after LPS, activated caspase-3(+)/Fas(+) cells were observed within the developing white matter. Lastly, the DISC complex (caspase-8, Fas and Fas-associated death domain (FADD)) was observed within 30 min by immunoprecipitation. Apoptosis in our model occurs via both extrinsic and intrinsic pathways, and activation of Fas may play a role. Understanding the mechanisms of cell death in models of intrauterine inflammation may affect development of future strategies to mitigate these injuries in children.
To analyze the differential recruitment of the raphe nuclei during different phases of feeding behavior, rats were subjected to a food restriction schedule (food for 2 h/day, during 15 days). The animals were submitted to different feeding conditions, constituting the experimental groups: search for food (MFS), food ingestion (MFI), satiety (MFSa) and food restriction control (MFC). A baseline condition (BC) group was included as further control. The MFI and MFC groups, which presented greater autonomic and somatic activation, had more FOS-immunoreactive (FOS-IR) neurons. The MFI group presented more labeled cells in the linear (LRN) and dorsal (DRN) nuclei; the MFC group showed more labeling in the median (MRN), pontine (PRN), magnus (NRM) and obscurus (NRO) nuclei; and the MFSa group had more labeled cells in the pallidus (NRP). The BC exhibited the lowest number of reactive cells. The PRN presented the highest percentage of activation in the raphe while the DRN the lowest. Additional experiments revealed few double-labeled (FOS-IR+5-HT-IR) cells within the raphe nuclei in the MFI group, suggesting little serotonergic activation in the raphe during food ingestion. These findings suggest a differential recruitment of raphe nuclei during various phases of feeding behavior. Such findings may reflect changes in behavioral state (e.g., food-induced arousal versus sleep) that lead to greater motor activation, and consequently increased FOS expression. While these data are consistent with the idea that the raphe system acts as gain setter for autonomic and somatic activities, the functional complexity of the raphe is not completely understood.
Tissue transglutaminase (tTG) is a calcium dependent enzyme that displays diverse functions in various physiological processes. In addition to these physiological functions, there is strong evidence for the implication of tTG in a number of pathologies, including celiac disease, cancer and neurodegeneration. To explore the expression and function of tTG during (patho)physiological conditions, it is of utmost importance to have an assay that specifically measures tTG protein levels in various species and matrices. Therefore, we have developed a sensitive sandwich ELISA to measure tTG protein levels in tissue homogenates and cell lysates of human, rat and mouse origin. The ELISA uses commercially available antibodies, and human recombinant tTG as the standard protein. The limit of detection is 100 pg/ml; the coefficients of intra- and inter-assay variation range from 2.4% to 6.6% and from 12.7% to 15.1%, respectively. Clear detectable levels of tTG protein were measured in human and rat liver and cerebral cortex, as well as in brain-derived neuronal and glial cells. tTG levels in mouse tissues were much lower than observed in human and rat tissues. No cross-reactivity against keratinocyte TG (TG1), epidermal TG (TG3) or blood coagulation factor XIII was observed. The tTG specific sandwich ELISA presented in this paper is a sensitive and reliable tool to accurately measure tTG protein levels in different matrices (cell/tissue) of rat, mouse and human origin. It provides a better alternative for the widely used transglutaminase activity assay with respect to sensitivity and specificity, and may serve as a valuable tool to investigate protein expression levels as part of the approach to unravel the contribution of tTG to health and disease.
Neuroscience has recently turned to the study of utilitarian and non-utilitarian moral judgement. Koenigs et al. examine the responses of normal subjects and those with ventromedial-prefrontal-cortex (VMPC) damage to moral scenarios drawn from functional magnetic resonance imaging studies by Greene et al., and claim that patients with VMPC damage have an abnormally &quot;utilitarian&quot; pattern of moral judgement. It is crucial to the claims of Koenigs et al. that the scenarios of Greene et al. pose a conflict between utilitarian consequence and duty: however, many of them do not meet this condition. Because of this methodological problem, it is too early to claim that VMPC patients have a utilitarian bias.
A challenging goal in neuroscience is to be able to read out, or decode, mental content from brain activity. Recent functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) studies have decoded orientation, position and object category from activity in visual cortex. However, these studies typically used relatively simple stimuli (for example, gratings) or images drawn from fixed categories (for example, faces, houses), and decoding was based on previous measurements of brain activity evoked by those same stimuli or categories. To overcome these limitations, here we develop a decoding method based on quantitative receptive-field models that characterize the relationship between visual stimuli and fMRI activity in early visual areas. These models describe the tuning of individual voxels for space, orientation and spatial frequency, and are estimated directly from responses evoked by natural images. We show that these receptive-field models make it possible to identify, from a large set of completely novel natural images, which specific image was seen by an observer. Identification is not a mere consequence of the retinotopic organization of visual areas; simpler receptive-field models that describe only spatial tuning yield much poorer identification performance. Our results suggest that it may soon be possible to reconstruct a picture of a person's visual experience from measurements of brain activity alone.
Maintaining cell shape and tone is crucial for the function and survival of cells and tissues. Mechanotransduction relies on the transformation of minuscule mechanical forces into high-fidelity electrical responses. When mechanoreceptors are stimulated, mechanically sensitive cation channels open and produce an inward transduction current that depolarizes the cell. For this process to operate effectively, the transduction machinery has to retain integrity and remain unfailingly independent of environmental changes. This is particularly challenging for poikilothermic organisms, where changes in temperature in the environment may impact the function of mechanoreceptor neurons. Thus, we wondered how insects whose habitat might quickly vary over several tens of degrees of temperature manage to maintain highly effective mechanical senses. We screened for Drosophila mutants with defective mechanical responses at elevated ambient temperatures, and identified a gene, spam, whose role is to protect the mechanosensory organ from massive cellular deformation caused by heat-induced osmotic imbalance. Here we show that Spam protein forms an extracellular shield that guards mechanosensory neurons from environmental insult. Remarkably, heterologously expressed Spam protein also endowed other cells with superb defence against physically and chemically induced deformation. We studied the mechanical impact of Spam coating and show that spam-coated cells are up to ten times stiffer than uncoated controls. Together, these results help explain how poikilothermic organisms preserve the architecture of critical cells during environmental stress, and illustrate an elegant and simple solution to such challenge.
Increasing evidence indicates that adhesion molecules are critically involved in the regulation of mechanisms of synaptic plasticity including synapse formation, but also synaptic remodeling associated to changes in synaptic strength. Among these, the Neural Cell Adhesion Molecule (NCAM) and its polysialylated form PSA-NCAM are important candidates. Here we review recent results that point to a possible role of these two molecules in regulating the structural properties of excitatory synapses and namely the composition and stability of the postsynaptic density, thereby accounting for their contribution to mechanisms of synaptogenesis and activity-dependent synaptic plasticity.

We studied the histochemical phenotype of carotid body (CB) cells in the adult rat. In addition to tyrosine hydroxylase (TH), type I cells expressed numerous growth factors such as glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF), basic fibroblast growth factor (bFGF), brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF), ciliary neurotrophic factor (CNTF), insulin-like growth factor-I (IGF-I), epidermal growth factor (EGF) and transforming growth factor-alpha (TGF-alpha), as well as the receptors p75, Ret, epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) and platelet-derived growth factor receptor-alpha (PDGFR-alpha). Type II cells expressed the glial fibrillary acid protein (GFAP), vimentin, the trophic factor bFGF and receptors p75, EGFR and PDGFR-alpha. Both types I and II cells exhibited a positive immunoreaction to markers of neural progenitor cells such as the polysialylated form of the neural cell adhesion molecule (PSA-NCAM) and nestin, respectively, suggesting that CB contain some immature cells even at the adult stage. The possibility that these cells can be expanded and differentiated into mature neurons should be explored.


Corpus callosum (CC) is involved in the performance of bimanual motor tasks. We asked whether its functional role could be investigated by combining a motor behavioral study on bimanual movements in multiple sclerosis (MS) patients with a quantitative magnetic resonance diffusion tensor imaging (DTI) analysis of CC, which is shown to be damaged in this disease. MS patients and normal subjects were asked to perform sequences of bimanual finger opposition movements at different metronome rates; then we explored the structural integrity of CC by means of DTI. Significant differences in motor performance, mainly referred to timing accuracy, were observed between MS patients and control subjects. Bimanual motor coordination was impaired in MS patients as shown by the larger values of the interhand interval observed at all the tested metronome rates with respect to controls. Furthermore, DTI revealed a significant reduction of fractional anisotropy (FA), indicative of microstructural tissue damage, in the CC of MS patients. By correlating the mean FA values with the different motor behavior parameters, we found that the degree of damage in the anterior callosal portions mainly influences the bimanual coordination and, in particular, the movement phase preceding the finger touch. Finally, the described approach, which correlates quantitative measures of tissue damage obtained by advanced magnetic resonance imaging tools with appropriate behavioral measurements, may help the exploration of different aspects of motor performance impairment attributable to the disease.
The sensory neuron-specific sodium channel Na(v)1.8 and p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase are potential therapeutic targets within nociceptive dorsal root ganglion (DRG) neurons in inflammatory, and possibly neuropathic, pain. Na(v)1.8 channels within nociceptive DRG neurons contribute most of the inward current underlying the depolarizing phase of action potentials. Nerve injury and inflammation of peripheral tissues cause p38 activation in DRG neurons, a process that may contribute to nociceptive neuron hyperexcitability, which is associated with pain. However, how substrates of activated p38 contribute to DRG neuron hyperexcitability is currently not well understood. We report here, for the first time, that Na(v)1.8 and p38 are colocalized in DRG neurons, that Na(v)1.8 within DRG neurons is a substrate for p38, and that direct phosphorylation of the Na(v)1.8 channel by p38 regulates its function in these neurons. We show that direct phosphorylation of Na(v)1.8 at two p38 phospho-acceptor serine residues on the L1 loop (S551 and S556) causes an increase in Na(v)1.8 current density that is not accompanied by changes in gating properties of the channel. Our study suggests a mechanism by which activated p38 contributes to inflammatory, and possibly neuropathic, pain through a p38-mediated increase of Na(v)1.8 current density.
Retinal ganglion cells of a given type overlap their dendritic fields such that every point in space is covered by three to four cells. We investigated what function is served by such extensive overlap. Recording from pairs of ON or OFF brisk-transient ganglion cells at photopic intensities, we confirmed that this overlap causes the Gaussian receptive field centers to be spaced at approximately 2 SDs (sigma). This, together with response nonlinearities and variability, was just sufficient to provide an ideal observer with uniform contrast sensitivity across the retina for both threshold and suprathreshold stimuli. We hypothesized that overlap might maximize the information represented from natural images, thereby optimizing retinal performance for many tasks. Indeed, tested with natural images (which contain statistical correlations), a model ganglion cell array maximized information represented in its population responses with approximately 2sigma spacing, i.e., the overlap observed in the retina. Yet, tested with white noise (which lacks statistical correlations), an array maximized its information by minimizing overlap. In both cases, optimal overlap balanced greater signal-to-noise ratio (from larger receptive fields) against greater redundancy (because of larger receptive field overlap). Thus, dendritic overlap improves vision by taking optimal advantage of the statistical correlations of natural scenes.
Long-term changes in glutamate transmission in the nucleus accumbens core (NAcore) contribute to the reinstatement of drug seeking after extinction of cocaine self-administration. Whether similar adaptations in glutamate transmission occur during heroin and cue-induced reinstatement of heroin seeking is unknown. After 2 weeks of heroin self-administration and 2 weeks of subsequent extinction training, heroin seeking was induced by a noncontingent injection of heroin or by presentation of light/tone cues previously paired with heroin infusions. Microdialysis was conducted in the NAcore during reinstatement of heroin seeking in animals extinguished from heroin self-administration or in subjects receiving parallel (yoked) noncontingent saline or heroin. Reinstatement by either heroin or cue increased extracellular glutamate in the NAcore in the self-administration group, but no increase was elicited during heroin-induced reinstatement in the yoked control groups. The increase in glutamate during heroin-induced drug seeking was abolished by inhibiting synaptic transmission in the NAcore with tetrodotoxin or by inhibiting glutamatergic afferents to the NAcore from the prelimbic cortex. Supporting critical involvement of glutamate release, heroin seeking induced by cue or heroin was blocked by inhibiting AMPA/kainate glutamate receptors in the NAcore. Interestingly, although a heroin-priming injection increased dopamine equally in animals trained to self-administer heroin and in yoked-saline subjects, inhibition of dopamine receptors in the NAcore also blocked heroin- and cue-induced drug seeking. Together, these findings show that recruitment of the glutamatergic projection from the prelimbic cortex to NAcore is necessary to initiate the reinstatement of heroin seeking.
During the development and maturation of sensory neurons, afferent activity is required for normal maintenance. There exists a developmental window of time when auditory neurons, including neurons of the anteroventral cochlear nucleus (AVCN), depend on afferent input for survival. This period of time is often referred to as a critical period. The cellular and molecular mechanisms that underlie AVCN neuron susceptibility to deafferentation-induced death remain unknown. Here, we show that only during this critical period deafferentation of mouse AVCN neurons by in vivo cochlea removal results in rapid nuclear translocation and activation of the transcription factor NFATc4 (nuclear factor of activated T-cells isoform 4). NFAT activation is abolished by in vivo treatment with the calcineurin inhibitor FK506 and the specific NFAT-inhibitor 11R-VIVIT. Inhibition of NFAT significantly attenuates deafferentation-induced apoptosis of AVCN neurons and abolishes NFAT-mediated expression of FasL, an initiator of apoptotic pathways, in the cochlear nucleus. These data suggest that NFAT-mediated gene expression plays a role in deafferentation-induced apoptosis of cochlear nucleus neurons during a developmental critical period.
The columnar organization is most apparent in the whisker barrel cortex but seems less apparent in the gustatory insular cortex. We addressed here whether there are any differences between the two cortices in columnar information processing by comparing the spatiotemporal patterns of excitation spread in the two cortices using voltage-sensitive dye imaging. In contrast to the well known excitation spread in the horizontal direction in layer II/III induced in the barrel cortex by layer IV stimulation, the excitation caused in the insular cortex by stimulation of layer IV spread bidirectionally in the vertical direction into layers II/III and V/VI, displaying a columnar image pattern. Bicuculline or picrotoxin markedly extended the horizontal excitation spread in layer II/III in the barrel cortex, leading to a generation of excitation in the underlying layer V/VI, whereas those markedly increased the amplitude of optical responses throughout the whole column in the insular cortex, subsequently widening the columnar image pattern. Such synchronous activities as revealed by the horizontal and vertical excitation spreads were consistently induced in the barrel and insular cortices, respectively, even by stimulation of different layers with varying intensities. Thus, a unique functional column existed in the insular cortex, in which intracolumnar communication between the superficial and deep layers was prominent, and GABA(A) action is involved in the inhibition of the intracolumnar communication in contrast to its involvement in intercolumnar lateral inhibition in the barrel cortex. These results suggest that the columnar information processing may not be universal across the different cortical areas.

Reward-based associative learning is mediated by a distributed network of brain regions that are dependent on the dopaminergic system. Age-related changes in key regions of this system, the striatum and the prefrontal cortex, may adversely affect the ability to use reward information for the guidance of behavior. The present study investigated the effects of healthy aging on different components of reward learning, such as acquisition, reversal, effects of reward magnitude, and transfer of learning. A group of 30 young (mean age = 24.2 yr) and a group of 30 older subjects (mean age = 64.1 yr) completed two probabilistic reward-based stimulus association learning tasks. Older subjects showed poorer overall acquisition and impaired reversal learning, as well as deficits in transfer learning. When only those subjects who showed evidence of significant learning were considered, younger subjects showed equivalently fast learning irrespective of reward magnitude, while learning curves in older subjects were steeper for high compared to low reward magnitudes. Acquired equivalence learning, which requires generalization across stimuli and transfer of learned contingencies to new stimuli, was mildly impaired in older subjects.
Learning strategy selection was assessed in two different inbred strains of mice, C57BL/6 and DBA/2, which are used for developing genetically modified mouse models. Male mice received a training protocol in a water maze using alternating blocks of visible and hidden platform trials, during which mice escaped to a single location. After training, mice were required to choose between the spatial location where the platform had been during training (a place strategy) and a visible platform presented in a new location (a cued/response strategy). Both strains of mice had similar escape performance on the visible and hidden platform trials during training. However, in the strategy preference test, C57BL/6 mice selected a place strategy significantly more often than DBA/2 mice. Because much evidence implicates the hippocampus and striatum as important neural substrates for spatial/place and cued/response learning, respectively, the engagement of the hippocampus was then assessed after either place or cue training by determining levels of cAMP response element-binding protein (CREB) and phosphorylated CREB (pCREB) in these two mouse strains. Results revealed that hippocampal CREB levels in both strains of mice were significantly increased after place in comparison to cued training. However, the relation of hippocampal pCREB levels to training was strain dependent; pCREB was significantly higher in C57BL/6 mice than in DBA/2 mice after place training, while hippocampal pCREB levels did not differ between strains after cued training. These findings indicate that pCREB, specifically associated with place/spatial training, is closely tied to differences in spatial/place strategy preference between C57BL/6 and DBA/2 mice.
Type II hexokinase is overexpressed in most neoplastic cells, and it mainly localizes on the outer mitochondrial membrane. Hexokinase II dissociation from mitochondria triggers apoptosis. The prevailing model postulates that hexokinase II release from its mitochondrial interactor, the voltage-dependent anion channel, prompts outer mitochondrial membrane permeabilization and the ensuing release of apoptogenic proteins, and that these events are inhibited by growth factor signalling. Here we show that a hexokinase II N-terminal peptide selectively detaches hexokinase II from mitochondria and activates apoptosis. These events are abrogated by inhibiting two established permeability transition pore modulators, the adenine nucleotide translocator or cyclophilin D, or in cyclophilin D knock-out cells. Conversely, insulin stimulation or genetic ablation of the voltage-dependent anion channel do not affect cell death induction by the hexokinase II peptide. Therefore, hexokinase II detachment from mitochondria transduces a permeability transition pore opening signal that results in cell death and does not require the voltage-dependent anion channel. These findings have profound implications for our understanding of the pathways of outer mitochondrial membrane permeabilization and their inactivation in tumors.
In pigeons, the tectofugal system is functionally as well as structurally lateralized. So for example the right nucleus rotundus is less modulated by right forebrain influences than the left nucleus rotundus by the left ones. This functional lateralization pattern may depend on a dynamic balance between left and right tectal processing. Apart from inhibitory interactions at tectal level, suppressive influences might directly affect rotundal neurons by GABAergic input from a cluster of nuclei, the bed nuclei of the tecto-thalamic tract. A major afferent of these nuclei is the side branch of the tectorotundal projection which is of bilateral origin and which is involved in the regulation of ipsilateral as well as bilateral visual processing. Hence, an important role of the bed nuclei could be the interhemispheric communication and in turn the mediation of functional asymmetries. In a first step to unravel asymmetric influences of these nuclei, the present study investigated if the largest of the bed nuclei, the nucleus subpretectalis displays morphological asymmetries in the pigeon. We found that the nucleus subpretectalis in fact exhibits asymmetric cell sizes with larger cell bodies on the left side. This asymmetrical pattern was not present in dark-incubated animals indicating that cell size asymmetries within nucleus subpretectalis are induced by asymmetric photic stimulation during embryonic development.
How does a pigeon see the world? Although pigeons are known to be adept at learning large numbers of figures, colors, and natural images, various experiments show that their visual cognitive specialization is more geared towards seeing colors and textures instead of shapes. They also excel in the analysis of local features instead of shapes that can only be differentiated by their outline. We therefore embarked into a detailed analysis of the relative weight of colors versus shapes in an object grouping task. At the same time we used a design that gave us information on the question of the relative importance of the S+ and S- in cognitive tests. Our strategy was to use the classic matching to sample task in which pigeons have to associate a sample with another stimulus (S+), which belongs to the same arbitrary group while at the same time avoiding choosing another stimulus (S-), which is part of another arbitrary group. Our results clearly reveal that color is, relative to shape, the primary cue that pigeons use to guide their decisions. Although they are in principle able to use shape information, they utilize shape as the last cognitive resort. Our data further reveal that pigeons guide their decisions in a matching to sample task primarily by focusing on the S+, although they also utilize information from the S-, albeit to a smaller extent. They are flexibly able to use cognitive match- or nonmatch-strategies depending on the presence or absence of color- or shape-cues.
Toothed whales (odontocetes) are a promising paradigm for neurobiology and evolutionary biology. The ecophysiological implications and structural adaptations of their brain seem to reflect the necessity of effective underwater hearing for echolocation (sonar), navigation, and communication. However, not all components of the auditory system are equally well developed. Other sensory systems are more or less strongly reduced such as the olfactory system and, as an exception among vertebrates, the vestibular system (the semicircular canals and vestibular nuclei). Additional outstanding features are: (1) the hypertrophy of the neocortex, pons, cerebellum (particularly the paraflocculus), the elliptic nucleus, the facial motor nucleus and the medial accessory inferior olive and (2) the reduction of the hippocampus. The screening of brain structures with respect to shared circuitry and shared size correlations resulted in central loops also known from other mammals which overlap in the cerebellum and serve in the integration and processing of sensory input. It is highly probable that for dolphin navigation the ascending auditory pathway, including the inferior colliculus and the medial geniculate body, is of utmost importance. The extended auditory neocortical fields project to the midbrain and rhombencephalon and may influence premotor and motor areas in such a way as to allow the smooth regulation of sound-induced and sound-controlled locomotor activity as well as sophisticated phonation. This sonar-guided acousticomotor system for navigation and vocalization in the aquatic environment may have been a major factor if not the key feature in the relative size increase seen in dolphin brains.
Most current hypotheses about the neural basis for consciousness, including higher-level consciousness, are based on mammalian neural features, particularly focusing on thalamocortical circuitry. It is postulated here that since higher-level consciousness is correlated with higher-level cognitive abilities in humans and other mammals, this correlation also holds for nonmammalian taxa; that the level of cognitive ability may be proportional to the level of consciousness; and that the neural basis for both is either the same or highly overlapping. Recent studies, ingeniously designed to be species-sensitive, have revealed a host of highly cognitive abilities in birds, including manifestations of working memory (delayed match-to-sample, episodic memory, transitive inference, and multistability) and category formation, language and numerical comprehension, tool manufacture and cultural transmission of tool design, theory of mind, and Piagetian object permanence to a high level. Comparisons of the neural circuitry reveal extensive similarity in thalamic nuclei and ascending systems to the pallium. However, the avian pallium lacks the laminar architecture and therefore cortical columns of mammals, and avian pallial projection neurons are multipolar rather than specifically pyramidal as in mammals. Neural features common to both mammals and birds, which thus may be crucially involved in the generation of both higher-level cognitive abilities and higher-level consciousness, include large, multipolar, glutamatergic neurons with extensive and densely spiny dendrites, with extensive interconnectedness as well as inter-regional connections, GABAergic inputs from local interneurons, and connections with thalamic nuclei that are regulated by the thalamic reticular nucleus as well as basal ganglia loops.
To compare the developmental pattern of the visual tecto- and thalamofugal pathways in the altricial pigeon, we examined the posthatch differentiation of the retinothalamic system. Choleratoxin was injected into the left and right eye to visualize the retinal innervation pattern of the lateral geniculate nucleus of the thalamus (GLd). The calcium-binding proteins parvalbumin and calbindin and GABA(Abeta) receptors were used as indicators for the functional development of the GLd. Although all retinorecipient thalamic target structures were invaded by retinal fibers directly after hatching, density of the projection increased during the first week. While the adult GLd was characterized by a substantial number of cells displaying calbindin-immunoreactivity and by a sparse innervation by parvalbumin-immunoreactive fibers, after hatching no labelling for calcium-binding proteins could be detected. Calbindin-immunoreactivity appeared not before posthatching day 7, while parvalbumin-immunoreactive fibers were detected only after the third week. In contrast, a dense but diffuse GABA(Abeta) receptor-labelling was present from hatching onwards that decreased during development. The delayed expression of calbindin as well as changes in the density of GABA(Abeta) receptors indicate that maturation of GLd neurons extends long into the posthatch period. It is likely that the GABAergic interneurons mainly develop within this posthatch timeframe. Combined with the delayed development of the parvalbumin-positive innervation, the developmental pattern of GLd neurons suggests that the thalamofugal networks are immature after hatching and therefore still sensitive to modulations of posthatch visual experience.
One aspect of cortical organization, cortical field size, is variable both within and across species. The observed variability arises from a variety of sources, including genes intrinsic to the neocortex and a number of extrinsic and epigenetic factors. Genes intrinsic to the cortex are directly involved in the development and specification of cortical fields and are regulated from both signaling centers located outside of the neocortex, which secrete diffusible molecules, and the expression of transcription factors within the neocortex. In addition, extrinsic factors such as the type, location and density of sensory receptor arrays and how these receptor arrays are utilized, are also strongly related to cortical field size. Epigenetic factors including the relative activity patterns generated by the different types of physical stimuli in a given environment also contribute to differences in cortical organization, including cortical field size. Since both genetic and epigenetic factors contribute to cortical organization, some aspects of the cortical phenotype evolve, while other aspects of the cortical phenotype persist only if the environment in which an individual develops is relatively stable.
In Xenopus laevis, we analyzed the origin of the projection neurons and interneurons in the developing olfactory bulbs by studying the expression patterns of the genes x-Eomes, x-Lhx5, x-Dll3 and x-Pax6. Olfactory bulb interneurons were characterized by using four conserved molecular markers for distinct subpopulations: gamma-aminobutyric acid, calretinin, calbindin, and tyrosine hydroxylase. Immunohistochemistry was combined with tract-tracing experiments to demonstrate the projection neurons and the interneurons of the olfactory bulbs simultaneously. Taken together, the results showed: (1) the pallial nature of the olfactory bulb and its projection neurons in Xenopus, like in mammals with comparable central projection areas, (2) the subpallial origin of the interneurons that, most likely, follow migratory pathways comparable to those described for mammals, (3) the different interneuron types possess neurochemical characteristics similar to mammals. Therefore, the present results show that the origin, chemoarchitecture and central connections of the olfactory bulbs are highly conserved in evolution.
The bony fishes consist of ray-finned fishes and lobe-finned fishes. In ray-finned fishes, the forebrain forms a morphocline from the cladistian bichirs through teleosts regarding the number and increasing complexity of pallial connections. The nuclei of the posterior tubercle parallel this increase in complexity, but the dorsal thalamic nuclei do not. The primary targets of the dorsal thalamic nuclei are the subpallial nuclei, whereas the primary targets of the posterior tubercle are various pallial divisions. Primitively, nucleus medianus is the primary projection nucleus of the posterior tubercle. It is either reduced or lost in teleosts, and its role is taken over by the preglomerular complex, which appears to develop from proliferative zones in both the thalamic alar plate and the posterior tubercle. Although there are numerous hodological data for the pallium in ray-finned fishes, there is no consensus regarding its homologies with other vertebrates. In contrast to ray-finned fishes, very few experimental data exist for lobe-finned fishes. The coelacanth, Latimeria, is extremely rare, and lungfishes are the best source for new experimental data. At this point, there are sufficient data to suggest that lungfishes are characterized by a pallium that is divided into four components, separate dorsal and ventral striatopallidal systems, and an amygdala that consists of anterior, central, lateral, and medial nuclei. The data suggest that telencephalic organization in lungfishes is far more similar to that in amphibians than was previously suspected.






Physical exercise has been shown to stimulate neurogenesis, increase resistance to brain trauma and disease, improve learning and increase levels of growth factors. We show that low intensity exercise has profound effects on the phenotype of a mouse mutant with progressive motor neuronopathy. These animals normally die at 47 days of age due to motoneuron loss and muscle atrophy. When mice undergo low intensity exercise, their lifespan increased by 74%, they exhibited a decreased loss of motoneurons, improved muscle integrity and a twofold increase in proliferating cells in the spinal cord. The molecular mechanism of neuroprotection may be related to insulin-like-growth factor 1 (IGF-1) since injections of antibodies to IGF-1 abrogated the effects of exercise on the increased life-span. Thus IGF-1 may act as a possible &quot;exercise-induced&quot; neuroprotective factor.
The cerebellar cortex of protein O-mannose UDP-N-acetylglucosaminyl transferase 1 (POMGnT1) knockout mice contains discrete clusters of granule neurons that fail to migrate from the external germinal layer (EGL) to the internal granule cell layer (IGL). To test the hypothesis that the breaches in the pial basement membrane and glia limitans contribute to the formation of such heterotopias, POMGnT1 deficient mice were used to examine the mechanisms underlying these migration defects. The basement membrane, glia limitans, and granule neuron development were assessed with protein markers and immunofluorescent microscopy. Further, the integrity of the pial basement membrane, and granule neuron differentiation state were assessed by electron microscopy. Localized breaches in pial basement membrane and disruptions in the glia limitans were strongly associated with ectopia of EGL cells. In such ectopias, Bergmann glia fibers were retracted and disorganized with very few protruded into the ectopic area. Thus, migration failure was correlated with a compromised Bergmann glia scaffold. Nevertheless, the ectopic EGL cells showed characteristics of differentiated granule neurons and formed synapses with mossy fibers. Altogether, these results suggest that pial basement membrane breaches and glia limitans disruptions are the underlying causes of cerebellar granule neuron ectopia in POMGnT1 knockout mice. Moreover, migration into the IGL is not required for granule cell acquisition of certain differentiated characteristics.
The present study examined the involvement of 5-HT in the ventrolateral orbital cortex (VLO) on descending antinociception and determined which subtypes of 5-HT receptors mediated this effect. This study focused on the effects of 5-HT microinjection in the VLO of lightly anesthetized male rats on the radiant heat-evoked tail flick (TF) reflex, as well as the influence of 5-HT(1A), 5-HT(2), 5-HT(3), and 5-HT(4) receptor subtype antagonists on the effect of 5-HT. Results showed that 5-HT microinjection (2, 5, 10 microg, in 0.5 microl) into the VLO depressed the TF reflex in a dose-dependent manner. Pretreatment with 5-HT receptor antagonists (1-(2-methoxyphenyl)-4-[4-(2-phthalimido)butyl] piperazine hydrobromide (NAN-190), cyproheptadine hydrochloride (CPT) and 1-methyl-N-(8-methyl-8-azabicyclo[3.2.3]-oct-3-yl)-1H-indazole-3-carboxamide maleate salt (LY-278,584)), specific for 5-HT(1A), 5-HT(2) and 5-HT(3) receptors, respectively, partially reversed the 5-HT-evoked inhibition. In contrast, the 5-HT(4) receptor antagonist, 1-[2-[(methylsulfonyl)-amino]ethyl]-4-piperidinyl]methyl1-methyl-1H-indole-3-carboxylate (GR 113808), had no effect on the inhibition of 5-HT. Microinjections of NAN-190, CPT and LY-278,584 alone into the VLO had no effect on the TF reflex. These results suggest that 5-HT(1A), 5-HT(2) and 5-HT(3), but not 5-HT(4) receptors, are involved in mediating 5-HT-induced antinociception in the VLO. According to different properties and distribution patterns of the 5-HT receptor subtypes on neurons, the possible mechanism of 5-HT activation of the VLO-periaqueductal gray (PAG) descending antinociceptive pathway is discussed.
17beta-Estradiol (E) increases axospinous synapse density in the hippocampal CA1 region of young female rats, but not in aged rats. This may be linked to age-related alterations in signaling pathways activated by synaptic estrogen receptor alpha (ER-alpha) that potentially regulate spine formation, such as LIM-kinase (LIMK), an actin depolymerizing factor/cofilin kinase. We hypothesized that, as with ER-alpha, phospho-LIM-kinase (pLIMK) may be less abundant or responsive to E in CA1 synapses of aged female rats. To address this, cellular and subcellular distribution of pLIMK-immunoreactivity (IR) in CA1 was analyzed by light and electron microscopy in young and aged female rats that were ovariectomized and treated with either vehicle or E. pLIMK-IR was found primarily in perikarya within the pyramidal cell layer and dendritic shafts and spines in stratum radiatum (SR). While pLIMK-IR was occasionally present in terminals, post-embedding quantitative analysis of SR showed that pLIMK had a predominant post-synaptic localization and was preferentially localized within the postsynaptic density (PSD). The percentage of pLIMK-labeled synapses increased (30%) with E treatment (P&lt;0.02) in young animals, and decreased (43%) with age (P&lt;0.002) regardless of treatment. The pattern of distribution of pLIMK-IR within dendritic spines and synapses was unaffected by age or E treatment, with the exception of an E-induced increase in the non-synaptic core of spines in young females. These data suggest that age-related synaptic alterations similar to those seen with ER-alpha occur with signaling molecules such as pLIMK, and support the hypothesis that age-related failure of E treatment to increase synapse number in CA1 may be due to changes in the molecular profile of axospinous synapses with respect to signaling pathways linked to formation of additional spines and synapses in response to E.
Adenosine is an inhibitory modulator of brain activity with neuroprotective and anticonvulsant properties. To investigate the distribution of bioelectric activities under application of adenosine, rat hippocampal and neocortical slices were incubated with the voltage-sensitive dye RH795 and neuronal activity was monitored using a fast-imaging photodiode array combined with standard field potential recordings. The effects of adenosine (1-50 micromol/l) on the spatial distribution of stimulus-induced activities were studied in non-epileptiform as well as epileptiform conditions. Epileptiform activity was induced by omission of Mg(2+) from the bath medium. The adenosine's inhibitory effects on the amplitude and spatial extent of stimulus-induced bioelectric activity in the hippocampus were most prominent in strata radiatum and pyramidale in both control and epileptic mediums. Adenosine's inhibitory actions were different on various layers of neocortical tissues in non-epileptiform and epileptiform conditions. Layers II and III showed the most inhibition by application of adenosine in control slices. In epileptiform medium, however, adenosine exerts significant suppressive effects only in layer I of neocortical slices. The data demonstrate a region-specific modulatory potential of adenosine on neuronal network excitability in the hippocampus and neocortex. This may be important in local adenosine therapy in epilepsy.
Injuries to the cauda equina/conus medullaris portion of the spinal cord can result in motor, sensory, and autonomic dysfunction, and neuropathic pain. In rats, unilateral avulsion of the motor efferents from the lumbosacral spinal cord results in at-level allodynia, along with a corresponding glial and inflammatory response in the dorsal horn of the spinal cord segments immediately rostral to the lesion. Here, we investigated the fate of intramedullary primary sensory projections following a motor efferent lesion. The lumbosacral (L6 and S1) ventral roots were unilaterally avulsed from the rat spinal cord (VRA; n=9). A second experimental group had the avulsed roots acutely reimplanted into the lateral funiculus (Imp; n=5), as this neural repair strategy is neuroprotective, and promotes the functional reinnervation of peripheral targets. A laminectomy-only group served as controls (Lam; n=7). At 8 weeks post-lesion, immunohistochemical examination showed a 42% reduction (P&lt;0.001) in the number of RT97-positive axons in the ascending tracts of the dorsal funiculus of the L4-5 spinal segment in VRA rats. Evidence for degenerating myelin was also present. Reimplantation of the avulsed roots ameliorated axon and myelin degeneration. Axons in the descending dorsal corticospinal tract were unaffected in all groups, suggesting a specificity of this lesion for spinal primary sensory afferents. These results show for the first time that a lesion restricted to motor roots can induce the degeneration of intramedullary sensory afferents. Importantly, reimplantation of the lesioned motor roots ameliorated sensory axon degeneration. These data further support the therapeutic potential for reimplantation of avulsed ventral roots following trauma to the cauda equina/conus medullaris.
While Pavlovian conditioning alters stimulus-evoked metabolic activity in the cerebral cortex, less is known about the effects of Pavlovian conditioning on neuronal metabolic capacity. Pavlovian conditioning may increase prefrontal cortical metabolic capacity, as suggested by evidence of changes in cortical synaptic strengths, and evidence for a shift in memory initially processed in subcortical regions to more distributed prefrontal cortical circuits. Quantitative cytochrome oxidase histochemistry was used to measure cumulative changes in brain metabolic capacity associated with both cued and contextual Pavlovian conditioning in rats. The cued conditioned group received tone-foot-shock pairings to elicit a conditioned freezing response to the tone conditioned stimulus, while the contextually conditioned group received pseudorandom tone-foot-shock pairings in an excitatory context. Untrained control group was handled daily, but did not receive any tone presentations or foot shocks. The cued conditioned group had higher cytochrome oxidase activity in the infralimbic and anterior cingulate cortex, and lower cytochrome oxidase activity in dorsal hippocampus than the other two groups. A significant increase in cytochrome oxidase activity was found in anterior cortical areas (medial, dorsal and lateral frontal cortex; agranular insular cortex; lateral and medial orbital cortex and prelimbic cortex) in both conditioned groups, as compared with the untrained control group. In addition, no differences in cytochrome oxidase activity in the somatosensory regions and the amygdala were detected among all groups. The findings indicate that cued and contextual Pavlovian conditioning induces sustained increases in frontal cortical neuronal metabolic demand resulting in regional enhancement in the metabolic capacity of anterior cortical regions. Enhanced metabolic capacity of these anterior cortical areas after Pavlovian conditioning suggests that the frontal cortex may play a role in the retention and regulation of learned associations.
The pineal gland expresses vesicular glutamate transporters 1 and 2 (VGLUT1 and VGLUT2), which are thought to transport glutamate into synaptic-like microvesicles in the pinealocytes. Recently, we reported that the rat pineal gland also expresses VGLUT1v which is a novel variant of VGLUT1 during the perinatal period. To explore the biological significance of these VGLUT expressions in pineal development, we studied the ontogeny of VGLUT in this gland by in situ hybridization, immunohistochemistry and quantitative reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) using rats. Histological analysis revealed that intensities of VGLUT1 hybridization signal and immunostaining drastically increase by postnatal day (P) 7, whereas VGLUT2 expression exhibits high levels of mRNA and protein at birth and decreases gradually from P7 onward. Quantitative RT-PCR analysis supported these histological observations, showing that expressions of VGLUT1 and VGLUT2 exhibit opposite patterns to each other. Coinciding with VGLUT1-upregulation, RT-PCR data showed that expressions of dynamin 1 and endophilin 1, which are factors predictably involved in the endocytotic recovery of VGLUT1-associated vesicle, are also increased by P7. Quantitative RT-PCR analysis of VGLUT1v demonstrated that its mRNA expression is upregulated by P7, kept at the same level until P14, and apparently decreased at P21, suggesting its functional property required for a certain developmental event. Moreover, a comparison of mRNA expressions at daytime and nighttime revealed that neither VGLUT1 nor VGLUT1v shows any difference in both P7 and P21 glands, whereas VGLUT2 is significantly lower at daytime than at nighttime at P21 but not P7, the time point at which the melatonin rhythm is not yet generated. The present study shows that expressions of these VGLUT types are differentially regulated during postnatal pineal development, each presumably participating in physiologically distinct glutamatergic functions.
In spite of its immune privileged state, xenotransplantation within the CNS is associated with rapid graft destruction in immunocompetent hosts. Efforts to enhance graft survival have mostly focused on host immune response, whereas relatively little attention has been paid to donor tissue characteristics. In the present paper, we explore long-term survival of xenogeneic full-thickness neuroretinal transplants in immunocompetent hosts and investigate the significance of tissue integrity in relation to graft survival. Adult rabbits receiving no immunosuppression were used as hosts and fetal Sprague-Dawley rat neuroretina as donors. Using vitreoretinal surgical techniques, rabbits received either a full thickness or a fragmented neuroretinal graft to the subretinal space of one eye. Eyes receiving full-thickness grafts were examined morphologically after 91 days and fragmented grafts after 7-14 days. Surviving full thickness grafts were found in six of eight eyes, four of which displayed the normal laminated appearance. Major histocompatibility complex (MHC) up-regulation in surviving grafts was minimal and they contained a well-organized photoreceptor layer, protein kinase C (PKC) labeled rod bipolar cells, parvalbumin labeled AII amacrine cells and glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) labeled Mller cells. Fragmented grafts (n=6) were all destroyed or showed severe signs of rejection. A mass of inflammatory cells derived from the choroid was evident in these specimens, and no labeling of retina-specific cells was seen. We conclude that full-thickness rat neuroretina can survive for several months after subretinal transplantation to the subretinal space of immunocompetent rabbits, while fragmented counterparts are rapidly rejected. Surviving full-thickness grafts can develop many of the normal retinal morphological characteristics, indicating a thriving relationship between the initially immature donor tissue and its foreign host. Our results strongly indicate that donor tissue integrity is a crucial factor for graft survival in CNS xenotransplantation.
ATP-sensitive potassium (K(ATP)) channels play an important role in controlling insulin secretion and vascular tone as well as protecting neurons under metabolic stress. We have previously demonstrated that stimulation of the K(ATP) channel by nitric oxide (NO) requires activation of Ras- and extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK) of the mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) family. However, the mechanistic link between ERK and the K(atp) channel remained unknown. To investigate how ERK modulates the function of K(ATP) channels, we performed single-channel recordings in combination with site-directed mutagenesis. The Kir6.2/SUR1 channel, a neuronal K(ATP) channel isoform, was expressed in human embryonic kidney (HEK) 293 cells by transient transfection. Direct application of the activated ERK2 to the cytoplasmic surface of excised, inside-out patches markedly enhanced the single-channel activity of Kir6.2/SUR1 channels. The normalized open probability (NPo) and opening frequency were significantly increased, whereas the mean closed duration was reduced. The single-channel conductance level was not affected. The ERK2-induced stimulation of Kir6.2/SUR1 channels was prevented by heat-inactivation of the enzyme. Furthermore, alanine substitutions of T341 and S385 to disrupt the potential ERK phosphorylation sites present in the Kir6.2 subunit significantly abrogated the stimulatory effects of ERK2, while aspartate substitutions of T341 and S385 to mimic the (negative) charge effect of phosphorylation rendered a small yet significant reduction in the ATP sensitivity of the channel. Taken together, here we report for the first time that ERK2/MAPK activates neuronal-type K(ATP) channels, and this stimulation requires ERK phosphorylation of the Kir6.2 subunit at T341 and S385 residues. The ERK2-induced K(ATP) channel stimulation can be accounted for by changes in channel gating that destabilize the closed states and by reduction in the ATP sensitivity. As Kir6.2 is the pore-forming subunit of K(ATP) channels, ERK2-mediated phosphorylation may represent a common mechanism for K(ATP) channel regulation in different tissues.
Nitric oxide (NO) is a major signaling molecule in the gastrointestinal tract, and released NO inhibits muscular contraction. The actions of NO are mediated by stimulation of soluble guanylate cyclase (sGC, NO-sensitive GC) and a subsequent increase in cGMP concentration. To elucidate NO targets in the gastrointestinal musculature, we investigated the immunohistochemical localization of the beta1 and alpha1 subunits of sGC and the distribution of neuronal NO synthase (nNOS) -containing nerves in the guinea-pig gastrointestinal tract. Distinct immunoreactivity for sGCbeta1 and sGCalpha1 was observed in the interstitial cells of Cajal (ICC), fibroblast-like cells (FLC) and enteric neurons in the musculature. Double immunohistochemistry using anti-c-Kit antibody and anti-sGCbeta1 antibody revealed sGCbeta1 immunoreactivity in almost all intramuscular ICC throughout the entire gastrointestinal tract. Immunoelectron microscopy revealed that sGCbeta1-immunopositive cells possessed some of the criteria for intramuscular ICC: presence of caveolae; frequently associated with nerve bundles; and close contact with smooth muscle cells. sGCbeta1-immunopositive ICC were closely apposed to nNOS-containing nerve fibers in the muscle layers. Immunohistochemical and immunoelectron microscopical observations revealed that FLC in the musculature also showed sGCbeta1 immunoreactivity. FLC were often associated with nNOS-immunopositive nerve fibers. In the myenteric layer, almost all myenteric ganglia contained nNOS-immunopositive nerve cells and were surrounded by myenteric ICC and FLC. Myenteric ICC in the large intestine and FLC in the entire gastrointestinal tract showed sGCbeta1 immunoreactivity in the myenteric layer. Smooth muscle cells in the stomach and colon showed weak sGCbeta1 immunoreactivity, and those in the muscularis mucosae and vasculature also showed evident immunoreactivity. These data suggest that ICC are primary targets for NO released from nNOS-containing enteric neurons, and that some NO signals are received by FLC and smooth muscle cells in the gastrointestinal tract.
Lysophosphatidic acid receptor (LPA(1)) signaling initiates neuropathic pain and several pathological events in a partial sciatic nerve injury model. Recently, we reported that lysophosphatidic acid (LPA) induces neuropathic pain as well as demyelination and pain-related protein expression changes via LPA(1) receptor signaling. Lysophosphatidylcholine (LPC), also known as lysolecithin, which is hydrolyzed by autotaxin/ATX into LPA, induces similar plastic changes. Here, we attempted to clarify whether ATX and LPA(1) receptor signaling is involved in the LPC-induced neuropathic pain. In wild-type mice, a single intrathecal (i.t.) injection of LPC induced mechanical allodynia and thermal hyperalgesia 2 days after injection; this persisted for 7 days at least. On the other hand, LPC-induced mechanical allodynia and thermal hyperalgesia were completely abolished in mice lacking an LPA(1) receptor gene. Furthermore, the LPC-induced response was also significantly, but partially reduced in heterozygous mutant mice for the ATX gene. These findings suggest that intrathecally-injected LPC is converted to LPA by ATX, and this LPA activates the LPA(1) receptor to initiate neuropathic pain.
It is known that gastric mechanoreceptor stimuli are widely integrated into neuronal circuits that involve visceral nuclei of hindbrain as well as several central brain areas. GABAergic neurons are widely represented in hindbrain nuclei controlling gastric motor functions, but limited information is available specifically about GABA(A)-responding neurons in brain visceral areas. The present investigation was designed to determine the central sensory neuronal pathways and their GABA(A)-alpha1 and -alpha3 receptor presenting neurons that respond to gastric mechanoreceptor stimulation within the entire rat brain. Low pressure gastric distension was used to deliver physiological mechanical stimuli in anesthetized rats, and different protocols of gastric distension were performed to mimic different stimulation patterns with and without sectioning vagal and/or splanchnic afferent nerves. Mapping of activated neurons was investigated using double colorimetric immunohistochemistry for GABA(A)-alpha1 or -alpha3 subunits and c-Fos. Following stomach distension, neurons expressing GABA(A) receptors with alpha1 or alpha3 subunits were detected. Low frequency gastric distension induced c-Fos expression in nucleus tractus solitarii (NTS) only, whereas in the high frequency gastric distension c-Fos positive nuclei were found in lateral reticular nucleus and in NTS in addition to some forebrain areas. In contrast, during the tonic-rapid gastric distension the neuronal activation was found in hindbrain, midbrain and forebrain areas. Moreover different protocols of gastric stimulation activated diverse patterns of neurons presenting GABA(A)-alpha1 or -alpha3 receptors within responding brain nuclei, which may indicate a probable functional significance of differential expression of GABA(A)-responding neurons. The same protocol of gastric distension performed in vagotomized rats has confirmed the primary role of the vagus in the response of activation of gastric brain areas, whereas neuronal input of splanchnic origins was shown to play an important role in modulating the mechanogastric response of brain areas.
After recovery from acute muscle pain even minor subsequent muscle use can initiate recurrence of the same mechanical hyperalgesia months or years after the initial injury. We have recently developed a model of this chronic latent hyperalgesia in the rat. In this study, we have examined the possibility that interleukin-6 (IL-6), an inflammatory mediator produced during acute muscle inflammation, can mediate the production of this chronic latent hyperalgesic state in which subsequent exposure to inflammatory mediators produces a markedly prolonged mechanical hyperalgesia. We now report that i.m. injection of IL-6 produced mechanical hyperalgesia, lasting several hours, that was prevented by intrathecal injection of antisense to glycoprotein 130 (gp130), an IL-6 receptor subunit. Furthermore, following complete recovery from i.m. IL-6-induced hyperalgesia, i.m. prostaglandin E(2) produced a mechanical hyperalgesia that was remarkably prolonged compared with nave controls, indicating the presence of chronic latent hyperalgesia. This ability of IL-6 to produce chronic latent hyperalgesia was prevented by intrathecal administration of antisense for gp130. Furthermore, gp130 antisense also prevented chronic latent hyperalgesia produced by i.m. injection of the inflammogen, carrageenan. These results identify a role for IL-6 in acute inflammatory muscle pain and as a potential target against which therapies might be directed to treat chronic muscle pain.
Early growth response (egr) genes encode transcription factors that are induced by stimuli that cause synaptic plasticity. Here we show that the expression of one member of this family, egr-2, is induced in the orbital frontal cortex (OFC) and medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC) of mice performing an attention-set-shifting task (ASST). The ASST is a series of two-choice perceptual discriminations between different odors and textures. Within the OFC and mPFC, different subregions exhibited egr-2 induction in response to different test-related features. In the medial OFC and the anterior cingulate subregion of the mPFC, egr-2 induction occurred in response to exposure to the novel odor stimulus. In the ventrolateral OFC and the pre- and infralimbic mPFC, additional egr-2 induction occurred during the associative learning phase of the ASST. In the infralimbic mPFC, further egr-2 induction occurred when mice performed set-shifting and reversal learning phases of the ASST. Mice with enhanced set-shifting performance exhibited decreased egr-2 induction in the mPFC indicating that the magnitude of egr-2 induction correlates with the magnitude of attentional demand. This decrease was largest in the infralimbic mPFC suggesting further that egr-2 induction in this region plays a role in the attentional control during set-shifting. In contrast to egr-2, neither egr-1 nor egr-3 expression was altered in ASST-tested mice, and no egr-2 induction occurred in mice that performed a spatial working memory task. These findings suggest a specific role of egr-2-mediated transcriptional activation in cognitive functions associated with attention.
Deep brain stimulation (DBS) was applied in the internal segment of the globus pallidus (GPi) to treat dystonia in 10 patients. One year after surgery the Burke-Fahn-Marsden movement scores were significantly lower than preoperative values (P=0.01). Two years after surgery the mean decrease reached 65% (P=0.001) with no motor symptoms worsening. Single unity activity was recorded in the operating room: GPi cells discharged with tonic (n=19; 29%), irregular (n=32; 48%), or burst-like activity (n=15; 23%) and fired with a mean discharge rate of 39 Hz+/-22. Some neurons demonstrated an oscillatory activity with periods lasting several seconds. Pairs of pallidal cells (n=8) recorded simultaneously displayed discharge synchronization. Movement modulated 64.4% of the cells tested, with increases in firing in 89% of cells and decreases in firing in 10% of cells. GPi cells responded to flexion and extension movements and to several passive manipulations indicating an important sensory role in dystonia. GPi neurons fired in advance of the electromyography (EMG) when the surface EMG was recorded simultaneously with the neuronal activity. Spectral analysis of the co-contracting muscles during dystonia demonstrated prominent high peaks at a low frequency band (20 Hz) during involuntary and voluntary movements. The high amplitude EMG profile recorded at rest diminished to very low values with GPi stimulation, allowing an ease of voluntary contractions. We conclude that DBS in the GPi is a reliable surgical technique for dystonia. GPi cells discharge with distinct electrophysiological characteristics that may explain some of the symptoms in dystonia. EMG recording in the operating room helps to determine which DBS contacts produce the best benefit.
Experimental autoimmune neuritis (EAN) is the animal model of acute inflammatory demyelinating polyradiculoneuropathy (AIDP) that is the most common subtype of Guillain-Barre syndrome (GBS). While neuropathic pain is a common symptom of GBS, its underlying mechanisms remain elusive. Central sensitization, particularly spinal glia (microglia and astrocytes) activation, is important for the initiation and maintenance of neuropathic pain. P2X(4) receptor (P2X(4)R) is an ATP-gated ion channel and its spinal up-regulation has been found to be crucial for the development of neuropathic pain following peripheral nerve injury. The initiation of mechanical allodynia in rat EAN was observed at day 9 before the onset of neurological signs. Maximal level of mechanical allodynia was observed from days 17-19 and then a slow recovery, long after the cessation of typical neurological signs of EAN, until day 37 was observed. Expression of P2X(4)R in lumbar spinal cords was studied by immunohistochemistry. P2X(4)R immunoreactivity (IR) was mainly seen in gray matter, particularly in the dorsal horn. Accumulation of P2X(4)R(+) cells in the lumbar dorsal horn was observed at day 9, reached the maximal level at day 17 and remained elevated until day 37 after immunization. Furthermore, a negative correlation between the density of P2X(4)R(+) cells in the lumbar dorsal horn with mean hind-paw withdrawal threshold in EAN rats was seen, indicating that P2X(4)R might contribute to EAN mechanical allodynia. Double staining revealed that almost all P2X(4)R(+) cells co-expressed CD68, a marker for reactive microglia, but not the astrocyte marker, glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP). Our data demonstrate that EAN induces mechanical allodynia and P2X(4)R expression in spinal microglia, suggesting that EAN is a good animal model for neuropathic pain in polyneuropathy and spinal microglia activation might participate in EAN-induced neuropathic pain.
A disintegrin and metalloprotease (ADAM) 10 is the main candidate enzyme for the alpha-secretase processing of the amyloid precursor protein (APP). Neuron-specific ADAM10 overexpression proved beneficial in the APP[V717I] mutant Alzheimer mouse model [Postina R, Schroeder A, Dewachter I, Bohl J, Schmitt U, Kojro E, Prinzen C, Endres K, Hiemke C, Blessing M, Flamez P, Dequenne A, Godaux E, van Leuven F, Fahrenholz F (2004) A disintegrin-metalloproteinase prevents amyloid plaque formation and hippocampal defects in an Alzheimer disease mouse model. J Clin Invest 113:1456-1464]. Since Alzheimer patients have a high prevalence for epileptic seizures, we investigated the effects of ADAM10 modulation under conditions of experimentally induced epileptic seizures. In this context we also examined whether ADAM10 effects were influenced by APP levels. Therefore we compared severity of kainate-induced seizures, neurodegeneration and inflammation in double transgenic mice overexpressing functional ADAM10 or a dominant negative ADAM10 mutant in the APP[V717I] background with single transgenic ADAM10 modulated mice. Double transgenic dominant negative ADAM10dn/APP[V717I] mice suffered from stronger epileptic seizures, had a longer recovery period and showed more neurodegeneration and glial activation in the hippocampal region than double transgenic mice moderately overexpressing functional ADAM10 (ADAM10mo/APP[V717I]) and APP[V717I] mice with endogenous ADAM10 levels. This suggests that ADAM10 activity is necessary to provide neuroprotection against excitotoxicity in the APP[V717I] mouse model. Interestingly, increased expression of functional ADAM10 above the endogenous level did not correlate with a better protection against seizures and neurodegeneration. Furthermore, ADAM10 dominant negative mice without transgenic APP overexpression (ADAM10dn) were seizing for a shorter time and showed less neuronal cell death and neuroinflammation after kainate injection than wild-type mice, which shows beneficial effects of ADAM10 inhibition in context with neurodegeneration. In contrast, mice with a high ADAM10 overexpression showed more seizures and stronger neuronal damage and inflammation than wild-type mice and mice with moderate ADAM10 overexpression. Hence, additional cleavage products of ADAM10 may counterbalance the neuroprotective effect of alpha-secretase-cleaved APP in the defense against excitotoxicity. Our findings highlight the need of a careful modulation of ADAM10 activity for neuroprotection depending on substrate availability and on neurotoxic stress conditions.
Ankyrin-repeat transient receptor potential 1 (TRPA1) is a member of the transient receptor potential (TRP) channel family and it is found in sensory neurons. In the present study, we found that TRPA1 receptor activation with allyl isothiocyanate or cinnamaldehyde caused dose-dependent spontaneous nociception when injected into the mouse hind paw. Very similar results were obtained when stimulating transient receptor potential vanilloid 1 (TRPV1) receptors with capsaicin. Pretreatment with the TRP receptor antagonist Ruthenium Red (1 nmol/paw) inhibited capsaicin-(0.1 nmol/paw) and allyl isothiocyanate-(1 nmol/paw) induced nociceptive responses. However, the nonselective TRPV1 receptor antagonist capsazepine (1 nmol/paw) and the selective TRPV1 receptor antagonist SB 366791 (1 nmol/paw) only attenuated capsaicin-induced nociception. In contrast, the intrathecal treatment with TRPA1 antisense oligodeoxynucleotide (2.5 nmol/site) and the degeneration of the subset of primary afferent fibers sensitive to capsaicin significantly reduced allyl isothiocyanate-induced nociception. Consequently to TRPA1 antisense oligodeoxynucleotide treatment there was a marked decrease of the expression of TRPA1 receptor in both sciatic nervous and spinal cord segments. Moreover, capsaicin and allyl isothiocyanate-induced nociception were not significantly changed by chemical sympathectomy produced by guanethidine. The previous degranulation of mast cells by compound 48/80 and treatment with antagonist H(1) receptor antagonist pyrilamine (400 microg/paw) both significantly inhibited the capsaicin- and allyl isothiocyanate-induced nociception. The selective NK(1) receptor antagonist N(2)-[(4R)-4-hydroxy-1-(1-methyl-1H-indol-3-yl) carbony-1-L-prolyl]-N-methyl-N-phenylmethyl-3-2-(2-naphtyl)-L-alaninamide (10 nmol/paw) reduced either capsaicin- or allyl isothiocyanate-induced nociception. Collectively, the present findings demonstrate that the TRPA1 agonist allyl isothiocyanate produces a consistent nociceptive response when injected into the mouse paw, an effect that seems to be mediated via activation of TRPA1 receptor and dependent on the capsaicin-sensitive fibers, release of histamine by mast cells and participation of tachykinins. Thus, the TRPA1 receptor has an apparently relevant role in nociceptive processes and the selective TRPA1 antagonist might possess a potential antinociceptive property.
Mutations in leucine-rich repeat kinase 2 (LRRK2) constitute the most common known cause of Parkinson's disease (PD), accounting for both familial and sporadic forms of the disease. We analyzed the tempo-spatial activity of leucine-rich repeat kinase 1 (LRRK1) and LRRK2 at the cellular level in human and rat tissues including development and aging. Lrrk2 mRNA is expressed in adult rat striatum, hippocampus, cerebral cortex, sensory and sympathetic ganglia, lung, spleen and kidney. In the developing rat striatum, Lrrk2 transcription is first observed at postnatal day (P) 8 followed by increasing mRNA levels during the following 3 weeks, as revealed by quantitative in situ hybridization, after which levels remain up to 24 months of age. The time-course of postnatal development of Lrrk2 activity in striatum thus closely mirrors the postnatal development of the dopamine innervation of striatum. Lrrk2 mRNA is seen in P1 rat lung, heart, and kidney, whereas Lrrk1 is found in many areas of the P1 rat. Lrrk1 is present in adult rat brain, adrenal gland, liver, lung, spleen and kidney and also in embryonic brain, with declining gene activity after birth. LRRK1 and LRRK2 are active in the adult human cortex cerebri, hippocampus and LRRK2, but not LRRK1, in striatum. Transcription of both genes is also seen in the young human thymus and LRRK2 is active in tubular parts of the adult human kidney. Our findings suggest that the two paralogous genes have partly complementary expression patterns in the brain, as well as in certain peripheral organs including lymphatic tissues. While the strong presence of Lrrk2 message in striatum is intriguing in relation to PD, the many other neuronal and non-neuronal sites of Lrrk2 activity also needs to be taken into account in deciphering possible pathogenic pathways.
Organisms often make effort-related choices based upon assessments of motivational value and work requirements. Nucleus accumbens dopamine is a critical component of the brain circuitry regulating work output in reinforcement-seeking behavior. Rats with accumbens dopamine depletions reallocate their instrumental behavior away from food-reinforced tasks that have high response requirements, and instead they select a less-effortful type of food-seeking behavior. The ventral pallidum is a brain area that receives substantial GABAergic input from nucleus accumbens. It was hypothesized that stimulation of GABA(A) receptors in the ventral pallidum would result in behavioral effects that resemble those produced by interference with accumbens dopamine transmission. The present studies employed a concurrent choice lever pressing/chow intake procedure; with this task, interference with accumbens dopamine transmission shifts choice behavior such that lever pressing for food is decreased but chow intake is increased. In the present experiments, infusions of the GABA(A) agonist muscimol (5.0-10.0 ng) into the ventral pallidum decreased lever pressing for preferred food, but increased consumption of the less preferred chow. In contrast, ventral pallidal infusions of muscimol (10.0 ng) had no significant effect on preference for the palatable food in free-feeding choice tests. Furthermore, injections of muscimol into a control site dorsal to the ventral pallidum produced no significant effects on lever pressing and chow intake. These data indicate that stimulation of GABA receptors in ventral pallidum produces behavioral effects similar to those produced by accumbens dopamine depletions. Ventral pallidum appears to be a component of the brain circuitry regulating response allocation and effort-related choice behavior, and may act to convey information from nucleus accumbens to other parts of this circuitry. This research may have implications for understanding the brain mechanisms involved in energy-related psychiatric dysfunctions such as psychomotor retardation in depression, anergia, and apathy.
The cholinergic agonist nicotine facilitates detection of invalidly cued trials in location-cueing paradigms and reduces the associated neural activity in human inferior parietal cortex. By using functional magnetic resonance imaging we test the hypothesis that the nicotinic modulation of attentional reorienting may result from reduced use of top-down information derived from prior cues. In a within subjects design non-smoking volunteers were given either placebo or nicotine (Nicorette 2 mg gum) prior to performing a cued target discrimination task. Attention was either validly (80%) or invalidly (20%) cued to the right or left visual hemifield. The difference in reaction times to invalidly and validly cued targets is termed the 'validity effect' and indicates the costs for attentional reorienting. Nicotine reduced the validity effect and reorienting-related neural activity in right inferior parietal cortex. Further regions consistently modulated in their activity by nicotine were the right middle temporal gyrus, left middle frontal gyrus, left parahippocampal gyrus and right cerebellum. The effects of nicotine upon top-down modulation were investigated by comparing occipital activity when attending to the right vs. left visual hemifield under placebo and nicotine. If nicotine reduced the use of top-down information attentional modulation in occipital cortex should be smaller under nicotine as compared with placebo. Even though an attention-related modulation of neural activity was observed in the fusiform and middle occipital gyrus we found no evidence for differences in attentional modulation under placebo and nicotine. Our data support a role of nicotinic cholinergic receptors in facilitating several subcomponents of attentional reorienting via modulation of right inferior parietal, temporal and frontal brain activity. In contrast, the findings in the occipital cortex do not support the hypothesis that the effects of nicotine on attentional reorienting are due to reduced reliance on top-down information derived from prior cues.
Permanent bilateral lesions of the medial preoptic area anterior hypothalamus (MPOA/AH) produce a drastic inhibition of male sexual behavior in all species studied to date. The present experiment was designed to evaluate if temporal inactivation of the MPOA/AH by infusions of lidocaine also inhibits sexual behavior in male rats. This would allow us to rule out the possibility that the behavioral effects observed after damage of the MPOA/AH could be associated with plastic changes induced by the lesion in other brain regions. We also evaluated sexual incentive motivation in males after the infusion of lidocaine in a test in which copulation is not possible but where males maintain approach behavior to the estrous females despite repeated testing. The percentage of animals displaying mounts, intromissions and ejaculation was significantly reduced while mount and intromission latency were prolonged after infusion of lidocaine. No changes were observed in sexual behavior after infusion of lidocaine in animals with cannulae outside the MPOA/AH suggesting that the inhibitory effects are specific to this brain region. Sexual incentive motivation was also affected by administration of lidocaine. Males consistently showed a clear preference for the sexually receptive female except when infused with lidocaine. After the infusion of the compound a significant reduction in the time spent in the incentive zone of the stimulus female was observed. These results support the hypothesis that neurons of the MPOA/AH are involved in the control of male sexual motivation.
By means of whole-cell patch-clamp recordings, we characterized the developmental profile of high-voltage-activated (HVA) calcium (Ca(2+)) channel subtypes in distinct neuronal populations of mouse striatum. Acutely dissociated medium spiny neurons (MSNs) and cholinergic interneurons (ChIs) were recorded from mice at five developmental stages: postnatal-days (PD) 14, 23, 40, 150 and 270. During ageing, total HVA Ca(2+) current recorded from both MSNs and ChIs was unchanged. However, the pharmacological analysis of the differential contribution of HVA Ca(2+) channel subtypes showed a significant rearrangement of each component. In both neuronal subtypes, a large fraction of the total HVA current recorded from PD14 mice was inhibited by the L-type HVA channel blocker nifedipine. This dihydropyridine-sensitive component accounted for nearly 50%, in MSNs, and 35%, in ChIs, of total current at PD14, but its contribution was down-regulated up to 20-25% at 9 months. Likewise, the N-type, omega-conotoxin GVIA-sensitive component decreased from 35% to 40% to about 25% in MSNs and 15% in ChIs. The P-type, omega-agatoxin-sensitive fraction did not show significant changes in both neuronal subtypes, whereas the Q-type, omega-conotoxin MVIIC-sensitive channels did show a significant up-regulation at 9 months. As compared with striatal neurons, we recorded pyramidal neurons dissociated from cortical layers IV-V and found no significant developmental change in the different components of HVA Ca(2+) currents. In conclusion, our data demonstrate a functional reconfiguration of HVA Ca(2+) channels in striatal but not cortical pyramidal neurons during mouse development. Such changes might have profound implications for physiological and pathophysiological processes of the striatum.
Cation chloride co-transporters are important determinants for the efficacy of inhibitory neurotransmission in the spinal cord and alterations in their expression levels contribute to allodynia and hyperalgesia associated with neuropathy. However, it remains unknown whether these co-transporters contribute to chronic inflammatory pain. We investigated the expression of potassium-chloride co-transporter 2 (KCC2) and sodium-potassium-chloride co-transporter 1 (NKCC1) in the rat spinal cord after peripheral inflammation induced by complete Freund's adjuvant (CFA) injection. Our results suggest that the expression of KCC2, but not that of NKCC1, was significantly reduced in CFA-injected rats. We also found that blockade of endogenous brain-derived neurotrophic factor-tyrosine receptor kinase B pathway inhibited the inflammation-induced KCC2 downregulation. Moreover, intrathecal injection of KCC2 antisense oligodeoxynucleotides into nave rats reduced KCC2 expression in the spinal cord, leading to behavioral hypersensitivity similar to the hyperalgesia induced by peripheral inflammation. Taken together, these results indicate that peripheral inflammation induces downregulation of KCC2 in the dorsal horn of the spinal cord, which may in turn facilitate the development and/or maintenance of chronic inflammatory pain. The data also support the notion that disinhibition in the spinal cord is a general feature of inflammatory and neuropathic pain conditions, and suggest new therapeutic intervention.
The c-Jun-N-terminal kinase (JNK) pathway has been shown to play an important role in excitotoxic neuronal death and several studies have demonstrated a neuroprotective effect of D-JNKi, a peptide inhibitor of JNK, in various models of cerebral ischemia. We have now investigated the effect of D-JNKi in a model of transient focal cerebral ischemia (90 min) induced by middle cerebral artery occlusion (MCAo) in adult male rats. D-JNKi (0.1 mg/kg), significantly decreased the volume of infarct, 3 days after cerebral ischemia. Sensorimotor and cognitive deficits were then evaluated over a period of 6 or 10 days after ischemia and infarct volumes were measured after behavioral testing. In behavioral studies, D-JNKi improved the general state of the animals as demonstrated by the attenuation of body weight loss and improvement in neurological score, as compared with animals receiving the vehicle. Moreover, D-JNKi decreased sensorimotor deficits in the adhesive removal test and improved cognitive function in the object recognition test. In contrast, D-JNKi did not significantly affect the infarct volume at day 6 and at day 10. This study shows that D-JNKi can improve functional recovery after transient focal cerebral ischemia in the rat and therefore supports the use of this molecule as a potential therapy for stroke.
The present study investigated whether the endogenous pro-inflammatory cytokines [interleukin (IL)-1beta and tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha)]-dependent expression of cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) mRNA within the spinal cord could be involved in the development of chronic inflammatory pain-like behaviors in mice. We demonstrated that the expression of COX-2 mRNA on the ipsilateral side of the spinal cord was significantly increased 6 h and 3 days after intraplantar injection of complete Freund's adjuvant (CFA), compared with the expression in saline-treated mice. In addition, the chronic pain-like behaviors following CFA injection were markedly suppressed by repeated intrathecal (i.t.) pre-treatment with the COX-2 inhibitor etodolac, but not with the COX-1 inhibitor mofezolac. The cytosolic level of the activated form of nuclear factor-kappa B (NF-kappaB), which is a major contributor to the induction of COX-2, on the ipsilateral side of the mouse spinal cord was also increased compared with that in the saline-treated mice. The key finding in the present study was that a single i.t. injection with either IL-1beta or TNF-alpha induced a marked increase in spinal COX-2 mRNA and persistent thermal hyperalgesia in mice. Furthermore, CFA-induced hypersensitivity to inflammatory pain was significantly reduced by repeated i.t. pre-injection of the recombinant Fc chimera of IL-1 receptor I or soluble TNF receptor I, which sequesters endogenous IL-1beta or TNF-alpha, respectively. In contrast, the expression of spinal COX-2 mRNA in CFA-treated mice was similar to that in saline-treated mice at 7 days after CFA injection. The present findings strongly indicate the early intrathecal use of the COX-2 inhibitor for the relief of chronic inflammatory pain. Furthermore, together with the result in a previous study that pro-inflammatory cytokines lead to stimulation of a NF-kappaB-dependent transcriptional pathway, these findings suggest that a spinal cytokine/NF-kappaB/COX-2 pathway may play an important role in the development, but not maintenance, of chronic pain following peripheral tissue inflammation.
Chronic hydrocephalus (CH) is a neurological disease characterized by increased cerebrospinal fluid volume and pressure that is often associated with impaired cognitive function. By and large, CH is a complex and heterogeneous cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) disorder where the exact site of brain insult is uncertain. Several mechanisms including neural compression, fiber stretch, and local or global hypoxia have been implicated in the underlying pathophysiology of CH. Specifically, the hippocampus, which plays a significant role in memory processing and is in direct contact with expanding CSF ventricles, may be involved. Using our model of chronic hydrocephalus, we quantified the density of vascular endothelial growth factor receptor 2 (VEGFR-2(+)) neurons, glial, endothelial cells, and blood vessels in hippocampal regions CA1, CA2-3, dentate gyrus and hilus using immunohistochemical and stereological methods. Density and %VEGFR-2(+) cell populations were estimated for CH animals (2-3 weeks vs. 12-16 weeks) and surgical controls (SC). Overall, we found approximately six- to eightfold increase in the cellular density of VEGFR-2(+) and more than double blood vessel density (BVd) in the hippocampus of CH compared with SC. There were no significant regional differences in VEGFR-2(+) cellular and BVd expression in the CH group. VEGFR-2(+) and BVds were significantly related to changes in CSF volume (P&lt;or=0.05), and not intracranial pressure (ICP). The %VEGFR-2(+) was significantly greater in CH than SC (P&lt;or=0.05), and was significantly correlated with BVd (P&lt;or=0.05). These results showed that CH elicited a profound increase in VEGFR-2(+) in hippocampus that corresponded to increased BVd. It was unclear whether increased VEGFR-2(+) and blood vessel expression was related to focal compression alone or in combination with global ischemia/hypoxia conditions as previously described. These findings suggest that VEGFR-2 may play an adaptive role in angiogenesis after CH-induced hypoxia. Modulation of vascular endothelial growth factor/VEGFR-2(+) may be important in developing treatments for hypoxic conditions including hydrocephalus and other forms of cerebral ischemia.
Sympathetic preganglionic neurons (SPN) represent the final central neurons in the sympathetic pathways which regulate vasomotor tone; they therefore play a pivotal role in the re-distribution of cardiac output to different vascular beds in response to environmental challenges. While the consensus view is that activity in these neurons is due mainly to supraspinal inputs, the possibility that some activity may be generated intrinsically and modified by synaptic inputs cannot be excluded. Therefore, in order to distinguish between these two possibilities, the electrophysiological properties of cardiovascular-like SPN in the upper thoracic spinal cord of the anesthetized rat were examined and their response to activation of vasodepressor inputs was investigated. Intracellular recordings were made from 22 antidromically identified SPN of which 17 displayed irregular, but maintained, spontaneous activity; no evidence of bursting behavior or pacemaker-like activity was observed. Stimulation of the aortic depressor nerve or a vasodepressor site within the nucleus tractus solitarius (NTS) resulted in a membrane hyperpolarization, decrease in cell input resistance and long-lasting cessation of neuronal firing in SPN including a sub-population which had cardiac-modulated patterns of activity patterns. Recordings were also undertaken from 80 non-antidromically-activated neurons located in the vicinity of SPN; 23% of which fired in phase with the cardiac cycle, with this peak of activity occurring before similar increases in cardiac-modulated SPN. Stimulation of vasodepressor regions of the NTS evoked a membrane hyperpolarization and decrease in cell input resistance in cardiac-modulated but not non-modulated interneurons. These studies show that activity patterns in SPN in vivo are determined principally by synaptic inputs. They also demonstrate that spinal interneurons which exhibit cardiac-modulated patterns of activity are postsynaptically inhibited following activation of baroreceptor pathways. However, the question as to whether these inhibitory pathways and/or disfacilitation of tonic excitatory drive underlies the baroreceptor-mediated inhibition of SPN remains to be determined.
The alkaloid lobeline inhibits the function of vesicular monoamine and dopamine transporters and diminishes the behavioral and neurochemical effects of nicotine and amphetamines. In the present study, we examined the interaction of systemic administration of lobeline on breakpoint scores on a progressive ratio (PR) schedule of intracranial self-stimulation (ICSS) of the medial forebrain bundle (MFB). Rats were run in two 30 min sessions, separated by a 10 min timeout period. At the end of the first session, each rat was injected with either 0, 0.5, 1.0 or 2.0 mg/kg (i.p.) lobeline. Positive controls known to suppress and to augment ICSS responding included the adrenergic antagonist prazosin (0, 0.5 and 2.0 mg/kg, i.p.) and the psychostimulant cocaine (0, 1.25, and 5.0 mg/kg, i.p.). Analyses of changes in average PR breakpoint scores between the 2 sessions revealed that lobeline significantly suppressed PR scores at doses of 0.5, 1.0 and 2.0 mg/kg, as did 0.5 mg/kg and 2.0 mg/kg prazosin. These changes are unlikely to reflect motoric effects of these drugs inasmuch as neither lobeline nor prazosin alter locomotion at these doses. In contrast, PR breakpoint scores were significantly increased at 5.0 mg/kg cocaine, a dose that is sufficient to elevate locomotion in the rat. These results are consistent with the view that lobeline modulates brain reinforcement processes.
The hypocretins, also known as orexins, are two neuropeptides now commonly described as critical components to maintain and regulate the stability of arousal. Several lines of evidence have raised the hypothesis that hypocretin-producing neurons are part of the circuitries that mediate the hypothalamic response to acute stress. Intracerebral administration of hypocretin leads to a dose-related reinstatement of drug and food seeking behaviors. Furthermore, stress-induced reinstatement can be blocked with hypocretin receptor 1 antagonism. These results, together with recent data showing that hypocretin is critically involved in cocaine sensitization through the recruitment of NMDA receptors in the ventral tegmental area, strongly suggest that activation of hypocretin neurons play a critical role in the development of the addiction process. The activity of hypocretin neurons may affect addictive behavior by contributing to brain sensitization or by modulating the brain reward system. Hypocretinergic cells, in coordination with brain stress systems may lead to a vulnerable state that facilitates the resumption of drug seeking behavior. Hence, the hypocretinergic system is a new drug target that may be used to prevent relapse of drug seeking.
There has been little work on the specificity and mechanisms underlying the appetite of potassium (K(+)) deprived rats, and there are conflicting results. To investigate the contribution of oral factors to changes in intake induced by K(+) deficiency, we conducted two experiments using 20-s &quot;brief access&quot; tests. In Experiment 1, K(+)-deprived rats licked less for water than did replete rats. After adjusting for this difference, K(+)-deprived rats exhibited increased licking for 100 mM CaCl(2), 100 mM MgCl(2), and 100 mM FeCl(2) compared with K(+)-replete rats. In Experiment 2, which used larger rats, the K(+)-deprived and replete groups licked equally for water, 500 mM Na.Gluconate, 350 mM KCl, 500 mM KHCO(3), and 1 mM quinine.HCl, but the K(+)-deprived rats licked more for 500 mM KCl, 500 mM CsCl, and 500 mM NaCl than did the replete rats. Licking was unaffected by addition to NaCl of 200 muM amiloride, an epithelial Na(+) channel (ENaC) blocker, or 100 muM ruthenium red, a vanilloid receptor 1 (VR-1) antagonist, or by addition to KCl of 50 muM 4-aminopyridine, a K(+) channel blocker. These findings suggest that K(+)-deprivation produces a non-specific appetite that is guided by oral factors. We found no evidence that this response was mediated by ENaC, VR-1, or K(+) channels in taste receptor cells.
Recently, it was shown that the orexigenic effect of melanin-concentrating hormone (MCH) is attenuated by estradiol treatment in ovariectomized (OVX) rats. This suggests that female rats may be less responsive than male rats to the behavioral effects of MCH. To investigate this hypothesis, the effects of lateral ventricular infusions of MCH on food intake, water intake, meal patterns, and running wheel activity were examined in male and female rats. To further characterize the impact of estradiol on MCH-induced food intake, female rats were OVX and tested with and without 17-beta-estradiol benzoate (EB) replacement. In support of our hypothesis, food and water intakes following MCH treatment were greater in male rats, relative to female rats. Specifically, the orexigenic effect of MCH was maximal in male rats and minimal in EB-treated OVX rats. In both sexes, the orexigenic effect of MCH was mediated by a selective increase in meal size, which was attenuated in EB-treated OVX rats. MCH-induced a short-term (2 h) decrease in wheel running that, unlike its effects on ingestive behavior, was similar in males and females. Thus, estradiol decreases some, but not all, of the behavioral effects of MCH. To examine the influence of endogenous estradiol, food intake was monitored following MCH treatment in ovarian-intact, cycling rats. As predicted by our findings in OVX rats, the orexigenic effect of MCH was attenuated in estrous rats, relative to diestrous rats. We conclude that the female rat's reduced sensitivity to the orexigenic effect of MCH may contribute to sex- and estrous cycle-related differences in food intake.
Lesions or pharmacological inhibition of the lateral septum reduce rats' open-arm avoidance in the elevated plus-maze and their burying behavior in the shock-probe test. The current study examined whether hypothalamic areas that receive direct input from the lateral septum also influence open-arm avoidance and defensive burying. Bilateral infusions of the GABA-A receptor agonist muscimol (20 ng) into the lateral hypothalamus selectively increased rats' open-arm avoidance without affecting shock-probe burying. In contrast, infusions of muscimol into the anterior hypothalamic nucleus suppressed burying without affecting rats' open-arm avoidance. These dissociations suggest that the lateral hypothalamus contributes to the exploration of potentially threatening environments, whereas the anterior hypothalamus influences defensive responses to proximal discrete threat stimuli.
We investigated relationships between circulating levels of salivary testosterone and the fundamental and formant frequencies of male voices in a sample of forty healthy adult males, who recorded their voices and provided saliva samples at 9 am, 12 noon and 3 pm on a single day. The relationship between 2D:4D ratio as a putative biomarker of prenatal testosterone and vocal parameters was also explored. Results supported previous findings for a negative relationship between circulating levels of testosterone and fundamental frequency, with higher testosterone indicating lower fundamental frequency, although the magnitude of the relationship was larger than previously observed. Some limited evidence for a relationship between circulating testosterone and formant dispersion is also found, although this did not reach significance. Diurnal variation in testosterone and fundamental frequency, but not formant dispersion was reported, together with a trend towards an association between the fall in testosterone and the rise in fundamental frequency. Finally, there was no relationship between 2D:4D and the vocal parameters. It is thought that male voices may have deepened over the course of evolution in order to signal dominance and/or to increase the speaker's attractiveness. Findings confirm that vocal frequencies may provide an honest signal of the speaker's hormonal quality.
It has been proposed that one route of behavioral evolution involves novel regulation of conserved genes. Age-related division of labor in honey bee colonies, a highly derived behavioral system, involves the performance of different feeding-related tasks by different groups of individuals. Older bees acquire the colony's food by foraging for nectar and pollen, and the younger &quot;nurse&quot; bees feed larvae processed foods. The transition from hive work to foraging has been shown to be socially regulated and associated both with decreases in abdominal lipid stores and with increases in brain expression of genes implicated in feeding behavior in Drosophila melanogaster. Here we show that division of labor is influenced by a canonical regulator of food intake and energy balance in solitary species, the insulin/insulin-like growth factor signaling (IIS) pathway. Foragers had higher levels of IIS gene expression in the brain and abdomen than did nurses, despite their low lipid stores. These differences are likely nutritionally mediated because manipulations that induced low lipid stores in young bees also up-regulated these genes. Changes in IIS also causally influenced the timing of behavioral maturation: inhibition of the insulin-related target of rapamycin pathway delayed the onset of foraging in a seasonally dependent manner. In addition, pathway analyses of microarray data revealed that nurses and foragers differ in brain energy metabolism gene expression, but the differences are opposite predictions based on their insulin-signaling status. These results suggest that changes in the regulation of the IIS pathway are associated with social behavior.
Visual object-recognition is thought to involve activation of a distributed network of cortical regions, nodes of which include the lateral prefrontal cortex, the so-called lateral occipital complex (LOC), and the hippocampal formation. It has been proposed that long-range oscillatory synchronization is a major mode of coordinating such a distributed network. Here, intracranial recordings were made from three humans as they performed a challenging visual object-recognition task that required them to identify barely recognizable fragmented line-drawings of common objects. Subdural electrodes were placed over the prefrontal cortex and LOC, and depth electrodes were placed within the hippocampal formation. Robust beta-band coherence was evident in all subjects during processing of recognizable fragmented images. Significantly lower coherence was evident during processing of unrecognizable scrambled versions of the same. The results indicate that transient beta-band oscillatory coupling between these three distributed cortical regions may reflect a mechanism for effective communication during visual object processing.
Primary cilia are ubiquitous cellular appendages that provide important yet not well understood sensory and signaling functions. Ciliary dysfunction underlies numerous human genetic disorders. However, the precise defects in cilia function and the basis of disease pathophysiology remain unclear. Here, we report that the proteins disrupted in the human ciliary disorder Bardet-Biedl syndrome (BBS) are required for the localization of G protein-coupled receptors to primary cilia on central neurons. We demonstrate a lack of ciliary localization of somatostatin receptor type 3 (Sstr3) and melanin-concentrating hormone receptor 1 (Mchr1) in neurons from mice lacking the Bbs2 or Bbs4 gene. Because Mchr1 is involved in the regulation of feeding behavior and BBS is associated with hyperphagia-induced obesity, our results suggest that altered signaling caused by mislocalization of ciliary signaling proteins underlies the BBS phenotypes. Our results also provide a potential molecular mechanism to link cilia defects with obesity.
The small GTPase Rac controls cell morphology, gene expression, and reactive oxygen species formation. Manipulations of Rac activity levels in the cerebellum result in motor coordination defects, but activators of Rac in the cerebellum are unknown. P-Rex family guanine-nucleotide exchange factors activate Rac. We show here that, whereas P-Rex1 expression within the brain is widespread, P-Rex2 is specifically expressed in the Purkinje neurons of the cerebellum. We have generated P-Rex2(-/-) and P-Rex1(-/-)/P-Rex2(-/-) mice, analyzed their Purkinje cell morphology, and assessed their motor functions in behavior tests. The main dendrite is thinned in Purkinje cells of P-Rex2(-/-) pups and dendrite structure appears disordered in Purkinje cells of adult P-Rex2(-/-) and P-Rex1(-/-)/P-Rex2(-/-) mice. P-Rex2(-/-) mice show a mild motor coordination defect that progressively worsens with age and is more pronounced in females than in males. P-Rex1(-/-)/P-Rex2(-/-) mice are ataxic, with reduced basic motor activity and abnormal posture and gait, as well as impaired motor coordination even at a young age. We conclude that P-Rex1 and P-Rex2 are important regulators of Purkinje cell morphology and cerebellar function.
Studies have shown that acoustic experiences significantly contribute to the functional shaping of the structural organization and signal processing capacities of the mammalian auditory system during postnatal development. Here, we show how an early epoch of exposure to structured noise influences temporal processing in the rat primary auditory cortex documented immediately after exposure and again in adulthood. Pups were continuously exposed to broadband-pulsed noise across the critical period for auditory system development. Immediately after cessation of exposure at postnatal day approximately 35 (P35) or approximately 55 days later (i.e., P90) in other rats, the temporal modulation-transfer functions of cortical neurons were documented. We found that pulsed noise exposure at a low modulation rate significantly decreased cortical responses to repetitive stimuli presented across a range of higher modulation rates. The highest temporal rate at which temporal modulation-transfer function was at half of its maximum was reduced when compared with nave rats. Low-rate pulsed noise exposure also decreased cortical response synchronization at higher stimulus rates, as shown by vector strength and Rayleigh statistic measures. These postexposure changes endured into adulthood. These findings bear significant implications for the role of early sound experiences as contributors to the ontogeny of human auditory and language-related abilities and impairments.
Genetically encoded sensors of glutamate concentration are based on FRET between cyan and yellow fluorescent proteins bracketing a bacterial glutamate-binding protein. Such sensors have yet to find quantitative applications in neurons, because of poor response amplitude in physiological buffers or when expressed on the neuronal cell surface. We have improved our glutamate-sensing fluorescent reporter (GluSnFR) by systematic optimization of linker sequences and glutamate affinities. Using SuperGluSnFR, which exhibits a 6.2-fold increase in response magnitude over the original GluSnFR, we demonstrate quantitative optical measurements of the time course of synaptic glutamate release, spillover, and reuptake in cultured hippocampal neurons with centisecond temporal and spine-sized spatial resolution. During burst firing, functionally significant spillover persists for hundreds of milliseconds. These glutamate levels appear sufficient to prime NMDA receptors, potentially affecting dendritic spike initiation and computation. Stimulation frequency-dependent modulation of spillover suggests a mechanism for nonsynaptic neuronal communication.
Fragile X syndrome (FXS) has so far resisted efforts to define the basic cellular defects caused by the absence of a single protein, fragile X mental retardation protein (FMRP), because the patients have a wide variety of symptoms of varying severity. Immature-appearing dendritic spines on neurons found in FXS patients and fmr1-KO mice suggest a role for FMRP in modulating production of synaptic structural proteins. We isolated cortical synaptoneurosomes from WT and KO mice and studied MAPK pathway activation after group I metabotropic glutamate receptor (mGluR) stimulation. Here, we show that ERK in KO synaptoneurosomes is rapidly dephosphorylated upon mGluR1/5 stimulation, whereas it is phosphorylated in WT mice, suggesting that aberrant activation of phosphatases occurs in KO synapses in response to synaptic stimulation. In KO synapses, protein phosphatase 2A (PP2A) is overactivated after mGluR1 stimulation, and tyrosine phosphatase is overactivated after mGluR5 stimulation, causing the rapid deactivation of ERK. ERK activation can be restored in KO by pretreatment with phosphatase blockers; blocking of PP2A by okadaic acid could successfully restore normal ERK activation in KO synaptoneurosomes. We propose that overactivation of phosphatases in synapses may be a key deficit in FXS, which affects synaptic translation, transcription, and synaptic receptor regulation.
Anxiety-related behaviors were evaluated across various tests in a large sample (n=787, both sexes) of genetically heterogeneous (N/Nih-HS) rats, derived from an eight-way cross of inbred strains. These tests either evoke unlearned (black-white box, BWB-; novel-cage activity, NACT-; elevated &quot;zero&quot; maze, ZM-; baseline acoustic startle response, BAS-) or learned (fear-potentiated startle, FPS-; two-way active-shuttle box-avoidance acquisition, SHAV-) anxious/fearful responses. The results showed that, with the exception of fear-potentiated startle, almost all (unlearned and learned) behaviors assessed fit with a pattern of sex effects characterized by male rats as being more fearful than females. We applied factor analyses (oblique rotation) to each sex, with the final two-factor solution showing: (1) a first factor (labelled as &quot;Timidity&quot;) comprising BWB, NACT and ZM variables in both sexes, plus SHAV responding in the case of males, and (2) a second factor (called &quot;Defensive Flight&quot;) which grouped BAS, FPS, and SHAV responding in both sexes. An additional regression analysis showed significant influences of (unlearned) risk assessment (i.e. stretch-attendance) behavior on SHAV in males, while FPS was the main variable positively influencing SHAV (in the intermediate and advanced phases of acquisition) in females. This indicates, for the first time, that fear-potentiated startle may have a facilitating role in the rat's active responses (at least in females) to the cue in the intermediate to advanced phases (i.e. when the initial &quot;passive avoidance/active avoidance&quot; begins to fade) of shuttle box avoidance acquisition. The results of this first extensive behavioral evaluation of N/Nih-HS rats are discussed in terms of their potential usefulness for present and future neurobehavioral and genetic studies of fearfulness/anxiety.
Here we examined immediate early gene (ZENK) induction to vocalizations in the ascending auditory pathway of black-capped chickadees (Poecile atricapillus) to assess the impact that the sex of the producer and perceiver has on ZENK induction. We manipulated the playback by both the vocal type (song/call) and sex of producer (male/female), and then presented these stimuli classes to either male or female black-capped chickadees. Neural response to the stimulus was quantified by the amount of protein of the IEG ZENK (also known as zif-268, egr-1, ngf-Ia and krox-24) in the caudal medial nidopallium (NCM) and caudomedial mesopallium (CMM). Overall, there was more ZENK induction in CMM and the dorsal parts of the caudal medial nidopallium (NCMd) than in the ventral parts of the caudal medial nidopallium (NCMv) and males had more ZENK induction than females. CMM had the most complex responding of ZENK induction to stimuli such that vocalization type, sex of producer, and sex of perceiver all affected ZENK induction. The silence controls had the least ZENK induction compared to any other group.
Social interactions have previously been shown to influence stroke outcome. In the current experiment we investigated the effects of a changing social environment on anatomical and behavioral recovery following motor cortex stroke in rats. Adult rats were trained on the Whishaw single pellet reaching task prior to receiving a devascularizing stroke lesion of the motor cortex. During the post-stroke testing period half of the rats were exposed to a form of social experience that has previously been shown to stimulate synaptic plasticity in frontal cortex circuitry, whereas the remaining rats were housed in pairs, in standard cages. At the end of the experiment the brains were processed for Golgi-Cox staining and dendritic length was measured in layer V of the intact forelimb motor area, layer III of Zilles' area Cg3 and layer II/III of Zilles' area AID. Social experience was found to completely block the normal spontaneous behavioural restitution in the lesion animals. Anatomically, whereas social experience selectively increased dendritic length in AID in rats that had not undergone behavioral training or the stroke procedure, this was not seen in the lesion animals, as the lesion alone produced an increase in dendritic length in both AID and Cg3. The findings are discussed in terms of the role of social experiences, including stress, on spontaneous plasticity that occurs following unilateral motor cortex stroke, and the effectiveness of inducing synaptic plasticity to promote behavioural recovery.
Zebrafish (zebra danio) are becoming increasingly popular in behavioral neuroscience and behavior genetics. This small vertebrate may be utilized in modeling human brain disorders. One of the major neuropsychiatric conditions still not well understood is abnormally increased fear and anxiety. Zebrafish may be an appropriate organism with which these human diseases can be modeled and their biological mechanisms investigated. Predator induced anxiety paradigms have been suggested as useful methods in translational research. Shoaling fish, such as zebrafish, are known to respond to alarm substances with antipredatory or alarm reactions. However, these responses are not well characterized in zebrafish. In the current paper, we investigate the behavioral responses of zebrafish elicited by its alarm substance. Using observation-based as well as video-tracking aided behavior quantification methods we demonstrate significant alarm substance-induced behavioral changes that are independent of the presence of a predatory fish stimulus. The results suggest that, once refined, the use of alarm substance with zebrafish will allow the development of high throughput behavioral paradigms for drug and mutation screening aimed at the analysis of the biological mechanisms of fear in vertebrates.
We aimed to investigate the brain areas engaged in observation of hand movements with the intention of imitation or judging movement velocity. Both processes reflect different analytic approaches in movement observation. We were interested if these two processes can be distinguished or share common activation foci. Twelve healthy, right-handed volunteers were required to observe video clips of hand gestures and of object related grasping movements while the regional cerebral blood flow was measured using positron emission tomography. The subjects were instructed either to imitate the actions or to judge the velocity of the observed movements after scanning. Action observation with the instruction to judge movement velocity engaged bilaterally the temporo-occipital junction and adjacent visual cortical areas. In contrast, observation with the instruction to imitate them afterwards, yielded large activation clusters covering the left parietal and premotor cortex. Both contrasts demonstrated activation in the inferior frontal cortex, however, on opposite sides. Results suggest that movement observation with the goal of imitation activated specific areas of the parietal cortex in the dominant hemisphere probably related to programming of the movement kinematics. In contrast, observation with the goal to characterize the velocity of the finger movements activated the ventral visual pathways. Thus, movement observation recruits non-overlapping cortical networks, depending on the information attended to which are characterised by a dorsal ventral dissociation.
Therapeutic vaccination is a potentially powerful strategy to establish immune control and eradicate persistent viral infections. Large and multifunctional antiviral T cell responses are associated with control of viral persistence; however, for reasons that were mostly unclear, current therapeutic vaccination approaches to restore T cell immunity and control viral infection have been ineffective. Herein, we confirmed that neutralization of the immunosuppressive factor interleukin (IL)-10 stimulated T cell responses and improved control of established persistent lymphocytic choriomeningitis virus (LCMV) infection. Importantly, blockade of IL-10 also allowed an otherwise ineffective therapeutic DNA vaccine to further stimulate antiviral immunity, thereby increasing T cell responses and enhancing clearance of persistent LCMV replication. We therefore propose that a reason that current therapeutic vaccination strategies fail to resurrect/sustain T cell responses is because they do not alleviate the immunosuppressive environment. Consequently, blocking key suppressive factors could render ineffective vaccines more efficient at improving T cell immunity, and thereby allow immune-mediated control of persistent viral infection.
Sustained delivery of neuroactive agents is widely used in neuroscience, but poses many technical challenges. It is necessary to deliver the agent with high precision while minimizing localized trauma and inflammation. Also, the ability to customize the system to accommodate animals of different species and sizes is desirable. This video presentation demonstrates the construction of an infusion system that can be fitted to any particular research animal. The delivery microcannula diameter is approximately 10-fold smaller than most infusion cannulas presently used. This translates into enhanced accuracy and reduced trauma to the brain region under study. The delivery cannula can also be sculpted to fit the contour of the surface of the animal's skull, thereby allowing closure of the scalp incision neatly over the infusion system, precluding the need for a skull-mounted pedestal, reducing risk of infection, and ensuring a greater level of comfort to the animal. The system is assembled in an air-free environment and requires the researcher to fashion glass micropipettes with a heat source. These construction methods require special skills that are best acquired, if not in person, using video instruction.
: Asthma has long been considered a condition in which psychological factors have a role. As in many illnesses, psychological variables may affect outcome in asthma via their effects on treatment adherence and symptom reporting. Emerging evidence suggests that the relation between asthma and psychological factors may be more complex than that, however. Central cognitive processes may influence not only the interpretation of asthma symptoms but also the manifestation of measurable changes in immune and physiologic markers of asthma. Furthermore, asthma and major depressive disorder share several risk factors and have similar patterns of dysregulation in key biologic systems, including the neuroendocrine stress response, cytokines, and neuropeptides. Despite the evidence that depression is common in people with asthma and exerts a negative impact on outcome, few treatment studies have examined whether improving symptoms of depression do, in fact, result in better control of asthma symptoms or improved quality of life in patients with asthma.

Kv1.1 channels are expressed in many regions of the brain and spinal cord [Monaghan, M. M.; Trimmer, J. S.; Rhodes, K. J. J. Neurosci.2001, 21, 5973; Rasband, M. N.; Trimmer, J. S. J. Comp. Neurol.2001, 429, 166; Trimmer, J. S.; Rhodes, K. J. Ann. Rev. Physiol.2004, 66, 477]. When expressed alone, they produce a delayed rectifier slowly inactivating type current that contributes to hyperpolarizing the neuron following depolarization. In the hippocampus Kv1.1 is co-expressed with Kvbeta1 (and other beta subunits), which converts Kv1.1 into a transient, fast inactivating current, reducing its ability to hyperpolarize the cell and thus increasing neuronal excitability. To reduce neuronal excitability, screening for compounds that prevent inactivation of Kv1.1 channels by Kvbeta1 was performed using a yeast two-hybrid screen. A variety of compounds were discovered in this assay and subsequently determined to disrupt inactivation of the ionic currents, and hence were termed 'disinactivators'. Several of these disinactivators also inhibited pentylenetetrazole-induced seizures (PTZ) in mice. Compounds were found to act by several mechanisms to prevent Kvbeta1 inactivation of Kv1.1 channels, including enhancement of Ca(2+) release/influx and by direct mechanisms. Two structural classes were identified that act on a Kvbeta1N70-Kv1.1 chimera where the N-terminal 70 amino acids of Kvbeta1 were attached to the N-terminus of Kv1.1. It is likely that these disinactivators act directly on the Kvbeta1 N-terminus or its receptor site on Kv1.1, thus preventing it from blocking Kv1.1 channels. Compounds acting by this mechanism may be useful for reducing neuronal hyperexcitability in diseases such as epilepsy and neuropathic pain.
Potent small molecule antagonists for the PAC(1)-R have been discovered. Previously known antagonists for the PAC(1)-R were slightly truncated peptide ligands. The hydrazides reported here are the first small molecule antagonists ever reported for this class B GPCR.
The migratory properties of dendritic cells (DCs) are important for their functions. Although several chemokines and their receptors have been implicated in DC migration, the downstream signaling molecules are largely unknown. Here we show that DOCK2, a hematopoietic cell-specific CDM family protein, is indispensable for migration of plasmacytoid DCs (pDCs), but not myeloid DCs (mDCs). Although DOCK2-deficiency did not affect development of pDCs, DOCK2-deficient (DOCK2(-/-)) mice exhibited a severe reduction of pDCs in the spleen and lymph nodes. Adoptive transfer experiments revealed that DOCK2(-/-) pDCs failed to migrate into the periarteriolar lymphoid sheaths of the spleen. In DOCK2(-/-) pDCs, chemokine-induced Rac activation was severely impaired, resulting in the reduction of motility and the loss of polarity during chemotaxis. In contrast, DOCK2(-/-) mDCs did not show any defects in Rac activation and migration. These results indicate that pDCs and mDCs use distinct molecules to activate Rac during chemotaxis.
During development, the semaphorin family of guidance molecules is required for proper formation of the sympathetic nervous system. Plexins are receptors that mediate semaphorin signaling, but how plexins function during sympathetic development is not fully understood. Using phenotypic analyses of mutant mice in vivo, expression pattern studies, and in vitro assays, we show that plexin-A3 and plexin-A4 are essential for normal sympathetic development. This study confirms our previous in vitro findings that the two plexins differentially regulate the guidance of sympathetic axons. In addition, we find that semaphorin signaling through plexin-A3 and plexin-A4 restricts the migration of sympathetic neurons, but these two plexins function redundantly since migration defects are only observed in plexin-A3/-A4 double mutants. Surprisingly, our analysis also indicates that plexin-A3 and plexin-A4 are not required for guiding neural crest precursors prior to reaching the sympathetic anlagen. Immunoprecipitation studies suggest that these two plexins independently mediate secreted semaphorin signaling. Thus, plexin-A3 and plexin-A4 are expressed in newly-differentiated sympathetic neurons, but not their neural crest precursors. They function cooperatively to regulate the migration of sympathetic neurons and then differentially to guide the sympathetic axons.
Classic cadherins are cell adhesion molecules whose expression patterns are dynamically modulated in association with their diverse functions during morphogenesis. The large size and complexity of cadherin loci have made it a challenge to investigate the organization of cis-regulatory modules that control their spatiotemporal patterns of expression. Towards this end, we utilized bacterial artificial chromosomes (BACs) containing the Cdh6 gene, a mouse type II classic cadherin, to systematically identify cis-regulatory modules that govern its expression. By inserting a lacZ reporter gene into the Cdh6 BAC and generating a series of modified variants via homologous recombination or transposon insertions that have been examined in transgenic mice, we identified an array of genomic regions that contribute to specific regulation of the gene. These regions span approximately 350 kb of the locus between 161-kb upstream and 186-kb downstream of the Cdh6 transcription start site. Distinct modules independently regulate compartmental expression (i.e. forebrain, hindbrain rhombomeres, and spinal cord) and/or cell lineage-specific expression patterns (i.e. neural crest subpopulations such as Schwann cells) of Cdh6 at the early developmental stages. With respect to regulation of expression in neural crest cells, we have found that distinct regions contribute to different aspects of expression and have identified a short 79-bp region that is implicated in regulating expression in cells once they have emigrated from the neural tube. These results build a picture of the complex organization of Cdh6 cis-regulatory modules and highlight the diverse inputs that contribute to its dynamic expression during early mouse embryonic development.
Synthesis of glutathione, a major redox regulator, is compromised in schizophrenia. We postulated that the resulting glutathione deficit via its effect on redox-sensitive proteins could contribute to dysfunction of some neurotransmitter systems in schizophrenia. We investigated whether a glutathione deficit, induced by a blocker of glutathione synthesis, L-buthionine-(S,R)-sulfoximine, affects intracellular pathways implicated in dopamine signaling in neurons, namely dopamine modulation of calcium responses to NMDA. Such a glutathione deficit changed the modulation of responses by dopamine, from enhanced responses in control neurons (likely via D1-type receptors) to decreased responses in low-glutathione neurons (via D2-type receptors). This difference in dopamine modulation was due to a different modulation of L-type calcium channels activated during NMDA stimulation: dopamine enhanced function of these channels in control neurons but decreased it in low-glutathione neurons. The effect of a glutathione deficit on dopamine signaling was dependent on the redox-sensitive ryanodine receptors (RyRs), whose function was enhanced in low-glutathione neurons. This suggests that enhanced RyRs in low-glutathione neurons strengthens intracellular calcium-dependent pathways following activation of D2-type receptors and causes a decrease in function of L-type channels. This represents a mechanism by which dopaminergic systems could be dysfunctional under conditions of impaired glutathione synthesis as in schizophrenia.
In a case-control study involving 400 study subjects, we found a higher prevalence of restless legs syndrome (RLS) in our Parkinson's disease (PD) patients compared to controls (3.0% vs 0.5%) (odds ratio 6.2) (p=0.07). Polysomnographic studies confirmed that study subjects with RLS had grossly elevated PLMS index, PLMS arousal index and reduced sleep efficiency. None of these PD patients reported a family history of PD or RLS. The average age of onset of RLS was 61.7+/-10.8 years old. The mean global Pittsburgh Sleep Quality Index (PSQI) score of PD patients was significantly higher than the controls (9.1+/-4.5 vs 4.3+/-2.8, p&lt;0.0001). All the seven components of PSQI in PD patients were significantly different from controls (p&lt;0.0001). Multivariate analysis revealed that only Hoehn and Yahr staging correlated with the global PSQI score (p&lt;0.0001). Similar results were obtained when we compared the PSQI score between PD patients without RLS with controls. Our case-control study demonstrated a weak association between RLS and PD. PD patients have significant poor quality of sleep, and this correlated with the severity of PD. RLS did not play an important role in sleep dysfunction in our PD cohort. A high index of suspicion for sleep problems in advanced PD patients is important as early management could improve their quality of life.
A standard goal of many neurophysiological investigations is to obtain enough insight into a neuron's behavior that it becomes possible to predict responses to arbitrary stimuli. Techniques have been developed to solve this system identification problem, and the numerical method presented here adds to this toolbox. Stimuli and responses, beginning as functions of time, are transformed to complex-valued functions of both time and temporal frequency, giving amplitude and phase at each frequency and time point. The transformation is implemented by wavelets. The kernel describing the system is then derived by simply dividing the response wavelet by the stimulus wavelet. The results are averaged over time, incorporating median filtering to remove artifacts. Estimated kernels match well to the actual kernels, with little data needed. Noise tolerance is excellent, and the method works on a wide range of kernels and stimulus types. The algorithm is easy to implement and understand, but can be applied broadly.
Preferential exploration of novel locations and objects by rodents has been used to test the effects of various manipulations on object recognition memory. However, manual scoring is time-consuming, requires extensive training, and is subject to inter-observer variability. Since rodents explore primarily by sniffing, we assessed the ability of new nose-point video tracking software (NPVT) to automatically collect object recognition data. Mice performed a novel object/novel location task and data collected by NPVT, two expert observers, and one inexperienced observer were compared. Percent time spent exploring the objects were correlated between the two expert observers and between NPVT and the two expert observers. In contrast, the inexperienced observer showed no correlation with either expert observer or NPVT. NPVT collected more reliable data compared to the inexperienced observer. NPVT and the expert observers gave similar group averages for arbitrarily assigned groups of mice, whereas the analysis of the inexperienced observer gave different results. Finally, NPVT generated valid results in a NO/NL experiment comparing mice expressing human apolipoprotein E3 versus E4, a risk factor for age-related cognitive decline. Video tracking with nose-point detection generates useful analyses of rodent object recognition task performance and possibly for other behavioral tests.
Synchronization of oscillatory EEG signals across different frequency bands is receiving waxing interest in cognitive neuroscience and neurophysiology, and cross-frequency coupling is being increasingly linked to cognitive and perceptual processes. Several methods exist to examine cross-frequency coupling, although each has its limitations, typically by being flexible only over time or over frequency. Here, a method for assessing transient cross-frequency coupling is presented, which allows one to test for the presence of multiple, dynamic, and flexible cross-frequency coupling structure over both time and frequency. The method is applied to intracranial EEG data, and strong coupling between gamma ( approximately 40-80 Hz) and upper theta ( approximately 7-9 Hz) was observed. This method might have useful applications in uncovering the electrophysiological correlates of cognitive processes.
This protocol presents an improved method for SPECT imaging based on multi-pinhole techniques, applied to the visualisation of neurotracers in small animal models. Three types of collimators with 6-pinhole apertures adapted to special requirements for the imaging of the brain of mice and rats and to full body imaging in mice are employed in the experiments. A conventional triple-headed TRIAD/Trionix SPECT system was upgraded with pyramidal supports and shieldings onto the multi-pinhole collimators were installed. The system was employed for the assessment of the uptake of [123I]FP-CIT and [123I]IBZM, well known tracers of dopamine transport and dopamine D2/D3 receptors, respectively. Requirements regarding the applied radioactivity are reported, as well as further conditions determining the effectiveness of the detection of the uptake of [123I]FP-CIT and [123I]IBZM. The measurements in mice required only 20-25% of the activity described in previous studies. Dynamic measurements are presented, with a time resolution as high as 10 min in the brain of rats. Due to the lower signal intensity obtained for mice, the time resolution was 42min for [123I]FP-CIT, with a ratio ROI/background of 5.4, and 17 min for [123I]IBZM, with the ratio ROI/background of 4.5 (1.6-7.4).


Woodhouse Sakati syndrome is a rare autosomal recessive neuroendocrine disorder characterized by the combination of alopecia, hypogonadism, diabetes mellitus, mental retardation, sensory neural deafness and extrapyramidal features. Movement disorders mainly consist of dystonia and chorea of the limbs with onset in adolescence. Facial muscles are usually spared, but dysarthria is common. Pyramidal features and peripheral abnormalities are inconsistent features. Most of the reported families are from the Middle Eastern countries although rarely Caucasian cases have been described. Here we present clinical details of two affected siblings from a new Middle East family and draw attention of movement disorder specialists to this entity. We summarize findings from pervious cases with particular focus on neurological and movement disorder features.
The objective of this study was to compare efficacy, safety, and duration of botulinum toxin type A (BoNT-A) and type B (BoNT-B) in toxin-nave cervical dystonia (CD) subjects. BoNT-nave CD subjects were randomized to BoNT-A or BoNT-B and evaluated in a double-blind trial at baseline and every 4-weeks following one treatment. The primary measure was the change in Toronto Western Spasmodic Torticollis Rating Scale (TWSTRS) from baseline to week 4 post-injection. Secondary measures included change in TWSTRS-subscale scores, pain, global impressions, and duration of response and safety assessments. The study was designed as a noninferiority trial of BoNT-B to BoNT-A. 111 subjects were randomized (55 BoNT-A; 56 BoNT-B). Improvement in TWSTRS-total scores 4 weeks after BoNT-B was noninferior to BoNT-A (adjusted means 11.0 (SE 1.2) and 8.8 (SE 1.2), respectively; per-protocol-population (PPP)). The median duration of effect of BoNT-A and BoNT-B was not different (13.1 vs. 13.7 weeks, respectively; P-value = 0.833; PPP). There were no significant differences in the occurrence of injection site pain and dysphagia. Mild dry mouth was more frequent with BoNT-B but there were no differences for moderate/severe dry mouth. In this study, both BoNT-A and B were shown to be effective and safe for the treatment of toxin-naive CD subjects.
The validity, sensitivity, and specificity of depressive symptoms for the diagnosis of major depression, minor depression, dysthymic disorder, and subsyndromal depression in Parkinson's disease (PD) were examined. A consecutive series of 173 patients with PD attending a Movement Disorders Clinic underwent a comprehensive psychiatric and neurological assessment. The symptoms of loss of interest/pleasure, changes in appetite or weight, changes in sleep, low energy, worthlessness or inappropriate guilt, psychomotor retardation/agitation, concentration deficits, and suicide ideation were all significantly associated with the presence of the DSM-IV depressed mood criterion for major depression. The symptoms of changes in appetite, changes in sleep, low energy, low self-esteem, poor concentration, and hopelessness were all significantly associated with the presence of the DSM-IV criterion of sad mood for dysthymic disorder. Thirty percent of our sample met DSM-IV diagnostic criteria for major depression, 20% met diagnostic criteria for dysthymic disorder, 10% met diagnostic criteria for minor depression, and 8% met clinical criteria for subsyndromal depression. Patients with either major or minor depression had significantly more severe deficits in activities of daily living, more severe cognitive impairments, and more severe Parkinsonism than patients with either dysthymic disorder or no depression. This study provides validation to the DSM-IV diagnostic criteria for major depression and dysthymic disorder for use in PD. The categories of minor and subsyndromal depression may need further validation.
The activity of hypoxia-inducible factors-1alpha (HIF-1alpha) is regulated by two types of hydroxylases, prolyl-hydroxylase (PHD) and aspargynyl-hydroxylase factor inhibiting HIF-1alpha (FIH). Hydroxylation of HIF-1alpha by PHD and FIH causes proteasomal degradation and transcriptional inhibition of HIF-1alpha, respectively. Siah ubiquitin ligases regulate the abundance of PHD via targeting for proteasomal degradation. The present study investigated the role of Siah-1 in the regulation of FIH abundance under normoxic conditions. Immunohistochemical analysis of the rat brains revealed that both Siah-1 and FIH were widely distributed in the central nervous system including the cerebral cortex, the hippocampus, the striatum, the olfactory bulb, the putamen, the thalamus, the celleberum, and the brain stem. In the hippocampus, both Siah-1 and FIH predominantly expressed in neurons. Siah-1 and FIH localized mostly in the cytoplasm. In mammalian cells, FIH expression levels were increased in the presence of a proteasomal inhibitor MG132, suggesting that FIH is degraded by the ubiquitin-proteasome system. Immunoprecipitation assay and ubiquitination assay revealed that Siah-1 interacted with, and ubiquitinated FIH. Under normoxic conditions, Siah-1 facilitated degradation of FIH. On the other hand, when endogenous Siah-1 expression was suppressed using siRNA, FIH expression levels were increased, as compared to control. These results suggest that Siah-1 might play a role as a regulator of FIH abundance under normoxic conditions.
Flow cytometry and terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase-mediated biotinylated uridine triphosphate nick end-labelling (TUNEL) immunohistochemistry have been used to assess cell death in the dorsal root ganglia (DRG) or spinal cord 1, 2 or 14 days after multiple lumbar dorsal root rhizotomy or dorsal root avulsion injury in adult rats. Neither injury induced significant cell death in the DRG compared to sham-operated or nave animals at any time point. In the spinal cord, a significant increase in death was seen at 1-2 days, but not 14 days, post injury by both methods. TUNEL staining revealed that more apoptotic cells were present in the dorsal columns and dorsal horn of avulsion animals compared to rhizotomised animals. This suggests that avulsion injury, which can often partially damage the spinal cord, has more severe effects on cell survival than rhizotomy, a surgical lesion which does not affect the spinal cord. The location of TUNEL positive cells suggests that both neuronal and non-neuronal cells are dying.
The aim of this study was to investigate the effect of extremely low-frequency electromagnetic field (ELF-EMF) exposure during morphine treatment on dopamine D2 receptor (D2R) density in the rat dorsal hippocampus following withdrawal. Rats were exposed to ELF-EMF (20 Hz, 14 mT) or sham exposed for 1h per day before injection of morphine (10mg/kg, i.p.) once daily for 12 days. The saline control group was sham exposed for the same period. Immunohistochemistry was used to detect the density of D2Rs on the 1st, 3rd and 5th morphine withdrawal days. The results showed that the density of D2Rs in sham-exposed morphine-treated rats on the 1st and 3rd days of morphine withdrawal was significantly lower than that of the saline control group. The ELF-EMF-exposed morphine group also exhibited a significantly lower density of D2Rs on the 1st and 3rd withdrawal days relative to the sham-exposed morphine group. However, the D2R density in both groups tended to recover as morphine withdrawal days increased. The results suggest that dorsal hippocampal D2Rs are sensitive to morphine withdrawal and that this is potentiated by ELF-EMF pre-exposure during morphine treatment.
Sox11 is a transcription factor that is proposed to be involved in the development and regeneration of the brain [M.P. Jankowski, P.K. Cornuet, S. Mcllwrath, H.R. Koerber, K.M. Albers, SRY-box containing gene 11 (Sox11) transcription factor is required for neuron survive and neurite growth, Neuroscience 143 (2006) 501-514]. In this study, we compared the expression patterns of Sox11 and its two putative binding partners, Brn1 and Brn2 during development and following transient forebrain ischemia in the rat. The spatiotemporal expression pattern of Brn1 was similar to that of Sox11 from the late embryonic to postnatal development, and they are strongly expressed in the brain regions where neuronal progenitors and immature neurons are enriched. On the other hand, Brn2 was ubiquitously expressed in most tissues including developing nervous system. Neuronal depolarization of cerebral cortex neurons in vitro enhanced both Sox11 and Brn1 expression, whereas the induction of Brn2 was only marginal, further suggesting the similar transcriptional modulation of Sox11 and Brn1. In the hippocampus, however, they showed a little different expression patterns. The expression of Brn1 was not substantial in developing dentate gyrus (DG) where Sox11 expression was strong. The transient forebrain ischemia enhanced Sox11 gene expression moderately in the CA1 and strongly in the DG, whereas Brn1 was selectively induced only in the CA1 of the hippocampal formation. Collectively, overall results suggest that the expression of Sox11 and Brn1 may be modulated by the cell-type specific machinery.
Studies on the neurotransmitter substrate of locomotion and place navigation occupy a central position in behavioral neuroscience. Active allothetic place avoidance (AAPA) is a task, in which animals are trained to avoid a room frame defined stable sector on a continuously rotating arena. The aim of the present study was to test the effect of the blockage of alpha1- and alpha2-adrenoceptors, using specific antagonists prazosin and idazoxan, on the locomotor activity and spatial behavior in the AAPA task. Both prazosin and idazoxan at the highest doses (4 and 6 mg/kg, respectively) were found to decrease the locomotor activity in the AAPA and they also impaired navigational performance. The results suggest that antagonizing alpha-adrenoceptors with systemically administered drugs affects locomotor activity together with avoidance behavior and does not cause a purely cognitive deficit in the AAPA task.
Obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD) often emerges in childhood or adolescence. The aim of the present study was to evaluate whether adult patients with prepuberal onset differ from subjects with later onset in terms of personality disorder comorbidity. The Structured Clinical Interview for DSM-IV Axis II Disorders was used to assess 148 patients with a principal diagnosis of OCD according to the Structured Clinical Interview for DSM-IV Axis I Disorders. The following two subgroups of subjects were selected according to the age at onset of symptomatology: patients with an early-onset (&lt; or =10 years), and patients with a later onset (&gt; or =17 years). Of the 148 patients screened for the present study, 33 (22.3%) had an early onset and 1369 (46.6%) had a later onset. With regard to personality disorders, early-onset patients showed more OC personality disorders (OCPD) than later onset patients. Our finding suggests that OCD in childhood increases the risk for developing OCPD in adulthood, or that early-onset OCD and OCPD share a common pathogenesis.
Temperament and character were evaluated in patients with panic disorder (PD) before and after 1 year of pharmacological therapy to verify whether personality characteristics change after treatment. Therefore, 65 PD patients and 71 healthy subjects participated in the study. All subjects were evaluated with the SCID-IV, the Temperament and Character Inventory (TCI), the SCL-90, the Ham-A and the Ham-D. Patients were treated with paroxetine or citalopram. The TCI was re-administered to the patients at the end of the study. At the end of the study, complete remission was achieved by 31 patients (R), whereas symptoms did not disappear in the remaining 34 patients (NR). Before treatment, NR patients showed higher levels of harm avoidance (HA) and lower levels of persistence (P), self-directedness (SD) and cooperativeness (C) than healthy controls. Only HA levels were higher than normal in R, although they were significantly lower in R than in NR patients. These differences persisted after treatment. However, in NR patients the levels of SD and C worsened, whereas the difference between R patients and controls in HA levels (higher in R patients than in controls) disappeared after controlling the effect of residual phobic anxiety (higher than normal in R patients). Our data suggest that the high levels of HA found after remission may depend on the subsyndromal residual phobic symptoms, observed in R patients. Moreover, the persistence of anxious symptoms may have worsened the low levels of SD and C observed before treatment in patients who did not achieve remission.
The extent of IQ decline due to the development of illness in patients with chronic schizophrenia and the degree of memory impairment relative to such IQ decline still remain unclear. Our results suggest that schizophrenia patients experience marked IQ decline due to the development of illness and their wide-ranging memory impairments are even more severe than the IQ decline.
Impaired decision-making is a key-feature of many neuropsychiatric disorders. In the present study, we examined task performance in a healthy population consisting of those whose scores indicated high and low impulsivity on several behavioral decision-making tasks reflecting orbitofrontal functioning. The measures included tasks that assess decision-making with and without a learning component and choice flexibility. The results show that subjects high on impulsivity display an overall deficit in their decision-making performance as compared with subjects low on impulsivity. More specifically, subjects with high impulsivity show weaknesses in learning of reward and punishment associations in order to make appropriate decisions (reversal-learning task and Iowa Gambling Task), and impaired adaptation of choice behavior according to changes in stimulus-reward contingencies (reversal-learning task). Simple, non-learning, components of reward- and punishment-based decision-making (Rogers Decision-Making Task) seem to be relatively unaffected. Above all, the results indicate that impulsivity is associated with a decreased ability to alter choice behavior in response to fluctuations in reward contingency. The findings add further evidence to the notion that trait impulsivity is associated with decision-making, a function of the orbitofrontal cortex.
The selection of appropriate surface materials that promote cellular adhesion and growth is an important consideration when designing a simplified neuronal network in vitro. In the past, extracellular matrix proteins such as laminin (LN) or positively charged substances such as poly-l-lysine (PLL) have been used. In this study, we examined the ability of another positively charged polymer, polyethyleneimine (PEI), to promote neuronal adhesion, growth and the formation of a functional neuronal network in vitro. PEI, PLL and LN were used to produce grid-shape patterns on glass coverslips by micro-contact printing. Post-mitotic neurons from the rat fetal hippocampus were cultured on the different polymers and the viability and morphology of these neurons under serum-free culture conditions were observed using fluorescent microscopy and atomic force microscopy (AFM). We show that neurons cultured on the PEI- and PLL-coated surfaces adhered to and extended neurites along the grid-shape patterns, whereas neurons cultured on the LN-coated coverslips clustered into clumps of cells. In addition, we found that the neurons on the PEI and PLL-coated grids survived for more than 2 weeks in serum-free conditions, whereas most neurons cultured on the LN-coated grids died after 1 week. Using AFM, we observed some neurosynapse-like structures near the neuronal soma on PEI-coated coverslips. These findings indicate that PEI is a suitable surface for establishing a functional neuronal network in vitro.
Several forms of hippocampal-dependent learning rely upon activation of the N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA) subtype of glutamate receptor. Here we have investigated the effects of administration of the NMDA receptor antagonist (+/-)-3-(2-carboxypiperazin-4-yl)propyl-1-phosphonic acid (CPP) on the performance of rats in an object displacement task and the possible role of extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK) in this form of learning. The data show that rats injected intraperitoneally with CPP (10 mg/kg) before, but not after, training in the object displacement task displayed impairments in spatial learning when compared with saline-injected controls. The NMDAR may thus be involved in the acquisition, but not the consolidation, of this type of memory. In addition, a significant positive correlation was observed between learning and the expression of activated ERK in the dentate gyrus. No such correlation was apparent in the rest of the hippocampal formation. This study implicates the NMDARs in the acquisition phase of spatial learning and provides evidence for a role for ERK in spatial learning in the dentate gyrus of the rat.
It is known that the activation of 5-hydroxytryptamine receptor type 1A (5HT(1A) receptor) may protect against brain damage induced by transient global ischemia. The biochemical mechanisms that underlie this neuroprotective effect remain however to be fully elucidated. Given that serotonergic drugs may regulate N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA) receptor function, which is implicated in events leading to ischemia-induced neuronal cell death, and also stimulate the expression of brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF), which is down-regulated in cerebral ischemia, we sought to determine the effects of the selective 5-HT1A receptor agonist, 8-hydroxy-2-(di-n-propylamino)tetralin (8-OH-DPAT), on the levels of NMDA receptor NR1 subunit and BDNF in gerbil hippocampus after transient global cerebral ischemia. Pretreatment with 8-OH-DPAT (1 mg/kg) prevented the neuronal loss in CA1 subfield 72 h after ischemia and also the dramatic decrease in BDNF immunoreactivity observed in this area at an earlier time. NMDA receptor NR1 levels in whole hippocampus were not affected 24 h after ischemia, but the levels of the subunit phosphorylated at the protein kinase A (PKA) site, pNR1(Ser897), were significantly increased, and this increase was prevented by the same 8-OH-DPAT dose, a probable consequence of the increased phosphatase 1 (PP1) enzyme activity found in ischemic gerbils pretreated with the 5-HT(1A) receptor agonist. The results indicate that both NR1 subunit phosphorylation and the neurotrophin BDNF account, at least in part, for the neuroprotective effect of 8-OH-DPAT on cell damage induced by global ischemia in the gerbil hippocampus and support the potential interest of 5-HT1A receptor activation in the search for neuroprotective strategies.
The recognition of the impact of neonatal pain experience on subsequent sensory processing has led to the increased advocacy for the use of opioids for pain relief in infants. However, following long-term opioid exposure in intensive care units more than 48% of infants exhibited behaviors indicative of opioid abstinence syndrome, a developmentally equivalent set of behaviors to opioid withdrawal as seen in adults. Little is known about the long-term influence of repeated neonatal morphine exposure on nociception and analgesia. To investigate this, we examined mechanical and thermal nociception on postnatal days 11, 13, 15, 19, 24, 29, 39 and 48 following subcutaneous administration of morphine (3 mg/kg) once daily on postnatal days 1-9. The cumulative morphine dose-response was assessed on postnatal days 20 and 49, and stress-induced analgesia was assessed on postnatal days 29 and 49. Both basal mechanical and thermal nociception in neonatal, morphine-exposed rats were significantly lower than those in saline-exposed, handled-control rats and naive rats until P29. A rightward-shift of cumulative dose-response curves for morphine analgesia upon chronic neonatal morphine was observed both on P20 and P49. The swim stress-induced analgesia was significantly decreased in neonatal morphine-exposed rats on P29, but not on P49. These data indicate that morphine exposure equivalent to the third trimester of gestation produced prolonged pain hypersensitivity, decreased morphine antinociception, and decreased stress-induced analgesia. The present study illustrates the need to examine the long-term influence of prenatal morphine exposure on pain and analgesia in the human pediatric population.
alpha2 adrenoceptors have been shown to regulate the development of dendrites in mammalian cortical neurones. In this study we have investigated how agonists of alpha2 adrenoceptors affect length and density of dendritic spines in cultured cortical neurones from C57/B6 mice. A twenty-four hour incubation of 14 day old cultured neurones with UK 14304, an alpha2-adrenoceptor agonist, resulted in a significant increase in the average length and density of dendritic spines. Furthermore, incubation of neurones with the selective alpha 2A agonist guanfacine resulted in 1.2-fold increase in spine length and 1.8-fold increase in spine density. These effects were blocked by RX 821002 and BRL 44408, alpha2- and alpha 2A-adrenoceptor antagonists, respectively. The observed changes in the density and length of dendritic spines were correlated with increased expression of spinophilin, a key cytoskeletal protein in the formation and maintenance of dendritic spines, and a decrease in the phosphorylation of spinophilin on serine residues. The latter finding points to a possible mechanism by which adrenoceptors may regulate spinophilin function in dendritic spine development and structure in cortical neurones in vitro.
Parkinson disease (PD) belongs to a heterogeneous group of neurodegenerative disorders with movement alterations, cognitive impairment, and alpha-synuclein accumulation in cortical and subcortical regions. Jointly, these disorders are denominated Lewy body disease. Mutations in the parkin gene are the most common cause of familial parkinsonism, and a growing number of studies have shown that stress factors associated with sporadic PD promote parkin accumulation in the insoluble fraction. alpha-Synuclein and parkin accumulation and mutations in these genes have been associated with familial PD. To investigate whether alpha-synuclein accumulation might be involved in the pathogenesis of these disorders by interfering with parkin solubility, synuclein-transfected neuronal cells were transduced with lentiviral vectors expressing parkin. Challenging neurons with proteasome inhibitors or amyloid-beta resulted in accumulation of insoluble parkin and, to a lesser extent, alpha-tubulin. Similarly to neurons in the brains of patients with Lewy body disease, in co-transduced cells alpha-synuclein and parkin colocalized and co-immunoprecipitated. These effects resulted in decreased parkin and alpha-tubulin ubiquitination, accumulation of insoluble parkin, and cytoskeletal alterations with reduced neurite outgrowth. Taken together, accumulation of alpha-synuclein might contribute to the pathogenesis of PD and other Lewy body diseases by promoting alterations in parkin and tubulin solubility, which in turn might compromise neural function by damaging the neuronal cytoskeleton. These studies provide a new perspective on the potential nature of pathogenic alpha-synuclein and parkin interactions in Parkinson disease.
The activity of proteins and their complexes often involves the conversion of chemical energy (stored or supplied) into mechanical work through conformational changes. Mechanical forces are also crucial for the regulation of the structure and function of cells and tissues. Thus, the shape of eukaryotic cells (and by extension, that of the multicellular organisms they form) is the result of cycles of mechanosensing, mechanotransduction, and mechanoresponse. Recently developed single-molecule atomic force microscopy techniques can be used to manipulate single molecules, both in real time and under physiological conditions, and are ideally suited to directly quantify the forces involved in both intra- and intermolecular protein interactions. In combination with molecular biology and computer simulations, these techniques have been applied to characterize the unfolding and refolding reactions in a variety of proteins. Single-molecule mechanical techniques are providing fundamental information on the structure and function of proteins and are becoming an indispensable tool to understand how these molecules fold and work.
Capillary electrophoresis (CE) is a small-volume separation approach amenable to the analysis of complex samples for their small molecule, peptide and protein content. A number of the features of CE make it a method of choice for addressing questions related to neurochemistry. The figures of merit inherent to CE that make it well suited for studying cell-to-cell and intracellular signaling include small sample volumes, high separation efficiency, the ability for online analyte concentration, and compatibility with sensitive and high-information content detection methods. A variety of instrumental aspects are detailed, including detection methods and sampling techniques that are particularly useful for the analysis of signaling molecules. Studies that have used these techniques to increase our understanding of neurobiology are emphasized throughout. One notable application is single neuron chemical analysis, a research area that has been greatly advanced by CE.

The effects of perceptual load on the level of adaptation to task-irrelevant and invisible oriented gratings were examined. Participants performed a task at fixation under conditions of low (detecting color targets) or high (detecting conjunctions of color and shape) perceptual load. Simultaneously, a task-irrelevant-oriented grating was presented monocularly in a more peripheral location but was suppressed from awareness by flashing a dynamic mask stimulus at the same retinal location in the other eye. Orientation-specific adaptation to the invisible irrelevant grating was found at low perceptual load but was eliminated with high perceptual load. These results demonstrate that early unconscious processing of orientation depends on the allocation of limited attentional capacity, and conversely that the allocation of attentional capacity under low (versus high) load is insufficient to bring orientation representations to awareness.


The mesocorticolimbic dopamine system is essential for cognitive and emotive brain functions and is thus an important target in major brain diseases like schizophrenia, drug addiction, and attention deficit hyperactivity disorder. However, the cellular basis for the diversity in behavioral functions and associated dopamine-release pattern within the mesocorticolimbic system has remained unclear. Here, we report the identification of a type of dopaminergic neuron within the mesocorticolimbic dopamine system with unconventional fast-firing properties and small DAT/TH mRNA expression ratios that selectively projects to prefrontal cortex and nucleus accumbens core and medial shell as well as to basolateral amygdala. In contrast, well-described conventional slow-firing dopamine midbrain neurons only project to the lateral shell of the nucleus accumbens and the dorsolateral striatum. Among this dual dopamine midbrain system defined in this study by converging anatomical, electrophysiological, and molecular properties, mesoprefrontal dopaminergic neurons are unique, as only they do not possess functional somatodendritic Girk2-coupled dopamine D2 autoreceptors.
Aversive states are proposed to drive addiction. Here, Wheeler and colleagues show that drug-associated cues come to activate neural representations of aversive information in nucleus accumbens and that this activation predicts subsequent drug use. These remarkable data identify a potential neural substrate through which aversive affective representations may motivate drug use.
Diffusion tensor imaging (DTI) and functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) were combined to examine the relationship between callosal organization and cortical activity across hemispheres. Healthy young adults performed an incidental verbal encoding task (semantic judgments on words) while undergoing fMRI. Consistent with previous studies, the verbal encoding task was associated with left-lateralized activity in the inferior prefrontal cortex (LIPFC). When subjects were divided into two groups based on fractional anisotropy (FA) values in the anterior corpus callosum (DTI), individuals with low anterior callosal FA were found to exhibit greater activity in a homologous region within the right inferior prefrontal cortex (RIPFC) relative to those with high anterior callosal FA. Interestingly, whereas the magnitude of RIPFC activity did not negatively impact subsequent verbal memory performance for individuals with low anterior callosal FA, greater RIPFC activity during verbal encoding was associated with poorer subsequent memory performance for individuals with high anterior callosal FA. Together, these findings provide novel evidence that individual differences in callosal organization are related to the extent of nondominant cortical activity during performance during a lateralized task, and further, that this relationship has consequences on behavior.
Microglia in the spinal cord may play an important role in the development and maintenance of neuropathic pain. A metabotropic ATP receptor, P2Y(12), has been shown to be expressed in spinal microglia constitutively and be involved in chemotaxis. Activation of p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) occurs in spinal microglia after nerve injury and may be related to the production of cytokines and other mediators, resulting in neuropathic pain. However, it remains unknown whether any type of P2Y receptor in microglia is involved in the activation of p38 MAPK and the pain behaviors after nerve injury. Using the partial sciatic nerve ligation (PSNL) model in the rat, we found that P2Y(12) mRNA and protein increased in the spinal cord and peaked at 3 d after PSNL. Double labeling studies revealed that cells expressing increased P2Y(12) mRNA and protein after nerve injury were exclusively microglia. Both pharmacological blockades by intrathecal administration of P2Y(12) antagonist and antisense knockdown of P2Y(12) expression suppressed the development of pain behaviors and the phosphorylation of p38 MAPK in spinal microglia after PSNL. The intrathecal infusion of the P2Y(12) agonist 2-(methythio) adenosine 5'-diphosphate trisodium salt into naive rats mimicked the nerve injury-induced activation of p38 in microglia and elevated pain behaviors. These data suggest a new mechanism of neuropathic pain, in which the increased P2Y(12) works as a gateway of the following events in microglia after nerve injury. Activation of this receptor by released ATP or the hydrolyzed products activate p38 MAPK pathway and may play a crucial role in the generation of neuropathic pain.
Emotional learning requires the coordinated action of neural populations in limbic and cortical networks. Here, we performed simultaneous extracellular recordings from gustatory cortical (GC) and basolateral amygdalar (BLA) neural ensembles as awake, behaving rats learned to dislike the taste of saccharin [via conditioned taste aversion (CTA)]. Learning-related changes in single-neuron sensory responses were observed in both regions, but the nature of the changes was region specific. In GC, most changes were restricted to relatively late aspects of the response (starting approximately 1.0 s after stimulus administration), supporting our hypothesis that in this paradigm palatability-related information resides exclusively in later cortical responses. In contrast, and consistent with data suggesting the amygdala's primary role in judging stimulus palatability, CTA altered all components of BLA taste responses, including the earliest. Finally, learning caused dramatic increases in the functional connectivity (measured in terms of cross-correlation peak heights) between pairs of simultaneously recorded BLA and GC neurons, increases that were evident only during taste processing. Our simultaneous assays of the activity of single neurons in multiple relevant brain regions across learning suggest that the transmission of taste information through amygdala-cortical circuits plays a vital role in CTA memory formation.
In the mature nervous system, changes in synaptic strength correlate with changes in neuronal structure. Members of the Nogo-66 receptor family have been implicated in regulating neuronal morphology. Nogo-66 receptor 1 (NgR1) supports binding of the myelin inhibitors Nogo-A, MAG (myelin-associated glycoprotein), and OMgp (oligodendrocyte myelin glycoprotein), and is important for growth cone collapse in response to acutely presented inhibitors in vitro. After injury to the corticospinal tract, NgR1 limits axon collateral sprouting but is not important for blocking long-distance regenerative growth in vivo. Here, we report on a novel interaction between NgR1 and select members of the fibroblast growth factor (FGF) family. FGF1 and FGF2 bind directly and with high affinity to NgR1 but not to NgR2 or NgR3. In primary cortical neurons, ectopic NgR1 inhibits FGF2-elicited axonal branching. Loss of NgR1 results in altered spine morphologies along apical dendrites of hippocampal CA1 neurons in vivo. Analysis of synaptosomal fractions revealed that NgR1 is enriched synaptically in the hippocampus. Physiological studies at Schaffer collateral-CA1 synapses uncovered a synaptic function for NgR1. Loss of NgR1 leads to FGF2-dependent enhancement of long-term potentiation (LTP) without altering basal synaptic transmission or short-term plasticity. NgR1 and FGF receptor 1 (FGFR1) are colocalized to synapses, and mechanistic studies revealed that FGFR kinase activity is necessary for FGF2-elicited enhancement of hippocampal LTP in NgR1 mutants. In addition, loss of NgR1 attenuates long-term depression of synaptic transmission at Schaffer collateral-CA1 synapses. Together, our findings establish that physiological NgR1 signaling regulates activity-dependent synaptic strength and uncover neuronal NgR1 as a regulator of synaptic plasticity.

Anatomical and imaging studies show ample evidence for auditory activation of the visual cortex following early onset of blindness in both humans and animal models. Anatomical studies in animal models of early blindness clearly show intermodal pathways through which auditory information can reach the primary visual cortex. There is clear evidence for intermodal corticocortical pathways linking auditory and visual cortex and also novel connections between the inferior colliculus and the visual thalamus. A recent publication [L.K. Laemle, N.L. Strominger, D.O. Carpenter, Cross-modal innervation of primary visual cortex by auditory fibers in congenitally anophthalmic mice, Neurosci. Lett. 396 (2006) 108-112] suggested the presence of a direct reciprocal connection between the inferior colliculus and the primary visual cortex (V1) in congenitally anophthalmic ZRDCT/An mice. This implies that this mutant mouse would be the only known vertebrate having a direct tectal connection with a primary sensory cortex. The presence of this peculiar pathway was reinvestigated in the ZRDCT/An mouse with highly sensitive neuronal tracers. We found the connections normally described in the ZRDCT/An mouse between: (i) the inferior colliculus and the dorsal lateral geniculate nucleus, (ii) V1 and the superior colliculus, (iii) the lateral posterior nucleus and V1 and between (iv) the inferior colliculus and the medial geniculate nucleus. We also show unambiguously that the auditory subcortical structures do not connect the primary visual cortex in the anophthalmic mouse. In particular, we find no evidence of a direct projection from the auditory mesencephalon to the cortex in this animal model of blindness.
Anticipating the timing of behaviorally relevant events is crucial for organizing movement. The time to initiate actions based on events (i.e., reaction time (RT)) is a useful measure to quantify states of anticipation. Few studies have examined how anticipation affects the timing of limb movements. We addressed this question behaviorally with two macaque monkeys performing delayed wrist movement tasks. The interval between target onset and go signal (i.e., foreperiod) varied randomly from 1 to 2 s. The probability that the go signal was about to occur (i.e., hazard rate) increased as the foreperiod increased. The kinematics of wrist movements was not influenced by foreperiod duration. Analyzing RT data with the LATER model indicated that RT distributions swiveled on reciprobit plots as foreperiods increased, suggesting that changes in RT distributions were due to changes in anticipation. RT was inversely related to hazard rate. To better understand the general implications of anticipatory states, we introduced an additional rectangular foreperiod distribution that ranged from 0.9 to 1.5 s. For that distribution, the hazard rate peaks were higher than those of the 1-2 s distribution. Changes in RT were clearly explained by quantitative differences in hazard rate. The decrease in RT in the 0.9-1.5 s foreperiod distribution was greater than that in the 1-2 s foreperiod. Thus, monkeys learned the temporal structure of foreperiod distributions and anticipated the onset of the go signal, based on hazard rates.
Speech perception consists of a set of computations that take continuously varying acoustic waveforms as input and generate discrete representations that make contact with the lexical representations stored in long-term memory as output. Because the perceptual objects that are recognized by the speech perception enter into subsequent linguistic computation, the format that is used for lexical representation and processing fundamentally constrains the speech perceptual processes. Consequently, theories of speech perception must, at some level, be tightly linked to theories of lexical representation. Minimally, speech perception must yield representations that smoothly and rapidly interface with stored lexical items. Adopting the perspective of Marr, we argue and provide neurobiological and psychophysical evidence for the following research programme. First, at the implementational level, speech perception is a multi-time resolution process, with perceptual analyses occurring concurrently on at least two time scales (approx. 20-80 ms, approx. 150-300 ms), commensurate with (sub)segmental and syllabic analyses, respectively. Second, at the algorithmic level, we suggest that perception proceeds on the basis of internal forward models, or uses an 'analysis-by-synthesis' approach. Third, at the computational level (in the sense of Marr), the theory of lexical representation that we adopt is principally informed by phonological research and assumes that words are represented in the mental lexicon in terms of sequences of discrete segments composed of distinctive features. One important goal of the research programme is to develop linking hypotheses between putative neurobiological primitives (e.g. temporal primitives) and those primitives derived from linguistic inquiry, to arrive ultimately at a biologically sensible and theoretically satisfying model of representation and computation in speech.
In this paper, we describe domain-general auditory processes that we believe are prerequisite to the linguistic analysis of speech. We discuss biological evidence for these processes and how they might relate to processes that are specific to human speech and language. We begin with a brief review of (i) the anatomy of the auditory system and (ii) the essential properties of speech sounds. Section 4 describes the general auditory mechanisms that we believe are applied to all communication sounds, and how functional neuroimaging is being used to map the brain networks associated with domain-general auditory processing. Section 5 discusses recent neuroimaging studies that explore where such general processes give way to those that are specific to human speech and language.
Merkel cell-neurite complexes are highly sensitive touch receptors comprising epidermal Merkel cells and sensory afferents. Based on morphological and molecular studies, Merkel cells are proposed to be mechanosensory cells that signal afferents via neurotransmission; however, functional studies testing this hypothesis in intact skin have produced conflicting results. To test this model in a simplified system, we asked whether purified Merkel cells are directly activated by mechanical stimulation. Cell shape was manipulated with anisotonic solution changes and responses were monitored by Ca2+ imaging with fura-2. We found that hypotonic-induced cell swelling, but not hypertonic solutions, triggered cytoplasmic Ca2+ transients. Several lines of evidence indicate that these signals arise from swelling-activated Ca2+-permeable ion channels. First, transients were reversibly abolished by chelating extracellular Ca2+, demonstrating a requirement for Ca2+ influx across the plasma membrane. Second, Ca2+ transients were initially observed near the plasma membrane in cytoplasmic processes. Third, voltage-activated Ca2+ channel (VACC) antagonists reduced transients by half, suggesting that swelling-activated channels depolarize plasma membranes to activate VACCs. Finally, emptying internal Ca2+ stores attenuated transients by 80%, suggesting Ca2+ release from stores augments swelling-activated Ca2+ signals. To identify candidate mechanotransduction channels, we used RT-PCR to amplify ion-channel transcripts whose pharmacological profiles matched those of hypotonic-evoked Ca2+ signals in Merkel cells. We found 11 amplicons, including PKD1, PKD2, and TRPC1, channels previously implicated in mechanotransduction in other cells. Collectively, these results directly demonstrate that Merkel cells are activated by hypotonic-evoked swelling, identify cellular signaling mechanisms that mediate these responses, and support the hypothesis that Merkel cells contribute to touch reception in the Merkel cell-neurite complex.

Abnormal prefrontal functioning plays a central role in the working memory (WM) deficits of schizophrenic patients, but the nature of the relationship between WM and prefrontal activation remains undetermined. Using two functional neuroimaging methods, we investigated the neural correlates of remembering and forgetting in schizophrenic and healthy participants. We focused on the brain activation during WM maintenance phase with event-related functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI). We also examined oxygenated hemoglobin changes in relation to memory performance with the near-infrared spectroscopy (NIRS) using the same spatial WM task. Distinct types of correct and error trials were segregated for analysis. fMRI data indicated that prefrontal activation was increased during WM maintenance on correct trials in both schizophrenic and healthy subjects. However, a significant difference was observed in the functional asymmetry of frontal activation pattern. Healthy subjects showed increased activation in the right frontal, temporal and cingulate regions. Schizophrenic patients showed greater activation compared with control subjects in left frontal, temporal and parietal regions as well as in right frontal regions. We also observed increased 'false memory' errors in schizophrenic patients, associated with increased prefrontal activation and resembling the activation pattern observed on the correct trials. NIRS data replicated the fMRI results. Thus, increased frontal activity was correlated with the accuracy of WM in both healthy control and schizophrenic participants. The major difference between the two groups concerned functional asymmetry; healthy subjects recruited right frontal regions during spatial WM maintenance whereas schizophrenic subjects recruited a wider network in both hemispheres to achieve the same level of memory performance. Increased &quot;false memory&quot; errors and accompanying bilateral prefrontal activation in schizophrenia suggest that the etiology of memory errors must be considered when comparing group performances. Finally, the concordance of fMRI and NIRS data supports NIRS as an alternative functional neuroimaging method for psychiatric research.

The passing of Seymour Benzer has inspired various retrospectives on his scientific career, and much attention has been paid to his inauguration of single-gene mutant studies of behavior in the fruitfly Drosophila melanogaster. Studies of genes and behavior actually go back to the beginnings of genetics. The end of the era marked by Benzer's life offers a good opportunity to look back at the origins of the field he influenced so profoundly.
It is widely believed that the cortical mechanisms of color vision are monocular because stereopsis is poor for isoluminant patterns. By measuring and comparing the chromatic tuning of binocular and monocular neurons in cortical areas V1 and V2 of macaque, we show that this is not the case. Not only are many color-preferring cells in early visual cortex well-driven binocularly, but their color preferences are unusually well-matched in the two eyes. The receptive fields of these neurons are well equipped to convey information about binocular surface color, but because they are insensitive to local spatial contrast they are ill-suited to convey information about stereoscopic depth. Our observations suggest that in early cortical processing, binocular depth and binocular surface color are represented by two different groups of neurons: one that encodes binocular spatial detail at the expense of binocular chromatic detail and another that does the reverse.
Cartilaginous fishes are the oldest living phylogenetic group of jawed vertebrates. Here, we demonstrate the value of cartilaginous fish sequences in reconstructing the evolutionary history of vertebrate genomes by sequencing the protocadherin cluster in the relatively small genome (910 Mb) of the elephant shark (Callorhinchus milii). Human and coelacanth contain a single protocadherin cluster with 53 and 49 genes, respectively, that are organized in three subclusters, Pcdhalpha, Pcdhbeta, and Pcdhgamma, whereas the duplicated protocadherin clusters in fugu and zebrafish contain &gt;77 and 107 genes, respectively, that are organized in Pcdhalpha and Pcdhgamma subclusters. By contrast, the elephant shark contains a single protocadherin cluster with 47 genes organized in four subclusters (Pcdhdelta, Pcdhepsilon, Pcdhmu, and Pcdhnu). By comparison with elephant shark sequences, we discovered a Pcdhdelta subcluster in teleost fishes, coelacanth, Xenopus, and chicken. Our results suggest that the protocadherin cluster in the ancestral jawed vertebrate contained more subclusters than modern vertebrates, and the evolution of the protocadherin cluster is characterized by lineage-specific differential loss of entire subclusters of genes. In contrast to teleost fish and mammalian protocadherin genes that have undergone gene conversion events, elephant shark protocadherin genes have experienced very little gene conversion. The syntenic block of genes in the elephant shark protocadherin locus is well conserved in human but disrupted in fugu. Thus, the elephant shark genome appears to be less prone to rearrangements compared with teleost fish genomes. The small and &quot;stable&quot; genome of the elephant shark is a valuable reference for understanding the evolution of vertebrate genomes.
Synaptotagmin-7 is a candidate Ca(2+) sensor for exocytosis that is at least partly localized to synapses. Similar to synaptotagmin-1, which functions as a Ca(2+) sensor for fast synaptic vesicle (SV) exocytosis, synaptotagmin-7 contains C(2)A and C(2)B domains that exhibit Ca(2+)-dependent phospholipid binding. However, synaptotagmin-7 cannot replace synaptotagmin-1 as a Ca(2+) sensor for fast SV exocytosis, raising questions about the physiological significance of its Ca(2+)-binding properties. Here, we examine how synaptotagmin-7 binds Ca(2+) and test whether this Ca(2+) binding regulates Ca(2+)-triggered SV exocytosis. We show that the synaptotagmin-7 C(2)A domain exhibits a Ca(2+)-binding mode similar to that of the synaptotagmin-1 C(2)A domain, suggesting that the synaptotagmin-1 and -7 C(2) domains generally employ comparable Ca(2+)-binding mechanisms. We then generated mutant mice that lack synaptotagmin-7 or contain point mutations inactivating Ca(2+) binding either to both C(2) domains of synaptotagmin-7 or only to its C(2)B domain. Synaptotagmin-7-mutant mice were viable and fertile. Inactivation of Ca(2+) binding to both C(2) domains caused an approximately 70% reduction in synaptotagmin-7 levels, whereas inactivation of Ca(2+) binding to only the C(2)B domain did not alter synaptotagmin-7 levels. The synaptotagmin-7 deletion did not change fast synchronous release, slow asynchronous release, or short-term synaptic plasticity of release of neurotransmitters. Thus, our results show that Ca(2+) binding to the synaptotagmin-7 C(2) domains is physiologically important for stabilizing synaptotagmin-7, but that Ca(2+) binding by synaptotagmin-7 likely does not regulate SV exocytosis, consistent with a role for synaptotagmin-7 in other forms of Ca(2+)-dependent synaptic exocytosis.
Mutations in copper/zinc superoxide dismutase (SOD1) are causative for dominantly inherited amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS). Despite high variability in biochemical properties among the disease-causing mutants, a proportion of both dismutase-active and -inactive mutants are stably bound to spinal cord mitochondria. This mitochondrial proportion floats with mitochondria rather than sedimenting to the much higher density of protein, thus eliminating coincidental cosedimentation of protein aggregates with mitochondria. Half of dismutase-active and approximately 90% of dismutase-inactive mutant SOD1 is bound to mitochondrial membranes in an alkali- and salt-resistant manner. Sensitivity to proteolysis and immunoprecipitation with an antibody specific for misfolded SOD1 demonstrate that in all mutant SOD1 models, misfolded SOD1 is deposited onto the cytoplasmic face of the outer mitochondrial membrane, increasing antigenic accessibility of the normally structured electrostatic loop. Misfolded mutant SOD1 binding is both restricted to spinal cord and selective for mitochondrial membranes, implicating exposure to mitochondria of a misfolded mutant SOD1 conformer mediated by a unique, tissue-selective composition of cytoplasmic chaperones, components unique to the cytoplasmic face of spinal mitochondria to which misfolded SOD1 binds, or misfolded SOD1 conformers unique to spinal cord that have a selective affinity for mitochondrial membranes.
Progress towards elucidating the underlying genetic variation for susceptibility to complex central nervous system (CNS) hyperexcitability states has just begun. Genetic mapping analyses suggest that a gene(s) on mid-chromosome 4 has pleiotropic effects on multiple CNS hyperexcitability states in mice, including alcohol and barbiturate withdrawal and convulsions elicited by chemical and audiogenic stimuli. We recently identified Mpdz within this chromosomal region as a gene that influences alcohol and barbiturate withdrawal convulsions. Mpdz encodes the multi-PDZ domain protein (MPDZ). Currently, there is limited information available about the mechanism by which MPDZ influences drug withdrawal and/or other CNS hyperexcitability states, but may involve its interaction with 5-HT2C and/or GABAB receptors. One of the most useful tools we have developed thus far is a congenic strain that possesses a segment of chromosome 4 from the C57BL/6J (donor) mouse strain superimposed on a genetic background that is &gt;99% from the DBA/2J strain. The introduced segment spans the Mpdz gene. Here, we demonstrate that handling-induced convulsions are less severe in congenic vs. background strain mice in response to either a 5-HT2C receptor antagonist (SB242084) or a GABAB receptor agonist (baclofen), but not a GABAA receptor channel blocker (pentylenetetrazol). These data suggest that allelic variation in Mpdz, or a linked gene, influences SB242084- and baclofen-enhanced convulsions. Our results are consistent with the hypothesis that Mpdz's effects on CNS hyperexcitability, including alcohol and barbiturate withdrawal, involve MPDZ interaction with 5-HT2C and/or GABAB receptors. However, additional genes reside within the congenic interval and may also influence CNS hyperexcitability.
Prenatal exposure to opiates, which is invariably followed by postnatal withdrawal, can affect cognitive performance. To further characterize these effects, we examined radial 8-arm maze performance and expression of brain derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) in male rats prenatally exposed to the opiate l-alpha-acetylmethadol (LAAM). Female rats received 1.0 mg/kg/day LAAM or water via daily oral gavage for 28 days prior to breeding, during breeding, and throughout pregnancy. Pups were fostered to non-treated lactating dams at birth and underwent neonatal opiate withdrawal. At 5-6 months, prenatal water- and LAAM-exposed males (n=6 each; non-littermates) received radial arm maze training consisting of ten trials a day for five days and three retention trials on day six. Rats prenatally exposed to LAAM had poorer maze performance, decreased percent correct responding and more reference and working memory errors than prenatal water-treated controls. However, they were able to acquire the task by the end of training. There were no differences between the groups on retention 24 h after testing. Following retention testing, hippocampi were removed and protein extracted from cytosol and synaptic fractions. Western blots were used to measure levels of mature and precursor BDNF protein, as well as the BDNF receptor TrkB. BDNF precursor protein was significantly decreased in the synaptic fraction of trained prenatal LAAM-treated rats compared to prenatal water-treated trained controls. No effects were found for the full-length or truncated TrkB receptor. In untrained rats, prenatal treatment did not affect any of the measures. These data suggest that prenatal opiate exposure and/or postnatal withdrawal compromise expression of proteins involved in the neural plasticity underlying learning.
Early diabetic retinopathy is characterized by changes in subtle visual functions such as contrast sensitivity and dark adaptation. The outcome of several studies suggests that glutamate is involved in retinal neurodegeneration during diabetes. We hypothesized that the protein levels of ionotropic glutamate receptor subunits are altered in the retina during diabetes. Therefore, we investigated whether human diabetic patients have altered immunoreactivity of ionotropic glutamate receptor subunits in the retina. In total, 12 donor eyes from subjects with diabetes mellitus were examined and compared to 6 eyes from non-diabetic subjects without known ocular disease, serving as controls. Immunohistochemical analysis was performed using specific antibodies directed against the ionotropic alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-isoxazole-4-propionate (AMPA) receptor subunits GluR1, GluR2, GluR4, and against the N-methyl-d-aspartate glutamate receptor subunit NR1. In the inner plexiform and outer plexiform layers the immunoreactivity of GluR2 and NR1 subunits was significantly increased in subjects with diabetes when compared to the levels found in controls. No significant changes in GluR1 and GluR4 subunit expression were observed. These results suggest that early visual dysfunction in diabetic patients may be due, at least partially, to changes in glutamate receptor subunit expression or distribution.
Object recognition is subserved by mechanisms that seem to rely on the activity of distributed neural assemblies coordinated by synchronous firing in the gamma-band range (&gt;20 Hz). The present study relied on a novel EEG-compatible plane-rotation paradigm to elicit view-dependent processing leading to delays in the recognition of disoriented objects. The paradigm involved a covert naming task (grammatical gender decision). The task's suitability was first evaluated through a control experiment that contrasted covert with overt naming. The plane-rotation paradigm was subsequently employed in an EEG experiment. It was found that recognition delays for disoriented objects were accompanied by induced gamma-band activity's (GBA) peak latency delays, replicating Martinovic, Gruber and Mller (2007, Journal of Cognitive Neuroscience). Brain electrical tomography was performed to obtain further information on the intracranial current density distributions underlying the latency shifts. Induced GBA was found to be generated by a set of distributed prefrontal, temporal and posterior sources committed to representational processing. Their relative contribution differed between upright and disoriented objects, as prefrontal activity became more prominent with increased disorientation. Together these findings indicate that adaptive changes in dynamic coding of object identity occur during recognition of disoriented objects. Induced GBA is a marker of pronounced sensitivity to these changes and thus a robust neural signature of representational activity in high-level vision.
The mechanism of action of 5-aminosalicylic acid (5-ASA), the active therapeutic moiety of a number of clinically used anti-colitic agents, is unclear. The present study investigates whether the beneficial effects in vivo could involve induction of the heat shock protein, heme oxygenase-1 (HO-1), known to provide endogenous anti-oxidant and anti-inflammatory moieties which can modulate colonic inflammation. The effects of 5-ASA on the colonic expression and activity of HO-1 along with its effect on the inflammatory damage have been evaluated in the colitis provoked by instillation of trinitrobenzene sulphonic acid (TNBS) over 48 h in the rat. Intracolonic administration of 5-ASA (8, 25 and 75 mg/kg/day) dose-dependently reduced the TNBS-provoked macroscopic colonic inflammatory injury, myeloperoxidase (MPO) activity and TNF-alpha levels, while also dose-dependently increasing colonic heme oxygenase enzyme activity. Colonic HO-1 protein expression, determined by Western blot analysis in this colitis model, was likewise further induced by 5-ASA. Intracolonic administration of 5-ASA alone under unchallenged conditions also induced colonic HO-1 protein expression and stimulated heme oxygenase enzyme activity. Administration of zinc protoporphyrin (50 micromol/kg/day, s.c.), which prevented the increase in colonic heme oxygenase activity, abolished the anti-colitic effect of 5-ASA. These results suggest that 5-ASA may exert its colonic anti-oxidant and anti-inflammatory effects in vivo in part through the up-regulation of HO-1 enzyme expression and activity.
The X11/MINT family proteins are adaptor scaffolding proteins involved in formation of multiprotein complexes, and trafficking and metabolism of membrane proteins such as the beta-amyloid precursor protein. We found that a significant portion of X11L and X11L2 are recovered in nuclear fraction of mouse brain homogenates. EGFP-X11s were not detected in the nucleus of N2a neuroblastoma cells; however, administration of leptomycin B (LMB) induced substantial nuclear accumulation of EGFP-X11L and EGFP-X11L2, while EGFP-X11 showed little accumulation. Fluorescence loss in photobleaching (FLIP) analysis indicated that EGFP-X11L2 and EGFP-X11L are shuttled between the cytoplasm and nucleus, the former more effectively than the latter. We identified a nuclear export signal (NES) in the N-terminus of X11L2, mutation of which induces nuclear accumulation of EGFP-X11L2 in the absence of LMB. X11L2 fused to the Gal4 DNA binding domain (DBD) showed transcriptional activity, suggesting that X11L2 could function as a transcriptional activator if tethered near a promoter. Interestingly, attenuation of the nucleo-cytoplasmic shuttling of GAL4-DBD-X11L2 by mutating the NES or attaching the SV40 nuclear localization signal significantly decreased the apparent transcriptional activity. Our observations suggest that X11L2 functions in the nucleus by a mechanism distinct from conventional transactivators.
The ventral posterior nucleus of the thalamus (VP) receives two major sets of excitatory inputs, one from the ascending somatosensory pathways originating in the dorsal horn, dorsal column nuclei, and trigeminal nuclei, and the other originating from the cerebral cortex. Both systems use glutamate as neurotransmitter, as do the thalamocortical axons relaying somatosensory information from the VP to the primary somatosensory cortex (SI). The synapses formed by these projection systems differ anatomically, physiologically, and in their capacity for short-term synaptic plasticity. Glutamate uptake into synaptic vesicles and its release at central synapses depend on two isoforms of vesicular glutamate transporters, VGluT1 and VGluT2. Despite ample evidence of their complementary distribution, some instances exist of co-localization in the same brain areas or at the same synapses. In the thalamus, the two transcripts coexist in cells of the VP and other nuclei but not in the posterior or intralaminar nuclei. We show that the two isoforms are completely segregated at VP synapses, despite their widespread expression throughout the dorsal and ventral thalamus. We present immunocytochemical, ultrastructural, gene expression, and connectional evidence that VGluT1 in the VP is only found at corticothalamic synapses, whereas VGluT2 is only found at terminals made by axons originating in the spinal cord and brainstem. By contrast, the two VGluT isoforms are co-localized in thalamocortical axon terminals targeting layer IV, but not in those targeting layer I, suggesting the presence of two distinct projection systems related to the core/matrix pattern of organization of thalamocortical connectivity described in other mammals.
We investigated the organization of frontoparietal cortex in the common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) by using intracortical microstimulation and an architectonic analysis. Primary motor cortex (M1) was identified as an area that evoked visible movements at low levels of electric current and had a full body representation of the contralateral musculature. Primary motor cortex represented the contralateral body from hindlimb to face in a mediolateral sequence, with individual movements such as jaw and wrist represented in multiple nearby locations. Primary motor cortex was coextensive with an agranular area of cortex marked by a distinct layer V of large pyramidal cells that gradually decreased in size toward the rostral portion of the area and was more homogenous in appearance than other New World primates. In addition to M1, stimulation also evoked movements from several other areas of frontoparietal cortex. Caudal to primary motor cortex, area 3a was identified as a thin strip of cortex where movements could be evoked at thresholds similar to those in M1. Rostral to primary motor cortex, supplementary motor cortex and premotor areas responded to higher stimulation currents and had smaller layer V pyramidal cells. Other areas evoking movements included primary somatosensory cortex (area 3b), two lateral somatosensory areas (areas PV and S2), and a caudal somatosensory area. Our results suggest that frontoparietal cortex in marmosets is organized in a similar fashion to that of other New World primates.
Glioblastoma is the most malignant and prevalent brain tumor in humans. It is composed of heterogenic abnormal astroglial cells that avoid differentiation, maintain proliferation, and hardly commit apoptosis. N-(4-Hydroxyphenyl)retinamide (4-HPR) induced astrocytic differentiation and increased sensitivity to interferon-gamma (IFN-gamma) for apoptosis in human glioblastoma A172, LN18, and SNB19 cells. Combination of 4-HPR and IFN-gamma significantly inhibited human telomerase reverse transcriptase (hTERT), cyclin dependent kinase 2 (CDK2), and survivin to up-regulate caspase-8, caspase-9, and caspase-3 for increasing apoptosis in all glioblastoma cell lines. Hence, combination of 4-HPR and IFN-gamma should be considered for controlling growth of different human glioblastoma cells.
Gurmarin (Gur) is a peptide that selectively suppresses sweet taste responses in rodents. The inhibitory effect of Gur differs among tongue regions and mouse strains. Recent studies demonstrated that co-expression levels of genes controlling sweet receptors (T1r2/T1r3 heterodimer) versus Galpha-protein, gustducin, are much lower in Gur-insensitive posterior circumvallate papillae than in Gur-sensitive anterior fungiform papillae. Here, we investigated the potential link of Gur-sensitivity with the co-expression for T1r2/T1r3 receptors and gustducin by comparing those of taste tissues of Gur-sensitive (B6, dpa congenic strains) and Gur-weakly-sensitive (BALB) strains. The results indicated that co-expression ratios among T1r2, T1r3, and gustducin in the fungiform papillae were significantly lower in Gur-weakly-sensitive BALB mice than in Gur-sensitive B6 and dpa congenic mice. This linkage between Gur-sensitivity and co-expression for T1r2/T1r3 receptors versus gustducin suggests that gustducin may be a key molecule involved in the pathway for Gur-sensitive sweet responses.
Spatiotemporal aspects of ERK activation are stimulus-specific and dictate cellular consequences. They are dependent upon dual specificity phosphatases (DUSPs) that bind ERK via docking domains and can both inactivate and anchor ERK in cellular compartments. Using high throughput fluorescence microscopy in combination with a system where endogenous ERKs are removed and replaced with wild-type or mutated ERK2-green fluorescent protein (GFP), we show that ERK2 activation responses to epidermal growth factor (EGF) and protein kinase C (PKC) are transient and sustained, respectively. PKC-mediated ERK2 activation is associated with prolonged nuclear localization in the dephosphorylated form, whereas EGF-stimulated ERK2 activation mediates only transient nuclear accumulation. By using short inhibitory RNAs to nuclear inducible DUSP1, -2, or -4 (alone or in combination), we demonstrate that all three of these enzymes contribute to the dephosphorylation of PKC (but not EGF)-activated ERK2 in the nucleus but that they have opposing effects on localization. DUSP2 and -4 inactivate and anchor ERK2, whereas DUSP1 dephosphorylates ERK in the nucleus but allows its traffic back to the cytoplasm. Overexpression of DUSP1, -2, or -4 prevented ERK2 activation, but only DUSP2 and -4 caused ERK2-GFP nuclear accumulation or could be immunoprecipitated with ERK2. Furthermore, protein synthesis inhibition or replacement of wild-type ERK2-GFP with docking domain mutants selectively increased PKC effects on ERK activity and altered ERK2-GFP localization. These mutations also impaired the ability of ERK2-GFP to bind DUSP2 and -4. Together, our data reveal a novel, stimulus-specific, and phosphatase-specific mechanism of ERK2 regulation in the nucleus by DUSP1, -2, and -4.
Transient receptor potential channels are involved in sensing chemical and physical changes inside and outside of cells. TRPV3 is highly expressed in skin keratinocytes, where it forms a nonselective cation channel activated by hot temperatures in the innocuous and noxious range. The channel has also been implicated in flavor sensation in oral and nasal cavities as well as being a molecular target of some allergens and skin sensitizers. TRPV3 is unique in that its activity is sensitized upon repetitive stimulations. Here we investigated the role of calcium ions in the sensitization of TRPV3 to repetitive stimulations. We show that the sensitization is accompanied by a decrease of Ca(2+)-dependent channel inhibition mediated by calmodulin acting at an N-terminal site (amino acids 108-130) and by an acidic residue (Asp(641)) at the pore loop of TRPV3. These sites also contribute to the voltage dependence of TRPV3. During sensitization, the channel displayed a gradual shift of the voltage dependence to more negative potentials as well as uncoupling from voltage sensing. The initial response to ligand stimulation was increased and sensitization to repetitive stimulations was decreased by increasing the intracellular Ca(2+)-buffering strength, inhibiting calmodulin, or disrupting the calmodulin-binding site. Mutation of Asp(641) to Asn abolished the high affinity extracellular Ca(2+)-mediated inhibition and greatly facilitated the activation of TRPV3. We conclude that Ca(2+) inhibits TRPV3 from both the extracellular and intracellular sides. The inhibition is sequentially reduced, appearing as sensitization to repetitive stimulations.
GTRAP3-18 interacts with and reduces the activity of the neuronal specific Na(+)/K(+) glutamate transporter, EAAC1 both in vitro and in vivo. GTRAP3-18 and the related isoform, JM4, are distant relatives of the Rab GTPase-interacting factor PRA1, and share a topology of four transmembrane domains and cytosolic termini. GTRAP3-18 and JM4 are resident endoplasmic reticulum (ER) proteins. The physiological role of GTRAP3-18 is poorly understood. We demonstrate for the first time that GTRAP3-18 is a regulator of ER protein trafficking. Expression of GTRAP3-18 delays the ER exit of EAAC1, as well as other members of the excitatory amino acid transporter family. GTRAP3-18 uses hydrophobic domain interactions in the ER membrane to self-associate and cytoplasmic interactions at the C terminus to regulate trafficking. The features of GTRAP3-18 activity are consistent with recent phylogenic sequence analyses suggesting GTRAP3-18 and JM4 be reclassified as mammalian isoforms of the yeast protein family Yip, Yip6b, and Yip6a, respectively.
Excitatory amino acid transporters (EAATs) are the primary regulators of extracellular glutamate concentrations in the central nervous system. Their dysfunction may contribute to several neurological diseases. To date, five distinct mammalian glutamate transporters have been cloned. In brain, EAAC1 (excitatory amino acid carrier 1) is the primary neuronal glutamate transporter, localized on the perisynaptic membranes that are near release sites. Despite its potential importance in synaptic actions, little is known concerning the regulation of EAAC1 trafficking from the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) to the cell surface. Previously, we identified an EAAC1-associated protein, GTRAP3-18, an ER protein that prevents ER exit of EAAC1 when induced. Here we show that RTN2B, a member of the reticulon protein family that mainly localizes in the ER and ER exit sites interacts with EAAC1 and GTRAP3-18. EAAC1 and GTRAP3-18 bind to different regions of RTN2B. Each protein can separately and independently form complexes with EAAC1. RTN2B enhances ER exit and the cell surface composition of EAAC1 in heterologous cells. Expression of short interfering RNA-mediated knockdown of RTN2B decreases the EAAC1 protein level in neurons. Overall, our results suggest that RTN2B functions as a positive regulator in the delivery of EAAC1 from the ER to the cell surface. These studies indicate that transporter exit from the ER controlled by the interaction with its ER binding partner represents a critical regulatory step in glutamate transporter trafficking to the cell surface.
Dab1 is an intracellular adaptor protein that interacts with amyloid precursor protein (APP) and apoE receptor 2 (apoEr2), increases their levels on the cell surface, and increases their cleavage by alpha-secretases. To investigate the mechanism underlying these alterations in processing and trafficking of APP and apoEr2, we examined the effect of Fyn, an Src family-tyrosine kinase known to interact with and phosphorylate Dab1. Co-immunoprecipitation, co-immunostaining, and fluorescence lifetime imaging demonstrated an association between Fyn and APP. Fyn induced phosphorylation of APP at Tyr-757 of the (757)YENPTY(762) motif and increased cell surface expression of APP. Overexpression of Fyn alone did not alter levels of sAPPalpha or cytoplasmic C-terminal fragments, although it significantly decreased production of Abeta. However, in the presence of Dab1, Fyn significantly increased sAPPalpha and C-terminal fragments. Fyn-induced APP phosphorylation and cell surface levels of APP were potentiated in the presence of Dab1. Fyn also induced phosphorylation of apoEr2 and increased its cell surface levels and, in the presence of Dab1, affected processing of its C-terminal fragment. In vivo studies showed that sAPPalpha was decreased in the Fyn knock-out, supporting a role for Fyn in APP processing. These data demonstrate that Fyn, due in part to its effects on Dab1, regulates the phosphorylation, trafficking, and processing of APP and apoEr2.
Timing is critical. The same event can mean different things at different times and some events are more likely to occur at one time than another. We used a cued visual classification task to evaluate how changes in temporal context affect neural responses in inferior temporal cortex, an extrastriate visual area known to be involved in object processing. On each trial a first image cued a temporal delay before a second target image appeared. The animal's task was to classify the second image by pressing one of two buttons previously associated with that target. All images were used as both cues and targets. Whether an image cued a delay time or signaled a button press depended entirely upon whether it was the first or second picture in a trial. This paradigm allowed us to compare inferior temporal cortex neural activity to the same image subdivided by temporal context and expectation. Neuronal spiking was more robust and visually evoked local field potentials (LFP's) larger for target presentations than for cue presentations. On invalidly cued trials, when targets appeared unexpectedly early, the magnitude of the evoked LFP was reduced and delayed and neuronal spiking was attenuated. Spike field coherence increased in the beta-gamma frequency range for expected targets. In conclusion, different neural responses in higher order ventral visual cortex may occur for the same visual image based on manipulations of temporal attention.
Item recognition for unfamiliar faces and scenes was tested in Jon, who has developmental amnesia resulting from bilateral hippocampal pathology. Performance and confidence judgements in healthy adults showed that both tests were equated for difficulty and had similar receiver operating characteristics (ROCs). Jon's performance on the faces test was indistinguishable from the controls, in both sensitivity and the shape of the ROC curve. In contrast his performance on the scenes test was markedly poor, and his ROC was inconsistent with both a standard dual process (DP; recollection and familiarity) model and an unequal variance signal detection model of recognition memory. Jon's data were as well fitted as controls' data by a DP model that included two recollection parameters, but required counter-intuitive parameter values corresponding to normal recollection and impaired familiarity, which likely reflect an idiosyncratic use of confidence judgements when his memory for the material is weak. The results highlight a limitation in using ROCs to estimate recollection and familiarity in patients who may have developed compensatory strategies for material that they have difficulty remembering (scenes, but not faces in this case). Overall, these data are difficult to reconcile with domain-general accounts of the hippocampal role in memory, including dual process models and the declarative model. Instead, the data indicate that the hippocampus plays a preferential role in the processing of topographical memoranda over faces memoranda.
Prism adaptation to rightward optical shifts during visually guided pointing is considered a promising intervention in right-hemisphere stroke patients with left spatial neglect. Conventionally, prism adaptation is assessed via aftereffects, on subjective straight ahead (SSA) pointing with eyes closed; or by visual open-loop pointing (VOL), i.e. pointing to a visual target without seeing the hand. Previous data suggest indirectly that prism aftereffects in neglect patients may be larger (pathologically so) when assessed by SSA than by VOL. But these measures have never been directly compared within the same patients after identical prism exposure. Accordingly we implemented both measures here within the same group of 13 neglect patients and 13 controls. Prism aftereffects were much larger for SSA than VOL in neglect patients, falling outside the normative range only for SSA. This may arise because the SSA task can itself involve aspects of neglect that may be ameliorated by the prism intervention, hence showing abnormal changes after prisms. The extent of SSA change after prisms varied between patients, and correlated with improvements on a standard cancellation measure for neglect. The lesions of patients who did versus did not show neglect improvement immediately after prisms provide an initial indication that lack of improvement may potentially relate to cortical damage in right intraparietal sulcus and white matter damage in inferior parietal lobe and middle frontal gyrus. Future studies of possible rehabilitative impact from prisms upon neglect may need to consider carefully how to measure prism adaptation per se, separately from any impact of such adaptation upon manifestations of neglect.

The perception of emotional facial expressions induces covert imitation in emotion-specific muscles of the perceiver's face. Neural processes involved in these spontaneous facial reactions remain largely unknown. Here we concurrently recorded EEG and facial EMG in 15 participants watching short movie clips displaying either happy or angry facial expressions. EMG activity was recorded for the zygomaticus major (ZM) that elevates the lips during a smile, and the corrugator supercillii (CS) that knits the eyebrows during a frown. We found increased EMG activity of CS in response to angry expressions, and enhanced EMG activity of ZM for happy expressions, replicating earlier EMG studies. More importantly, we found that the amplitude of an early visual evoked potential (right P1) was larger when ZM activity to happy faces was high, and when CS activity to angry faces was high, as compared to when muscle reactions were low. Conversely, the amplitude of right N170 component was smaller when the intensity of facial imitation was high. These combined EEG-EMG results suggest that early visual processing of face expression may determine the magnitude of subsequent facial imitation, with dissociable effects for P1 and N170. These findings are discussed against the classical dual-route model of face recognition.
An intriguing puzzle in cognitive neuroscience over recent years has been the common observation of parietal lobe activation in functional neuroimaging studies during the performance of human memory tasks. These findings have surprised scientists and clinicians because they challenge decades of established thinking that the parietal lobe does not support memory function. However, direct empirical investigation of whether circumscribed parietal lobe lesions might indeed be associated with human memory impairment has been lacking. Here we confirm using functional magnetic resonance imaging that significant parietal lobe activation is observed in healthy volunteers during a task assessing recollection of the context in which events previously occurred. However, patients with parietal lobe lesions that overlap closely with the regions activated in the healthy volunteers nevertheless exhibit normal performance on the same recollection task. Thus, although the processes subserved by the human parietal lobe appear to be recruited to support memory function, they are not a necessary requirement for accurate remembering to occur.
Perception is an &quot;inverse problem,&quot; in which the state of the world must be inferred from the sensory neural activity that results. However, this inference is both ill-posed (Helmholtz, 1856; Marr, 1982) and corrupted by noise (Green &amp; Swets, 1989), requiring the brain to compute perceptual beliefs under conditions of uncertainty. Here we show that human observers performing a simple visual choice task under an externally imposed loss function approach the optimal strategy, as defined by Bayesian probability and decision theory (Berger, 1985; Cox, 1961). In concert with earlier work, this suggests that observers possess a model of their internal uncertainty and can utilize this model in the neural computations that underlie their behavior (Knill &amp; Pouget, 2004). In our experiment, optimal behavior requires that observers integrate the loss function with an estimate of their internal uncertainty rather than simply requiring that they use a modal estimate of the uncertain stimulus. Crucially, they approach optimal behavior even when denied the opportunity to learn adaptive decision strategies based on immediate feedback. Our data thus support the idea that flexible representations of uncertainty are pre-existing, widespread, and can be propagated to decision-making areas of the brain.

Impulsive violent criminal behavior is often ascribed to problems with behavioral control. Such behavior could be a consequence of stronger pre-potent responses or a failure of inhibitory control. A countermanding task which allows dissociation of these two processes was used to examine whether impulsive violent offenders were found to exhibit impaired inhibitory control. An experiment with a time restriction on responding was performed to effectively limit the ability of the subjects to strategically control their error rate. The results showed that the performance of the impulsive violent offenders was only impaired in the time pressure condition. These findings suggest that impulsive violent behavior may be linked to abnormal modulation of the frontal cortical areas, areas thought to be involved in response inhibition by negative feedback or emotional responses, rather than frontal dysfunction per se.
This study investigated if sub-populations of rats characterized by their basal level of impulsivity (BLI) in a delayed-reinforcement task, displayed differences in the functioning of neurotransmitter systems modulating impulsive choice behavior. For this, the effects of various doses of caffeine and d-amphetamine were investigated in three sub-populations of rats displaying pronounced differences in their impulsive choice behavior and their post-mortem serotonergic and dopaminergic functions were assessed. Caffeine and d-amphetamine reduce impulsive choice behavior only in the Medium BLI sub-population. Dopamine utilization was similar in the three sub-populations, but serotonin utilization was lower in the prefrontal cortex of the Medium and Very high BLI sub-populations as compared to the low BLI one. These results suggest that anti-impulsive effects of caffeine and d-amphetamine are dependent on the BLI of rats and that a low serotonergic function in the prefrontal cortex may be a trait marker of impulsivity evaluated by impulsive choice behavior.
Endogenous opioids have long been implicated in mechanisms of appetite control. A significant strand in the evidence base has been the hypophagic action of broad-spectrum opioid receptor antagonists (such as naloxone) in opiate-nave animals. However, while much has been learned about sites of action, underlying receptor mechanisms and the role of taste hedonics, surprisingly little is known about the behavioural selectivity of naloxone-induced hypophagia. As such, two experiments employed detailed video analysis to profile the behavioural effects of naloxone (Experiment 1: 1.0-5.0 mg/kg; Experiment 2: 0.01-1.0 mg/kg) in non-deprived male rats during 1 h free-feeding tests with palatable mash. Results confirmed that, at doses &gt; or =1.0 mg/kg, naloxone consistently suppresses food consumption and feeding behaviour but, congruent with its short biological half-life, had no carryover effects on post-treatment weight gain. Crucially, the anorectic doses of naloxone did not alter the time taken to find food or to commence feeding, the time spent feeding in the initial phase of testing, or the rate at which food was consumed. Furthermore, they neither interfered with non-ingestive components of the behavioural repertoire (e.g. locomotion, rearing) nor did they disrupt the normal structure of feeding behaviour (the behavioural satiety sequence, BSS). Rather, the principal effect of naloxone was to produce a shift to the left in (i.e. accelerate) the BSS. Findings are discussed in relation to the role of (mu) opioid receptor mechanisms in taste hedonics and the likelihood of a naloxone-induced reduction in the orosensory reward that would normally accompany/follow the ingestion of palatable food.
The neuropeptides oxytocin and vasopressin have been implicated in rodent social and affiliative behaviors, including social bonding, parental care, social recognition, social memory, vocalizations, territoriality, and aggression, as well as components of human social behaviors and the etiology of autism. Previous investigations of mice with various manipulations of the oxytocin and vasopressin systems reported unusual levels of ultrasonic vocalizations in social settings. We employed a vasopressin 1b receptor (Avpr1b) knockout mouse to evaluate the role of the vasopressin 1b receptor subtype in the emission of ultrasonic vocalizations in adult and infant mice. Avpr1b null mutant female mice emitted fewer ultrasonic vocalizations, and their vocalizations were generally at lower frequencies, during a resident-intruder test. Avpr1b null mutant pups emitted ultrasonic vocalizations similar to heterozygote and wildtype littermates when separated from the nest on postnatal days 3, 6, 9, and 12. However, maternal potentiation of ultrasonic vocalizations in Avpr1b null and heterozygote mutants was absent, when tested at postnatal day 9. These results indicate that Avpr1b null mutant mice are impaired in the modulation of ultrasonic vocalizations within different social contexts at infant and adult ages.
Cannabinoid receptors and their endogenous ligands (endocannabinoids) have been implicated in cocaine and amphetamine reward. Their role in psychostimulant-induced behavioural sensitization still has to be determined. The purpose of the present study was, for one, to compare the effects of a pharmacological and genetic manipulation of CB(1) cannabinoid receptors on amphetamine-induced locomotor sensitization in mice, and, secondly, to quantify the concentration of anandamide and 2-arachidonoylglycerol in different forebrain areas of behaviourally sensitized animals. The results can be summarized as follows: CB(1) knockout mice failed to sensitize to the locomotor stimulant effects of amphetamine. On the contrary, administration of the CB(1) receptor antagonist SR141716A (rimonabant; 3mg/kg; i.p.) increased amphetamine sensitization in wild-type animals, indicating that the difference between CB(1) knockouts and SR141716A treated animals could be due to the 'chronic' versus 'acute' loss of CB(1) receptor function, or, alternatively, that SR141716A could exert pharmacological effects beyond its proposed CB(1) antagonistic action. Furthermore, sensitized wild-type mice and animals, which had received a single amphetamine injection on the challenge day, both had increased anandamide concentrations in the dorsal striatum and decreased anandamide levels in the ventral striatum, comprising nucleus accumbens. 2-Arachidonoylglycerol levels were decreased in the ventral striatum of sensitized animals only. Together, these findings suggest that prolonged activation of dopamine receptors could alter endocannabinoid levels and support the proposed involvement of the CB(1) receptor in amphetamine sensitization.
Using a rat model of adolescent social stress (SS, daily 1 h isolation and change of cage partner, 30-45 days of age), we have reported sex-specific effects on neuroendocrine function over the course of SS, and enduring effects of SS in females, and not males, on drug-related behaviour. Here, we investigated both the immediate and enduring impact of SS in adolescence on anxiety-like behaviour in the elevated plus maze (EPM) and determined the temporal pattern of corticosterone release after confinement to the open arm of the EPM. When tested as adolescents, SS decreased anxiety-like behaviour in females and had no effect in males. When tested as adults several weeks after the chronic stress, overall, SS tended to increase anxiety-like behaviour in both sexes. However, estrous cycle moderated the effect in females, in that reduced anxiety-like behaviour was observed for SS females in the estrous group. Confinement to the open arm of the EPM increased plasma corticosterone concentrations, which declined markedly upon return to home cage for all except adolescent control males for which corticosterone concentrations at 45 and 90 min were elevated compared other groups. Among controls, anxiety-like behaviour decreased in females and increased in males with age, and confinement to the open arm of the EPM led to a greater increase in corticosterone concentrations in adult males compared to adolescent males. In sum, modest effects of adolescent social stress were observable several weeks after the stress exposure, indicating that sex-specific developmental trajectories and vulnerability to anxiety may be shaped by experiences in adolescence.
In Friedreich's ataxia, reduction of the mitochondria protein frataxin results in the accumulation of iron and reactive oxygen species, which leads to oxidative damage, neurodegeneration and a diminished lifespan. Recent studies propose that frataxin might play a role in the antioxidative process. Here we show that overexpression of Drosophila frataxin in the mitochondria of female transgenic animals increases antioxidant capability, resistance to oxidative stress insults, and longevity. This suggests that Drosophila frataxin may function to protect the mitochondria from oxidative stresses and the ensuing cellular damage.

Presynaptic action potential-independent transmitter release is a potential means of information transfer across synapses. We show that in the hippocampal mossy fiber boutons, activation of the alpha7-subtype of nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (alpha7-nAChRs) results in a large increase in the amplitude of spontaneous events, resulting from concerted release of multiple quanta from the mossy fiber boutons. This amplitude increase is abolished at low temperatures. Activation of alpha7-nAChRs causes a rise in intraterminal calcium at mossy fiber boutons, involving ryanodine receptors. Regulation of concerted release requires the subsequent activation of presynaptic calcium/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II (CaMKII). Activation of CaMKII is required to drive presynaptic action potential-independent transmission at the mossy fiber-CA3 pyramidal cell synapse. The effects of alpha7-nAChR activation are mediated by biologically relevant doses of nicotine. Our results demonstrate a novel form of synaptic plasticity mediated by presynaptic alpha7-nAChRs and store calcium that is temporally different and might respond to a different history of synaptic activity than that mediated by incoming action potentials.
Reactive gliosis is characterized by enhanced glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) expression, cellular hypertrophy, and astrocyte proliferation. The cellular and molecular mechanisms underlying this process are still largely undefined. We investigated the role of endothelin-1 (ET-1) in reactive gliosis in corpus callosum after lysolecithin (LPC)-induced focal demyelination and in cultured astrocytes. We show that ET-1 levels are upregulated in demyelinated lesions within 5 d after LPC injection, together with enhanced astrocyte proliferation, GFAP expression, and JNK phosphorylation. Infusion of the pan-ET-receptor (ET-R) antagonist Bosentan or the selective ET(B)-R antagonist BQ788 into the corpus callosum prevented postlesion astrocyte proliferation and JNK phosphorylation. In cultured astrocytes, ET-1-induced activation of ET(B)-Rs promotes a reactive phenotype by enhancing both GFAP expression and astrocyte proliferation. In the same cells, ET-1 activates both JNK and p38MAPK pathways, and induces c-Jun expression at the mRNA and protein levels. By using selective pharmacological inhibitors, we also provide evidence that ET-1 induces astrocyte proliferation and GFAP expression through activation of ERK- and JNK-dependent pathways, consistent with the previous observation of ET-1-induced activation of ERK (Schinelli et al., 2001). Finally, we show by gain and loss of function that increased c-Jun expression enhances the proliferative response of astrocytes to ET-1, whereas c-jun siRNA prevents ET-1-induced cell proliferation. Our results indicate that the effects of ET-1 on astrocyte proliferation depend on c-Jun induction and activation through ERK- and JNK-dependent pathways, and suggest that ET-R-associated pathways might represent important targets to control reactive gliosis.
The cerebellum is an excellent model system to study how developmental programs give rise to exquisite neuronal circuits in the adult brain. Here, we describe our findings regarding granule cell neurogenesis and differentiation using the MADM method (mosaic analysis with double markers) in mice. By following the development of individual granule cell clones, we show that (1) granule cell precursors (GCPs) undergo predominantly symmetric division during postnatal development; (2) clonally related granule cells (GCs) exit the cell cycle within a narrow time window and stack their axons in the molecular layer in chronological order from deep to superficial sublayers; and (3) whereas the average GCP proliferation in the external granular layer is progressively slower as development proceeds, there is a rapid expansion of GCPs shortly before clonally related GCs exit the cell cycle. These properties produce GC clones that are distinct, each having a restricted axonal projection, but that are on average similar in cell number. We discuss possible developmental mechanisms and functional implications of these findings.


Choline availability in the maternal diet has a lasting effect on brain and behavior of the offspring. To further delineate the impact of early nutritional status, we examined effects of prenatal-choline supplementation on timing, emotion, and memory performance of adult male and female rats. Rats that were given sufficient choline (CON: 1.1 g/kg) or supplemental choline (SUP: 5.0 g/kg) during embryonic days (ED) 12-17 were trained with a differential reinforcement of low-rate (DRL) schedule that was gradually transitioned through 5-, 10-, 18-, 36-, and 72-sec criterion times. We observed that SUP-females emitted more reinforced responses than CON-females, which were more efficient than both groups of males. In addition, SUP-males and SUP-females exhibited a reduction in burst responding (response latencies &lt;2 sec) compared with both groups of CON rats. Furthermore, despite a reduced level of burst responding, the SUP-males made more nonreinforced responses prior to the DRL criterion as a result of maintaining the previous DRL criterion following transition to a new criterion. In summary, long-lasting effects of prenatal-choline supplementation were exhibited by reduced frustrative DRL responding in conjunction with the persistence of temporal memory in SUP-males and enhanced temporal exploration and response efficiency in SUP-females.
We used an auditory-visual distraction task to investigate the functional relationship between distraction elicited by auditory novel events and a context of negative emotional processing, both at behavioural and electrophysiological (event-related brain potentials) levels in humans. Participants performed a decision task on pictures disclosing sceneries with a task-irrelevant emotional load or neutral, whereas ignoring sounds presented concomitantly. Our data showed that novel sounds yielded stronger behavioural disruption on participants' visual task performance in negative context compared to the neutral one. Accordingly, late novelty P3 responses to novel sounds were enhanced. These results demonstrate that the negative emotional context enhances the activation of neural networks in the auditory novelty system, enhancing auditory novelty processing under potentially threatening conditions.
Sequential finger movements of the unilateral hand and associated brain activities have been extensively investigated. The current functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) study was designed to explore the differential patterns of brain activation and deactivation between dominant and nondominant hands, using independent-component analysis (ICA). Eight right-handed and two left-handed participants, all native Chinese, were included in this study. fMRI data were acquired for each participant while performing dominant and nondominant hand movements sequentially, using a box-car design. ICA was applied to the sequentially realigned, spatially normalized, and smoothed fMRI data. Consistent with earlier findings, we found that the contralateral primary motor and premotor cortices, as well as the bilateral supplementary motor areas, were all activated for both dominant and nondominant hand-movement tasks. More interestingly, the ipsilateral primary motor cortex was deactivated only for the nondominant hand, and no ipsilateral deactivation was detected for the dominant hand. This dominant/nondominant deactivation difference was consistent for all participants, regardless of their handedness. These results suggest asymmetrically functional patterns for the dominant and nondominant motor cortices.
Pharmacological activation of group III metabotropic glutamate receptors (mGluR) or inhibition of group I mGluR by subtype-selective ligands is neuroprotective in experimental models of Parkinson's disease. The aim of this study was to investigate whether targeting both receptor subtypes simultaneously produces enhanced neuroprotection. Rodents bearing a 6-hydroxydopamine lesion were intranigrally administered either the group III mGluR agonist L-(+)-2-amino-4-phosphonobutyric acid or the group I mGluR antagonist 2-methyl-6-(phenylethynyl)pyridine, alone or in combination. Coadministration of L-(+)-2-amino-4-phosphonobutyric acid and 2-methyl-6-(phenylethynyl)pyridine resulted in robust nigrostriatal neuroprotection that was significantly increased compared with either compound alone. These data suggest that targeting multiple mGluR subtypes with low doses of selective ligands may provide an enhanced therapeutic response in experimental models of Parkinson's disease.
Lesch-Nyhan syndrome is a rare genetic disorder, caused by a mutation in the gene coding for the enzyme hypoxanthine-guanine phosphoribosyltransferase, which is characterized by hyperuricemia and its associated symptoms along with motor disorders and compulsive self-mutilation. We show that the temporal difference learning algorithm that has been often used to interpret dopaminergic activity in the basal ganglia offers an explanation for the self-mutilation behaviors. We propose that a dysfunctional dopamine signal inadvertently reinforces early, accidental injurious behavior that is initially caused by clumsiness owing to the motor disorders. Simulations of this model reproduce findings on the results of behavioral treatments for dealing with self-mutilation behaviors.

A study was conducted to clarify the effects of magnesium (Mg) administration in a rat Parkinson disease (PD) model involving culture of ventral mesencephalic-striatal cells with 1-methyl-4-phenylpyridinium (MPP+), based on recent evidence for significant loss of dopaminergic neurons exclusively in the substantia nigra of 1-year-old rats after exposure to low Mg intake over generations [Oyanagi, K., Kawakami, E., Kikuchi-Horie, K., Ohara, K., Ogata, K., Takahama, S., Wada, M., Kihira, T., Yasui, M., 2006. Magnesium deficiency over generations in rats with special references to the pathogenesis of the parkinsonism-dementia complex and amyotrophic lateral sclerosis of Guam. Neuropathology 26, 115-128.]. The results indicated that Mg might protect dopaminergic neurons in the substantia nigra from degeneration. The concentration of Mg in the culture medium varied from 0.8 mM, corresponding to the control condition, to 4.0 mM. Effects were estimated by counting the number of surviving dopaminergic neurons immunopositive for tyrosine hydroxylase and measuring the length of dopaminergic neurites. An increase in the concentration of Mg to 1.2 mM significantly inhibited the toxicity of MPP+, and a concentration of 4.0 mM completely prevented any decrease in the number of dopaminergic neurons. The length of dopaminergic neurites was significantly preserved in the presence of Mg at 1.2 and 4.0 mM. An increase in the concentration of Mg to 1.2 and 4.0 mM led to a significant amelioration in the length of dopaminergic neurites after MPP+ toxicity. This is the first report to document a significant and striking effect of Mg for prevention of neurite and neuron pathology, and also amelioration of neurite pathology in a PD model.
Neural progenitor proliferation, differentiation, and migration are continually ongoing processes in the subventricular zone (SVZ) and rostral migratory stream (RMS) of the adult brain. There is evidence that peptidergic systems may be involved in the molecular cascades regulating these neurogenic processes, and we examined a possible influence of neuropeptide Y (NPY) and cholecystokinin (CCK) systems in cell proliferation and neuroblast formation in the SVZ and RMS and generation of interneurons in the olfactory bulb (OB). We show that NPY and the Y1 and Y2 receptor (R) proteins are expressed in and surrounding the SVZ and RMS and that Y1R is located on neuroblasts in the anterior RMS. Mice deficient in Y1Rs or Y2Rs have fewer Ki-67-immunoreactive (ir) proliferating precursor cells and doublecortin-ir neuroblasts in the SVZ and RMS than WT mice, and less calbindin-, calretinin-, and tyrosine hydroxylase-ir interneurons in the OB. Mice lacking CCK1Rs have fewer proliferating cells and neuroblasts than normal and a shortage of interneurons in the OB. These findings suggest that both NPY and CCK through their receptors help to regulate the proliferation of precursor cells, the amount of neuroblast cells in the SVZ and RMS, and influence the differentiation of OB interneurons.
The mechanism of action of the antiepileptic and antinociceptive drugs of the gabapentinoid family has remained poorly understood. Gabapentin (GBP) binds to an exofacial epitope of the alpha(2)delta-1 and alpha(2)delta-2 auxiliary subunits of voltage-gated calcium channels, but acute inhibition of calcium currents by GBP is either very minor or absent. We formulated the hypothesis that GBP impairs the ability of alpha(2)delta subunits to enhance voltage-gated Ca(2+)channel plasma membrane density by means of an effect on trafficking. Our results conclusively demonstrate that GBP inhibits calcium currents, mimicking a lack of alpha(2)delta only when applied chronically, but not acutely, both in heterologous expression systems and in dorsal root-ganglion neurons. GBP acts primarily at an intracellular location, requiring uptake, because the effect of chronically applied GBP is blocked by an inhibitor of the system-L neutral amino acid transporters and enhanced by coexpression of a transporter. However, it is mediated by alpha(2)delta subunits, being prevented by mutations in either alpha(2)delta-1 or alpha(2)delta-2 that abolish GBP binding, and is not observed for alpha(2)delta-3, which does not bind GBP. Furthermore, the trafficking of alpha(2)delta-2 and Ca(V)2 channels is disrupted both by GBP and by the mutation in alpha(2)delta-2, which prevents GBP binding, and we find that GBP reduces cell-surface expression of alpha(2)delta-2 and Ca(V)2.1 subunits. Our evidence indicates that GBP may act chronically by displacing an endogenous ligand that is normally a positive modulator of alpha(2)delta subunit function, thereby impairing the trafficking function of the alpha(2)delta subunits to which it binds.
The understanding of the structural and dynamic complexity of mammalian brains is greatly facilitated by computer simulations. We present here a detailed large-scale thalamocortical model based on experimental measures in several mammalian species. The model spans three anatomical scales. (i) It is based on global (white-matter) thalamocortical anatomy obtained by means of diffusion tensor imaging (DTI) of a human brain. (ii) It includes multiple thalamic nuclei and six-layered cortical microcircuitry based on in vitro labeling and three-dimensional reconstruction of single neurons of cat visual cortex. (iii) It has 22 basic types of neurons with appropriate laminar distribution of their branching dendritic trees. The model simulates one million multicompartmental spiking neurons calibrated to reproduce known types of responses recorded in vitro in rats. It has almost half a billion synapses with appropriate receptor kinetics, short-term plasticity, and long-term dendritic spike-timing-dependent synaptic plasticity (dendritic STDP). The model exhibits behavioral regimes of normal brain activity that were not explicitly built-in but emerged spontaneously as the result of interactions among anatomical and dynamic processes. We describe spontaneous activity, sensitivity to changes in individual neurons, emergence of waves and rhythms, and functional connectivity on different scales.
By opening and closing the permeation pathway (gating) in response to cGMP binding, cyclic nucleotide-gated (CNG) channels serve key roles in the transduction of visual and olfactory signals. Compiling evidence suggests that the activation gate in CNG channels is not located at the intracellular end of pore, as it has been established for voltage-activated potassium (K(V)) channels. Here, we show that ion permeation in CNG channels is tightly regulated at the selectivity filter. By scanning the entire selectivity filter using small cysteine reagents, like cadmium and silver, we observed a state-dependent accessibility pattern consistent with gated access at the middle of the selectivity filter, likely at the corresponding position known to regulate structural changes in KcsA channels in response to low concentrations of permeant ions.
Despite recent advances in conventional therapeutic approaches for cancer, the frequently observed acquired drug resistance and toxic side effects have limited their clinical application. The main goal of this work was to investigate the combined antitumoral effect of vinblastine with HSV-Tk/GCV &quot;suicide&quot; gene therapy mediated by human serum albumin (HSA)-associated lipoplexes, in mammary adenocarcinoma cells (TSA cells). Our results show that, among the different lipoplex formulations tested, HSA-associated complexes prepared from EPOPC:Chol liposomes, at the (4/1) (+/-) charge ratio, was the most efficient to mediate gene delivery, even in the presence of serum. The simultaneous addition of vinblastine and HSA-EPOPC:Chol/DNA (+/-) (4/1) lipoplexes to TSA cells improved transgene expression more than 10 times. When combined with the HSV-Tk/GCV &quot;suicide&quot; gene therapy mediated by HSA-EPOPC:Chol/DNA (+/-) (4/1) lipoplexes, vinblastine induced a great enhancement in the antitumoral activity in TSA cells. Most importantly, this combined strategy resulted in a significant synergistic effect, thus allowing the use of a much lower dose of the drug to achieve the same therapeutic effect. Overall, our results indicate that this approach has the potential to overcome some major limitations of conventional chemotherapy, and may therefore constitute a promising strategy for future applications in antitumoral therapy.
Experimental studies in various animal models have revealed convincing evidence that stressful experience during early developmental periods produces a variety of behavioral, neuroanatomical and endocrine alterations, which are reminiscent of human mental disorders such as depression and various types of anxiety disorders. Since these mental disorders are assumed to be associated with altered GABAergic inhibition in cortical and subcortical brain regions, the current study tested the hypothesis that early postnatal adverse emotional experience (separation stress) interferes with the establishment and functional maturation of distinct inhibitory interneuron populations in different subregions of the medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC) of the precocious rodent degu (Octodon degus). At the age around puberty early stressed animals displayed significantly lower densities of calbindin-D28k-immunoreactive interneurons in the anterior cingulate (down to 79%) and in the precentral medial (down to 64%) subregions of the mPFC compared with age-matched unstressed controls. At this age the densities of two other interneuron types characterized by their expression of the calcium-binding proteins parvalbumin or calretinin remained at control levels. In adulthood, i.e. after an extended period without stress exposure, the density of calbindin-D28k-immunoreactive interneurons in the stressed animals was back to control numbers, whereas parvalbumin-immunoreactive interneurons displayed significantly elevated density in the anterior cingulate (up to 138%) and in the precentral medial cortex (up to 137%) of the stressed animals. In both age groups the density of calretinin- and corticotropin releasing hormone-immunoreactive interneurons did not differ between stressed and control animals, and the prelimbic and infralimbic subregions of the medial prefrontal cortex remained unaffected by stress experience. These results confirm that early adverse emotional experience induces long lasting age-, region- and neuron-specific imbalance of inhibitory systems in some, but not all subregions of the medial prefrontal cortex of the degu.
Matrix metalloproteinases (MMPs) have been implicated in the pathophysiology of ischemic stroke. In particular, the gelatinases MMP-2 and MMP-9 contribute to disruption of the blood-brain barrier and hemorrhagic transformation following ischemic injury. In addition to extracellular matrix degradation, MMPs may directly regulate neuronal cell death through mechanisms that are not completely understood. Here we describe the spatio-temporal distribution of activated MMP-2 and MMP-9 in the brain of rats subjected to 2 h middle cerebral artery occlusion (MCAo) followed by different periods of reperfusion (15 min, 2 h, 6 h and 22 h). By in situ zymography we have observed that gelatinases become activated 15 min and 2 h after the beginning of reperfusion in the ischemic core and penumbra, respectively. In situ zymography signal broadly co-localized with NeuN-positive cells, thus suggesting that proteolysis mainly occurs in neurons. Gelatinolytic activity was mainly detected in cell nuclei, marginally appearing in the cytosol only at later stages following the insult; we did not detect variations in gelatinolysis in the extracellular matrix. Finally, we report that pharmacological inhibition of MMPs by N-[(2R)-2-(hydroxamidocarbonyl-methyl)-4-methylpenthanoyl]-L-tryptophan methylamide (GM6001) significantly reduces brain infarct volume induced by transient MCAo. Taken together our data underscore the crucial role of gelatinases during the early stages of reperfusion and further extend previous observations documenting the detrimental role of these enzymes in the pathophysiology of brain ischemia.
In an attempt to develop an animal model to study the etiology of brain dysfunction in relation to early life experience, we tested the hypothesis that early-life stress during specific postnatal time windows affects long-term potentiation (LTP) reinforcement in adolescence. Male Wistar rat pups were stressed by separation from their dams for 24 h at postnatal day (PND) 4, 9, or 18. The animals were tested for reinforcement of LTP at adolescence (9 weeks old) by exposing them to a 2-min swim-stress. Here, we show that maternal separation during (at PND9) but not at the beginning (at PND4) or after (at PND18) the stress-hyporesponsive-period of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal-axis impairs emotional LTP-reinforcement in adolescent animals. Thus, this in vivo model allows the investigation of physiological and pathophysiological emotional information processing at the cellular level in freely behaving adolescent animals.
We used functional magnetic resonance imaging to differentiate cerebral areas involved in two different dimensions of haptic shape perception: encoding and matching. For this purpose, healthy right-handed subjects were asked to compare pairs of complex 2D geometrical tactile shapes presented in a sequential two-alternative forced-choice task. Shape encoding involved a large sensorimotor network including the primary (SI) and secondary (SII) somatosensory cortex, the anterior part of the intraparietal sulcus (IPA) and of the supramarginal gyrus (SMG), regions previously associated with somatosensory shape perception. Activations were also observed in posterior parietal regions (aSPL), motor and premotor regions (primary motor cortex (MI), ventral premotor cortex, dorsal premotor cortex, supplementary motor area), as well as prefrontal areas (aPFC, VLPFC), parietal-occipital cortex (POC) and cerebellum. We propose that this distributed network reflects construction and maintenance of sensorimotor traces of exploration hand movements during complex shape encoding, and subsequent transformation of these traces into a more abstract shape representation using kinesthetic imagery. Moreover, haptic shape encoding was found to activate the left lateral occipital complex (LOC), thus corroborating the implication of this extrastriate visual area in multisensory shape representation, besides its contribution to visual imagery. Furthermore, left hemisphere predominance was shown during encoding, whereas right hemisphere predominance was associated with the matching process. Activations of SI, MI, PMd and aSPL, which were predominant in the left hemisphere during the encoding, were shifted to the right hemisphere during the matching. In addition, new activations emerged (right dorsolateral pre-frontal cortex, bilateral inferior parietal lobe, right SII) suggesting their specific involvement during 2D geometrical shape matching.
Ecstasy (3,4-methylenedioxymethamphetamine; MDMA) has potent CNS stimulant effects. Besides the acute effects of MDMA, such as psychomotor activation, euphoria, decreased appetite, and hyperthermia, long-term damage of dopaminergic and serotonergic nerve terminals in multiple brain areas have also been reported. Although some studies have demonstrated that considerable amounts of MDMA reach the vitreous humor of the eye, and that serious visual consequences can result from MDMA consumption, the toxic effect of MDMA on the retina has not been completely elucidated. Neuropeptide Y (NPY) is present in the CNS, including the retina. The aim of the present study was to evaluate the effect of MDMA on rat retinal neural cell viability and investigate the involvement of 5-HT 2A-receptor (5-HT(2A)) activation. Moreover, the neuroprotective role of NPY on MDMA-induced toxicity was also investigated. MDMA induced necrosis [MTT (3-(4,5-dimethylthiazol-2-yl)-2,5-diphenyltetrazolium bromide) and propidium iodide assays] and apoptosis (immunoreactivity of cleaved caspase-3) in mixed cultures of retinal neural cells (neurons, macroglia and microglia), in a concentration-dependent manner. MDMA-induced toxicity was enhanced at higher temperature (40 degrees C) and was reduced by the 5HT(2A)-receptor antagonist, ketanserin (1 microM). Interestingly, necrotic and apoptotic cell death induced by MDMA was inhibited by NPY (100 nM).
The development of long-range horizontal connections depends on visual experience. Previous experiments have shown that in area 17 of strabismic but not in normal cats, horizontal fibers preferentially connect cell groups driven by the same eye indicating that fibers between coactive neurons are selectively stabilized. To test whether this is a general organizing principle of intracortical long-range circuitry we extended our analyses to both intrinsic horizontal connections within area 18 and to inter-areal connections between areas 17 and 18. To this end, we visualized the functional architecture of area 18 by intrinsic signal imaging. Horizontal circuitry was labeled by injecting fluorescent latex microspheres into functionally identified domains. Additionally, domains sharing the same ocular dominance as the neurons at the injection sites were visualized by 2-deoxyglucose autoradiography to allow comprehensive labeling of functional domains in regions far from the injection sites. Quantitative analyses revealed that in strabismic cats, 72% of the retrogradely labeled neurons in area 18 and 68% of the neurons in area 17 were located in the same ocular dominance domains as the injection sites. In contrast, these numbers were 52% and 54% in normal animals. These data show that experience modifies both intrinsic connections within area 18 and inter-areal projections from area 17 to area 18 as has been previously described for intrinsic and callosal connections in area 17. This provides further evidence for the hypothesis that the correlation of activity is a major selection criterion for the stabilization of neuronal circuits during postnatal development.
Within the dorsomedial hypothalamus (DMH), cholecystokinin (CCK) has been proposed to modulate neuropeptide Y (NPY) signaling to affect food intake. However, the neural circuitry underlying the actions of this CCK-NPY signaling system in the controls of food intake has yet to be determined. We sought to characterize the feeding inhibition and brain neural activation produced by CCK administration into the DMH of rats. We determined the time course of feeding inhibitory effects of exogenous DMH CCK, assessed NPY gene expression in the DMH in response to DMH CCK administration, and characterized c-Fos activation in the entire brain induced by CCK injection into the DMH using c-Fos like immunohistochemistry. We found that parenchymal injection of CCK into the DMH decreased food intake during the entire 22 h observation period, with a primary effect in the first 4 h, and down-regulated NPY gene expression in the DMH. c-Fos immunohistochemistry revealed that DMH CCK increased the number of c-Fos positive cells in the paraventricular nucleus (PVN), arcuate nucleus, suprachiasmatic nucleus and retrochiasmatic area as well as in the contralateral DMH. This pattern of activity is different from that produced by peripherally administered CCK which is short acting and primarily activates neurons in the nucleus of the solitary tract and area postrema, as well as the PVN and DMH. Together, these data suggest that DMH CCK plays an important role in the control of food intake, and does so by activating different pathways from those activated by peripheral CCK.
Substance P (SP) and calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) released from capsaicin-sensitive sensory nerves induce local neurogenic inflammation in the innervated area. The aim of the present study was to investigate the effects of an endogenous opioid peptide, endomorphin-1, on sensory neuropeptide release in vitro and acute neurogenic and non-neurogenic inflammatory reactions in vivo. Electrical field stimulation (EFS; 40 V, 0.1 ms, 10 Hz, 120 s; 1200 impulses) was performed to evoke SP and CGRP release from peptidergic afferents of the isolated rat tracheae which was determined from the incubation medium with radioimmunoassay. Neurogenic inflammation in the skin of the acutely denervated rat hind paw was induced by topical application of 1% mustard oil and detected by Evans Blue leakage. Mustard oil-induced ear swelling of the mouse was determined with a micrometer during 3 h and myeloperoxidase activity as an indicator of granulocyte accumulation was measured with spectrophotometry at 6 h. EFS evoked about a twofold elevation in the release of both pro-inflammatory sensory neuropeptides. Endomorphin-1 (5 nM-2 microM) diminished the release of SP and CGRP in a concentration-dependent manner, the EC50 values were 39.45 nM and 10.84 nM, respectively. The maximal inhibitory action was about 80% in both cases. Administration of endomorphin-1 (1-100 microg/kg i.p.) dose-dependently inhibited mustard oil-evoked neurogenic plasma protein extravasation in the rat skin as determined by microg Evans Blue per g wet tissue. Repeated i.p. injections of the 10 microg/kg dose three times per day for 10 days did not induce desensitization in this model. Neurogenic swelling of the mouse ear was also dose-dependently diminished by 1-100 microg/kg i.p. endomorphin-1, but non-neurogenic neutrophil accumulation was not influenced. These results suggest that endomorphin-1 is able to inhibit the outflow of pro-inflammatory sensory neuropeptides. Based on this mechanism of action it is also able to effectively diminish neurogenic inflammatory responses in vivo.
The goal of this study was to analyze the synaptic interaction of primary afferents with GABA- and/or glycine-immunopositive presynaptic endings in the cat trigeminal interpolar nucleus (Vi). Fast adapting vibrissa afferents were labeled by intra-axonal injections of horseradish peroxidase. Postembedding immunogold labeling on serially cut ultrathin sections and quantitative ultrastructural analysis of the labeled boutons and their presynaptic endings (p-endings) in the Vi were performed. The majority of p-endings presynaptic to labeled boutons (83%) were immunopositive for both GABA and glycine and 8% were immunopositive for glycine alone. A small fraction of p-endings were immunopositive for GABA alone (4%) or immunonegative for both GABA and glycine (4%). Ultrastructural parameters related to synaptic release, i.e. bouton volume, mitochondrial volume, and active zone area, were significantly larger in the labeled boutons of primary afferents than in the p-endings. The volume of labeled boutons was positively correlated with the number of the postsynaptic dendrites and p-endings. In addition, fairly large-sized labeled boutons and p-endings were frequently observed in the Vi. These results reveal that large majority of vibrissa afferents in the Vi are presynaptically modulated by interneurons immunopositive for both GABA and glycine, and suggest that the Vi plays a distinct role in the processing of orofacial sensory information, different from that of other trigeminal sensory nuclei.
The present study investigated the hypothesis that hydrogen sulfide (H2S) is pro-nociceptive in the formalin model of persistent inflammatory pain in the adult rat. Hind paw injection of formalin evoked a concentration-dependent increase in the hind paw concentration of H2S. Increased concentration of H2S was found in homogenates prepared from hind paws injected with 5% (but not 1.25%) formalin. Correspondingly, animal nociceptive flinching and hind paw edema were maximal with 5% formalin. Both nociceptive flinching and hind paw edema induced by injection of 5% formalin were attenuated by pretreatment with DL-propargylglycine (PPG; 50 mg/kg, i.p.) which is an inhibitor of the H2S synthesizing enzyme cystathionine-gamma-lyase (CSE). The effect of pretreatment with PPG was selective and the drug did not influence animal behavior or hind-paw edema with injection of 1.25% formalin. Furthermore, PPG pretreatment attenuated the induction of c-Fos in spinal laminae I-II following injection of 5% formalin. In contrast, co-injection of 1.25% formalin with sodium hydrogen sulfide (NaHS; 1 nmol/0.1 ml), a H2S donor, into the hind paw increased animal nociceptive behavior. Collectively, these findings show that the effect of peripheral H2S in the pathogenesis of inflammatory pain depends, at least in part, on the nociceptive intensity level.
Despite extensive investigations into the mechanisms of aerobic respiration in mitochondria, the spontaneous metabolic activity of individual cells within a whole animal has not been observed in real time. Consequently, little is known about whether and how the level of mitochondrial energy metabolism is regulated in a cell during development of intact systems. Here we studied the dynamics of postsynaptic oxidative metabolism by monitoring the redox state of mitochondrial flavoproteins, an established indicator of energy metabolism, at the developing Drosophila neuromuscular junction. We detected transient and spatially synchronized flavoprotein autofluorescence signals in postsynaptic muscle cells. These signals were dependent on the energy substrates and coupled to changes in mitochondrial membrane potential and Ca2+ concentration. Notably, the rate of autofluorescence signals increased during synapse formation through contact with the motoneuronal axon. This rate was also influenced by the magnitude of synaptic inputs. Thus, presynaptic cells tightly regulate postsynaptic energy metabolism presumably to maintain an energetic balance during neuromuscular synaptogenesis. Our results suggest that flavoprotein autofluorescence imaging should allow us to begin assessing the progress of synapse formation from a metabolic perspective.
Oxidative stress in the cochlea is considered to play an important role in noise-induced hearing loss. This study determined changes in superoxide dismutase (SOD), catalase, lipid peroxidation (LPO) and the auditory brainstem response (ABR) in the cochlea of C57BL/6 mice prior to and immediately, 1, 3, 7, 10, 14 and 21 days after noise exposure (4 kHz octave band at the intensity of 110 dB SPL for 4 h). A significant increase in SOD activity immediately and on 1st day after noise exposure, without a concomitant increase in catalase activity suggested a difference in the time dependent changes in the scavenging enzymes, which facilitates the increase in LPO observed on day 7. The ABR indicated significant noise-induced functional deficits which stabilized in 2 weeks with a permanent threshold shift (PTS) of 15 dB at both 4 kHz and 8 kHz. The antioxidant D-methionine (D-Met) reversed the noise-induced changes in LPO levels and enzyme activities. It also significantly reduced the PTS observed on the 14th day from 15 dB to 5 dB for 4 kHz. In summary, the findings indicate that time-dependent alterations in scavenging enzymes facilitate the production of reactive oxygen species and that D-met effectively attenuates noise-induced oxidative stress and the associated functional loss in the mouse cochlea.
Dorsal horn N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptors contribute significantly to spinal nociceptive processing through an effect postsynaptic to non-primary glutamatergic axons, and perhaps presynaptic to the primary afferent terminals. The present study sought to examine the regulatory effects of NMDA receptors on primary afferent release of substance P (SP), as measured by neurokinin 1 receptor (NK1r) internalization in the spinal dorsal horn of rats. The effects of intrathecal NMDA alone or in combination with D-serine (a glycine site agonist) were initially examined on basal levels of NK1r internalization. NMDA alone or when co-administered with D-serine failed to induce NK1r internalization, whereas activation of spinal TRPV1 receptors by capsaicin resulted in a notable NK1r internalization. To determine whether NMDA receptor activation could potentiate NK1r internalization or pain behavior induced by a peripheral noxious stimulus, intrathecal NMDA was given prior to an intraplantar injection of formalin. NMDA did not alter the formalin-induced NK1r internalization nor did it enhance the formalin paw flinching behavior. To further characterize the effects of presynaptic NMDA receptors, the NMDA antagonists DL-2-amino-5-phosphonopentanoic acid (AP-5) and MK-801 were intrathecally administered to assess their regulatory effects on formalin-induced NK1r internalization and pain behavior. AP-5 had no effect on formalin-induced NK1r internalization, whereas MK-801 produced only a modest reduction. Both antagonists, however, reduced the formalin paw flinching behavior. In subsequent in vitro experiments, perfusion of NMDA in spinal cord slice preparations did not evoke basal release of SP or calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP). Likewise, perfusion of NMDA did not enhance capsaicin-evoked release of the two peptides. These results suggest that presynaptic NMDA receptors in the spinal cord play little if any role on the primary afferent release of SP.
The extracellular concentration of guanidinoacetate (GAA) in the brain increases in guanidino acetate methyl transferase (GAMT) deficiency, an inherited disorder. We tested whether the levels which this substance can reach in the brain in GAMT deficiency are able to activate GABA(A) receptors in key cerebellar neurons such as the cerebellar granules. GAA in fact activates these receptors in rat cerebellar granules in culture although at quite high concentrations, in the millimolar range. However, these millimolar GAA levels are not reached extracellularly in the brain in GAMT deficiency. In addition, GAA does not act as a partial agonist on granules' GABA(A) receptors. This appears to deny an effect by this molecule on cerebellar function in the disease via interference with granule cells' GABA(A) receptors. Study of partial blockage by furosemide of chloride currents activated by GABA and GAA in granule cells allowed us to distinguish two populations of GABA(A) receptors presumably involved in granule cells' tonic inhibition. One is devoid of alpha6 subunit and another one contains it. The latter when activated by GABA has a decay kinetics much slower than the former. GAA does not distinguish between these two populations. In any case, the very high extracellular GAA concentrations able to activate them are not likely to be reached in GAMT deficiency.
Previous studies suggested a relationship between severity of symptoms and the degree of neurofibrillary tangles (NFTs) clustering in different areas of the cortex in Alzheimer's disease (AD). The posterior inferior temporal cortex or Brodmann's area (BA 37) is involved in object naming and recognition memory. But the cellular architecture and connectivity and the NFT pathology of this cortex in AD received inadequate attention. In this report, we describe the laminar distribution and topography of NFT pathology of BA 37 in brains of AD patients by using Thionin staining for Nissl substance, Thioflavin-S staining for NFTs, and phosphorylated tau (AT8) immunohistochemistry. NFTs mostly occurred in cortical layers II, III, V and VI in the area 37 of AD brain. Moreover, NFTs appeared like a patch or in cluster pattern along the cortical layers III and V and within the columns of pyramidal cell layers. The abnormal, intensely labeled AT8 immunoreactive cells were clustered mainly in layers III and V. Based on previously published clinical correlations between cognitive abnormalities in AD and the patterns of laminar distributed NFT cluster pathology in other areas of the brain, we conclude that a similar NFT pathology that severely affected BA 37, may indicate disruption of some forms of naming and object recognition-related circuits in human AD.
Tachykinins (substance P, neurokinin A and neurokinin B) influence autonomic functions by modulating neuron activity in nucleus tractus solitarius (NTS) and dorsal motor nucleus of the vagus (DMV) through activation of neurokinin receptors NK1 and NK3. Our purpose was to identify and define by neurochemical markers, the subpopulations of NK1 and NK3 expressing neurons in NTS and DMV of rat and mouse. Because the distribution of the NK1 and NK3 expressing neurons overlaps, co-expression for both receptors was tested. By double labeling, we show that NK1 and NK3 were not co-expressed in NTS neurons. In the DMV, most of neurons (87%) were immunoreactive for only one of the receptors and 34% of NK1 neurons, 7% of NK3 neurons and 12% of NK1-NK3 neurons were cholinergic neurons. None of the neurons immunoreactive for NK1 or NK3 were positive for tyrosine hydroxylase, suggesting that catecholaminergic cells of the NTS (A2 and C2 groups) did not express neurokinin receptors. The presence of NK1 and NK3 was examined in GABAergic interneurons of the NTS and DMV by using GAD65-EGFP transgenic mouse. Immunoreactivity for NK1 or NK3 was found in a subpopulation of GAD65-EGFP cells. A majority (60%) of NK3 cells, but only 11% of the NK1 cells, were GAD65-EGFP cells. In conclusion, tachykinins, through differential expression of neurokinin receptors, may influence the central regulation of vital functions by acting on separate neuron subpopulations in NTS and DMV. Of particular interest, tachykinins may be involved in inhibitory mechanisms by acting directly on local GABAergic interneurons. Our results support a larger contribution of NK3 compared with NK1 in mediating inhibition in NTS and DMV.
Neurons in the center of cat primary auditory cortex (AI) respond to a narrow range of sound frequencies and the preferred frequencies in local neuron clusters are closely aligned in this central narrow bandwidth region (cNB). Response preferences to other input parameters, such as sound intensity and binaural interaction, vary within cNB; however, the source of this variability is unknown. Here we examined whether input to the cNB could arise from multiple, anatomically independent subregions in the ventral nucleus of the medial geniculate body (MGBv). Retrograde tracers injected into cNB labeled discontinuous clusters of neurons in the superior (sMGBv) and inferior (iMGBv) halves of the MGBv. Most labeled neurons were in the sMGBv and their density was greater, iMGBv somata were significantly larger. These findings suggest that cNB projection neurons in superior and iMGBv have distinct anatomic and possibly physiologic organization.
The notion of functional interactions between the alpha7 nicotinic acetylcholine (alpha7 nACh) and the cannabinoid systems is emerging from recent in vitro and in vivo studies. Both the alpha7 nACh receptor and the cannabinoid receptor 1 (CB1) are highly expressed in the hippocampus. To begin addressing possible anatomical interactions between the alpha7 nACh and the cannabinoid systems in the rat hippocampus, we investigated the distribution of neurons expressing alpha7 nACh mRNA in relation to those containing CB1 mRNA. By in situ hybridization we found that the alpha7 nACh mRNA is diffusely expressed in principal neurons and is highly expressed in a subset of interneurons. We observed that the pattern of distribution of hippocampal interneurons co-expressing transcripts encoding alpha7 nACh and glutamate decarboxylase (GAD; synthesizing enzyme of GABA) closely resembles the one displayed by interneurons expressing CB1 mRNA. By double in situ hybridization we established that the majority of hippocampal interneurons expressing alpha7 nACh mRNA have high levels of CB1 mRNA. As CB1 interneurons contain cholecystokinin (CCK), we investigated the degree of cellular co-expression of alpha7 nACh mRNA and CCK, and found that the cellular co-existence of alpha7 nACh and CCK varies within the different layers of the hippocampus. In summary, we established that most of the hippocampal alpha7 nACh expressing interneurons are endowed with CB1 mRNA. We found that these alpha7 nACh/CB1 interneurons are the major subpopulation of hippocampal interneurons expressing CB1 mRNA. The alpha7 nACh expressing interneurons represent half of the detected population of CCK containing neurons in the hippocampus. Since it is well established that the vast majority of hippocampal interneurons expressing CB1 mRNA have 5-HT type 3 (5-HT3) receptors, we conclude that these hippocampal alpha7 nACh/5HT3/CB1/CCK interneurons correspond to those previously postulated to relay inputs from diverse cortical and subcortical regions about emotional, motivational, and physiological states.
Acute intermittent hypoxia (AIH) elicits a form of respiratory plasticity known as long-term facilitation (LTF). LTF is a progressive and sustained increase in respiratory motor output as expressed in phrenic and hypoglossal (XII) nerve activity. Since reactive oxygen species (ROS) play important roles in several forms of neuroplasticity, and ROS production is increased by intermittent hypoxia, we tested the hypothesis that ROS are necessary for phrenic and XII LTF following AIH. Urethane-anesthetized, paralyzed, vagotomized and pump-ventilated Sprague-Dawley rats were exposed to AIH (11% O2, 3, 5 min episodes, 5 min intervals), and both phrenic and XII nerve activity were monitored for 60 min post-AIH. Although phrenic and XII LTF were observed in control rats, i.v. manganese (III) tetrakis (1-methyl-4-pyridyl) porphyrin pentachloride (MnTMPyP), a superoxide anion scavenger, attenuated both phrenic and XII LTF in a dose dependent manner. Localized application of MnTMPyP (5.5 mM; 10 microl) to the intrathecal space of the cervical spinal cord (C4) abolished phrenic, but not XII LTF. Thus, ROS are necessary for AIH-induced respiratory LTF, and the relevant ROS appear to be localized near respiratory motor nuclei since cervical MnTMPyP injections impaired phrenic (and not XII) LTF. Phrenic LTF is a novel form of ROS-dependent neuroplasticity since its ROS-dependence resides in the spinal cord.
In cats, it is generally believed that the visual part of the anterior ectosylvian cortex (AEV) is involved in motion integration. It receives a substantial proportion of its afferents from cortical (e.g. lateral suprasylvian cortex) and subcortical (e.g. lateral posterior-pulvinar complex) areas known to participate in complex motion analysis. It has been established that a subset of AEV neurons can code the veridical motion of a moving plaid pattern (pattern-motion selectivity). In our study, we have further investigated the possibility that AEV neurons may play a role in higher-order motion processing by studying their responses to complex stimuli which necessitate higher order spatial and temporal integration. Experiments were performed in anesthetized adult cats. Classical receptive fields were stimulated with (1) complex random-dot kinematograms (RDKs), where the individual elements of the pattern do not provide coherent motion cues; (2) optic flow fields which require global spatial integration. We report that a large proportion of AEV neurons were selective to the direction and speed of RDKs. Close to two-thirds of the cells were selective to the direction of optic flow fields with about equal proportions being selective to contraction and expansion. The complex RDK and optic flow responsive units could not be systematically characterized based on their responses to plaid patterns; they were either pattern- or component-motion selective. These findings support the proposal that AEV is involved in higher-order motion processing. Our data suggest that the AEV may be more involved in the analysis of motion of visual patterns in relation to the animal's behavior rather than the analysis of the constituents of the patterns.
Hydrogen sulfide (H2S) is a naturally occurring gas that may act as an endogenous signaling molecule. In the brain, H2S is mainly produced by cystathionine beta-synthase (CBS) and its cellular effects have been attributed to interactions with N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptors and cyclic adenosine 3',5'-monophosphate (cAMP). In contrast, direct vasodilator actions of H2S are most probably mediated by opening smooth muscle ATP-sensitive K+ (K(ATP)) channels. In the hypothalamus, K(ATP) channel-dependent mechanisms are involved in CNS-mediated regulation of blood pressure. In this report, we investigated the hypothesis that H2S may act via K(ATP) channels in the hypothalamus to regulate blood pressure. Mean arterial blood pressure (MAP) and heart rate were monitored in freely moving rats via a pressure transducer placed in the femoral artery. Drugs were infused via a cannula placed in the posterior hypothalamus. Infusion of 200 microM sodium hydrogen sulfide (NaHS), an H2S donor, into the hypothalamus of freely moving rats reduced MAP and heart rate. Infusion of 300 nM to 3 microM gliclazide dose-dependently blocked the effect of 200 microM NaHS. Infusion of the CBS activator, s-adenosyl-L-methionine (0.1 mM and 1 mM), likewise decreased MAP. Infusion of the CBS inhibitors aminooxyacetic acid (10 mM) and hydroxylamine (20 mM) increased MAP but did not block the effects of infusion of 200 microM NaHS. These data indicate that actions of H2S in the hypothalamus decrease blood pressure and heart rate in freely moving rats. This effect appears to be mediated by a K(ATP) channel-dependent mechanism and mimicked by endogenous H2S.
Substance P evokes a long-term increase in the frequency of the lamprey locomotor network output. Although previous physiological experiments using protein synthesis inhibitors suggested separate transcription-independent and -dependent phases in the long-term network modulation, this conclusion was weakened by the non-specific effects associated with these inhibitors. We thus sought further evidence for substance P effects on gene expression here using differential display polymerase chain reaction. We found evidence for changes in gene expression in the potential transcription-independent and dependent phases. We sequenced the mRNAs that we detected, and found that one of the mRNAs shared homology with a portion of the lamprey fibrinogen alpha-2 chain. As fibrinogen is a component of the extracellular matrix, the change in fibrinogen gene expression suggested the potential involvement of structural changes in the effects of substance P. We have previously shown that the network effects of substance P are associated with a reduction of the synaptic gap at glutamatergic synapses. To determine if this ultrastructural change was related to potential fibrinogen-dependent effects we examined the effects of arginine-glycine-aspartate (RGD) peptides, which block integrin binding to fibrinogen. Electron microscope analyses showed that RGD peptides blocked the substance P-mediated reduction in the synaptic gap. In addition, physiological experiments suggested that RGD peptides blocked the maintenance of the long-term increase in the network burst frequency. These results thus support the involvement of changes in gene expression in the long-term network effects of substance P, and suggest the involvement of integrin-mediated changes in synaptic ultrastructure.
Many mechanisms of neurodegeneration have been implicated in Parkinson's disease, but which ones are most important and potential interactions among them are unclear. To provide a broader perspective on the parkinsonian neurodegenerative process, we have performed a global analysis of gene expression changes caused by chronic, low-level exposure of neuroblastoma cells to the mitochondrial complex I inhibitor and parkinsonian neurotoxin rotenone. Undifferentiated SK-N-MC human neuroblastoma cells were grown in the presence of rotenone (5 nM), and RNA was extracted at three different time points (baseline, 1 week, and 4 weeks) for labeling and hybridization to Affymetrix Human U133 Plus 2.0 GeneChips. Our results show that rotenone induces concerted alterations in gene expression that change over time. Particularly, alterations in transcripts related to DNA damage, energy metabolism, and protein metabolism are prominent during chronic complex I inhibition. These data suggest that early augmentation of capacity for energy production in response to mitochondrial inhibition might be deleterious to cellular function and survival. These experiments provide the first transcriptional analysis of a rotenone model of Parkinson's disease and insight into which mechanisms of neurodegeneration may be targeted for therapeutic intervention.
Acetylcholinesterase (AChE) is shown to promote deposition of beta-amyloid (Abeta) peptides and to enhance Abeta toxicity. Tg2576 (transgenic mice carrying the Swedish mutation of amyloid precursor protein, APPswe) mice and mice overexpressing human synaptic acetylcholinesterase (AChE-S) were crossed (hAChE-Tg//APPswe), to study the effects of brain Abeta, from 1 to 10 months of age, under the constant influence of AChE-S. The effect of nicotine treatment was also evaluated in these mice since we have previously shown that nicotine dramatically decreases Abeta levels in single transgenic APPswe mice. Already at 1 and 3 months, hAChE-Tg// APPswe mice showed increased levels of cortical insoluble Abeta1-40 and Abeta1-42 compared with APPswe mice, whereas APPswe mice displayed increased soluble Abeta1-40. Abeta plaques were detected at 7 months, thus before onset of plaque formation in APPswe mice. No differences were found in [125I]alpha-bungarotoxin binding sites or hippocampal glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) immunoreactivity between hAChE-Tg//APPswe, and APPswe mice at either 1 or 10 months of age. L(-)-Nicotine (final dose 0.45 mg/kg) treatment twice daily for 10 days to 14-month-old hAChE-Tg// APPswe mice increased cortical insoluble Abeta1-40 levels, while both L(-)- and D(+)-nicotine (final dose 0.45 mg/kg) increased soluble Abeta1-42. L(-)-Nicotine reduced hippocampal GFAP immunoreactivity both in hAChE-Tg//APPswe mice and non-transgenic controls, while D(+)-nicotine caused a decrease only in hAChE-Tg//APPswe mice. Moreover, D(+)-nicotine increased the [125I]alpha-bungarotoxin binding sites in the hippocampus, and cortex of the hAChE-Tg//APPswe mice. In conclusion, already at a very young age, hAChE-Tg// APPswe mice exhibit increased levels of aggregated Abeta compared with APPswe mice, due to the possible interaction between Abeta and AChE-S, whereas APPswe mice exhibit increased soluble Abeta. The interaction between Abeta and AChE-S may also explain the different effect of nicotine on Abeta pathology in the hAChE-Tg//APPswe mice. The results in this study emphasize the importance of using different transgenic mouse models for evaluating the effect of new drug candidates for the treatment of Alzheimer's disease.
Pathological conditions, such as Parkinson's disease and attention deficit hyperactivity disorder, have been linked to alterations of specific dopamine (DA) pathways. However, since exogenous DA does not cross the blood-brain barrier, DA levels can be modulated e.g. by DA precursors or DA reuptake blockers. Hereby histochemical, analytical and behavioral evidence shows that a galactosylated form of DA (GAL-DA) carries DA into the brain, thus modulating activity and nonselective attention in rats. To this aim adult male rats of the Naples high-excitability (NHE) and random bred controls (NRB) lines were given a single i.p. injection of GAL-DA (10 or 100 mg/kg). Three hours later the behavior was videotaped and analyzed for horizontal activity, orienting frequency and scanning duration. The dose of 100 mglkg of GAL-DA reduced by 25% the horizontal activity in NHE rats, mainly in the first part of the testing period. No effect was observed on orienting frequency or on scanning duration. However, GAL-DA 100 mg/kg was associated with longer rearing episodes in the second part of the testing period in NHE rats. In parallel experiments histochemistry with a galactose-specific lectin showed 10% increase in galactose residues into the striatum between 0.5 and 3.0 h. To quantify the level of GAL-DA, its metabolite DA-succinate and DA in the prefrontal cortex, neostriatum, and cerebellum, rats were killed 2.0 h after the injection of prodrug. Mass high performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) was used for analysis of GAL-DA and DA succinate whereas electrochemical HPLC for DA. Both HPLC techniques demonstrate that GAL-DA carries and releases DA into the brain. Specifically 100 mg/kg of GAL-DA increased DA level in the striatum in the NHE rats only. Moreover, DA in the mesencephalon (MES) was correlated positively with striatal and prefrontal cortex DA in NHE rats. In contrast DA in the MES was negatively correlated with striatal DA in NRB. GAL-DA disrupted these correlations in both rat lines. Thus, this new DA prodrug may modify DA neurotransmission and might have a potential clinical application.
Pontine noradrenergic neurons of the locus coeruleus (LC) and sub-coeruleus (SubC) region cease firing during rapid eye movement sleep (REMS). This plays a permissive role in the generation of REMS and may contribute to state-dependent modulation of transmission in the CNS. Whether all pontomedullary catecholaminergic neurons, including those in the A1/C1, A2/C2 and A7 groups, have REMS-related suppression of activity has not been tested. We used Fos protein expression as an indirect marker of the level of neuronal activity and linear regression analysis to determine whether pontomedullary cells identified by tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) immunohistochemistry have reduced Fos expression following REMS-like state induced by pontine microinjections of a cholinergic agonist, carbachol in urethane-anesthetized rats. The percentage of Fos-positive TH cells was negatively correlated with the cumulative duration of REMS-like episodes induced during 140 min prior to brain harvesting in the A7 and rostral A5 groups bilaterally (P &lt; 0.01 for both), and in SubC neurons on the side opposite to carbachol injection (P &lt; 0.05). Dorsal medullary A2/C2 neurons did not exhibit such correlation, but their Fos expression (and that in A7, rostral A5 and SubC neurons) was positively correlated with the duration of the interval between the last REMS-like episode and the time of perfusion (P &lt; 0.05). In contrast, neither of these correlations was significant for A1 /C1 or caudal A5 neurons. These findings suggest that, similar to the prototypic LC neurons, neurons of the A7, rostral A5 and A2/C2 groups have reduced or abolished activity during REMS, whereas A1 /IC1 and caudal A5 neurons do not have this feature. The reduced activity of A2/C2, A5 and A7 neurons during REMS, and the associated decrements in norepinephrine release, may cause state-dependent modulation of.transmission in brain somato- and viscerosensory, somatomotor, and cardiorespiratory pathways.
Infection and inflammation strongly inhibit a variety of behaviors, including exploration, social interaction, and food intake. The mechanisms that underlie sickness behavior remain elusive, but appear to involve fatigue and a state of hypo-arousal. Because histaminergic neurons in the ventral tuberomammillary nucleus of the hypothalamus (VTM) play a crucial role in the mediation of alertness and behavioral arousal, we investigated whether the histaminergic system represents a target for immune activation and, if so, whether modulation by ascending medullary immune-sensitive projections represents a possible mechanism. Rats were injected intraperitoneally with either the pro-inflammatory stimulus lipopolysaccharide (LPS) or saline, and exposed to one of various behavioral tests that would induce motivated behavior (exploration, play behavior, social interaction, sweetened milk consumption). Upon kill, brains were processed for c-Fos and histidine decarboxylase immunoreactivity. LPS treatment reduced behavioral activity and blocked behavioral test-associated c-Fos induction in histaminergic neurons of the VTM. These effects of LPS were prevented by prior inactivation of the caudal medullary dorsal vagal complex (DVC) with a local anesthetic. To determine whether LPS-responsive brainstem projection neurons might provide a link from the DVC to the VTM, the tracer Fluorogold was iontophoresed into the VTM a week prior to experiment. Retrogradely labeled neurons that expressed c-Fos in response to LPS treatment included catecholaminergic neurons within the nucleus of the solitary tract and ventrolateral medulla. These findings support the hypothesis that the histaminergic system represents an important component in the neurocircuitry relevant for sickness behavior that is linked to ascending pathways originating in the lower brainstem.
Rearing rats in isolation has been shown to produce behavioral and neurochemical alterations similar to those observed in psychoses such as schizophrenia. Also, a dysregulation in both the endocannabinoid and dopaminergic systems has been implicated in schizophrenia. The aim of this study was to determine if there are differences in CB1 receptor and fatty acid amide hydrolase (FAAH) protein expression, as well as D2 dopamine receptor expression in different brain regions in rats reared in different environmental conditions. Twenty-one-day-old male Sprague-Dawley rats were either reared in individual cages (isolated rats) or in group cages of six per cage (group-housed rats) for 8 weeks. Quantitative fluorescence immunohistochemistry was performed on brain slices using antibodies specific to the CB1 or D2 receptor, or the enzyme FAAH. Raising rats in isolation led to a significant decrease in CB1 receptor expression in the caudate putamen and the amygdala, a significant increase in FAAH expression in the caudate putamen and the nucleus accumbens core and shell, and no significant change in D2 receptor expression in any region studied. These results indicate that the endocannabinoid system is altered in an animal model of aspects of psychosis. This implies that rearing rats under different housing conditions may provide new insight into the role of the endocannabinoid system in the development of psychoses.
The lateral nucleus of the amygdala (LA) receives axonal projections from the auditory thalamus, the medial geniculate nucleus (MGN), and mediates auditory fear conditioning. Tetanic electrical stimulation of the MGN can induce long-term potentiation of acoustically-evoked responses (AEPs) recorded in the LA of anesthetized rats. The present study investigated the temporal development of tetanus-induced AEP potentiation recorded in the LA of anesthetized rats during the recording time up to 120 min after tetanization. In addition, the present study investigated whether the artificially-induced AEP potentiation is mediated by the metabotropic glutamate receptors subtype 5 (mGluR5). The results show that AEPs recorded in the LA to a broadband-noise burst were significantly enhanced immediately after tetanic but not low-frequency stimulation of the MGN. The AEP potentiation was well retained up to 120 min after tetanization. High-dose (1.5 microg/4 microl) microinjection of the selective antagonist of mGluR5, 2-methyl-6-(phenylethynyl)-pyridine (MPEP), into the ipsilateral lateral ventricle 30 min before tetanization completely blocked the AEP potentiation without affecting the baseline AEP. Low-dose (0.5 microg/4 microl) microinjection partially suppressed the AEP potentiation. When the high-dose MPEP was injected 40 min after tetanization, the AEP potentiation was not affected. These results indicate that in anesthetized rats mGluR5 receptors are necessary for the induction or early maintenance (40 min) of AEP potentiation in the LA by tetanic stimulation of the MGN.
5-HT and agonists of the 5-HT receptor can modify the response of the mammalian pacemaker, which is located in the hypothalamic suprachiasmatic nuclei (SCN), to photic and nonphotic stimulation. Previous studies suggest that the 5-HT7 receptor is involved in the regulation of photic input, and the modulation of nonphotic circadian resetting of the circadian clock. The present study investigated the role of the 5-HT7 receptor by evaluating a wide variety of circadian parameters in mice lacking a functional allele for this receptor (5-HT7 knockout (KO)) compared with wild type (WT) animals that were bred on the same genetic background, including rate of entrainment, photic responsiveness and nonphotic response to a serotonergic agonist. No significant differences were detected in the average number of days 5-HT7 KO mice needed to reach entrainment to an advance of 6 h in the LD cycle compared with WT animals. Further, we investigated the acute responsiveness of both groups of mice to acute light stimulation at various times (circadian time (CT) 0, 6, 9, 12, 14, 16, 18, 20 and 22). A significant difference in the phase resetting response to light between the groups was revealed at CT22. Finally, as the 5-HT7 receptor has been associated with the modulation of nonphotic resetting in vitro, we examined the response of the 5-HT7 KO mice to systemic administration of a 5-HT(1A/7) agonist. The current study is the first to demonstrate the elimination of a nonphotic response to (+) 8-hydroxy-2-(di-n-propylamino) tetralin (8-OH-DPAT) in mice lacking the 5-HT7 receptor compared with WT animals in vivo. Taken together, the present findings provide additional evidence that reform the established view on the role of the 5-HT7 in the photic regulation of retinohypothalamic (RHT) input, and support further the involvement of the 5-HT7 receptor in the modulation of nonphotic resetting in circadian clock.



We describe a case with right hemiparkinsonism due to a frontal meningioma with surrounding edema compressing the basal ganglia. The initial diagnosis of idiopathic Parkinson's disease (PD) was made in another institution on the basis of the positive family history, the clinical symptoms and the asymmetric reduction of striatal tracer binding in a single photon emission computed tomography study for the dopamine transporter. The symptoms of parkinsonism resolved completely shortly after surgery for removal of the tumor. This case points to the significance of structural neuroimaging in the evaluation of parkinsonism even in cases that fulfill all the necessary clinical criteria for idiopathic PD.

The role of heterotopic (migratory) motoneurons (HMN) in the pathogenesis of spinal muscular atrophy (SMA) is still controversial. We examined the occurrence and amount of HMN in spinal cord tissue from eight children with SMA (six with SMA-I and two with SMA-II). All affected subjects were carrying a homozygous deletion of exon 7 in the SMN1 gene. Unlike controls, virtually free from HMN, all SMA subjects showed a significant number of HMN at all levels of the spinal cord. Heterotopic neurons were hyperchromatic, located mostly in the ventral white matter and had no axon or dendrites. More than half of the HMN were very undifferentiated, as judged from their lack of immunoreactivity for NeuN and MAP2 proteins. Small numbers of more differentiated heterotopic neurons were also found in the dorsal and lateral white matter region. As confirmed by ultrastructural analysis, in situ end labeling (ISEL) and CD68 immunoreactivity, HMN in the ventral outflow were found to have no synapses, to activate microglial cells, and to eventually die by necrosis. An unbiased quantitative analysis showed a significant negative correlation between age of SMA subjects (a reflection of the clinical severity) and the number of HMN. Subjects who died at older ages had increased number of GFAP-positive astrocytes. Complementing our previous report on motoneuron apoptosis within the ventral horns in SMA, we now propose that abnormal migration, differentiation, and lack of axonal outgrowth may induce motoneuron apoptosis predominantly during early stages, whereas a slower necrosis-like cell death of displaced motoneurons which &quot;escaped&quot; apoptosis characterizes later stages of SMA.
OPRL1 encodes the nociceptin receptor, which has been shown to be involved in alcohol dependence in previous studies. In the present study, we investigated the association between genetic polymorphisms of OPRL1 and alcohol dependence in a Scandinavian population. We genotyped 15 single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) spanning the OPRL1 locus and found that SNP rs6010718 was significantly associated with both Type I and Type II alcoholics (P &lt; 0.05). Linkage disequilibrium and haplotype analysis identified two haplotype blocks in this region. Furthermore, two haplotypes composed of five tag SNPs showed significant association with alcohol dependence. These findings suggest that genetic variants of the OPRL1 gene play a role in alcohol dependence in the Scandinavian population, warranting further investigation at the OPRL1 locus.
The aim of this study was to observe the effect of electroacupuncture (EA) on chronic morphine-induced neuronal morphological changes in the ventral tegmental area (VTA) in rats at electron-microscopic level. Fourteen days of administering escalating doses of morphine induced pathological morphological changes of neurons in the VTA: the rough endoplasmic reticulum swelled, membrane configuration of the nucleus and mitochondria blurred, and structure of myelin sheath changed. Both 2 and 100 Hz EA treatment reversed the morphological alterations induced by chronic morphine administration. The findings provide new evidence that EA may serve as a potential therapy in treating opiate addiction.
Chronic exposure to morphine can impair performance in tasks which need sensory processing. Using single unit recordings we investigate the effect of chronic morphine exposure on the firing properties of neurons in layers IV and V of the whisker-related area of rat primary somatosensory cortex. In urethane-anesthetized animals, neuronal activity was recorded in response to principal and adjacent whisker deflections either stimulated independently or in a conditioning test paradigm. A condition test ratio (CTR) was calculated for assessing the inhibitory receptive field. In layer IV, chronic morphine treatment did not change the spontaneous discharge activity. On responses to principal and adjacent whisker deflections did not show any significant changes following chronic morphine exposure. The magnitude Off responses to adjacent whisker deflection decreased while its response latency increased. In addition, there was a significant increase in the latency of Off responses to principal whisker deflection. CTR did not change significantly following morphine exposure. Layer V neurons, on the other hand, did not show any significant changes in their spontaneous activity or their evoked responses following morphine exposure. Our results suggest that chronic morphine exposure has a subtle modulatory effect on response properties of neurons in barrel cortex.
Native Americans have some of the highest rates of marijuana use and abuse, yet neurobiological measures associated with addiction to marijuana in this population remain unknown. The present investigation evaluated associations between the P350 and P450 components of the event-related potential (ERP) elicited by affective stimuli, and marijuana dependence in a population of Southwest California (SWC) Indian adults. Three hundred and seventeen participants with a mean age of 30 years who were free of major Axis I and psychiatric diagnoses and antisocial personality disorder were categorized as: (1) no marijuana use disorders or other drug dependence diagnoses; (2) marijuana dependence and no other drug dependence diagnoses; and (3) marijuana dependence and other drug dependence diagnoses. ERPs were collected using a facial discrimination task that generated a late positive component with two peaks at approximately P350 and P450 milliseconds. Multivariate analyses of variance was used to detect associations between the two component peaks and the three participant groups taking into consideration age, gender and the presence of a lifetime diagnosis of alcohol dependence. Increases in the latency of both the P350 and P450 component peaks were found to be associated with the diagnosis of marijuana dependence and marijuana dependence co-morbid with other drug dependence. Women appeared to be more impacted than men are. A diagnosis of marijuana dependence was not associated with any changes in late component amplitudes. Taken together these studies suggest that marijuana dependence may be associated with delays in the evaluation and identification of emotional stimuli in SWC Indians.
Genetic and environmental influences are both known to be causal factors in the development and maintenance of substance abuse disorders. This review aims to focus on the contributions of genetic and environmental research to the understanding of alcoholism and how gene-environment interactions result in a variety of addiction phenotypes. Gene-environment interactions have been reviewed by focusing on one of the most relevant environmental risk factors for alcoholism, stress. This is examined in more detail by reviewing the functioning of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis and its genetic and molecular components in this disorder. Recent evidence from animal and human studies have shown that the effects of stress on alcohol drinking are mediated by core HPA axis genes and are associated with genetic variations in those genes. The findings of the studies discussed here suggest that the collaborations of neuroscience, psychobiology and molecular genetics provide a promising framework to elucidate the exact mechanisms of gene-environment interactions as seen to convene upon the HPA axis and effect phenotypes of addiction.
We determined changes in mRNA expression in specific enzymes involved in the biosynthesis of morphine in human white blood cells via microarray. Leukocyte exposure to morphine down-regulated catechol-O-methyl transferase (COMT) and CYP2D6 by approximately 50% compared with control values. The treatment did not alter DOPA decarboxylase and dopamine beta-hydroxylase expression, demonstrating the specificity of morphine actions. The verification of the microarray data was accomplished via real-time Taqman reverse transcriptase polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) focused on CYP2D6 and COMT expression in different blood samples treated with morphine. The analysis showed similar changes in the expression of CYP2D6 and COMT mRNA. The expression was reduced by 47 +/- 7% for CYP2D6, substantiating the microarray finding of a 54% reduction. Furthermore, exposure of white blood cells to 10(-6) M S-nitroso-N-acetyl-DL-penicillamine (SNAP), a nitric oxide (NO) donor, reduced the expression of CYP2D6 and COMT. Prior naloxone (10(-6) M) or N-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester (L-NAME) (10(-4) M) addition abrogated morphine's down-regulating activity, demonstrating morphine was initiating its actions via stimulating constitutive NO synthase derived NO release via the mu3 opiate receptor splice variant. In the past we demonstrated that UDP-glucurosyltransferase is involved in metabolizing morphine to morphine 6-glucuronide in adrenal chromaffin cells. In the present study its expression was not found in controls and morphine-treated cells, suggesting that morphine 6-glucuronide may not be synthesized in white blood cells. Taken together, it appears that morphine has the ability to modulate its own synthesis via autocrine and paracrine signaling.
Cellular ageing is associated with accumulation of undegradable intralysosomal material, called lipofuscin. In order to accelerate the lipofuscin accumulation, confluent, growth-arrested human fibroblasts were cultured under hyperoxic conditions. To provide a better insight into the effects of lipofuscin on cellular functions, we compared lysosomal stability in control and lipofuscin-loaded human fibroblasts under conditions of lysosome-targeted stress induced by exposure to either the lysosomotropic detergent MSDH or the redox-cycling quinone naphthazarin. We show that lysosomal damage, assessed by acridine-orange relocation, translocation of cathepsin D to the cytosol, and alkalinization of lysosomes, is more pronounced in control than in lipofuscin-loaded fibroblasts. Finding that lysosomal integrity was less affected or even preserved in case of lipofuscin-loaded cells enables us to suggest that lipofuscin exerts lysosome-stabilizing properties.
Depression is typically considered relative to individuals and thought to originate from both biological and environmental factors. However, the environmental constraints and insults that African Americans experience likely influence the concordance by age and gender for depression scores among adult African American twins. Monozygotic (MZ) (n = 102) and Dizygotic (DZ) (n = 110) twins, age 25-88 years in the Carolina African American Twin Study of Aging were examined using an 11-item version of the CES-D measure of depressive symptomatology. Those participants with scores above nine were considered depressed. Overall, the MZ pairs had a higher concordance than the DZ pairs implying genetic influence. Both MZ and DZ males had higher concordances than either female zygosity groups. The difference between the concordance rates for MZ and DZ twin pairs was greater in males than females. By age group, the difference between the concordance rates for younger MZ and DZ twin pairs was much larger than for older pairs. The results suggest that, even though African Americans may be at risk for depression due to contextual/environmental factors, genetic influences remain important.
Many healthy individuals perceive themselves as forgetful and are interested in interventions to decrease their worries and increase their memory functioning. Educational interventions can be more effective when determinants are targeted that are known to predict perceived forgetfulness. In the present study, first, a broad range of determinants was selected from the literature and from experiences in clinical settings and, second, the most important determinants among the selected ones were identified with multivariate regression analyses. The study had a cross-sectional design. A sample of 300 healthy participants aged over 54 years filled in a self-report questionnaire. Findings indicated that low memory self-efficacy, high memory-related anxiety, negative attitude and high subjective norm (e.g. anticipating negative evaluations by important others) were the most important correlates of perceived forgetfulness. It is argued that future interventions should focus on the specified determinants to improve programme effectiveness in reducing subjective memory complaints.
Monocytes and macrophages play a prominent role in the establishment of HIV-1 infection, virus dissemination, and development of viral reservoirs. Like T cells, macrophages display immune polarization that can promote or impair adaptive immunity. We hypothesize that dysregulation of monocyte/macrophage activation and differentiation may promote immune dysfunction and contribute to AIDS pathogenesis. Using flow cytometry, we analyzed the frequency of monocyte subsets in human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1) infection relative to seronegative controls, focusing on the CD163(+)/CD16(+) monocyte as a likely precursor of the &quot;alternatively activated&quot; macrophage. Individuals with detectable HIV-1 infection showed an increase in the frequency of CD163(+)/CD16(+) monocytes (CD14(+)) when compared to seronegative or HIV-1-infected persons with undetectable viral loads. A positive correlation between increased CD163(+)/CD16(+) monocyte frequency and viral load was revealed that was not seen between viral load and the number of CD4(+) T cells or frequency of CD16(+) monocytes (without CD163 subtyping). We also found a strong inverse correlations between CD16(+) monocytes (r = -0.71, r(2) = 0.5041, p = 0.0097) or CD163(+)/CD16(+) monocytes (r = -0.86, r(2) = 0.7396, p = 0.0003) and number of CD4(+) T cells below 450 cells/microl. An inverse relationship between CD163(+)/CD16(+) and CD163(+)/CD16() monocytes suggests the expanded CD163(+)/CD16(+) population is derived exclusively from within the &quot;alternatively activated&quot; (MPhi-2) subset. These data suggest a potential role for CD163(+)/CD16(+) monocytes in virus production and disease progression. CD163(+)/CD16(+) monocytes may be a useful biomarker for HIV-1 infection and AIDS progression and a possible target for therapeutic intervention.



Most drugs of abuse cause a locomotor stimulation, an effect, at least in part, mediated by increased accumbal dopamine (DA) overflow. Locomotor stimulation has been suggested to be a putative endophenotype for drug addiction. We therefore investigated the effects of aripiprazole, a partial DA D2-receptor agonist, on ethanol as well as amphetamine-induced locomotor stimulation. In the present series of experiments, we found that aripiprazole (1.25 mg/kg, intraperitoneally [i.p.]) antagonized ethanol (1.75 g/kg, i.p.) as well as amphetamine (2 mg/kg, i.p.)induced locomotor stimulation in mice. We suggest that this effect might be related to aripiprazole's ability to alleviate drug-induced hyperdopaminergia without causing hypodopaminergia. Given that altered DA functions in drug dependence have been observed, it may be suggested that aripiprazole could be a new treatment strategy for treatment of drug dependence.
gamma-Hydroxybutyric acid (GHB) reduces alcohol drinking, promotes abstinence from alcohol, suppresses craving for alcohol, and ameliorates alcohol withdrawal syndrome in alcoholics. At preclinical level, GHB suppresses alcohol withdrawal signs and alcohol intake in rats. The present study was designed to investigate whether GHB administration was capable of affecting alcohol's motivational properties (the possible animal correlate of human craving for alcohol) in selectively bred Sardinian alcohol-preferring rats. To this aim, rats were initially trained to lever press for alcohol (15%, vol/vol) under a procedure of operant, oral alcohol self-administration (fixed ratio 4 in 30-min daily sessions). Once responding for alcohol had stabilized, rats were divided into two groups and allocated to two independent experiments. Experiment 1 assessed the effect of GHB (0, 25, 50, and 100mg/kg, i.p.) on breakpoint for alcohol, defined as the lowest response requirement not achieved by each rat when exposed to a single-session progressive ratio schedule of reinforcement. Experiment 2 assessed the effect of GHB (0, 25, 50, and 100mg/kg, i.p.) on single-session extinction responding for alcohol (alcohol was absent and unreinforced responding was recorded). Breakpoint and extinction responding for alcohol are reliable indexes of alcohol's motivational strength. In Experiment 1, all doses of GHB reduced--by approximately 20% in comparison to saline-treated rats--breakpoint for alcohol. In Experiment 2, administration of 25, 50, and 100mg/kg GHB reduced--by approximately 25%, 40%, and 50%, respectively, in comparison to saline-treated rats--extinction responding for alcohol. Conversely, no dose of GHB altered breakpoint and extinction responding for sucrose (3%, wt/vol) in two independent subsets of Sardinian alcohol-preferring rats. Together, these data suggest that GHB administration specifically suppressed alcohol's motivational properties in Sardinian alcohol-preferring rats. These results are consistent with the anticraving properties of GHB observed in clinical studies.
The purpose of this study was to test the hypothesis that blockade of alpha1-adrenergic receptors may suppress the excessive ethanol consumption associated with acute withdrawal in ethanol-dependent rats. Following the acquisition and stabilization of operant ethanol self-administration in male Wistar rats, dependence was induced in half the animals by subjecting them to a 4-week intermittent vapor exposure period in which animals were exposed to ethanol vapor for 14h/day. Subsequent to dependence induction, the effect of alpha1-noradrenergic receptor antagonist prazosin (0.0, 0.25, 0.5, 1, 1.5, and 2.0mg/kg IP) was tested on operant responding for ethanol in vapor-exposed and control rats during acute withdrawal. In ethanol-dependent animals, prazosin significantly suppressed responding at the 1.5 and 2.0mg/kg doses, whereas only the 2.0mg/kg dose was effective in nondependent animals, identifying an increase in the sensitivity to prazosin in dependent animals. Conversely, at the lowest dose tested (0.25mg/kg), prazosin increased responding in nondependent animals, which is consistent with the effect of anxiolytics on ethanol self-administration in nondependent animals. None of the doses tested reliably affected concurrent water self-administration. These results suggest the involvement of the noradrenergic system in the excessive alcohol drinking seen during acute withdrawal in ethanol-dependent rats.
In adolescence, high levels of drinking over short episodes (binge drinking) is commonly seen in a proportion of the population. Because adolescence is an important neurodevelopmental period, the effects of binge drinking on brain and behavior has become a significant health concern. However, robust animal models of binge drinking in rats are still being developed and therefore further efforts are needed to optimize paradigms for inducing maximal self-administration of alcohol. In the present experiment, 1-h limited-access self-administration sessions were instituted to model excessive drinking behavior in adolescent and adult Wistar rats. In addition to age, the involvement of sex and phase within the light/dark cycle (i.e., drinking in the light or dark) on sweetened 5% ethanol intake were also evaluated over 14 limited-access sessions using a between-groups design. The results of the experiment showed that over 14 limited-access sessions, sweetened ethanol intake (g/kg) was significantly higher for adolescents compared to adults. Females were also found to drink more sweetened ethanol as compared to males. Additionally, drinking in the light produced a robust increase in sweetened ethanol intake (g/kg) in adolescents, as compared to adults during the light phase and as compared to both adolescent and adult rats drinking in the dark. Furthermore, the increase in ethanol consumption observed in adolescents drinking during the light phase was dissociable from sweetened solution intake patterns. These results identify that age, sex, and time of day all significantly influence consumption of sweetened ethanol in Wistar rats. Knowledge of these parameters should be useful for future experiments attempting to evaluate the effects of self-administered ethanol exposure in adult and adolescent rats.


Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a chronic, progressive, neurodegenerative disorder that places a substantial burden on patients, their families, and society. The disease affects approximately 5 million individuals in the United States, with an annual cost of care greater than $100 billion. During the past dozen years, several agents have been approved that enhance cognition and global function of AD patients, and recent advances in understanding AD pathogenesis has led to the development of numerous compounds that might modify the disease process. A wide array of antiamyloid and neuroprotective therapeutic approaches are under investigation on the basis of the hypothesis that amyloid beta (A beta) protein plays a pivotal role in disease onset and progression and that secondary consequences of A beta generation and deposition, including tau hyperphosphorylation and neurofibrillary tangle formation, oxidation, inflammation, and excitotoxicity, contribute to the disease process. Interventions in these processes with agents that reduce amyloid production, limit aggregation, or increase removal might block the cascade of events comprising AD pathogenesis. Reducing tau hyperphosphorylation, limiting oxidation and excitotoxicity, and controlling inflammation might be beneficial disease-modifying strategies. Potentially neuroprotective and restorative treatments such as neurotrophins, neurotrophic factor enhancers, and stem cell-related approaches are also under investigation.
Data from Asian populations on dietary and lifestyle factors associated with Parkinson's disease are sparse. In 1993-2005, the authors examined these factors in relation to Parkinson's disease in the Singapore Chinese Health Study, a prospective cohort of 63,257 Chinese men and women. Baseline data were collected through in-person interviews using structured questionnaires. All 157 incident Parkinson's disease cases were identified either through follow-up interviews or via linkage with hospital discharge databases and Parkinson's disease outpatient registries and were confirmed by review of medical records. Current versus never smokers exhibited a reduced risk of Parkinson's disease (relative risk = 0.29, 95% confidence interval: 0.16, 0.52). Total caffeine intake was inversely related to Parkinson's disease risk (p for trend = 0.002); the relative risk for the highest versus lowest quartile was 0.55 (95% confidence interval: 0.35, 0.88). Black tea, a caffeine-containing beverage, showed an inverse association with Parkinson's disease risk that was not confounded by total caffeine intake or tobacco smoking (p for trend = 0.0006; adjusted relative risk for the highest vs. lowest tertile of intake = 0.29, 95% confidence interval: 0.13, 0.67). Green tea drinking was unrelated to Parkinson's disease risk. Diet had no strong influence on risk. Ingredients of black tea other than caffeine appear to be responsible for the beverage's inverse association with Parkinson's disease.
Polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS) is a common endocrine and metabolic disturbance among women of reproductive age and is proposed to be linked with size at birth and increased prevalence of cardiovascular disease. A disturbance in the sympathetic nervous system may contribute to the etiology of PCOS. This study evaluates sympathetic outflow in PCOS and its relation to size at birth. Directly recorded sympathetic nerve activity to the muscle vascular bed (MSNA) was obtained in 20 women with PCOS and in 18 matched controls. Ovarian ultrasonographic evaluation, biometric, hormonal, and biochemical parameters were measured, and birth data were collected. Women with PCOS had increased MSNA (30 +/- 8 vs. 20 +/- 7 burst frequency, P &lt; 0.0005) compared with controls. MSNA was positively related to testosterone (r = 0.63, P &lt; 0.005) and cholesterol (r = 0.55, P = 0.01) levels in PCOS, which, in turn, were not related to each other. Testosterone level was a stronger predictor of MSNA than cholesterol. Birth size did not differ between the study groups. This is the first study to directly address sympathetic nerve activity in women with PCOS and shows that PCOS is associated with high MSNA. Testosterone and cholesterol levels are identified as independent predictors of MSNA in PCOS, although testosterone has a stronger impact. The increased MSNA in PCOS may contribute to the increased cardiovascular risk and etiology of the condition. In this study, PCOS was not related to size at birth.
Experimental evidence suggests that glucose modulates gastric functions via vagally mediated effects. It is unclear whether glucose affects only peripheral vagal nerve activity or whether glucose also modulates vagal circuitry at the level of the brain stem. This study used whole cell patch-clamp recordings from neurons of the nucleus of the tractus solitarius (NTS) to assess whether acute variations in glucose modulates vagal brain stem neurocircuitry. Increasing D-glucose concentration induced a postsynaptic response in 40% of neurons; neither the response type (inward vs. outward current) nor response magnitude was altered in the presence of tetrodotoxin suggesting direct effects on the NTS neuronal membrane. In contrast, reducing d-glucose concentration induced a postsynaptic response (inward or outward current) in 54% of NTS neurons; tetrodotoxin abolished these responses, suggesting indirect sites of action. The frequency, but not amplitude, of spontaneous and miniature excitatory postsynaptic currents (EPSCs) was correlated with d-glucose concentration in 79% of neurons tested (n = 48). Prior surgical afferent rhizotomy abolished the ability of D-glucose to modulate spontaneous EPSC frequency, suggesting presynaptic actions at vagal afferent nerve terminals to modulate glutamatergic synaptic transmission. In experiments in which EPSCs were evoked via electrical stimulation of the tractus solitarius, EPSC amplitude correlated with D-glucose concentration. These effects were not mimicked by L-glucose, suggesting the involvement of glucose metabolism, not uptake, in the nerve terminal. These data suggest that the synaptic connections between vagal afferent nerve terminals and NTS neurons are a strong candidate for consideration as one of the sites where glucose-evoked changes in vagovagal reflexes occurs.
Quantitative analysis of innervation to dorsal motor nucleus of the vagus (DMV) fundus-projecting neurons indicates that approximately 17% of input neurons are noradrenergic. To determine whether this small percentage of neurons innervating DMV output to the stomach is physiologically relevant, we evaluated the role of norepinephrine at the DMV in mediating a vagovagal reflex controlling the fundus. A strain gauge was sutured onto the fundus of isoflurane-anesthetized rats to monitor changes in tone evoked by esophageal distension (ED). ED produced a decrease in fundus tone of 0.31 +/- 0.02 g (P &lt; 0.05), which could be reproduced after a 30-min interval between distensions. Bilateral cervical vagotomy and/or pretreatment with intravenous atropine methylbromide prevented the reflex-induced fundus relaxation. In contrast, intravenous N(G)-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester had no effect. Bilateral microinjection of alpha2-adrenoreceptor antagonists (yohimbine and RS-79948) into the DMV also prevented the response. Before microinjection of alpha2-adrenoreceptor antagonists, ED decreased fundus tone by 0.33 +/- 0.05 g (P &lt; 0.05). After antagonist microinjection, ED decreased fundus tone by only 0.05 +/- 0.06 g (P &gt; 0.05). Bilateral microinjection of prazosin into the DMV had no effect on the response. Microinjection of norepinephrine into the DMV mimicked the effect of ED and was also prevented by prior microinjection of an alpha2-adrenoreceptor antagonist. Our results indicate that noradrenergic innervation of DMV fundus-projecting neurons is physiologically important and suggest that norepinephrine released at the DMV acts on alpha2-adrenoreceptors to inhibit activity in a cholinergic-cholinergic excitatory pathway to the fundus.
The reversal of obesity is a difficult feat at best and is a growing problem as the obesity epidemic increases worldwide. Considerable focus has been made on the arcuate nucleus (Arc) in the control of body and lipid mass and food intake. To test the role of the Arc in body fat mobilization, we compared the effects of food deprivation on white adipose tissue (WAT) mass in adult Siberian hamsters by making exocytotic lesions of the Arc via neonatal subcutaneous injections of monosodium glutamate (MSG). MSG-treated hamsters had significantly increased body mass, total and individual WAT pad masses, and serum leptin concentrations compared with their vehicle-injected counterparts. MSG produced marked reductions in Arc Nissl staining, tyrosine hydroxylase-immunoreactive (ir) neurons, and neuropeptide Y (NPY)- and agouti-related protein (AgRP)-ir fibers compared with controls. MSG significantly decreased hypothalamic paraventricular nucleus (PVN) NPY- and AgRP fiber-ir compared with controls, likely because of Arc projections to this nucleus. MSG treatment also reduced area postrema (AP) tyrosine hydroxylase (TH)-ir fibers compared with controls. MSG treatment did not, however, block food deprivation-induced decreases in WAT pad mass compared with controls. Thus, despite considerable damage to the Arc and some of its projections to the PVN, as well as the AP, body fat was mobilized apparently normally, bringing into question the necessity of these structures for food deprivation-induced lipid mobilization. These data support recent evidence that chronically decerebrate rats, in which the forebrain is surgically isolated from the caudal brainstem, show normal food deprivation responses, including lipid mobilization.
Antecedent insulin-induced hypoglycemia (IIH) reduces adrenomedullary responses (AMR) to subsequent bouts of hypoglycemia. The ventromedial hypothalamus [VMH: arcuate (ARC) + ventromedial nuclei] contains glucosensing neurons, which are thought to be mediators of these AMR. Since type 1 diabetes mellitus often begins in childhood, we used juvenile (4- to 5-wk-old) rats to demonstrate that a single bout of IIH (5 U/kg sc) reduced plasma glucose by 24% and peak epinephrine by 59% 1 day later. This dampened AMR was associated with 46% higher mRNA for VMH glucokinase, a key mediator of neuronal glucosensing. Compared with neurons from saline-injected rats, ventromedial nucleus glucose-excited neurons from insulin-injected rats demonstrated a leftward shift in their glucose responsiveness (EC50 = 0.45 and 0.10 mmol/l for saline and insulin, respectively, P = 0.05) and a 31% higher maximal activation by glucose (P = 0.05), although this maximum occurred at a higher glucose concentration (saline, 0.7 vs. insulin, 1.5 mmol/l). Although EC50 values did not differ, ARC glucose-excited neurons had 19% higher maximal activation, which occurred at a lower glucose concentration in insulin- than saline-injected rats (saline, 2.5 vs. insulin, 1.5 mmol/l). In addition, ARC glucose-inhibited neurons from insulin-injected rats were maximally inhibited at a fivefold lower glucose concentration (saline, 2.5 vs. insulin, 0.5 mmol/l), although this inhibition declined at &gt;0.5 mmol/l glucose. These data suggest that the increased VMH glucokinase after IIH may contribute to the increased responsiveness of VMH glucosensing neurons to glucose and the associated blunting of the AMR.
Limited data are available on hemispheric lateralization in wild orang-utans. There has been only one previous investigation of limb preferences in wild orang-utans [Yeager, 1991]. We examined the lateralization of limb use in wild Bornean orang-utans (Pongo pygmaeus pygmaeus) with the aim of providing more insight into possible hemispheric specialization in wild nonhuman primates. Here, we report in detail on limb use and preference during arboreal locomotion between trees (N=6) and on feeding involving one limb (N=8) and two limbs (N=6). We distinguished between locomotion between overlapping trees (Type I) and locomotion involving gap crossing (Types II and III). For locomotion Type I, the six orang-utans showed no leading hand preference, however for locomotion Types II and III, all six showed significant right-hand preferences. All eight orang-utans showed individual hand preferences for reaching for food, but no significant group bias was found. Limb preferences for feeding involving two limbs (hand-hand or hand-foot) differed between juveniles (right hand-right foot), adult females (left hand-right hand) and adult males (right hand-left hand). Although not present for all tasks, the results indicate that orang-utans do show evidence of hemispheric specialization, but the use of the hands is not under a strong lateralized hemispheric control and is adaptable.
The structure and development of the brain are extremely difficult to study in free-ranging marine mammals. Here, we report measurements of total white matter (WM), total gray matter (GM), cerebellum (WM and GM), hippocampus, and corpus callosum made from magnetic resonance (MR) images of fresh, postmortem brains of the Atlantic white-sided dolphin (Lagenorhynchus acutus) imaged in situ (i.e., the brain intact within the skull, with the head still attached to the body). WM:GM volume ratios of the entire brain increased from fetus to adult, illustrating the increase in myelination during ontogeny. The cerebellum (WM and GM combined) of subadult and adult dolphins ranged from 13.8 to 15.0% of total brain size, much larger than that of primates. The corpus callosum mid-sagittal area to brain mass ratios (CCA/BM) ranged from 0.088 to 0.137, smaller than in most mammals. Dolphin hippocampal volumes were smaller than those of carnivores, ungulates, and humans, consistent with previous qualitative results assessed from histological studies of the bottlenose dolphin brain. These quantitative measurements of white matter, gray matter, corpus callosum, and hippocampus are the first to be determined from MR images for any cetacean species. We establish here an approach for accurately determining the size of brain structures from in situ MR images of stranded, dead dolphins. This approach can be used not only for comparative and developmental studies of marine mammal brains but also for investigation of the potential impacts of natural and anthropogenic chemicals on neurodevelopment and neuroanatomy in exposed marine mammal populations.
Muscle artifacts are typically associated with sleep arousals and awakenings in normal and pathological sleep, contaminating EEG recordings and distorting quantitative EEG results. Most EEG correction techniques focus on ocular artifacts but little research has been done on removing muscle activity from sleep EEG recordings. The present study was aimed at assessing the performance of four independent component analysis (ICA) algorithms (AMUSE, SOBI, Infomax, and JADE) to separate myogenic activity from EEG during sleep, in order to determine the optimal method. AMUSE, Infomax, and SOBI performed significantly better than JADE at eliminating muscle artifacts over temporal regions, but AMUSE was independent of the signal-to-noise ratio over non-temporal regions and markedly faster than the remaining algorithms. AMUSE was further successful at separating muscle artifacts from spontaneous EEG arousals when applied on a real case during different sleep stages. The low computational cost of AMUSE, and its excellent performance with EEG arousals from different sleep stages supports this ICA algorithm as a valid choice to minimize the influence of muscle artifacts on human sleep EEG recordings.
The vegetative state and other so-called disorders of consciousness present some of the most significant practical and ethical challenges in modern medicine. It is extremely difficult to assess residual cognitive function in these patients because their movements may be minimal or inconsistent, or because no cognitive output may be possible. In recent years, behavioral and neuroimaging techniques developed within the cognitive neurosciences have provided a number of new approaches for investigating these disorders, leading to significant advances in current understanding. In several cases, residual cognitive function and even conscious awareness have been demonstrated in patients who are assumed to be vegetative yet retain cognitive abilities that have evaded detection using standard clinical methods. In this article, I review these data, focusing primarily on the vegetative and minimally conscious states.
The human moral nature has perplexed laymen and academics for millennia. Recent developments in cognitive neuroscience are opening new venues for unveiling the complex psychological and neurobiological mechanisms underling human morality and its impairments. Here we review these lines of evidence and key topics of debate and explain why investigating the mechanisms of cognition-emotion interaction and of the neural bases of moral sentiments and values will be critical for our understanding of the human moral mind.
Can neurological evidence help courts assess criminal responsibility? To answer this question, we must first specify legal criteria for criminal responsibility and then ask how neurological findings can be used to determine whether particular defendants meet those criteria. Cognitive neuroscience may speak to at least two familiar conditions of criminal responsibility: intention and sanity. Functional neuroimaging studies in motor planning, awareness of actions, agency, social contract reasoning, and theory of mind, among others, have recently targeted a small assortment of brain networks thought to be instrumental in such determinations. Advances in each of these areas bring specificity to the problems underlying the application of neuroscience to criminal law.
The number of reports on the cognitive neuroscience of aging has increased in recent years, and most of these studies have found many similarities in the patterns of activity in young and old adults, indicating that basic neural mechanisms are maintained into older age. Despite these overall similarities, older adults often have less activity in some regions, such as medial temporal areas during memory processing and visual regions across a variety of cognitive domains. It seems clear that age reductions in cognitive function can be tied, at least in part, to these reductions in brain activity. On the other hand, older adults typically also overrecruit some brain areas, mainly the ventral or dorsal prefrontal cortex during memory tasks, as well as both the frontal and parietal regions during tasks engaging cognitive control processes, such as attention. Sometimes this overrecruitment appears to be in response to altered function in other brain regions and is often seen in those older adults who perform better on the task at hand. These findings have provided rather convincing support for the idea that overrecruitment can be compensatory in the elderly. Nevertheless, not all age increases can be interpreted as compensatory, and some are more indicative of neural inefficiency. The challenge facing future research will be to understand the task conditions that promote compensation in older adults, the role of the various brain areas in aiding cognitive function, and how these compensatory mechanisms can be elicited to enhance quality of life in the elderly.
Recent advances in the understanding of spatial cognition are reviewed, focusing on memory for locations in large-scale space and on those advances inspired by single-unit recording and lesion studies in animals. Spatial memory appears to be supported by multiple parallel representations, including egocentric and allocentric representations, and those updated to accommodate self-motion. The effects of these representations can be dissociated behaviorally, developmentally, and in terms of their neural bases. It is now becoming possible to construct a mechanistic neural-level model of at least some aspects of spatial memory and imagery, with the hippocampus and medial temporal lobe providing allocentric environmental representations, the parietal lobe egocentric representations, and the retrosplenial cortex and parieto-occipital sulcus allowing both types of representation to interact. Insights from this model include a common mechanism for the construction of spatial scenes in the service of both imagery and episodic retrieval and a role for the remainder of Papez's circuit in orienting the viewpoint used. In addition, it appears that hippocampal and striatal systems process different aspects of environmental layout (boundaries and local landmarks, respectively) and do so using different learning rules (incidental learning and associative reinforcement, respectively).
According to many theories, semantic representations reflect the parallel activation of information coded across a distributed set of modality-specific association brain cortices. This view is challenged by the neurodegenerative condition known as semantic dementia (SD), in which relatively circumscribed, bilateral atrophy of the anterior temporal lobes results in selective degradation of core semantic knowledge, affecting all types of concept, irrespective of the modality of testing. Research on SD suggests a major revision in our understanding of the neural basis of semantic memory. Specifically, it is proposed that the anterior temporal lobes form amodal semantic representations through the distillation of the multimodal information that is projected to this region from the modality-specific association cortices. Although cross-indexing of modality-specific information could be achieved by a web of direct connections between pairs of these regions, amodal semantic representations enable semantic generalization and inference on the basis of conceptual structure rather than modality-specific features. As expected from this hypothesis, SD is characterized by impaired semantic generalization, both clinically and in formal assessment. The article describes a comprehensive array of under- and overgeneralization errors by patients with SD when engaged in receptive and expressive verbal and nonverbal tasks and everyday behaviors.
This article focuses on the neural and cognitive processes that support imagining or simulating future events, a topic that has recently emerged in the forefront of cognitive neuroscience. We begin by considering concepts of simulation from a number of areas of psychology and cognitive neuroscience in order to place our use of the term in a broader context. We then review neuroimaging, neuropsychological, and cognitive studies that have examined future-event simulation and its relation to episodic memory. This research supports the idea that simulating possible future events depends on much of the same neural machinery, referred to here as a core network, as does remembering past events. After discussing several theoretical accounts of the data, we consider applications of work on episodic simulation for research concerning clinical populations suffering from anxiety or depression. Finally, we consider other aspects of future-oriented thinking that we think are related to episodic simulation, including planning, prediction, and remembering intentions. These processes together comprise what we have termed &quot;the prospective brain,&quot; whose primary function is to use past experiences to anticipate future events.



Guaran (Paullinia cupana) extracts are most commonly used in Western markets as putatively psychoactive food and drink additives. This double-blind, randomised, placebo-controlled, parallel groups study assessed the acute effects of either a vitamin/mineral/guaran supplement or placebo drink in 129 healthy young adults (18-24 years). Participants completed a 10min version of the Cognitive Demand Battery (comprising: Serial 3s and Serial 7s subtraction tasks, a Rapid Visual Information Processing (RVIP) task, 'mental fatigue' scale). Thirty minutes following their drink participants made six consecutive completions of the battery (i.e. 60 min). The vitamin/mineral/guaran combination resulted in improved task performance, in comparison to placebo, in terms of both increased speed and accuracy of performing the RVIP task throughout the post-dose assessment. The increase in mental fatigue associated with extended task performance was also attenuated by the supplement. This research supports previous findings demonstrating guaran's cognition enhancing properties and provides evidence that its addition to a multi-vitamin-mineral supplement can improve cognitive performance and reduce the mental fatigue associated with sustained mental effort.
ATP-sensitive K+ channels play an important role in regulating membrane potential during metabolic stress. In this work we report the effect of ATP and ADP-Mg on a K+ channel present in the membrane of rough endoplasmic reticulum (RER) from rat hepatocytes incorporated into lipid bilayers. Channel activity was found to decrease in presence of ATP 100 microM on the cytoplasmic side and was totally inhibited at ATP concentrations greater than 0.25mM. The effect appeared voltage dependent, suggesting that the ATP binding site was becoming available upon channel opening. Channel activity was suppressed by the nonhydrolyzable ATP analog (ATPgammaS), ruling out a phosphorylation-based mechanism. Notably addition of 2.5mM ADP-Mg to the cytosolic side increased the channel open probability at negative potentials. We conclude that the large conductance voltage-gated cation channel in RER of rat hepatocytes is an ATP and ADP sensitive channel likely to be involved in cellular processes such as Ca(2+) signaling or control of membrane potential across the endoplasmic reticulum membrane.
&quot;Executive functions&quot; is an umbrella term for functions such as planning, working memory, inhibition, mental flexibility, as well as the initiation and monitoring of action. The impairment of executive functions in various clinical groups is a topic of much debate, as are recent attempts to formulate the corresponding intervention and rehabilitation regimes of these dysfunctions. This article reviewed current theories of executive functions and their associated assessment instruments. In addition, it identified issues that are imperative for more accurate, sensitive, and specific assessment of various components of this construct. It is concluded that more research is needed to fractionate the executive system by assessing a wide range of functions and to verify their neuroanatomical correlates. Recently developed measurement models and technology may also facilitate a more ecologically and ethologically valid assessment for the specific needs of different individuals.

Whole-genome association analyses have begun to yield confirmed findings for genetic risk variants for complex disease. As the first reports of its application to neurological disease are described, we review this progress, explain the principles of the analysis, and discuss what the future is likely to be in this exciting area.
The origin/pathways of peptidergic nerves contributing to the parotid gland contents of vasoactive intestinal peptide (VIP), substance P and calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) were investigated by performing surgery on one side of the rat. Comparisons (based on total amount of peptide) were made between the gland on the operated side and the contralateral gland 7 days postoperatively. Otic ganglionectomy showed that almost all of the parotid gland contents of VIP (98%) and substance P (98%) were due to the otic connection, while this was true for only a minor portion (32%) of the CGRP-gland content. Section of the auriculo-temporal nerve showed that almost all of the VIP- and substance P-containing nerve fibres reached the parotid gland via this nerve, as judged by a reduction in the VIP-content by 88% and in the substance P-content by 93%, while the CGRP-content was only reduced by 37%. Section of the auriculo-temporal nerve combined with otic ganglionectomy did not reduce the gland contents of CGRP and substance P further than just otic ganglionectomy. Thus, the auriculo-temporal nerve is not likely to innervate the parotid gland with CGRP- and/or substance P-containing nerve fibres from the trigeminal ganglion.

This is a brief review of the literature focused on the articles that formed the basis for the classification of the nerve fibers. Mention is also made to the origin of the nomenclature of the different motoneurons (alpha, beta and gamma).
Current augmentative and alternative communication technologies allow animation within visual symbol displays. Clinicians therefore have the option of incorporating motion-based effects into AAC displays. Yet there is no research in the field of AAC to guide this clinical decision-making, in terms of the number or types of animated symbols that would best suit specific communication needs. A great deal is known within the discipline of cognitive neuroscience about how humans perceive motion, however. In this paper we propose that the field of AAC might exploit these known principles of motion perception, and we identify some potential uses of different types of motion. The discussion is presented within the context of neuro-cognitive theory concerning the neurological bases for motion perception.

Male test-subjects (n = 8, 25 to 36 years of age) were kept awake and working for 67 hrs. in an anechoic room. Every 1-2 hours the test-subjects performed eye-tracking of rhythmic light points with an abrupt and unexpected change of frequency. The task was to strike the key the moment the frequency was noticed to have changed. One test session took 10 to 15 minutes; depending on test duration, the number of frequency change could be from 38 up to 59-60. The moments of frequency change and keystroke were registered. Latent reaction time was determined (LRT). Individual LRT values and variations (SD) were evaluated. A statistically significant correlation between individual LRT values and variations was established, i.e. high SD corresponded to high LRT values and visa versa. Thus the worst test results were associated with high LRT values and variations, whereas, on the contrary, the best test results were characterized by low LRT values and variations. Data of the investigation are subject to analysis with regard to their relation to operator's stress tolerance; possible neurophysiological mechanisms of this relation are discussed.

Research on autobiographical memory (AM) and the ability to retrieve specific autobiographical events in euthymic depressed patients yielded divergent results. The main goal of the present study was to further explore episodic specificity of AM among fully remitted depressed patients. Twenty euthymic depressed patients and 20 matched healthy controls were given a semi-structured interview, which assesses episodic specificity of positive and negative autobiographical memories regarding event and details' specificity, autonoetic consciousness (remember/know procedure) and visual perspective (field/observer procedure). Results showed an impairment of episodic specificity of AM in euthymic depressed patients. This impairment was explained by a field perspective deficit for positive memories only. These results suggest that euthymic patients continue to exhibit discrepancy between their current self and their self for positive past behaviors, which maintains an unfavorable view of their current self. Specific cognitive interventions may improve the self-relevance of their positive memories.
Development of tight junctions and cell polarity in epithelial cells requires a complex cellular machinery to execute an internal program in response to ambient cues. Tight junctions, a product of this machinery, can act as gates of the paracellular pathway, fences that keep the identity of plasma membrane domains, bridges that communicate neighboring cells. The polarization internal program and machinery are conserved in yeast, worms, flies and mammals, and in cell types as different as epithelia, neurons and lymphocytes. Polarization and tight junctions are dynamic features that change during development, in response to physiological and pharmacological challenges and in pathological situations like infection.
Tight junctions (TJs) regulate the passage of ions and molecules through the paracellular pathway in epithelial and endothelial cells. TJs are highly dynamic structures whose degree of sealing varies according to external stimuli, physiological and pathological conditions. In this review we analyze how the crosstalk of protein kinase C, protein kinase A, myosin light chain kinase, mitogen-activated protein kinases, phosphoinositide 3-kinase and Rho signaling pathways is involved in TJ regulation triggered by diverse stimuli. We also report how the phosphorylation of the main TJ components, claudins, occludin and ZO proteins, impacts epithelial and endothelial cell function.
A confusingly wide variety of temporally asymmetric learning rules exists related to reinforcement learning and/or to spike-timing dependent plasticity, many of which look exceedingly similar, while displaying strongly different behavior. These rules often find their use in control tasks, for example in robotics and for this rigorous convergence and numerical stability is required. The goal of this article is to review these rules and compare them to provide a better overview over their different properties. Two main classes will be discussed: temporal difference (TD) rules and correlation based (differential hebbian) rules and some transition cases. In general we will focus on neuronal implementations with changeable synaptic weights and a time-continuous representation of activity. In a machine learning (non-neuronal) context, for TD-learning a solid mathematical theory has existed since several years. This can partly be transferred to a neuronal framework, too. On the other hand, only now a more complete theory has also emerged for differential Hebb rules. In general rules differ by their convergence conditions and their numerical stability, which can lead to very undesirable behavior, when wanting to apply them. For TD, convergence can be enforced with a certain output condition assuring that the delta-error drops on average to zero (output control). Correlation based rules, on the other hand, converge when one input drops to zero (input control). Temporally asymmetric learning rules treat situations where incoming stimuli follow each other in time. Thus, it is necessary to remember the first stimulus to be able to relate it to the later occurring second one. To this end different types of so-called eligibility traces are being used by these two different types of rules. This aspect leads again to different properties of TD and differential Hebbian learning as discussed here. Thus, this paper, while also presenting several novel mathematical results, is mainly meant to provide a road map through the different neuronally emulated temporal asymmetrical learning rules and their behavior to provide some guidance for possible applications.
Many studies have suggested that the behavioral and reinforcing effects of cocaine can be mediated by the central dopaminergic systems. It has been shown that repeated injections of cocaine produce an increase in locomotor activity, the expression of the immediate-early gene, c-fos, and the release of dopamine (DA) in the nucleus accumbens (NAc), which is one of the main dopaminergic terminal areas. Several studies have shown that behavioral activation and changes in extracellular dopamine levels in the central nervous system induced by psychomotor stimulants are prevented by ginseng total saponins (GTS). In order to investigate the effects of GTS on the repeated cocaine-induced behavioral and neurochemical alterations, we examined the influence of GTS on the cocaine-induced behavioral sensitization and on c-Fos expression in the brain using immunohistochemistry in rats repeatedly treated with cocaine. We also examined the effect of GTS on cocaine-induced dopamine release in the NAc of freely moving rats repeatedly treated with cocaine using an in vivo microdialysis technique. Pretreatment with GTS (100, 200, 400 mg/kg, i.p.) 30 min before the daily injections of cocaine (15 mg/kg, i.p.) significantly inhibited the repeated cocaine-induced increase in locomotor activity as well as the c-Fos expression in the core and shell in a dose-dependent manner. Also, pretreatment with GTS significantly decreased the repeated cocaine-induced increase in dopamine release in the NAc. Our data demonstrate that the inhibitory effects of GTS on the repeated cocaine-induced behavioral sensitization were closely associated with the reduction of dopamine release and the postsynaptic neuronal activity. The results of the present study suggest that GTS may be effective for inhibiting the behavioral effects of cocaine by possibly modulating the central dopaminergic system. These results also suggest that GTS may prove to be a useful therapeutic agent for cocaine addiction.

Using the Iowa Gambling Task (IGT) and psychophysiological correlates of emotional responses (i.e., heart rate and skin conductance), we investigate the effects of trait anxiety (TA) on decision-making. We find that high TA is associated with both impaired decision-making and increased anticipatory physiological (somatic) responses prior to advantageous trials. For both high and low TA, skin conductance responses preceding advantageous trials predict decisions. At the same time, somatic responses to choice outcomes reflect differences between high and low TA sensitivities to punishments and rewards. The pattern of impaired decision-making and increased somatic markers that we find in high TA may have important implications for neuropsychological decision theory. In particular, it offers an example of defective modulation of somatic signals, coupled with disrupted discrimination of advantageous and disadvantageous choices.
Behavioral and event-related potential (ERP) measures were used to assess cognitive workload from expert computer gamers playing a &quot;first-person shooter&quot; video game. Game difficulty level was manipulated in separate conditions by adjusting the number of enemies (view, easy, medium, and hard). Infrequently presented single-stimulus tones were either ignored or counted across difficulty conditions. Game performance and tone-counting accuracy declined as game difficulty increased. ERP component amplitudes diminished for both the tone ignore and counting conditions as game difficulty increased. The findings suggest that cognitive workload induced by video gaming can be reliably assessed through behavioral and neuroelectric means, and that the single-stimulus paradigm can be a useful tool for evaluating workload in an immersive stimulus environment with less distraction than conventional tools.
Protein misfolding and aggregation are central events in many disorders including several neurodegenerative diseases. This suggests that alterations in normal protein homeostasis may contribute to pathogenesis, but the exact molecular mechanisms involved are still poorly understood. The budding yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae is one of the model systems of choice for studies in molecular medicine. Modeling human neurodegenerative diseases in this simple organism has already shown the incredible power of yeast to unravel the complex mechanisms and pathways underlying these pathologies. Indeed, this work has led to the identification of several potential therapeutic targets and drugs for many diseases, including the neurodegenerative diseases. Several features associated with these diseases, such as formation of protein aggregates, cellular toxicity mediated by misfolded proteins, oxidative stress and hallmarks of apoptosis have been faithfully recapitulated in yeast, enabling researchers to take advantage of this powerful model to rapidly perform genetic and compound screens with the aim of identifying novel candidate therapeutic targets and drugs. Here we review the work undertaken to model human brain disorders in yeast, and how these models provide insight into novel therapeutic approaches for these diseases.

Epidemiological studies have repeatedly shown that reproductive processes in pregnant women are adversely affected by exposure to cigarette smoke. The potential reproductive targets of smoke during pregnancy include the ovaries, oviducts, uterus, placenta, umbilical cord, and embryo/fetus. In vitro methods for studying the effects of smoke and its individual components have been developed and applied to each of these reproductive targets. In vitro assays have been useful in determining the biological processes that are affected in the reproductive organs and in identifying the cellular and molecular targets of smoke in each organ. In vitro methods have also been used to study the mechanism of action of smoke constituents, such as nicotine, on specific processes in reproductive organs and to screen smoke solutions to identify the molecules that affect reproduction. In general, data collected in vitro have confirmed, extended, and helped explain what has been learned from epidemiological studies. This review summarizes some of the in vitro assays that have been used to study cigarette smoke's effect on the nonpregnant and pregnant female reproductive tract and spotlights examples of their applications.
Two separate paths to the concept of intelligence are discussed: the psychometric path being concerned with the measurement of intelligence, involving the methodology of norm-referenced testing; the path followed by Piaget, and others, addresses from the start the related question of how intelligence can be described, and employs a criterion-referenced methodology. The achievements of psychometrics are briefly described, with an argument that they now remain important tools of what Kuhn called 'normal science'. The criterion-referenced approach of Piaget and others is described, with evidence from intervention studies that the Genevan descriptions of children-in-action have allowed the choice of contexts within which children can profitably be challenged to go further in their thinking. Hence, Genevan psychology is also now a part of the normal science with important uses, shown both in neo-Piagetian studies and further research stemming from Geneva. Discussion of the 'Flynn effect' sheds light on both paths, with problems still unresolved. The argument is then developed that the relevance of neuroscience needs to be discussed to try to decide in what ways it may provide useful insights into intelligence.
Current treatments of schizophrenia are compromised by their inability to treat all symptoms of the disease and their side-effects. Whilst existing antipsychotic drugs are effective against positive symptoms, they have negligible efficacy against the prefrontal cortex (PFC)-associated cognitive deficits and negative symptoms. New models that reproduce core pathophysiological features of schizophrenia are more likely to have improved predictive validity in identifying new treatments. We have developed a NMDA receptor antagonist model that reproduces core PFC deficits of schizophrenia and discuss this in relation to pathophysiology and treatments. Subchronic and chronic intermittent PCP (2.6 mg/kg i.p.) was administered to rats. PFC activity was assessed by 2-deoxyglucose imaging, parvalbumin and Kv3.1 mRNA expression, and the attentional set-shifting test (ASST) of executive function. Affymetrix gene array technology was employed to examine gene expression profile patterns. PCP treatment reduced glucose utilization in the PFC (hypofrontality). This was accompanied by a reduction in markers of GABAergic interneurones (parvalbumin and Kv3.1 mRNA expression) and deficits in the extradimensional shift dimension of the ASST. Consistent with their clinical profile, the hypofrontality was not reversed by clozapine or haloperidol. Transcriptional analysis revealed patterns of change consistent with current neurobiological theories of schizophrenia. This model mirrors core neurobiological deficits of schizophrenia; hypofrontality, altered markers of GABAergic interneurone activity and deficits in executive function. As such it is likely to be a valuable translational model for understanding the neurobiological mechanisms underlying hypofrontality and for identifying and validating novel drug targets that may restore PFC deficits in schizophrenia.

The neurotrophin brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) plays an important role in the activity-dependent regulation of synaptic structure and function, particularly of the glutamatergic synapses. BDNF may be released in the mature form, which activates preferentially TrkB receptors, or as proBDNF, which is coupled to the stimulation of the p75(NTR). In the mature form BDNF induces rapid effects on glutamate release, and may induce short- and long-term effects on the postsynaptic response to the neurotransmitter. BDNF may affect glutamate receptor activity by inducing the phosphorylation of the receptor subunits, which may also affect the interaction with intracellular proteins and, consequently, their recycling and localization to defined postsynaptic sites. Stimulation of the local protein synthesis and transcription activity account for the delayed effects of BDNF on glutamatergic synaptic strength. Several evidences show impaired synaptic plasticity of glutamatergic synapses in diseases where compromised BDNF function has been observed, such as Huntington's disease, depression, anxiety, and the BDNF polymorphism Val66Met, suggesting that upregulating BDNF-activated pathways may be therapeutically relevant. This review focuses on recent advances in the understanding of the regulation of the glutamatergic synapse by BDNF, and its implications in synaptic plasticity.
Stroke is a major cause of both death and disability. However, there are no pharmacological treatments used in most countries other than recombinant tissue plasminogen activator, a thrombolytic, and this is only used in about 4% of patients presenting after an acute ischaemic stroke. One novel thrombolytic (desmoteplase) has just been reported to have failed in a Phase IIb/III trial, but other thrombolytics and reperfusion agents remain in development. The picture with neuroprotectant agents, that is compounds that act to preserve neurones following an acute cerebral ischaemic insult, is even more bleak. Despite the development of over 1,000 compounds, many proving effective in animal models of stroke, none has demonstrated efficacy in patients in the over 100 clinical trials conducted. This includes NXY-059, which was developed in accordance with the guidelines proposed by an academic-industry roundtable group (STAIR). This review examines the available data on compounds currently in development. It also proposes that the failure of translation between efficacy in preclinical models and patients is likely to terminate most current neuroprotective drug development. It is suggested that animal models must be made more representative of the patient condition (with other co-morbid conditions) and suggests that since stroke is primarily a cardiovascular disease with a neurological outcome, more research on the neurovascular unit would be valuable. New approaches on neuroinflammation, neurorestoration and neurorepair are also likely to gain prominence in the search for new drugs to treat this major clinical problem.
Preventing death and limiting handicap from ischaemic stroke are major goals that can be achieved only if the pathophysiology of infarct expansion is properly understood. Primate studies showed that following occlusion of the middle cerebral artery (MCA)--the most frequent and prototypical stroke, local tissue fate depends on the severity of hypoperfusion and duration of occlusion, with a fraction of the MCA territory being initially in a 'penumbral' state. Physiological quantitative PET imaging has translated this knowledge in man and revealed the presence of considerable pathophysiological heterogeneity from patient to patient, largely unpredictable from elapsed time since onset or clinical deficit. While these observations underpinned key trials of thrombolysis, they also indicate that only patients who are likely to benefit should be exposed to its risks. Accordingly, imaging-based diagnosis is rapidly becoming an essential component of stroke assessment, replacing the clock by individually customized management. Diffusion- and perfusion-weighted MR (DWI-PWI) and CT-based perfusion imaging are increasingly being used to implement this, and are undergoing formal validation against PET. Beyond thrombolysis per se, knowledge of the individual pathophysiology also guides management of variables like blood pressure, blood glucose and oxygen saturation, which can otherwise precipitate the penumbra into the core, and the oligaemic tissue into the penumbra. We propose that future therapeutic trials use physiological imaging to select the patient category that best matches the drug's presumed mode of action, rather than lumping together patients with entirely different pathophysiological patterns in so-called 'large trials', which have all failed so far.

The basal ganglia (BG) are thought to play a key role in learning from feedback, with mesencephalic dopamine neurons coding errors in reward prediction, thereby mediating information processing in the BG and the prefrontal cortex. In the present study, reward-based learning was assessed in patients with focal BG lesions, by studying outcome-based acquisition and reversal of stimulus-stimulus associations with different reward magnitudes in two probabilistic learning tasks. Eleven patients with selective BG lesions (three females) and 18 healthy control subjects (six females) participated in this study. Two cognitive transfer tasks provided a measure of declarative learning strategy application. On the group level, BG patients showed deficits in reversal learning, with dorsal striatum lesion patients being most severely affected. While basic mechanisms of learning from feedback such as the processing of different reward magnitudes appeared to be intact, patients needed more trials than controls to learn a second reward-based task, suggesting reduced carry-over effects in learning. A patient with a bilateral BG lesion showed better performance than controls on most learning tasks, applying a compensatory declarative learning strategy. The results are discussed in terms of the implication of different BG subregions in different aspects of learning from feedback.
Neural stem cells (NSCs) are widely endorsed as a cell source for replacement strategies in neurodegenerative disease. However, their usefulness is currently limited by the inability to induce specific neurotransmitter phenotypes in these cells. In order to direct dopaminergic neuronal fate, we overexpressed Pitx3 in NSCs that were then exposed to E11 developing ventral mesencephalon (VM) in explant culture. This resulted in a significant potentiation of dopaminergic differentiation of the cells. When transplanted into the 6-hydroxydopamine lesioned Parkinsonian rats, these cografts of VM and Pitx3 overexpressing NSCs resulted in a significant restitution of motor function. In addition, there were greater numbers of Girk2 positive A9 neurons in the periphery of the transplants that were NSC derived. This demonstrates that given the correct signals, NSCs can be induced to become dopaminergic neurons that can differentiate into the correct nigrastriatal phenotype required for the treatment of Parkinson's disease.
Two hundred and twenty-three consecutive patients fulfilling clinical diagnostic criteria for frontotemporal lobar degeneration (FTLD), and 259 patients with motor neuron disease (MND), for whom genomic DNA was available, were investigated for the presence of mutations in tau (MAPT) and progranulin (PGRN) genes. All FTLD patients had undergone longitudinal neuropsychological and clinical assessment, and in 44 cases, the diagnosis had been pathologically confirmed at post-mortem. Six different PGRN mutations were found in 13 (6%) patients with FTLD. Four apparently unrelated patients shared exon Q415X 10 stop codon mutation. However, genotyping data revealed all four patients shared common alleles of 15 SNPs from rs708386 to rs5848, defining a 45.8-kb haplotype containing the whole PGRN gene, suggesting they are related. Three patients shared exon 11 R493X stop codon mutation. Four patients shared exon 10 V452WfsX38 frameshift mutation. Two of these patients were siblings, though not apparently related to the other patients who in turn appeared unrelated. One patient had exon 1 C31LfsX34 frameshift mutation, one had exon 4 Q130SfsX130 frameshift mutation and one had exon 10 Q468X stop codon mutation. In addition, two non-synonymous changes were detected: G168S change in exon 5 was found in a single patient, with no family history, who showed a mixed FTLD/MND picture and A324T change in exon 9 was found in two cases; one case of frontotemporal dementia (FTD) with a sister with FTD+MND and the other in a case of progressive non-fluent aphasia (PNFA) without any apparent family history. MAPT mutations were found in 17 (8%) patients. One patient bore exon 10 + 13 splice mutation, and 16 patients bore exon 10 + 16 splice mutation. When PGRN and MAPT mutation carriers were excluded, there were no significant differences in either the allele or genotype frequencies, or haplotype frequencies, between the FTLD cohort as a whole, or for any clinical diagnostic FTLD subgroup, and 286 controls or between MND cases and controls. However, possession of the A allele of SNP rs9897526, in intron 4 of PGRN, delayed mean age at onset by approximately 4 years. Patients with PGRN and MAPT mutations did not differ significantly from other FTLD cases in terms of gender distribution or total duration of illness. However, a family history of dementia in a first-degree relative was invariably present in MAPT cases, but not always so in PGRN cases. Onset of illness was earlier in MAPT cases compared to PGRN and other FTLD cases. PNFA, combined with limb apraxia was significantly more common in PGRN mutation cases than other FTLD cases. By contrast, the behavioural disorder of FTD combined with semantic impairment was a strong predictor of MAPT mutations. These findings complement recent clinico-pathological findings in suggesting identifiable associations between clinical phenotype and genotype in FTLD.
This commentary reflects on the work by Chen and colleagues which compares the effect of an immune challenge in hippocampus and hippocampal-dependent function young and aged mice.
Two versions of the line bisection task, paper-and-pencil and computerized, were administered to non-medicated children (5-12 years) with and without Attention-Deficit/Hyperactivity Disorder (ADHD). Fifteen children were classified with ADHD-Inattentive type (ADHD-I), 15 were classified with ADHD-Combined or Hyperactive-Impulsive type (ADHD-C), and 15 children served as controls. During the paper-and-pencil task, and irrespective of hand-use, participants with ADHD-C bisected lines with a right bias, whereas participants with ADHD-I showed a leftwards bias. Interestingly, during the computerized version, an opposite pattern of hemineglect was observed with a leftwards bias for participants with ADHD-C and a rightwards bias for participants with ADHD-I. These findings suggest that different task demands are associated with the paper-and-pencil and computerized tasks. The findings also suggest that the two subtypes differ according to their cognitive profile, and possibly differ as to their underlying neural impairment.
Functional MRI was used in healthy subjects to investigate the existence of common neural structures supporting re-experiencing the past and pre-experiencing the future. Past and future events evocation appears to involve highly similar patterns of brain activation including, in particular, the medial prefrontal cortex, posterior regions and the medial temporal lobes. This result seems to support the view of a common neurocognitive system, which would allow humans to mentally travel through time. Past events recollection was associated with greater amplitude of hippocampal and anterior medial prefrontal hemodynamic responses. This result is discussed in terms of the involvement of the self in the conscious experience of past and future events representations. More generally, our data provide new evidence in favour of the idea that re- and pre-experiencing past and future events may rely on similar cognitive capacities.
Recent findings suggest the involvement of the cerebellum in perceptual and cognitive tasks. Our study investigated whether cerebellar patients show musical priming based on implicit knowledge of tonal-harmonic music. Participants performed speeded phoneme identification on sung target chords, which were either related or less-related to prime contexts in terms of the tonal-harmonic system. As groups, both cerebellar patients and age-matched controls showed facilitated processing for related targets, as previously observed for healthy young adults. The outcome suggests that an intact cerebellum is not mandatory for accessing implicit knowledge stored in long-term memory and for its influence on perception. One patient showed facilitated processing for less-related targets (suggesting sensory priming). The findings suggest directions for future research on auditory perception in cerebellar patients to further our understanding of cerebellar functions.
This study was aimed at investigating face categorization strategies in children with autistic spectrum disorders (ASD). Performance of 17 children with ASD was compared to that of 17 control children in a face-matching task, including hybrid faces (composed of two overlapping faces of different spatial bandwidths) and either low- or high-pass filtered faces. Participants were asked to match faces on the basis of identity, emotion or gender. Results revealed that children with ASD used the same strategies as controls when matching faces by gender. By contrast, in the identity and the emotion conditions, children with ASD showed a high-pass bias (i.e., preference for local information), contrary to controls. Consistent with previous studies on autism, these findings suggest that children with ASD do use atypical (local-oriented) strategies to process faces.
The triad symptoms of idiopathic normal pressure hydrocephalus (iNPH), i.e., dementia, gait disturbance, and urinary incontinence may appear commonly in the elderly suffering from various brain diseases as well as in those with musculoskeletal disorders. It would not be easy to differentiate iNPH from other neurological diseases with musculoskeletal disorders in the elderly. Gait disturbance is an early and central clinical symptom, and its improvement after temporary removal of CSF and shunt surgery is the most notable. This paper reviews the nature, differential diagnosis, pathophysiology, and evaluation of iNPH gait. Broad-based, short-step, magnetic gait with start hesitation and increased instability on turning, which is often expressed as apraxic/ataxic gait, is the cardinal sign of iNPH. Although iNPH gait shares the features with gait in Parkinson disease, progressive supranuclear palsy, and cerebellar ataxia, the nature of iNPH gait is the closest to apraxia of gait, which is characterized primarily by gait ignition failure. The semiological similarity to apraxia of gait and the close relationship to frontal symptoms indicate that the iNPH gait is probably caused by frontal dysfunction. The gait subscale of the idiopathic normal pressure hydrocephalus grading scale and the timed &quot;Up and Go&quot; test are recommended as useful tools for measuring gait disturbance in iNPH.
For a long time the endocrine brain was considered to the hypothalamus and to its special relationships with the hypophysis. The discovery of the wide distribution of steroid hormone receptors, as well as that of the possibility of metabolizing or synthesizing steroids by neural cells (neuroactive steroids), suggest, on the contrary, that interactions among steroids and nervous system are key points of the regulatory processes in the central and peripheral nervous system in normal conditions as well as in pathological conditions. In this brief overview we illustrate a few examples of these relationships with major emphasis on papers collected in this special issue.
Olfactory signals play a central role in the identification of a mating partner in rodents, and the behavioral response to these cues varies markedly between the sexes. As several other sexually dimorphic traits, this response is thought to differentiate as a result of exposure of the developing individual to gonadal steroids, but both the identity of the specific steroid signal and the neural structures targeted for differentiation on this particular case are largely unknown. The present review summarizes results obtained in our lab using genetic males affected by the testicular feminization syndrome (Tfm) as experimental model, and that led to the identification of a role for non-aromatized gonadal steroids acting through the androgen receptor (AR) in the differentiation of olfactory cues processing in mice. The existing literature about AR-mediated sexual differentiation of the CNS in animal models is discussed, along with potential targets for the action of non-aromatized gonadal steroids in either one of the subsystems that detect and process olfactory information in rodents.
Gonadal hormones modulate neurogenesis in the dentate gyrus differentially in male and female adult rodents. Neurogenesis is comprised of at least two components: cell proliferation (the production of new cells) and cell survival (the number of new neurons that survive to maturity). Previous studies have found sex differences in the level of cell proliferation in the dentate gyrus only when comparing females in a high estrogen state to males. This review focuses on the effects of acute and chronic levels of estrogens or androgens on hippocampal neurogenesis in the adult male and female rodent. Evidence is also reviewed for the co-localization of androgen receptors and estrogen receptors (ER) with markers for cell proliferation or immature new cell survival. Briefly, evidence suggests that acute estradiol initially enhances and subsequently suppresses cell proliferation in the dentate gyrus of adult female rodents but may have limited effects in male rodents. Both the two known ER subtypes, ERalpha and beta upregulate hippocampal neurogenesis via cell proliferation. Intriguingly, repeated exposure to estradiol modulates hippocampal neurogenesis and cell death in adult female, but not male, rodents. However short-term estradiol treatment (5 days) in male meadow voles enhances new cell survival in the dentate gyrus but only when administered during the 'axon extension' phase. Furthermore, evidence is also reviewed showing a difference in response to acute and chronic estradiol treatment in older female rats compared to younger female rats. Recent findings from our laboratory indicate that testosterone and dihydrotestosterone upregulate hippocampal neurogenesis (via cell survival), but not cell proliferation, in adult male rodents. Effects of endogenous fluctuations in gonadal hormones on adult neurogenesis are observed across the seasons in meadow voles and during pregnancy and lactation in the rat dam. Pregnancy and motherhood differentially regulate adult hippocampal neurogenesis in the adult female rodent, with primiparous rats displaying lower levels of hippocampal cell proliferation and survival after parturition. Few studies have compared males and females but existing research suggests a sex difference in the hormonal regulation of hippocampal neurogenesis in the adult. Clearly more work is needed to elucidate the effects of gonadal hormones on neurogenesis in the dentate gyrus of both male and female rodents across the lifespan, especially if we are to use our knowledge of how adult neurogenesis is regulated to develop strategies to repair neuron loss in neurodegenerative diseases.
Neurons and glial cells are capable of synthesizing bioactive steroids also called neurosteroids which modulate the nervous system activity. Neurosteroids act via autocrine or paracrine mechanisms. Therefore, before neurosteroids can be considered as endogenous modulators of a specific neurophysiologic function, it is compulsory that the process of neurosteroidogenesis occurs in neural pathways controlling this function. Based on pharmacological observations, various studies suggested the involvement of endogenous neurosteroids in the modulation of a variety of neurobiological processes. However, the direct link between these processes and endogenous production of neurosteroids in the nervous system remains unknown. The present review recapitulates a series of results showing the existence of interactions between peripheral nerve injury and neurosteroid biosynthesis in the central nervous system (CNS). In particular, the paper discusses the impact of sciatic nerve ligature on genomic and biochemical components of neurosteroidogenesis in the spinal cord and brainstem areas including the parabrachial, raphe magnus and dorsal raphe nuclei which control nociception. It appears that peripheral nerve injuries evoke changes in the gene expression and biological activity of cytochrome P450side-chain-cleavage, the key enzyme catalyzing the onset of neurosteroidogenesis in the CNS. Owing to neurosteroid involvement in the control of various neurobiological functions, these data suggest that neurosteroidogenesis is an endogenous mechanism activated in the CNS for adaptation of the body to chronic peripheral neuropathies. Therefore, strategies based on selective targeting of neurosteroidogenic pathways may constitute interesting approaches to develop novel therapy against disorders provoked by central and peripheral neuropathies.
It is well established that sulfated steroids regulate synaptic transmission by altering the function of postsynaptic neurotransmitter receptors. In recent years, evidence from several laboratories indicates that these agents also regulate glutamatergic synaptic transmission at the presynaptic level in an age-dependent manner. In developing neurons, pregnenolone sulfate (PREGS) increases the probability of glutamate release, as evidenced by an increase in the frequency of AMPA receptor-mediated miniature excitatory postsynaptic currents and a decrease in paired-pulse facilitation. In hippocampal slices from postnatal day 3-5 rats, this effect is mediated by an increase in Ca(2+) levels in the axonal terminal that depends on presynaptic NMDA receptors. This is followed by delayed potentiation of postsynaptic AMPA receptor currents. Importantly, depolarization of postsynaptic neurons, inhibition of hydroxysteroid sulfatase activity and acute exposure to ethanol mimics the effect of exogenous PREGS application. This developmental form of synaptic plasticity cannot be observed in slices from rats older than postnatal day 6, when presynaptic NMDA receptors are no longer expressed in CA1 hippocampal region. Both in the CA1 hippocampal region and the dentate gyrus of more mature rats, PREGS, dehydroepiandrosterone sulfate and hydroxysteroid sulfatase inhibitors increase paired-pulse facilitation, without affecting basal glutamate release probability. This effect depends on activation of sigma(1)-like receptors and G(i/o) and involves a target in the release machinery that is downstream of residual Ca(2+). These presynaptic actions of sulfated steroids could play important roles in physiological processes ranging from synapse maturation to learning and memory, as well as pathophysiological conditions such as fetal alcohol spectrum disorder.
The stress response is mediated by the hypothalamo-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) system. Activity of the corticotropin-releasing hormone (CRH) neurons in the hypothalamic paraventricular nucleus (PVN) forms the basis of the activity of the HPA-axis. The CRH neurons induce adrenocorticotropin (ACTH) release from the pituitary, which subsequently causes cortisol release from the adrenal cortex. The CRH neurons co-express vasopressin (AVP) which potentiates the CRH effects. CRH neurons project not only to the median eminence but also into brain areas where they, e.g., regulate the adrenal innervation of the autonomic system and affect mood. The hypothalamo-neurohypophysial system is also involved in stress response. It releases AVP from the PVN and the supraoptic nucleus (SON) and oxytocin (OXT) from the PVN via the neurohypophysis into the bloodstream. The suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN), the hypothalamic clock, is responsible for the rhythmic changes of the stress system. Both centrally released CRH and increased levels of cortisol contribute to the signs and symptoms of depression. Symptoms of depression can be induced in experimental animals by intracerebroventricular injection of CRH. Depression is also a frequent side effect of glucocorticoid treatment and of the symptoms of Cushing's syndrome. The AVP neurons in the hypothalamic PVN and SON are also activated in depression, which contributes to the increased release of ACTH from the pituitary. Increased levels of circulating AVP are also associated with the risk for suicide. The prevalence, incidence and morbidity risk for depression are higher in females than in males and fluctuations in sex hormone levels are considered to be involved in the etiology. About 40% of the activated CRH neurons in mood disorders co-express nuclear estrogen receptor (ER)-alpha in the PVN, while estrogen-responsive elements have been found in the CRH gene promoter region, and estrogens stimulate CRH production. An androgen-responsive element in the CRH gene promoter region initiates a suppressing effect on CRH expression. The decreased activity of the SCN is the basis for the disturbances of circadian and circannual fluctuations in mood, sleep and hormonal rhythms found in depression. Neuronal loss was also reported in the hippocampus of stressed or corticosteroid-treated rodents and primates. Because of the inhibitory control of the hippocampus on the HPA-axis, damage to this structure was expected to disinhibit the HPA-axis, and to cause a positive feedforward cascade of increasing glucocorticoid levels over time. This 'glucocorticoid cascade hypothesis' of stress and hippocampal damage was proposed to be causally involved in age-related accumulation of hippocampal damage in disorders like Alzheimer's disease and depression. However, in postmortem studies we could not find the presumed hippocampal damage of steroid overexposure in either depressed patients or in patients treated with synthetic steroids.
Oxidative stress, bioenergetic failure and mitochondrial dysfunction are all implicated in the etiology of neurodegenerative diseases such as Alzheimer's disease (AD). The mitochondrial involvement in neurodegenerative diseases reflects the regulatory role mitochondrial failure plays in both necrotic cell death and apoptosis. The potent feminizing hormone, 17 beta-estradiol (E2), is neuroprotective in a host of cell and animal models of stroke and neurodegenerative diseases. The discovery that 17alpha-estradiol, an isomer of E2, is equally as neuroprotective as E2 yet is &gt;200-fold less active as a hormone, has permitted development of novel, more potent analogs where neuroprotection is independent of hormonal potency. Studies of structure-activity relationships and mitochondrial function have led to a mechanistic model in which these steroidal phenols intercalate into cell membranes where they block lipid peroxidation reactions, and are in turn recycled. Indeed, the parental estrogens and novel analogs stabilize mitochondria under Ca(2+) loading otherwise sufficient to collapse membrane potential. The neuroprotective and mitoprotective potencies for a series of estrogen analogs are significantly correlated, suggesting that these compounds prevent cell death in large measure by maintaining functionally intact mitochondria. This therapeutic strategy is germane not only to sudden mitochondrial failure in acute circumstances, such as during a stroke or myocardial infarction, but also to gradual mitochondrial dysfunction associated with chronic degenerative disorders such as AD.



Presenilin-1 (PS1) is a component of the beta-catenin degradation machinery, and PS1 mutations linked to familial Alzheimer's disease (FAD) represent a loss of this function, leading, in non-neuronal cells, to accumulation of cyclin D1, aberrant cell cycle activation and hyperproliferation. In post-mitotic neurons, cell cycle activation is thought to be abortive and initiate apoptosis, thus contributing to AD pathogenesis. Consequently, we tested here the hypothesis that, in the PS1 FAD brain, cyclin D1 accumulation may occur and lead to neuronal apoptosis secondary to an abortive entry into the cell cycle.
Huntington's disease (HD) is a progressive neurodegenerative disorder caused by a mutation in the gene huntingtin and characterized by motor, cognitive and psychiatric symptoms. Huntingtin contains a CAG repeat in exon 1. An expansion of this CAG repeat above 35 results in misfolding of Huntingtin, giving rise to protein aggregates and neuronal cell death. There are several transgenic HD mouse models that reproduce most of the features of the human disorder, for example protein inclusions, some neurodegeneration as well as motor and cognitive symptoms. At the same time, a subgroup of the HD transgenic mouse models exhibit dramatically reduced susceptibility to excitotoxicity. The mechanism behind this is unknown. Here, we review the literature regarding this phenomenon, attempt to explain what protein domains are crucial for this phenomenon and point toward a putative mechanism. We suggest, that the C-terminal domain of exon 1 Huntingtin, namely the proline rich domain, is responsible for mediating a neuroprotective effect against excitotoxicity. Furthermore, we point out the possible importance of this mechanism for future therapies in neurological disorders that have been suggested to be associated with excitotoxicity, for example Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's disease and amyotrophic lateral sclerosis.
Intracellular protein concentration gradients are generally thought to be unsustainable at steady-state due to diffusion. Here we show how protein concentration gradients can theoretically be sustained indefinitely through a relatively simple mechanism that couples diffusion to a spatially segregated kinase-phosphatase system. Although it is appreciated that such systems can theoretically give rise to phosphostate gradients, it has been assumed that they do not give rise to gradients in the total protein concentration. Here we show that this assumption does not hold if the two forms of protein have different diffusion coefficients. If, for example, the phosphorylated state binds selectively to a second larger protein or protein complex then a steady state gradient in total protein concentration will be created. We illustrate the principle with an analytical solution to the diffusion-reaction problem and by stochastic individual-based simulations using the Smoldyn program. We argue that protein gradients created in this way need to be considered in experiments using fluorescent probes and could in principle encode spatial information in the cytoplasm.
The organization of the antennal muscles, nerves, and motor neurons has been investigated in the cockroach, Periplaneta americana. Antennal movements have been observed by video analysis, muscle actions have been determined by dissection and direct mechanical testing, and the motor neurons innervating each muscle have been defined with a recently developed selective backfill method. A model of the antennomotor system of Periplaneta has thus been established and compared with that of crickets. Five muscles located within the head capsule insert on the most proximal antennal segment, the scape. By their action, they allow the scape to move in essentially any direction within the dorsoventral and anteroposterior planes. An additional pair of muscles, one dorsal and one ventral, are found within the scape. They insert on the pedicel and move the pedicel in the dorsal-ventral plane. These seven muscles are controlled by at least 17 motor neurons with somata located in the deutocerebrum. By their action, these motor neurons enable cockroaches to move the long flagellum of each antenna through a wide range of positions in the frontal space, medio-laterally, and also allow depression toward the substrate and elevation well above the level of the head. The antennal motor neurons have been classified into five morphological types based on soma and axon location. Each morphological type has been correlated with a particular pattern of muscle innervation and control. The neurites of all motor neurons are located along the medial aspect of the dorsal lobe of the deutocerebrum.
Hemicrania continua (HC) is an indomethacin-responsive headache characterized by a chronic, strictly unilateral, side-locked without side-shifting, persistent headache. We report three cases of HC with atypical features in which an acute administration of indomethacin 50 mg IM (INDOTEST) was performed. In all three cases INDOTEST predicted chronic responsiveness to indomethacin. Thus, in cases of HC with atypical features, INDOTEST could help for a correct diagnosis and therapy.
In the nervous system many behaviorally relevant dynamical processes are characterized by episodes of complex oscillatory states, whose periodicity may be expressed over multiple temporal and spatial scales. In at least some of these instances the variability in oscillatory amplitude and frequency can be explained in terms of deterministic dynamics, rather than being purely noise-driven. Recently interest has increased in studying the application of mixed-mode oscillations (MMOs) to neurophysiological data. MMOs are complex periodic waveforms where each period is comprised of several maxima and minima of different amplitudes. While MMOs might be expected to occur in brain kinetics, only a few examples have been identified thus far. In this article, we review recent theoretical and experimental findings on brain oscillatory rhythms in relation to MMOs, focusing on examples at the single neuron level but also briefly touching on possible instances of the phenomenon across local and global brain networks.
This study investigates the ability of 6-month-old infants to attend to the continuous properties of a set of discrete entities. Infants were habituated to dot arrays that were constant in cumulative surface area yet varied in number for small (&lt; 4) or large (&gt; 3) sets. Results revealed that infants detected a 4-fold (but not 3-fold) change in area, regardless of set size. These results are in marked contrast to demonstrations that infants of the same age successfully discriminate a 2- or 3-fold change in number, providing strong counterevidence to the claim that infants use solely nonnumerical, continuous extent variables when discriminating sets. These findings also shed light on the processes involved in tracking continuous variables in infants.


Preconditioning is a phenomenon in which the brain protects itself against future injury by adapting to low doses of noxious insults. Preconditioning stimuli include ischemia, low doses of endotoxin, hypoxia, hypothermia and hyperthermia, cortical spreading depression, anesthetics, and 3-nitropropionic acid, among others. Understanding of the mechanisms underlying preconditioning has been elusive, but NMDA receptor activation, nitric oxide, inflammatory cytokines, and suppression of the innate immune system appear to have a role. Elucidation of the endogenous cell survival pathways involved in preconditioning has significant clinical implications for preventing neuronal damage in susceptible patients.
Deep brain stimulation has significantly improved the motor symptoms in patients with Parkinson's disease (PD) and other movement disorders. The mechanisms responsible for these improvements continue to be explored. Inhibition at the site of stimulation has been the prevailing explanation for the symptom improvement observed with deep brain stimulation. Research using microelectrode recording during deep brain stimulation in the MPTP monkey model of PD has helped clarify how electrical stimulation of structures within the basal ganglia-thalamocortical circuit improves motor symptoms, and suggests that activation of output and the resultant change in pattern of neuronal activity that permeates throughout the basal ganglia motor circuit is the mechanism responsible for symptom improvement.

Temporal lobe epilepsy (TLE) is associated with modification in thalamic structure and function. In particular, thalamic atrophy and hypometabolism can occur, affecting ipsilateral, contralateral thalami or both. We describe a 28-year-old epileptic woman, who presented peculiar neuroimaging findings, with enlargement of the thalamus contralateral to the epileptic focus. The patient was born from dystocic delivery, she presented partial motor seizures in the left side of the body, followed by generalisation, and the EEG showed a right temporal epileptic focus. Serial CT and MRI scan, performed along 11 years, showed a non-evolutive left thalamomegaly. 18-FDG PET showed reduced metabolic activity in the upper right temporal gyrus and in the ipsilateral thalamus. Thalamic asymmetry in our patient could be an occasional finding.
We report two cases of broncho-pleural fistula resulting from trans-diaphragmatic migration of the distal catheter of a ventriculo-peritoneal shunt. Relevant literature on thoracic complications of a ventriculo-peritoneal shunt is reviewed. The clinical presentation, diagnosis and management of V-P shunt-related broncho-pleural fistulae are discussed.


The objective of this review is to evaluate treatments for homonymous visual field defects (HVFDs). We distinguish between three treatments: visual restoration training (VRT), optical aids, and compensatory training. VRT is both the most ambitious and controversial approach, aiming to restore portions of the lost visual field. While early studies suggested that VRT can reduce the visual field defect, recent studies using more reliable means of monitoring the patients' fixation could not confirm this effect. Studies utilizing modern optical aids have reported some promising results, but the extent to which these aids can reliably reduce the patients' visual disability has yet to be confirmed. Compensatory approaches, which teach patients more effective ways of using their eyes, are currently the only form of treatment for which behavioral improvements have been demonstrated. However, with the exception of one study using a reading training, placebo-controlled clinical evaluation studies are lacking. It is also not yet clear whether the training benefits found in laboratory tasks lead to reliable improvements in activities of daily living and which of the various forms of compensatory training is the most promising. It is therefore too early to recommend any of the currently available treatment approaches.

The Wnt family of secreted signaling proteins regulates many aspects of animal development and the behavior of several types of stem cells, including embryonic stem (ES) cells. Activation of canonical Wnt signaling has been shown to either inhibit or promote the differentiation of ES cells into neurons, depending on the stage of differentiation. Here, we describe the expression of all 19 mouse Wnt genes during this process. Using the well-established retinoic acid induction protocol we found that all Wnt genes except Wnt8b are expressed as ES cells differentiate into neurons, many of them in dynamic patterns. The expression pattern of 12 Wnt genes was analyzed quantitatively at 2-day intervals throughout neural differentiation, showing that multiple Wnt genes are expressed at each stage. A large proportion of these, including both canonical and noncanonical Wnts, are expressed at highest levels during later stages of differentiation. The complexity of the patterns observed indicates that disentangling specific roles for individual Wnt genes in the differentiation process will be a significant challenge.


We study spike-burst neural activity and investigate its transitions to synchronized states under electrical coupling. Our reported results include the following: (1) Synchronization of spike-burst activity is a multi-time scale phenomenon and burst synchrony is easier to achieve than spike synchrony. (2) Synchrony of networks with time-delayed connections can be achieved at lower coupling strengths than within the same network with instantaneous couplings. (3) The introduction of parameter dispersion into the network destroys the existence of synchrony in the strict sense, but the network dynamics in major regimes of the parameter space can still be effectively captured by a mean field approach if the couplings are excitatory. Our results on synchronization of spiking networks are general of nature and will aid in the development of minimal models of neuronal populations. The latter are the building blocks of large scale brain networks relevant for cognitive processing.

Working memory is traditionally seen as being organised in a modular way with a central executive orchestrating at least two slave systems (phonological loop and visuospatial sketch pad). Neuroanatomical correlates of the visual and visuospatial subsystems and the central executive are discussed in this article. A series of experiments are presented yielding evidence for a differentiation into active and passive processing in working memory as well as their neuroanatomical correlates in the prefrontal cortex. Data, yielding evidence for an interaction and separation of visual and visuospatial working memory are presented and discussed. Further results are presented which suggest a convergence of these two systems with increasing working memory demands. The discussed findings will give new insight in the organisation of visual and visuospatial working memory on the anatomical level.
Whether two-digit numbers are represented holistically (each digit pair processed as one number) or compositionally (each digit pair processed separately as a decade digit and a unit digit) remains unresolved. Two experiments were conducted to examine the distance, magnitude, and SNARC effects in a number-matching task involving two-digit numbers. Forty undergraduates were asked to judge whether two two-digit numbers (presented serially in Experiment 1 and simultaneously in Experiment 2) were the same or not. Results showed that, when numbers were presented serially, unit digits did not make unique contributions to the magnitude and distance effects, supporting the holistic model. When numbers were presented simultaneously, unit digits made unique contributions, supporting the compositional model. The SNARC (Spatial-Numerical Association of Response Codes) effect was evident for the whole numbers and the decade digits, but not for the unit digits in both experiments, which indicates that two-digit numbers are represented on one mental number line. Taken together, these results suggested that the representation of two-digit numbers is on a single mental number line, but it depends on the stage of processing whether they are processed holistically or compositionally.
Recent research in neuroscience shows that observing attractive faces with direct gaze is more rewarding than observing attractive faces with averted gaze. On the basis of this research, it was hypothesized that object evaluations can be enhanced by associating them with attractive faces displaying direct gaze. In a conditioning paradigm, novel objects were associated with either attractive or unattractive female faces, either displaying direct or averted gaze. An affective priming task showed more positive automatic evaluations of objects that were paired with attractive faces with direct gaze than attractive faces with averted gaze and unattractive faces, irrespective of gaze direction. Participants' self-reported desire for the objects matched the affective priming data. The results are discussed against the background of recent findings on affective consequences of gaze cueing.
This research examined the influence of cue temporal predictability on inhibition of return (IOR). In exogenous attention experiments, the cue that summons attention is non-informative as to where the target will appear. However, it is predictive as to when it will appear. Because in most experiments there are equal numbers of trials for each cue-target interval (SOA--stimulus onset asynchrony), as time passes from the appearance of the cue, the probability of target presentation increases. Predictability was manipulated by using three SOA distributions: non-aging, aging and accelerated-aging. A robust IOR was found that was not modulated by temporal information within a trial. These results show that reflexive effects are relatively protected against modulation by higher volitional processes.
The spatial component of numerical and ordinal information has been explored in previous research. However, how such mapping emerges and how it is affected by the learning experience are issues still under debate. In the current study, we examined the orientation of the mental number line for different numerical notations (e.g., &quot;1&quot;, &quot;---&quot;, &quot;[symbol: see text]&quot;) in Chinese readers. Our data demonstrated that Arabic numbers are mentally aligned horizontally with a left-to-right directionality, while Chinese number words are aligned vertically with a top-to-bottom directionality. These findings indicate that different notations of the same concept have flexible mappings within space, which is plausibly shaped by the dominant context in which the numerical notations appear.

According to recent evidence, neurophysiological processes coupled to pain are closely related to the mechanisms of consciousness. This evidence is in accordance with findings that changes in states of consciousness during hypnosis or traumatic dissociation strongly affect conscious perception and experience of pain, and markedly influence brain functions. Past research indicates that painful experience may induce dissociated state and information about the experience may be stored or processed unconsciously. Reported findings suggest common neurophysiological mechanisms of pain and dissociation and point to a hypothesis of dissociation as a defense mechanism against psychological and physical pain that substantially influences functions of consciousness. The hypothesis is also supported by findings that information can be represented in the mind/brain without the subject's awareness. The findings of unconsciously present information suggest possible binding between conscious contents and self-functions that constitute self-representational dimensions of consciousness. The self-representation means that certain inner states of own body are interpreted as mental and somatic identity, while other bodily signals, currently not accessible to the dominant interpreter's access are dissociated and may be defined as subliminal self-representations. In conclusion, the neurophysiological aspects of consciousness and its integrative role in the therapy of painful traumatic memories are discussed.
Tzelgov and colleagues [Tzelgov, J., Meyer, J., and Henik, A. (1992). Automatic and intentional processing of numerical information. Journal of Experimental Psychology: Learning, Memory and Cognition, 18, 166-179.], offered the existence of the laterality effect as a post-hoc explanation for their results. According to this effect, numbers are classified automatically as small/large versus a standard point under autonomous processing of numerical information. However, the genuinity of the laterality effect was never examined, or was confounded with the numerical distance effect. In the current study, I controlled the numerical distance effect and observed that the laterality effect does exist, and affects the processing of automatic numerical information. The current results suggest that the laterality effect should be taken into account when using paradigms that require automatic numerical processing such as Stroop-like or priming tasks.
The processes mediating dynamic and flexible responding to rapidly changing task-environments are not well understood. In the present research we employ a Stroop procedure to clarify the contribution of context-sensitive control processes to online performance. In prior work Stroop interference varied as a function of probe location context, with larger Stroop interference occurring for contexts associated with a high proportion of congruent items [Crump, M. J., Gong, Z., &amp; Milliken, B. (2006). The context-specific proportion congruent stroop effect: location as a contextual cue. Psychonomic Bulletin &amp;Review, 13, 316-321.] Here, we demonstrate that this effect does not depend on awareness of the context manipulation, but that it can depend on attention to the predictive context dimension, and on the relative salience of the target and predictive context dimensions. We discuss the implications of our results for current theories of cognitive control.
This study investigates whether the conscious awareness of action is based on predictive motor control processes, or on inferential &quot;sense-making&quot; process that occur after the action itself. We investigated whether the temporal binding between perceptual estimates of operant actions and their effects depends on the occurrence of the effect (inferential processes) or on the prediction that the effect will occur (predictive processes). By varying the probability with which a simple manual action produced an auditory effect, we showed that both the actual and the predicted occurrence of the effect played a role. When predictability of the effect of action was low, temporal binding was found only on those trials where the auditory effect occurred. In contrast, when predictability of the effect of action was high, temporal binding occurred even on trials where the action produced no effect. Further analysis showed that the predictive process is modulated by recent experience of the action-effect relation. We conclude that the experience of action depends on a dynamic combination of predictive and inferential processes.

Using repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation (rTMS), we investigated the role of the left and right dorsolateral prefrontal cortex (DLPFC) in sentence comprehension. Subjects were required to judge which of the two pictures correctly matched the meaning of active and passive semantically reversible sentences (subject-verb-object); the incorrect picture did not match the sentence in term of lexical items (semantic task) or agent-patient structure (syntactic task). The subjects performed the task while a series of magnetic stimuli were applied to the left or right DLPFC. When rTMS was applied to the left DLPFC, the subjects' performance was delayed only for the semantic task, while rTMS applied to the right DLPFC slowed the processing of syntactic information. The results of this experiment provide direct evidence of a double dissociation between the rTMS effects and the type of task, which may reflect a differential hemispheric involvement of working memory resources during sentence comprehension.
This study investigates encyclopaedic numerical knowledge in a patient with a presumed left temporal dysfunction, associated with temporal lobe epilepsy. Encyclopaedic numbers are those used as nominal labels (such as in 'British Broadcasting Corporation - BBC 1' or 'Levis 501') to express familiar or historical dates (e.g., our birthday or the French revolution, 1789) and to indicate other general or autobiographical numerical information (e.g., Personal Identification numbers - PINs, post-codes, telephone numbers). We showed a dissociation between impaired processing of encyclopaedic numbers and preserved processing of non-encyclopaedic numbers (e.g., the larger between 54 and 65 or the result of '6 x 9'). This dissociation complements the existing data showing the reverse pattern of performance, namely an advantage for encyclopaedic compared to non-encyclopaedic numbers. These data add important information on an aspect of numerical processing that has not yet been systematically explored and reinforce the distinction between numerical and non-numerical knowledge in the semantic system.

Approaches to trance and possession in anthropology have tended to use outmoded models drawn from psychodynamic theory or treated such dissociative phenomena as purely discursive processes of attributing action and experience to agencies other than the self. Within psychology and psychiatry, understanding of dissociative disorders has been hindered by polemical &quot;either/or&quot; arguments: either dissociative disorders are real, spontaneous alterations in brain states that reflect basic neurobiological phenomena, or they are imaginary, socially constructed role performances dictated by interpersonal expectations, power dynamics and cultural scripts. In this paper, we outline an approach to dissociative phenomena, including trance, possession and spiritual and healing practices, that integrates the neuropsychological notions of underlying mechanism with sociocultural processes of the narrative construction and social presentation of the self. This integrative model, grounded in a cultural neuroscience, can advance ethnographic studies of dissociation and inform clinical approaches to dissociation through careful consideration of the impact of social context.

GABA(A) receptors have an age-adapted function in the brain. During early development, they mediate excitatory effects resulting in activation of calcium sensitive signaling processes that are important for the differentiation of the brain. In more mature stages of development and in adults, GABA(A) receptors transmit inhibitory signals. The maturation of GABA(A) signaling follows sex-specific patterns, which appear to also be important for the sexual differentiation of the brain. The inhibitory effects of GABA(A) receptor activation have been widely exploited in the treatment of conditions where neuronal silencing is necessary. For instance, drugs that target GABA(A) receptors are the mainstay of treatment of seizures. Recent evidence suggests however that the physiology and function of GABA(A) receptors changes in the brain of a subject that has epilepsy or status epilepticus.This review will summarize the physiology of and the developmental factors regulating the signaling and function of GABA(A) receptors; how these may change in the brain that has experienced prior seizures; what are the implications for the age and sex specific treatment of seizures and status epilepticus. Finally, the implications of these changes for the treatment of certain forms of medically refractory epilepsies and status epilepticus will be discussed.


Management of thrombosis of the dural sinus and cerebral veins (CVT) includes treatment of the underlying condition, antithrombotic treatment, symptomatic treatment, and the prevention or treatment of complications. Intravenous heparin or subcutaneous low-molecular-weight heparin should be used in acute CVT to prevent thrombus propagation and pulmonary embolism and to increase the chances of recanalization. Anticoagulation is safe and can be used in patients with acute CVT who have intracranial hemorrhagic lesions. Endovascular thrombolysis (with or without mechanical thrombus disruption) is an experimental treatment to be used in experienced centers for severe cases or patients who fail to improve on anticoagulation. Local thrombolysis is not useful in patients with large infarcts and impending herniation. In patients with severe headache and papilledema, intracranial hypertension can be reduced and symptoms relieved through a therapeutic lumbar puncture. Hemicraniectomy may be lifesaving in patients with parenchymal lesions leading to herniation. In patients with acute seizures and supratentorial lesions, antiepileptic drugs should be prescribed. Prophylactic use of these drugs can also be considered for patients with one of these risk factors but should be avoided in patients with neither of them. To reduce the risk of recurrent deep venous thrombosis of the limbs, vitamin K antagonists are given for a variable period depending on the patient's inherent risk of thrombosis, aiming at an International Normalized Ratio of 2 to 3.5. If CVT is related to a transient risk factor (eg, pregnancy, infection), we recommend anticoagulants for 3 months. In patients with idiopathic CVT or CVT associated with &quot;mild&quot; thrombophilia, the period of anticoagulation must be extended to 6 to 12 months. In patients with &quot;severe&quot; thrombophilia (eg, two or more prothrombotic abnormalities or antiphospholipid syndrome), anticoagulants should be given for life. Patients with persistent symptoms of increased intracranial hypertension, visual loss, or both can be treated with repeated lumbar punctures or a lumboperitoneal shunt. For the prevention of remote seizures, antiepileptic drugs are recommended for patients with seizures in the acute phase and for those who experience a seizure after the acute phase. These drugs can also be considered for patients without seizures who have supratentorial hemorrhagic lesions or motor deficits.
Information on the development and functions of rostral prefrontal cortex (PFC), or Brodmann area 10, has been gathered from different fields, from anatomical development to functional neuroimaging in adults, and put forward in relation to three particular cognitive and behavioural disorders. Rostral PFC is larger and has a lower cell density in humans than in other primates. It also has a large number of dendritic spines per cell and numerous connections to the supramodal cortex. These characteristics suggest that rostral PFC is likely to support processes of integration or coordination of inputs that are particularly developed in humans. The development of rostral PFC is prolonged, with decreases in grey matter and synaptic density continuing into adolescence. Functions attributed to rostral PFC, such as prospective memory, seem similarly to follow a prolonged development until adulthood. Neuroimaging studies have generally found a reduced recruitment of rostral PFC, for example in tasks requiring response inhibition, in adults compared with children or adolescents, which is consistent with maturation of grey matter. The examples of autism, attention-deficit-hyperactivity disorder, and schizophrenia show that rostral PFC could be affected in several disorders as a result of the susceptibility of its prolonged maturation to developmental abnormalities.
The rodent olfactory epithelium expresses more than 1000 odorant receptors (ORs) with distinct patterns, yet it is unclear how such patterns are established during development. In the current study, we investigated development of the expression patterns of different ORs in the septal organ, a small patch of olfactory epithelium predominantly expressing nine identified ORs. The presumptive septal organ first appears at about embryonic day 16 (E16) and it completely separates from the main olfactory epithelium (MOE) at about postnatal day 7 (P7). Using in situ hybridization, we quantified the densities of the septal organ neurons labeled by specific RNA probes of the nine abundant OR genes from E16 to postnatal 3 months. The results indicate that olfactory sensory neurons (OSNs) expressing different ORs have asynchronous temporal onsets. For instance, MOR256-17 and MOR236-1 cells are present in the septal organ at E16; however, MOR0-2 cells do not appear until P0. In addition, OSNs expressing different ORs show distinct developmental courses and reach their maximum densities at different stages ranging from E16 (e.g. MOR256-17) to 1 month (e.g. MOR256-3 and MOR235-1). Furthermore, early onset does not correlate with high abundance in adult. This study reveals a dynamic composition of the OSNs expressing different ORs in the developing olfactory epithelium.
Maternal licking of rat pups affects the development of the spinal nucleus of the bulbocavernosus (SNB), a sexually dimorphic motor nucleus that controls penile reflexes involved with copulation. Maternal licking influences SNB motoneurons, with reductions in licking producing decreased SNB number, size, and dendritic length in adulthood. Reduced maternal licking also produces deficits in adult male copulatory behavior. In this experiment, we used an artificial rearing paradigm to assess the potential role of tactile stimulation in mediating the effects of maternal licking on the SNB neuromuscular system. During artificial rearing, pups were stroked with a paintbrush to mimic maternal licking, receiving low, medium, or high levels of daily stimulation. In adulthood, ex copula penile reflex behavior was tested and the morphology of SNB motoneurons assessed. SNB motoneurons were retrogradely labeled with cholera toxin-conjugated HRP and dendritic arbor was reconstructed in three dimensions. Animals that received low levels of stimulation showed deficits in penile reflexes relative to maternally reared controls, including a longer latency to erection, fewer cup erections, and fewer erection clusters. SNB dendritic morphology was also shaped by stimulation condition, with animals that received low or medium levels of stimulation showing an average 27% reduction in dendritic length. In addition, several reflex behaviors were significantly correlated with dendritic length, including latency to first erection, percent of cup erections, and number of erection clusters. These results suggest that tactile stimulation provided by maternal licking mediates some of the effects of maternal care on the development of male copulatory behavior.
We investigated the effects of an enriched environment and/or basic fibroblast growth factor (bFGF) on recovery from neonatal frontal injury in rats. Rats received medial frontal lesions, or sham surgery, on postnatal day (P) 2/3. In the first set of experiments (Experiments 1 and 2), rats were housed in enriched environments that consisted of a large enclosure with multiple objects (or standard housing) for 90 days beginning at weaning (P22) or in adulthood (P110). In Experiment 3, the rats either received 7 days of subcutaneous bFGF beginning on the day after surgery or bFGF plus enriched housing beginning at weaning. After the 90-day housing period, the animals were tested on a spatial navigation task and a skilled reaching task. Early lesions of the medial frontal cortex caused severe impairments in spatial learning but this deficit was markedly reduced with enriched housing, bFGF, or a combination of both, with the latter being most effective. The housing effects varied with age, however: the earlier the experience began, the better the outcome. Enriched housing increased dendritic length in cortical pyramidal neurons, an effect that was greater in the lesion than the control animals, and enriched housing reversed the lesion-induced decrease in spine density. Enriched environment increased the thickness of the cortical mantle in both lesion and controls whereas bFGF had no effect. Experience thus can affect functional and anatomical outcome after early brain injury but the effects vary with age at experience and may be facilitated by treatment with bFGF.
Very-low-birth-weight infants are at much higher risk for cognitive and language delays but the nature of such deficits is not clearly understood. Given increasing rates of prematurity and infants born very-low-birth-weight, examination of mechanisms that underlie poorer developmental outcome is essential. We investigated language and cognitive abilities in very-low and normal birth-weight infants to determine whether performance differences were due to poorer global cognitive performance or to deficits in specific processing abilities. Thirty-two very-low and 32 normal birth-weight infants received visual and auditory-visual habituation recognition-memory tasks, and standardized language and cognitive assessments. Very-low-birth-weight infants performed more poorly on visual and auditory-visual habituation tasks and scored lower than controls on cognitive and language measures. These findings suggest that differences in language abilities in very-low-birth-weight children may be part of a global deficit that impacts many areas of cognitive functioning rather than a specific impairment in rapid auditory processing.
This article proposes a framework for theory and research on risk-taking that is informed by developmental neuroscience. Two fundamental questions motivate this review. First, why does risk-taking increase between childhood and adolescence? Second, why does risk-taking decline between adolescence and adulthood? Risk-taking increases between childhood and adolescence as a result of changes around the time of puberty in the brain's socio-emotional system leading to increased reward-seeking, especially in the presence of peers, fueled mainly by a dramatic remodeling of the brain's dopaminergic system. Risk-taking declines between adolescence and adulthood because of changes in the brain's cognitive control system - changes which improve individuals' capacity for self-regulation. These changes occur across adolescence and young adulthood and are seen in structural and functional changes within the prefrontal cortex and its connections to other brain regions. The differing timetables of these changes make mid-adolescence a time of heightened vulnerability to risky and reckless behavior.
The amyloid precursor protein (APP) plays a central role in Alzheimer's disease, but its actions in normal development are not well understood. Here, a tagged APP ectodomain was used to identify extracellular binding partners in developing chick brain. Prominent binding sites were seen in the olfactory bulb and on retinal axons growing into the optic tectum. Co-precipitation from these tissues and tandem mass spectrometry led to the identification of two associated proteins: contactin 4 and NgCAM. In vitro binding studies revealed direct interactions among multiple members of the APP and contactin protein families. Levels of the APP processing fragment, CTFalpha, were modulated by both contactin 4 and NgCAM. In the developing retinotectal system, APP, contactin 4 and NgCAM are expressed in the retina and tectum in suitable locations to interact. Functional assays revealed regulatory effects of both APP and contactin 4 on NgCAM-dependent growth of cultured retinal axons, demonstrating specific functional interactions among these proteins. These studies identify novel binding and functional interactions among proteins of the APP, contactin and L1CAM families, with general implications for mechanisms of APP action in neural development and disease.
Myoblast differentiation is essential to skeletal muscle formation and repair. The earliest detectable event leading to human myoblast differentiation is an upregulation of Kir2.1 channel activity, which causes a negative shift (hyperpolarization) of the resting potential of myoblasts. After exploring various mechanisms, we found that this upregulation of Kir2.1 was due to dephosphorylation of the channel itself. Application of genistein, a tyrosine kinase inhibitor, increased Kir2.1 activity and triggered the differentiation process, whereas application of bpV(Phen), a tyrosine phosphatase inhibitor, had the opposite effects. We could show that increased Kir2.1 activity requires dephosphorylation of tyrosine 242; replacing this tyrosine in Kir2.1 by a phenylalanine abolished inhibition by bpV(Phen). Finally, we found that the level of tyrosine phosphorylation in endogenous Kir2.1 channels is considerably reduced during differentiation when compared with proliferation. We propose that Kir2.1 channels are already present at the membrane of proliferating, undifferentiated human myoblasts but in a silent state, and that Kir2.1 tyrosine 242 dephosphorylation triggers differentiation.

The novel gene dia2 (differentiation-associated gene 2) was originally isolated as a gene expressed specifically in response to initial differentiation of Dictyostelium discoideum Ax-2 cells. Using dia2(AS) cells in which the dia2 expression was inactivated by the antisense RNA method, DIA2 protein was found to be required for cAMP signaling during cell aggregation. During late development, the DIA2 protein changed its location from the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) to prespore-specific vacuoles (PSVs) that are specifically present in prespore cells of the slug. In differentiating prestalk cells, however, DIA2 was found to be nearly lost from the cells. Importantly, exocytosis of PSVs from prespore cells and the subsequent spore differentiation were almost completely impaired in dia2(AS) cells. In addition, spore induction by externally applied 8-bromo cAMP was significantly suppressed in dia2(AS) cells. Taken together, these results strongly suggested that DIA2 might be closely involved in cAMP signaling and spore differentiation as well as in the initiation of differentiation during Dictyostelium development.
Human MutT homolog (hMTH1) hydrolyzes oxidized purine nucleoside triphosphates to monophosphates, thereby avoiding incorporation of such oxidized purines into DNA or RNA. We examined whether hMTH1 prevents cellular dysfunction induced by sodium nitroprusside, a spontaneous NO donor. Exposure to sodium nitroprusside caused an 8-oxoguanine (8-oxoG) buildup in DNA of proliferating MTH1-null cells which underwent mitochondrial degeneration and subsequently died. Quiescent MTH1-null cells also died with 8-oxoG buildup but only when the buildup affected mitochondrial and not nuclear DNA. In both proliferative and quiescent conditions, the accumulation of 8-oxoG in DNA and cell death was effectively prevented by hMTH1. Knockdown of MUTYH in quiescent MTH1-null cells significantly prevented the cell death, suggesting that 8-oxoG incorporated into mitochondrial DNA is a main cause of this form of cell death. To verify this possibility, an artificially modified hMTH1, namely mTP-EGFP-hMTH1, which localizes exclusively in mitochondria, was expressed in MTH1-null cells. mTP-EGFP-hMTH1 selectively prevented buildup of 8-oxoG in mitochondrial but not nuclear DNA after exposure of proliferating cells to sodium nitroprusside, and also efficiently prevented cell death. We thus concluded that exposure of cells to sodium nitroprusside causes oxidation of mitochondrial deoxynucleotide pools, and that buildup of oxidized bases in mitochondrial DNA initiates cell death.
[(3)H]Cimetidine (3HCIM) specifically binds to an unidentified site in the rat brain. Because recently described ligands for this site have pharmacological activity, 3HCIM binding was characterized. 3HCIM binding was saturable, heat-labile, and distinct from the histamine H(2) receptor. To test the hypothesis that 3HCIM binds to a cytochrome P450 (P450), the effects of nonselective and isoform-selective P450 inhibitors were studied. The heme inhibitor KCN and the nonselective P450 inhibitor metyrapone both produced complete, concentration-dependent inhibition of 3HCIM binding (K(i) = 1.3 mM and 11.9 muM, respectively). Binding was largely unaffected by inhibitors of CYP1A2, 2B6, 2C8, 2C9, 2D6, 2E1, and 19A1 but was eliminated by inhibitors of CYP2C19 (tranylcypromine) and CYP3A4 (ketoconazole). Synthesis and testing of CC11 [4(5)-(benzylthiomethyl)-1H-imidazole] and CC12 [4(5)-((4-iodobenzyl)-thiomethyl)-1H-imidazole] confirmed both drugs to be high-affinity inhibitors of 3HCIM binding. On recombinant human P450s, CC12 was a potent inhibitor of CYP2B6 (IC(50) = 11.7 nM), CYP2C19 (51.4 nM), and CYP19A1 (140.7 nM) and had a range of activities (100-494 nM) on nine other isoforms. Although the 3HCIM binding site pharmacologically resembles some P450s, eight recombinant human P450s and three recombinant rat P450s did not exhibit 3HCIM binding. Inhibition by KCN and metyrapone suggests that 3HCIM binds to a heme-containing brain protein (possibly a P450). However, results with selective P450 inhibitors, recombinant P450 isoforms, and a P450 antibody did not identify a 3HCIM-binding P450 isoform. Finally, CC12 is a new, potent inhibitor of CYP2B6 and CYP2C19 that may be a valuable tool for P450 research.


A significant proportion of pituitary macroadenomas, and by definition all microadenomas, regain trophic stability after an initial period of deregulated growth. Classical proto-oncogene activation and tumor suppressor mutation are rarely responsible, and no histologic or molecular markers reliably predict behavior. GNAS1 activation and the mutations associated with multiple endocrine neoplasia type 1 and Carney complex, aryl hydrocarbon receptor interacting protein gene mutations, and a narrowing region of chromosome 11q13 in familial isolated acromegaly together account for such a small proportion of pituitary adenomas that the pituitary adenoma pathogenic epiphany is surely yet to come.

In seasonal species, various physiological processes including reproduction are organized by photoperiod via melatonin, but the mechanisms of melatonin action are still unknown. In birds, the peptide gonadotropin-inhibiting hormone (GnIH) has been shown to have inhibitory effects on reproductive activity and displays seasonal changes of expression. Here we present evidence in mammals that the gene orthologous to GnIH, the RFamide-related peptide (RFRP) gene, expressed in the mediobasal hypothalamus, is strongly regulated by the length of the photoperiod, via melatonin. The level of RFRP mRNA and the number of RFRP-immunoreactive cell bodies were reduced in sexually quiescent Syrian and Siberian hamsters acclimated to short-day photoperiod (SD) compared with sexually active animals maintained under long-day photoperiod (LD). This was contrasted in the laboratory Wistar rat, a non-photoperiodic breeder, in which no evidence for RFRP photoperiodic modulation was seen. In Syrian hamsters, the reduction of RFRP expression in SD was independent from secondary changes in gonadal steroids. By contrast, the photoperiodic variation of RFRP expression was abolished in pinealectomized hamsters, and injections of LD hamsters with melatonin for 60 d provoked inhibition of RFRP expression down to SD levels, indicating that the regulation is dependent on melatonin. Altogether, these results demonstrate that in these hamster species, the RFRP neurons are photoperiodically modulated via a melatonin-dependent process. These observations raise questions on the role of RFRP as a general inhibitor of reproduction and evoke new perspectives for understanding how melatonin controls seasonal processes via hypothalamic targets.
In the new USEPA cancer risk assessment guidelines, mode of action (MoA) information, combined with a determination of whether or not a chemical is mutagenic, plays an important role in determining whether a linear or nonlinear approach should be used to estimate cancer risks at low doses. In this article, carbon tetrachloride (CT) is used as an example to illustrate how mixed genotoxicity data can be evaluated and used to identify a likely MoA. CT is essentially negative in inducing gene mutations in Salmonella, but is consistently positive in inducing recombination and aneuploidy in fungi. Negative or equivocal results were seen in most in vitro and in vivo studies in mammals, including mutation studies in transgenic mice. However, DNA adducts, primarily those derived from oxidation- and lipid-peroxidation-derived products as well as DNA double-strand breaks and micronucleated cells, have been seen repeatedly in the liver of CT-treated animals. On the basis of the weight of evidence, CT should not be considered a directly mutagenic agent. Mutagenic as well as other genotoxic effects, as they occur, will most likely be generated through indirect mechanisms resulting from oxidative and lipid peroxidative damage and/or damage occurring during necrosis or apoptosis. As key events in this process are expected to occur in a nonlinear fashion, the expected relationship between CT dose and carcinogenic response in the liver is likely to be nonlinear with a steep dose response. This conclusion is consistent with rodent cancer bioassay results in which steep nonlinear dose responses have been seen.
Polychlorinated biphenyl (PCB) congeners exhibit a broad range of adverse biological effects including neurotoxicity. The mechanisms by which PCBs cause neurotoxic effects are still not completely understood. The blood-brain barrier (BBB) is a physical and metabolic barrier separating brain microenvironment from the peripheral circulation and is mainly composed of endothelial cells connected by tight junctions. We examined the effects of several highly-chlorinated PCB congeners on expression of tight junction proteins in human brain endothelial cells. Treatment for 24 h with selective PCB congeners disrupted expression of the cytosolic scaffold proteins of tight junctions, such as zonula occludens (ZO)-1, ZO-2, and AF6. In contrast, PCB exposure did not alter expression of integral membrane proteins, junctional adhesion molecule-A (JAM-A), and claudin-1. Based on these data, we suggest that PCB-mediated selective alterations of tight junction protein expression may contribute to their neurotoxic effects in the central nervous system.
Exposure to specific congeners of polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs) can induce proinflammatory alterations, which may contribute to the formation of blood-borne tumor metastasis. The main aim of the present study was to establish an experimental model of PCB exposure in which PCBs are administered by oral gavage, which resembles the human exposure through the food chain. To determine structure-function relationship, we studied induction of inflammatory responses in the livers, lungs and brains of mice treated with PCB77 (a major coplanar PCB), PCB104 (a non-coplanar PCB with multiple ortho-chlorine substituents), and PCB153 (a major non-coplanar PCB) after a single gavage dose (150 mol/kg body weight). The strongest expression of proinflammatory proteins occurred 24 h following the PCB administration independent of the class of PCB congeners. These data indicate that food-chain exposure to PCBs can induce proinflammatory mediators in organs that are potential targets for PCB-induced toxicity.

Auditory aura is a rare symptom in focal epilepsy. It has been described in autosomal dominant partial epilepsy with auditory features, but is, in general, poorly documented. We report on a 7-year-old, right-handed boy, who suffered seizures characterized by positive auditory illusions with verbal and gestural automatisms and noticeable attempts at covering his ears. Clinical evaluation and video-recording of the seizures, confirmed that most of the ictal behavior was deliberately directed at trying to prevent the unpleasant sensations reaching his ears. [Published with video sequences].

Personalized medicine is still in its infancy concerning drug development in neuropsychopharmacology. Adequate biomarkers with clinical relevance to drug response and/or tolerability and safety largely remain to be identified. Possibly, this kind of personalized medicine will first gain clinical relevance in the dementias. The clinical relevance of the genotyping of drug-metabolizing enzymes as suggested by drug licensing authorities for the pharmacokinetic evaluation of medicinal products needs to be proven in sound clinical trials.
Recent findings of gene-environment interaction on child and adolescent anxiety generate interest in mechanisms through which genetic risks are expressed. Current findings from neuroscience suggest avenues for exploring putative mechanisms. Specifically recent documentations of abnormality in brain function among anxious adolescents may reflect the end-result of gene expression. In turn these inherited predispositions may increase the likelihood of psychopathology in the presence of stress. The aim of the current article is to consider putative mechanisms reflecting genetic sensitivity to the environment (G x E). Thus we review data implicating biased processing of threat information and anomalies in brain circuitry in the expression of pediatric anxiety. These data suggest that links across development among genes, brain, psychological processes, and behavior are far from established. Accordingly, the article proposes strategies for examining these links. Exploring these relationships during development is crucial, given that these early life processes may potentially shape longer-term patterns of emotional behavior, and therefore life-long trajectories of anxiety.

Biometals such as copper and zinc have an important role in Alzheimer's disease (AD). Accumulating evidence indicates that copper homeostasis is altered in AD brain with elevated extracellular and low intracellular copper levels. Studies in animals and cell cultures have suggested that increasing intracellular copper can ameliorate AD-like pathology including amyloid deposition and tau phosphorylation. Modulating copper homeostasis can also improve cognitive function in animal models of AD. Treatments are now being developed that may result in redistribution of copper within the brain. Metal ligands such as clioquinol (CQ), DP-109 or pyrrolidine dithiocarbamate (PDTC) have shown promising results in animal models of AD, however, the actual mode of action in vivo has not been fully determined. We previously reported that CQ-metal complexes were able to increase intracellular copper levels in vitro. This resulted in stimulation of phosphoinositol-3-kinase activity and mitogen activated protein kinases (MAPK). Increased kinase activity resulted in up-regulated matrix metalloprotease (MMP2 and MMP3) activity resulting in enhanced degradation of secreted A beta. These findings are consistent with previous studies reporting metal-mediated activation of MAPKs and MMPs. How this activation occurs is unknown but evidence suggests that copper may be able to activate membrane receptors such as the epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) and result in downstream activation of MAPK pathways. This has been supported by studies showing metal-mediated activation of EGFR through ligand-independent processes in a number of cell-types. Our initial studies reveal that copper complexes can in fact activate EGFR. However, further studies are necessary to determine if metal complexes such as CQ-copper induce up-regulation of A beta-degrading MMP activity through this mechanism. Elucidation of this pathway may have important implications for the development of metal ligand based therapeutics for treatment of AD and other neurodegenerative disorders.

The redox active transition metals Cu2+ and Fe3+ have been proposed as important factors in the neuropathology of Alzheimer's disease (AD) and other neurodegenerative diseases. The field that has been called metallo-neurobiology has expanded greatly in the last 20 years. Although there is much experimental evidence on various aspects of the interaction between these metals and the molecular and supramolecular components of the neuropil and the structural biology of metal binding, we are far from fully understanding the part this interaction plays in the normal CNS and in neurodegeneration. This understanding is needed if we are to move beyond the promising, but semi-empirical, approaches to therapies of these diseases based on metal attenuation.
The placebo effect has intrigued scientists since it was proposed. The debate has now centered on how it works. Significant progress has been made and most of our knowledge about the neurobiological mechanisms comes from the field of pain and analgesia. The appropriateness of the experimental/clinical paradigms is crucial when we want to investigate the mechanisms of the placebo phenomenon. Recently, functional imaging techniques, such as positron emission tomography, magnetic resonance imaging, and electro/magnetoencephalography have also given the opportunity to define the neuroanatomical bases of placebo analgesia. This work systematically reviews the literature that deals with placebo analgesia, emphasizing both the methodological aspects and the neurobiological advances. The understanding of placebo mechanisms is fundamental and necessary to identify ways of accessing and harnessing these mechanisms in clinical practice to the patient's benefit.
Myeloid dendritic cells (DC) and macrophages evolve from a common precursor. However, factors controlling monocyte differentiation toward DC or macrophages are poorly defined. We report that the surface density of the GM-CSF receptor (GM-CSFR) alpha subunit in human peripheral blood monocytes varies among donors. Although no correlation was found between the extent of GM-CSFR and monocyte differentiation into DC driven by GM-CSF and IL-4, GM-CSFR expression strongly influenced the generation of CD1a(+) dendritic-like cells in the absence of IL-4. CD1a(+) cells generated in the presence of GM-CSF express CD40, CD80, MHC class I and II, DC-SIGN, MR, CCR5, and partially retain CD14 expression. Interestingly, they spontaneously induce the expansion of CD4(+) and CD8(+) allogeneic T lymphocytes producing IFN-gamma, and migrate toward CCL4 and CCL19. Upon stimulation with TLR ligands, they acquire the phenotypic features of mature DC. In contrast, the allostimulatory capacity is not further increased upon LPS activation. However, by blocking LPS-induced IL-10, a higher T cell proliferative response and IL-12 production were observed. Interestingly, IL-23 secretion was not affected by endogenous IL-10. These results highlight the importance of GM-CSFR expression in monocytes for cytokine-induced DC generation and point to GM-CSF as a direct player in the generation of functionally distinct DC.
The mRNA expression of eight different cytokines in peripheral blood mononuclear cells in 19 individuals with multiple sclerosis was determined at baseline and after 6 months of open-label treatment with natalizumab. Cellular expression of tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNFalpha) mRNA and number of cells secreting TNFalpha and interferon gamma protein significantly increased over the 6 months. Kurtzke EDSS scores improved because of the resolution of relapses, but not fatigue severity scores. The observed increases in systemic proinflammatory cytokines by natalizumab treatment are discussed in relation to fatigue and systemic immunity.
The aim of this study was to compare the clinically based prevalence of myasthenia gravis (MG) with the prevalence of laboratory-confirmed cases. All patients with a diagnosis of MG living in Estonia as on 1 January 1997 were asked to participate in re-examination. The criteria for laboratory-supported MG were weakness and rapid fatigue and a positive outcome of at least one of three laboratory tests: (i) blinded acetylcholinesterase inhibitor test; (ii) determination of antibodies to acetylcholine receptor and (iii) neurophysiological examination using repetitive nerve stimulation and single-fibre EMG. Eighty-nine patients were re-examined and 70 patients (79%) fulfilled the criteria of laboratory-supported MG. The corrected prevalence ratio was 78 per million. In the non-confirmed MG group, there was more women (92%) than men (43%) whose diagnosis was established within 1 year from onset of symptoms (P = 0.016). In all women with non-confirmed MG the diagnosis was established within 1 year from referral to the physician, whereas 68% of women with confirmed MG was diagnosed within 1 year (P &lt; 0.0001). Thus, we conclude that, in Estonia the prevalence of MG based on medical records seems overestimated by 21% and women are at higher risk of obtaining an uncertain diagnosis of MG.
The use of rtPA in stroke patients aged &gt;80 years remains controversial and it is debated whether there are sex-based differences in the response to rtPA. We assessed the clinical value of thrombolytic therapy in patients aged &gt;80 years (elderly group) in comparison with a non-elderly group, and evaluated the existence of sex differences in the response to rtPA. All consecutive patients (n = 157) treated with rtPA were prospectively assessed since July 2001, including 49 elderly patients who fulfilled the National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke (NINDS) criteria. Changes of the National Institute of Health Stroke Scale (NIHSS) score at 1 h, 24 h, and 7 days after rtPA administration, favourable outcome at day 90 [(modified Rankin Scale) mRS 0-1, or 2 if mRS = 2 before the stroke], symptomatic bleedings, and death rates were compared between elderly and non-elderly patients. Using logistic regression, baseline NIHSS score [odds ratio (OR) 0.59, 95% confidence interval (CI) 0.41-0.84] was an independent predictor of favourable outcome, but not sex (OR 0.72, 95% CI 0.33-1.56), or age &gt;80 years (OR 0.74, 95% CI 0.32-1.70). The rates of clinical improvement, mortality, or symptomatic CNS bleeding were also unrelated to age and sex. In conclusion, the response to IV rtPA is not impaired in elderly stroke patients and male and female are equally responsive.
Segregation of auditory inputs into meaningful acoustic groups is a key element of auditory scene analysis. Previously, we showed that two interwoven sets of tones differing widely along multiple feature dimensions (duration, pitch and location) were pre-attentively separated into different groups, and that tones separated in this manner did not elicit the mismatch negativity component with respect to each other. Grouping was studied with human subjects using a stimulus rate too slow to induce streaming. Here, we varied the separation of tone sequences along a single feature dimension, i.e. frequency. Frequency differences were either 24 Hz (small) or 1054 Hz (large). Two relatively slow stimulus rates were used (2.7 or 1 tone/s) to explicitly investigate grouping outside the so-called 'streaming effect', which requires rates of about 4 tones/s or faster. Two tones were presented in a quasi-random manner with embedded trains of one to four identical tones in a row. Deviants were defined as frequency switches after trains of four identical tones. Mismatch negativity was only elicited for small frequency switches at the slower stimulation rate. The data indicate that pre-attentive grouping of tones occurred when the frequency difference that separated them was large, regardless of stimulation rate. For small frequency differences, inputs were only grouped separately when the stimulation rate was relatively fast.
Some of the most complex auditory neurons known are found in the songbird forebrain, throughout the 'song system', including its basal ganglia nucleus Area X. These cells are selective for the temporal order of the bird's own song (BOS): they typically respond strongly to BOS, but more weakly when the syllable sequence of BOS is played in reverse order (roBOS), indicating that they integrate auditory information over more than single syllables. Here, studying the zebra finch Area X, we found that order selectivity strongly depends on the mean syllable duration of individual songs, decreasing markedly as this duration approaches 150-200 ms. Simply segmenting the same songs differently, creating an increase in average syllable length towards 150 ms, caused a similar decrease in order selectivity. This suggests that song neurons integrate acoustic information over a relatively limited time window, predominantly less than 150 ms. We provided further support for this by showing that a significant fraction of Area X order selectivity was accounted for by the acoustic similarity between each BOS and roBOS, measured using cross-correlation with fixed window sizes, but only when the correlation windows were at least 50 ms and no more than 200 ms long. All the same findings were evident in birds raised without tutor exposure, indicating that tutor learning has little effect on neural mechanisms underlying song temporal selectivity. Our results suggest that song-selective neurons encode much of the temporal context of song using a short, constant time window that is conserved across differences in songs, birds and learning.
The median preoptic nucleus (MnPO) is an integrator site for the chemosensory and neural signals induced by a perturbation in the hydromineral balance, and it is highly involved in controlling fluid and electrolyte ingestion. Here, we hypothesize that opioid peptides, previously recognized to control ingestive behaviors, may regulate the excitability of MnPO neurons and that this regulatory action may depend on the natriuric (Na(+)) status of body fluid compartments. Our results show that activation of mu-, but not delta-, opioid receptors (OR) triggered a membrane hyperpolarization by recruiting a G-protein-regulated inward-rectifier K(+) (GIRK) conductance in 41% of the neurons tested. Interestingly, 24 h Na(+) depletion strengthened this opioid-mediated control of neuronal excitability. In Na(+)-depleted animals, the neuronal population displaying the mu-OR-induced hyperpolarization expanded to 60% (Z-test, P = 0.012), whereas Na(+) repletion restored this population to the control level (39%; Z-test, P = 0.037). Among the neurons displaying mu-OR-induced hyperpolarization, Na(+) depletion specifically increased the neuronal population responsive to variation in ambient Na(+) (from 27% to 43%; Z-test, P = 0.029). In contrast, Na(+) repletion dramatically reduced the population that was unresponsive to Na(+) (from 17% to 3%; Z-test, P = 0.031). Neither the basic properties of the neurons nor the characteristics of the mu-OR-induced response were altered by the body Na(+) challenge. Our results indicate that an episode of Na(+) depletion/Na(+) repletion modifies the organization of the opioid-sensitive network of the MnPO. Such network plasticity might be related to the avid salt ingestion triggered by repeated Na(+) depletion.
This study assessed enkephalin expression induced by intra-articular application of recombinant, enkephalin-encoding herpes virus (HSV-1) and the impact of expression on nociceptive behaviours and synovial lining inflammation in arthritic rats. Replication-conditional HSV-1 recombinant vectors with cDNA encoding preproenkephalin (HSV-ENK), or control transgene beta-galactosidase cDNA (HSV-beta-gal; control) were injected into knee joints with complete Freund's adjuvant (CFA). Joint temperatures, circumferences and nociceptive behaviours were monitored on days 0, 7, 14 and 21 post CFA and vector treatments. Lumbar (L4-6) dorsal root ganglia (DRG) and spinal cords were immunostained for met-enkephalin (met-ENK), beta-gal, HSV-1 proteins and Fos. Joint tissues were immunostained for met-ENK, HSV-1 proteins, and inflammatory mediators Regulated on Activation, Normal T-cell Expressed and Secreted (RANTES) and cyclo-oxygenase-2, or stained with haematoxylin and eosin for histopathology. Compared to exuberant synovial hypertrophy and inflammatory cell infiltration seen in arthritic rats treated with CFA only or CFA and HSV-beta-gal, the CFA- and HSV-ENK-treated arthritic rats had: (i) striking preservation of synovial membrane cytoarchitecture with minimal inflammatory cell infiltrates; (ii) significantly improved nociceptive behavioural responses to mechanical and thermal stimuli; (iii) normalized Fos staining in lumbar dorsal horn; and (iv) significantly increased met-ENK staining in ipsilateral synovial tissue, lumbar DRG and spinal cord. The HSV-1 and transgene product expression were confined to ipsilateral lumbar DRG (HSV-1, met-ENK, beta-gal). Only transgene product (met-ENK and beta-gal) was seen in lumbar spinal cord sections. Targeted delivery of enkephalin-encoding HSV-1 vector generated safe, sustained opioid-induced analgesia with protective anti-inflammatory blunting in rat inflammatory arthritis.
The neurogenic subventricular zone (SVZ) of the lateral ventricle is a potential source for neuronal replacement in the postnatal or adult neocortex after injury. Here we present a novel model system to directly explore the cellular mechanisms of this process. In order to visualize directed migration from the SVZ towards the cortex, we transplanted green fluorescent protein-labeled progenitor/stem cells into the SVZ of newborn rats. At 2 days after transplantation, we generated organotypic slice cultures and applied fluorescent time-lapse imaging to explore directly the migration and integration of donor cells into the host tissue for up to 2 weeks. Our studies revealed that subventricular grafts provide a significant number of immature neurons to neocortical regions. In the cortex, immature neurons first migrate radially towards the pial surface and then differentiate into GABAergic interneurons. We conclude that our model system presents a novel and effective experimental paradigm to evaluate the recruitment of SVZ-derived neurons into the postnatal cortex, a phenomenon that may represent a potential route for cortical repair.
The midbrain periaqueductal gray (PAG) and its descending projections to the rostral ventromedial medulla (RVM) provides an essential neural circuit for the antinociceptive effects of opiates, and has been implicated in the development of tolerance to morphine. Systemic morphine activates a greater proportion of PAG-RVM neurons in male vs female rats, and induces tolerance to a greater degree in males. The present studies tested the hypothesis that if the PAG-RVM pathway is essential for the development of tolerance, then: (i) morphine activation of the PAG-RVM pathway should decline as tolerance develops; and (ii) sex differences in the development of tolerance to morphine should be reflected as a greater decline in the activation of this pathway in males. These hypotheses were tested in male and female rats using behavioral testing (hot-plate) and immunohistochemistry to map the activation of the PAG-RVM pathway following repeated morphine administration (5 mg/kg; s.c.). In males, morphine potency decreased from 3.0 to 6.3 mg/kg, indicating tolerance, and this was paralleled by a steady decline in the percentage of PAG-RVM output neurons activated by morphine. In contrast, in females the shift in morphine potency was significantly attenuated (D(50) 6-8.3 mg/kg), and no significant difference in the activity of PAG-RVM output neurons was noted. These results demonstrate that the greater development of tolerance to morphine administration in male rats corresponds with a significant reduction in the activation of the PAG-RVM circuit and suggest a central role for the PAG in the development of tolerance to morphine.
Mushroom bodies (MBs), one of the central brain structures in Drosophila melanogaster, are involved in several cognitive behaviors, such as olfactory learning and memory, visual context generalization, choice behavior facing conflicting cues. Attention is a cognitive behavior, and it facilitates a focus on the attended event while filtering out irrelevant events, thereby allowing more rapid and accurate reactions at a lower threshold in primates. Using the visual orientation paradigm in a flight simulator, we observed that MBs modulate salience-based selective fixation behavior, which resembles attention in primates to a certain degree. We found that the fixation ability of MB-deficient flies was significantly reduced when the contrast levels were lowered as well as when a certain amount of background noise was applied. Moreover, MB-deficient flies exhibited poor object fixation ability in the presence of an olfactory 'distracter'. Furthermore, during visual selection among multiple objects of different contrast, flies with MBs were able to 'pop-out' of the most salient object in a three-object selection paradigm. Finally, we determined that flies exhibited cross-modal synergistic integration between olfactory and visual signals during object-fixation behavior, which was independent of MBs. Taken together, our findings suggest that MBs do not contribute to cross-modal synergetic integration between olfactory and visual signals; instead, they confer sensory gain control and inhibitory gating in flies, this property allows entry of the salient signal as well as filters out background noise and irrelevant signals.
A central question in chemical senses is the way that odorant molecules are represented in the brain. To date, many studies, when taken together, suggest that structural features of the molecules are represented through a spatio-temporal pattern of activation in the olfactory bulb (OB), in both glomerular and mitral cell layers. Mitral/tufted cells interact with a large population of inhibitory interneurons resulting in a temporal patterning of bulbar local field potential (LFP) activity. We investigated the possibility that molecular features could determine the temporal pattern of LFP oscillatory activity in the OB. For this purpose, we recorded the LFPs in the OB of urethane-anesthetized, freely breathing rats in response to series of aliphatic odorants varying subtly in carbon-chain length or functional group. In concordance with our previous reports, we found that odors evoked oscillatory activity in the LFP signal in both the beta and gamma frequency bands. Analysis of LFP oscillations revealed that, although molecular features have almost no influence on the intrinsic characteristics of LFP oscillations, they influence the temporal patterning of bulbar oscillations. Alcohol family odors rarely evoke gamma oscillations, whereas ester family odors rather induce oscillatory patterns showing beta/gamma alternation. Moreover, for molecules with the same functional group, the probability of gamma occurrence is correlated to the vapor pressure of the odor. The significance of the relation between odorant features and oscillatory regimes along with their functional relevance are discussed.
Perineuronal nets (PNNs) are dense extracellular matrix (ECM) structures that form around many neuronal cell bodies and dendrites late in development. They contain several chondroitin sulphate proteoglycans (CSPGs), hyaluronan, link proteins and tenascin-R. Their time of appearance correlates with the ending of the critical period for plasticity, and they have been implicated in this process. The distribution of PNNs in the spinal cord was examined using Wisteria floribunda agglutinin lectin and staining for chondroitin sulphate stubs after chondroitinase digestion. Double labelling with the neuronal marker, NeuN, showed that PNNs were present surrounding approximately 30% of motoneurons in the ventral horn, 50% of large interneurons in the intermediate grey and 20% of neurons in the dorsal horn. These PNNs formed in the second week of postnatal development. Immunohistochemical staining demonstrated that the PNNs contain a mixture of CSPGs, hyaluronan, link proteins and tenascin-R. Of the CSPGs, aggrecan was present in all PNNs while neurocan, versican and phosphacan/RPTPbeta were present in some but not all PNNs. In situ hybridization showed that aggrecan and cartilage link protein (CRTL 1) and brain link protein-2 (BRAL 2) are produced by neurons. PNN-bearing neurons express hyaluronan synthase, and this enzyme and phosphacan/RPTPbeta may attach PNNs to the cell surface. During postnatal development the expression of link protein and aggrecan mRNA is up-regulated at the time of PNN formation, and these molecules may therefore trigger their formation.
A negative outcome can have motivational and emotional consequences on its own (absolute loss) or in comparison to alternative, better, outcomes (relative loss). The consequences of incurring a loss are moderated by personality factors such as neuroticism and introversion. However, the neuronal basis of this moderation is unknown. Here we investigated the neuronal basis of loss processing and personality with functional magnetic resonance imaging in a choice task. We separated absolute and relative financial loss by sequentially revealing the chosen and unchosen outcomes. With increasing neuroticism, activity in the left lateral orbitofrontal cortex (OFC) preferentially reflected relative rather than absolute losses. Conversely, with increasing introversion, activity in the right lateral OFC preferentially reflected absolute rather than relative losses. These results suggest that personality affects loss-related processing through the lateral OFC, and propose a dissociation of personality dimension and loss type on the neuronal level.
The structure of the basal ganglia appears to be conserved throughout vertebrate evolution, with characteristic cellular and transmitter components in each area, and the same types of afferent input. As described in rodents and primates, depletion of the striatal dopamine results in characteristic motor deficits. To explore if this role of the basal ganglia in modulating motor function was present early in vertebrate evolution, we investigated here the effects of striatal dopamine depletion in the lamprey, a cyclostome, which diverged from the main vertebrate line around 560 million years ago. The lamprey striatum contains the same cellular elements as found in mammals, and receives the same types of input, including a prominent dopamine innervation. We show here that MPTP (1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine; 100 mg/kg i.p.), a neurotoxin, depletes forebrain and striatal dopamine levels in lamprey to 15% of control values, and has profound effects on motor performance. Twenty-four and 48 h after MPTP injection, lampreys demonstrated marked reductions in spontaneous swimming and the duration of each swimming episode. Impairments in the ability to initiate movements were shown by a decreased rate of initiation. Furthermore, the initiation and maintenance of locomotion induced by olfactory mucosa stimulation was severely impaired, as was the coordination of different motor tasks. These deficits were ameliorated by the dopamine agonist apomorphine. The motor deficits arising after striatal dopamine depletion are thus qualitatively similar in cyclostomes and mammals. The role of the dopamine innervation of the striatum thus appears to be conserved throughout vertebrate evolution.
A fundamental property of small neuronal ensembles is their ability to be selectively activated by distinct stimuli. One cellular mechanism by which neurons achieve this input selectivity is by modulating the temporal dynamics of excitation and inhibition. We explored the interplay of excitation and inhibition in synapses between pyramidal neurons of cornu ammonis field 3 of the hippocampal formation (CA3) in cultured rat hippocampal slices, where activation of a single excitatory cell can readily recruit local interneurons. Simultaneous whole-cell recordings from pairs of CA3 pyramidal neurons revealed that the strength of connections was neither uniform nor balanced. Rather, stimulation of presynaptic neurons elicited distinct combinations of excitatory postsynaptic current-inhibitory postsynaptic current (EPSC-IPSC) amplitudes in the postsynaptic neurons. EPSC-IPSC sequences with small EPSCs had large IPSCs and sequences that contained large EPSCs had small IPSCs. In addition to differences in the amplitudes of the responses, the kinetics of the EPSCs were also different, creating distinct temporal dynamics of excitation and inhibition. Weaker EPSCs had significantly slower kinetics and were efficiently occluded by IPSCs, thereby further limiting their contribution to depolarizing the postsynaptic membrane. Our data suggest that hippocampal pyramidal cells may use an imbalance between excitation and inhibition as a filter to enhance selectivity toward preferential excitatory connections.
Dopaminergic afferents from the ventral tegmental area (VTA) modulate information processing in the nucleus accumbens (NA), a brain region critical for motivation and reward mechanisms. In NA medium spiny neurons (MSNs) from young rats, D(2) agonists have been shown to decrease the amplitude of corticoaccumbens synaptic responses. As several dopamine-related functions change during adolescence, we assessed the D(2) modulation of cortical inputs with whole-cell recordings in slices obtained from adult and preadolescent rats. The D(2) agonist quinpirole (5 microM) decreased synaptic response of NA MSNs to electrical cortical stimulation in slices from preadolescent rats. In slices from adult rats, however, quinpirole increased both the amplitude of evoked synaptic responses and the frequency of spontaneous synaptic events. These effects were blocked by the GABA-A antagonist picrotoxin (50 microM), revealing a D(2)-mediated decrease These results suggest that D(2) receptors modulate NA neurons differently in young and adult rats, due to the emergence of a D(2)-facilitated GABA component in corticoaccumbens responses during adolescence.
Depth recordings in patients with Parkinson's disease (PD) have demonstrated exaggerated local field potential (LFP) activity at frequencies between 10 and 30 Hz in the subthalamic nucleus (STN). This activity is modulated prior to single phasic movements, possibly as part of the feedforward organization of incipient voluntary movement, and after single phasic movements, as a consequence of afferent feedback processes. Here we test the hypothesis that this activity is also modulated during repetitive movements, reflecting a role in ongoing performance. Accordingly, we recorded LFP activity from the contralateral STN of seven patients with PD withdrawn from anti-parkinsonian medication while they performed repetitive index finger to thumb taps. Cross-correlograms of LFP activity at different frequencies in the 10-30 Hz band with finger position showed that LFP activity was modulated in amplitude by finger tapping. The modulation was higher at the beginning of each recording when tapping performance was better, and diminished as tapping became more bradykinetic over time. The best modulations were seen over those frequencies that were maximal in the power spectrum of the corresponding LFP, and for a given side were most marked at the contact pair that exhibited the highest power at these frequencies. In conclusion, subthalamic activity in the 10-30-Hz band is amplitude modulated during movement. This process fails as bradykinesia increases.
To elucidate the role of ipsilateral motor cortex (M1) in the control of unilateral finger movements (UFMs) in humans we used a conditioning protocol of 1-Hz repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation (1-Hz rTMS) over M1 in 11 right-handed healthy subjects. We analysed the effects of conditioning rTMS on UFMs of different complexity (simple vs sequential finger movements), and performed with a different modality (internally vs externally paced movements). UFMs were monitored with a sensor-engineered glove, and a quantitative evaluation of the following parameters was performed: touch duration (TD); inter-tapping interval (ITI); timing error (TE); and number of errors (NE). 1-Hz rTMS over ipsilateral M1 was able to affect the performance of a sequence of finger opposition movements in a metronome-paced condition, significantly increasing TD and reducing ITI without TE changes. The effects on motor behaviour had a different magnitude as a function of the sequence complexity. Further, we found a different effect of the ipsilateral 1-Hz rTMS on externally paced movements with respect to an internally paced condition. All these findings indicate that ipsilateral M1 plays an important role in the execution of sequential UFMs. Interestingly, NE did not change in any experimental condition, suggesting that ipsilateral M1 influences only the temporal and not the spatial accuracy of UFMs. Finally, the duration (up to 30 min) of 1-Hz rTMS effects on ipsilateral M1 can indicate its direct action on the mechanisms of cortical plasticity, suggesting that rTMS can be used to modulate the communication between the two hemispheres in rehabilitative protocols.
Microinjection of arginine vasopressin (Avp) into the rostral hypothalamus of Syrian hamsters induces a form of scent marking known as flank marking. The ability of Avp to stimulate flank marking is mediated by the vasopressin 1a receptor (Avpr1a). In hamsters housed in long 'summer-like' photoperiods, the amount of flank marking and the number of Avpr1a receptors in the rostral hypothalamus are regulated by testosterone. However, hamsters housed in short 'winter-like' photoperiods for 6-8 weeks continue to flank mark at high levels despite significant reductions in the circulating levels of testosterone. In the present study, we compared the effects of gonadal steroids on Avp-induced flank marking and Avpr1a binding and affinity in hamsters housed in short photoperiods and those housed in long photoperiods. In long-photoperiod-housed hamsters, castration significantly reduced the amount of Avp-induced flank marking; however, in short-photoperiod-housed hamsters there were no significant differences between gonadally regressed and castrated hamsters. Surprisingly, Avpr1a receptor binding, but not affinity, in the medial preoptic area and the medial preoptic nucleus was significantly reduced in long-photoperiod-housed castrates as well as short-photoperiod-housed gonadally regressed and castrated hamsters, compared with long-photoperiod-housed gonadally intact hamsters. These data demonstrate that in short photoperiods Avp-induced flank marking is independent of gonadal hormones, despite gonadal steroid-dependent reductions in Avpr1a binding.
The intracellular assembly of tau aggregates is a pathological hallmark shared by Alzheimer's disease and other neurodegenerative disorders known collectively as tauopathies. To model how tau fibrillogenesis evolves in tauopathies, we previously established transfectant M1C cultures from human neuroblastoma BE(2)-M17D cells that inducibly express human tau. In the present study, these cells were used to determine the role of the autophagic-lysosomal system in the degradation and aggregation of wild-type tau. Tau induction for 5 days led to the accumulation of tau with nominal assembly of tau aggregates within cells. When the lysosomotropic agent, chloroquine (CQ), was added following the termination of tau induction, tau clearance was delayed. Decreased tau truncation and increased levels of intact tau were observed. When present during tau induction, CQ led to tau accumulation and promoted the formation of sarkosyl-insoluble aggregates containing both truncated and full-length tau. CQ treatment significantly decreased the activities of cathepsins D, B and L, and the inhibition of cathepsins B and L mimicked the effect of CQ and increased tau levels in cells. Additionally, exposure of cells to the autophagy inhibitor, 3-methyladenine, led to tau accumulation and aggregation. These results suggest that the autophagic-lysosomal system plays a role in the clearance of tau, and that dysfunction of this system results in the formation of tau oligomers and insoluble aggregates.





Acute, acquired demyelination of central nervous system in childhood leads to a variety of clinical phenotypes dependant on the site of demyelination and presence of encephalopathy. Posterior fossa involvement is seen in over third of cases in childhood. We report on four children who had cerebellar involvement with significant mass effect in posterior fossa on CT and MRI brain. This subgroup of children have significant cerebellar and brainstem swelling (rhombencephalitis) and is difficult to distinguish entirely on clinical grounds from other children with acute demyelinating events at presentation.
Cold extremities have been noted in non-walking children with cerebral damage compared with healthy controls. Whether this is a general problem in children with cerebral palsy (CP) and associated with other symptoms is unknown. This study describes accompanying symptoms such as cold extremities, constipation, pain, sleeping disorders and impaired well-being in children with CP as well as treatment the children have undergone. Associations between cold extremities and other symptoms borne by the children were analysed and discussed. From information in postal surveys received from parents of children with CP, 107 children (60 boys and 47 girls) aged 5-13 years, mean 11 years 8 months (SD 2 years 11 months), were described and analysed. Besides neurological impairments, many children had cold extremities and pain, sleeping disorders, constipation, and impaired well-being. Most children had had one or more of these symptoms for over 1 year but the symptoms were largely untreated. Non-walkers generally had more symptoms than walkers. Although pain, constipation, and sleeping disorders may have different underlying causes in children with CP, these symptoms might also be mediated or aggravated by dysfunction in the autonomic nervous system. To improve the child's well-being, early recognition and treatment of accompanying symptoms is important.

Androgens and estrogens affect the performance on certain cognitive tests, particularly those measuring verbal fluency and mental rotation. Their effects on cognition have frequently been attributed to changes in cerebral lateralization. This study tested the impact of a reversal of the sex steroid milieu on cerebral activation and lateralization during verbal and spatial tasks in transsexuals. fMRI scans were obtained from 6 female-to-male and 8 male-to-female transsexuals at baseline and after cross-sex steroid treatment. Activation was measured during language and mental rotation tasks. Language activation increased after sex steroid treatment in both groups (F(1,12) =3.7, p=0.08), and total language activity was correlated to post-treatment estradiol levels (rho=0.54, p=0.05). Lateralization was not affected by the reversal of sex steroid milieus (F(1,12)=1.47, p=0.25). Activation during mental rotation did not increase during treatment (F(1,12)=0.54, p=0.34), but post-treatment testosterone levels correlated to total activation during mental rotation (rho=0.64, p=0.01). Findings suggest that sex steroids may influence cerebral activation, but lateralization remains stable.
The Conference was organized and supported by: Nei Dan School (European School of Internal Martial Arts), NIB (Laboratory of Molecular Biology and Stem Cell Bioengineering, National Institute of Biostructures and Biosystems, Institute of Cardiology, S.Orsola-Malpighi Hospital, Bologna), WACIMA (Worldwide Association Chinese Internal Martial Arts), Arti D'Oriente(Magazine of Eastern culture and traditions), Nuovo Orizzonte (Taiji Quan School in Florence), Samurai (Journal on Martial Arts), and Pinus (First National Institute for the Unification of Medical Strategies). Nei Dan School (www.taichineidan.com, neidan@libero.it) was in charge of the organization. Future meetings of the Centro studi 'Tao and Science' will take place in spring 2007 in Firenze and in October 2007 in Bologna. For information: E-mail: neidan@libero.it; web site: www.taichineidan.com, www.taoandscience.com.
The study of patients to infer normal brain function has a long tradition in neurology and psychology. More recently, the motor system has been subject to quantitative and computational characterization. The purpose of this review is to argue that the lesion approach and theoretical motor control can mutually inform each other. Specifically, one may identify distinct motor control processes from computational models and map them onto specific deficits in patients. Here we review some of the impairments in motor control, motor learning and higher-order motor control in patients with lesions of the corticospinal tract, the cerebellum, parietal cortex, the basal ganglia, and the medial temporal lobe. We attempt to explain some of these impairments in terms of computational ideas such as state estimation, optimization, prediction, cost, and reward. We suggest that a function of the cerebellum is system identification: to build internal models that predict sensory outcome of motor commands and correct motor commands through internal feedback. A function of the parietal cortex is state estimation: to integrate the predicted proprioceptive and visual outcomes with sensory feedback to form a belief about how the commands affected the states of the body and the environment. A function of basal ganglia is related to optimal control: learning costs and rewards associated with sensory states and estimating the &quot;cost-to-go&quot; during execution of a motor task. Finally, functions of the primary and the premotor cortices are related to implementing the optimal control policy by transforming beliefs about proprioceptive and visual states, respectively, into motor commands.
Vibration on localised areas of skin can be used to signal spatial orientation, multi-directional motion and also to guide arm and hand movements. This study investigated the possibility that vibration at loci on the skin might also be used to cue gaze direction. Eight subjects made eye or (head + eye) gaze saccades in the dark cued by vibration stimulation at discrete loci spaced on a horizontal contour across the chest. Saccade and gaze amplitudes, latencies, and directions were analysed. In the first experiment, performed without training, subjects could only use vibration cues to direct their gaze in cardinal directions and gross quadrature. There was a high variability in the relationship between locus on the trunk and gaze direction in space, both within and between subjects. Saccade latencies ranged from 377 to 433 ms and were related to the loci of vibration; the further from the body midline the quicker the response. Since the association of skin loci with gaze direction did not appear intuitive a sub-group of four subjects were retested after intensive training with feedback until they attained criterion on midline identical with 0 degrees and 15 cm (to right/left of midline) identical with 45 degrees gaze shifts right and left. Training gave a moderate improvement in directional specificity of gaze to a particular locus on the skin. Gaze direction was linearly rescaled with respect to skin loci but variability and saccade latencies remained high. The uncertainty in the relationship between vibration locus and gaze direction and the prolonged latencies of responses indicate circuitous neuronal processing. There appears to be no pre-existing stimulus-response compatibility mapping between loci on the skin and gaze direction. Vibrotactile cues on the skin of the trunk only serve a gross indication of visual direction in space.
Normal aging is associated with less lateralised task-related activation of the primary motor cortices. It has been hypothesized, but not tested, that this phenomenon is mediated transcallosaly. We have used Transcranial Magnetic Stimulation to look for age-related changes in interhemispheric inhibition (IHI). Thirty healthy individuals (aged 19-78 years) were studied using a paired-pulse protocol at rest and during a low-strength isometric contraction with the right hand. The IHI targeting the right motor cortex was assessed at two intervals, 10 ms (IHI10) and 40 ms (IHI40). The corticospinal excitability of the left hemisphere was assessed by means of input-output curves constructed during voluntary construction. Age was not correlated with IHI10 or IHI40 at rest. During muscle contraction IHI tended to increase at both intervals. However, this increase in IHI during the active condition (changeIHI) was less evident with advancing age for the 40 ms interval (r = 0.444, P = 0.02); in fact a degree of disinhibition was often present. There was no correlation between age and changeIHI10. Age was negatively correlated with the area under the recruitment curve (r = -0.585, P = 0.001) and the size of the maximum MEP collected (r = -0.485, P = 0.007). ChangeIHI and measures of corticospinal excitability were not intercorrelated. In conclusion, task-related increases in interhemispheric inhibition seem to diminish with advancing age. This phenomenon is specific for long-latency IHI and may underlie the age-related bihemispheric activation seen in functional imaging studies. The mechanism underlying changes in IHI with advancing age and the association with changes in corticospinal excitability need further investigation.
Agonists at A(1) receptors and antagonists at A(2A) receptors are known to be neuroprotective against excitotoxicity. We set out to clarify the mechanisms involved by studying interactions between adenosine receptor ligands and endogenous glutamate in cultures of rat cerebellar granule neurons (CGNs). Glutamate and the selective agonist N-methyl-D: -aspartate (NMDA), applied to CGNs at 9 div (days in vitro), both induced cell death in a concentration-dependent manner, which was attenuated by treatment with the NMDA receptor antagonists dizocilpine, D: -2-amino-5-phosphono-pentanoic acid (D: -AP5) or kynurenic acid (KYA), but not by the non-NMDA receptor antagonist 6-cyano-7-nitroquinoxaline-2,3-dione (CNQX). Glutamate toxicity was reduced in the presence of all of the following: cyclosporin A (CsA), a blocker of the membrane permeability transition pore, the caspase-3 inhibitor, benzyloxycarbonyl-Asp(OMe)-Glu(OMe)-Val-Asp(OMe)-fluoromethylketone (Z-DEVD-fmk), the poly (ADP-ribose) polymerase (PARP-1) inhibitor 3,4-dihydro-5-[4-(1-piperidinyl)butoxyl]-1(2H)-isoquinolinone (DPQ), and nicotinamide. This is indicative of involvement of both apoptotic and necrotic processes. The A(1) receptor agonist, N (6)-cyclopentyladenosine (CPA), and the A(2A) receptor antagonist 4-(2-[7-amino-2-[2-furyl][1,2,4]triazolo[2,3-a][1,3,5]triazo-5-yl-amino]ethyl)phenol (ZM241385) afforded significant protection, while the A(1) receptor blocker 8-cyclopentyl-1,3-dipropylxanthine (DPCPX) and the A(2A) receptor agonist 2-p-(2-carboxyethyl)phenethylamino-5'-N-ethylcarboxyamidoadenosine (CGS21680) had no effect. These results confirm that glutamate-induced neurotoxicity in CGNs is mainly via the NMDA receptor, but show that a form of cell death which exhibits aspects of both apoptosis and necrosis is involved. The protective activity of A(1) receptor activation or A(2A) receptor blockade occurs against this mixed profile of cell death, and appears not to involve the selective inhibition of classical apoptotic or necrotic cascades.
An increase in ipsilateral descending motor pathway activity has been reported following hemiparetic stroke. In axial muscles, increased ipsilateral cortical activity has been correlated with good recovery whereas in distal arm muscles it is correlated with poor recovery. Currently, little is known about the control of proximal upper limb muscles following stroke. This muscle group is less impaired than the distal arm muscles following stroke, yet contributes to the abnormal motor coordination patterns associated with movements of the arm which can severely impair reaching ability. This study used transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) to evaluate the presence and magnitude of ipsilateral and contralateral projections to the pectoralis major (PMJ) muscle in stroke survivors. A laterality index (LI) was used to investigate the relationship between ipsilateral and contralateral projections and strength, clinical impairment level, and the degree of abnormal coordination expressed in the arm. The ipsilateral and contralateral hemispheres were stimulated using 90% TMS intensity while the subject generated shoulder adduction torques in both arms. Motor evoked potentials (MEPs) were measured in the paretic and non-paretic PMJ. The secondary torque at the elbow was measured during maximal adduction as an indicator of the degree of extensor synergy. Ipsilateral MEPs were most common in stroke survivors with moderate to severe motor deficits. The LI was correlated with clinical impairment level (P = 0.05) and the degree of extension synergy expressed in the arm (P = 0.03). The LI was not correlated with strength. These results suggest that increased excitability of ipsilateral pathways projecting to the proximal upper arm may contribute to the expression of the extension synergy following stroke. These findings are discussed in relation to a possible unmasking or upregulation of oligosynaptic cortico-bulbospinal pathways following stroke.
Previous studies showed that changing forces of gravity as they typically occur during parabolic flights might be responsible for adaptional processes of the CNS. However, until now it has not been differentiated between primary influences of weightlessness and secondary influences due to psycho-physiological factors (e.g., physical or mental strain). With the aim of detecting parabolic flight related changes in central cortical activity, a resting EEG was deduced in 16 subjects before, during and after parabolic flights. After subdividing EEG into alpha-, beta-,delta- and theta-wave bands, an increase in beta-power was noticeable inflight, whereas alpha(1)-power was increased postflight. No changes could be observed for the control group. To control possible effects of cortical activation, a manual tracking task with mirror inversion was performed during either the phase of weightlessness or during the normal gravity phase of a parabolic flight. No differences in performance nor in adaptation could be observed between both groups. A third group, performing under normal and stress-free conditions in a lab showed similar tracking values. We assume that the specific increase in brain activity is a sign of an increase in arousal inflight. This does support previous assumptions of non-specific stressors during parabolic flights and has to be considered as a relevant factor for experiments on central nerve adaptation. Although no influences of stress and/or weightlessness on motor performance and adaptation could be observed, we suggest that an &quot;inflight&quot; control group seems to be more adequate than a laboratory control group to investigate gravity-dependent changes in motor control.
The administration of basic fibroblast growth factor (FGF-2) to rats with postnatal 10 (P10) motor cortex (MCx) lesions results in functional improvements accompanied with filling of the previously lesioned area with tissue. In the present experiment, we tested the prediction that FGF-2 induces functional recovery by promoting meaningful reconnection of neurons from the filled region to the periphery. Rats received bilateral MCx lesions on P10 and subcutaneous injections of either vehicle or FGF-2 for 7 days beginning on P11. In adulthood, we evaluated the physiology and anatomy of corticospinal projections using intracortical microstimulation together with recordings of evoked electromyographic (EMG) activity in wrist extensors, and anterogradely tracing projecting axons using biotin dextran amine. We found that activity could be induced in the wrist extensors following stimulation of the filled region with onset delays comparable to undamaged corticospinal tract fibers in 5 out of 7 lesioned, FGF-2 treated rats. Furthermore, in the rats in which EMG activity could be elicited, long descending axons were labeled with projections into the spinal cord comparable to corticospinal tracts from undamaged motor cortex. Our results demonstrate that FGF-2 treatment restores the connectivity of the filled region in neonatal rats. This provides a possible mechanism for FGF-2-induced functional recovery.
Deletion of the p66(Shc) gene in mice results in reduced levels of oxidative stress and longer lifespan. Reactive oxygen species (ROS) can lead to tissue damage, particularly in the brain. In this study we extended previous findings on the behavioral phenotype of the p66(Shc-/-) mice. Cognitive performance of adult and old p66(Shc-/-) and p66(Shc+/+) mice was tested in a Morris water maze (MWM) task while general reactivity and pain sensitivity were assayed at adulthood, respectively, in an open field and by means of a tail flick test. Levels of brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF), a neurotrophin involved in several aspects of synaptic plasticity, emotionality and pain sensitivity, were assessed in selected brain areas. P66(Shc-/-) adult subjects, compared to WT, overall showed a better performance in the MWM, lower emotionality and a higher pain threshold, in addition to increased basal levels of BDNF in the hippocampus, as well as decreased levels of oxidative stress markers in the same brain area. Although all aged subjects failed to learn the cognitive task, aged p66(Shc-/-) mice were characterized by a better physical performance. These results suggest an interaction between the p66(Shc) gene and specific signaling pathways involved in behavioral adaptation to stress and aging.
Steady-state potentials are oscillatory responses generated by rhythmic stimulation of a sensory pathway. The frequency of the response, which follows the frequency of stimulation and potentially indicates the preferential working frequency of the auditory neural network, is maximal at a stimulus rate of 40 Hz for auditory stimuli in humans, but may be different in other species. Our aim was to explore the responses to different frequencies in the rat. The stimulus was a tone modulated in amplitude by a sinusoid with linearly-increasing frequency from 1 to 250 Hz (&quot;chirp&quot;). Time-frequency transforms were used for response analysis in 12 animals, awake and under ketamine/xylazine anesthesia. We studied whether the responses were due to increases in amplitude or to phase-locking phenomena, using single-sweep time-frequency transforms and inter-trial phase analysis. A progressive decrease in the amplitude of the response was observed from the maximal values (around 15 Hz) up to the limit of the test (250 Hz). The high-frequency component was mainly due to phase-locking phenomena with a smaller amplitude contribution. Under anesthesia, the amplitude and phase-locking of lower frequencies (under 100 Hz) decreased, while the phase-locking over 200 Hz increased. In conclusion, amplitude-modulation following responses differ between humans and rats in response range and frequency of maximal amplitude. Anesthesia with ketamine/xylazine modifies differentially the amplitude and the phase-locking of the responses. These findings should be taken into account when assessing the changes in cortical oscillatory activity related to different drugs, in healthy rodents and in animal models of neurodegenerative diseases.
Cerebral palsy (CP) is a complex disorder of locomotion, posture and movements resulting from pre-, peri- or postnatal damage to the developing brain. In a previous study (Strata, F., Coq, J.O., Byl, N.N., Merzenich, M.M., 2004. Comparison between sensorimotor restriction and anoxia on gait and motor cortex organization: implications for a rodent model of cerebral palsy. Neuroscience 129, 141-156.), CP-like movement disorders were more reliably reproduced in rats by hind limb sensorimotor restriction (disuse) during development rather than perinatal asphyxia (PA). To gain new insights into the underpinning mechanisms of CP symptoms we investigated the long-term effects of PA and disuse on the hind limb musculoskeletal histology and topographical organization in the primary somatosensory cortex (S1) of adult rats. Developmental disuse (i.e. hind limb immobilization) associated with PA induced muscle fiber atrophy, extracellular matrix changes in the muscle, and mild to moderate ankle and knee joint degeneration at levels greater than disuse alone. Sensorimotor restricted rats with or without PA exhibited a topographical disorganization of the S1 cortical hind limb representation with abnormally large, multiple and overlapping receptive fields. This disorganization was enhanced when disuse and PA were associated. Altered cortical neuronal properties included increased cortical responsiveness and a decrease in neuronal selectivity to afferent inputs. These data support previous observations that asphyxia per se can generate the substrate for peripheral tissue and brain damage, which are worsened by aberrant sensorimotor experience during maturation, and could explain the disabling movement disorders observed in children with CP.
Although altered gene expression clearly causes failure of the neocortex to form properly, many causes of neocortical dysplasia arise from environmental or unknown factors. Our lab studies a model of cortical dysplasia induced by injection of methylazoxymethanol (MAM) into pregnant ferrets on embryonic day 33 (E33), which shares many features of neocortical dysplasia in humans. E33 MAM treatment results in characteristic deficits that include dramatic reduction of layer 4 in somatosensory cortex, widespread termination of thalamic afferents, and altered distribution of GABAergic elements. We determined the ability of immature cells to migrate into MAM-treated cortex using ferret neural progenitor cells obtained at E27 and E33 and mouse neural progenitor cells obtained at E14. When these cells were transplanted into organotypic cultures obtained from normal and E33 MAM-treated ferret cortex prepared on postnatal day 0 (P0), all progenitor cells migrated similarly in both hosts, preferentially residing in the upper cortical plate. The site of transplantation was significant, however, so that injections into the ventricular zone were more likely to reach the cortical plate than transplants into the intermediate zone. When similar cells were transplanted into ferret kits, approximately P7-P9, and allowed to survive for 2-4 weeks, the donor cells migrated differently and also reached distinct destinations in normal and MAM-treated hosts. MAM-treated cortex was more permissive to invasion by donor cells as they migrated to widespread aspects of the cortex, whereas transplants in normal host cortex were more restricted. E27 neural progenitor cells populated more cortical layers than later born E33 neural progenitor cells, suggesting that the fate of transplanted cells is governed by a combination of extrinsic and intrinsic factors.
One of the most critical times in the human lifespan is the late embryonic/early postnatal period, due to the careful orchestration of numerous events leading to normal brain development. This period is also characterized by a heightened incidence of harmful events that act via the GABAergic system, including hypoxia-ischemia, seizures and drug exposure from maternal circulation (e.g., alcohol, barbiturates). Unfortunately, there are few effective means of attenuating damage in the immature brain. In the current investigation, we documented the effect of 17alpha-estradiol, a natural epimer of 17beta-estradiol that has potent estrogen receptor-independent actions, on excessive GABA(A) receptor-induced damage to the neonatal brain. We observed that treatment with 17alpha-estradiol significantly attenuates the GABA(A) receptor-induced reduction in hippocampal volume and impaired hippocampal-dependent performance on the Morris water maze and radial arm maze. 17alpha-Estradiol-mediated neuroprotection is hypothesized to be achieved by attenuating GABA(A) receptor-induced cell loss, assessed in primary hippocampal cultures using both the lactate dehydrogenase assay and TUNEL, with equivalent prevention of cell loss in the presence or absence of the estrogen receptor antagonist, ICI-182,780. These data highlight one of the initial investigations of the neuroprotective potential of 17alpha-estradiol in an in vivo model of injury to the immature brain.

Dopamine agonists are highly effective as adjunctive therapy to levodopa in advanced Parkinson's disease. These drugs have rapidly gained popularity as a monotherapy in the early stages of Parkinson's disease for patients &lt; 65-70 years old, because they are about as effective as levodopa, but patients demonstrate a lower tendency to develop motor complications. However, dopamine agonists could have peripheral and central side effects, which are often the reason for the discontinuation of the treatment. This review focuses on the potential negative effects related to the use of dopamine agonists in the treatment of Parkinson's disease.

Tuberous sclerosis complex (TSC) is an inherited disorder resulting from mutations in one of two genes, TSC1 (Hamartin) and TSC2 (Tuberin). These two proteins form a cytosolic complex that inhibits the mTOR pathway that controls cell growth and proliferation. Pathologically, abnormalities of neuronal migration, cellular differentiation and excessive cellular proliferation all contribute to the formation of the different brain lesions of TSC. Seizure is the most common presenting symptom. Seizures can be present in the first year of life and up to one third of children develop infantile spasms. Seizures usually have a focal or multifocal origin, are often resistant to antiepileptic drugs and have a negative impact on the neurocognitive development. Vigabatrin has proved to be effective against infantile spasms due to TSC. New evidence suggests that it is possible to noninvasively identify using multimodality techniques, TSC children who are likely to become seizure-free following surgical treatment. Understanding the mechanisms of epileptogenesis and the possible role of the mTOR pathway in this process might increase the availability of novel and targeted therapies.
Hypocretins (or orexins) are two neuropeptides synthesized by neurons located exclusively in the hypothalamus. Hypocretin-containing neurons have widespread projections throughout the CNS; with particularly dense excitatory projections to monoaminergic and serotonergic brainstem centers. The hypocretin system influences a wide range of physiological processes in mammals, such as feeding, arousal, rewards and drug addiction. Recently, a number of studies in experimental animals showed that hypocretins are involved in pain modulation within the CNS, and suggested the presence of a link between these peptides and nociceptive phenomena observed in primary headaches. The aim of this review is to describe and discuss recent studies in humans suggesting a role for the hypocretin neuronal system in cluster headache and chronic migraine.
Desensitization of seven transmembrane receptors (7TMRs), which are modulated by the beta-arrestins, leads to altered G protein activation. The A1 adenosine receptor (A1AR) is an antiinflammatory 7TMR exhibiting reduced expression and activity in both multiple sclerosis (MS) and the murine MS model, experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE) in monocytoid cells. Herein, we report that beta-arrestin-1 expression was increased in brains of MS patients relative to non-MS brains, whereas A1AR expression was concomitantly reduced. This inverse relationship between beta-arrestin-1 and A1AR was confirmed in cultured monocytoid cells as beta-arrestin-1 overexpression resulted in a down-regulation of A1AR together with the internalization of the surface receptor. Moreover, a physical interaction between beta-arrestin-1 and A1AR was demonstrated in monocytoid cells. Proinflammatory cytokines regulated the A1AR/beta-arrestin-1 interactions, while A1AR activation also modulated proinflammatory cytokines expression. During EAE, beta-arrestin-1 and A1AR expression in the spinal cord displayed a similar pattern compared to that observed in MS brains. EAE-induced neuroinflammation and neurobehavioral deficits were suppressed by glucocorticoid treatments, accompanied by concurrent reduced beta-arrestin-1 and enhanced A1AR expression. Thus, the interplay between beta-arrestin-1 and A1AR in the central nervous system during neuroinflammation represents a reciprocal regulatory mechanism through which neuroprotective therapeutic strategies for neuroinflammatory diseases might be further developed.
Transgenic mice expressing mutant Cu2+/Zn2+ superoxide dismutase SOD1(G93A) develop similar clinical and pathological phenotypes to amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) patients. Here, we utilize representational difference analysis to identify the transcripts that are up-regulated in the presymptomatic stage of SOD1(G93A) mice. Unexpectedly, three predominant clones were 18S or 28S ribosomal RNA (rRNA) segments. One of these clones corresponded to a capped and polyadenylated transcript containing a large portion of 18S rRNA, named MSUR1 (mutant SOD1-up-regulated RNA 1). In vitro expression experiments show that MSUR1 is able to rescue SOD1(G93A)-mediated cell death. Expression of MSUR1 significantly reduces SOD1(G93A)-induced free radical levels and oxidative damage. Further, MSUR1 can reduce hydrogen peroxide-mediated cytotoxicity. MSUR1 does not encode a protein, suggesting its role as a functional noncoding RNA. It is widely expressed in various tissues. Searching the database of GenBank revealed that a large number of expressed sequence tag (EST) clones contain large portions of rRNA sequence, potentially indicating a heretofore overlooked class of mRNAs with functional significance.
Ethanol (EtOH) alters neural activity through interaction with various neurotransmitters and neuromodulators. The endogenous opioid system seems to play a key role in the activities of EtOH, since the opioid antagonist naltrexone (ReVia) attenuates craving. We have investigated the transcriptional regulation of opioid system genes in response to EtOH exposure for up to 96 h in human neuroblastoma SH-SY5Y cells using quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction. We observed a significant decrease in the expression of opioid peptide precursors (proopiomelanocortin, proenkephalin, and prodynorphin) and of the kappa opioid receptor after 48 and 72 h of EtOH exposure (10 and 40 mM). These alterations were not present when the EtOH metabolism was blocked by 4-methylpyrazole. To evaluate whether the effects evoked by EtOH were possibly due to the first product of EtOH metabolism, cells were exposed to 0.4 mM acetaldehyde. We observed the same pattern of changes for prodynorphin, proenkephalin, and the kappa opioid receptor as after 72 h exposure to EtOH. These results contribute to our understanding of EtOH action at a cellular level and provide evidence of the role of acetaldehyde in mediating some of the EtOH-induced effects.
Presenilin 1 (PS1) forms the gamma-secretase complex with at least three components: nicastrin, APH-1, and PEN-2. This complex mediates intramembrane cleavage of amyloid precursor protein (APP) to generate beta-amyloid protein (Abeta) as well as other type 1 transmembrane proteins. Although PS1 mutations linked to familial Alzheimer's disease influence these cleavages, their biological consequences have not been fully understood. In this study, we used mRNA differential display analysis to identify a gene, denoted adoplin-1/ORMDL-1, which displays significantly reduced expression in association with PS1 mutations. Adoplin-1 and two highly homologous genes (adoplin-2, -3) constitute a gene family that encodes transmembrane proteins. The mRNA and protein levels of adoplins (particularly adoplin-1, -2) were markedly elevated in PS-deficient fibroblasts, compared to wild-type cells. Moreover, knockdown of the three adoplins by RNA interference affected maturation of nicastrin and its association with PS1. Adoplin knockdown additionally resulted in elevated levels of APP C-terminal fragments and decreased Abeta production, suggestive of reduced gamma-secretase activity. Our data collectively indicate that adoplins are unique molecules with PS-related expression and functions that may play important role(s) in the maturation and activity of the gamma-secretase complex.
Oxidative stress has been implicated in the degeneration of dopaminergic neurons in the substantia nigra (SN) of Parkinson's disease (PD) patients. An important biochemical feature of presymptomatic PD is a significant depletion of the thiol antioxidant glutathione (GSH) in these neurons resulting in oxidative stress, mitochondrial dysfunction, and ultimately cell death. We have earlier demonstrated that curcumin, a natural polyphenol obtained from turmeric, protects against peroxynitrite-mediated mitochondrial dysfunction both in vitro and in vivo. Here we report that treatment of dopaminergic neuronal cells and mice with curcumin restores depletion of GSH levels, protects against protein oxidation, and preserves mitochondrial complex I activity which normally is impaired due to GSH loss. Using systems biology and dynamic modeling we have explained the mechanism of curcumin action in a model of mitochondrial dysfunction linked to GSH metabolism that corroborates the major findings of our experimental work. These data suggest that curcumin has potential therapeutic value for neurodegenerative diseases involving GSH depletion-mediated oxidative stress.
We have tested the hypothesis that the type and kinetics of voltage-activated Ca(2+) channels in a neuroendocrine cell depend on the cell's long-term external input. For this purpose, the presence and kinetics of both low (LVA) and high-voltage-activated (HVA) L-type Ca(2+) channels have been assessed in melanotrope pituitary cells of the amphibian Xenopus laevis. The secretory activity of this cell type can readily be manipulated in vivo by changing the animal's environmental light condition, from a black to a white background. We here show that, compared to white background-adapted Xenopus, melanotropes from black background-adapted frogs have (1) a much larger size, as revealed by their 2.5 times larger membrane capacitance (P&lt;0.001), (2) a 2 times higher HVA current density (P&lt;0.05), (3) a clearly smaller Ca(2+)-dependent inactivation (10%; P&lt;0.05), (4) L-type channels with 5 times slower activation and inactivation kinetics (P&lt;0.05), and (5) slower kinetics of L-type channels that become faster and more similar to those in white-background adapted cells when the intracellular Ca(2+)-buffering capacity is reduced. Furthermore, white-adapted melanotropes possess LVA-type Ca(2+) channels, which are lacking from cells from black-adapted animals. The melanotrope calmodulin mRNA level does not differ between the two adaptation states. These results indicate that HVA L-type channel kinetics differ in relation to environmentally induced changes in cellular secretory state, probably mediated via intracellular Ca(2+)-buffering, whereas the occurrence of LVA Ca(2+) channels may depend on environmentally controlled channel gene expression.
Many hormones that are classified as neuropeptides are synthesized in vertebrate gonads in addition to the brain. Receptors for these hormones are also expressed in gonadal tissue; thus there is potential for a highly localized autocrine or paracrine effect of these hormones on a variety of gonadal functions. In the present study we focused on gonadotropin-inhibitory hormone (GnIH), a neuropeptide that was first discovered in the hypothalamus of birds. We present different lines of evidence for the synthesis of GnIH and its receptor in the avian reproductive system including gonads and accessory reproductive organs by studies on two orders of birds: Passeriformes and Galliformes. Binding sites for GnIH were initially identified via in vivo and in vitro receptor fluorography, and were localized in ovarian granulosa cells along with the interstitial layer and seminiferous tubules of the testis. Furthermore, species-specific primers produced clear PCR products of GnIH and GnIH receptor (GnIH-R) in songbird and quail gonadal and other reproductive tissues, such as oviduct, epididymis and vas deferens. Sequencing of the PCR products confirmed their identities. Immunocytochemistry detected GnIH peptide in ovarian thecal and granulosa cells, testicular interstitial cells and germ cells and pseudostratified columnar epithelial cells in the epididymis. In situ hybridization of GnIH-R mRNA in testes produced a strong reaction product which was localized to the germ cells and interstitium. In the epididymis, the product was also localized in the pseudostratified columnar epithelial cells. In sum, these results indicate that the avian reproductive system has the capability to synthesize and bind GnIH in several tissues. The distribution of GnIH and its receptor suggest a potential for autocrine/paracrine regulation of gonadal steroid production and germ cell differentiation and maturation.
Vitamin B12 deficiency anemia may have psychiatric manifestations preceding the hematological symptoms. Although a variety of symptoms are described, there are only sparse data on the role of vitamin B12 in depression. We report a case of vitamin B12 deficiency presenting with recurrent episodes of depression.

Autism is a behaviorally defined neurodevelopmental disorder of unknown etiology. Mouse models with face validity to the core symptoms offer an experimental approach to test hypotheses about the causes of autism and translational tools to evaluate potential treatments. We discovered that the inbred mouse strain BTBR T+tf/J (BTBR) incorporates multiple behavioral phenotypes relevant to all three diagnostic symptoms of autism. BTBR displayed selectively reduced social approach, low reciprocal social interactions and impaired juvenile play, as compared with C57BL/6J (B6) controls. Impaired social transmission of food preference in BTBR suggests communication deficits. Repetitive behaviors appeared as high levels of self-grooming by juvenile and adult BTBR mice. Comprehensive analyses of procedural abilities confirmed that social recognition and olfactory abilities were normal in BTBR, with no evidence for high anxiety-like traits or motor impairments, supporting an interpretation of highly specific social deficits. Database comparisons between BTBR and B6 on 124 putative autism candidate genes showed several interesting single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in the BTBR genetic background, including a nonsynonymous coding region polymorphism in Kmo. The Kmo gene encodes kynurenine 3-hydroxylase, an enzyme-regulating metabolism of kynurenic acid, a glutamate antagonist with neuroprotective actions. Sequencing confirmed this coding SNP in Kmo, supporting further investigation into the contribution of this polymorphism to autism-like behavioral phenotypes. Robust and selective social deficits, repetitive self-grooming, genetic stability and commercial availability of the BTBR inbred strain encourage its use as a research tool to search for background genes relevant to the etiology of autism, and to explore therapeutics to treat the core symptoms.
Circadian ( approximately 24 hr) rhythms of behavior and physiology are driven by molecular clocks that are endogenous to most organisms. The mechanisms underlying these clocks are remarkably conserved across evolution and typically consist of auto-regulatory loops in which specific proteins (clock proteins) rhythmically repress expression of their own genes. Such regulation maintains 24-hr cycles of RNA and protein expression. Despite the conservation of these mechanisms, however, questions are now being raised about the relevance of different molecular oscillations. Indeed, several studies have demonstrated that oscillations of some critical clock genes can be eliminated without loss of basic clock function. Here, we describe the multiple levels at which clock gene/protein expression and function can be rhythmically regulated-transcription, protein expression, post-translational modification, and localization-and speculate as to which aspect of this regulation is most critical. While the review is focused on Drosophila, we include some discussion of mammalian clocks to indicate the extent to which the questions concerning clock mechanisms are similar, regardless of the organism under study.
Knowledge of simulated microgravity (SMG)-induced changes in the pathogenicity of microorganisms is important for success of long-term spaceflight. In a previous study using the high aspect ratio vessel bioreactor, we showed that the yeast species Saccharomyces cerevisiae underwent a significant phenotypic response when grown in modeled microgravity, which was reflected in the analysis of gene expression profiles. In this study, we establish that Candida albicans responds to SMG in a similar fashion, demonstrating that there is a conserved response among yeast to this environmental stress. We also report that the growth of C. albicans in SMG results in a morphogenic switch that is consistent with enhanced pathogenicity. Specifically, we observed an increase in filamentous forms of the organism and accompanying changes in the expression of two genes associated with the yeast-hyphal transition. The morphological response may have significant implications for astronauts' safety, as the fungal pathogen may become more virulent during spaceflight.
Myelin formation around axons increases nerve conduction velocity and influences both the structure and function of the myelinated axon. In the peripheral nervous system, demyelinating forms of hereditary Charcot-Marie-Tooth (CMT) diseases cause reduced nerve conduction velocity initially and ultimately axonal degeneration. Several mouse models of CMT diseases have been generated, allowing the study of the consequences of disrupting Schwann cell function on peripheral nerve fibers. Nevertheless, the effect of demyelination at the level of the neuromuscular synapse has been largely overlooked. Here we show that in mice lacking functional Periaxin (Prx) genes, a model of a recessive type of CMT disease known as CMT4F, neuromuscular junctions (NMJs) develop profound morphological changes in the preterminal region of motor axons. These changes include extensive preterminal branches that originate in demyelinated regions of the nerve fiber and axonal swellings associated with residually-myelinated regions of the fiber. Using intracellular recording from muscle fibers we detected asynchronous failure of action potential transmission at high but not low stimulation frequencies, a phenomenon consistent with branch point failure. Taken together, our morphological and electrophysiological findings suggest that preterminal branching due to segmental demyelination near the neuromuscular synapse in Periaxin KO mice may underlie some characteristics of disabilities, including coordination deficits, present in this mouse model of CMT disease. These results reveal the importance of studying how demyelinating diseases might influence NMJ function and contribute to clinical disability.
Secondary tissue damage that occurs within days after spinal cord injury contributes significantly to permanent paralysis, sensory loss, and other functional disabilities. The acute inflammatory response is thought to contribute largely to this secondary damage. We show here that 15-deoxy-delta-12,14-prostaglandin J2 (15d-PGJ2), a metabolite of prostaglandin D2 (PGD2) that has anti-inflammatory actions, given daily for the first 2 weeks after spinal cord contusion injury in mice, results in significant improvement of sensory and locomotor function. 15d-PGJ2-treated mice also show diminished signs of microglia/macrophage activation, increased neuronal survival, greater serotonergic innervation, and reduced demyelination in the injured spinal cord. These changes are accompanied by a reduction in chemokine and pro-inflammatory cytokine expression. Our results also indicate that 15d-PGJ2 is likely to reduce inflammation in the injured spinal cord by attenuating multiple signaling pathways: reducing activation of NF-kappa B; enhancing expression of suppressor of cytokine signaling1 and reducing the activation of Janus activated Kinase 2.
Acute hyperammonemia (HA) causes cerebral edema and brain damage in children with urea cycle disorders (UCDs) and in patients in acute liver failure. Chronic HA is associated with developmental delay and mental retardation in children with UCDs, and with neuropsychiatric symptoms in patients with chronic liver failure. Astrocytes are a major cellular target of hyperammonemic encephalopathy, and changes occurring in these cells are thought to be causally related to the brain edema of acute HA. To study the effect of HA on astrocytes in vivo, we crossed the Otc(spf) mouse, a mouse with the X-linked UCD ornithine transcarbamylase (OTC) deficiency, with the hGFAP-EGFP mouse, a mouse selectively expressing green fluorescent protein in astrocytes. We used FACS to purify astrocytes from the brains of hyperammonemic and healthy Otcspf/GFAP-EGFP mice. RNA isolated from these astrocytes was used in microarray expression analyses and qRT-PCR. When compared with healthy littermates, we observed a significant downregulation of the gap-junction channel connexin 43 (Cx43) the water channel aquaporin 4 (Aqp4) genes, and the astrocytic inward-rectifying potassium channel (Kir) genes Kir4.1 and Kir5.1 in hyperammonemic mice. Aqp4, Cx43, and Kir4.1/Kir5.1 are co-localized to astrocytic end-feet at the brain vasculature, where they regulate potassium and water transport. Since, NH4+ ions can permeate water and K+-channels, downregulation of these three channels may be a direct effect of elevated blood ammonia levels. Our results suggest that alterations in astrocyte-mediated water and potassium homeostasis in brain may be key to the development of the brain edema.

Migraine is a neurologic disorder characterized by a cycle of attacks, including headache, separated by attack-free periods. Increasingly, episodic migraine is recognized as a disorder that may escalate to chronic migraine, with a frequency of 15 or more attacks per month. Migraine exacts a toll on the quality of life (QoL) of affected individuals, their families, and their workplace. Migraine adversely affects a patient's QoL during an attack, but also has an impact between attacks. This interictal burden on the patient manifests itself as worry in anticipation of the next painful attack and concern over its possible adverse impact on future plans or activities. The high prevalence of migraine, 12% in industrialized countries and approximately 28 million people in the United States, is considered a low estimate. Patients with disruptive migraines frequently overuse self-prescribed medications or may postpone a visit to a physician, which delays accurate diagnosis and appropriate treatment for migraine. Consequently, migraine remains underdiagnosed and undertreated. An extensive literature search of migraine reviewed its associated disability and reduced QoL during, and especially between, attacks. Assessment tools to evaluate the interictal burden on QoL, and to help in migraine diagnosis and patient-physician communication, are readily available. Nevertheless, patients with frequent and recurring migraines, who suffer a reduced QoL, continue to be underrecognized and undertreated. This segment of the migraine population could benefit from preventive therapy.

Cajal (1852-1934) first had contact with the fields of psychiatry and psychology through the experimental study of hypnotism. He interpreted this phenomenon as an aberrant failure of the machinery of the brain. It may be that Cajal's initial interest in the theory of hypnotic suggestion eventually led him to study the biological phenomena related to sleep and dreams, in the neurophysiological explanation of which he disagreed openly with Freud's postulates. Finally, Cajal studied the histophysiological mechanisms of the higher mentalfunctions (thought, intelligence, memory, perception, etc.). He proposed that the pyramidal cells of the cerebral cortex, which he called 'psychic cells', formed the substrate of these functions; he proposed the law of 'avalanche conduction', and he speculated on the possibility of a phenomenon of neuronal plasticity in relation to learning processes. After being awarded the Nobel Prize in 1906, Cajal's interests in psychological aspects began to decline.

N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptors play an important role in learning and memory. Targeting the glycine modulatory site of the NMDA receptor has been suggested as a therapeutic strategy to improve cognition, although findings have not been convincing. We used the Cognitive Drug Research computerised assessment system to examine the effects of high-dose glycine on a number of cognitive processes in healthy young subjects. The study was a randomised placebo controlled repeated measures design in which each subject received acute placebo or glycine (0.8 g/kg) orally, with treatment conditions separated by a 5-day washout period. No significant effects of glycine were found on measures of working memory, declarative memory, attention or perceptual processing. These findings, together with those of previous studies, cast doubt over the ability of acute high-dose glycine to improve cognitive function in healthy subjects and suggest that the optimum dose of glycine for improving cognition may vary between different populations, possibly due to differences in endogenous glycine levels and the functional status of NMDA receptors.

The aggregation of imaging, clinical, and behavioral data from multiple independent institutions and researchers presents both a great opportunity for biomedical research as well as a formidable challenge. Many research groups have well-established data collection and analysis procedures, as well as data and metadata format requirements that are particular to that group. Moreover, the types of data and metadata collected are quite diverse, including image, physiological, and behavioral data, as well as descriptions of experimental design, and preprocessing and analysis methods. Each of these types of data utilizes a variety of software tools for collection, storage, and processing. Furthermore sites are reluctant to release control over the distribution and access to the data and the tools. To address these needs, the Biomedical Informatics Research Network (BIRN) has developed a federated and distributed infrastructure for the storage, retrieval, analysis, and documentation of biomedical imaging data. The infrastructure consists of distributed data collections hosted on dedicated storage and computational resources located at each participating site, a federated data management system and data integration environment, an Extensible Markup Language (XML) schema for data exchange, and analysis pipelines, designed to leverage both the distributed data management environment and the available grid computing resources.
Stem cells are the &quot;building blocks&quot; of the body; they are self-renewing undifferentiated cells that give rise to the specialized cells of the tissues. In adult, stem cells are multipotent, they contribute to homeostasis of the tissues and regeneration after injury. Until recently, it was believed that the adult brain was devoid of stem cells, hence unable to make new neurons and regenerate. The recent confirmation that neurogenesis occurs in the adult brain and neural stem cells (NSCs) reside in the adult central nervous system (CNS) suggests that the adult brain has the potential to regenerate and may be amenable to repair. The advent of adult neurogenesis and NSC research will redefine our understanding of the physio- and pathology of the nervous system, and provide new avenues and opportunities to treat a broad range of neurological diseases, disorders and injuries. Adult NSC-based therapies will involve cellular therapy, but also pharmacology.
In this prospective study, we determined HER-2 status in primary breast invasive carcinomas and in the paired lymph node metastases (synchronous and metachronous), local recurrence and metachronous distant metastases, to verify the percentage of discordant cases. HercepTest and Fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) were used to determine HER-2 status on 119 cases of primary infiltrating breast carcinoma and paired metastases (45 cases with synchronous lymph node metastases, 9 cases with metachronous lymph node metastases, 30 cases with local recurrence, and 35 cases with metachronous distant metastases). A therapeutically significant HER-2 status discordance was demonstrated between primary carcinoma and synchronous lymph node metastases (6.7%), local recurrence (13.3%) and metachronous distant metastases (28.6%). In the first comparison, there was a normal HER-2 status in primary tumours and HER-2 amplification in paired metastases, in the second the opposite phenomenon was present, and both types of discordance were evident in the third comparison. Considering the cases of local recurrences and metachronous distant metastases all together, 14 out of 65 cases (21.5%) showed a therapeutically significant discordance of HER-2 status between the primary tumour and the paired metachronous recurrence or metastasis (p &lt; 0.001), the 15.4% of cases showing normal HER-2 status in the primary tumour and HER-2 amplification in the neoplastic relapse. For the treatment of metastatic patients, the evaluation of HER-2 status should be performed in neoplastic tissue from metastatic site, whenever possible. This procedure could be also suggested in the patients that are metastatic at the time of diagnosis.

The mechanisms underlying the clinical properties of atypical antipsychotics have been postulated to be mediated, in part, by interactions with the 5-HT2A receptor. Recently, it has been recognized that clinically effective antipsychotic drugs are 5-HT2A receptor inverse agonists rather than neutral antagonists. In the present study, which is part of the clinical development of the novel, selective 5-HT2A receptor inverse agonist ACP-103, we applied positron emission tomography (PET) with the radioligand [11C]N-methylspiperone ([11C]NMSP) to study the relationship between oral dose, plasma level, and uptake of ACP-103 in living human brain. The safety of drug administration was also assessed. Four healthy volunteers were examined by PET at baseline, and after the oral administration of various single doses of ACP-103. Two subjects each received 1, 5, and 20 mg doses, and two subjects each received 2, 10, and 100 mg doses, respectively. ACP-103 was well tolerated. Detectable receptor binding was observed at very low ACP-103 serum levels. Cortical [11C]NMSP binding was found to be dose-dependent and fitted well to the law of mass action. A reduction in binding was detectable after an oral dose of ACP-103 as low as 1 mg, and reached near maximal displacement following the 10-20 mg dose. In conclusion, administration of ACP-103 to healthy volunteers was found to be safe and well tolerated, and single oral doses as low as 10 mg were found to fully saturate 5-HT2A receptors in human brain as determined by PET.
Electromagnetic fields as measured with electroencephalogram (EEG) are a direct consequence of neuronal activity and feature the same timescale as the underlying cognitive processes, while hemodynamic signals as measured with functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) are related to the energy consumption of neuronal populations. It is obvious that a combination of both techniques is a very attractive aim in neuroscience, in order to achieve both high temporal and spatial resolution for the non-invasive study of cognitive brain function. During the last decade a number of research groups have taken up this challenge. Here, we review the development of the combined EEG-fMRI approach. We summarize the main data integration approaches developed to achieve such a combination, discuss the current state-of-the-art in this field and outline challenges for the future success of this promising approach.

This commentary on Dan Shanahan's, A New View of Language, Emotion and the Brain, basically agrees with an emotion-based view of the evolutionary and developmental basis of language acquisition. It provides a supplementary neuroscience perspective that is more deeply affective and epigenetic in the sense that all claims about neocortically-based language modules need to be tempered by the existing genetic evidence as well as the robust neuroscience evidence that the cortex resembles random-access-memory space, a tabula rasa upon which epigenetic and learning processes create functional networks. The transition from non-linguistic creatures to linguistic ones may have required the conjunction of social-affective brain mechanisms, morphological changes in the articulatory apparatus, an abundance of cross-modal cortical processing ability, and the initial urge to communicate in coordinate prosodic gestural and vocal ways, which may have been more poetic and musical than current propositional language. There may be no language instinct that is independent of these evolutionary pre-adaptations.


The honeybee, Apis mellifera, has been the most important insect species for the study of social behaviour. With the recent release of its genome sequence, the honeybee has emerged as an excellent model for molecular studies of social behaviour. A key feature of eusocial species is a complex division of labour. Adult honeybees perform a series of tasks in the hive when they are young and then shift to foraging for nectar or pollen outside the hive when they are 2-3 weeks of age. This transition from working in the hive to foraging involves changes in the expression of thousands of genes. In this review, we focus first on recent advances in understanding of the widespread changes in gene activity that accompany the transition to foraging. Thereafter, we examine three genes in particular, foraging, malvolio and vitellogenin, all implicated in this striking behavioural change in the life of the honeybee.

Crayfish establish social dominance hierarchies through agonistic interactions, and these hierarchies are maintained through assessment of social status. Chemical signals influence several aspects of fighting behavior, but the specific chemosensory sensilla involved in detecting these signals in crayfish are unknown. The goal of our study was to examine the importance of aesthetasc sensilla--olfactory sensors on the antennules of decapod crustaceans--in regulating changes in fighting behavior in crayfish, Procambarus clarkii, over the course of repeated pairings. We selectively ablated aesthetascs from pairs of crayfish after the first day of trials and compared the behavior of these ablated animals to that of pairs of intact controls. Results show that unablated crayfish significantly decreased the number and duration of fights over repeated pairings, whereas crayfish lacking aesthetascs continued to engage in similar amounts of fighting across all three trial days. This difference shows that aesthetascs regulate fighting behavior in P. clarkii.


Statins are widely used as medication to lower cholesterol levels in human patients. In addition, it was recently reported that they also reduce the incidence of stroke and progression of Alzheimer's disease when prophylactically administered. To date there is only limited information available on how statins exert this beneficial effect. In this study we investigated the neuroprotective effect of lovastatin in primary cortical neurons. We found that lovastatin protects cortical neurons in a concentration-dependent manner against glutamate-mediated excitotoxicity. Interestingly, lovastatin with or without glutamate and/or tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha) increased TNF receptor 2 (TNF-R2) expression in cortical neurons. It was previously shown that activation of TNF-R2 signaling, which includes phosphorylation of protein kinase B (PKB)/Akt and activation of nuclear factor-kappa B (NF-kappaB), protects neurons against ischemic or excitotoxic insults. To investigate if lovastatin-induced neuroprotection was mediated by TNF-R2 signaling, primary cortical neurons were isolated from TNF-R1(-/-) or TNF-R2(-/-) mice. We could show that lovastatin is neuroprotective in TNF-R1(-/-) neurons, while protection is completely absent in TNF-R2(-/-) neurons. Furthermore, lovastatin-mediated neuroprotection led to an increase in PKB/Akt and NF-kappaB phosphorylation, whereas inhibition of PKB/Akt activation entirely abolished lovastatin-induced neuroprotection. Thus, lovastatin-induced neuroprotection against glutamate-excitotoxicity via activation of TNF-R2-signaling pathways.

To examine the nature of hemispheric lateralization for neural processes underlying verbal fluency and visuo-spatial attention, we investigated a single pair of handedness discordant monozygotic (MzHd) twins. Imaging of the brain was undertaken using magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) in combination with manual performance tasks. The twins were discordant for MRI anatomical asymmetries of the pars triangularis and planum temporale, whose asymmetry was consistent with verbal laterality on fMRI. Thus, the right-handed twin had left lateralized verbal with right lateralized visuo-spatial attention, while the left-handed twin had right lateralized verbal with left lateralized visuo-spatial activation; these data lend further support for to the conclusions of Sommer et al.
Subjects with PDD excel on certain visuo-spatial tasks, amongst which visual search tasks, and this has been attributed to enhanced perceptual discrimination. However, an alternative explanation is that subjects with PDD show a different, more effective search strategy. The present study aimed to test both hypotheses, by measuring eye movements during visual search tasks in high functioning adult men with PDD and a control group. Subjects with PDD were significantly faster than controls in these tasks, replicating earlier findings in children. Eye movement data showed that subjects with PDD made fewer eye movements than controls. No evidence was found for a different search strategy between the groups. The data indicate an enhanced ability to discriminate between stimulus elements in PDD.
A method is presented for decreasing radiant exposures required for photocoagulation of cutaneous blood vessels using a hyperosmotic agent applied to skin prior to laser irradiation. The 50% probability for a given radiant exposure (RE50) to result in photocoagulation of vessels classified by type (arteriole, venule) and diameter was determined following direct (subcutaneous) laser irradiation of 84 vessels in a dorsal skin preparation pretreated with glycerol. Values were compared against results without glycerol pretreatment. A second set of experiments involved irradiation of blood vessels through the skin from the epidermal surface after application of glycerol. Subcutaneous RE50s for vessels treated with glycerol were typically several factors lower than untreated vessels. For example, arterioles in the 80- to 110-microm-diam range in untreated skin had RE50 values approximately 12 J/cm(2), compared to approximately 2 J/cm(2) in glycerol-treated cases. Results from epidermal irradiations also indicate that pretreatment with glycerol decreases radiant exposures required for photocoagulation. Vessels were successfully coagulated from the epidermal side in glycerol-treated samples using radiant exposures ranging from 1.6 J/cm(2) to 5 Jcm(2), compared to the 12 to &gt;16 J/cm(2) range for control cases. We believe that this method could be a powerful technique for reducing the radiant exposures required for vessel photocoagulation.

To ensure successful replication, HIV-1 has developed a Rev-mediated RNA transport system that promotes the export of unspliced genomic RNA from nuclei to cytoplasm. This process requires the Rev responsive element (RRE) that is positioned in the viral transcript encoding Env protein, as well as in unspliced and singly spliced viral transcripts. We identified Puralpha, a single-stranded nucleic acid binding protein as a cellular partner for Rev that augments the appearance of unspliced viral RNAs in the cytoplasm. A decrease in the level of Puralpha expression by siRNA diminishes the level of Rev-dependent expression of viral RNA. Through its nucleic acid binding domain, Puralpha exhibits the ability to interact with the multimerization and RBD domains of Rev. Similar to Rev, Puralpha associates with RRE and in the presence of Rev forms a complex with slower electrophoretic mobility than those from Rev:RRE and Puralpha:RRE. The interaction of Puralpha with RRE occurs in the cytoplasm where enhanced association of Rev with RRE is observed. Our data indicate that the partnership of Puralpha with Rev is beneficial for Rev-mediated expression of the HIV-1 genome.
Injury to the brain (e.g., stroke) results in a disruption of neuronal connectivity and loss of fundamental sensori-motor functions. The subsequent recovery of certain functions involves structural rearrangements in areas adjacent to the infarct. This remodeling of the injured brain requires trafficking of macromolecular components including cholesterol and phospholipids, a transport carried out by apolipoproteins including apolipoprotein D (apoD). We investigated the changes in the levels of apoD mRNA and protein, and its cellular localization during a recovery period up to 30 days after experimental stroke in the rat brain. In the core of the brain infarct, apoD immunoreactivity but not mRNA increased in dying pyramidal neurons, indicative of cellular redistribution of lipids. During 2 to 7 days of recovery after stroke, the apoD levels increased in the peri-infarct and white matter areas in cells identified as mature oligodendrocytes. The apoD expressing cells were conspicuously located along the rim of the infarct, suggesting a role for apoD in tissue repair. Furthermore, housing animals in an enriched environment improved sensori-motor function and increased the apoD levels. Our data strongly suggest that apoD is involved in regenerative processes and scar formation in the peri-infarct area presumably by enhancing lipid trafficking.
Reactive astrocytes are thought to protect the penumbra during brain ischemia, but direct evidence has been lacking due to the absence of suitable experimental models. Previously, we generated mice deficient in two intermediate filament (IF) proteins, glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) and vimentin, whose upregulation is the hallmark of reactive astrocytes. GFAP(-/-)Vim(-/-) mice exhibit attenuated posttraumatic reactive gliosis, improved integration of neural grafts, and posttraumatic regeneration. Seven days after middle cerebral artery (MCA) transection, infarct volume was 210 to 350% higher in GFAP(-/-)Vim(-/-) than in wild-type (WT) mice; GFAP(-/-), Vim(-/-) and WT mice had the same infarct volume. Endothelin B receptor (ET(B)R) immunoreactivity was strong on cultured astrocytes and reactive astrocytes around infarct in WT mice but undetectable in GFAP(-/-)Vim(-/-) astrocytes. In WT astrocytes, ET(B)R colocalized extensively with bundles of IFs. GFAP(-/-)Vim(-/-) astrocytes showed attenuated endothelin-3-induced blockage of gap junctions. Total and glutamate transporter-1 (GLT-1)-mediated glutamate transport was lower in GFAP(-/-)Vim(-/-) than in WT mice. DNA array analysis and quantitative real-time PCR showed downregulation of plasminogen activator inhibitor-1 (PAI-1), an inhibitor of tissue plasminogen activator. Thus, reactive astrocytes have a protective role in brain ischemia, and the absence of astrocyte IFs is linked to changes in glutamate transport, ET(B)R-mediated control of gap junctions, and PAI-1 expression.
Many therapies have shown promise in preclinical stroke studies, but few benefit patients. A greater understanding of stroke pathophysiology is needed to successfully develop therapies, and this depends on appropriate animal models. The collagenase and blood infusion models of intracerebral hemorrhage (ICH) are widely used; yet, investigators often prefer using one model for a variety of reasons. Thus, we directly compared these to highlight advantages and limitations of each as well as the assessment approach. An ICH was created by infusing blood or bacterial collagenase into the rats' striatum. We matched initial hematoma volume in each model (Experiment 1) and assessed the time course of bleeding (Experiment 2). Functional deficits and the progression of injury were tracked over 6 weeks using behavior, magnetic resonance imaging, and histology (Experiment 3). Despite similar initial hematoma volumes, collagenase-induced ICH resulted in a greater blood-brain barrier breakdown and more damage to the striatum, substantia nigra, white matter, and cortex. Magnetic resonance imaging revealed faster hematoma resolution in the blood model, and little increase in the volume of tissue lost from 1 to 6 weeks. In contrast, tissue loss continued over 4 weeks in the collagenase model. Finally, functional deficits recovered more quickly and completely in the blood model. This study highlights key differences between these models and that neither closely replicates the human condition. Thus, both should be used whenever possible taking into account the significant differences between these models and their limitations. Furthermore, this work illustrates significant weaknesses with several outcome measures.
Cell death after traumatic brain injury (TBI) evolves over days to weeks. Despite advances in understanding biochemical mechanisms that contribute to posttraumatic brain cell death, the time course of cell injury, death, and removal remains incompletely characterized in experimental TBI models. In a mouse controlled cortical impact (CCI) model, plasmalemma permeability to propidium iodide (PI) was an early and persistent feature of posttraumatic cellular injury in cortex and hippocampus. In cortical and hippocampal brain regions known to be vulnerable to traumatic cell death, the number of PI+ cells peaked early after CCI, and increased with increasing injury severity in hippocampus but not cortex (P&lt;0.05). Propidium iodide labeling correlated strongly with hematoxylin and eosin staining in injured cells (r=0.99, P&lt;0.001), suggesting that plasmalemma damage portends fatal cellular injury. Using PI pulse labeling to identify and follow the fate of a cohort of injured cells, we found that many PI+ cells recovered plasmalemma integrity by 24 h and were terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase-mediated biotinylated UTP nick end labeling negative, but nonetheless disappeared from injured brain by 7 days. Propidium iodide-positive cells in dentate gyrus showed significant ultrastructural damage, including plasmalemma and nuclear membrane damage or overt membrane loss, in all cells when examined by laser capture microdissection and transmission electron microscopy 1 to 24 h after CCI. The data suggest that plasmalemma damage is a fundamental marker of cellular injury after CCI; some injured cells might have an extended window for potential rescue by neuroprotective strategies.
Autism is an etiologic heterogeneous entity caused by many different diseases occurring in the central nervous system at an early stage in life. Several metabolic defects have been associated with autistic symptoms with a rate higher than that found in the general population. Inborn errors of metabolism can probably account for less than 5% of individuals. Selective metabolic testing should be done in the presence of suggestive clinical findings, including lethargy, cyclic vomiting, early seizures, dysmorphic features, and mental retardation. In some patients, early diagnosis of the metabolic disorders and proper therapeutic interventions may significantly improve the long-term cognitive and behavioral outcome.
Despite its early discovery and high sequence homology to the other VEGF family members, the biological functions of VEGF-B remain poorly understood. We revealed here a novel function for VEGF-B as a potent inhibitor of apoptosis. Using gene expression profiling of mouse primary aortic smooth muscle cells, and confirming the results by real-time PCR using mouse and rat cell lines, we showed that VEGF-B inhibited the expression of genes encoding the proapoptotic BH3-only proteins and other apoptosis- and cell death-related proteins, including p53 and members of the caspase family, via activation of VEGFR-1. Consistent with this, VEGF-B treatment rescued neurons from apoptosis in the retina and brain in mouse models of ocular neurodegenerative disorders and stroke, respectively. Interestingly, VEGF-B treatment at the dose effective for neuronal survival did not cause retinal neovascularization, suggesting that VEGF-B is the first member of the VEGF family that has a potent antiapoptotic effect while lacking a general angiogenic activity. These findings indicate that VEGF-B may potentially offer a new therapeutic option for the treatment of neurodegenerative diseases.

The neural (blood oxygenation level dependent) correlates of motor coordination of both hands were studied in adult right-handed volunteers and patients with spinocerebellar ataxia 1 (SCA1), using functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) of the entire brain. Each experimental condition consisted of five sets of alternate pronation and supination tasks for either hand in a prescribed sequence as the active phase followed by a period of rest. An intricate network consisting of sensorimotor cortex, supplementary motor area (SMA), cingulate motor area (CMA), putamina and cerebellum, was identified when the task was performed in healthy volunteers. However, cerebellar activity was largely absent with additional activity in contralateral cortices and in thalami in patients with SCA1. This apparent decoupling of sensorimotor cortical and cerebellar areas during coordinated movement in patients with SCA1, suggests that cortico-cerebellar loops may be malfunctioning in SCA1.
This paper is a case report of Terson's Syndrome (TS) in spontaneous spinal subarachnoid haemorrhage (SAH). A 66-year-old woman with acute onset of severe back pain was transferred to our institution for management of her sciatica. The presence of an intraretinal haemorrhage alerted us to consider intracranial SAH, but investigations showed no intracranial source. Eventually, the patient was diagnosed with a thoracic spinal SAH. The patient's symptoms gradually improved with conservative management but within 1 month she had a recurrence. A spinal and CT angiogram did not elicit the aetiology. The diagnosis of spontaneous spinal SAH can be difficult. The recognition of TS has important prognostic implications, often heralding subarachnoid rebleeding. Fundoscopic examination appears mandatory as a tool for diagnosis and regular non-invasive monitoring of patients with SAH.
The aim of this study was to evaluate and describe the importance of neurological complications in patients with a confirmed diagnosis of porphyria. Clinical details are presented for a cohort of 14 patients who presented with one of four categories of symptoms: seizures, polyneuropathy, transient sensory-motor symptoms and cognitive or behavioural abnormalities. Ascertainment of porphyria was often incidental and in many patients neurological complications preceded the definitive biochemical diagnosis. Porphyria is a group of diseases whose clinical picture is often complex and heterogeneous, but neurological complications are not uncommon. When indicated, differential diagnosis of neurological signs and symptoms should include porphyria, as the incidence of the disease is probably underestimated. Part of the clinical picture can be transient and it is often initially disregarded. A family history and recurrence of otherwise unexplained neurological symptoms should alert the clinician to a possible diagnosis of porphyria for patients with neurological presentations.
Despite a century of work on the subject, controversy still exists as to the physiological relevance of the Cushing response (CR), a state of raised systemic blood pressure and bradycardia associated with raised intracranial pressure. The alternative that has been proposed to the classical belief of pre-terminal brainstem damage is of a baroreflex that attempts to maintain cerebral perfusion in response to situations of extreme elevations in intracranial pressure or brainstem ischemia. We report a patient with spontaneous subarachnoid haemorrhage who demonstrated CR, which was later seen to self-abort with an eventual good outcome. We review the existing literature and propose that our clinical case may provide further support for a physiological role of CR.
When operations for brain tumours became possible, exact charting of visual field defects assumed great importance in diagnosis and in monitoring post-operative progress. This process, known as quantitative perimetry, was energetically practised and taught by Harvey Cushing and by many of his pupils. The advent of non-invasive methods of imaging the brain and the rise of neuro-ophthalmology as an independent discipline were associated with a decline in neurosurgical commitment to quantitative perimetry, but it remains an important branch of the clinical neurosciences.
ABSTRACT Perception and understanding of dispositions and intentions of others through their actions are of immense importance for adaptive daily-life behavior and social communication. Here we ask whether, and, if so, how this ability is impaired in adolescents who were born premature and suffer early periventricular damage, periventricular leukomalacia (PVL) that affects brain connectivity. The visual event arrangement (EA) task was administered to PVL patients and two control groups, premature-born and term-born adolescents without brain abnormalities on a magnetic resonance imaging scan. Performance on the EA task was significantly lower in PVL patients as compared with controls. No difference was found between premature-born participants without lesions and term-born controls. Performance on the EA task was inversely related to the volumetric extent of lesions in the parieto-occipital regions of both hemispheres and, in particular, to the right temporal periventricular lesions. Whereas our earlier work reveals that compromised visual processing of biological motion, impairments in visual navigation, and other visual-perceptual disabilities in PVL patients are associated with parieto-occipital lesions, difficulties in the visual EA task solely are specifically linked to the right temporal periventricular lesions. For the first time, we show that the severity of the right temporal PVL can serve as a predictor of the ability for perception and understanding of others' actions. We assume that impairments in this ability in PVL patients are caused by disrupted brain connectivity to the right temporal cortex, a key node of the social brain.
Explanations of psychological phenomena seem to generate more public interest when they contain neuroscientific information. Even irrelevant neuroscience information in an explanation of a psychological phenomenon may interfere with people's abilities to critically consider the underlying logic of this explanation. We tested this hypothesis by giving nave adults, students in a neuroscience course, and neuroscience experts brief descriptions of psychological phenomena followed by one of four types of explanation, according to a 2 (good explanation vs. bad explanation) x 2 (without neuroscience vs. with neuroscience) design. Crucially, the neuroscience information was irrelevant to the logic of the explanation, as confirmed by the expert subjects. Subjects in all three groups judged good explanations as more satisfying than bad ones. But subjects in the two nonexpert groups additionally judged that explanations with logically irrelevant neuroscience information were more satisfying than explanations without. The neuroscience information had a particularly striking effect on nonexperts' judgments of bad explanations, masking otherwise salient problems in these explanations.
Converging evidence from neuroscience suggests that our attention to the outside world waxes and wanes over time. We examined whether these periods of &quot;mind wandering&quot; are associated with reduced cortical analysis of the external environment. Participants performed a sustained attention to response task in which they responded to frequent &quot;nontargets&quot; (digits 0-9) and withheld responses for infrequent &quot;targets&quot; (the letter X). Mind wandering was defined both behaviorally, indicated by a failure to withhold a response to a target, and subjectively, via self-report at a thought probe. The P300 event-related potential component for nontargets was reduced prior to both the behavioral and subjective reports of mind wandering, relative to periods of being &quot;on-task.&quot; Regression analysis of P300 amplitude revealed significant common variance between behavioral and subjective markers of mind wandering, suggesting that both markers reflect a common underlying mental state. Finally, control analysis revealed that the effect of mind wandering on the P300 could not be ascribed to changes in motor activity nor was it associated with general arousal. Our data suggest that when trying to engage attention in a sustained manner, the mind will naturally ebb and flow in the depth of cognitive analysis it applies to events in the external environment.

In spinal neurons, plateau potentials serve to amplify neuronal input signals. To a large extent, the underlying persistent inward current is mediated by a subtype of the L-type calcium channel (Ca(V)1.3). In the present investigation, we have studied its distribution and cellular localization in the cat spinal cord by light and electron microscopic immunohistochemistry. The results show that Ca(V)1.3-like immunoreactivity is widely distributed in all segments of the spinal cord but that the distribution in the different laminae of the spinal gray matter varies, with the highest density of labeled neurons in lamina IX and the lowest in lamina II. The labeling intensity was highest in neuronal somata, but a certain length of the proximal dendrite was also labeled. Some neuronal groups exhibited a particularly dense labeling; these include the lateral motoneuronal group in the cervical and the lumbar enlargements and the phrenic nucleus in cervical, Clarke's nucleus in lower thoracic and upper lumbar, and Onuf's nucleus in upper sacral segments. At the ultrastructural level, Ca(V)1.3-immunoreactive products were found in neuronal somata and dendrites of different sizes. In the soma, they were predominantly associated with the rough endoplasmic reticulum but some also with the plasma membrane. In dendrites, they were associated with both intracellular organelles, including microtubules and microchondria, and the plasma membrane. These results indicate that significant proportions of the neurons in cat spinal cord, including projection neurons, interneurons, and motoneurons, are endowed with ion channels that subserve persistent inward currents and act to amplify synaptic input signals.
The &quot;noses&quot; of diverse taxa are organized into different subsystems whose functions are often not well understood. The &quot;nose&quot; of decapod crustaceans is organized into two parallel pathways that originate in different populations of antennular sensilla and project to specific neuropils in the brain-the aesthetasc/olfactory lobe pathway and the non-aesthetasc/lateral antennular neuropil pathway. In this study, we investigated the role of these pathways in mediating shelter selection of Caribbean spiny lobsters, Panulirus argus, in response to conspecific urine signals. We compared the behavior of ablated animals and intact controls. Our results show that control and non-aesthetasc ablated lobsters have a significant overall preference for shelters emanating urine over control shelters. Thus the non-aesthetasc pathway does not play a critical role in shelter selection. In contrast, spiny lobsters with aesthetascs ablated did not show a preference for either shelter, suggesting that the aesthetasc/olfactory pathway is important for processing social odors. Our results show a difference in the function of these dual chemosensory pathways in responding to social cues, with the aesthetasc/olfactory lobe pathway playing a major role. We discuss our results in the context of why the noses of many animals contain multiple parallel chemosensory systems.

Neuronal network flexibility enables animals to respond appropriately to changes in their internal and external states. We are using the isolated crab stomatogastric nervous system to determine how extrinsic inputs contribute to network flexibility. The stomatogastric system includes the well-characterized gastric mill (chewing) and pyloric (filtering of chewed food) motor circuits in the stomatogastric ganglion. Projection neurons with somata in the commissural ganglia (CoGs) regulate these rhythms. Previous work characterized a unique gastric mill rhythm that occurred spontaneously in some preparations, but whose origin remained undetermined. This rhythm includes a distinct protractor phase activity pattern, during which a key gastric mill circuit neuron (LG neuron) and the projection neurons MCN1 and CPN2 fire in a pyloric rhythm-timed activity pattern instead of the tonic firing pattern exhibited by these neurons during previously studied gastric mill rhythms. Here we identify a new extrinsic input, the post-oesophageal commissure (POC) neurons, relatively brief stimulation (30 s) of which triggers a long-lasting (tens of minutes) activation of this novel gastric mill rhythm at least in part via its lasting activation of MCN1 and CPN2. Immunocytochemical and electrophysiological data suggest that the POC neurons excite MCN1 and CPN2 by release of the neuropeptide Cancer borealis tachykinin-related peptide Ia (CabTRP Ia). These data further suggest that the CoG arborization of the POC neurons comprises the previously identified anterior commissural organ (ACO), a CabTRP Ia-containing neurohemal organ. This endocrine organ thus appears to also have paracrine actions, including activation of a novel and lasting gastric mill rhythm.
Glutamate is a key regulatory neurotransmitter in the triphasic central pattern generator controlling feeding behavior in the pond snail, Helisoma trivolvis. It excites phase two motor neurons while inhibiting those in phases one and three. However, the receptors that mediate this regulation are only partially characterized. The purpose of these experiments was to further characterize the glutamate receptors on three buccal neurons modulated by glutamate. Intracellular recordings from B5, B19 and B27 neurons were taken during the perfusion of isolated buccal ganglia with agonists that are selective for different vertebrate glutamate receptors. The firing rate of all three neurons was inhibited in a dose-dependent manner by glutamate, including that of B27, a phase 2 motor neuron known to be excited by glutamate in vivo. Quisqualate also reduced the firing rate in all three neurons, and (1S,3R)-1-aminocyclopentane-1,3-dicarboxylic acid (ACPD), a relatively non-selective metabotropic glutamate receptor (mGluR) agonist, reduced the firing rate in B5 neurons, but not in B19 or B27 neurons. Agonists selective for vertebrate group I, II and III mGluRs did not affect the firing rate in any of the Helisoma buccal neurons tested, suggesting that mGluR agonist binding sites on these neurons do not closely resemble those on any vertebrate mGluR subtypes. An increase in frequency of action potentials was observed in all three cell types in the presence of 100 micromol l(-1) kainate (KA), suggesting the presence of excitatory (S)-alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionic acid (AMPA)/KA-like receptors. However, electrotonic coupling between B19 and B27 neurons, and a lack of effect of KA on isolated B19 neurons suggest the excitatory effects of KA on this neuron are indirect. These findings suggest the presence of multiple glutamate receptor subtypes in molluscan neurons that do not always resemble vertebrate receptors pharmacologically.

The removal of 18,345 specified risk materials was observed during audits of 18 U.S. beef processing facilities that, in total, account for over 90% of total U.S. beef slaughtered. Audited plants varied in capacity (280 to 6,000 head per day) and processed both &quot;fed (young cattle)&quot; and &quot;nonfed (mature cows/bulls)&quot; cattle. When all observations for removal of specified risk materials were combined from plants and adjusted for type of cattle processed, overall compliance with specified risk material removal regulations was 98.08%. A 100% compliance rate for removal of brains and distal ileums was recorded based on a total of 600 observations for removal of brains and a total of 2,400 observations for removal of distal ileums. Observations for removal of dorsal root ganglia were collected from 16 of the 18 plants, and overall compliance for dorsal root ganglia removal was 99.6% (4,783 of 4,800). Fifteen of the 16 plants were 100% compliant. For tonsils, data from 18 plants were collected, and tonsils were correctly removed from 92.8% (4,777 of 5,145) of tongues and heads. Data for spinal cord removal were collected from 18 plants, and the spinal cord was removed completely in line with U.S. Department of Agriculture-Food Safety and Inspection Service regulations for 99.43% of the observations. Based on the results of this study, packing plants have demonstrated that they are complying with regulations for removal of specified risk materials from beef meat products intended for human consumption greater than 98% of the time. To continue to assure food safety and consumer confidence, continued vigilance and provision of training programs for plant workers are essential.
We report the case of a 24-year-old woman who presented unilateral extensive peripapillary myelinated nerve fibers associated with macular pseudohole and bilateral low myopia. Visual acuity, slit lamp biomicroscopy, automated perimetry, fundus color photography, and optical coherence tomography (Stratus OCT) were performed. We discuss the clinical findings and diagnostic details of unilateral extensive peripapillary myelinated nerve fibers associated with macular pseudohole.
This study examined the ability of computerized maze test performance to predict the road test performance of cognitively impaired and normal older drivers. The authors examined 133 older drivers, including 65 with probable Alzheimer disease, 23 with possible Alzheimer disease, and 45 control subjects without cognitive impairment. Subjects completed 5 computerized maze tasks employing a touch screen and pointer as well as a battery of standard neuropsychological tests. Parameters measured for mazes included errors, planning time, drawing time, and total time. Within 2 weeks, subjects were examined by a professional driving instructor on a standardized road test modeled after the Washington University Road Test. Road test total score was significantly correlated with total time across the 5 mazes. This maze score was significant for both Alzheimer disease subjects and control subjects. One maze in particular, requiring less than 2 minutes to complete, was highly correlated with driving performance. For the standard neuropsychological tests, highest correlations were seen with Trail Making A (TrailsA) and the Hopkins Verbal Learning Tests Trial 1 (HVLT1). Multiple regression models for road test score using stepwise subtraction of maze and neuropsychological test variables revealed significant independent contributions for total maze time, HVLT1, and TrailsA for the entire group; total maze time and HVLT1 for Alzheimer disease subjects; and TrailsA for normal subjects. As a visual analog of driving, a brief computerized test of maze navigation time compares well to standard neuropsychological tests of psychomotor speed, scanning, attention, and working memory as a predictor of driving performance by persons with early Alzheimer disease and normal elders. Measurement of maze task performance appears to be useful in the assessment of older drivers at risk for hazardous driving.
Presentation of Ag bound to MHC class II (MHC II) molecules to CD4+ T cells is a key event in adaptive immune responses. Genetic differences in MHC II expression in the rat CNS were recently positioned to allelic variability in the CIITA gene (Mhc2ta), located within the Vra4 locus on rat chromosome 10. In this study, we have examined reciprocal Vra4-congenic strains on the DA and PVGav1 backgrounds, respectively. After experimental nerve injury the strain-specific MHC II expression on microglia was reversed in the congenic strains. Similar findings were obtained after intraparenchymal injection of IFN-gamma in the brain. Expression of MHC class II was also lower on B cells and dendritic cells from the DA.PVGav1-Vra4- congenic strain compared with DA rats after in vitro stimulation with IFN-gamma. We next explored whether Vra4 may affect the outcome of experimental autoimmune disease. In experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis induced by immunization with myelin oligodendrocyte glycoprotein, DA.PVGav1-Vra4 rats displayed a lower disease incidence and milder disease course compared with DA, whereas both PVGav1 and PVGav1.DA-Vra4 rats were completely protected. These results demonstrate that naturally occurring allelic differences in Mhc2ta have profound effects on the quantity of MHC II expression in the CNS and on immune cells and that this genetic variability also modulates susceptibility to autoimmune neuroinflammation.
We investigated verb generation in children with spina bifida meningomyelocele (SBM; n = 55) and in typically developing controls (n = 32). Participants completed 6 blocks (40 trials each) of a task requiring them to produce a semantically related verb in response to a target noun and an additional 40 trials on which they were simply required to read target nouns aloud. After controlling for reading response time, groups did not differ significantly in verb generation response time or learning. Children with SBM produced more non-verb errors than controls and tended to repeat their mistakes over blocks. Verb generation performance was associated with brain volume measures in participants with SBM. Congenital cerebellar dysmorphology is associated with impaired performance in verb generation accuracy, although not with increased response times to produce verbs
This commentary article extends Vimal's [J Integr Neurosci 7:49-73, 2008] concept of protoexperience by outlining a two-factor approach to the localization of consciousness within the physical matter of the brain consistent with contemporary theoretical physics, molecular and system biology, and neuroscience. Specific hypotheses based on this approach predict on clearly stated grounds the occurrence or non-occurrence, and degrees of intensity of consciousness within the human brain and possibly in related species based on the combination of protoconsciousness with energetic activating agents. In this it comprises a mechanics of consciousness.
The preservation of residual hearing is becoming a high priority in cochlear implant surgery. It allows better speech understanding and ensures long-lasting and stable performance; it also allows the possibility, in selected cases, of combining electro-acoustic stimulation in the same ear. We present the results of a retrospective study of the conservation of residual hearing in three different groups of patients who had undergone cochlear implantation using three different cochlear implant electrode arrays, combined with three different surgical techniques for the cochleostomy. The study aimed to evaluate which approach allowed greater preservation of residual hearing. The best residual hearing preservation results (i.e. preservation in 81.8 per cent of patients) were achieved with the Contour Advance electrode array, using the Advance Off-Stylet technique and performing a modified anterior inferior cochleostomy; this combination enabled reduced trauma to the lateral wall of the cochlea during electrode insertion.

This study examined the effects of eicosapentaenoic acid (EPA) and arachidonic acid (AA) on inflammation mediators during osteoblastogenesis, in terms of modulation of the cyclooxygenase (COX)-2 and the inducible nitric oxide (NO) synthase (iNOS) pathways. We hypothesized that n-3 polyunsaturated fatty acid (PUFA) would reduce the production of inflammation mediators, including prostaglandin E(2) (PGE(2)) and NO, and related mRNA gene expression during osteoblastogenesis. Mouse bone marrow stromal cells (ST-2) were treated with 40 microM ethanol (as a control), 40 microM AA, or 40 microM EPA in osteogenic medium for 7, 14, 21, or 28 days. Prior to harvest, cells were treated with respective treatments along with cytokine mixtures for an additional 24 hours, and then cells were harvested for mRNA expression. In addition, cells were also treated with respective treatments along with the same cytokine mixtures for an additional 48 hours for experiment measuring PGE(2) and NO production using conditioned culture medium and protein expression using cells. Except for 7 days of culture, AA treatment resulted in the highest value for PGE(2) production throughout 28 days of culture. AA treatment also enhanced COX-2 mRNA expression up to 21 days. AA treatment resulted in a higher value for NO production after 7 days, while EPA treatment yielded a higher value for NO production relative to those receiving AA treatment after 14 and 21 days. Our investigation has corroborated that the protective action of EPA on osteoblastogenesis was mediated by the modulation of PGE(2) and the NO pathway.
Lectin-like oxidized low-density lipoprotein receptor-1 (LOX-1), encoded by the OLR1 gene, is a scavenger receptor that plays a central role in the pathogenesis of atherosclerosis. We have recently identified a truncated naturally occurring variant of the human receptor LOX-1, named LOXIN, which lacks part of the C-terminus lectin-like domain. In vivo and in vitro studies support that the new splicing isoform is protective against acute myocardial infarction. The mechanism by which LOXIN exerts its protective role is unknown. In this paper we report studies on the heterologous expression and functional characterization of LOXIN variant in mammalian fibroblasts and human endothelial cells. We found that LOXIN, when expressed in the absence of LOX-1, shows diminished plasma membrane localization and is deficient in ox-LDL ligand binding. When co-transfected with the full-length counterpart LOX-1, the two isoforms interact to form LOX-1 oligomers and their interaction leads to a decrease in the appearance of LOX-1 receptors in the plasma membrane and a marked impairment of ox-LDL binding and uptake. Co-immunoprecipitation studies confirmed the molecular LOX-1/LOXIN interaction and the formation of non-functional hetero-oligomers. Our studies suggest that hetero-oligomerization between naturally occurring isoforms of LOX-1 may represent a general paradigm for regulation of LOX-1 function by its variants.
A half-day forum to address a wide range of issues related to translational neural engineering was conducted at the annual meeting of the Biomedical Engineering Society. Successful practitioners of translational neural engineering from academics, clinical medicine and industry were invited to share a diversity of perspectives and experiences on the translational process. The forum was targeted towards traditional academic researchers who may be interested in the expanded funding opportunities available for translational research that emphasizes product commercialization and clinical implementation. The seminar was funded by the NIH with support from the Rehabilitation Institute of Chicago. We report here a summary of the speaker viewpoints with particular focus on extracting successful strategies for engaging in or conducting translational neural engineering research. Daryl Kipke, PhD, (Department of Biomedical Engineering at the University of Michigan) and Molly Shoichet, PhD, (Department of Chemical Engineering at the University of Toronto) gave details of their extensive experience with product commercialization while holding primary appointments in academic departments. They both encouraged strong clinical input at very early stages of research. Neurosurgeon Fady Charbel, MD, (Department of Neurosurgery at the University of Illinois at Chicago) discussed his role in product commercialization as a clinician. Todd Kuiken, MD, PhD, (Director of the Neural Engineering for Artificial Limbs at the Rehabilitation Institute of Chicago, affiliated with Northwestern University) also a clinician, described a model of translational engineering that emphasized the development of clinically relevant technology, without a strong commercialization imperative. The clinicians emphasized the importance of communicating effectively with engineers. Representing commercial neural engineering was Doug Sheffield, PhD, (Director of New Technology at Vertis Neuroscience, Inc.) who strongly encouraged open industrial-academic partnerships as an efficient path forward in the translational process. Joe Pancrazio, PhD, a Program Director at NIH's National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke, emphasized that NIH funding for translational research was aimed at breaking down scientific barriers to clinic entrance. Vivian Weil, PhD, (Director of Center for the Study of Ethics in the Professions at the Illinois Institute of Technology) a specialist on ethics in science and engineering, spoke of the usefulness of developing a code of ethics for addressing ethical aspects of translation from the bench to clinical implementation and of translation across disciplines in multi-disciplinary projects. Finally, the patient perspective was represented by Mr Jesse Sullivan. A double-arm amputee and patient of Dr Kuiken's, Mr Sullivan demonstrated the critically important role of the patient in successful translational neural engineering research.

Amphetamine (AMPH) and cocaine are indirect dopamine agonists that activate multiple signaling cascades in the striatum. Each cascade has a different subcellular location and duration of action that depend on the strength of the drug stimulus. In addition to activating D1 dopamine-Gs-coupled-protein kinase A signaling, acute psychostimulant administration activates extracellular-regulated kinase transiently in striatal cells; conversely, inhibition of extracellular-regulated kinase phosphorylation decreases the ability of psychostimulants to elevate locomotor behavior and opioid peptide gene expression. Moreover, a drug challenge in rats with a drug history augments and prolongs striatal extracellular-regulated kinase phosphorylation, possibly contributing to behavioral sensitization. In contrast, AMPH activates phosphoinositide-3 kinase substrates, like protein kinase B/Akt, only in the nuclei of striatal cells but this transient increase induced by AMPH is followed by a delayed decrease in protein kinase B/Akt phosphorylation whether or not the rats have a drug history, suggesting that the phosphoinositide-3 kinase pathway is not essential for AMPH-induced behavioral sensitization. Chronic AMPH or cocaine also alters the regulation of inhibitory G protein-coupled receptors in the striatum, as evident by a prolonged decrease in the level of regulator of G protein signaling 4 after non-contingent or contingent (self-administered) drug exposure. This decrease is exacerbated in behaviorally sensitized rats and reversed by re-exposure to a cocaine-paired environment. A decrease in regulator of G protein signaling 4 levels may weaken its interactions with metabotropic glutamate receptor 5, Galphaq, and phospholipase C beta that may enhance drug-induced signaling. Alteration of these protein-protein interactions suggests that the striatum responds to psychostimulants with a complex molecular repertoire that both modulates psychomotor effects and leads to long-term neuroadaptations.
Drosophila transient-receptor-potential (TRP) is a Ca2+ channel responsible for the light-dependent depolarization of photoreceptors. TRP is anchored to a macromolecular complex by tethering to inactivation-no-afterpotential D (INAD). We previously reported that INAD associated with the carboxyl tail of TRP via its third post-synaptic density protein 95, discs-large, zonular occludens-1 domain. In this paper, we further explored the molecular basis of the INAD interaction and demonstrated the requirement of the last 14 residues of TRP, with the critical contribution of Gly1262, Val1266, Trp1274, and Leu1275. We also revealed by pull-down assays that the last 14 residues of TRP comprised the minimal sequence that competes with the endogenous TRP from fly extracts, leading to the co-purification of a partial INAD complex containing INAD, no-receptor-potential A, and eye-protein kinase C (PKC). Eye-PKC is critical for the negative regulation of the visual signaling and was shown to phosphorylate TRP in vivo. To uncover the substrates of eye-PKC in the INAD complex, we designed a complex-dependent eye-PKC assay, which utilized endogenous INAD complexes isolated from flies. We demonstrate that activated eye-PKC phosphorylates INAD, TRP but not no-receptor-potential A. Moreover, phosphorylation of TRP is dependent on the presence of both eye-PKC and INAD. Together, these findings indicate that stable kinase-containing protein complexes may be isolated by pull-down assays, and used in this modified kinase assay to investigate phosphorylation of the proteins in the complex. We conclude that TRP associates with INAD via its last 14 residues to facilitate its regulation by eye-PKC that fine-tunes the visual signaling.
We examined neurodegeneration in spinal cord (SC) and role of such extra-nigral degeneration in MPTP-induced experimental parkinsonism in C57BL/6N mice. HPLC-photodiode array analysis confirmed presence of the active neurotoxin MPP+ in SC after single injection of MPTP (25 mg/kg, i.p.). Mitochondrial enzyme monoamine oxidase-B (MAO-B) responsible for in vivo conversion of MPTP to MPP+ was inhibited in SC by pre-treatment with l-deprenyl, a specific inhibitor of MAO-B. Besides in vitro conversion of MPTP to MPP+ occurred by SC mitochondrial preparation, which was inhibited by l-deprenyl implicating SC as a specific target of MPTP-neurotoxicity. Double immunofluorescent labeling and spectrofluorimetric assay via kynuramine oxidation showed MAO-B expression and activity in SC neurons. Localization of dopamine transporter immunoreactivity in SC along with specific uptake of (3)H-MPP+ by SC synaptosomal preparation further confirmed SC as target of MPTP-neurotoxicity. Compared with control, increased neuronal death on the seventh day in SC of mice injected with MPTP (2 x 25 mg/kg, at 6 h interval) strongly suggested SC degeneration in pre-symptomatic phase of MPTP-induced experimental parkinsonism. Such extra-nigral neurodegeneration in Parkinson's disease indicated novel molecular mechanism preceding nigrostriatal degeneration and suggested designing broad therapeutic intervention for this complex movement disorder.
The light-dependent subcellular translocation of rod alpha-transducin (GNAT-1, or rod Talpha) has been well documented. In dark-adapted animals, rod Talpha (rTalpha) is predominantly located in the rod outer segment (ROS) and translocates into the rod inner segment (RIS) upon exposure to the light. Neither the molecular participants nor the mechanism(s) involved in this protein trafficking are known. We hypothesized that other proteins must interact with rTalpha to affect the translocations. Using the MBP-rTalpha fusion pulldown assay, the yeast two-hybrid assay and the co-immunoprecipitation assay, we identified glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase (GAPDH) and rTalpha as interacting proteins. Immunoprecipitation also showed beta-actin associates with rTalpha in the dark but not in the light. To further investigate the involvement of GAPDH in light-induced rod Talpha translocation, GAPDH mRNA was knocked down in vivo by transient expression of siRNAs in rat photoreceptor cells. Under completely dark- and light-adapted conditions, the translocation of rTalpha was not significantly different within the 'GAPDH knock-down photoreceptor cells' compared to the non-transfected control cells. However, under partial dark-adaptation, rTalpha translocated more slowly in the 'GAPDH knock-down cells' supporting the conclusion that GAPDH is involved in rTalpha translocation from the RIS to the ROS during dark adaptation.
Most individuals with Down Syndrome (DS) show an early-onset of Alzheimer's disease (AD), which potentially results from the presence of an extra copy of a segment of chromosome 21. Located on chromosome 21 are the genes that encode beta-amyloid (Abeta) precursor protein (APP ), a key protein involved in the pathogenesis of AD, and dual-specificity tyrosine(Y)-phosphorylation regulated kinase 1A (DYRK1A ), a proline-directed protein kinase that plays a critical role in neurodevelopment. Here, we describe a potential mechanism for the regulation of AD pathology in DS brains by DYRK1A-mediated phosphorylation of APP. We show that APP is phosphorylated at Thr668 by DYRK1A in vitro and in mammalian cells. The amounts of phospho-APP and Abeta are increased in the brains of transgenic mice that over-express the human DYRK1A protein. Furthermore, we show that the amounts of phospho-APP as well as those of APP and DYRK1A are elevated in human DS brains. Taken together, these results reveal a potential regulatory link between APP and DYRK1A in DS brains, and suggest that the over-expression of DYRK1A in DS may play a role in accelerating AD pathogenesis through phosphorylation of APP.
The role of the proximal promoter GC-box in regulating basal and cAMP-dependent GTP Cyclohydrolase I gene transcription was investigated using a variety of cell lines and techniques. These studies show that the GC-box is composed of a triad of cis-elements that in vitro bind specificity proteins Sp1 and Sp3. Sp1 and Sp3 were found associated with the native proximal promoter in PC12 cells but were not recruited to the promoter during cAMP-dependent transcription. Studies using Drosophila SL2 cells showed that Sp3 occupies two sites within the GC-box and enhances transcription when acting alone and synergistically when combined with nuclear factor-Y (NF-Y) and CCAAT/Enhancer-Binding Protein (C/EBP)beta, cognate binding proteins for the adjacent cAMP response element (CRE) and CCAAT-box cAMP response elements. In contrast, Sp1 bound only one site within the GC-box and did not enhance transcription unless combined with NF-Y and C/EBPbeta. Studies in SL2 cells also showed that Sp1 and Sp3 do not co-occupy the GC-box, and accordingly Sp1 competes for Sp3 binding to repress Sp3-dependent transcription. In PC12 cells, complete mutation of the GC-box reduced basal but not cAMP-dependent transcription, resulting in an overall increase in the cAMP response and demonstrating that formation of this enhanceosome does not require Sp1 or Sp3. Experiments in which the GC-box was replaced with a Gal4 element and the promoter challenged with Gal4 fusion proteins support this conclusion and a role for Sp3 in maintaining high levels of basal transcription in PC12 cells. Equivalent amounts of Sp1 and Sp3 were found associated with the native proximal promoter in PC12 and Rat2 cells, which differ 10-fold in basal transcription. Similar levels of methylation of CpG dinucleotides located within the GC-box were also observed in these two cells lines. These results suggest that Sp1 and Sp3 bound to the GC-box might help to preserve an open chromatin configuration at the proximal promoter in cells which constitutively express low levels of GTP Cyclohydrolase I.
Coenzyme Q10 (CoQ10) is a promising agent for neuroprotection in neurodegenerative diseases. We tested the effects of various doses of two formulations of CoQ10 in food and found that administration in the diet resulted in significant protection against loss of dopamine (DA), which was accompanied by a marked increase in plasma concentrations of CoQ10. We further investigated the neuroprotective effects of CoQ10, reduced CoQ10 (ubiquinol), and CoQ10 emulsions in the (MPTP) model of Parkinson's disease (PD). We found neuroprotection against MPTP induced loss of DA using both CoQ10, and reduced CoQ10, which produced the largest increases in plasma concentrations. Lastly, we administered CoQ10 in the diet to test its effects in a chronic MPTP model induced by administration of MPTP by Alzet pump for 1 month. We found neuroprotective effects against DA depletion, loss of tyrosine hydroxylase neurons and induction of alpha-synuclein inclusions in the substantia nigra pars compacta. The finding that CoQ10 is effective in a chronic dosing model of MPTP toxicity, is of particular interest, as this may be more relevant to PD. These results provide further evidence that administration of CoQ10 is a promising therapeutic strategy for the treatment of PD.
The aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AhR) is a ligand-activated transcription factor activated by dioxin and polyaromatic hydrocarbons. Recent studies have revealed that AhR activity in central neurons depends on the NMDA receptor. In this study, we investigated how the neuronal activity influence AhR-mediated dioxin-responsive gene expression and neurotoxicity. Our results show that activation of AhR by the selective agonist 2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin induced dioxin-responsive gene expression and calcium entry, which were attenuated by AhR small interfering RNA, the NMDA receptor channel blocker MK801, and the action potential blocker tetrodotoxin (TTX). In addition, AhR-mediated gene expression was enhanced in neurons during synaptogenesis (10 days in vitro) compared with younger neurons (4 days in vitro), as was sensitivity to TTX and MK801. Furthermore, TTX and MK801 differentially affected the association of AhR and its transcriptional co-activator cAMP-responsive-element binding protein with the cytochrome P450 1A1 (cyp1A1) gene enhancer. Calcium/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase IV, the cAMP-responsive-element binding protein activating enzyme, was also activated by 2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin in an activity-dependent manner. Finally, we found that neuronal susceptibility to dioxin insult was also maturation and activity-dependent. Together, the results suggest that neuronal activity may facilitate AhR-mediated calcium signaling, which in turn enhances AhR-mediated gene regulation and mediated maturation-dependent dioxin neurotoxicity.
The neuroprotective effects of oestrogens have been demonstrated against a variety of insults, including excitotoxicity, oxidative stress and cerebral ischemia under certain conditions. However, the molecular mechanisms underlying oestrogen neuroprotection are still unclear. We aimed to determine whether 17beta-oestradiol (E(2)) administration post-hypoxia (p-hx) was neuroprotective and whether these actions were mediated through oestrogen receptors (ER). For this purpose, 12-embyonic day-old chickens were subjected to acute hypoxia [8% (O(2)), 60 min], followed by different reoxygenation periods. To test the neuroprotective effect of E(2) and its mechanism, embryos were injected 30 min after the end of hypoxia with E(2) alone or with ICI 182 780, a competitive antagonist of ER. Cytochrome c (cyt c) release, an indicator of mitochondrial apoptotic pathway, was measured by western blot in optic lobe cytosolic extracts. DNA fragmentation by TUNEL fluorescence and caspase-3 fragmentation by immunofluorescence were detected on optic lobe sections. Acute hypoxia produces a significant increase in cyt c release from mitochondria at 4 h p-hx, followed by an increase in TUNEL positive cells 2 h later (6 h p-hx). Administration of E(2) (0.5 mg/egg) produced a significant decrease in cytosolic cyt c levels at 4 h p-hx, in caspase-3 activation and in TUNEL positive cells at 6 h p-hx compared to vehicle treated embryos. In the E(2)-ICI 182 780 treated embryos, cyt c release, caspase-3 fragmentation and TUNEL positive cells were similar to the hypoxic embryos, thus suggesting the requirement of an E(2)-ER interaction for E(2) mediated neuroprotective effects. In conclusion, E(2) prevents hypoxia-induced cyt c release and posterior cell death and these effects are mediated by oestrogen receptors.
Testosterone secreted by male testes during fetal development is aromatized to oestradiol (E(2)) or reduced to the androgen, dihydrotestosteorne (DHT), within specific tissues. The female brain is assumed to develop in the relative absence of gonadal steroid hormones, as the ovary is steroidogenically quiescent until later in postnatal life. However, the proximity of a female fetus to male littermates in utero can increase her exposure to testosterone, and thereby its metabolites. To date, it is has been difficult to dissociate the effects of male-derived E(2) from those of DHT on the developing female brain. In the present study, anogential distance (AGD) in females was used as an androgen-dependent bioassay, whereas progesterone receptor (PR) expression within the medial preoptic nucleus (MPN) was used as an E-dependent measure. Pregnant dams received the aromatase inhibitor, 1,4,6-androstatriene-3,17-dione (ATD), or vehicle from embryonic day 16 (ED16) to ED21. On ED22, AGD and PR-immunoreactivity (-ir) were measured in females that had zero, one, or two males (0-2M) or females that had three, four, or five males (3-5M) in the uterine horn. AGD was significantly greater in 3-5M females compared to 0-2M females, suggesting that male littermates are the source of androgenic exposure in the female fetus. ATD treatment significantly decreased PR-ir in the MPN, demonstrating E(2) regulation of PR. However, the total number of males in the uterine horn did not effect PR expression. There was no correlation between PR-ir and AGD, suggesting that these measures are influenced independently. Together, these results suggest that although male littermates provide a significant source of androgens to female fetuses, the amount of E(2) aromatized from male-derived testosterone may not be the only biologically relevant source of androgens or E(2). Alternative sources of E(2) may be essential in ensuring the normal development of the female brain.
Selective oestrogen receptor modulators (SERMs) may offer improved alternatives to oestrogen as neuroprotectants in experimental stroke. The present study investigated the role of a novel SERM, LY362321, in a rat model of transient middle cerebral artery occlusion (MCAO). Female Sprague-Dawley rats were ovariectomised and began receiving daily s.c. injections of either 1 mg/kg (n = 13), 10 mg/kg (n = 14) of LY362321, or vehicle (n = 13). The left MCA was temporarily occluded (90 min), with cortical blood flow monitoring, at 12 days post ovariectomy. Sensorimotor function was assessed using a neurological score prior to the MCAO and daily for 3 days following the MCAO. Tissue was processed for infarct volume assessment using 2,3,5-triphenyltetra-zolium chloride staining. The results indicated that there were no significant differences amongst groups in cortical blood flow during the MCAO. Furthermore, there was no significant difference in infarct size amongst vehicle, 1, and 10 mg/kg treated animals: 22.9 +/- 5.0, 16.7 +/- 4.2, and 21.1 +/- 4.1, respectively, one-way anova [F(2,32) = 0.542, P = 0.587]. The MCAO induced a significant decline in neurological score in the vehicle group (from 14 to 7 at 24 h post-MCAO) but this was not significantly affected by LY362321 at either dose. In conclusion, pretreatment with a low or high dose of the novel SERM LY362321 did not significantly influence cerebral blood flow, infarct volume, or sensorimotor function in rats exposed to transient MCAO.
Pieces of evidence are emerging in support of the startling idea that the birth of new neurones in the adult brain in some way underlies major depression. Although there are intriguing parallels between factors that regulate neurogenesis and those predicting depression or its recovery, at this point, we should remain sceptical but allow cautious hope that more effective therapies may be suggested.
This review describes the aetiology and pathogenesis of polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS) and evaluates the use of acupuncture to prevent and reduce symptoms related with PCOS. PCOS is the most common female endocrine disorder and it is strongly associated with hyperandrogenism, ovulatory dysfunction and obesity. PCOS increases the risk for metabolic disturbances such as hyperinsulinaemia and insulin resistance, which can lead to type 2 diabetes, hypertension and an increased likelihood of developing cardiovascular risk factors and impaired mental health later in life. Despite extensive research, little is known about the aetiology of PCOS. The syndrome is associated with peripheral and central factors that influence sympathetic nerve activity. Thus, the sympathetic nervous system may be an important factor in the development and maintenance of PCOS. Many women with PCOS require prolonged treatment. Current pharmacological approaches are effective but have adverse effects. Therefore, nonpharmacological treatment strategies need to be evaluated. Clearly, acupuncture can affect PCOS via modulation of endogenous regulatory systems, including the sympathetic nervous system, the endocrine and the neuroendocrine system. Experimental observations in rat models of steroid-induced polycystic ovaries and clinical data from studies in women with PCOS suggest that acupuncture exert long-lasting beneficial effects on metabolic and endocrine systems and ovulation.
Substances of abuse, such as opiates, and astroglial-derived proinflammatory cytokines, such as interleukin (IL)-1beta, likely contribute to the neuroinflammatory and neurodegenerative processes observed in NeuroAIDS in injection drug users. Furthermore, uncontrolled synthesis and activation of complement component C3 in the brain can also lead to inflammation and neurodegeneration. We hypothesized that morphine may alter regulation of the C3 gene by IL-1beta in astrocytes. Our studies demonstrate that IL-1beta induces C3 promoter activity in a CAAT/enhancer-binding protein (C/EBP)-dependent manner. Inhibition of IL-1beta mediated C3 promoter activation by the dominant negative mutant of p38-alpha mitogen-activated protein kinase suggests that IL-1beta induces C3 expression through the activation of C/EBP. Morphine (0.01 microM) in combination with IL-1beta further induced C3 promoter activity. Similarly, the C/EBP-beta isoform liver activating protein and C/EBP-delta-induced C3 promoter activity were upregulated by morphine and IL-1beta. Taken together, this study illustrates that morphine modulates IL-1beta-mediated C3 expression in astrocytic cells.
Humoral immune mechanisms may have a role in the neurological complications of celiac disease (CD). We assessed 71 CD patients for neurologic manifestations and presence of serum antibodies to neural antigens. Sixteen patients (22.5%) were found to have neurological deficits including headache, depression, entrapment syndromes, peripheral neuropathy, and epilepsy. Antibody reactivity to neural antigens was detected in 30/71 (42.2%) patients. There was no clear correlation between anti-neural reactivity and neurologic dysfunction. Follow-up of 62 patients did not reveal change in electrophysiology or antibodies, regardless of diet. However, in 2 patients with neuropathy, symptoms improved or worsened depending on the diet.
Signal transduction pathways may be important targets of chemokines during neuroinflammation. In the current study, Western blot analyses show that in rat hippocampal neuronal/glial cell cultures chronic CXCL10 increases the level of protein for ERK1/2 as well as for the transcriptional factors CREB and NF-kappaB. Bcl-2, an anti-apoptotic protein whose expression can be regulated by a pathway involving ERK1/2, CREB and NF-kappaB, was also increased in the CXCL10 treated cultures. These results implicate a role for ERK1/2, CREB and NF-kappaB in effects of CXCL10 on hippocampal cells and suggest that chronic CXCL10 may have a protective role during certain neuroinflammatory conditions.
Estrogen has been shown to attenuate the inflammatory response following injury or lipopolysaccharide treatment in several organ systems. Estrogen's actions are transduced through two estrogen receptor sub-types, estrogen receptor (ER) -alpha and estrogen receptor-beta, whose actions may be overlapping or independent of each other. The present study examined the effects of ERalpha- and ERbeta-specific ligands in regulating the inflammatory response in primary astrocyte cultures. Pre-treatment with 17beta-estradiol (ERalpha/ERbeta agonist), HPTE (ERalpha agonist/ERbeta antagonist) and DPN (ERbeta agonist) led to attenuation of IL-1beta, TNFalpha, and MMP-9 in astrocyte media derived from young adult (3-4 mos.) and reproductive senescent female (9-11 mos., acyclic) astrocyte cultures, while pretreatment with PPT (ERalpha agonist) attenuated IL-1beta (but not MMP-9) in both young and senescent-derived astrocyte cultures. Our previous work determined that 17beta-estradiol was unable to attenuate the LPS-induced increase in IL-1beta in olfactory bulb primary microglial cultures derived from either young adult or reproductive senescent females. In young adult-derived microglial cultures, the LPS-induced increase in IL-1beta was not attenuated by pre-treatment with 17beta-estradiol, PPT or HPTE. Interestingly, the ERbeta agonist, DPN significantly decreased IL-1beta following LPS treatment in young adult-derived microglia. Thus while both microglia and astrocytes synthesize and release inflammatory mediators, the present data shows that compounds which bind ERbeta are more effective in attenuating proinflammatory cytokines in both cell types and may therefore be a more effective agent for future therapeutic use.

Pregnancy-related stroke is, fortunately, a rare event. However, when it occurs, there may be implications for management of the patient and delivery of the child. This article reviews the mechanisms and risk factors for stroke related to pregnancy, the presenting features, diagnosis and management of the different stroke types, and the implications for pregnancy and delivery.

Alien hand syndrome (AHS) is rare, but important due to its disabling impact on everyday life. The determining characteristic of AHS is intermanual conflict, a type of inhibitory motor behaviour that occurs against willed action. Its components have previously been described as single case reports, but not as a systematic study. This review includes eight chronic cases, all of which are due to infarcts of the anterior cerebral artery. Clinical investigation included testing of motor behaviour related to everyday activities, such as tying shoelaces, lighting a candle and other bimanual tasks. Video-analysis showed that conflicting behaviour occurs in two distinct forms. One consists of interfering, rudimentary, hesitant and repetitive movements of the (alien) hand, often initiated by movements of the other hand. In some instances, disturbance of ongoing action is seen as spacious, ballistic-like extensions of the whole arm. This was most prevalent in three of the eight cases. In one patient, it was also seen as conflict with both feet (eg, when putting on slippers) or as a conflict of intentions (eg, when planning to enter a room). The other form consisted of massive groping and grasping behaviour as the most dominant features, such as a &quot;tug of war between hands&quot;, and was seen in five patients. Avoidance behaviour included sitting on the affected arm, holding it under the table or keeping objects out of reach. Enforcement of such strategies was used for rehabilitation and--although beneficial in the training sessions--carried over very little to everyday life. All cases had two distinct brain lesions, one in the genu or anterior rostrum of the corpus callosum and one in the contralateral frontomedial cortical and subcortical region. Chronic AHS is the only clinical syndrome that shows complex inhibitory motor behaviour in a more or less pure form because it has become detached from the control of motor planning and execution. It can best be understood as sequences of complex inhibitory motor programmes that have become isolated from normal motor planning, which usually suppresses them via the contralateral cortico-subcortical prefrontal circuits and the corpus callosum. Thus, the mirror world of complex motor inhibition becomes clinically visible in such patients.
We hypothesized that induction of differentiation with retinoid could increase sensitivity to microtubule-binding drug taxol (TXL) for apoptosis in human glioblastoma T98G and U87MG cells. Treatment of cells with 1 microM all-trans retinoic acid (ATRA) or 1 microM 13-cis retinoic acid (13-CRA) for 7 days induced astrocytic differentiation, overexpression of glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP), and also down regulated telomerase expression and activity, thereby increased sensitivity to TXL for apoptosis. Treatment of glioblastoma cells with TXL triggered production of reactive oxygen species (ROS), induced phosphorylation of p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK), and activated the redox-sensitive c-Jun NH(2)-terminal kinase 1 (JNK1) pathway. Moreover, TXL activated Raf-1 kinase for phosphorylation and inactivation of anti-apoptotic Bcl-2 protein. The events of apoptosis included increase in expression of Bax, down regulation of Bcl-2 and baculoviral inhibitor-of-apoptosis protein (IAP) repeat containing (BIRC) proteins, mitochondrial release of cytochrome c and Smac into the cytosol, increase in intracellular free [Ca(2+)], and activation of calpain, caspase-9, and caspase-3. Increased activity of caspase-3 cleaved inhibitor of caspase-activated DNase (ICAD) to release and translocate CAD to the nucleus for DNA fragmentation. Involvement of stress signaling kinases and proteolytic activities of calpain and caspase-3 in apoptosis was confirmed by pretreating cells with specific inhibitors. Taken together, our results suggested that retinoid (ATRA or 13-CRA) induced astrocytic differentiation with down regulation of telomerase activity to increase sensitivity to TXL to enhance apoptosis in glioblastoma cells. Thus, combination of retinoid and TXL could be an effective therapeutic strategy for controlling the growth of glioblastoma.
Misdirection of axons after nerve injury impairs successful regeneration of adult neurons. Investigations of axon guidance in development have provided an understanding of pathfinding, but their relevance to regenerating adult axons is unclear. We investigated adult mammalian axon guidance during regeneration after peripheral nerve injury and focused on the effects of the prototypic guidance molecule nerve growth factor (NGF). Adult rat sensory neurons from dorsal root ganglia that expressed the NGF receptor tropomyosin-related kinase A (trkA) were presented with a point source of NGF in vitro. Naive trkA neurons had no net turning response to NGF, but if they had been preconditioned by a peripheral nerve transection in vivo before culturing, their growth cones were attracted toward the NGF gradient. A laminin substrate was required for this behavior and an anti-trkA antibody interrupted turning. These data demonstrate that injured adult mammalian axons can be guided as they regenerate. Moreover, despite the downregulation of trkA mRNA and protein levels within the dorsal root ganglion after injury, sensory neurons retain and increase trkA protein at the injury site where the regenerating axons are found. This may enhance the axonal response to NGF and allow guidance along an NGF gradient created in vivo in the distal nerve stump.
Adult neuronal phenotype is maintained, at least in part, by the sensitivity of individual neurons to a specific selection of neurotrophic factors and the availability of such factors in the neurons' environment. Nerve growth factor (NGF) increases the functional expression of Na(+) channel currents (I(Na)) and both N- and L-type Ca(2+) currents (I(Ca,N) and I(Ca,L)) in adult bullfrog sympathetic ganglion (BFSG) B-neurons. The effects of NGF on I(Ca) involve the mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) pathway. Prolonged exposure to the ganglionic neurotransmitter luteinizing hormone releasing hormone (LHRH) also increases I(Ca,N) but the transduction mechanism remains to be elucidated as does the transduction mechanism for NGF regulation of Na(+) channels. We therefore exposed cultured BFSG B-neurons to chicken II LHRH (0.45 microM; 6-9 days) or to NGF (200 ng/ml; 9-10 days) and used whole cell recording, immunoblot analysis, and ras or rap-1 pulldown assays to study effects of various inhibitors and activators of transduction pathways. We found that 1) LHRH signals via ras-MAPK to increase I(Ca,N), 2) this effect is mediated via protein kinase C-beta (PKC-beta-IotaIota), 3) protein kinase A (PKA) is necessary but not sufficient to effect transduction, 4) NGF signals via phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (PI3K) to increase I(Na), and 5) long-term exposure to LHRH fails to affect I(Na). Thus downstream signaling from LHRH has access to the ras-MAPK pathway but not to the PI3K pathway. This allows for differential retrograde and anterograde neurotrophic regulation of sodium and calcium channels in an adult sympathetic neuron.
Reactive oxygen species (ROS) are required for the induction of long-term potentiation (LTP) and behave as signaling molecules via redox modifications of target proteins. In particular, superoxide is necessary for induction of LTP, and application of superoxide to hippocampal slices is sufficient to induce LTP in area CA1. Although a rise in postsynaptic intracellular calcium is necessary for LTP induction, superoxide-induced potentiation does not require calcium flux through N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA) receptors. Ryanodine receptors (RyRs) mediate calcium-induced calcium release from intracellular stores and have been shown to modulate LTP. In this study, we investigated the highly redox-sensitive RyRs and L-type calcium channels as calcium sources that might mediate superoxide-induced potentiation. In agreement with previous studies of skeletal and cardiac muscle, we found that superoxide enhances activation of RyRs in the mouse hippocampus. We identified a functional coupling between L-type voltage-gated calcium channels and RyRs and identified RyR3, a subtype enriched in area CA1, as the specific isoform required for superoxide-induced potentiation. Superoxide also enhanced the phosphorylation of extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK) in area CA1, and ERK was necessary for superoxide-induced potentiation. Thus superoxide-induced potentiation requires the redox targeting of RyR3 and the subsequent activation of ERK.
Prepulse inhibition (PPI) is typically associated with an attenuation of auditory startle behavior in mammals and is presumably mediated within the brainstem startle circuit. However, the inhibitory mechanisms underlying PPI are not yet clear. We addressed this question with complementary behavioral and in vivo electrophysiological experiments in the startle escape circuit of goldfish, the Mauthner cell (M-cell) system. In the behavioral experiments we observed a 77.5% attenuation (PPI) of startle escape probability following auditory prepulse-pulse stimulation. The PPI effect was observed for prepulse-pulse interstimulus intervals (ISIs) ranging from 20 to 600 ms and its magnitude depended linearly on prepulse intensity over a range of 14 dB. Electrophysiological recordings of synaptic responses to a sound pulse in the M-cell, which is the sensorimotor neuron initiating startle escapes, showed a 21% reduction in amplitude of the dendritic postsynaptic potential (PSP) and a 23% reduction of the somatic PSP following a prepulse. In addition, a prepulse evoked a long-lasting (500 ms) decrease in M-cell excitability indicated by 1) an increased threshold current, 2) an inhibitory shunt of the action potential (AP), and 3) by a linearized M-cell membrane, which effectively impedes M-cell AP generation. Comparing the magnitude and kinetics of inhibitory shunts evoked by a prepulse in the M-cell dendrite and soma revealed a disproportionately larger and longer-lasting inhibition in the dendrite. These results suggest that the observed PPI-type attenuation of startle behavior can be correlated to distinct postsynaptic mechanisms mediated primarily at the M-cell lateral dendrite.
Previously we reported that prenatal exposure to morphine twice daily during gestation decreases proenkephalin levels in adult progeny within the brain, including the dentate gyrus, and alters mu and delta opioid receptors in the hippocampal CA3 region. The lateral aspect of the perforant path contains and releases enkephalin-derived opioid peptides, and induction of long-term potentiation (LTP) in lateral perforant path projections to both the dentate gyrus and the hippocampal CA3 region is blocked by antagonists of opioid receptors. Thus LTP induction at these synapses involves opioid receptor activation mediated by the release of proenkephalin-derived opioid peptides with lateral perforant path activation. Here we show in adult behaving animals, neither LTP induction nor the early phase of LTP (E-LTP) maintenance is altered by prenatal morphine exposure in the lateral perforant path projections to the dentate gyrus and the CA3 region. However, maintenance and longevity of late LTP (L-LTP), as reflected in the magnitude of LTP over days, was attenuated in animals prenatally exposed to morphine. In contrast, in medial perforant path projections to the dentate gyrus and CA3 region, both LTP induction and the maintenance of E- and L-LTP were unaffected by prenatal morphine treatment. Thus a brief prenatal exposure to the opiate morphine produces sustained, and possibly permanent, alterations in L-LTP in the opioidergic lateral perforant path projection. This suggests that prenatal morphine exposure disrupts LTP via disruption of opioid mechanisms involved in LTP maintenance or via disruption of opioid receptor activation during LTP induction, which can subsequently alter LTP maintenance.
Breathing frequency increases at the onset of movement in a wide rage of mammals including adult humans. Moreover, the magnitude of increase in the rate of breathing appears related to the rate of the rhythmic movement. We determined whether human infants show the same type of response when supported to step on a treadmill. Twenty infants (ages 9.7 +/- 1.2 mo) participated in trials consisting of sitting, stepping on the treadmill, followed by sitting again. Breathing frequency was recorded with a thermocouple, positioned under one naris and taped to a soother that the infant held in his/her mouth. A video camera, electrogoniometers, and force platforms under the treadmill belts recorded stepping movements. We found that the rate of breathing changed at the beginning of stepping. Most surprisingly, we found that when infants stepped at a frequency slower than their breathing frequency in sitting, the breathing frequency decreased. Average breathing frequency during stepping was positively correlated with stepping frequency. There was no evidence of entrainment between stepping and breathing. In conclusion, the rapid change in breathing frequency at the beginning of movement is functional in infants. The direction and magnitude of change in breathing is associated with the leg movements.
To better understand the role of intrinsic spinal cord circuits in the integration of mechanosensory information, we studied synaptic transmission between neurons in Rexed's laminae III-IV, a major termination zone for cutaneous mechanoreceptor afferents, using dual, simultaneous whole cell electrophysiological recordings in young hamsters. Synaptic connections were detected between 32 of 106 cell pairs (linkage probability of 0.3) and were predominantly unidirectional (91%). Inhibitory connections outnumbered excitatory connections by 2:1. Amplitude of single-axon postsynaptic potentials (PSPs) was independent of postsynaptic cell input resistance. Intracellular labeling suggested that recordings were obtained from local axon interneurons. In connected cell pairs, the percentage of presynaptic action potentials that failed to evoke a postsynaptic response was 44 +/- 29%. Shape indices of PSPs suggested that synaptic contacts were widely distributed along the postsynaptic membrane. Linkage probability was unrelated to intrinsic firing properties, laminar position of the cells or the distance (&lt;160 mum) separating them. However, PSPs in target cells following action potentials in neurons with phasic firing patterns had longer duration and lower failure rates than PSPs activated by neurons with tonic firing patterns. Thus transmission reliability at synapses between lamina III/IV interneurons overall is low, and efficacy of these connections is related to firing properties of the presynaptic cells. The observations also suggest that synaptic organization in LIII-IV is fundamentally different from the superficial dorsal horn (LI-II) where neural circuits may be composed of stereotyped units made from connections between a few functional types of neurons.
After walking onto a moving platform subjects experience a locomotor aftereffect (LAE), including a self-generated stumble, when walking again onto a stationary platform. Thus this LAE affords examination of the role of vestibular input during an internally generated postural challenge. The experiments involved walking onto the stationary sled (BEFORE trials), walking onto the moving sled (MOVING), and a second set of stationary trials (AFTER). We investigated 9 bilateral labyrinthine defective subjects (LDS) and 13 age-matched normal controls (NC) with eyes open. We repeated the experiment in 5 NC and 5 LDS but this time the AFTER trials were performed twice, first eyes closed and then on eye reopening. During MOVING trials, LDS were considerably unstable, thus confirming the established role of the vestibular system during externally imposed postural perturbations. During AFTER trials, both groups experienced an aftereffect with eyes open and closed, shown as higher approach gait velocity, a forward trunk overshoot, and increased leg EMG. However, there were no significant group differences due to the fact that stopping the forward trunk overshoot was accomplished by anticipatory EMG bursts. On eye reopening the aftereffect re-emerged, significantly larger in LDS than that in NC. The lack of group differences in AFTER trials suggests that when facing internally generated postural perturbations, as in this adaptation process, the CNS relies less on vestibular feedback and more on anticipatory mechanisms. Reemergence of the aftereffect on eye reopening indicates the existence of a feedforward visuo-contextual mechanism for locomotor learning, which is adaptively enhanced in the absence of vestibular function.
Corticotropin-releasing factor (CRF) is not only a stress hormone but also acts as a neuromodulator outside the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenocortical axis, playing an important role in anxiety, depression, and pain modulation. The underlying mechanisms remain to be determined. A major site of extra-hypothalamic expression of CRF and its receptors is the amygdala, a key player in affect-related disorders such as anxiety. The latero-capsular division of the central nucleus of the amygdala (CeLC) is also important for pain modulation and pain affect. This study analyzed the effects of CRF on nociceptive processing in CeLC neurons and the contribution of CRF1 and CRF2 receptors and protein kinases A and C. Extracellular single-unit recordings were made from CeLC neurons in anesthetized adult rats. All neurons responded more strongly to noxious than innocuous mechanical stimulation of the knee. Evoked responses and background activity were measured before and during administration of CRF into the CeLC by microdialysis. CRF was administered alone or together with receptor antagonists or protein kinase inhibitors. CRF (0.01-1 microM; concentrations in microdialysis probe; 15 min) facilitated the evoked responses more strongly than background activity; a higher concentration (10 microM) had inhibitory effects. Facilitation by CRF (0.1 microM) was reversed by a selective CRF1 receptor antagonist (NBI27914, 10 microM) but not a CRF2 receptor antagonist (astressin-2B, 100 microM) and by a protein kinase A (PKA) inhibitor (KT5720, 100 microM) but not a protein kinase C inhibitor (GF109203X, 100 microM). Inhibitory effects of CRF (10 microM) were reversed by astressin-2B. These data suggest that CRF has dual effects on amygdala neurons: CRF1 receptor-mediated PKA-dependent facilitation and CRF2 receptor-mediated inhibition.
We report the first optical recordings of action potentials, in single trials, from one or a few (approximately 1-2 microm) mammalian nerve terminals in an intact in vitro preparation, the mouse neurohypophysis. The measurements used two-photon excitation along the &quot;blue&quot; edge of the two-photon absorption spectrum of di-3-ANEPPDHQ (a fluorescent voltage-sensitive naphthyl styryl-pyridinium dye), and epifluorescence detection, a configuration that is critical for noninvasive recording of electrical activity from intact brains. Single-trial recordings of action potentials exhibited signal-to-noise ratios of approximately 5:1 and fractional fluorescence changes of up to approximately 10%. This method, by virtue of its optical sectioning capability, deep tissue penetration, and efficient epifluorescence detection, offers clear advantages over linear, as well as other nonlinear optical techniques used to monitor voltage changes in localized neuronal regions, and provides an alternative to invasive electrode arrays for studying neuronal systems in vivo.
Face detection, the process of finding a face in a visual scene, is a critical step in face processing, yet it has received relatively little attention compared with other face processes. The present study addresses this crucial first stage by investigating the effect of inversion on face detection and by examining how individuals with developmental prosopagnosia perform on face detection tasks. Fourteen control participants and fourteen individuals with developmental prosopagnosia (DPs) were tested with two face detection tasks: (I) Face versus Non-Face, where arrays of small images were presented, one of which could contain a face and (2) Face versus Face Parts, where a two-tone face could be embedded in a larger array of similar two-tone face parts. On each trial, participants made a speeded response if a face was present in the visual display. On almost all measures both normal and prosopagnosic individuals showed strong inversion effects with significantly worse performance with inverted faces. This shows that the simple task of detection can show inversion effects comparable to those seen for other face tasks, including recognition. Finally, while there were prosopagnosics who were well within the normal range for detection, there were significant group differences, particularly for the case of the Face versus Face Parts, where prosopagnosics were worse than controls on upright but not on inverted face detection.
The perception of a face allows us to recognize the person, infer his or her emotional state, better understand what the person is saying, and derive general information, such as age and gender. This unique visual stimulus has generated a wealth of research, and subsequently theoretical and methodological debate. This special issue brings together 16 original papers that show the extraordinary diversity and fruitfulness of the approaches now being pursued. They are aimed at understanding different aspects of face perception in populations ranging from healthy children to adults with brain lesions and with techniques covering the entire spectrum from paper-and-pencil tests to functional brain imaging. Together, these contributions provide an insightful overview of the current state of research on face perception and exemplify the questions that dominate the field. To one such question, whether 'face perception' is a special issue in the broad field of the cognitive neurosciences, the answer is clearly yes!
We have investigated the differential mediators of the neurotrophic effects of intravitreal peripheral nerve grafting and lens injury on adult rat retinal ganglion cells (RGC). Lens injury and intravitreal peripheral nerve grafting both stimulated RGC neurite growth in vitro and axon regeneration past the optic nerve lesion site in vivo concomitant with activation of retinal glia and invasion of macrophages into the eye. These observations, together with the results of coculture studies using a macrophage-free intact peripheral nerve segment, a macrophage-free intact lens, a macrophage-rich peripheral nerve segment, or a macrophage-rich injured lens in retinal cultures suggest that the stimulation of RGC axon regeneration by lens injury and intravitreal peripheral nerve grafting share a common macrophage-derived component overlain by distinct lens-derived and peripheral nerve-derived neurotrophic factors, respectively. RGC axon regeneration following lens injury and intravitreal peripheral nerve grafting was similar in vivo, correlating with similar retinal glia activation whereas, in vitro, the level of RGC neurite outgrowth was significantly higher following intravitreal peripheral nerve grafting compared with lens injury, concomitant with the presence of increased numbers of activated retinal glia. This suggests that in vivo RGC axon regeneration induced by lens injury and peripheral nerve grafting may be limited, in part, by factors derived from activated retinal glia.
The neural cell adhesion molecule (NCAM) plays a crucial role in neuronal development, synaptic plasticity, and regeneration. NCAM works as &quot;smart glue&quot; that not only mediates cell-cell adhesion but also induces activation of a complex network of intracellular signaling cascades on homophilic or heterophilic binding. Stimulation of NCAM by homophilic interactions induces neuronal differentiation through activation of a number of signaling molecules, including the fibroblast growth factor receptor, non-receptor kinases Fyn and focal adhesion kinase, growth-associated protein-43, the mitogen-activated protein kinase pathway, intracellular Ca(2+), and protein kinases A, C, and G. This review presents and discusses the current knowledge in the area of NCAM signaling with a focus on the events involved in NCAM-mediated neurite outgrowth.
The brain neurotransmitters' receptor activity and hormonal pathways control many physiological functions in the body. Acetylcholine (ACh), a major neurotransmitter from autonomic nervous system, regulates the cholinergic stimulation of insulin secretion, through interactions with muscarinic receptors. The objective of the present study was to investigate the changes in the total muscarinic and muscarinic M1 receptor ([(3)H]quinuclidinyl benzilate; QNB) binding and gene expression in the hypothalamus, brainstem, and pancreatic islets of streptozotocin (STZ)-induced diabetic and insulin-treated diabetic rats. In the hypothalamus and brainstem, total muscarinic receptor numbers were increased in diabetic rats with increase in affinity. Hypothalamic and brainstem muscarinic M1 receptors number were decreased in STZ diabetic rats with increase in affinity. In the pancreatic islets, muscarinic M1 receptors of diabetic rats were decreased, with a decrease in affinity. In all cases, the binding parameters were reversed to near control by the treatment of diabetic rats with insulin. Real-time PCR data also showed a decrease in muscarinic M1 receptor gene expression and a similar reversal with insulin treatment. Thus our results suggest that insulin modulates binding parameters and gene expression of total and muscarinic M1 receptors.
By using antibodies against mouse F3/contactin, we found immunologically related glycoproteins expressed in the nervous tissue of the snail Helix pomatia. Helix contactin-related proteins (HCRPs) include different molecules ranging in size from 90 to 240 kD. Clones isolated from a cDNA expression library allowed us to demonstrate that these proteins are translated from a unique 6.3-kb mRNA, suggesting that their heterogeneity depends on posttranslational processing. This is supported by the results of endoglycosidase F treatment, which indicate that the high-molecular-weight components are glycosylation variants of the 90-kD chain. In vivo and in cultures, HCRPs antibodies label neuronal soma and neurite extensions, giving the appearance of both cytoplasmic and cell surface immunostaining. On the other hand, no expression is found on nonneural tissues. Functionally, HCRPs are involved in neurite growth control and appear to modulate neurotransmitter release, as indicated by the inhibiting effects of specific antibodies on both functions. These data allow the definition of HCRPs glycoproteins as growth-promoting molecules, suggesting that they play a role in neurite development and presynaptic terminal maturation in the invertebrate nervous system.
In this report, the authors describe a unique case of intermittent high cervical cord compression caused by a prolapsing neurofibroma at the C1-2 level. This 21-year-old man with known neurofibromatosis Type 1 presented with a mass between the anterior arch of the atlas and the odontoid peg, causing atlantoaxial dissociation and cord compression. The cervicomedullary compression appeared to be caused in part by the neurofibroma but also by the abnormal alignment and thickening of the ligaments between the clivus and C-2. Preoperative imaging repeated on the morning of surgery revealed that the atlantoaxial dissociation had reduced with relief of cord compression and the lesion prolapsed inferiorly. The authors discuss this unusual lesion and describe the associated operative findings and surgical management.

Basing practice decisions on sound scientific research and best available evidence is an optimal approach for making practice changes. A five-member team of nursing leaders formed an evidence-based practice (EBP) steering committee and developed an EBP model and process. This article describes the educational approaches and the development of mentors used to provide the staff nurse with the necessary knowledge and skills to use EBP successfully.


Much of the current research-work into biological basis of mental disorders is predicted on implicit concept of disease that is less critical and sophisticated as it should be. It is remarkable, how the fundamental conceptual frame work of schizophrenia, as proposed by Professor Emil Kraepelin has stayed the same, since its inception almost 100-years ago. This review explores these issues besides highlighting alternative disease classification that suits behavioural neuroscience research.

Neurotoxic side effects of cancer therapy are second in frequency to hematological toxicity. Unlike hematological side effects that can be treated with hematopoietic growth factors, neuropathies cannot be treated and protective treatment strategies have not been effective. For the neurologist, the diagnosis of a toxic neuropathy is primarily based on the case history, the clinical and electrophysiological findings, and knowledge of the pattern of neuropathy associated with specific agents. In most cases, toxic neuropathies are length-dependent, sensory, or sensorimotor neuropathies often associated with pain. The platinum compounds are unique in producing a sensory ganglionopathy. Neurotoxicity is usually dependent on cumulative dose. Severity of neuropathy increases with duration of treatment and progression stops once drug treatment is completed. The platinum compounds are an exception where sensory loss may progress for several months after cessation of treatment (&quot;coasting&quot;). As more effective multiple drug combinations are used, patients will be treated with several neurotoxic drugs. Synergistic neurotoxicity has not been extensively investigated. Pre-existent neuropathy may influence the development of a toxic neuropathy. Underlying inherited or inflammatory neuropathies may predispose patients to developing very severe toxic neuropathies. Other factors such as focal radiotherapy or intrathecal administration may enhance neurotoxicity. The neurologist managing the cancer patient who develops neuropathy must answer a series of important questions as follows: (1) Are the symptoms due to peripheral neuropathy? (2) Is the neuropathy due to the underlying disease or the treatment? (3) Should treatment be modified or stopped because of the neuropathy? (4) What is the best supportive care in terms of pain management or physical therapy for each patient? Prevention of toxic neuropathies is most important. In patients with neuropathy, restorative approaches have not been well established. Symptomatic and other management are necessary to maintain and improve quality of life.
A dual radioligand binding and electrophysiological study, focusing on a range of ligand-gated ion channels, was performed with a chemically-validated essential oil derived from Melissa officinalis (MO), which has shown clinical benefit in treating agitation. MO inhibited binding of [35S] t-butylbicyclophosphorothionate (TBPS) to the rat forebrain gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA)(A) receptor channel (apparent IC50 0.040+/-0.001 mg mL(-1)), but had no effect on N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA), alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropianate (AMPA) or nicotinic acetylcholine receptors. Electrophysiological analyses with primary cultures of rat cortical neurons demonstrated that MO reversibly inhibited GABA-induced currents in a concentration-dependent manner (0.01-1 mg mL(-1)), whereas no inhibition of NMDA- or AMPA-induced currents was noted. Interestingly, MO elicited a significant dose-dependent reduction in both inhibitory and excitatory transmission, with a net depressant effect on neurotransmission (in contrast to the classical GABA(A) antagonist picrotoxinin which evoked profound epileptiform burst firing in these cells). The anti-agitation effects in patients and the depressant effects of MO in in-vitro we report in neural membranes are unlikely to reflect a sedative interaction with any of the ionotropic receptors examined here.
The mechanism of estrogen-mediated neuroprotection is not yet clear. Estrogens have a variety of modes of action, including transducing signaling events such as activation and/or suppression of the mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) pathway. We have previously shown protein phosphatases to be involved in 17beta-estradiol-mediated neuroprotection. In the present study, we assessed the role of estrogen receptors (ERs) in estrogen-mediated neuroprotection from oxidative/excitotoxic stress and the consequential effects on MAPK signaling. Okadaic acid and calyculin A, nonspecific serine/threonine phosphatase inhibitors, were exposed to cells at various concentrations in the presence or absence of 17alpha-estradiol, the enantiomer of 17beta-estradiol, 2-(1-adamantyl)-3-hydroxyestra-1,3,5(10)-trien-17-one (ZYC3; non-ER-binding estrogen analog), and/or glutamate. All three compounds, which we have shown to have little or no binding to ERalpha and ERbeta, were protective against glutamate toxicity but not against okadaic acid and calyculin A toxicity. In addition, in the presence of effective concentrations of these inhibitors, the protective effects of these estrogen analogs were lost. Glutamate treatment caused a 50% decrease in levels of protein phosphatase 1 (PP1), protein phosphatase 2A (PP2A), and protein phosphatase 2B (calcineurin) (PP2B). Coadministration of ZYC3 with glutamate prevented the decreases in PP1, PP2A, and PP2B levels. Furthermore, glutamate treatment caused a persistent increase in phosphorylation of extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK) 1/2 that corresponds with the decrease protein levels of serine/threonine phosphatases. ZYC3 blocked this persistent increase in ERK phosphorylation. These results suggest that estrogens protect cells against glutamate-induced oxidative stress through an ER-independent mediated mechanism that serves to preserve phosphatase activity in the face of oxidative insults, resulting in attenuation of the persistent phosphorylation of ERK associated with neuronal death.
We have recently reported that systemic delivery of A-803467 [5-(4-chlorophenyl-N-(3,5-dimethoxyphenyl)furan-2-carboxamide], a selective Na(v)1.8 sodium channel blocker, reduces behavioral measures of chronic pain. In the current study, the effects of A-803467 on evoked and spontaneous firing of wide dynamic range (WDR) neurons were measured in uninjured and rats with spinal nerve ligations (SNLs). Administration of A-803467 (10-30 mg/kg i.v.) reduced mechanically evoked (10-g von Frey hair) and spontaneous WDR neuronal activity in SNL rats. In uninjured rats, A-803467 (20 mg/kg i.v.) transiently reduced evoked but not spontaneous firing of WDR neurons. The systemic effects of A-803467 in SNL rats were not altered by spinal transection or by systemic pretreatment with the transient receptor potential vanilloid type 1 (TRPV1) receptor agonist, resiniferatoxin, at doses that impair the function of TRPV1-expressing fibers. To determine sites of action, A-803467 was administered into spinal tissue, into the uninjured L4 dorsal root ganglion (DRG), or into the neuronal receptive field. Injections of A-803467 into the L4 DRG (30-100 nmol/1 mul) or into the hindpaw receptive field (300 nmol/50 mul) reduced evoked but not spontaneous WDR firing. In contrast, intraspinal (50-150 nmol/0.5 mul) injection of A-803467 decreased both evoked and spontaneous discharges of WDR neurons. Thus, Na(v)1.8 sodium channels on the cell bodies/axons within the L4 DRG as well as on peripheral and central terminals of primary afferent neurons regulate the inflow of low-intensity mechanical signals to spinal WDR neurons. However, Na(v)1.8 sodium channels on central terminals seem to be key to the modulation of spontaneous firing in SNL rats.
Biomarkers have shown promising utilities at various stages of the pharmaceutical R &amp; D. With the recent technological advancements and the introduction of protein and gene arrays, high performance instrumentation (e.g., high-field nuclear magnetic resonance and high-resolution mass spectrometers), and bioinformatics, decisions on safety and efficacy criteria can be made with a higher degree of confidence. However, there is a scarcity of robust and valid biomarkers to accelerate the drug development process from pre-clinical through all stages of clinical studies. In this article, a brief overview of current definitions, biomarker categories, challenges in biological and analytical validation, along with several clinical examples will be presented.
Neuronal activity is tightly coupled with brain energy metabolism. Numerous studies have suggested that lactate is equally important as an energy substrate for neurons as glucose. Lactate production is reportedly triggered by glutamate uptake, and independent of glutamate receptor activation. Here we show that climbing fibre stimulation of cerebellar Purkinje cells increased extracellular lactate by 30% within 30 s of stimulation, but not for briefer stimulation periods. To explore whether lactate production was controlled by pre- or postsynaptic events we silenced AMPA receptors with CNQX. This blocked all evoked rises in postsynaptic activity, blood flow, and glucose and oxygen consumption. CNQX also abolished rises in lactate concomitantly with marked reduction in postsynaptic currents. Rises in lactate were unaffected by inhibition of glycogen phosphorylase, suggesting that lactate production was independent of glycogen breakdown. Stimulated lactate production in cerebellum is derived directly from glucose uptake, and coupled to neuronal activity via AMPA receptor activation.
Primary motor cortex (MI) plays an important role in voluntary motor behaviour, yet considerable debate remains on how neural processing within this brain region contributes to motor function. This article provides a brief review of the dominant conceptual frameworks used to interpret MI activity, notably servo-control during the 1970s and early 1980s, and sensorimotor transformations since that time. The former emphasized the use of feedback, but was abandoned because delays in sensory feedback could not permit sufficient feedback gains to generate observed patterns of limb movement. The latter framework focuses attention on identifying what coordinate frames, or representations, best describe neural processing in MI. However, studies have shown that MI activity correlates with a broad range of parameters of motor performance from spatial target location, hand or joint motion, joint torque and muscle activation patterns. Further, these representations can change across behaviours, such as from posture to movement. What do heterogeneous, labile neural representations mean and how do they help us understand how MI is involved in volitional motor control? Perhaps what is required is a new conceptual framework that re-focuses the experimental problem back on processes of control. Specifically, optimal feedback control has been proposed as a theory of the volitional motor system and it is argued here that it provides a rich, new perspective for addressing the role of MI and other brain regions in volitional motor control.
This report considers serotonergic (5-HT) effects on spinal motoneurons, reviewing previous data and presenting a new study showing distinct effects of two 5-HT receptor subtypes. We previously investigated the effects of 5-HT on motoneurons in a slice preparation from the spinal cord of the adult turtle. In agreement with previous studies, we had found that 5-HT applied to the extracellular medium promoted a voltage sensitive plateau potential. However, we also reported that this effect was only observed in half of the motoneurons; 5-HT inhibited the firing of the other half of the motoneurons recorded from. To investigate the reasons for this, we applied 5-HT focally by means of the microiontophoresis technique. Facilitation of plateau potentials was observed when 5-HT was released at sites throughout the somatodendritic region. However, motoneurons were inhibited by 5-HT when selectively applied in the perisomatic region. These two effects could be induced in the same motoneuron. With pharmacological tools, we demonstrate here that the facilitation of plateau potentials is mediated by 5-HT(2) receptors and the inhibitory effect is due to the activation of 5-HT(1A/7) receptors.
Many forms of diarrhoeal disease, particularly so called &quot;secretory&quot; diarrhoeal disease are thought to arise by the active secretion of chloride ion from the enterocytes, creating an osmotic gradient for fluid movement into the small intestinal lumen. This model implies that normally occurring intestinal secretion is catastrophically enhanced by bacterial enterotoxins. This review advocates that neither normal nor abnormal intestinal secretion from the enterocytes occurs and that no competent proof for chloride secretion exists. Prior to 1970, the physiological evidence failed to support the concept of the formation of intestinal juice as a normal intestinal event. The concept was later revived to explain the high rate of fluid entry into the lumen after exposure to cholera toxin. Much evidence has been advanced for the chloride secretion hypothesis, the dominant secretory paradigm after 1974, but is the evidence sufficiently compelling for it to be regarded as proving the chloride secretory model? The evidence falls into four categories and a fifth conjectural argument that proposes that an abnormal chloride ion channel in cystic fibrotic sufferers confers a natural selective advantage by preventing diarrhoeal disease. Secretion is putatively demonstrated by 1) showing that mass transfer of fluid is into the lumen (secretion) and not merely a failure to transport out of the lumen (failed absorption). Support is offered by 2) chloride ion flux measurements in vitro in Ussing chambers and by 3) short-circuit current measurements that are consistent with and purport to show chloride ion movement into the lumen. In addition, 4) pharmacological agents are identified that affect short-circuit current and these are assumed to be anti-secretory, consistent with the biochemical mechanism for secretion, confirmed wherever possible by mouse knock-out models. Finally, the proxy methods used to study water movement such as elevated short-circuit current measurements show these to be absent in cystic fibrotic patients. The enterocyte secretion hypothesis is challenged here on the basis of an examination of the methods used to show secretion, particularly after exposing the small intestine to heat stable enterotoxin (STa) from E. coli. STa is thought to be secretory because fluid entry into the lumen is claimed, enhanced isotopic flux of chloride ion towards the lumen occurs, an increase in short-circuit current is found, preventable by various drugs that are deemed likely to be anti-secretory and also because the short-circuit current changes after STa are not seen in cystic fibrotic patients. Using volume recovery in vivo, STa is found not to be secretory but only anti-absorptive. Hence, other techniques used to show secretion are not fit for that purpose. If STa is identified as secretory and yet no secretion occurs, how reliable is the evidence for other toxins being secretory when these methods are used? This review concludes that chloride ion secretion is unproven. A review of the literature indicates that secretion occurs not because epithelial cells actively pump water but by interdiction of fluid absorption, increased conductivity through tight junctions and an increased hydrostatic driving force through elevated capillary pressure. The exclusive focus on chloride secretion may explain the failure to develop antisecretory drugs over the last three decades.
Activation of serotonin 1A (5-HT(1A)) receptors has been shown to have diverse effects on respiration. The purpose of this study was to determine changes in respiratory motor pattern of phrenic nerve activity and respiratory rhythm after systemic application of specific 5-HT(1A) receptor agonist 8-hydroxy-2-di-npropylamino-tetralin (8-OH-DPAT). We hypothesized that systemic application of specific 5-HT(1A) receptor agonist 8-OH-DPAT in spontaneously breathing anaesthetized rats will enhance phrenic motor output and phrenic respiratory rate. The study was performed in spontaneously breathing urethane anesthetized rats. Intravenous application of 8-OH-DPAT produced dose dependent increase in the amplitude of integrated phrenic nerve activity and disturbances in respiratory rhythm. Stimulating effect of 8-OH-DPAT on phrenic nerve activity was abolished by intravenous application of the selective 5-HT(1A) receptor antagonist WAY, N-(2-(4,2-methoxyphenyl)-1-piperazinyl)ethyl)-N-2-pyridinyl-cyclohexane-carboxamide maleate (WAY-100635). These results show that stimulation of 5-HT(1A) receptors by intravenous application of 8-OH-DPAT enhances phrenic nerve activity in spontaneously breathing rats.
Melatonin attenuates the short-term consequences of brain ischemia in several animal models. However, there is scant information regarding its efficacy for improving the long-term outcome. To further address that issue, we subjected gerbils to 5-min bilateral carotid occlusion. Some gerbils received acute peri-surgical administration of melatonin while others received continuous melatonin in their water. The gerbils' brains were histologically assessed at 20 wk postsurgery. Chronic but not acute melatonin attenuated ischemia-induced hyperactivity at 3 days postsurgery. Twenty weeks postsurgery, the ischemic gerbils showed varying degrees of bilateral loss of hippocampal CA1 pyramidal cells and elevation of glial fibrillary acidic protein immunoreactivity there. Both the cell loss and the immunoreactivity were markedly asymmetrical for some gerbils. Neither acute nor chronic melatonin altered this pattern of CA1 cell loss and glial immunoreactivity increase. Ischemia increased the number of CA1 cells that were immunoreactive for doublecortin (DCX), a marker for newborn neurons. This increase in CA1 DCX expression was not affected by either melatonin treatment. However, both acute and chronic melatonin reduced the number of DCX immunoreactive neurons in the dentate gyrus. Thus, neither acute nor chronic melatonin altered the long-term neural outcome of forebrain ischemia, although chronic administration seemed to attenuate the short-term behavioral effect. It is suggested that persistently high brain levels of melatonin may be essential for long-term neuroprotection against ischemia. The possibility that melatonin may modulate hippocampal neurogenesis merits further exploration both in normal animals and in models of brain insult.
CK2, an acronym derived from the misnomer &quot;casein kinase 2&quot;, denotes a ubiquitous and extremely pleiotropic Ser/Thr protein kinase, the holoenzyme of which is composed of two catalytic (alpha and/or alpha') and two noncatalytic beta subunits acting as a docking platform and the multifarious functions of which are still incompletely understood. By combining affinity chromatography and mass spectrometry, we have identified 144 mouse brain proteins that associate with immobilized CK2beta. A large proportion (60%) of the identified proteins had been previously reported to be functionally related to CK2, and a similar proportion have been classified as phosphoproteins with approximately half of these having the features of CK2 targets. A large number of the identified proteins ( approximately 40%) either are nuclear or shuttle between the nucleus and cytoplasm, and the biggest functional classes of CK2beta interactors are committed to protein synthesis and degradation (32 proteins) and RNA/DNA interaction (20 proteins). Also well represented are the categories of cytoskeletal/structural proteins (19), trafficking proteins (17), and signaling proteins (14). The identified proteins are examined in relation to their functions and potential as targets and/or regulators of CK2, disclosing in some cases unanticipated links between this kinase and a variety of biochemical events.


There is evidence that the indirect dopamine (DA) agonist amphetamine (AMP) can disrupt selective learning in an aversive overshadowing task, consistent with a role for the DA system in this form of salience manipulation. In the following experiments we assessed in the male Wistar rat: (1) whether amphetamine disruption of overshadowing extends to an appetitively motivated overshadowing task; and (2) whether selective electrolytic lesions to the n.acc (shell versus core subfields) disrupt appetitively motivated overshadowing. The experiments used sucrose reward pellets as the unconditioned stimulus (UCS). In each case, a conditioned stimulus (CS, light) was either conditioned alone or in compound together with a more intense CS (noise or tone). The presence of overshadowing was demonstrated as reduced conditioning to the light when it had been previously conditioned in compound compared to when it had been conditioned alone. It was predicted that AMP and lesions to the n.acc shell would disrupt overshadowing. AMP was found to abolish overshadowing at 0.5 mg/kg, but not at 1 mg/kg. Contrary to prediction, the shell lesioned animals did not differ from shams. The results of Experiment 1 add to the evidence that the DA system can moderate salience processing of weaker predictors, also in cases where CS salience is manipulated directly via the physical intensities of the stimuli, as here. However, in terms of the brain structures involved, Experiment 2 suggests that, overshadowing is moderated by projections of the DA system without n.acc.

Databases have become integral parts of data management, dissemination, and mining in biology. At the Second Annual Conference on Electron Tomography, held in Amsterdam in 2001, we proposed that electron tomography data should be shared in a manner analogous to structural data at the protein and sequence scales. At that time, we outlined our progress in creating a database to bring together cell level imaging data across scales, The Cell Centered Database (CCDB). The CCDB was formally launched in 2002 as an on-line repository of high-resolution 3D light and electron microscopic reconstructions of cells and subcellular structures. It contains 2D, 3D, and 4D structural and protein distribution information from confocal, multiphoton, and electron microscopy, including correlated light and electron microscopy. Many of the data sets are derived from electron tomography of cells and tissues. In the 5 years since its debut, we have moved the CCDB from a prototype to a stable resource and expanded the scope of the project to include data management and knowledge engineering. Here, we provide an update on the CCDB and how it is used by the scientific community. We also describe our work in developing additional knowledge tools, e.g., ontologies, for annotation and query of electron microscopic data.
The emergence of electron tomography as a tool for three dimensional structure determination of cells and tissues has brought its own challenges for the preparation of thick sections. High pressure freezing in combination with freeze substitution provides the best method for obtaining the largest volume of well-preserved tissue. However, for deeply embedded, heterogeneous, labile tissues needing careful dissection, such as brain, the damage due to anoxia and excision before cryofixation is significant. We previously demonstrated that chemical fixation prior to high pressure freezing preserves fragile tissues and produces superior tomographic reconstructions compared to equivalent tissue preserved by chemical fixation alone. Here, we provide further characterization of the technique, comparing the ultrastructure of Flock House Virus infected DL1 insect cells that were (1) high pressure frozen without fixation, (2) high pressure frozen following fixation, and (3) conventionally prepared with aldehyde fixatives. Aldehyde fixation prior to freezing produces ultrastructural preservation superior to that obtained through chemical fixation alone that is close to that obtained when cells are fast frozen without fixation. We demonstrate using a variety of nervous system tissues, including neurons that were injected with a fluorescent dye and then photooxidized, that this technique provides excellent preservation compared to chemical fixation alone and can be extended to selectively stained material where cryofixation is impractical.

Replication of the neurotropic mouse hepatitis virus strain JHM (JHMV) is controlled primarily by CD8(+) T-cell effectors utilizing gamma interferon (IFN-gamma) and perforin-mediated cytotoxicity. CD4(+) T cells provide an auxiliary function(s) for CD8(+) T-cell survival; however, their direct contribution to control of virus replication and pathology is unclear. To examine a direct role of CD4(+) T cells in viral clearance and pathology, pathogenesis was compared in mice deficient in both perforin and IFN-gamma that were selectively reconstituted for these functions via transfer of virus-specific memory CD4(+) T cells. CD4(+) T cells from immunized wild-type, perforin-deficient, and IFN-gamma-deficient donors all initially reduced virus replication. However, prolonged viral control by IFN-gamma-competent donors suggested that IFN-gamma is important for sustained virus control. Local release of IFN-gamma was evident by up-regulation of class II molecules on microglia in recipients of IFN-gamma producing CD4(+) T cells. CD4(+) T-cell-mediated antiviral activity correlated with diminished clinical symptoms, pathology, and demyelination. Both wild-type donor CD90.1 and recipient CD90.2 CD4(+) T cells trafficked into the central nervous system (CNS) parenchyma and localized to infected white matter, correlating with decreased numbers of virus-infected oligodendrocytes in the CNS. These data support a direct, if limited, antiviral role for CD4(+) T cells early during acute JHMV encephalomyelitis. Although the antiviral effector mechanism is initially independent of IFN-gamma secretion, sustained control of CNS virus replication by CD4(+) T cells requires IFN-gamma.
Intersubjectivity is an approach to the study of social interaction viewed from a perspective which rejects the view that reducing any such analysis to study at the level of the individual is adequate to address the issues of social functioning. It also stresses the view that social processes cannot be reduced to cognitive ones - most of the important questions in the study of developmental psychopathology deal with issues which have commonality with many other species and are patent well before the ontological emergence of 'cognitive' abilities. In this paper we review the evidence in this area, and discuss a range of issues relevant to autistic spectrum disorders. We focus in particular on social interaction; the role of the Intrinsic Motive Formation and recent work on mirror neurons in autism; genetic and teratogenic factors in the genesis of autism; and the role of a number of biological factors in pathogenesis - tryptophan; vitamin B12; sterol metabolism; glutamate and GABA; and the Fragile-X expansion.

Follicular lymphoma (FL) is a common subtype of low grade B-cell non-Hodgkin lymphoma (NHL). Although this form of lymphoma often pursues an indolent course, in some cases it may behave in a more aggressive manner. Clinical and histological parameters have been shown to correlate with an adverse prognosis but a number of cytogenetic abnormalities may also be associated with aggressive disease. Although, the t(14;18) in itself does not affect outcome in cases of FL, secondary abnormalities that occur in a complex polyploid karyotype may identify cases with a poor prognosis. It is unusual to find both t(14;18) and C-MYC translocation in the same tumour; those cases in which it has been described include examples of high-grade B-cell NHL (either de novo or transformed FL) or B-cell acute lymphoblastic lymphoma. In this report, three cases of FL are described in which both t(14;18) and a C-MYC translocation were identified at presentation. We also summarize four further cases from the literature. This is a small series but one which raises the possibility that the presence of a C-MYC translocations at presentation may identify a particularly aggressive subtype of FL. Further studies are required to investigate the true incidence of this aberration, the impact on C-MYC regulation, clinical course and response to treatment.
An 89-year-old white male presented with memory impairment, slowness in responsiveness, and frequent falls over a two-year duration. Six months earlier, the patient was believed to have had a &quot;dementia with parkinsonian features,&quot; but showed no response to incrementing doses of both donepezil and carbidopa-levodopa. Urinary urgency was believed to have been due to prostate hypertrophy. A head CT with contrast revealed moderate ventriculomegaly in the setting of mild diffuse cortical atrophy. A diagnosis of idiopathic normal-pressure hydrocephalus (INPH) was made.

In patients with cerebral small vessel disease (SVD) diffusion tensor imaging (DTI) is sensitive to white matter damage and correlates better with cognitive function than conventional imaging. It has been proposed as a surrogate marker for treatment trials. However, the pathological changes underlying DTI are not known. The purpose of this study was to use magnetic resonance spectroscopy (MRS) to determine the pathological changes underlying DTI abnormalities in a range of patients from asymptomatic white matter hyperintensities to symptomatic cerebral SVD. 29 SVD patients, 63 hypertensive subjects, and 42 normotensive controls were recruited. The relationship between the DTI and MRS parameters in the centrum semiovale white matter was determined. There was a significant reduction in N-acetylaspartate (NAA; 2.067 +/- 0.042 vs 2.299 +/- 0.029 and 2.315 +/- 0.036, P = 9 x 10(-6)) and increase in mean diffusivity (mm2/s x 10(-3); 0.942 +/- 0.123 vs 0.822 +/- 0.064 and 0.792 +/- 0.057, P = 1 x 10(-8)) in symptomatic SVD patients compared with the other two groups. DTI parameters correlated with NAA in all three groups, in a graded manner depending on severity of disease (r -SVD -0.827, hypertensive subjects -0.457, controls -0.317). NAA is a marker of axonal loss/dysfunction. These findings are consistent with axonal loss/dysfunction being the principal process causing the DTI changes found in cerebral SVD and ageing.
The dependency of the blood oxygenation level dependent (BOLD) signal on underlying hemodynamics is not well understood. Building a forward biophysical model of this relationship is important for the quantitative estimation of the hemodynamic changes and neural activity underlying functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) signals. We have developed a general model of the BOLD signal which can model both intra- and extravascular signals for an arbitrary tissue model across a wide range of imaging parameters. The model of the BOLD signal was instantiated as a look-up-table (LuT), and was verified against concurrent fMRI and optical imaging measurements of activation induced hemodynamics.
Previous research has shown that dietary magnesium (Mg2+) deficiency prior to injury worsens recovery of function and that systemic administration of Mg2+ pre or post-injury significantly improves functional recovery. The purpose of the present study was to determine if manipulations in dietary Mg2+ would alter functional recovery following unilateral cortical injuries. Two weeks prior to injury, rats were placed on a customized diet enriched with Mg2+, deficient in Mg2+, or on a standard Mg2+ diet. Rats were then prepared with unilateral cortical contusion injuries (CCI) of the sensorimotor cortex. Two days following CCI, rats were tested on a battery of sensorimotor (vibrissae-forelimb placing and bilateral tactile adhesive removal tests), as well as the acquisition of reference memory in the Morris water maze. Serum analysis for Mg2+ prior to injury showed a diet-dependent modulation in levels. The Mg(2+)-enriched diet showed significantly higher levels of serum Mg2+ compared to the normal diet and the Mg(2+)-deficient diet showed significantly lower levels compared to the Mg(2+)-normal diet. On the placing and tactile removal tests Mg2+ deficiency significantly worsened recovery compared to the Mg(2+)-enriched and Mg(2+-)normal diet conditions. There were no statistically significant differences between the Mg(2+)-normal and Mg(2+)-enriched diets on the sensorimotor tests. On the acquisition of reference memory there were no significant difference between diet conditions; however, the Mg(2+)-deficient diet showed a trend toward impaired performance compared to the other diet conditions. The Mg(2+)-deficient diet resulted in a larger lesion cavity compared to the other diet conditions. These findings suggest that dietary Mg2+ modulates recovery of function.
Glucose loading in thiamine-deficient patients is known to precipitate Wernicke's Encephalopathy; however, the mechanisms responsible have not been fully elucidated. Lactate accumulation occurs in brains of thiamine-deficient rats. In order to determine whether glucose loading in thiamine-deficient rats causes selective lactic acidosis in vulnerable brain structures, cerebral pH was measured autoradiographically using 14-labeled 5,5-dimethyloxazolidine-2, 4-dione ([(14)C]DMO) in the medial thalamus, a vulnerable brain region, versus cerebral cortex, a brain region that is spared in thiamine deficiency. Following administration of a glucose load, regional lactate levels and de novo lactate synthesis measured by (1)H-(13)C-NMR spectroscopy, increased significantly to 21.86 +/- 3.04 mumol/g (wet weight) in the medial thalamus (p &lt; 0.001) and pH in this brain region was decreased significantly from 7.08 +/- 0.04 to 6.87 +/- 0.05 (p &lt; 0.001). No such changes were observed in cerebral cortex following a glucose load. These results demonstrate that the increased production and accumulation of brain lactate result in acidosis following glucose loading in thiamine deficiency. Alterations of brain pH could contribute to the pathogenesis of thalamic neuronal damage and consequent cerebral dysfunction in Wernicke's Encephalopathy.
The aim of this study was to evaluate the effects of bee products such as honey, royal jelly and propolis on 5-fluorouracil-induced experimental oral mucositis in hamsters. Oral mucositis was induced in hamsters through a combination of 5-fluorouracil and mild abrasions that were made on the cheek pouch. Honey, royal jelly and propolis were thereafter topically administered to the oral mucosa, and then the healing process was examined by measuring the size of the mucositis. Honey (1%, 10% and 100%) and propolis (0.3%, 1% and 3%) ointments did not reduce the size of the mucositis in comparison to the vaseline-treated control group. However, the royal jelly (3%, 10% and 30%) ointments significantly improved the recovery from 5-fluorouracil-induced damage in a dose-dependent manner. These results suggest the possibility that the topical application of royal jelly has a healing effect on severe oral mucositis induced by chemotherapy.
Scientific investigations of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) and parkinsonism-dementia (PD) of Guam have implicated genetic and environmental risk factors in their etiology. Using brain tissue, we investigated mitochondrial dysfunction and report a higher frequency of somatic mutations in the light strand promoter (LSP) of the mitochondrial control region in Guam ALS and PD patients than in Guam controls, along with the presence of inherited mutations that may contribute to a novel gene-environment interaction risk model. Along with other risk factors, they demonstrate both the importance and significance of genetic and environmental contributions to Guam ALS and PD etiology.
The neuronal cell adhesion molecule (CAM) L1 promotes axonal outgrowth, presumably through an interaction with the fibroblast growth factor receptor (FGFR). The present study demonstrates a direct interaction between L1 fibronectin type III (FN3) modules I-V and FGFR1 immunoglobulin (Ig) modules II and III by surface plasmon resonance analysis. Binding of L1 to FGFR1 was enhanced by adenosine 5'-triphosphate (ATP), adenylylmethylenediphosphonate (AMP-PCP), and guanosine-5'-triphosphate (GTP), but not adenosine monophosphate (AMP). The L1-FN3 modules were capable of activating FGFR1, reflected by receptor phosphorylation, and this resulted in the induction of differentiation of primary neurons, reflected by neurite outgrowth. Furthermore, ATP modulated L1-induced neuronal differentiation and FGFR1 phosphorylation through regulation of the L1-FGFR1 interaction.
The formation of alpha1beta2gamma2epsilon receptors suggests that the epsilon subunit does not displace the single gamma2 subunit in alpha1beta2gamma2 receptors. Thus, epsilon must replace alpha and/or beta subunit(s) if the pentameric receptor structure is to be preserved. To assess the potential for which subunit is replaced in alphabetaepsilon and alphabetagammaepsilon receptors we analyzed the assembly and functional expression of the epsilon subunit with respect to alpha1, beta2 and gamma2 subunits. Using concatenated subunits, we have determined that epsilon is capable of substituting for either (but not both) of the alpha subunits, one of the beta subunits, and possibly the gamma2 subunit. However, the most likely sites at which the epsilon subunit may contribute to receptor function appears to be at position 1 (replaces alpha1) in alphabetagammaepsilon (epsilon-beta2-alpha1-beta2-gamma2) receptors, or at position 4 (replaces beta2) in alphabetaepsilon (alpha1-beta2-alpha1-epsilon-beta2) receptors. In both cases, it appears that only a single GABA binding site is present.
MLC1 gene mutations have been associated with megalencephalic leukoencephalopathy with subcortical cysts (MLC), a rare neurologic disorder in children. The MLC1 gene encodes a membrane protein (MLC1) with unknown function which is mainly expressed in astrocytes. Using a newly developed anti-human MLC1 polyclonal antibody, we have investigated the biochemical properties and localization of MLC1 in cultured astrocytes and brain tissue and searched for evidence of a relationship between MLC1 and proteins of the dystrophin-glycoprotein complex (DGC). Cultured astrocytes express two MLC1 components showing different solubilisation properties and subcellular distribution. Most importantly, we show that the membrane-associated component of MLC1 (60-64 kDa) localizes in astrocytic lipid rafts together with dystroglycan, syntrophin and caveolin-1, and co-fractionates with the DGC in whole rat brain tissue. In the human brain, MLC1 protein is expressed in astrocyte processes and ependymal cells, where it colocalizes with dystroglycan and syntrophin. These data indicate that the DGC may be involved in the organization and function of the MLC1 protein in astrocyte membranes.
The microarray technology has revolutionized biological research in the last decade. By monitoring the expression of many genes simultaneously, microarrays can elucidate gene function, as well as scan entire genomes for candidate genes encoding complex traits. However, because of high costs of sequencing and design, microarrays have largely been restricted to a few model species. Cross-species microarray (CSM) analyses, where microarrays are used for other species than the one they were designed for, have had varied success. We have conducted a CSM analysis by hybridizing genomic DNA from the common whitethroat (Sylvia communis) on a newly developed Affymetrix array designed for the zebra finch (Taeniopygia guttata), the Lund-zf array. The results indicate a very high potential for the zebra finch array to act as a CSM utility in other passerine birds. When hybridizing zebra finch genomic DNA, 98% of the gene representatives had higher signal intensities than the background cut-off, and for the common whitethroat, we found the equivalent proportion to be as high as 96%. This was surprising given the fact that finches and warblers diverged 25-50 million years ago, but may be explained by a relatively low sequence divergence between passerines (89-93%). Passerine birds are widely used in studies of ecology and evolution, and a zebra finch array that can be used for many species may have a large impact on future research directions.
An increased level of glucocorticoid may be related to the pathophysiology of depressive disorder. The involvement of brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) in the antidepressive effect has also been suggested; however, the possible influence of glucocorticoid on the action of BDNF in the developing central nervous system has not been elucidated. In this study, we investigated the effect of glucocorticoid (dexamethasone, DEX) on synaptic maturation and function enhanced by BDNF in early developing hippocampal neurons. In the immature stage, BDNF increased the outgrowth of dendrites and the expression of synaptic proteins including glutamate receptors and presynaptic proteins. Pretreatment with DEX significantly inhibited the BDNF-dependent up-regulation of both dendritic outgrowth and synaptic proteins. In the more mature stage, the BDNF-reinforced postsynaptic Ca(2+) influx was decreased by DEX. BDNF-enhanced presynaptic glutamate release was also suppressed. RU486, a glucocorticoid receptor antagonist, canceled the DEX-dependent blocking effect on the action of BDNF. After down-regulation of glucocorticoid receptor by small interfering RNA application, no inhibitory effect of DEX on the BDNF-increased synaptic proteins was observed. Interestingly, the BDNF-activated MAPK/ERK pathway, which is an essential intracellular signaling pathway for the BDNF-increased synaptic proteins, was reduced by DEX. These results suggest that BDNF-mediated synaptic maturation is disturbed after neurons are exposed to high-level glucocorticoid in their development stage.
The proteins NCX1, NCX2, and NCX3 expressed on the plasma membrane of neurons play a crucial role in ionic regulation because they are the major bidirectional system promoting the efflux and influx of Na(+) and Ca(2+) ions. Here, we demonstrate that NCX1 and NCX3 proteins are novel additional targets for the survival action of the phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (PI3-K)/Akt pathway. Indeed, the doxycycline-dependent overexpression of constitutively active Akt1 in tetracycline (Tet)-Off PC-12 positive mutants and the exposure of Tet-Off PC-12 wild type to nerve growth factor induced an up-regulation of NCX1 and NCX3 proteins. NCX1 up-regulation induced by Akt1 activation occurred at the transcriptional level because NCX1 mRNA increased, and it was counteracted by cAMP response element-binding protein 1 inhibition through small interfering RNA strategy. In contrast, Akt1-induced NCX3 up-regulation recognized a post-transcriptional mechanism occurring at the proteasome level because 1) NCX3 transcript did not increase and 2) the proteasome inhibitor N-benzyloxycarbonyl (Z)-Leu-Leu-leucinal (MG-132) did not further enhance NCX3 protein levels in Akt1 active mutants as it would be expected if the ubiquitin-proteasome complex was not already blocked by Akt1 pathway. As expected, in PC-12 Tet-Off wild-type cells MG-132 enhanced NCX3 protein levels. This up-regulation produced an increased activity of NCX function. Furthermore, NCX1 and NCX3 up-regulation contributed to the survival action of Akt1 during chemical hypoxia because both the silencing of NCX1 or NCX3 and the pharmacological paninhibition of NCX isoforms reduced the prosurvival property of Akt1. Together, these results indicated that NCX1 and NCX3 represent novel additional molecular targets for the prosurvival action of PI3-K/Akt pathway.
Cocaine exerts its stimulatory effect by inhibiting the dopamine transporter (DAT). However, novel benztropine- and rimcazole-based inhibitors show reduced stimulant effects compared with cocaine, despite higher affinity and selectivity for DAT. To investigate possible mechanisms, we compared the subjective effects of different inhibitors with their molecular mode of interaction at the DAT. We determined how different inhibitors affected accessibility of the sulfhydryl-reactive reagent [2-(trimethylammonium)ethyl]-methanethiosulfonate to an inserted cysteine (I159C), which is accessible when the extracellular transporter gate is open but inaccessible when it is closed. The data indicated that cocaine analogs bind an open conformation, whereas benztropine and rimcazole analogs bind a closed conformation. Next, we investigated the changes in inhibition potency of [(3)H]dopamine uptake of the compounds at a mutant DAT (Y335A) characterized by a global change in the conformational equilibrium. We observed a close relationship between the decrease in potencies of inhibitors at this mutant and cocaine-like responding in rats trained to discriminate cocaine from saline injections. Our data suggest that chemically different DAT inhibitors stabilize distinct transporter conformations and that this in turn affects the cocaine-like subjective effects of these compounds in vivo.

Tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-alpha plays an important role in many aspects of immune system development, immune-response regulation, and T-cell-mediated tissue injury. The evidence that TNF-alpha, released by autoreactive T cells and macrophages, may contribute to the pathogenesis of immune-mediated demyelinating neuropathies is reviewed. TNF-alpha antagonists (infliximab, etanercept, adalimumab) are indicated for the treatment of advanced inflammatory rheumatic and bowel disease, but these drugs can induce a range of autoimmune diseases that also attack the central and peripheral nervous systems. Case histories and series report on the association between anti-TNF-alpha treatment and various disorders of peripheral nerve such as Guillain-Barr syndrome, Miller Fisher syndrome, chronic inflammatory demyelinating polyneuropathy, multifocal motor neuropathy with conduction block, mononeuropathy multiplex, and axonal sensorimotor polyneuropathies. The proposed pathogeneses of TNF-alpha-associated neuropathies include both a T-cell and humoral immune attack against peripheral nerve myelin, vasculitis-induced nerve ischemia, and inhibition of signaling support for axons. Most neuropathies improve over a period of months by withdrawal of the TNF-alpha antagonist, with or without additional immune-modulating treatment. Preliminary observations suggest that TNF-alpha antagonists may be useful as an antigen-nonspecific treatment approach to immune-mediated neuropathies in patients with a poor response to, or intolerance of, standard therapies, but further studies are required.

Disruption of signaling pathways such as those mediated by sonic hedgehog (Shh) or platelet-derived growth factor (Pdgf) causes craniofacial abnormalities, including cleft palate. The role that microRNAs play in modulating palatogenesis, however, is completely unknown. We show that, in zebrafish, the microRNA Mirn140 negatively regulates Pdgf signaling during palatal development, and we provide a mechanism for how disruption of Pdgf signaling causes palatal clefting. The pdgf receptor alpha (pdgfra) 3' UTR contained a Mirn140 binding site functioning in the negative regulation of Pdgfra protein levels in vivo. pdgfra mutants and Mirn140-injected embryos shared a range of facial defects, including clefting of the crest-derived cartilages that develop in the roof of the larval mouth. Concomitantly, the oral ectoderm beneath where these cartilages develop lost pitx2 and shha expression. Mirn140 modulated Pdgf-mediated attraction of cranial neural crest cells to the oral ectoderm, where crest-derived signals were necessary for oral ectodermal gene expression. Mirn140 loss of function elevated Pdgfra protein levels, altered palatal shape and caused neural crest cells to accumulate around the optic stalk, a source of the ligand Pdgfaa. These results suggest that the conserved regulatory interactions of mirn140 and pdgfra define an ancient mechanism of palatogenesis, and they provide candidate genes for cleft palate.

Estrogens have long been implicated in influencing cognitive processes, yet the molecular mechanisms underlying these effects and the roles of the estrogen receptors alpha (ERalpha) and beta (ERbeta) remain unclear. Using pharmacological, biochemical and behavioral techniques, we demonstrate that the effects of estrogen on hippocampal synaptic plasticity and memory are mediated through ERbeta. Selective ERbeta agonists increased key synaptic proteins in vivo, including PSD-95, synaptophysin and the AMPA-receptor subunit GluR1. These effects were absent in ERbeta knockout mice. In hippocampal slices, ERbeta activation enhanced long-term potentiation, an effect that was absent in slices from ERbeta knockout mice. ERbeta activation induced morphological changes in hippocampal neurons in vivo, including increased dendritic branching and increased density of mushroom-type spines. An ERbeta agonist, but not an ERalpha agonist, also improved performance in hippocampus-dependent memory tasks. Our data suggest that activation of ERbeta can regulate hippocampal synaptic plasticity and improve hippocampus-dependent cognition.
Pathogenic aggregates of alpha-synuclein are thought to contribute to the development of Parkinson's disease. Inclusion bodies containing alpha-synuclein are present in Parkinson's disease and other neurodegenerative diseases, including Alzheimer's disease. Moreover, alpha-synuclein mutations are found in cases of familial Parkinson's disease, and transgenic overexpression of alpha-synuclein causes neurodegeneration in mice. The molecular mechanisms involved, however, remain incompletely understood. Here we show that, in transgenic mice, alpha-synuclein induced neurodegeneration involves activation of the ubiquitin/proteasome system, a massive increase in apolipoprotein E (ApoE) levels and accumulation of insoluble mouse Abeta. ApoE was not protective, but was injurious, as deletion of ApoE delayed the neurodegeneration caused by alpha-synuclein and suppressed the accumulation of Abeta. Our data reveal a molecular link between central pathogenic mechanisms implicated in Parkinson's disease and Alzheimer's disease and suggest that intracellular alpha-synuclein is pathogenic, at least in part, by activation of extracellular signaling pathways involving ApoE.
Dominant mutations in superoxide dismutase cause amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS), an adult-onset neurodegenerative disease that is characterized by the loss of motor neurons. Using mice carrying a deletable mutant gene, diminished mutant expression in astrocytes did not affect onset, but delayed microglial activation and sharply slowed later disease progression. These findings demonstrate that mutant astrocytes are viable targets for therapies for slowing the progression of non-cell autonomous killing of motor neurons in ALS.
The hippocampus appears to be crucial for long-term episodic memory, yet its precise role remains elusive. Electrophysiological studies in rodents offer a useful starting point for developing models of hippocampal processing in the spatial domain. Here we review one such model that points to an essential role for the hippocampus in the construction of mental images. We explain how this neural-level mechanistic account addresses some of the current controversies in the field, such as the role of the hippocampus in imagery and short-term memory, and discuss its broader implications for the neural bases of episodic memory.
The ultimate product of an electrophysiology experiment is often a decision on which biological hypothesis or model best explains the observed data. We outline a paradigm designed for comparison of different models, which we refer to as spike train prediction. A key ingredient of this paradigm is a prediction quality valuation that estimates how close a predicted conditional intensity function is to an actual observed spike train. Although a valuation based on log likelihood (L) is most natural, it has various complications in this context. We propose that a quadratic valuation (Q) can be used as an alternative to L. Q shares some important theoretical properties with L, including consistency, and the two valuations perform similarly on simulated and experimental data. Moreover, Q is more robust than L, and optimization with Q can dramatically improve computational efficiency. We illustrate the utility of Q for comparing models of peer prediction, where it can be computed directly from cross-correlograms. Although Q does not have a straightforward probabilistic interpretation, Q is essentially given by Euclidean distance.
Identifying the optimal stimuli for a sensory neuron is often a difficult process involving trial and error. By analyzing the relationship between stimuli and responses in feedforward and stable recurrent neural network models, we find that the stimulus yielding the maximum firing rate response always lies on the topological boundary of the collection of all allowable stimuli, provided that individual neurons have increasing input-output relations or gain functions and that the synaptic connections are convergent between layers with nondegenerate weight matrices. This result suggests that in neurophysiological experiments under these conditions, only stimuli on the boundary need to be tested in order to maximize the response, thereby potentially reducing the number of trials needed for finding the most effective stimuli. Even when the gain functions allow firing rate cutoff or saturation, a peak still cannot exist in the stimulus-response relation in the sense that moving away from the optimum stimulus always reduces the response. We further demonstrate that the condition for nondegenerate synaptic connections also implies that proper stimuli can independently perturb the activities of all neurons in the same layer. One example of this type of manipulation is changing the activity of a single neuron in a given processing layer while keeping that of all others constant. Such stimulus perturbations might help experimentally isolate the interactions of selected neurons within a network.
Numerous single-unit recording studies have found mammalian hippocampal neurons that fire selectively for the animal's location in space, independent of its orientation. The population of such neurons, commonly known as place cells, is thought to maintain an allocentric, or orientation-independent, internal representation of the animal's location in space, as well as mediating long-term storage of spatial memories. The fact that spatial information from the environment must reach the brain via sensory receptors in an inherently egocentric, or viewpoint-dependent, fashion leads to the question of how the brain learns to transform egocentric sensory representations into allocentric ones for long-term memory storage. Additionally, if these long-term memory representations of space are to be useful in guiding motor behavior, then the reverse transformation, from allocentric to egocentric coordinates, must also be learned. We propose that orientation-invariant representations can be learned by neural circuits that follow two learning principles: minimization of reconstruction error and maximization of representational temporal inertia. Two different neural network models are presented that adhere to these learning principles, the first by direct optimization through gradient descent and the second using a more biologically realistic circuit based on the restricted Boltzmann machine (Hinton, 2002; Smolensky, 1986). Both models lead to orientation-invariant representations, with the latter demonstrating place-cell-like responses when trained on a linear track environment.
Currently, there is a lack of general-purpose in-place learning networks that model feature layers in the cortex. By &quot;general-purpose&quot; we mean a general yet adaptive high-dimensional function approximator. In-place learning is a biological concept rooted in the genomic equivalence principle, meaning that each neuron is fully responsible for its own learning in its environment and there is no need for an external learner. Presented in this paper is the Multilayer In-place Learning Network (MILN) for this ambitious goal. Computationally, in-place learning provides unusually efficient learning algorithms whose simplicity, low computational complexity, and generality are set apart from typical conventional learning algorithms. Based on the neuroscience literature, we model the layer 4 and layer 2/3 as the feature layers in the 6-layer laminar cortex, with layer 4 using unsupervised learning and layer 2/3 using supervised learning. As a necessary requirement for autonomous mental development, MILN generates invariant neurons in different layers, with increasing invariance from earlier to later layers and the total invariance in the last motor layer. Such self-generated invariant representation is enabled mainly by descending (top-down) connections. The self-generated invariant representation is used as intermediate representations for learning later tasks in open-ended development.
The early visual cortices represent information of several stimulus attributes, such as orientation and color. To understand the coding mechanisms of these attributes in the brain, and the functional organization of the early visual cortices, it is necessary to determine whether different attributes are represented by different compartments within each cortex. Previous studies addressing this question have focused on the information encoded by the response amplitude of individual neurons or cortical columns, and have reached conflicting conclusions. Given the correlated variability in response amplitude across neighboring columns, it is likely that the spatial pattern of responses across these columns encodes the attribute information more reliably than does the response amplitude. Here we present a new method of mapping the spatial distribution of information that is encoded by both the response amplitude and the spatial pattern. This new method is based on a statistical learning approach, the Support Vector Machine (SVM). Application of this new method to our optical imaging data suggests that information about stimulus orientation and color are distributed differently in the striate cortex, and this observation is consistent with the hypothesis of segregated representations of orientation and color in this area. We also demonstrate that SVM can be used to extract &quot;single-condition&quot; activation maps from noisy images of intrinsic optical signals.
We propose a mechanism to explain both retrospective and prospective recall activity found in experimental data from hippocampal regions CA3 and CA1. Our model of temporal context dependent episodic memory replicates reverse recall in CA1, as recently recorded and published [Foster, D., &amp; Wilson, M. (2006). Reverse replay of behavioural sequences in hippocampal place cells during the awake state. Nature, 440, 680-683], as well as the prospective and retrospective activity recorded in region CA3 during spatial tasks [Johnson, A., &amp; Redish, A. (2006). Neural ensembles in ca3 transiently encode paths forward of the animal at a decision point: a possible mechanism for the consideration of alternatives. In 2006 neuroscience meeting planner. Atlanta, GA: Society for Neuroscience. (Program no. 574.2)]. We suppose that CA3 encodes episodic memory of both forward and reversed sequences of perforant path spikes representing place input. Using a persistent firing buffer mechanism in layer II of entorhinal cortex, simulated episodic learning involves dentate gyrus, layer III of entorhinal cortex, and hippocampal regions CA3 and CA1. Associations are formed between buffered episodic cues, unique temporal context specific representations in dentate gyrus, and episodic memory in the CA3 recurrent network.
In this study, we address the hypothesis that aging modifies the intrinsic properties of oligodendrocytes, the myelin-forming cells of the brain. According to our model, an &quot;epigenetic memory&quot; is stored in the chromatin of the oligodendrocyte lineage cells and is responsible for the maintenance of a mature phenotype, characterized by low levels of expression of transcriptional inhibitors. We report here an age-related decline of histone deacetylation and methylation, the molecular mechanisms responsible for the establishment and maintenance of this &quot;epigenetic memory&quot; of the differentiated state. We further show that lack of histone methylation and increased acetylation in mature oligodendrocytes are associated with global changes in gene expression, that include the re-expression of bHLH inhibitors (i.e. Hes5 and Id4) and precursor markers (i.e. Sox2). These changes characteristic of the &quot;aging&quot; oligodendrocytes can be recapitulated in vitro, by treating primary oligodendrocyte cultures with histone deacetylase inhibitors. Thus, we conclude that the &quot;epigenetic memory loss&quot; detected in white matter tracts of older mice induces global changes of gene expression that modify the intrinsic properties of aged oligodendrocytes and may functionally modulate the responsiveness of these cells to external stimuli.
The early motor manifestations of Parkinson's disease (PD) reflect degeneration of nigrostriatal dopamine neurons projecting to the caudal putamen. However, extrastriatal dopamine and other monoamine systems are also involved, particularly in later disease. We used (18)F-dopa PET in a cross-sectional study to characterize extrastriatal monoamine neuronal dysfunction in PD. 16 Controls and 41 patients underwent investigation. We found that (18)F-dopa uptake was decreased in cortical motor areas, particularly the motor cortex, even in early disease. Frontal association areas were also affected in later disease but limbic areas were spared except for hypothalamus. The substantia nigra, midbrain raphe and locus coeruleus showed normal or increased (18)F-dopa uptake until PD was advanced, indicating compensatory responses in intact monoamine neuron perikarya. The red nucleus, subthalamus, ventral thalamus and pineal gland were also eventually involved. These findings provide a further basis for understanding the complex pathophysiology of PD in vivo and complement pathological studies.
The prevailing textbook view that de novo protein synthesis is required for memory (e.g., [Bear, M. F., Connors, B., &amp; Paradiso, M. 2006. Neuroscience. Lippincott, New York]) is seriously flawed and an alternative hypothesis has been proposed in which post-translational modification (PTM) of proteins already synthesized and already present within the synapse is 'the' substrate for long-lasting memory. Protein synthesis serves a replenishment role. The first part of this review discusses how long-lasting memory can be achieved with 'only' PTM of existing synaptic proteins. The second part critically reviews a recent report published in Neuron 2007 that exemplifies the current view of protein synthesis and memory while also illustrating how these results can be understood within this new PTM framework. A necessary yet unexpected conclusion to emerge from consideration of the consequences of a PTM mechanism as the necessary, sufficient and exclusive substrate for long-lasting memory, is that the central Hebbian dogma that cells that 'fire together, wire together' is an unlikely mechanism for long-lasting memory. Thus, a unique feature of the PTM model is that longevity of information storage is achieved not by stability of the synaptic mechanism, but by impermanent pseudoredundant circuits. This is so because PTM is a reversible process and thus any permanent connection, any 'lasting effect' cannot be in the form of stable synapse formation. We have therefore proposed a solution in which network level processes regulate cellular mechanisms, even as such mechanisms regulate the network. Thus, synapses are 'meta-stabilized' by regulated feedback mediated by the circuit in which the synapse is embedded. For example, spontaneous activity is proposed to be a substrate feedback mechanism we term 'cryptic rehearsal' to sustain for some period of time after learning an approximation to the state initially created by input. Additionally, because the duplication of these traces is ongoing, this provides a degenerate code for the engram. Stability is thus achieved, not by stabilizing the synapse, but by implementing a pseudo-redundant yet malleable circuitry so that memory can be protected in the face of small catastrophes in network representation.
Studies using protein synthesis inhibitors have provided key support for the prevalent view that memory formation requires the initiation of protein synthesis as a primary element of the molecular biology of memory. However, many other interpretations of the amnesia data have received far less attention. These include: (a) protein synthesis may play a constitutive role in memory formation, providing proteins prior to an experience that can be activated by training; (b) protein synthesis may be needed to replace proteins available prior to learning but 'consumed' by learning; (c) inhibition of protein synthesis impairs the well-being of neurons, leading to an inability to deliver resources needed for memory formation; and (d) inhibition of protein synthesis results in abnormal neural functions that interfere with memory. One of these, abnormal release of neurotransmitters after inhibition of protein synthesis, is detailed here, along with a review of many circumstances in which it appears that protein synthesis at the time of training is not required for the formation of new memories. Evidence of activation of cell signaling molecules and transcription factors is another form of support for a role of training-initiated protein synthesis in memory. However, recent findings suggest that many of these molecules are activated by training and remain activated for days after training, i.e. activated for times well beyond those typically invoked for memory consolidation processes. Reviewing these results, this paper suggests that the long-lasting molecular changes may be the basis of a form of intracellular memory, one responsible for up-regulating the probability that a neuron, once activated in this manner, will engage in future plasticity. This view melds ideas of modulation of memory with those of consolidation of memory.
Determining how neuronal networks encode memories is a key goal of neuroscience. Although neuronal circuit processes involved in encoding, storing and retrieving memory have attracted a great deal of attention, the processes that allocate individual memories to specific neurons within a network have remained elusive. Recent findings unraveled the first insights into the processes that modulate memory allocation in neuronetworks. They showed that neurons in the lateral amygdala compete to take part in auditory fear conditioned memory traces and that the levels of the transcription factor CREB (cAMP-response element binding protein) can affect the probability of a neuron to be recruited into a given memory representation. CREB-mediated transcriptional regulation involves several signaling pathways, known to mediate nuclear responses to diverse behavioral stimuli, along with coordinated interactions with multiple other transcription activators, coactivators and repressors. Moreover, activation of CREB triggers an autoinhibitory feedback loop, a metaplastic process that could be used to allocate memories away from cells that have been recently involved in memory. Beyond CREB, there may be a host of other processes that dynamically modulate memory allocation in neuronetworks by shaping cooperation and competition among neurons.
Despite the fact that extensive evidence supports the view that phases of de novo protein synthesis are necessary for memory formation and maintenance, doubts are still raised. Skeptics generally argue that amnesia and the disruption of long-term synaptic plasticity are caused by &quot;non-specific effects&quot; of the reagents or approaches used to disrupt protein synthesis. This paper attempts to clarify some of these issues by reviewing, discussing and providing results addressing some of the major critiques that argue against the idea that de novo protein synthesis is necessary for the stabilization of long-term memory.
The de novo protein synthesis hypothesis has a long history and will no doubt continue to influence research. Yet, the primary behavioral evidence for this claim continues to come from studies in which amnesia is produced by broad scale protein synthesis inhibitors such as anisomycin. What is remarkable is the uncritical acceptance of the idea that because anisomycin is a protein synthesis inhibitor then it must have produced amnesia because it prevented translation. Several viable alternative interpretations of such experiments are discussed here and it is concluded that there is nothing to be gained by the continued use of broad-scaled antibiotics to address this hypothesis. Moreover, this approach cannot answer two critical and related questions - why must new proteins be synthesized and what are they? A focus on specific proteins such as those synthesized locally and upregulate the translation of other proteins may be a promising approach to answering these questions.
Over the past 20 years it has become apparent that certain steroids, synthesised de novo in the brain, hence named neurosteroids, produce immediate changes (within seconds) in neuronal excitability, a time scale that precludes a genomic locus of action. Identified molecular targets underlying modulation of brain excitability include both the inhibitory GABA(A) and the excitatory NMDA receptor. Of particular interest is the interaction of certain neurosteroids with the GABA(A) receptor, the major inhibitory receptor in mammalian brain. During the last decade, compelling evidence has accrued to reveal that locally produced neurosteroids may selectively &quot;fine tune&quot; neuronal inhibition. A range of molecular mechanisms including the subunit composition of the receptor(s), phosphorylation and local steroid metabolism, underpin the region- and neuronal selectivity of action of neurosteroids at synaptic and extrasynaptic GABA(A) receptors. The relative contribution played by each of these mechanisms in a variety of physiological and pathophysiological scenarios is currently being scrutinised at a cellular and molecular level. However, it is not known how such mechanisms may act in concert to influence behavioural profiles in health and disease. An important question concerns the identification of the anatomical substrates mediating the repertoire of behaviours produced by neurosteroids. &quot;Knock-in&quot; mice expressing mutant GABA(A) subunits engineered to be insensitive to benzodiazepines or general anaesthetics have proved invaluable in evaluating the role of GABA(A) receptor subtypes in complex behaviours such as sedation, cognition and anxiety [Rudolph, U., Mohler, H., 2006. GABA-based therapeutic approaches: GABA(A) receptor subtype functions. Curr. Opin. Pharmacol. 6, 18-23]. However, the development of a similar approach for neurosteroids has been hampered by the limited knowledge that, until recently, has surrounded the identity of the amino acid residues contributing to the neurosteroid binding pocket. Here, we will review recent progress in identifying the neurosteroid binding site on the GABA(A) receptor, and discuss how these discoveries will impact on our understanding of the role of neurosteroids in health and disease.
Acetylcholine was the first neurotransmitter identified and ATP is the hitherto final compound added to the list of small molecule neurotransmitters. Despite the wealth of evidence assigning a signaling role to extracellular ATP and other nucleotides in neural and non-neural tissues, the significance of this signaling pathway was accepted very reluctantly. In view of this, this short commentary contrasts the principal molecular and functional components of the cholinergic signaling pathway with those of ATP and other nucleotides. It highlights pathways of their discovery and analyses tissue distribution, synthesis, uptake, vesicular storage, receptors, release, extracellular hydrolysis as well as pathophysiological significance. There are differences but also striking similarities. Comparable to ACh, ATP is taken up and stored in synaptic vesicles, released in a Ca(2+)-dependent manner, acts on nearby ligand-gated or metabotropic receptors and is hydrolyzed extracellularly. ATP and acetylcholine are also costored and coreleased. In addition, ATP is coreleased from biogenic amine storing nerve terminals as well as from at least subpopulations of glutamatergic and GABAergic terminals. Both ACh and ATP fulfill the criteria postulated for neurotransmitters. More recent evidence reveals that the two messengers are not confined to neural functions, exerting a considerable variety of non-neural functions in non-innervated tissues. While it has long been known that a substantial number of pathologies originate from malfunctions of the cholinergic system there is now ample evidence that numerous pathological conditions have a purinergic component.
In the previous reports, we showed that the familial Alzheimer's disease (AD)-linked presenilin-1 (PS1) mutation induced the fragility to the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress and that caspase-4 mediates ER stress-induced- and beta-amyloid induced-apoptotic signaling in human cells. These results suggest the involvement of ER stress and caspase-4 in the cell death observed in AD. In this report, we studied the activation of caspase-4 in the familial AD-linked PS1 mutation (DeltaE9). Cleavage of caspase-4 under ER stress was enhanced by the overexpression of the familial AD-linked mutation (DeltaE9), showing that caspase-4 is a key caspase involved in the apoptotic signaling of AD. We also showed that the overexpression of caspase-4 induced cleavage of caspase-9 and caspase-3 without releasing cytochrome-c from the mitochondria. Thus, caspase-4 activates downstream caspases independently of mitochondrial apoptotic signaling and this might contribute to the pathogenesis of AD. To sum up our data, the familial AD-linked PS1 mutation accelerates the cleavage of caspase-4 under the ER stress and results in the activation of caspase-9 and caspase-3, apoptosis signal, without releasing cytochrome-c.
Fatigue is a common debilitating complication of primary biliary cirrhosis (PBC), the pathophysiologic mechanism of which is poorly understood. Recently, the neuroactive steroid dehydroepinadrosterone sulfate (DHEAS) was reported to be implicated in Chronic Fatigue Syndrome in the absence of liver disease. The present study was undertaken to analyse fatigue scores and their relationship with disease severity and circulating levels of DHEAS as well as its precursors DHEA and pregnenolone in PBC patients with (n=15) or without fatigue (n=10) compared to control subjects (n=11). Fatigue was assessed using the fatigue impact scale (FIS) including cognitive, physical and psychosocial subclasses. Steroids were measured by radioimmunoassay or gas chromatography/mass spectrometry. Plasma concentrations of DHEAS were significantly reduced in PBC patients with fatigue as compared to controls, while those of its precursors DHEA and pregnenolone remained within the control range. Plasma levels of DHEAS in PBC patients were significantly correlated with fatigue severity as reflected by total FIS scores including total (rp=-0.42; p=0.018), as well as the cognitive (rp=-0.37; p=0.03), physical (rp=-0.48; p=0.006) and psychosocial (rp=-0.35; p=0.04) subclasses of fatigue scores. No correlation of fatigue scores was observed with indices of liver function. These findings suggest that reduced levels of the neurosteroid DHEAS may contribute to fatigue in patients with PBC; substitutive therapy using DHEAS or its precursor DHEA could be beneficial in the management of fatigue in patients with low levels of DHEAS.
The combination of pulse-chase experiments with high-performance liquid chromatography and continuous flow scintillation detection was used successfully to determine the effects of chronic diabetes on neurosteroid production in the adult rat spinal cord. The long-term diabetes was induced by treatment of adult rats with streptozotocin. In the first part, the review provides an extensive description of the HPLC combined with continuous flow scintillation detection method, its advantages and appropriateness for the question investigated. Afterwards, the paper shows that progesterone formation is up-regulated in the spinal cord of diabetic rats while the biosynthesis of tetrahydroprogesterone decreased. The down-regulation of tetrahydroprogesterone appeared as a mechanism facilitating progesterone accumulation in the spinal cord of streptozotocin-treated rats. Progesterone is well known to be a potent neuroprotective steroid. Enhancement of its biosynthesis may be an endogenous mechanism triggered by neural cells in the spinal tissue to cope with degenerative effects provoked by chronic diabetes. Since steroid metabolism in the spinal cord is pivotal for the modulation of several neurobiological processes including sensorimotor activities, the data analyzed herein may constitute useful information for the development of efficient strategies against deleterious effects of diabetes on the nervous system.
Hepatic encephalopathy (HE) is a serious cerebral complication of both acute and chronic liver failure. In acute liver failure, astrocytes undergo swelling which results in increased intracranial pressure and may lead to brain herniation and death. In chronic liver failure, Alzheimer-type II astrocytosis is the characteristic neuropathologic finding. Patients with liver failure manifest severe alterations of their quality of life including sleep disorders as well as memory, learning, and locomotor abnormalities. Neurosteroids (NS) are synthesized in the brain mainly by astrocytes independent of peripheral steroidal sources (adrenals and gonads) and are suggested to play a role in the pathogenesis of HE. NS bind and modulate different types of neural receptors; effects on the gamma amino butyric acid (GABA)-A receptor complex are the most extensively studied. For example, the NS tetrahydroprogesterone (allopregnanolone), and tetrahydrodeoxycorticosterone (THDOC) are potent positive allosteric modulators of the GABA-A receptor. As a consequence of modulation of these receptors, NS stimulate inhibitory neurotransmission in the CNS, and neuroinhibitory changes including &quot;increased GABA-ergic tone&quot; have been suggested as pathophysiological mechanisms in HE. Moreover, some NS bind to intracellular receptors through which they also regulate gene expression, and there is substantial evidence confirming that expression of genes coding for key astrocytic and neuronal proteins are altered in HE. This review summarizes findings consistent with the involvement of NS in human and experimental HE.
Recent evidence has suggested that compounds affecting GABAergic transmission may provide useful pharmacological tools for the treatment of cocaine addiction. Using a rat model of self-administration, the present study examined the effects of GABA agonists and antagonists injected directly into the ventral tegmental area (VTA) on cocaine intake in rats trained to self-administer cocaine (0, 125, 250 and 500 microg/infusion) under an FR5 schedule of reinforcement. Separate groups of rats received bilateral intra-VTA injections of the GABA-A antagonist picrotoxin (34 ng/side, n = 7; 68 ng/side, n = 8), GABA-A agonist muscimol (14 ng/side, n = 8), GABA-B agonist baclofen (56 ng/side, n = 7; 100 ng/side, n = 6), picrotoxin (68 ng/side) co-injected with the GABA-B antagonist 2-hydroxysaclofen (100 ng/side, n = 7; 2 microg/side, n = 8) or artificial cerebrospinal fluid (aCSF, n = 6) to assess the effects of the various compounds on the cocaine self-administration dose-response curve. Both picrotoxin and baclofen reduced responding maintained by cocaine, whereas muscimol had no effect on responding. In contrast, neither picrotoxin (n = 6) nor baclofen (n = 8) affected responding maintained by food. Interestingly, 2-hydroxysaclofen effectively blocked the suppression of responding produced by picrotoxin, suggesting that both picrotoxin and baclofen exert their effects via activation of GABA-B receptors. Additionally, these effects appear to be specific to cocaine reinforcement, supporting current investigation of baclofen as a treatment for cocaine addiction.
In the present study we investigated the role of 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT) and 5-HT1A receptor during liver regeneration after partial hepatectomy (PH) and N-nitrosodiethylamine (NDEA) induced hepatocellular carcinoma in male Wistar rats. 5-HT content was significantly increased during liver regeneration after PH and NDEA induced hepatocellular carcinoma. Scatchard analysis using 8-OH-DPAT, a 5-HT1A specific agonist showed a decreased receptor during liver regeneration after PH and NDEA induced hepatocellular carcinoma. 5-HT when added alone to primary hepatocyte culture did not increase DNA synthesis but was able to increase the EGF mediated DNA synthesis and inhibit the TGF beta 1 mediated DNA synthesis suppression in vitro. This confirmed the co-mitogenic activity of 5-HT. 8-OH-DPAT at a concentration of 10(-4) M inhibited the basal and EGF-mediated DNA synthesis in primary hepatocyte cultures. It also suppressed the TGF beta 1-mediated DNA synthesis suppression. This clearly showed that activated 5-HT1A receptor inhibited hepatocyte DNA synthesis. Our results suggest that decreased hepatic 5-HT1A receptor function during hepatocyte regeneration and neoplasia has clinical significance in the control of cell proliferation.
The effects of electro-acupuncture (EA) on the expression of platelet derived growth factor (PDGF) in spared dorsal root ganglion (DRG) and associated dorsal horns were evaluated in cats subjected to bilateral removal of L1-L5 and L7-S2 DRG, while sparing L6 DRG and were demonstrated using Immunohistochemistry, Western blot and RT-PCR techniques. On the acupunctured side, there was a significant increase in the total number of PDGF positive neurons. Large neurons of the L6 DRG at 7 days post operation (dpo), and small to medium-sized neurons at 14 dpo, as well as in the lamina II of the L6 spinal cord at 14 dpo was observed. The expression of PDGF protein increased significantly in the L6 DRG at 7 and 14 dpo and in the dorsal horn of the L6 spinal cord at 14 dpo while the upregulation of PDGF mRNA was seen at 3 dpo in the L6 DRG and the dorsal horn of the L3 and L6 spinal cord. These findings demonstrate that intrinsic PDGF has been upregulated in cats subjected to partial dorsal root ganglionectomy following EA, indicating endogenous PDGF is involved in promoting spinal plasticity following EA.
Antidepressants are commonly prescribed for patients with functional dyspepsia. However, the effect of tricyclic antidepressants on satiation and gastric emptying remains unclear, and there are no data for tetracyclic compounds. To compare the effects of nortriptyline (maximum dose: 50 mg daily) and mirtazapine (30 mg daily) vs placebo on gastric emptying, gastric satiation and postprandial symptoms after a nutrient load in healthy volunteers. Randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled study evaluated gastric function before and after 14 days of nortriptyline (n = 13), mirtazapine (n = 13), or placebo (n = 14) in healthy volunteers. Validated methods were used to study gastric emptying ((13)C-octanoate) and satiation postnutrient drink test. The three arms were comparable with regard to age, gender, body mass index and hospital anxiety/depression scale. There were no statistically significant effects of mirtazapine or nortriptyline on gastric emptying compared to placebo (P = 0.34). Maximum tolerated volume was similar on drug and placebo (P = 0.56). Aggregate symptom score 30 min postmaximum tolerated volume after nutrient drink challenge on placebo was 132 (+/-21), vs 165 (+/-21) on mirtazapine, and 126 (+/-21) on nortriptyline 50 mg respectively (P = 0.28). Tricyclic and tetracyclic antidepressant agents do not appear to have significant effects on gastric motor or satiation postnutrient challenge in healthy individuals at the doses tested.
Adrenergic and serotonergic mechanisms alter human gut motor functions. Genotype variation influences phenotype. Our aim was to test the hypothesis that variation in genes that control these functions is associated with gastrointestinal (GI) motor functions in humans with functional GI disorders (FGID). A database of 251 people was assembled by combining genotype data with measurements of gut transit and gastric volumes. Genetic variations evaluated were: alpha(2A) adrenergic (C-1291G), alpha(2C) (Del 332-325), 5-HT transporter (SLC6A4) and GNbeta3 (C825T). We sought associations between motor function or disease groups and genotypes, adjusting for age, gender and body mass index. Among 251 participants, 82 were healthy, 20 with irritable bowel syndrome (IBS) with mixed bowel habit, 49 with constipation-predominant IBS, 67 with diarrhoea-predominant IBS and 33 with functional dyspepsia. For all candidate genes, there was no significant association between motor function and wildtype vs non-wildtype gene status. There were significant interactions between genotype and motility phenotype, specifically GNbeta3 and alpha(2A) and gastric emptying at 4 h. Borderline associations were noted for SCL6A4 and alpha(2A) and postprandial gastric volume, and for alpha(2C) and gastric emptying at 2 h. We conclude that genotype variation may affect gastric motor functions in different FGID phenotypes. However, these candidate genes account for only a limited amount of the variance in gastric function of patients with FGID.
The discrimination of voice-onset time, an acoustic-phonetic cue to voicing in stop consonants, was investigated to explore the neural systems underlying the perception of a rapid temporal speech parameter. Pairs of synthetic stimuli taken from a [da] to [ta] continuum varying in voice-onset time (VOT) were presented for discrimination judgments. Participants exhibited categorical perception, discriminating 15-ms and 30-ms between-category comparisons and failing to discriminate 15-ms within-category comparisons. Contrastive analysis with a tone discrimination task demonstrated left superior temporal gyrus activation in all three VOT conditions with recruitment of additional regions, particularly the right inferior frontal gyrus and middle frontal gyrus for the 15-ms between-category stimuli. Hemispheric differences using anatomically defined regions of interest showed two distinct patterns with anterior regions showing more activation in the right hemisphere relative to the left hemisphere and temporal regions demonstrating greater activation in the left hemisphere relative to the right hemisphere. Activation in the temporal regions appears to reflect initial acoustic-perceptual analysis of VOT. Greater activation in the right hemisphere anterior regions may reflect increased processing demands, suggesting involvement of the right hemisphere when the acoustic distance between the stimuli are reduced and when the discrimination judgment becomes more difficult.
In this study, a resting-state fMRI based classifier, for the first time, was proposed and applied to discriminate children with attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) from normal controls. On the basis of regional homogeneity (ReHo), a mapping of brain function at resting state, PCA-based Fisher discriminative analysis (PC-FDA) was trained to build a linear classifier. Permutation test was then conducted to identify the brain areas with the most significant contribution to the final discrimination. Experimental results showed a correct classification rate of 85% using a leave-one-out cross-validation. Moreover, some highly discriminative brain regions, like the prefrontal cortex and anterior cingulate cortex, well confirmed the previous findings on ADHD. Interestingly, some important but less reported regions such as the thalamus were also identified. We conclude that the classifier, using resting-state brain function as classification feature, has potential ability to improve current diagnosis and treatment evaluation of ADHD.





The effects of S 24795, a newly developed partial agonist at alpha7 nAChRs, were tested on synaptic transmission and plasticity using extracellular field excitatory postsynaptic potentials (fEPSPs) evoked in the CA1 region by Schaffer collateral stimulation in hippocampal slices obtained from adult mice. S 24795 reduced the amplitude of the fEPSPs in a concentration-dependent manner with an IC(50) of 127 microM and a Hill coefficient of 1.1. The reduction in amplitude of the fEPSPs started at S 24795 concentrations higher than 3muM and reached 71% of controls at 300 microM. This effect was mediated by alpha7 nAChRs since it was blocked by nAChR antagonists and was not observed in alpha7 -/- mice. This effect was probably due to a reduction in glutamate release from presynaptic terminals since it was associated with a significant increase in the paired pulse ratio. In addition, S 24795 (100 microM) significantly reduced the frequency, but not the amplitude of spontaneous excitatory postsynaptic currents, recorded in the whole cell configuration of the patch clamp technique (in voltage clamp mode), further supporting a presynaptic site of action of S 24795. In addition, S 24795 at 3 microM, a concentration that did not affect basic synaptic transmission, potentiated LTP. This effect was mediated by alpha7 nAChRs since it was prevented by MLA (10 nM) and was absent in alpha7 -/- mice. Galantamine an allosteric modulator of nAChRs, at the concentrations of 0.3-3 microM, failed to potentiate LTP. In view of its powerful effect on LTP and on cognitive function, S 24795 can be considered a novel useful tool for the treatment of AD patients and other senile forms of dementia.
Verbal memory is known to be affected by word features. Concrete words are remembered better than abstract words (concreteness effect), presumably due to the concurrent activation of image-based and/or semantic associations. Vivid remembering during recognition (recollection) has been linked to the hippocampus and is thought to be more affected by healthy aging than familiarity-based recognition. Recent evidence also implicated the hippocampus in the processing of concrete words. Based on these observations, we hypothesized age-related changes in recollection to affect concrete words more than abstract words. This prediction was tested in a cross-sectional design with three consecutive age groups (mean ages 21 years, 42 years, and 61 years). Changes in recollection, but not familiarity, across ages were significantly modulated by word concreteness. Recollection of concrete words showed a steady decline across age, while recollection of abstract words decreased only from young to middle age, leading to a reduced concreteness effect in the oldest group. These findings are consistent with the idea that changes in hippocampally mediated recollective processes during aging affect concrete words more than abstract words.
Attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) is characterized by poor attention to detail, poor attention maintenance, and variability throughout task performance. The authors used a quantitative trait loci approach to assess the association between the dopamine transporter (DAT1) high-risk genotype, cognitive performance (visual search and vigilance), and ADHD symptoms in a community sample of boys 6-11 years of age. The potential confounding effects of IQ and chronological age were also investigated. Results demonstrate that accuracy in target detection, not speed, distinguishes poor attenders from good attenders. The authors speculate that the measure of performance (e.g., time and false alarms) may be critical in detecting attentional weaknesses. In contrast, DAT1 gene, known to be associated with the behavioral symptoms of ADHD, was unrelated to visual search or vigilance performance, although it was related to ADHD symptoms.
Identifying cognitive deficits associated with pediatric brain tumors and their treatment is important in delineating the mechanisms of intellectual decline often associated with these diseases. The authors evaluated sustained attention, information processing speed, working memory, and IQ in 64 patients with posterior fossa tumors, including those treated with either: (a) surgery and cranial radiation (n = 32), and (b) surgery without radiation (n = 32). Ten patients treated for non-CNS solid tumors were included as a comparison group. The authors also examined the impact of relevant demographic and medical variables on neurocognitive outcome. The authors found that neither age at, nor time since, diagnosis predicted cognitive outcome in this sample. Further, sustained attention and working memory were largely intact and there were no differences between groups. Patients treated with cranial radiation demonstrated lowered short-form IQ and slow information processing speed: Patients treated with cranial radiation and who experienced postsurgical complications demonstrated the poorest performance. The authors consider information processing speed to be an excellent candidate mechanism in understanding the impact of cranial radiation on intellectual outcome.
In previous work, the authors found that an anatomical risk index created from the combination of 7 neuroanatomical measures predicted reading and oral language skills in individuals with learning disabilities. Individuals with small auditory brain structures and reduced asymmetry had more deficits than those with large structures and exaggerated asymmetry. In the present study, the same anatomical index predicted reading and other cognitive abilities in 45 individuals with chronic schizophrenia. The anatomical risk index was significantly associated with broad cognitive ability (Pearson r = .53, p &lt; .0001), reading comprehension (r = .58, p &lt; .0001), and a measure of nonverbal reasoning (r = .39, p &lt; .01), but not with age, parental socioeconomic status, symptom measures, alcohol use, or processing speed. These findings support the prediction that reduced size and asymmetry in temporal lobe auditory cortex and cerebellum may not be specific risk factors for schizophrenia but for cognitive deficits that characterize a broad spectrum of developmental disorders.
The cholinergic neurotransmitter system has been proposed to be involved in the processing of probabilistic top-down information provided by endogenous cues in location-cueing paradigms. It has been shown that the behavioral and neural effects of a nicotinic cholinergic stimulation resemble the effects obtained by manipulating the validity of the spatial cues: enhancing cortical nicotine levels and decreasing cue validity both reduce the reaction time difference between invalidly and validly cued targets (ie, the 'validity effect') as well as neural activity related to attentional reorienting in parietal brain regions. In the present study, we investigated whether the behavioral and neural effects of nicotine in location-cueing paradigms are dependent upon different a priori cue validities. Twenty-four subjects were investigated in a double-blind placebo-controlled between-subject design with functional magnetic resonance imaging. Nicotine was administered to non-smoking volunteers via polacrilex gums (Nicorette, 2 mg) before performing a location-cueing paradigm with valid and invalid cues in the context of 90 and 60% cue validity in the MR scanner. Nicotine significantly reduced the validity effect in the 90% but not in the 60% cue validity condition. Fronto-parietal and cingulate regions showed stronger nicotinic reductions of reorienting-related neural activity in the high than in the low cue validity condition. Our data reveal an interaction effect between the pharmacological and cognitive modulation of attentional reorienting, which is evident at both a behavioral as well as the neuronal level.
Initiation of smoking behavior typically occurs during adolescence and rarely occurs during adulthood. Despite this epidemiological evidence, relatively little is known about possible neurobiological differences in the response to nicotine in adolescents that might make them more vulnerable to nicotine addiction. In the current study, we assessed nicotine self-administration under fixed ratio (FR) and progressive ratio (PR) reinforcement schedules in adolescent (postnatal day (P) 33-35) and adult (P91-94) rats. We then assessed extinction and reinstatement of nicotine seeking in adulthood in rats that initiated nicotine self-administration during either adolescence or adulthood. Nicotine self-administration (0.03 mg/kg/infusion, i.v.) was higher in adult rats than in adolescent rats under FR5 and PR reinforcement schedules; no age differences in nicotine self-administration were observed under FR1 or FR2 reinforcement schedules. In contrast, saccharin self-administration under FR5 and PR reinforcement schedules was similar in both age groups, potentially ruling out age differences in general performance. Rats that initiated nicotine self-administration as adults demonstrated a greater resistance to extinction of nicotine taking behavior when saline was substituted for nicotine than rats that initiated self-administration as adolescents. Reinstatement of nicotine seeking following nicotine priming injections (0.075, 0.15, 0.3 mg/kg, s.c.) was independent of the age of onset of nicotine self-administration. The present data from established rat models of drug self-administration and drug relapse suggest that nicotine is less reinforcing in adolescent compared with adult rats and that processes other than the reinforcing effects of nicotine may be involved in the greater susceptibility to smoking during the adolescent developmental stage.
Early environmental events have profound influences on a wide range of adult behavior. In the current study, we assessed the influence of maternal stress during gestation on psychostimulant and neurochemical responsiveness to cocaine, cocaine self-administration, and reinstatement of cocaine-seeking in adult offspring. Pregnant, female Sprague-Dawley rats were subjected to either no treatment or to restraint stress three times per day for the last 7 days of gestation and cocaine-related behavior was assessed in offspring at 10 weeks of age. Relative to controls, a noncontingent cocaine injection elevated locomotor activity as well as nucleus accumbens levels of extracellular dopamine and glutamate to a greater extent in both cocaine-naive and cocaine-experienced prenatal stress (PNS) rats and elevated prefrontal cortex dopamine in cocaine-experienced PNS rats. To assess the impact of PNS on cocaine addiction-related behavior, rats were trained to lever press for intravenous (i.v.) infusions of cocaine (0.25, 0.5, or 1 mg/kg/infusion), with each infusion paired with a light+tone-conditioned stimulus. Lever-pressing was extinguished and cocaine-seeking reinstated by re-exposure to the conditioned cues or by intraperitoneal cocaine-priming injections (5 or 10 mg/kg). PNS elevated active lever responding both during extinction and cocaine-primed reinstatement, but not during self-administration or conditioned-cued reinstatement. PNS also did not alter intake during self-administration. These findings demonstrate that PNS produces enduring nervous system alterations that increase the psychomotor stimulant, motivational, and neurochemical responsiveness to noncontingent cocaine. Thus, early environmental factors contribute to an individual's initial responsiveness to cocaine and propensity to relapse to cocaine-seeking.

Recently, we reported a profound depletion of cardiac sympathetic nerve fibers in Parkinson's disease (PD). This cardiac sympathetic denervation is a characteristic hallmark of PD. Cardiac sympathetic dysfunction was also observed in 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydroxypyridine (MPTP)-treated mice, a model of PD. Although binding assay showed a decreased density of norepinephrine transporter (NET) in the hearts of the mice, their histopathological alterations have not been demonstrated. In this study, we investigated hearts of MPTP-treated mice with immunohistochemical method and Western blot analyses. MPTP-treated mice showed significant decreases in the contents of cardiac noradrenaline and dopamine, suggesting the sympathetic dysfunction. Synaptophysin-, tyrosine hydroxylase- or NET-immunoreactive nerve fibers were abundant in the hearts of control mice and MPTP-treated mice, without apparent differences between the two groups. Western blot analyses also showed no difference in the amounts of these proteins. Myocardial nerve fibers were well preserved in MPTP-treated mice, despite apparent cardiac sympathetic dysfunction.
Bone marrow stromal cells (BMSC) can acquire morphological and immunohistochemical features of neural cells when they are treated with diverse chemical agents, a finding interpreted as result of cell transdifferentiation. With the purpose of a better knowledge of the possible utility of BMSC for strategies of Nervous System (NS) repair, we have studied the morphological and immunohistochemical changes induced in BMSC by chemical agents, in comparison with those that happen when BMSC are co-cultured with Schwann cells. While chemical BMSC transdifferentiation is a short-time reversible phenomenon, BMSC transdifferentiation obtained by Schwann cell-derived neurotrophic factors remains stable after it has been reached. These findings question the possible clinical utility of BMSC trandifferentiation using chemical agents, and support that neural transdifferentiation of BMSC is a biological phenomenon that can be obtained in vivo because of the presence of environmental factors.
COSTANZO VAROLIO (CONSTANTIUS Varolius) (1543-1575) was born in Bologna and died in Rome. This professor of anatomy and papal physician was the first to examine the brain from its base up, in contrast with previous dissections of this organ performed from the top down. Varolio was the first to describe many structures, including the pons, which is still known today as the pons Varolli. Varolio was a pupil to the well-known anatomist Aranzio, who was in turn a pupil of Vesalius. Our current understanding of the nervous system is based on the early anatomic descriptions and depictions by such individuals as Varolio.


In mammals, the expression of 5-10% of genes occurs with circadian fluctuation in various organs and tissues. This cyclic transcription is thought to be directly or indirectly regulated through circadian transcriptional/translational feedback loops consisting of a set of clock genes. Among the clock genes in mammals, expression of the Dbp mRNA robustly oscillates both in vivo and in culture cells. Here, we present circadian enhancer detection strategy using prokaryotic transposon system. The mDbp promoter drives reporter gene expression in robust circadian cycles in rat-1 fibroblasts. To identify the circadian enhancer generating this robust rhythm, we developed a prokaryotic transposon-based enhancer detecting vector for in vitro transposition. Using this system, we identified a strong circadian enhancer region containing the CATGTG sequence in the 5' flanking region of the mDbp gene; this enhancer region is critical for the ability of the mDbp promoter to drive robust oscillation in living cells. This enhancer is classified as a CANNTG type non-canonical E-box. These findings strongly suggest that CANNTG-type non-canonical E-boxes may contribute, at least in part, to the regulation of robust circadian gene expression. Furthermore, these data may help explain the wider effects of the CLOCK/BMAL1 complex in control of clock output genes.
Meta-predictors make predictions by organizing and processing the predictions produced by several other predictors in a defined problem domain. A proficient meta-predictor not only offers better predicting performance than the individual predictors from which it is constructed, but it also relieves experimentally researchers from making difficult judgments when faced with conflicting results made by multiple prediction programs. As increasing numbers of predicting programs are being developed in a large number of fields of life sciences, there is an urgent need for effective meta-prediction strategies to be investigated. We compiled four unbiased phosphorylation site datasets, each for one of the four major serine/threonine (S/T) protein kinase families-CDK, CK2, PKA and PKC. Using these datasets, we examined several meta-predicting strategies with 15 phosphorylation site predictors from six predicting programs: GPS, KinasePhos, NetPhosK, PPSP, PredPhospho and Scansite. Meta-predictors constructed with a generalized weighted voting meta-predicting strategy with parameters determined by restricted grid search possess the best performance, exceeding that of all individual predictors in predicting phosphorylation sites of all four kinase families. Our results demonstrate a useful decision-making tool for analysing the predictions of the various S/T phosphorylation site predictors. An implementation of these meta-predictors is available on the web at: http://MetaPred.umn.edu/MetaPredPS/.

