Although almost all GFAP(+) cells in primary astrocyte cultures show functional beta-adrenergic (beta-AR) and metabotropic purinergic (P2Y) receptors, the fewer studies on astrocytes in situ have shown that a much smaller proportion express these same receptor-mediated activities. Here we show, by multiplex single cell RT-PCR, that 44% of freshly isolated, GFAP(+) astrocytes (FIAs) from the CA1 of P8-12 rat hippocampus always co-express beta-adrenergic receptor mRNA subtypes with metabotropic ATP receptor mRNA subtypes (P2Y1, P2Y2 or P2Y4). We also found that beta2 mRNA was the dominant beta-AR subtype expressed. P2Y1 mRNA always co-expresses with either one or two subtypes of P2U-like receptor (P2Y2 or P2Y4) mRNAs. Immunocytochemical studies showed a similar percentage of all FIAs expressed beta-AR and P2Y1 protein (54% and 52%, respectively), as for the mRNAs (46% and 65%, respectively). The staining of hippocampal sections for beta-AR or P2Y1 receptor plus GFAP shows that there are quite numerous, scattered star-shaped GFAP(+) astrocytes in the CA1 region of P9-10 rat hippocampus that stained positive for either of these receptors. These data show that astrocytes in situ express, and to a large extent likely co-express, beta-AR and P2Y receptors.
Early neocortical injury has been associated with rate-specific auditory processing deficits using rodent models. In the few cases where females were studied, they appeared less vulnerable than males to the behavioral consequences of early neocortical injury. In the current study, male rats with neocortical microgyria were found to exhibit significant impairments in detecting tone sequences at short but not long inter-stimulus intervals (ISI) as compared to sham-operated male littermates. Microgyric females, however, performed similarly to sham-operated female littermates on this task at all durations. Current findings support an association between focal cortical malformations and impaired rapid auditory processing in males, and less vulnerability in females to the behavioral consequences of these malformations on a task eliminating confounds of motivation, experience, and estrus.
We have explored the role of fibroblast growth factor (Fgf) signaling in regulating gene expression in the early zebrafish hindbrain primordium. We demonstrate that a dominant negative Fgf receptor (FgfR) construct disrupts gene expression along the entire rostrocaudal axis of the hindbrain primordium and, using an FgfR antagonist, we find that this Fgf signal is required at early gastrula stages. This effect cannot be mimicked by morpholino antisense oligos to Fgf3, Fgf8 or Fgf24--three Fgf family members known to be secreted from signaling centers at the midbrain-hindbrain boundary (MHB), in rhombomere 4 and in caudal mesoderm at gastrula stages. We propose that an Fgf signal is required in the early gastrula to initiate hindbrain gene expression and that this is distinct from the later roles of Fgfs in patterning the hindbrain during late gastrula/early segmentation stages. We also find that blocking either retinoic acid (RA) or Fgf signaling disrupts hindbrain gene expression at gastrula stages, suggesting that both pathways are essential at this stage. However, both pathways must be blocked simultaneously to disrupt hindbrain gene expression at segmentation stages, indicating that these signaling pathways become redundant at later stages. Furthermore, exogenous application of RA or Fgf alone is sufficient to induce hindbrain genes in gastrula stage tissues, suggesting that the two-signal requirement can be overcome under some conditions. Our results demonstrate an early role for Fgf signaling and reveal a dynamic relationship between the RA and Fgf signaling pathways during hindbrain development.
Williams syndrome (WS) is a rare genetic disorder involving a characteristic cardiac defect, typical facial appearance, and an uneven profile of cognitive strengths and weaknesses. WS is caused by a hemizygous deletion in chromosome band 7q11.23, including the gene for elastin (ELN). Typically, individuals with WS seem driven to greet and interact with strangers. The goal of the present study was to investigate age-related changes in the expression of hypersociability in WS. Parents of 64 children with WS, 31 children with Down syndrome (DS), and 27 normal controls (NC) provided data concerning specific aspects of their children's social behavior using the Salk Institute Sociability Questionnaire (SISQ). Children ranged in age from 1 year, 1 month to 12 years, 10 months. Consistent with earlier findings, whole group analyses showed the WS group to be significantly higher on all aspects of sociability studied. Comparisons among the groups at different ages revealed that hypersociability is evident even among very young children with WS, and, significantly, children with WS exceed children with DS with respect to Global Sociability and Approach Strangers in every age group. The findings from children who have the typical deletion for WS are contrasted with data obtained from a young child with WS who has a smaller deletion and many physical features of WS, but who does not demonstrate hypersociability, providing intriguing clues to a genetic basis of social behavior in this syndrome. These data suggest the involvement of a genetic predisposition in the expression of hypersociability in WS.
Spinal muscular atrophy (SMA) is a neurodegenerative disorder resulting from homozygous loss of the SMN1 gene. To investigate SMN functions, we undertook the yeast two-hybrid screens and identified Drosophila Rpp20, a subunit of the RNase P and RNase MRP holoenzymes, to interact with the Drosophila SMN protein. Interaction between human SMN and Rpp20 was validated by in vitro binding assays and co-immunoprecipitation. The exons 3-4 of SMN are necessary and sufficient for binding to Rpp20. Binding efficiency between Rpp20 and SMNs with mutations in the Y-G domain is abrogated or reduced and correlated with severity of SMA disease. Immunofluorescence results indicate that Rpp20 is diffusely distributed throughout the cytoplasm with higher concentration observed in the nucleus. However, in response to stress, SMN forms aggregates and redistributes Rpp20 into punctuated cytoplasmic SMN granules. Our findings suggest a possible functional association of SMN with RNase P and RNase MRP complexes.
Rodent models of focal cerebral ischaemia are critical for understanding pathophysiological concepts in human stroke. The availability of genetically modified mice has prompted the adaptation of the intraluminal filament occlusion model of focal ischaemia for use in mice. In the present study, we investigated the effects of increasing duration of intraluminal occlusion on the extent and distribution of ischaemic pathology and local cerebral blood flow (LCBF) in C57Bl/6J mice, the most common background mouse strain. Volumetric assessment of ischaemic damage was performed after 15, 30 or 60 min occlusion followed by 24 h reperfusion. LCBF was measured after 15 and 60 min occlusion using quantitative 14C-iodoantipyrine autoradiography. The extent and distribution of ischaemic damage was highly sensitive to increasing occlusion duration. Recruitment of tissue outside MCA territory produced a steep increase in the volume of damage with increasing occlusion duration: 15 min (9+/-2 mm3); 30 min (56+/-6 mm3); 60 min (69+/-2 mm3). Significant increases in the severity of cerebral hypoperfusion were observed after 60 min compared to 15 min occlusion within and outside MCA territory, e.g. caudate nucleus (9+/-6 ml per 100 g per min at 60 min vs. 33 ml per 100 g per min at 15 min) and hippocampus (16+/-14 ml per 100 g per min at 60 min vs. 61+/-16 ml per 100 g per min at 15 min). MABP remained stable for 25 min after occlusion onset and declined thereafter. The integrity of the circle of Willis was examined by carbon black perfusion of the vasculature. A complete circle of Willis was present in only one of 10 mice. These results demonstrate that intraluminal filament occlusion in C57Bl/6J mice leads to an occlusion duration-dependent increase in severity of cerebral hypoperfusion and extension of ischaemic pathology beyond MCA territory.
C75, a synthetic inhibitor of fatty acid synthase (FAS), is hypothesized to alter the metabolism of neurons in the hypothalamus that regulate feeding behavior to contribute to the decreased food intake and profound weight loss seen with C75 treatment. In the present study, we characterize the suitability of primary cultures of cortical neurons for studies designed to investigate the consequences of C75 treatment and the alteration of fatty acid metabolism in neurons. We demonstrate that in primary cortical neurons, C75 inhibits FAS activity and stimulates carnitine palmitoyltransferase-1 (CPT-1), consistent with its effects in peripheral tissues. C75 alters neuronal ATP levels and AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK) activity. Neuronal ATP levels are affected in a biphasic manner with C75 treatment, decreasing initially, followed by a prolonged increase above control levels. Cerulenin, a FAS inhibitor, causes a similar biphasic change in ATP levels, although levels do not exceed control. C75 and cerulenin modulate AMPK phosphorylation and activity. TOFA, an inhibitor of acetyl-CoA carboxylase, increases ATP levels, but does not affect AMPK activity. Several downstream pathways are affected by C75 treatment, including glucose metabolism and acetyl-CoA carboxylase (ACC) phosphorylation. These data demonstrate that C75 modulates the levels of energy intermediates, thus, affecting the energy sensor AMPK. Similar effects in hypothalamic neurons could form the basis for the effects of C75 on feeding behavior.
We describe a novel brain slice system 'SliceMaster' that allows electrophysiological recordings from eight brain slices independently. The system consists of two autonomous units each supporting four modular brain slice chambers enabling high signal-to-noise ratio recordings, each chamber has one stimulation electrode, one recording electrode, a twin camera system and a solution application system. The positioning of both electrodes and cameras are controlled from a remote user console. The software both acquires and performs on-line analysis of the data. We have demonstrated utility of this system in obtaining recordings of spontaneous firing activity and evoked synaptic activity from mouse hippocampal slices, with reduced variability within and between experiments. Furthermore, we show recordings of population spikes from the perirhinal cortex, indicating applicability of this system for further brain regions. In addition, stable recordings could be maintained until recording was terminated after 3 h, permitting investigation of the induction and maintenance of synaptic plasticity. Recordings of spontaneous and synaptic activity, and effects of pharmacological and electrophysiological manipulation, were consistent with reports using conventional methods. However, the described system permits concurrent and independent recordings from eight brain slices, thus improving throughput, statistical design, and reducing animal use.
A new apparatus has been developed that integrates an animal restrainer arrangement for small animals with an actively tunable/detunable dual radio-frequency (RF) coil system for in vivo anatomical and functional magnetic resonance imaging of small animals at 4.7 T. The radio-frequency coil features an eight-element microstrip line configuration that, in conjunction with a segmented outer copper shield, forms a transversal electromagnetic (TEM) resonator structure. Matching and active tuning/detuning is achieved through fixed/variable capacitors and a PIN diode for each resonator element. These components along with radio-frequency chokes (RFCs) and blocking capacitors are placed on two printed circuit boards (PCBs) whose copper coated ground planes form the front and back of the volume coil and are therefore an integral part of the resonator structure. The magnetic resonance signal response is received with a dome-shaped single-loop surface coil that can be height-adjustable with respect to the animal's head. The conscious animal is immobilized through a mechanical arrangement that consists of a Plexiglas body tube and a head restrainer. This restrainer has a cylindrical holder with a mouthpiece and position screws to receive and restrain the head of the animal. The apparatus is intended to perform anatomical and functional magnetic resonance imaging in conscious animals such as mice, rats, hamsters, and marmosets. Cranial images acquired from fully conscious rats in a 4.7 T Bruker 40 cm bore animal scanner underscore the feasibility of this approach and bode well to extend this system to the imaging of other animals.
We present a real-time simulation system that enables modeled dynamical systems to interact with physical experimental systems, and is specifically aimed towards execution of the dynamic clamp protocol. Model reference current injection (MRCI) operates under Real-Time Linux (RT-Linux or RTL) and provides a simple equation-oriented language for describing dynamical system models. Features include scripting of commands to implement repeatable protocols, the ability to output pre-computed waveforms through any variable or parameter of the model, the means to conduct time measurements and assess the computational performance of the real-time system, and an installation program that installs the software and accompanying device drivers with minimal input from the user. Tested models operate as fast as 30 kHz, with actual maximum rates dependent on model complexity. We present sample models that exhibit the main features of the modeling language. Experiments demonstrate the abilities of the system by creating a hybrid network of real and simulated neurons, and playing a pre-defined synaptic waveform into a synaptic conductance variable. We conclude by introducing a waveform reconstruction technique that is useful for establishing the presence of significant experimental error in implementations of the dynamic clamp protocol.
Synaptic vesicle fusion events are essential for synaptic transmission. Membrane docking and fusion events are highly regulated processes requiring the participation of a large number of soluble N-ethylmaleimide-sensitive factors (SNAREs) and SNARE-interacting proteins. We report the neuronal expression of mammalian homologue of vacuolar protein sorting 16 (mVps16p) which exhibits a high homology to the yeast Vps16p, a component of Class C Vps. Western blot and immunohistochemical analyzes revealed that mVps16p is highly expressed in the various brain areas and developmental stages tested. The immunoreactivities of mVps16p colocalized with microtubule associated protein 2, but not glial fibrillary acidic protein. In the primary culture of cortical neurons, mVps16p immunoreactivities were observed in the cell body and the neuronal processes, and highly enriched in the axonal outgrowths.
To understand the morphological substrate of the nicotine effect on nigral FGF-2 expression, a stereological analysis of FGF-2 immunoreactive neuronal and glial profiles has been performed in the substantia nigra of the rat after acute intermittent nicotine treatment. The major finding of this paper is the demonstration that this type of nicotine treatment produces a significant reduction in the total number of nuclear FGF-2 immunoreactive astroglial profiles in the substantia nigra. A parallel analysis of nigral FGF-1 and FGF-5 immunoreactivities showed no effect of this type of nicotine treatment. The results may be explained by an inhibition of FGF-2 synthesis in a subpopulation of nigral astroglia by nicotinic receptor activation, favouring a reduction of astroglial neurotrophism in the substantia nigra.
Among the many diseases that affect the hippocampus, a small yet highly important brain region responsible for memory and identity, Alzheimer's disease and schizophrenia are among the most devastating. We describe a two-stage, region-of-interest based linear mixed model approach to the analysis of a longitudinal functional magnetic resonance (FMRI) study of human memory function under several drug challenges. We then describe a Monte Carlo approach to testing members of nested hierarchies of linear models in a stereological study of different types and locations of human hippocampal neurons. Last, we attempt to draw the attention of the biostatistical community interested in imaging neuroscience to the intriguing complexities of human hippocampal research in early Alzheimer's disease, schizophrenia and other brain diseases via brain imaging methods.
It has often been proposed that the vocal calls of monkeys are precursors of human speech, in part because they provide critical information to other members of the species who rely on them for survival and social interactions. Both behavioural and lesion studies suggest that monkeys, like humans, use the auditory system of the left hemisphere preferentially to process vocalizations. To investigate the pattern of neural activity that might underlie this particular form of functional asymmetry in monkeys, we measured local cerebral metabolic activity while the animals listened passively to species-specific calls compared with a variety of other classes of sound. Within the superior temporal gyrus, significantly greater metabolic activity occurred on the left side than on the right, only in the region of the temporal pole and only in response to monkey calls. This functional asymmetry was absent when these regions were separated by forebrain commissurotomy, suggesting that the perception of vocalizations elicits concurrent interhemispheric interactions that focus the auditory processing within a specialized area of one hemisphere.
Nonlinear microscopy has proven to be essential for neuroscience investigations of thick tissue preparations. However, the optical recording of fast (approximately 1 msec) cellular electrical activity has never until now been successfully combined with this imaging modality. Through the use of second-harmonic generation microscopy of primary Aplysia neurons in culture labeled with 4-[4-(dihexylamino)phenyl][ethynyl]-1-(4-sulfobutyl)pyridinium (inner salt), we optically recorded action potentials with 0.833 msec temporal and 0.6 microm spatial resolution on soma and neurite membranes. Second-harmonic generation response as a function of change in membrane potential was found to be linear with a signal change of approximately 6%/100 mV. The signal-to-noise ratio was approximately 1 for single-trace action potential recordings but was readily increased to approximately 6-7 with temporal averaging of approximately 50 scans. Photodamage was determined to be negligible by observing action potential characteristics, cellular resting potential, and gross cellular morphology during and after laser illumination. High-resolution (micrometer scale) optical recording of membrane potential activity by previous techniques has been limited to imaging depths an order of magnitude less than nonlinear methods. Because second-harmonic generation is capable of imaging up to approximately 400 microm deep into intact tissue with submicron resolution and little out-of-focus photodamage or bleaching, its ability to record fast electrical activity should prove valuable to future electrophysiology studies.
A local increase in amyloid-beta peptide (Abeta) is closely associated with synaptic dysfunction in the brain in Alzheimer's disease. Here, we report on the catabolic mechanism of Abeta at the presynaptic sites. Neprilysin, an Abeta-degrading enzyme, expressed by recombinant adeno-associated viral vector-mediated gene transfer, was axonally transported to presynaptic sites through afferent projections of neuronal circuits. This gene transfer abolished the increase in Abeta levels in the hippocampal formations of neprilysin-deficient mice and also reduced the increase in young mutant amyloid precursor protein transgenic mice. In the latter case, Abeta levels in the hippocampal formation contralateral to the vector-injected side were also significantly reduced as a result of transport of neprilysin from the ipsilateral side, and in both sides soluble Abeta was degraded more efficiently than insoluble Abeta. Furthermore, amyloid deposition in aged mutant amyloid precursor protein transgenic mice was remarkably decelerated. Thus, presynaptic neprilysin has been demonstrated to degrade Abeta efficiently and to retard development of amyloid pathology.
Gap junctions are intercellular channels that allow the passage of ions and small molecules between cells. In the nervous system, gap junctions mediate electrical coupling between neurons. Despite sharing a common topology and similar physiology, two unrelated gap junction protein families exist in the animal kingdom. Vertebrate gap junctions are formed by members of the connexin family, whereas invertebrate gap junctions are composed of innexin proteins. Here we report the cloning of two innexins from the leech Hirudo medicinalis. These innexins show a differential expression in the leech CNS: Hm-inx1 is expressed by every neuron in the CNS but not in glia, whereas Hm-inx2 is expressed in glia but not neurons. Heterologous expression in the paired Xenopus oocyte system demonstrated that both innexins are able to form functional homotypic gap junctions. Hm-inx1 forms channels that are not strongly gated. In contrast, Hm-inx2 forms channels that are highly voltage-dependent; these channels demonstrate properties resembling those of a double rectifier. In addition, Hm-inx1 and Hm-inx2 are able to cooperate to form heterotypic gap junctions in Xenopus oocytes. The behavior of these channels is primarily that predicted from the properties of the constituent hemichannels but also demonstrates evidence of an interaction between the two. This work represents the first demonstration of a functional gap junction protein from a Lophotrochozoan animal and supports the hypothesis that connexin-based communication is restricted to the deuterostome clade.
Up-states represent a key feature of synaptic integration in cortex and striatum that involves activation of many synaptic inputs. In the striatum, the sparse firing and tight control of action potential timing is in contrast to the large intracellular membrane potential depolarizations observed during the up-state. One hallmark of striatal spiny projection neurons is the delay to action potential generation in both up-states and suprathreshold depolarization by somatic current injection. By studying somatic and dendritic intracellular calcium ([Ca2+]i) transients during spontaneous up-states in cortex-striatum-substantia nigra organotypic cultures, we show that the delay between up-state onset and action potential generation determines dendritic peak [Ca2+]i. Peak [Ca2+]i from single action potentials reached maximum values when action potentials were close to up-state onset and sharply decayed to near subthreshold up-state [Ca2+] levels as a function of time (tau = 47 +/- 26 msec for tertiary dendrite). Similarly, a precisely timed action potential elicited during subthreshold up-states through somatic current injection established that the delay between up-state onset and action potential generation is the critical variable that controls peak [Ca2+]i. Blocking NMDA channels internally with high intracellular Mg2+ ([Mg2+]i) (10 mm) abolished the dependency of peak [Ca2+]i on action potential timing during spontaneous up-states. Finally, high [Mg2+]i specifically blocked [Ca2+]i transients that resulted from local NMDA application in conjunction with backpropagating action potentials. We conclude that precisely timed, single action potentials during striatal up-states control peak dendritic calcium levels. We suggest that this mechanism might play an important role in synaptic plasticity of the corticostriatal pathway.
Longitudinally restricted axonal projections of hippocampal granule cells suggest that transverse segments of the granule cell layer may operate independently (the &quot;lamellar&quot; hypothesis). Longitudinal projections of excitatory hilar mossy cells could be viewed as antithetical to lamellar function, but only if longitudinal impulse flow effectively excites distant granule cells. We, therefore, determined the effect of focal granule cell discharges on granule cells located &gt;2 mm along the longitudinal axis. During perforant pathway stimulation in urethane-anesthetized rats, passive diffusion of the GABA(A) receptor antagonist bicuculline methiodide from the tip of a glass recording electrode evoked granule cell discharges and c-Fos expression in granule cells, mossy cells, and inhibitory interneurons, within a approximately 400 microm radius. This focally evoked activity powerfully suppressed distant granule cell-evoked responses recorded simultaneously approximately 2.5-4.5 mm longitudinally. Three days after kainic acid-induced status epilepticus or prolonged perforant pathway stimulation, translamellar inhibition was intact in rats with &lt;40% hilar neuron loss but was consistently abolished after extensive (&gt;85%) hilar cell loss. Retrograde transport of Fluoro-Gold (FG) from the rostral dentate gyrus revealed that few inhibitory interneurons were among the many retrogradely labeled hilar neurons 2.5-4.5 mm longitudinally. Although many somatostatin-positive hilar interneurons effectively transported FG from the distant septum, few of these neurons transported detectable FG from much closer hippocampal injection sites. Inhibitory basket and chandelier cells also exhibited minimal longitudinal FG transport. These findings suggest that translamellar disinhibition may result from the loss of vulnerable, longitudinally projecting mossy cells and may represent a network-level mechanism underlying postinjury hippocampal dysfunction and epileptic network hyperexcitability.
Disruption of cAMP response element (CRE)-dependent transcription has been hypothesized to contribute to neuronal death and dysfunction in Huntington's disease (HD) and other polyglutamine repeat disorders. Whether dysregulation of CRE-dependent transcription actually occurs in vivo in response to expression of expanded polyglutamine repeats has not been tested. We directly tested whether CRE-dependent transcription is affected in vivo by cross breeding a transgenic mouse model of HD (line R6/2) with a transgenic mouse that expresses a CRE-regulated reporter gene. Instead of compromised CRE-dependent transcription in HD mice, we found a robust upregulation of CRE-dependent transcription in several brain regions (striatum, hippocampus, cortex). CRE-mediated transcription was also evoked by striatal forskolin infusion and by photic stimulation in HD animals. Increased cAMP response element-binding protein (CREB) phosphorylation and elevated levels of the CREB-regulated gene product, CCAAT/enhancer binding protein beta, were also found in HD mice. Significant alterations in CREB binding protein expression and localization were not observed in symptomatic R6/2 mice. Thus, rather than repressing CRE-mediated transcription, mutant huntingtin appears to facilitate transcription via a CRE-dependent mechanism in vivo.

The hyperpolarization-activated cation channels (I(h)) play a distinct role in rhythmic activities in a variety of tissues, including neurons and cardiac cells. In the present study, we investigated whether Ca(2+) can permeate through the hyperpolarization-activated pacemaker channels (HCN) expressed in HEK293 cells and I(h) channels in dorsal root ganglion (DRG) neurons. Using combined measurements of whole-cell currents and fura-2 Ca(2+) imaging, we found that there is a Ca(2+) influx in proportion to I(h) induced by hyperpolarization in HEK293 cells. The I(h) channel blockers Cs(+) and ZD7288 inhibit both HCN current and Ca(2+) influx. Measurements of the fractional Ca(2+) current showed that it constitutes 0.60 +/- 0.02% of the net inward current through HCN4 at -120 mV. This fractional current is similar to that of the low Ca(2+)-permeable AMPA-R (alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionic acid receptor) channels in Purkinje neurons. In DRG neurons, activation of I(h) for 30 s also resulted in a Ca(2+) influx and an elevated action potential-induced secretion, as assayed by the increase in membrane capacitance. These results suggest a functional significance for I(h) channels in modulating neuronal secretion by permitting Ca(2+) influx at negative membrane potentials.
TIMP-1, an approximately 30 kDa glycosylated protein found predominantly in extracellular compartments, is involved in the regulation of a variety of developmental, remodelling, and pathological processes. One function of TIMP-1 is to inhibit certain members of a group of extracellular and cell surface enzymes known collectively as metalloproteinases (MP). These include the matrix metalloproteinases and the adamalysin-like disintegrin and metalloproteinases (ADAMs). Additional activities of TIMP-1 include potentiating the activity of erythroid precursors and stimulating proliferation of certain cancer cell lines. Published evidence suggests that the apparent proliferative action of TIMP-1 is independent of its MP-inhibitory activity; however, reports of a cell surface receptor for TIMP-1 have not been confirmed. We have utilised a baculovirus-based system to produce TIMP-1. Data presented here show that TIMP-1 and synthetic hydroxamate (GM6001) MP inhibitors stimulate proliferation and metabolic activity of MDA-MB-435 cancer cells with similar kinetics. An inactive hydroxamate derivative was ineffective. The TIMP-1-induced increase in proliferation and metabolic activity was not the consequence of the inhibition of apoptosis by TIMP-1 in the serum-free medium. These data taken together imply that the mechanism by which TIMP-1 enhances cell growth depends on its ability to inhibit a metalloproteinase, rather than to stimulate a cell surface receptor by a process independent of its MP-inhibitory activity. Inhibitors of extracellular regulated kinase (U0126) and p38 (SB203580), and to a lesser extent the phosphatidylinositol-3-kinase inhibitor LY294002, suppressed the action of TIMP-1. Assays for ERK1/2 and p38 showed that both were activated by TIMP-1 and GM6001. Mechanisms by which TIMP-1 might act to stimulate cell proliferation are described.
Some behavioral and biochemical effects of the systemically administered adenosine A(2A) receptor agonist 2-p-(2-carboxyethyl)phenethylamino-5'-N-ethylcarboxamidoadenosine (CGS 21680) in rats are potentiated by adenosine A(1) receptor agonists and counteracted by dopamine D2 receptor agonists. In the present study we compared potentiating and antagonistic interactions between CGS 21680 and adenosine A(1) and dopamine D2 receptor agonists on motor activity and on cardiovascular responses (arterial blood pressure and heart rate). The motor-depressant effects produced by CGS 21680 (0.5 mg/kg, i.p.) were potentiated by the adenosine A(1) receptor agonist N(6)-cyclopentyladenosine (CPA, 0.3 mg/kg, i.p.) and counteracted by the dopamine D2 receptor agonist quinpirole (0.5 mg/kg, i.p.). In contrast, neither CPA nor quinpirole significantly modified the decrease in arterial pressure or the increase in heart rate induced by CGS 21680. However, the adenosine A(2A) receptor antagonist 3-(3-hydroxypropyl)-8-(m-methoxystyryl)-7-methyl-1-propargylxanthine phosphate disodium salt (MSX-3, 3 mg/kg, i.p.) counteracted both the motor-depressant and cardiovascular effects of CGS 21680. Therefore, the effects of the systemically administered adenosine A(2A) receptor agonist CGS 21680 on cardiovascular function, in contrast to its effects on motor behavior, appear to be independent of the effects of adenosine A(1) and dopamine D2 receptor activity.
Stroking the mucosal lining of the guinea pig colon with a brush elicits an intestinal neural reflex, and an increase in short-circuit current (Isc) indicative of chloride secretion. We tested whether endogenous and exogenous nucleotides are physiologic regulators of mucosal reflexes that modulate chloride secretion. The basal Isc was augmented by 6-N,N-diethyl-beta,gamma-dibromomethylene-D-adenosine-5'-triphosphate (ARL67156) inhibition of nucleotide breakdown or adenosine A1 receptor blockade and reduced by apyrase inactivation of nucleotidases, P2 receptor antagonists, tetrodotoxin (TTX), or piroxicam. ARL67156 augmented, and apyrase inhibited, stroking-evoked Isc responses. TTX and atropine inhibited nucleotide-evoked Isc responses. The agonist potency profile for Isc, 2-methylthioadenosine-diphosphate (2MeSADP) = 2-methioadenosine-triphosphate &gt; 5'adenosine-triphosphate (ATP) &gt; or = 5'adenosine-diphosphate &gt; 5'uridine-triphosphate &gt; or = 5'uridine-diphosphate, supports a P2Y1 receptor (R). The P2 receptor antagonists suramin and pyridoxalphosphate-6-azophenyl-2'4'-disulfonic acid, reduced stroking responses (36%) and their effects were additive. The selective P2Y1 R antagonist, 2'deoxy-N6-methyl adenosine 3',5'-diphosphate diammonium salt, reduced stroking (54%) and 2MeSADP (70%) responses at P2Y1 Rs. The P2X1/3 R agonist, alpha,betaMeATP, increased Isc. A desensitizing dose of alpha,betaMeATP reduced stroking Isc responses but did not prevent the 2MeSADP-evoked Isc response. Reverse transcriptase polymerase chain reaction analysis revealed mRNAs for P2Y1 R, P2Y2 R, P2Y4 R, P2Y6 R, and P2Y12 R in submucosa. The expression of P2Y R immunoreactivity (ir) in cell bodies of submucous neurons followed the order of P2Y1 = P2Y2 &gt; P2Y4 R ir; P2Y1 Rs and P2Y2 R ir were abundant (21-50% of neurons). P2Y1 R ir was abundant in cholinergic secretomotor neurons and fewer than 2% of neuropeptide Y (NPY)/choline acetyltransferase secretomotor neurons, and P2Y2 R ir was expressed in virtually all NPY secretomotor neurons and approximately 30% of calbindin/intrinsic primary afferent neurons. P2Y4 R ir was present in NPY-positive neurons. P2Y ir was rare or absent in varicose nerve fibers. The functional data support the hypothesis that mechanical stimulation with a brush releases nucleotides that act predominantly at P2Y1 Rs and to a lesser extent on P2X1/3 Rs to mediate reflex chloride secretion. A separate P2Y2 R neural circuit pathway exists that is not activated by mechanical forces. Other receptors including P2Y4, P2Y6, P2Y12, or P4 Rs cannot be excluded.
The mature peripheral nervous system has the ability to survive and to regenerate its axons following axonal injury. After nerve injury, the distal axonal and myelin segment undergoes dissolution and absorption by the surrounding cellular environment, a process called Wallerian degeneration. Using cDNA microarrays, we isolated FLRT3 as one of the up-regulated genes expressed in the distal segment of the sciatic nerve 7 days after transection relative to those of the intact sciatic nerve. FLRT3 is a putative type I transmembrane protein containing 10 leucine-rich repeats, a fibronectin type III domain, and an intracellular tail. The neurons plated on CHO cells expressing FLRT3 extended significantly longer neurites than those plated on wild-type CHO cells, demonstrating that FLRT3 promotes neurite outgrowth. FLRT3 mRNA was especially abundant in the basal ganglia, the granular layer of cerebellum, and the hippocampus, except the CA1 region in the adult rat brain. Thus, FLRT3 may contribute to regeneration following axonal injury.
The quest to identify mammalian odorant receptors was a triumph of molecular biology. The characterization of these molecules has provided extraordinary insight into the strategy used by one neuronal system to organize sensory structures and code complex information. The odorant receptor genes have also served as powerful tools in understanding genomic organization and gene regulation.
Dopamine is an important neurotransmitter regulating light-dark adaptation in the retina. The effect of dopamine is widespread and dependent on the localization of its receptors. We performed single cell RT-PCR on A-type horizontal cells visually selected from dissociated rabbit retinal neurons. Dopamine D1-receptor mRNA was positively identified. Subsequent sequencing of the fragment showed 82% homology with rat D1 receptor and 87% homology with human D1 receptor. This study supported previous observations that dopamine regulated A-type horizontal cell coupling via D1 receptors at the level of transcription.
The suprachiasmatic nuclei (SCN) of the hypothalamus are the site of the main circadian clock in mammals. Synchronization of the SCN to light is achieved by direct retinal inputs. The present study performed in rats transferred to constant darkness shows that blood glucose, pH and PCO2 display significant diurnal changes when measurements were made during the subjective day, the early subjective night or the late subjective night. The effects of a 30-min light exposure (100 lx) on these metabolic parameters at each of these circadian times were assessed. Regardless of the circadian time, light induced an increase in blood glucose, but did not affect plasma pH and PCO2. This study suggests that blood glucose, PCO2 and acid-base state are under circadian control, most likely mediated by the SCN, while the hyperglycemic response to light seems not to be gated by a circadian clock and may thus involve retinal inputs to non-SCN retino-recipient areas.
In an attempt to understand mechanisms underlying peripheral sensitization of primary afferent fibers, we investigated the presence of the tetrodotoxin-resistant Na+ channel subunits Nav1.8 (SNS) and Nav1.9 (SNS2) on axons in digital nerves of normal and inflamed rat hindpaws. In normal animals, 14.3% of the unmyelinated and 10.7% of the myelinated axons labeled for the Nav1.8 subunit. These percentages significantly increased in 48 h inflamed animals to 22.0% (1.5-fold increase) and 57.5% (6-fold increase) for unmyelinated and myelinated axons, respectively. In normal animals, Nav1.9 labeled 9.9% of the unmyelinated and 2.1% of the myelinated axons and following inflammation, the proportion of Nav1.9-labeled unmyelinated axons significantly decreased to 3.0% with no change in the proportion of labeled myelinated axons. These data indicate that Nav1.8 and Nav1.9 subunits are transported to the periphery in normal animals and are differentially regulated during inflammation. The massive increase in Nav1.8 expression in myelinated axons suggests that these may contribute to peripheral sensitization and inflammatory hyperalgesia.
Statins are lipid-lowering drugs that have been shown to reduce atherosclerotic cardiovascular morbidity and mortality. However, there is growing evidence from epidemiological studies that long-term treatment with statins has unwanted effects on extrahepatic tissue and increases the risk for neuropathy. To investigate underlying molecular mechanisms we analyzed whether statins influence the activity of caspase-3 in immortalized neurons. Lovastatin and mevastatin are not able to activate caspase-3 but they strongly potentiate its activity when apoptotic signal transduction is initiated by staurosporine. The increase in caspase-3 activity after coincubation with statins and staurosporine was paralleled by an increase in the protein level of the pro-apoptotic GTPase RhoB. Our data provide evidence that statins enhance neuronal apoptosis and therefore give reasons for a careful evaluation when patients with neurological diseases are treated with these drugs.
There are three types of mouse Mutyh mRNAs (type a, b and c) generated by alternative splicing, and type b mRNA is a major form among the three in most of the tissues examined. The level of type c mRNA is relatively high in brain. Type a and b mRNAs were expected to encode 57.7 kDa protein (MUTYHalpha), while type c mRNA had a partly different open reading frame encoding a 50.2 kDa protein (MUTYHbeta). An in vitro translation of type b and c mRNAs produced a 50 kDa MUTYHalpha and 47 kDa MUTYHbeta, respectively. MUTYHalpha and MUTYHbeta were detected in wild-type embryonic stem (ES) cells or thymocytes prepared from wild-type mice, but neither MUTYH-null ES cells nor thymocytes prepared from MUTYH-null mice. Both MUTYHalpha and MUTYHbeta were mainly localized in the nuclei and some in mitochondria in wild-type ES cells. Recombinant MUTYHalpha and beta were expressed as fusion proteins with thioredoxin in Escherichia coli, but only MUTYHalpha was partly soluble and thus could be purified. Recombinant MUTYHalpha possessed DNA glycosylase activities to excise adenine opposite 8-oxoguanine and guanine but not AP lyase activity.

Midbrain dopamine (DA) neurons are thought to encode reward prediction error. Reward prediction can be improved if any relevant context is taken into account. We found that monkey DA neurons can encode a context-dependent prediction error. In the first noncontextual task, a light stimulus was randomly followed by reward, with a fixed equal probability. The response of DA neurons was positively correlated with the number of preceding unrewarded trials and could be simulated by a conventional temporal difference (TD) model. In the second contextual task, a reward-indicating light stimulus was presented with the probability that, while fixed overall, was incremented as a function of the number of preceding unrewarded trials. The DA neuronal response then was negatively correlated with this number. This history effect corresponded to the prediction error based on the conditional probability of reward and could be simulated only by implementing the relevant context into the TD model.
Correlated pre- and postsynaptic activity that induces long-term potentiation is known to induce a persistent enhancement of the intrinsic excitability of the presynaptic neuron. Here we report that, associated with the induction of long-term depression in hippocampal cultures and in somatosensory cortical slices, there is also a persistent reduction in the excitability of the presynaptic neuron. This reduction requires postsynaptic Ca(2+) elevation and presynaptic PKA- and PKC-dependent modification of slow-inactivating K(+) channels. The bidirectional changes in neuronal excitability and synaptic efficacy exhibit identical requirements for the temporal order of pre- and postsynaptic activation but reflect two distinct aspects of activity-induced modification of neural circuits.
Mutations in the doublecortin (DCX) gene in human or targeted disruption of the cdk5 gene in mouse lead to similar cortical lamination defects in the developing brain. Here we show that Dcx is phosphorylated by Cdk5. Dcx phosphorylation is developmentally regulated and corresponds to the timing of expression of p35, the major activating subunit for Cdk5. Mass spectrometry and Western blot analysis indicate phosphorylation at Dcx residue Ser297. Phosphorylation of Dcx lowers its affinity to microtubules in vitro, reduces its effect on polymerization, and displaces it from microtubules in cultured neurons. Mutation of Ser297 blocks the effect of Dcx on migration in a fashion similar to pharmacological inhibition of Cdk5 activity. These results suggest that Dcx phosphorylation by Cdk5 regulates its actions on migration through an effect on microtubules.
Apolipoprotein E (apoE) and clusterin can influence structure, toxicity, and accumulation of the amyloid-beta (Abeta) peptide in brain. Both molecules may also be involved in Abeta metabolism prior to its deposition. To assess this possibility, we compared PDAPP transgenic mice that develop age-dependent Abeta accumulation in the absence of apoE or clusterin as well as in the absence of both proteins. apoE(-/-) and clusterin(-/-) mice accumulated similar Abeta levels but much less fibrillar Abeta. In contrast, apoE(-/-)/clusterin(-/-) mice had both earlier onset and markedly increased Abeta and amyloid deposition. Both apoE(-/-) and apoE(-/-)/clusterin(-/-) mice had elevated CSF and brain interstitial fluid Abeta, as well as significant differences in the elimination half-life of interstitial fluid Abeta measured by in vivo microdialysis. These findings demonstrate additive effects of apoE and clusterin on influencing Abeta deposition and that apoE plays an important role in regulating extracellular CNS Abeta metabolism independent of Abeta synthesis.
Olfaction is a principal sensory modality in rodents, and rats quickly learn to discriminate between odors and to associate odor with reward. Here we show that such olfactory discrimination (OD) learning consists of two phases with distinct cellular mechanisms: an initial NMDAR-sensitive phase in which the animals acquire a successful behavioral strategy (rule learning), followed by an NMDAR-insensitive phase in which the animals learn to distinguish between individual odors (pair learning). Rule learning regulates the composition of synaptic NMDARs in the piriform cortex, resulting in receptors with a higher complement of the NR2a subunit protein relative to NR2b. Rule learning also reduces long-term potentiation (LTP) induced by high-frequency stimulation of the intracortical axons in slices of piriform cortex. As NR2a-containing NMDARs mediate shorter excitatory postsynaptic currents than those containing NR2b, we suggest that learning-induced regulation of NMDAR composition constrains subsequent synaptic plasticity, thereby maintaining the memory encoded by experience.
How are two prominent environmental features, surface texture and object location, transduced and encoded as rats whisk? Recent papers show that textures may excite intrinsic mechanical vibrations of the vibrissae. Although these vibrations are too rapid to be directly followed by cortical neurons, there is evidence that their speed is encoded by contact-dependent sensory signals. In addition to contact, sensory signals exist that report the angular position of the vibrissae. The combination of contact and reference signals may be used to decode spatial variations in the environment, particularly the location of objects in head-centered coordinates.
Midbrain dopamine neurons are thought to encode the difference between predicted and actual reward on conditioning tasks. Successful models assumed a simple form of prediction that depended only on currently available information. In this issue of Neuron, Nakahara and colleagues record from dopamine neurons in alert monkeys and show that the neurons can encode predictions that are not so restricted, taking into account the context of past trends.
The neurotrophin nerve growth factor (NGF) plays a crucial role in the development of the sympathetic nervous system. In addition to being required for sympathetic neuron survival in vivo and in vitro, NGF has been shown to mediate axon growth in vitro. The role of NGF in sympathetic axon growth in vivo, however, is not clear because of its requirement for survival. This requirement can be circumvented by a concomitant deletion of Bax, a pro-apoptotic Bcl-2 family member, thus allowing an examination of the role of neurotrophins in axon growth independently of their function in cell survival. Here, we analyzed peripheral sympathetic target organ innervation in mice deficient for both NGF and Bax. In neonatal NGF-/-; Bax-/- mice, sympathetic target innervation was absent in certain organs (such as salivary glands), greatly reduced in others (such as heart), somewhat diminished in a few (such as stomach and kidneys), but not significantly different from control in some (such as trachea). At embryonic day 16.5, peripheral target sympathetic innervation was also reduced in NGF-/-; Bax-/- mice, with analogous variability for different organs. Interestingly, in some organs such as the spleen the precise location at which sympathetic axons become NGF-dependent for growth was evident. We thus show that NGF is required for complete peripheral innervation of both paravertebral and prevertebral sympathetic ganglia targets in vivo independently of its requirement for cell survival. Remarkably, target organs vary widely in their individual NGF requirements for sympathetic innervation.
Type I and type II spiral ganglion neurons convey auditory information from the sensory receptors in the cochlea to the CNS. The numerous type I neurons have been extensively characterized, but the small population of type II neurons with their unmyelinated axons are undetectable with most recording methods. Despite the paucity of information about the type II neurons, it is clear that they must have a significant role in sound processing because they innervate the large number of outer hair cells that are critical for maintaining normal responses to stimuli. To elucidate the function of type II neurons, we have developed an approach for studying their electrophysiological features in vitro. Type II neurons obtained from postnatal day 6-7 mice displayed distinctly different firing properties than type I neurons. They showed slower accommodation, lower action potential thresholds, and more prolonged responses to depolarizing current injection than the type I neurons. These differences were most evident in neurons from the basal, high-frequency region of the cochlea. The basal type I neurons displayed uniformly fast firing features, whereas the basal type II neurons showed particularly slow accommodation and responses to depolarization. Interestingly, neurons from the apical, low-frequency region of the cochlea showed the opposite trend. These data suggest that the type I and type II neurons have specialized electrophysiological characteristics tailored to their different roles in auditory signal processing. In particular, the type II neuron properties are consistent with cells in other sensory systems that receive convergent synaptic input for high-sensitivity stimulus detection.
As part of ongoing studies on the neurobiology of socioemotional behavior in the nonhuman primate, we examined the development of mother-infant interactions in 24 macaque monkeys who received either bilateral amygdala or hippocampus ibotenic acid lesions, or a sham surgical procedure at 2 weeks of age. After surgery, the infants were returned to their mothers and reared with daily access to small social groups. Behavioral observations of the infants in dyads (mother-infant pairs alone), tetrads (two mother-infant pairs), and social groups (six mother-infant pairs and one adult male) revealed species-typical mother-infant interactions for all lesion conditions, with the exception of increased physical contact time between the amygdala-lesioned infants and their mothers. Immediately after permanent separation from their mothers at 6 months of age, the infants were tested in a mother preference test that allowed the infants to choose between their mother and another familiar adult female. Unlike control and hippocampus-lesioned infants, the amygdala-lesioned infants did not preferentially seek proximity to their mother, nor did they produce distress vocalizations. Given the normal development of mother-infant interactions observed before weaning, we attribute the behavior of the amygdala-lesioned infants during the preference test to an impaired ability to perceive potential danger (i.e., separation from their mother in a novel environment), rather than to a disruption of the mother-infant relationship. These results are consistent with the view that the amygdala is not essential for fundamental aspects of social behavior but is necessary to evaluate potentially dangerous situations and to coordinate appropriate behavioral responses.
Extensive motor skill training induces reorganization of movement representations and synaptogenesis within adult motor cortex. Motor skill does not, however, develop uniformly across training sessions. It is characterized by an initial fast phase, followed by a later slow phase of learning. How cortical plasticity emerges during these phases is unknown. Here, we examine motor map topography and synapse number within rat motor cortex during the early and late phases of motor learning. Adult rats were placed in either a skilled or unskilled reaching condition (SRC and URC, respectively) for 3, 7, or 10 d. Intracortical microstimulation of layer V was used to determine the topography of forelimb movement representations within caudal forelimb area of motor cortex contralateral to the trained paw. Quantitative electron microscopy was used to measure the number of synapses per neuron within layer V. SRC animals showed significant increases in reaching accuracy after 3, 7, and 10 d of training. In comparison with URC animals, SRC animals had significantly larger distal forelimb representations after 10 d of training only. Furthermore, SRC animals had significantly more synapses per neuron than URC animals after 7 and 10 d of training. These results show that both motor map reorganization and synapse formation occur during the late phase of skill learning. Furthermore, synaptogenesis precedes map reorganization. We propose that motor map reorganization and synapse formation do not contribute to the initial acquisition of motor skills but represent the consolidation of motor skill that occurs during late stages of training.
Norepinephrine, acting through beta-adrenergic receptors, is implicated in mammalian memory. In in vitro and in vivo studies, norepinephrine produces potentiation of the perforant path-dentate gyrus evoked potential; however, the duration and dynamics of norepinephrine-induced potentiation have not been explored over extended time periods. To characterize the long-term effects of norepinephrine on granule cell plasticity, the present study uses glutamatergic activation of the locus ceruleus (LC) to induce release of norepinephrine in the hippocampus of the awake rat and examines the subsequent modulation of the dentate gyrus evoked potential for 3 hr (short term) and 24 hr (long term) after LC activation. LC activation initiates a potentiation of the field EPSP slope observed 24 hr later. This late-phase potentiation of the synaptic potential is not preceded by early phase potentiation, although spike potentiation can be seen both immediately after, and 24 hr after, LC activation. Intracerebroventricular infusion of the beta-adrenergic antagonist, propranolol, or the protein synthesis inhibitor, anisomycin, before LC activation blocks the potentiation of perforant path input observed at 24 hr. The initiation of late-phase synaptic potentiation observed at 24 hr but not at the 3 hr after LC activation parallels the observation of a cAMP- and protein synthesis-dependent long-lasting synaptic facilitation in Aplysia that is not preceded by short-term synaptic facilitation. Locus ceruleus-initiated synaptic potentiation may selectively support long-term, rather than short-term, memory. The observation of selective initiation of long-term synaptic facilitation in a mammalian brain, as in invertebrates, is additional evidence that these two forms of memory depend on separable biological mechanisms.
Parkinson disease is an age-related neurodegenerative disease that affects approximately 1 million persons in the United States. Current therapies provide effective control of symptoms, particularly in the early stages of the disease, but most patients develop motor complications with long-term treatment, and features develop such as postural instability, falling, and dementia that are not adequately controlled with existing medications. Accordingly, neuroprotective therapy that might slow, stop, or reverse disease progression is urgently needed. While many agents appear to be promising based on laboratory studies, selecting clinical end points for clinical trials that are not confounded by symptomatic effects of the study intervention has been difficult. More recently, neuroimaging end points have been used as biomarkers of disease progression, but again there are concerns that they may be influenced by regulatory effects of the drugs used. We review clinical trials aimed at detecting neuroprotection in Parkinson disease and address the controversies surrounding the interpretation of these studies.
A morphological transformation involving loss of adhesion between myelin lamellae and formation of myelin vesicles has been described as a mechanism for demyelination in multiple sclerosis and marmoset experimental allergic encephalomyelitis (EAE). Although protein interactions are involved in maintaining normal myelin structure, we describe here how lipids contribute to myelin stability and how lipid changes in EAE, including increases in lipid polyunsaturation and negatively charged phosphatidylserine (PS), promote demyelination. Three physico-chemical techniques were used to identify these changes: (1) Langmuir monolayer isotherms indicated that EAE white matter lipids were significantly more &quot;expanded&quot; (fluid) than controls. (2) NMR spectroscopy indicated that EAE myelin lipids were more polyunsaturated than controls. (3) High-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) with an evaporative light scattering detector indicated increased PS in EAE compared to controls, while sphingomyelin (SM), sulfatides and phosphatidylcholine (PC) were decreased. We present a physical model considering electrostatic, van der Waals and undulation forces to quantify the effect of these changes on myelin adhesion at the extracellular interface. Taken together, the isotherm, NMR, HPLC and modeling results support a mechanism for autoimmune demyelination whereby the composition of myelin lipids is altered in a manner that increases myelin fluidity, decreases myelin adhesion, increases membrane curvature, and promotes vesiculation.
Previous work has shown that both human adults and children attend to grasping actions performed by another person but not necessarily to those made by a mechanical device. According to recent neurophysiological data, the monkey premotor cortex contains &quot;mirror&quot; neurons that discharge both when the monkey performs specific manual grasping actions and when it observes another individual performing the same or similar actions. However, when a human model uses tools to perform grasping actions, the mirror neurons are not activated. A similar &quot;mirror&quot; system has been described in humans, but whether or not it is also tuned specifically to biological actions has never been tested. Here we show that when subjects observed manual grasping actions performed by a human model a significant neural response was elicited in the left premotor cortex. This activation was not evident for the observation of grasping actions performed by a robot model commanded by an experimenter. This result indicates for the first time that in humans the mirror system is biologically tuned. This system appears to be the neural substrate for biological preference during action coding.

Recently a significant conceptual change emerged in the interpretation of addictological disorders. Despite this significant progress, the exact neuronal mechanisms of these disorders are still unknown. By the development of cognitive neuroscience novel clinical tests became available which are devoted to the evaluation of more properly defined neuronal structures. These novel approaches are designed to separately investigate memory/attention-related and affective processes in decision-making. These investigations along with animal models and functional neuroimaging approaches suggest the crucial role of a complex neuronal network in the pathomechanism of addictological disorders, including the ventromedial prefrontal cortex and the amygdala-accumbens system. The aim of this paper is to review these novel findings in order to gain insight into the neurocognitive mechanisms of addictological disorders.
Thiourea derivatives were identified as glyburide-reversible potassium channel openers through high-throughput screening. Based on these findings, a number of novel cyanoguanidines were designed and synthesized, which hyperpolarized human bladder K(ATP) channels. These agents are potent full agonists in relaxing electrically-stimulated pig bladder strips. The synthesis, SAR and biological properties of these agents are discussed.
The present study examined the potential role of tachykinin NK1 receptors in modulating immobilisation stress-induced increase of dopamine metabolism in rat medial prefrontal cortex. In agreement with previous studies, 20 min immobilisation stress significantly increased medial prefrontal cortex dopamine metabolism as reflected by the concentration of the dopamine metabolite dihydroxyphenylacetic acid (DOPAC). Pretreatment with the high affinity, selective, tachykinin NK1 receptor antagonist (3(S)-(2-methoxy-5-(5-trifluoromethyltetrazol-1-yl)-phenylmethyl amino)-2(S)-phenylpiperidine) ((S)-GR205171, 10 mg/kg, s.c.), a dose that in ex vivo binding studies extensively occupied rat brain tachykinin NK1 receptors for approximately 60 min, significantly attenuated the stress-induced increase of mesocortical DOPAC concentration without affecting cortical DOPAC levels per se. In contrast, pretreatment of animals with the less active enantiomer (R)-GR205171 (10 mg/kg, s.c.), which demonstrated negligible tachykinin NK1 receptor occupancy ex vivo, failed to affect either basal or stress-induced DOPAC concentration in medial prefrontal cortex. Furthermore, pretreatment of animals with the benzodiazepine/GABAA receptor antagonist, flumazenil (15 mg/kg, i.p.), did not affect the ability of (S)-GR205171 to attenuate the increase of medial prefrontal cortex DOPAC concentration by acute stress. Results demonstrate that the selective tachykinin NK1 receptor antagonist, (S)-GR205171, attenuated the stress-induced activation of mesocortical dopamine neurones by a mechanism independent of the benzodiazepine modulatory site of the GABAA receptor.
Oxytocin receptors (OTR) and vasopressin V1a receptors (V1aR) in the ventral forebrain play critical roles in the formation of pair bonds in the monogamous prairie vole. Previous reports have been inconsistent in the identification of the specific brain regions in the ventral forebrain that express these receptors. To delineate more clearly the neuroanatomical boundaries of the OTR and V1aR fields in this species, we compared OTR and V1aR binding in adjacent brain sections and also with markers that delineate neuroanatomical boundaries in the ventral forebrain. OTR binding displayed an overlapping distribution with substance P mRNA and preproenkephalin mRNA, both markers for the shell and core of the nucleus accumbens. V1aR binding was nonoverlapping with each of these markers but colocalized with iron accumulation as shown by Perls' iron stain as well as leucine-enkephalin immunoreactivity, both markers for the ventral pallidum. OTR and V1aR mRNA were also restricted within the nucleus accumbens and ventral pallidum, respectively. Furthermore, destruction of ventral striatal dopaminergic terminals with 6-hydroxydopamine infusions into the nucleus accumbens did not alter OTR binding. Immunocytochemical analysis of oxytocin and vasopressin in the ventral forebrain demonstrated the presence of oxytocin-immunoreactive fibers in the nucleus accumbens and vasopressin-immunoreactive fibers in the ventral pallidum, with males showing a greater density of vasopressin fibers than females, but there was no such sex difference in the oxytocin system. Based on these results, we discuss potential neural mechanisms by which receptors in these brain regions mediate pair bond formation in this monogamous species. J. Comp. Neurol. 468:555-570, 2004.
Studies of human brain indicate that both the ventromedial prefrontal cortex (PFC) and the dorsal raphe nucleus (DRN) may be dysfunctional in major depressive illness, making it important to understand the functional interactions between these brain regions. Anatomical studies have shown that the PFC projects to the DRN, although the synaptic targets of this excitatory pathway have not yet been identified. Electrophysiological investigations in the rat DRN report that most serotonin neurons are inhibited by electrical stimulation of the PFC, suggesting that this pathway is more likely to synapse onto neighboring gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) neurons than onto serotonin cells. We tested this hypothesis by electron microscopic examination of DRN sections dually labeled for biotin dextran amine anterogradely transported from the PFC and immunogold-silver labeling for tryptophan hydroxylase (TrH) or for GABA. In the DRN, the majority of PFC axons either synapsed onto unlabeled dendrites or failed to form detectable synapses in single sections. Other PFC axons synapsed onto either TrH- or GABA-immunolabeled processes. Considerably more tissue sampling was necessary to detect PFC synapses onto TrH- than onto GABA-labeled dendrites, suggesting that the latter connections are more common. In other cases, PFC terminals and TrH- or GABA-immunoreactive dendrites either were closely apposed, without forming detectable synapses, or were separated by glial processes. These results provide potential anatomical substrates whereby the PFC can both directly and indirectly regulate the activity of serotonin neurons in the DRN and possibly contribute to the pathophysiology of depression.
The neurohypophyseal peptides are evolutionarily conserved and their expression can be socially modulated. Our question was what effect will socially induced sex change have on forebrain isotocin, an oxytocin homologue? We removed males from social groups to induce dominant females to change sex and become males in Lythrypnus dalli. Fish in the late stages of sex change had fewer forebrain isotocin-immunoreactive (-ir) cells than early stage and unchanged females. When groups were consolidated into unequivocal males (control males and sex-changed new males) and unequivocal females (fish prior to courtship as a male), females had significantly more isotocin-ir cells than control males and recently sex-changed fish. This is the first study demonstrating the social regulation of forebrain isotocin.
Neurofibrillary tangles, containing hyperphosphorylated microtubule-associated protein tau, are one of the major pathological hallmarks of Alzheimer's disease. To investigate a possible association between tau genotypes and the risk of Alzheimer's disease, we screened for polymorphisms in the tau gene and found a novel polymorphism IVS11 + 90G --&gt; A. A case-control study (874 patients and 678 controls) showed a significant association between possession of the A allele and male Alzheimer's disease with early-onset (age of onset before 65, odds ratio = 2.65; 95% confidence interval 1.30-5.42), suggesting that age and gender modify the risk effect. However, we failed to replicate the reported association between the Saitohin gene located in the tau intron 9 and Japanese Alzheimer's disease.
The functional primacy of syntactic over semantic processes was put to test in an auditory event-related brain potentials study using sentences in which the final words were semantically and/or syntactically incongruent with the prior context. Crucially, these words encoded the syntactically relevant word category information in the suffix, available only after the word stem which carried the semantic information. Semantic violations elicited an N400 and syntactic violations a biphasic LAN-P600 pattern. Words that were semantically and syntactically incongruent with the context evoked a biphasic LAN-P600 ERP pattern, but no N400. The similarity of the ERP pattern for the pure syntactic and the double violation condition provides strong evidence for a functional primacy of initial syntactic over lexical-semantic processes.
When using fMRI to study age-related cognitive changes, it is important to establish the integrity of the hemodynamic response because, potentially, it can be affected by age and disease. However, there have been few attempts to document such integrity and no attempts using higher cognitive rather than perceptual or motor tasks. We used fMRI with 28 healthy young and older adults on an inhibitory control task. Although older and young adults differed in task performance and activation patterns, they had comparable hemodynamic responses. We conclude that activation during cognitive inhibition, which was predominantly increased in elders, was not due to vascular confounds or specific changes in hemodynamic coupling.
It is only relatively recently that the search for the biological basis of social cognition has started. It is still unknown just how biological factors, from genes to brain processes, interact with environmental variables to produce individual differences in social competence and in pathology of social communication. It may seem over-ambitious to work out how connections can be made between sophisticated social behaviour and basic neurophysiological mechanisms. However, examples already exist. The neural basis of social processes such as deception and morality are now being studied by cognitive neuroscientists. In this review, we summarize recent work that has illuminated the neuro-cognitive basis of complex social interaction and communication in humans.
Glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF) promotes neuronal survival and influences the development and function of synaptic connections. To test the role of GDNF on the stabilisation of synapses, we examined reinnervated neuromuscular junctions in myo-GDNF mice that over-express GDNF under control of a myogenin promoter. The level of polyneuronal innervation was increased following reinnervation in these mice, although many converging inputs were extremely fine and contained few neurofilaments. Electrophysiological experiments confirmed that some inputs were weak or non-functional by showing that the increased morphological levels of polyneuronal innervation were not reflected in the functional responses of endplates to nerve stimulation. Thus, myo-GDNF over-expression enhances reinnervation, but at the expense of both neurofilament integrity, and functional reliability.
We previously reported that hepatocyte growth factor (HGF) promoted proliferation of neurospheres and neuronal differentiation of neural stem cells (NSCs) derived from mouse embryonic brain. In this study, spheres from mouse embryonic stem (ES) cells were generated by floating culture following co-culture on PA6 stromal cells. In contrast to the behavior of the neurospheres derived from embryonic brain, addition of HGF to the growth medium of the floating cultures decreased the number of spheres derived from ES cells. When spheres were stained using a MAP-2 antibody, more MAP-2-positive cells were observed in spheres cultured with HGF. When HGF was added to the growth and/or differentiation medium, more MAP-2-positive cells were also obtained. These results suggest that HGF promotes neuronal differentiation of NSCs derived from ES cells.

By utilizing double-labeled fluorescent cellular prion protein (PrPC), we revealed that the NH2-terminal and COOH-terminal PrPC fragments exhibit distinct distribution patterns in mouse neuroblastoma neuro2a (N2a) cells and HpL3-4, a hippocampal cell line established from prnp gene-ablated mice [Nature 400 (1999) 225]. Of note, the NH2-terminal PrPC fragment, which predominantly localized in the intracellular compartments, congregated in the cytosol after the treatment with a microtubule depolymerizer (nocodazole). Truncated PrPC with the amino acid residues 1-121, 1-111, and 1-91 in mouse (Mo) PrP exhibited a proper distribution profile, whereas those with amino acid residues 1-52 and 1-33 did not. These data indicate the microtubules-associated intracellular localization of the NH2-terminal PrPC fragment containing at least the 1-91 amino acid residues.
Dendritic spines, small protrusions from dendritic shafts, receive most of the excitatory synapses in cortical regions. Spines are highly plastic structures that can be rapidly produced or lost in response to a wide array of internal and external stimuli, and they proliferate in acute slice preparations [J. Neurosci. 19 (1999) 2876]. The goal of the present study was to determine if protein synthesis is necessary for this spine proliferation. We found that the addition of protein synthesis inhibitors to acute slices (in which spines otherwise proliferate) blocked new spine growth. Furthermore, a population of longer spines was observed after 2 h but these did not develop during protein synthesis blockade. These data suggest that protein synthesis is necessary for new spine growth in acute brain slice preparations and support literature suggesting that newly produced spines develop from filopodia-like protrusions.
The present study investigates co-localization of AT(1A) receptor subtype and Fos protein in neuronal populations of the lamina terminalis (LT) that have been recruited during acute Na(+) and water depletion mediated by furosemide injections. For that purpose, we combined high cellular resolution of in situ hybridization technique to reveal neurons expressing AT(1A) receptor gene (AT(1A) mRNA) with the specificity of Fos protein immunoreactivity as a marker of neuronal activation (Fos-ir). As expected, furosemide treatment dramatically increased the density of Fos-immunoreactive neuronal population in all the regions of the LT compared to control (saline-injected animals). Distribution analysis of Fos-ir neurons and AT(1A) receptor-expressing neurons performed consecutively to furosemide-induced Na(+) and water depletion indicated that double-labeled neurons (AT(1A) mRNA+Fos-ir) represented the majority (67%) of the neuronal population that expressed AT(1A) receptor in the rim of the vascular organ of the lamina terminalis (OVLT). Double-labeled neurons amounted about 60% of the neurons that expressed AT(1A) receptor in the core of the subfornical organ (SFO) and 34% in the periphery of the SFO. In the median preoptic nucleus (MnPO), the density of the double-labeled neuronal population observed in the furosemide-treated animals remained weak compared to the control group of animals. Double-labeled neuronal population estimated in the MnPO of the furosemide-treated group of animals represented 17% of the neurons that express AT(1A) receptor gene. Our results report a heterogeneous distribution of the neuronal populations that co-localize AT(1A) receptor and Fos protein in the lamina terminalis after an acute Na(+) and water depletion. This study gives anatomical support to a direct action of endogenous AngII on c-fos transcription via binding on AT(1A) receptor in specific areas of the circumventricular organs (rim of the OVLT and core of the SFO). In the MnPO, our data indicate that intracellular signaling pathways unlikely couple AT(1A) receptor with c-fos transcription. The expression of Fos protein in this nucleus might be therefore secondary to the recruitment of excitatory inputs different from AngII. This observation underlines the complexity of molecules and neurocircuits in the preoptic region that are involved in the control of acute Na(+) and water deficit.
RNA interference (RNAi) is a powerful tool for suppressing the expression of a gene of interest, in which 21-25 nucleotide short interfering RNA (siRNA) duplexes homologous to the silenced gene function as sequence-specific RNAi mediators. The present study shows that newly designed siRNA duplexes, 'fork-siRNA duplexes', whose sense-stranded siRNA elements carry one to four nucleotide mismatches at the 3'-ends against the antisense-stranded siRNA elements, can enhance RNAi activity over conventional siRNA duplexes in cultured mammalian cells.
LDL receptor related proteins 5 and 6 (LRP5/6) and their Drosophila homolog Arrow are single-span transmembrane proteins essential for Wnt/beta-catenin signaling, likely via acting as Wnt coreceptors. How Wnt activates LRP5/6/Arrow to initiate signal transduction is not well defined. Here we show that a PPPSP motif, which is reiterated five times in the LRP5/6/Arrow intracellular domain, is necessary and sufficient to trigger Wnt/beta-catenin signaling. A single PPPSP motif, upon transfer to the LDL receptor, fully activates the Wnt pathway, inducing complete axis duplication in Xenopus and TCF/beta-catenin-responsive transcription in human cells. We further show that Wnt signal-ing stimulates, and requires, phosphorylation of the PPPSP motif, which creates an inducible docking site for Axin, a scaffolding protein controlling beta-catenin stability. Our study identifies a critical signaling module and a key phosphorylation-dependent activation step of the Wnt receptor complex and reveals a unifying logic for transmembrane signaling by Wnts, growth factors, and cytokines.




A model of schizophrenia, the chakragati (ckr) mouse was serendipitously created as a result of a transgenic insertional mutation. The apparent loss-of-function of an endogenous gene produced mice that, when homozygous, displayed an abnormal circling behavior phenotype. To determine whether this phenotype could be corrected by atypical antipsychotics, we compared the effects of clozapine and olanzapine on rotational turns and hyperactivity. Both of these drugs successfully ameliorated circling behavior and hyperactivity in homozygous mice. The increased motor activity of these mutant mice was both qualitatively and quantitatively similar to that observed in wild-type animals treated with dizocilpine, an N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor antagonist that produces behaviors resembling positive symptoms of schizophrenia. Mice either homozygous or heterozygous for the mutation also displayed enlargement of the lateral ventricles, which was accompanied only in the homozygous genotype by a loss of individual myelinated axons in the striatum and agenesis of the corpus callosum. These structural brain deficits were selective in that the nigro-striatal dopamine system was normal in these homozygous mice. In addition, two types of interneurons in the neostriatum, namely those producing acetylcholine or nitric-oxide synthase were also devoid of significant structural abnormalities. These results indicate that the ckr mouse mutant could be used as a possible animal model to study the pathophysiology of schizophrenia and suggest possible strategies for treating the behavioral aspects of this brain disease.
Suppressive silver methods evolved from empirical observations about 50 years ago that argyrophilia of normal nerve fibers can be suppressed by a short period of oxidation of tissue sections, whereas degenerating nerve fibers in the same preparations were still clearly visible. Based on this property, suppressive silver impregnation became the main technique for investigating pathways in the central nervous system until the early 1970s. Suppressive silver methods were also found to visualize degenerating nerve cell bodies, in addition to degenerating nerve fibers. This possibility has given these methods an important place among current tools for identifying neuronal degeneration in trauma, disease and toxicity. In this article we demonstrate and review the usefulness of suppressive silver methods in identifying neurons undergoing degeneration as a result of peripheral or central axon injury in immature animals. The documentation is based on previously published data from experiments in which silver impregnation was used to demonstrate degeneration of motoneurons following pure motor axon injury or mixed peripheral nerve injury, as well as on new results on degeneration-induced argyrophilia in the inferior olive following cerebellar lesions. We find that silver precipitates resulting from these injuries are localized either to the entire neuronal cytoplasm, to a few (typically two) intranuclear bodies, or to both sites. The findings are discussed in relation to morphological features of apoptosis, necrosis and retrograde neuronal responses. We suggest that suppressive silver methods allow visualization of different processes of neuronal degeneration, and therefore may be a useful adjunct for identifying axotomy-induced neuronal degeneration.
During Drosophila embryogenesis, developing muscles extend growth-cone-like structures to navigate toward specific epidermal attachment sites. Here, we show that the homolog of Glutamate Receptor-Interacting Proteins (DGrip) acts as a key component of proper muscle guidance. Mutations in dgrip impair patterning of ventral longitudinal muscles (VLMs), whereas lateral transverse muscles (LTMs) that attach to intrasegmental attachment sites develop normally. Myoblast fusion, stabilization of muscle contacts, and general muscle function are not impaired in the absence of DGrip. Instead, the proper formation of cellular extensions during guidance fails in dgrip mutant VLMs. DGrip protein concentrates at the ends of VLMs while these muscles guide toward segment border attachment sites. Conversely, LTMs overexpressing DGrip form ectopic cellular extensions that can cause attachment of these muscles to other muscles at segment borders. Our data suggest that DGrip participates in the reception of an attractive signal that emanates from the epidermal attachment sites to direct the motility of developing muscles. This dgrip phenotype should be valuable to study mechanistic principles of Grip function.
We have studied microglial morphology in the human cerebral cortex of two nondemented subjects using high-resolution LN-3 immunohistochemistry. Several abnormalities in microglial cytoplasmic structure, including deramification, spheroid formation, gnarling, and fragmentation of processes, were identified. These changes were determined to be different from the morphological changes that occur during microglial activation and they were designated collectively as microglial dystrophy. Quantitative evaluation of dystrophic changes in microglia revealed that these were much more prevalent in the older subject (68-year-old) than in the younger one (38-year-old). Thus, we conclude that microglial dystrophy is a sign of microglial cell senescence. We hypothesize that microglial senescence could be important for understanding age-related declines in cognitive function.
Tau2 is a phosphorylation-independent antibody that immunolabels neurofibrillary tangles (NFTs) of Alzheimer type and microglia around ischemic foci on formalin-fixed, paraffin-embedded sections. We found that copresence of polyethyleneglycol-p-isooctylphenyl ether (Triton X-100; TX) with tau2 abolished its immunoreactivity (IR) in these microglia but not its IR on NFTs. Tau2-immunoreactive bands, exclusively retrieved in Tris-soluble fraction of brain homogenates from ischemic foci, normal human and bovine brains, were of similar electrophoretic mobility, indicating that tau2 IR in these microglia is unrelated to hyperphosphorylation of tau. These tau2-immunoreactive bands except those from bovine brain were abolished in the copresence of TX. This was not due to washing out of tau, because similar immunoreactive bands were detectable with another antitau antibody even under a higher concentration of TX and because washing after TX exposure restored similar tau2 IR both on immunohistochemistry and immunoblot. These findings are explained if tau, modified after ischemia, undergoes a reversible conformational change on TX exposure. Because conformation at Ser101 of bovine tau is crucial for its affinity to tau2, this Ser-like conformation mimicked by its human counterpart Pro may represent pathological modification of tau shared by microglia around ischemic foci and NFTs. Relative resistance of tau2 epitope in NFTs to TX exposure suggests that tau woven into NFTs confers additional stability to this pathological modification on tau2 epitope. Susceptibility of tau2 epitope to TX, seen in these microglia, is shared with glial cytoplasmic inclusions and will show its conformational state to be different from that in NFTs.
Glutamate is the major neurotransmitter of the brain, whose extracellular levels are tightly controlled by glutamate transporters. Five glutamate transporters in the human brain (EAAT1-5) are present on both astroglia and neurons. We characterize the profile of three different human astroglial progenitors in vitro: human glial restricted precursors (HGRP), human astrocyte precursors (HAPC), and early-differentiated astrocytes. EAAT 1, EAAT3, and EAAT4 are all expressed in GRPs with a subsequent upregulation of EAAT1 following differentiation of GRPs into GRP-derived astrocytes in the presence of bone morphogenic protein (BMP-4). This corresponds to a significant increase in the glutamate transport capacity of these cells. EAAT2, the transporter responsible for the bulk of glutamate transport in the adult brain, is not expressed as a full-length protein, nor does it appear to have functional significance (as determined by the EAAT2 inhibitor dihydrokainate) in these precursors. A splice variant of EAAT2, termed EAAT2b, does appear to be present in low levels, however. EAAT3 and EAAT4 expression is reduced as glial maturation progresses both in astrocyte precursors and early-differentiated astrocytes and is consistent with their role in adult tissues as primarily neuronal glutamate transporters. These human glial precursors offer several advantages as tools for understanding glial biology because they can be passaged extensively in the presence of mitogens, afford the potential to study the temporal changes in glutamate transporter expression in a tightly controlled fashion, and are cultured in the absence of neuronal coculture, allowing for the independent study of astroglial biology.
An inappropriate cross talk between activated T lymphocytes infiltrating the CNS and neural cells can sustain the onset and progression of demyelination and axonal degeneration in neuroinflammatory diseases. To mimic this deleterious cross talk, we designed an experimental paradigm consisting of transient cocultures of T lymphocytes chronically activated by retrovirus infection (not virus productive) with human multipotent neural precursors or primary oligodendrocytes from rat brain. We showed that activated T lymphocytes induced apoptotic death of multipotent neural progenitors and immature oligodendrocytes after a progressive collapse of their process extensions. These effects were reminiscent of those induced by brain semaphorin on neural cells. Blockade by specific Abs of soluble CD100 (sCD100)/semaphorin 4D released by activated T cells, or treatment with rsCD100, demonstrated that this immune semaphorin has the ability to collapse oligodendrocyte process extensions and to trigger neural cell apoptosis, most likely through receptors of the plexin family. The specific presence of sCD100 in the cerebrospinal fluid and of CD100-expressing T lymphocytes in the spinal cord of patients suffering with neuroinflammatory demyelination pointed to the potential pathological effect of sCD100 in the CNS. Thus, our results show that CD100 is a new important element in the deleterious T cell-neural cell cross talk during neuroinflammation and suggest its role in demyelination or absence of remyelination in neuroinflammatory diseases including multiple sclerosis and human T lymphotropic virus type 1-associated myelopathy.

To address the need for high sensitivity in gene expression profiling of small neural tissue samples ( approximately 100 ng total RNA), we compared a novel RT-PCR-IVT protocol using fluor-reverse pairs on inkjet oligonucleotide microarrays and an RT-IVT protocol using 33P labeling on nylon cDNA arrays. The comparison protocol was designed to evaluate these systems for sensitivity, specificity, reproducibility, and linearity. We developed parameters, thresholds, and testing conditions that could be used to differentiate various systems that spanned detection chemistry and instrumentation; probe number and selection criteria; and sample processing protocols. We concluded that the inkjet system had better performance in sensitivity, specificity, and reproducibility than the nylon system, and similar performance in linearity. Between these two platforms, the data indicates that the inkjet system would perform better for the transcriptional profiling of 100 ng total RNA samples for neuroscience studies.
Recent studies have shown that low-frequency repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation (rTMS) to the left dorsal premotor cortex has a lasting influence on the excitability of specific neuronal subpopulations in the ipsilateral primary motor hand area (M1(HAND)). Here we asked how these premotor to motor interactions are shaped by the intensity and frequency of rTMS and the orientation of the stimulating coil. We confirmed that premotor rTMS at 1 Hz and an intensity of 90% active motor threshold (AMT) produced a lasting decrease in corticospinal excitability probed with single-pulse TMS over the left M1(HAND). Reducing the intensity to 80% AMT increased paired-pulse excitability at an interstimulus interval (ISI) of 7 ms. Opposite effects occurred if rTMS was given at 5 Hz: at 90% AMT, corticospinal excitability increased; at 80% AMT, paired-pulse excitability at ISI = 7 ms decreased. No effects were seen if rTMS was applied at the same intensities to prefrontal or primary motor cortices. These findings indicate that the intensity of premotor rTMS determines the net effect of conditioning on distinct populations of neurones in the ipsilateral M1(HAND), but it is the frequency of rTMS that determines the direction of the induced change. By selecting the appropriate intensity and frequency, premotor rTMS allows to induce a predictable up- or down-regulation of the excitability in distinct neuronal circuits of human M1(HAND).

When we learn a new motor skill, such as playing an approaching tennis ball, both our sensors and the task possess variability. Our sensors provide imperfect information about the ball's velocity, so we can only estimate it. Combining information from multiple modalities can reduce the error in this estimate. On a longer time scale, not all velocities are a priori equally probable, and over the course of a match there will be a probability distribution of velocities. According to bayesian theory, an optimal estimate results from combining information about the distribution of velocities-the prior-with evidence from sensory feedback. As uncertainty increases, when playing in fog or at dusk, the system should increasingly rely on prior knowledge. To use a bayesian strategy, the brain would need to represent the prior distribution and the level of uncertainty in the sensory feedback. Here we control the statistical variations of a new sensorimotor task and manipulate the uncertainty of the sensory feedback. We show that subjects internally represent both the statistical distribution of the task and their sensory uncertainty, combining them in a manner consistent with a performance-optimizing bayesian process. The central nervous system therefore employs probabilistic models during sensorimotor learning.
The first reference to spinal cord injury is recorded in the Edwin Smith papyrus. Little was known of the function of the cord before Galen's experiments conducted in the second century AD. Galen described the protective coverings of the spinal cord: the bone, posterior longitudinal ligament, dura mater, and pia mater. He gave a detailed account of the gross anatomy of the spinal cord. During the medieval period (AD 700-1500) almost nothing of note was added to Galen's account of spinal cord structure. The first significant work on the spinal cord was that of Blasius in 1666. He was the first to differentiate the gray and white matter of the cord and demonstrated for the first time the origin of the anterior and posterior spinal nerve roots. The elucidation of the various tracts in the spinal cord actually began with demonstrations of pyramidal decussation by Mistichelli (1709) and Pourfoir du Petit (1710). Huber (1739) recorded the first detailed account of spinal roots and the denticulate ligaments. In 1809, Rolando described the substantia gelatinosa. The microtome, invented in 1824 by Stilling, proved to be one of the fundamental tools for the study of spinal cord anatomy. Stilling's technique involved slicing frozen or alcohol-hardened spinal cord into very thin sections and examining them unstained by using the naked eye or a microscope. With improvements in histological and experimental techniques, modern studies of spinal cord anatomy and function were initiated by Brown-Sequard. In 1846, he gave the first demonstration of the decussation of the sensory tracts. The location and direction of fiber tracts were uncovered by the experimental studies of Burdach (1826), Turck (1849), Clarke (1851), Lissauer (1855), Goll (1860), Flechsig (1876), and Gowers (1880). Bastian (1890) demonstrated that in complete transverse lesions of the spinal cord, reflexes below the level of the lesion are lost and muscle tone is abolished. Flatau (1894) observed the laminar nature of spinal pathways. The 20th century ushered in a new era in the evaluation of spinal cord function and localization; however, the total understanding of this remarkable organ remains elusive. Perhaps the next century will provide the answers to today's questions about spinal cord localization.
The development of alternative approaches to spine disorders marked an evolutionary change in the methods by which surgeons address diseases that affect the ventral portion of the spine. From the advent of spinal surgery until quite recently, physicians used posterior approaches almost exclusively for the treatment of all pathological processes. Surgeons subsequently became frustrated and disenchanted with outcomes of patients with anterior vertebral body disease when these procedures were applied. This sentiment is best reflected in the surgical thought related to Pott disease. In this paper, the authors chart the development of an influential approach to the spine that is designed to address these issues: the lateral extracavitary approach. They trace its origins to early precursor procedures and follow its use in current practice for the treatment of a variety of spinal disorders. They also examine its applications, role, and continued importance in the age of minimally invasive surgery.
There are few more devastating injuries that afflict man than those associated with spinal cord injury (SCI). The economic, psychological, and social impact are encompassing and enormous to the individual and society. During the last several years, there has been a renewed interest in the study of SCI, with the hope of finding a cure. It is appropriate, then, to examine the efforts accomplished throughout medical history. With this retrospective view, potential avenues for future treatment become more apparent and clear. As in the past, the integration of basic science and clinical innovation will create the path toward progress for treatment of this disease.
Neuropeptide Y (NPY) has prominent stimulatory effects on food intake in virtually all animals that have been studied. In mammals, the effect is primarily mediated by receptors Y1 and Y5, which seem to contribute to different aspects of feeding behavior in guinea pigs and rats/mice. Interestingly, differences in receptor distribution among mammalian species have been reported. To get a broader perspective on the role of Y5, we describe here studies of guinea pig (Cavia porcellus), a species which due to its phylogenetic position in the mammalian radiation is an interesting complement to previous studies in rat and mouse. Guinea pig brain sections were hybridized with two 35S-labeled oligonucleotides complementary to Y5 mRNA. The highest expression levels of Y5 mRNA were observed in the hippocampus and several hypothalamic and brain stem nuclei implicated in the regulation of feeding, such as the paraventricular, arcuate and ventromedial hypothalamic nuclei. This contrasts with autoradiography studies that detected low Y5-like binding in these areas, a discrepancy observed also in rat and human. Y5 mRNA expression was also seen in the striatum, in great contrast to mouse and rat. Taken together, these data show that Y5 mRNA distribution displays some interesting species differences, but that its expression in feeding centers seems to be essentially conserved among mammals, adding further support for an important role in food intake.
We have previously hypothesized that corticotropin-releasing hormone (CRH) is involved in the regulation of physiological waking. In this study, we tested the hypothesis that reduction of CRH peptide would reduce spontaneous wakefulness of rats. We administered intracerebroventricularly into rats at several circadian time points antisense or sense DNA oligodeoxynucleotides (ODNs) corresponding to the initiation codon of CRH mRNA and determined subsequent effects on wakefulness and sleep of the rat. Our results indicate that CRH antisense oligodeoxynucleotides reduce spontaneous wakefulness during the dark (active) period, but not during the light (rest) period of the light/dark cycle. The alterations in time spent awake are due to reduced wake bout numbers, rather than a change in wake bout duration. These reductions in wakefulness were mirrored by increases in slow-wave sleep, while rapid eye movement sleep was not affected. Corticosterone, used as an index of CRH in the hypothalamus, was reduced by CRH antisense oligodeoxynucleotides during the same time that spontaneous wakefulness was reduced, suggesting CRH peptide modulation as the mediator of this response. In contrast, CRH sense oligodeoxynucleotides did not alter any parameter of this study during either the dark or light period. These findings provide additional support for the hypothesis that CRH is involved in the regulation/modulation of wakefulness.
The neurotrophin receptor p75NTR is the coreceptor for Nogo receptor, mediating growth cone collapse in vitro by MAG, myelin oligodendrocyte glycoprotein (Omgp), and Nogo. Whether p75NTR plays any role in the failure of nerve regeneration in vivo is not known. Immunohistochemical data showed that p75NTR was expressed in only a very small subset of ascending sensory axons but not in any corticospinal axons in the dorsal column of either normal or injured spinal cord. Using p75NTR-deficient mice, we showed that the depletion of the functional p75NTR did not promote the regeneration of the descending corticospinal tract and ascending sensory neurons in the spinal cord 2 weeks after spinal cord injury. Local administration of p75NTR-Fc fusion molecule, the dominant-negative receptor to block the function of neurite outgrowth inhibitors, did not improve regeneration of ascending sensory neurons in the injured spinal cord. Our results suggest that p75NTR may not be a critical molecule mediating the function of myelin-associated inhibitory factors in vivo.
Vocal learning in songbirds provides an excellent model for sensorimotor learning in vertebrates, with an accessible, well-defined behavior and discrete neural substrate. The rich behavioral plasticity exhibited by songbirds, however, contrasts starkly with the scarcity of candidate cellular mechanisms. Here, we report for the first time on an activity-dependent form of synaptic plasticity in area X, a component of the song system required for song learning and song maintenance. In slice preparations of zebra finch area X, pairing of high-frequency presynaptic stimulation with postsynaptic depolarization induces Hebbian long-term potentiation (LTP) of the glutamatergic inputs to spiny neurons. This form of LTP requires activation of NMDA receptors and D1-like dopamine receptors. In addition, LTP is observed in birds as young as 47 d after hatching and also in adult birds but not in younger birds, providing evidence of developmental regulation of the onset of synaptic plasticity. These properties make this form of LTP the best known candidate mechanism for reinforcement-based vocal learning in juveniles and song maintenance in adult birds.
Understanding how an animal's ability to learn relates to neural activity or is altered by lesions, different attentional states, pharmacological interventions, or genetic manipulations are central questions in neuroscience. Although learning is a dynamic process, current analyses do not use dynamic estimation methods, require many trials across many animals to establish the occurrence of learning, and provide no consensus as how best to identify when learning has occurred. We develop a state-space model paradigm to characterize learning as the probability of a correct response as a function of trial number (learning curve). We compute the learning curve and its confidence intervals using a state-space smoothing algorithm and define the learning trial as the first trial on which there is reasonable certainty (&gt;0.95) that a subject performs better than chance for the balance of the experiment. For a range of simulated learning experiments, the smoothing algorithm estimated learning curves with smaller mean integrated squared error and identified the learning trials with greater reliability than commonly used methods. The smoothing algorithm tracked easily the rapid learning of a monkey during a single session of an association learning experiment and identified learning 2 to 4 d earlier than accepted criteria for a rat in a 47 d procedural learning experiment. Our state-space paradigm estimates learning curves for single animals, gives a precise definition of learning, and suggests a coherent statistical framework for the design and analysis of learning experiments that could reduce the number of animals and trials per animal that these studies require.
The inhibitory neurons of the thalamic reticular nucleus (TRN) contribute to the generation of widespread oscillations in the thalamocortical system. Some TRN neurons are interconnected by electrical synapses, and here we tested the possibility that electrical synapses mediate rhythmic synchrony in juvenile rats. Both the incidence and strength of electrical coupling between pairs of TRN neurons were a steep function of intersomatic distance, and coupling was absent at distances &gt;40 microm. Presynaptic spike bursts evoked much larger electrical postsynaptic potentials than did single presynaptic spikes. Activation of metabotropic glutamate receptors (mGluRs) with a bath-applied agonist or an endogenous ligand released during tetanic stimulation induced robust rhythms of the subthreshold membrane potential, with a mean frequency of approximately 10 Hz. In the absence of fast chemical synaptic transmission, subthreshold rhythms and the action potentials that they evoked were well synchronized between closely spaced, electrically coupled pairs; rhythms in noncoupled cells were not synchronized. The results suggest that electrical synapses can coordinate spindle-frequency rhythms among small clusters of mGluR-activated TRN cells.


In a group of 299 migraine patients and 306 control subjects, the association of the -308 G/A polymorphism in the tumor necrosis factor-alpha gene (TNFalpha) with the occurrence and clinical characteristics of migraine was tested. Homozygosity for the G allele was associated with an increased risk of migraine (odds ratio [OR] = 2.85, p &lt; 0.001). When the patients were divided into subgroups, the association was confirmed in patients affected by migraine without aura (OR = 3.30, p &lt; 0.001) but not in migraine with aura. These data suggest that the TNFalpha gene or a linked locus significantly modulates the risk for migraine.

Evidence from preclinical and clinical studies indicates that pulsatile stimulation of striatal dopamine receptors is a key factor in the development of levodopa-associated motor complications. Therefore, in the de novo patient it is believed that providing a more continuous dopaminergic stimulation from the start of antiparkinson therapy may prevent priming for motor fluctuations and dyskinesia. Conversely, in the more advanced patient who is already suffering from motor complications, it is believed that providing a more continuous stimulation may reverse the development of motor complications, enabling the patient to enjoy more stable benefits from therapy. All PD patients eventually require levodopa therapy during the course of their disease, and the benefits of providing continuous dopaminergic stimulation with levodopa have been clearly demonstrated in a number of studies. However, these studies have included the use of approaches such as SC infusion or intra-intestinal infusion. Because these are relatively difficult to handle and not very practical for the patient, compliance is generally low. Therefore, the development of a simple treatment regimen using an oral formulation of levodopa to provide a more continuous dopaminergic stimulation will represent a significant advance in antiparkinsonian pharmacotherapy.
The severity of dopamine depletion and the consequent pathophysiologic changes that occur in basal ganglia circuits determine the severity of parkinsonian signs. Restoring the dopamine deficit or the downstream physiologic abnormalities improves Parkinson's Disease (PD) main motor features and as a result, attenuates the short-duration response (SDR). Therefore, both the magnitude and duration of the motor response are a function of the degree of motor severity, which is primarily governed by the loss of tonic dopaminergic activity and disruption of basal ganglia homeostatic mechanisms among which the STN-GPe/GPi circuits play a fundamental role. As neurodegeneration advances, standard levodopa administration give rises to wider oscillations in striatal dopamine availability and &quot;pulsatile&quot; stimulation of striatal dopamine receptors becomes predominant. This induces molecular and physiologic changes that further accentuate and aggravate the SDR that sustains motor fluctuations. Treatments capable of providing and restoring more tonic and physiologic dopaminergic stimulation may avoid many of these abnormalities and lead to better clinical outcomes.
More than 30 years after its development, levodopa is still the most effective treatment for the symptomatic control of Parkinson's disease (PD). Although a number of therapies have been developed in an attempt to improve PD management, such as dopaminergic agonists and inhibitors of COMT and MAO-B, most patients still depend on levodopa alone because of its superior ability to control PD symptoms. The issue of toxicity has been raised by in vitro studies suggesting that levodopa might be toxic to dopaminergic neurons, but this has since been answered by in vivo studies finding no evidence of toxicity and possibly even neurotrophic-like effects. A more pressing concern regarding levodopa is its association with the development of motor complications after long-term use. Pulsatile dopaminergic stimulation as a result of erratic absorption and the short half-life of levodopa have been central issues in attempts to explain this occurrence. Evidence suggests that altering the delivery of levodopa to provide a more continuous supply of this drug to the brain may result in improved control of PD symptoms.
The association of Ca(2+)-activated K(+) channels with voltage-gated Ca(2+) channels at the presynaptic active zones of hair cells, photoreceptors, and neurons contributes to rapid repolarization of the membrane after excitation. Ca(2+) channels have been shown to bind to a large set of synaptic proteins, but the proteins interacting with Ca(2+)-activated K(+) channels remain unknown. Here, we report that the large-conductance Ca(2+)-activated K(+) channel of the chicken's cochlear hair cell interacts with beta-catenin. Yeast two-hybrid assays identified the S10 region of the K(+) channel's alpha-subunit and the ninth armadillo repeat and carboxyl terminus of beta-catenin as necessary for the interaction. An antiserum directed against the alpha-subunit specifically coprecipitated beta-catenin from brain synaptic proteins. beta-Catenin is known to associate with the synaptic protein Lin7/Velis/MALS, whose interaction partner Lin2/CASK also binds voltage-gated Ca(2+) channels. beta-Catenin may therefore provide a physical link between the two types of channels at the presynaptic active zone.
Rats that self-administered cocaine at unit doses between 0.75 and 12 micromol/kg with mean inter-injection intervals between approximately 2 and 18 min also reliably self-administered the cocaine analogue WIN 35,428 (beta-CFT; (-)-3 beta-(4-fluorophenyl)tropane-2 beta-carboxylic acid methyl ester) at unit doses between 0.1 and 1.6 micromol/kg with mean intervals between 10 and 116 min. The long inter-injection intervals of WIN 35,428 necessitated sessions of more than 12 h. The inter-injection intervals were regular and proportional to the unit dose, consistent with the satiety threshold model. Analysis of the mean intervals as a function of unit doses generated values for the mean satiety threshold of cocaine and WIN 35,428 of 6.10 and 0.87 micromol/kg, respectively. The mean t(1/2) for cocaine and WIN 35,428 were 11.1 and 69.4 min, respectively. The approximately 43-fold lower rate of consumption of WIN 35,428 relative to cocaine was a product of the seven-fold greater pharmacodynamic potency and the six-fold greater pharmacokinetic potency.
The molecular properties of the sulfonylurea receptor 2 (SUR2) subunits of K(ATP) channels expressed in urinary bladder were assessed by polymerase chain reaction (PCR). This showed that SUR2B exon 17- mRNA (72%) was predominant over the SUR2B exon 17+ splice variant (28%). The pharmacological properties of both of these isoforms stably expressed in mouse Ltk(-)cells (L-cells) with K(IR) 6.2 were determined by measuring changes in membrane potential responses evoked by K(+) channel openers using bis-(1,3-dibutylbarbituric acid) trimethine oxonol (DiBAC(4)(3)) fluorescence. The rank order potency of a variety of structurally distinct K(+) channel openers was found to be the same in both stable cell lines and compared well with guinea pig bladder cells. The potency of these compounds in the SUR2B exon 17- cells more closely resembled the potency measured in guinea pig bladder unlike the cell line containing the SUR2B exon 17+ subtype. Analysis of the displacement of [125I]A-312110 binding with the same K(+) channel openers to the SUR2B exon 17- cells showed excellent correlation to those measured in guinea pig bladder. This study supports the notion that K(ATP) channels containing SUR2B exon 17- represent a major splice variant expressed in urinary bladder smooth muscle.
Based on recent reports describing enhancing actions of arylalkylamines (fendiline [N-(3,3-diphenylpropyl)-alpha-methylbenzylamine] and prenylamine [N-(3,3-diphenylpropyl)-alpha-methylphenethylamine]), amino acids (L-phenylalanine, L-leucine and L-isoleucine), and dipeptides (L-Phe-Phe and L-Phe-Leu) on baclofen-induced responses in cortical slices, we have examined whether these compounds might act as positive allosteric modulators at GABA(B) receptors. Unlike the previously described allosteric GABA(B) receptor modulator CGP7930 (2,6-Di-tert-butyl-4-(3-hydroxy-2,2-dimethyl-propyl)-phenol), these compounds did not enhance GABA(B) receptor-mediated guanosine 5'-O-(3-thiotriphosphate) [GTP(gamma)35S] binding in native or recombinant cell membrane preparations. Similarly, in a competition binding assay using the antagonist radioligand [3H]CGP62349, CGP7930, but not the other compounds, enhanced the affinities of gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) for native GABA(B) receptors from rat brain cortex. Finally, in a cellular assay (Ca(2+) signaling in a recombinant cell line), CGP7930 was again the only compound found to enhance the GABA response. It is concluded that the arylalkylamines, amino acids and dipeptides tested do not act as allosteric modulators at native and recombinant GABA(B) receptors.
Somatosensory stimuli from the body to deep and intermediate strata of the superior colliculus (SC) are relayed from the dorsal column nuclei (DCN), gracile (GrN) and cuneate (CuN). Electrophysiological studies have shown that the somatosensory representation in SC is arranged into a map-like pattern. However, there is a lack of studies confirming a morphological correlate of such an organization. On the other hand, after neonatal enucleation in rodents, somatosensory inputs ascend from their normal termination territory in intermediate and deep collicular strata to invade the more dorsally located visual strata. However, the origin of these reactive afferents has not been specified. By using anterograde (biotinylated dextran amine 10,000; BDA) and retrograde (Fluoro-Gold; FG) tracers, we studied separately the connection from GrN and CuN to the intact and neonatally deafferented SC. GrN-collicular afferents were found to terminate mainly within the periphery of the caudomedial SC quadrant, whereas CuN-collicular fibers innervated primarily the lateral part of the rostrolateral and caudolateral collicular quadrants, in a way consistent with previously described functional data. Retrograde tracing experiments using FG injected in SC confirmed this topographical arrangement. Injections of BDA in GrN or CuN of neonatally enucleated rats showed that reactive fibers reaching superficial strata are only those CuN-collicular fibers innervating the caudolateral SC quadrant, where the forelimb is represented. The present results provide an anatomical substrate for the known somatotopic organization of tactile representation in SC and further reinforce the previous proposal that the plastic reorganization of DCN-collicular afferents following neonatal enucleation constitutes a functional compensatory response.
The ventral pallidum (VP) is a major intermediary in the prefrontal cortical circuitry regulating sensorimotor gating and locomotor behavior, both of which are potently modulated by catecholamines. The VP catecholaminergic innervation is derived from midbrain dopaminergic neurons that differ in expression levels of the dopamine transporter (DAT) and from brainstem noradrenergic neurons without DAT. The preferentially low level of DAT in dopaminergic terminals in the prefrontal cortex and in striatal regions projecting more extensively to the VP medial (VPm) compared with VP lateral (VPl) compartment suggests possible region-specific differences in VP axonal distribution of DAT. To test this hypothesis, we examined the electron microscopic localization of DAT and the catecholamine-synthesizing enzyme, tyrosine hydroxylase (TH), in the VPm and VPl of rat brain. In both regions, DAT and TH were localized primarily in small unmyelinated axons and morphologically heterogeneous axon terminals. DAT-immunogold particles were few in number, but mostly located on the plasma membrane. In contrast, TH immunoreactivity was distributed in the cytoplasm of individual profiles, many of which were without detectable DAT. In comparison with TH, the mean area density of DAT-labeled axons was low throughout the VP. The mean area density of DAT-immunogold axon terminals, however, was significantly higher in VPl than in VPm, whereas that of TH-labeled axons was higher in VPm than in VPl. This dissociation suggests that, compared to the VPl, the VPm receives the greatest input from catecholaminergic afferents that are either nondopaminergic or characterized by having low levels or less terminal distributions of DAT.
Several studies have demonstrated that estrogen modulates brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) mRNA and protein within the adult hippocampus and cortex. However, mechanisms underlying this regulation are unknown. Although an estrogen response element (ERE)-like sequence has been identified within the BDNF gene, such a classical mechanism of estrogen-induced transcriptional activation requires the colocalized expression of estrogen receptors within cells that produce BDNF. Developmental studies have demonstrated such a relationship, but to date no studies have examined colocalization of estrogen receptors and BDNF within the adult brain. By utilizing double-label immunohistochemistry for BDNF, estrogen receptor-alpha (ER-alpha), and estrogen receptor-beta (ER-beta), we found only sparse colocalization between ER-alpha and BDNF in the hypothalamus, amygdala, prelimbic cortex, and ventral hippocampus. Furthermore, ER-beta and BDNF do not colocalize in any brain region. Given the recent finding that cortical ER-beta is almost exclusively localized to parvalbumin-immunoreactive GABAergic neurons, we performed BDNF/parvalbumin double labeling and discovered that axons from cortical ER-beta-expressing inhibitory neurons terminate on BDNF-immunoreactive pyramidal cells. Collectively, these findings support a potential transsynaptic relationship between estrogen state and cortical BDNF: By directly modulating GABAergic interneurons, estrogen may indirectly influence the activity and expression of BDNF-producing cortical neurons.

Infection of poultry with highly pathogenic avian influenza virus (AIV) can be devastating in terms of flock morbidity and mortality, economic loss, and social disruption. The causative agent is confined to certain isolates of influenza A virus subtypes H5 and H7. Due to the potential of direct transfer of avian influenza to humans, continued research into rapid diagnostic tests for influenza is therefore necessary. A nucleic acid sequence-based amplification (NASBA) method was developed to detect a portion of the haemagglutinin gene of avian influenza A virus subtypes H5 and H7 irrespective of lineage. A further NASBA assay, based on the matrix gene, was able to detect examples of all known subtypes (H1-H15) of avian influenza virus. The entire nucleic acid isolation, amplification, and detection procedure was completed within 6h. The dynamic range of the three AIV assays was five to seven orders of magnitude. The assays were sensitive and highly specific, with no cross-reactivity to phylogenetically or clinically relevant viruses. The results of the three AIV NASBA assays correlated with those obtained by viral culture in embryonated fowl's eggs.
The endogenous glycolipid GM1 ganglioside plays a critical role in nociceptive neurons in regulating opioid receptor excitatory signaling demonstrated to mediate &quot;paradoxical&quot; morphine hyperalgesia and to contribute to opioid tolerance/dependence. Neuraminidase (sialidase) increases levels of GM1, a monosialoganglioside, in these neurons by enzymatic removal of sialic acid from abundant polysialylated gangliosides. In this study, acute treatment of mice with the neuraminidase inhibitor, oseltamivir enhanced morphine analgesia. Acute oseltamivir also reversed &quot;paradoxical&quot; hyperalgesia induced by an extremely low dose of morphine, unmasking potent analgesia. In chronic studies, co-administration of oseltamivir with morphine prevented and reversed the hyperalgesia associated with morphine tolerance. These results provide the first evidence indicating that treatment with a neuraminidase inhibitor, oseltamivir, blocks morphine's hyperalgesic effects by decreasing neuronal levels of GM1. The present study further implicates GM1 in modulating morphine analgesia and tolerance, via its effects on the underlying excitatory signaling of Gs-coupled opioid receptors. Finally, this work suggests a remarkable, previously unrecognized effect of oseltamivir-which is widely used clinically as an antiviral agent against influenza-on glycolipid regulation of opioid excitability functions in nociceptive neurons.
Extracellular pH regulates glycine receptors through an unknown mechanism. Here we demonstrate that acidic pH remarkably inhibited glycine-activated whole-cell currents in recombinant glycine alpha1 and alpha1beta receptors transiently expressed in human embryonic kidney 293 cells. The proton effect was voltage-independent and pharmacologically competed with glycine receptor agonist glycine and antagonist strychnine. Using site-directed mutagenesis, we have identified an N-terminal domain that is essential for proton-induced inhibition of glycine current. In alpha1 homomers, removal of the hydroxyl group by mutation of residue Thr-112 to Ala or Phe abolished inhibition of glycine currents by acidification. In contrast, mutation of Thr-112 to another hydroxylated residue (Tyr) produced receptors that retained partial proton sensitivity. In alpha1beta heteromers, a single mutation of the beta subunit T135A, which is homologous to alpha1 Thr-112, reduced proton sensitivity, whereas the double mutation alpha1(T112A)beta(T135A) almost completely eliminated the proton sensitivity. In addition, the mutation alpha1 H109A greatly reduced sensitivity to protons in homomeric alpha1 receptors. The results demonstrate that extracellular pH can regulate the function of glycine alpha1 and alpha1beta receptors. An extracellular domain consisting of Thr-112 and His-109 at the alpha1 subunit and Thr-135 at the beta subunit plays a critical role in determining proton modulation of glycine receptor function.
The postsynaptic density contains multiple protein complexes that together relay the presynaptic neurotransmitter input to the activation of the postsynaptic neuron. In the present study we took two independent proteome approaches for the characterization of the protein complement of the postsynaptic density, namely 1) two-dimensional gel electrophoresis separation of proteins in conjunction with mass spectrometry to identify the tryptic peptides of the protein spots and 2) isolation of the trypsin-digested sample that was labeled with isotope-coded affinity tag, followed by liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry for the partial separation and identification of the peptides, respectively. Functional grouping of the identified proteins indicates that the postsynaptic density is a structurally and functionally complex organelle that may be involved in a broad range of synaptic activities. These proteins include the receptors and ion channels for glutamate neurotransmission, proteins for maintenance and modulation of synaptic architecture, sorting and trafficking of membrane proteins, generation of anaerobic energy, scaffolding and signaling, local protein synthesis, and correct protein folding and breakdown of synaptic proteins. Together, these results imply that the postsynaptic density may have the ability to function (semi-) autonomously and may direct various cellular functions in order to integrate synaptic physiology.
GT-2331 is a potent histamine H(3) antagonist which has entered clinical trials. Efficient multigram syntheses of this compound and its enantiomer are described. The literature reports that GT-2331 is the dextrorotatory (+), more potent, enantiomer of 4-[2-(5,5-dimethylhex-1-ynyl)cyclopropyl]-1H-imidazole with the absolute configuration of (1R,2R)-1. However, we found that the dextrorotatory, more potent, enantiomer of 4-[2-(5,5-dimethylhex-1-ynyl)cyclopropyl]-1H-imidazole has the (1S,2S) absolute configuration. We suggest a reconsideration of the absolute configuration of GT-2331.
Oxidative stress plays an important role in the development of tissue damage following transient focal cerebral ischaemia. Glutathione is a central component in the antioxidant defence of cells. We have previously shown a close association between mitochondrial glutathione loss and cell death following middle cerebral artery (MCA) occlusion. Glutathione monoethyl ester increases cellular glutathione and is particularly effective in increasing the mitochondrial pool. In the present investigation, we infused glutathione monoethyl ester into the third ventricle during 2 h of MCA occlusion and 48 h of reperfusion. Infarct size was reduced from 46% of the total ischaemic hemisphere in saline-treated animals to 16% following ester treatment. Thus, glutathione monoethyl ester provides neuroprotection following transient focal cerebral ischaemia.
The impact of the insertion (I)/deletion (D) (I/D) polymorphism in the angiotensin 1-converting enzyme (ACE) gene on the extent of white matter myelin loss (ML) was investigated in four regions of the cerebral cortex in an autopsy-confirmed series of 93 patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD). The possible influence of APO E epsilon4 allele acting in concert with ACE D allele was assessed. The extent of ML did not differ between D/D, I/D and I/I genotype groups when data from all four brain regions were combined. However, separate analysis showed that the frontal and temporal cortex tended to be affected more severely by ML in patients with D/D genotype compared to those with I/D and I/I genotypes. Stratification according to APO E epsilon4 allele revealed a greater overall ML in patients bearing at least one copy of ACE D allele and one APO E epsilon4 allele, especially in individuals homozygous for both. The APO E epsilon4 allele may therefore act synergistically in patients with AD (and other subjects) bearing ACE D/D genotype to increase the risk of ML, perhaps through transient ischaemic episodes consequent upon poor cardiac output associated with coronary atherosclerosis in patients with the APO E epsilon4 allele.
The lasting effects of neuronal activity on brain development involve calcium-dependent gene expression. Using a strategy called transactivator trap, we cloned a calcium-responsive transactivator called CREST (for calcium-responsive transactivator). CREST is a SYT-related nuclear protein that interacts with adenosine 3',5'-monophosphate (cAMP) response element-binding protein (CREB)-binding protein (CBP) and is expressed in the developing brain. Mice that have a targeted disruption of the crest gene are viable but display defects in cortical and hippocampal dendrite development. Cortical neurons from crest mutant mice are compromised in calcium-dependent dendritic growth. Thus, calcium activation of CREST-mediated transcription helps regulate neuronal morphogenesis.


N-type calcium channels are critical for pain transduction. Inhibitors of these channels are powerful analgesics, but clinical use of current N-type blockers remains limited by undesirable actions in other regions of the nervous system. We now demonstrate that a unique splice isoform of the N-type channel is restricted exclusively to dorsal root ganglia. By a combination of functional and molecular analyses at the single-cell level, we show that the DRG-specific exon, e37a, is preferentially present in Ca(V)2.2 mRNAs expressed in neurons that contain nociceptive markers, VR1 and Na(V)1.8. Cell-specific inclusion of exon 37a correlates closely with significantly larger N-type currents in nociceptive neurons. This unique splice isoform of the N-type channel could represent a novel target for pain management.
Synaptotagmins 1 and 7 are candidate Ca(2+) sensors for exocytosis localized to synaptic vesicles and plasma membranes, respectively. We now show that the N-terminal intraluminal sequence of synaptotagmin 1, when transplanted onto synaptotagmin 7, redirects synaptotagmin 7 from the plasma membrane to secretory vesicles. Conversely, mutation of the N-terminal N-glycosylation site of synaptotagmin 1 redirects synaptotagmin 1 from vesicles to the plasma membrane. In cultured hippocampal neurons, the plasma membrane-localized mutant of synaptotagmin 1 suppressed the readily releasable pool of synaptic vesicles, whereas wild-type synaptotagmin 1 did not. In addition to the intraluminal N-glycosylation site, the cytoplasmic C(2) domains of synaptotagmin 1 were required for correct targeting but could be functionally replaced by the C(2) domains of synaptotagmin 7. Our data suggest that the intravesicular N-glycosylation site of synaptotagmin 1 collaborates with its cytoplasmic C(2) domains in directing synaptotagmin 1 to synaptic vesicles via a novel N-glycosylation-dependent mechanism.
Differential adhesion between migrating neurons and transient radial glial fibers enables the deployment of neurons into appropriate layers in the developing cerebral cortex. The identity of radial glial signals that regulate the termination of migration remains unclear. Here, we identified a radial glial surface antigen, SPARC (secreted protein acidic and rich in cysteine)-like 1, distributed predominantly in radial glial fibers passing through the upper strata of the cortical plate (CP) where neurons end their migration. Neuronal migration and adhesion assays indicate that SPARC-like 1 functions to terminate neuronal migration by reducing the adhesivity of neurons at the top of the CP. Cortical neurons fail to achieve appropriate positions in the absence of SPARC-like 1 function in vivo. Together, these data suggest that antiadhesive signaling via SPARC-like 1 on radial glial cell surfaces may enable neurons to recognize the end of migration in the developing cerebral cortex.
The relay of pain fibers from the spinal and medullary dorsal horn in the thalamus has become a controversial issue. This study analyzed the relationship of fibers arising in lamina I to nuclei in and around the caudal pole of the ventral posterior nuclear complex and especially to a zone of calbindin-dense immunoreactivity (VMpo) identified by some authors as the sole thalamic relay for these fibers. We show that the densest zone of calbindin immunoreactivity is part of a more extensive, calbindin-immunoreactive region that lies well within the medial tip of the ventral posterior medial nucleus (VPM), as delineated by other staining methods, and prove that the use of different anti-calbindin antibodies cannot account for differences in interpretations of the organization of the posterior thalamic region. By combining immunocytochemical staining with anterograde tracing from injections involving lamina I, we demonstrate widespread fiber terminations that are not restricted to the calbindin-rich medial tip of VPM and show that the lamina I arising fibers are not themselves calbindin immunoreactive. This study disproves the existence of VMpo as an independent thalamic pain nucleus or as a specific relay in the ascending pain system.
LRP6 mutant mice have generalized defects in the Wnt/beta-catenin signaling pathway because of the crucial function of LRP6 as a Wnt signaling co-receptor (Pinson et al., 2000). We examined the hippocampal phenotype of single LRP6 mutant mice as well as LRP6/Lef1 double mutant mice. LRP6 mutants had reduced production of dentate granule neurons and abnormalities of the radial glial scaffolding in the forming dentate gyrus. These defects were more severe with the addition of a single Lef1 null allele to an LRP6 null background. Pyramidal cell fields were unaffected in the LRP6, Lef1, or double mutants. The dentate defects were accompanied by decreased numbers of mitotic precursors in the migratory pathway to the dentate and in the displaced proliferative zone in the dentate itself. At earlier gestational ages, there was a reduction in the number of dentate granule cell progenitors in the dentate ventricular zone before the emigration of the earliest differentiated granule neurons and precursors to form the dentate anlage.
The formation and subsequent elimination of electrical coupling between neurons has been demonstrated in many developing vertebrate and invertebrate nervous systems. The relationship between the disappearance of electrical synaptic connectivity and the appearance of chemical neurotransmission is not well understood. We report here that identified motoneurons from the snail Helisoma formed transient electrical and chemical connections during regeneration both in vivo and in vitro. Electrical connections that formed in vivo were strongest by day 2 and no longer detectable by day 7. During elimination of this electrical connection, an inhibitory chemical connection from 110 onto 19 formed. This sequence of synaptic development was recapitulated in cell culture with a similar time course. The relationship between the appearance of transient electrical coupling and its possible effects on the subsequent chemical synaptogenesis were examined by reducing transient intercellular coupling. Trophic factor-deprived medium resulted in a 66% reduction in coupling coefficient. In these conditions, the unidirectional chemical connection formed readily; in contrast, chemical synaptogenesis was delayed in cell pairs exposed to trophic factors where transient electrical coupling was strong. Dye coupling and synaptic vesicle cycling studies supported electrophysiological results. Exposure to cholinergic antagonists, curare and hexamethonium bromide, which block chemical neurotransmission in these synapses, resulted in prolonged maintenance of the electrical connection. These studies demonstrated an inverse relationship between chemical and electrical connectivity at early stages of synaptic development and suggest a dynamic interaction between these forms of neuronal communication as adult neural networks are constructed or regenerated.
Cerebellar Purkinje cells (PCs) express two glutamate transporters, EAAC1 (EAAT3) and EAAT4; however, their relative contribution to the uptake of glutamate at synapses is not known. We found that glutamate transporter currents recorded at climbing fiber (CF)-PC synapses are absent in mice lacking EAAT4 but unchanged in mice lacking EAAC1, indicating that EAAT4 is preferentially involved in clearing glutamate from CF synapses. However, comparison of CF synaptic currents between wild-type and transporter knock-out mice revealed that ionotropic glutamate receptors are responsible for &gt;40% of the current previously attributed to transporters, indicating that PCs remove &lt;10% of the glutamate released by the CF. The receptors responsible for the nontransporter component accounted for 5% of the CF EPSC, had a slower time course and lower occupancy than AMPA receptors at CF synapses, and exhibited pharmacological properties consistent with kainate receptors. In GluR5 knock-out mice, this current was dramatically reduced, indicating that CF excitation of PCs involves two distinct classes of ionotropic glutamate receptors, AMPA receptors and GluR5-containing kainate receptors.
Voltage-gated tetrodotoxin-sensitive sodium channels of Purkinje neurons produce &quot;resurgent&quot; current with repolarization, which results from relief of an open-channel block that terminates current flow at positive potentials. The associated recovery of sodium channels from inactivation is thought to facilitate the rapid firing patterns characteristic of Purkinje neurons. Resurgent current appears to depend primarily on NaV1.6 alpha subunits, because it is greatly reduced in &quot;med&quot; mutant mice that lack NaV1.6. To identify factors that regulate the susceptibility of alpha subunits to open-channel block, we voltage clamped wild-type and med Purkinje neurons before and after slowing conventional inactivation with beta-pompilidotoxin (beta-PMTX). beta-PMTX increased resurgent current in wild-type neurons and induced resurgent current in med neurons. In med cells, the resurgent component of beta-PMTX-modified sodium currents could be selectively abolished by application of intracellular alkaline phosphatase, suggesting that, like in NaV1.6-expressing cells, the open-channel block of NaV1.1 and NaV1.2 subunits is regulated by constitutive phosphorylation. These results indicate that the endogenous blocker exists independently of NaV1.6 expression, and conventional inactivation regulates resurgent current by controlling the extent of open-channel block. In Purkinje cells, therefore, the relatively slow conventional inactivation kinetics of NaV1.6 appear well adapted to carry resurgent current. Nevertheless, NaV1.6 is not unique in its susceptibility to open-channel block, because under appropriate conditions, the non-NaV1.6 subunits can produce robust resurgent currents.
To determine the nature of dopamine modulation of dendritic Ca2+ signaling in layers V-VI prefrontal cortex (PFC) neurons, whole-cell Ca2+ potentials were evoked after blockade of Na+ and K+ channels. Soma-dendritic Ca2+ spikes evoked by suprathreshold depolarizing pulses, which could be terminated by superimposed brief intrasomatic hyperpolarizing pulses, are blocked by the L-type Ca2+ channel antagonist nimodipine (1 microM). The D1/D5 receptor agonist dihydrexidine (DHX) (0.01-10 microM; 5 min) or R-(+)SKF81291 (10 microM) induced a prolonged (&gt;30 min) dose-dependent peak suppression of these Ca2+ spikes. This effect was dependent on [Ca2+]i- and protein kinase C (PKC)-dependent mechanisms because [Ca2+]i chelation by BAPTA or inhibition of PKC by bisindolymaleimide (BiM1), but not inhibition of [Ca2+]i release with heparin or Xestospongin C, prevented the D1-mediated suppression of Ca2+ spikes. Depolarizing pulses subthreshold to activating a Ca2+ spike evoked a nimodipine-sensitive Ca2+ &quot;hump&quot; potential. D1/D5 stimulation induced an N-[2-((o-bromocinamyl)amino)ethyl]-5-isoquinolinesulfonamide (H-89)- or internal PKA inhibitory peptide[5-24]-sensitive (PKA-dependent) transient (approximately 7 min) potentiation of the hump potential to full Ca2+ spike firing. Furthermore, application of DHX in the presence of the PKC inhibitor BiM1 or internal PKC inhibitory peptide[19-36] resulted in persistent firing of full Ca2+ spike bursts, suggesting that a D1/D5-PKA mechanism switches subthreshold Ca2+ hump potential to fire full Ca2+ spikes, which are eventually turned off by a D1/D5-Ca2+-dependent PKC mechanism. This depolarizing state-dependent, D1/D5-activated, bi-directional switching of soma-dendritic L-type Ca2+ channels via PKA-dependent potentiation and PKC-dependent suppression may provide spatiotemporal regulation of synaptic integration and plasticity in PFC.
The spatial character of our reaching movements is extremely sensitive to potential obstacles in the workspace. We recently found that this sensitivity was retained by most patients with left visual neglect when reaching between two objects, despite the fact that they tended to ignore the leftward object when asked to bisect the space between them. This raises the possibility that obstacle avoidance does not require a conscious awareness of the obstacle avoided. We have now tested this hypothesis in a patient with visual extinction following right temporoparietal damage. Extinction is an attentional disorder in which patients fail to report stimuli on the side of space opposite a brain lesion under conditions of bilateral stimulation. Our patient avoided obstacles during reaching, to exactly the same degree, regardless of whether he was able to report their presence. This implicit processing of object location, which may depend on spared superior parietal-lobe pathways, demonstrates that conscious awareness is not necessary for normal obstacle avoidance.
Diverse physiological and behavioural mechanisms allow animals to effectively deal with stressors, but chronic activation of the stress axis can have severe consequences. We explored the effects of chronic social stress on agonistic behaviour and gall bladder function, a critical but widely neglected component of stress-induced gastrointestinal dysfunction. Prolonged cohabitation with dominant individuals elicited behavioural modifications and dramatically increased bile retention in subordinate convict cichlid fish (Archocentrus nigrofasciatum). The key predictor of gall bladder hypertrophy was social subordination rather than status-related differences in food intake or body size. Stress-induced inhibition of gall bladder emptying could affect energy assimilation such that subordinate animals would not be able to effectively convert energy-rich food into mass gain. These results parallel changes in gall bladder function preceding cholesterol gallstone formation in humans and other mammals. Thus, social stress may be an important diagnostic criterion in understanding pathologies associated with gall bladder dysfunction.
The anterolateral group of the bed nuclei of the stria terminalis (BSTalg) contains four distinct cell groups embedded within an undifferentiated anterolateral area (BSTal) that architectonically resembles a subjacent subcommissural zone (BSTsc). The overall distributions of axonal projections from various regions of the BSTal and from the BSTsc were determined with the Phaseolus vulgaris-leucoagglutinin (PHAL) anterograde tracer method and found to be identical. The BSTal and BSTsc share dense bidirectional connections, and also project heavily within the BST to the rhomboid and fusiform nuclei and the anteroventral and anterodorsal areas. They project less densely to the juxtacapsular, oval, magnocellular, ventral, and interfascicular BST nuclei. Outside the BST, brain areas receiving strong to moderate inputs from the BSTal and BSTsc fall into several functional groups: somatomotor system (nucleus accumbens, substantia innominata, ventral tegmental area, and retrorubral area and adjacent midbrain reticular nucleus), central autonomic control system (central amygdalar nucleus, dorsal lateral hypothalamic area, ventrolateral periaqueductal gray, parabrachial nucleus, and nucleus of the solitary tract), neuroendocrine system (paraventricular and supraoptic nuclei, hypothalamic visceromotor pattern generator network), and thalamocortical feedback loops (midline, medial, and intralaminar nuclei). The results indicate that the BSTal and BSTsc are parts of the same cell group (dorsal and ventral to the anterior commissure), which plays a role in coordinating visceral and somatic motor responses (during ingestive behaviors, for example), especially in response to noxious stimuli (learned anorexia associated with noxious stimuli). BSTal projections are distinct from those of the adjacent juxtacapsular, oval, fusiform, and rhomboid nuclei.
Basal and forced swimming (FS) stress-induced release of noradrenaline (NA) and serotonin (5-HT) were determined by in vivo microdialysis in the ventral hippocampus of mice overexpressing galanin under the platelet-derived growth factor B promoter (GalOE/P) or under the dopamine beta-hydroxylase promoter (GalOE/D) (only NA). WT mice served as controls. Intraventricular infusion of galanin significantly reduced basal extracellular NA in WT mice and in GalOE/P mice (albeit less so). Microdialysis sampling during a 10-min FS showed that NA and 5-HT release were elevated to 213% and 156%, respectively, in the GalOE/P group, whereas in the WT group the increases were only 127% and 119%, respectively. The second (repeated) 10-min FS (RFS) caused a marked enhancement of NA and 5-HT release in the GalOE/P mice to 344% and 275%, respectively. However, the RFS caused only a 192% increase of extracellular NA levels in the GalOE/D mice. Pretreatment with the putative peptidergic galanin receptor antagonist M35 almost completely blocked the elevation of NA and 5-HT levels in the GalOE/P after RFS. These results suggest that the NA and 5-HT hippocampal afferents in GalOE/P mice are hypersensitive to both conditioned and unconditioned stressful stimuli, such as FS, and that this effect is mediated by galanin receptors. The present findings support a role of galanin in the regulation of release of NA and 5-HT, two neurotransmitters involved in mood control.

During premetamorphic stages, Xenopus laevis tadpoles expressing either a dominant-negative thyroid hormone (TH) receptor or a type-III iodothyronine deiodinase transgene in the nervous system have reduced TH-induced proliferation in the spinal cord and produce fewer hindlimb-innervating motorneurons. During prometamorphic stages, innervation of the hindlimbs is reduced, and few functional neuromuscular connections are formed. By metamorphic climax, limb movement is impaired, ranging from uncoordinated leg swimming to complete quadriplegia. This phenotype is due to transgene action in the tadpole spinal cord. The requirement of TH for neurogenesis during premetamorphosis is the earliest TH-regulated process reported to date in the sequence of metamorphic changes in anurans. The muscle formed during limb growth was previously shown to be a direct target of TH control. Here, we show that the same is true of the development of spinal cord cells that innervate the limbs.
Age is a risk factor for the development of many neurological disorders, including alcohol-related neurological disorders. A rodent model of Wernicke-Korsakoff Syndrome (WKS), acute pyrithiamine-induced thiamine deficiency (PTD), produces diencephalic damage and impairments of memory similar to what is seen in WKS patients. Advanced age increases the vulnerability to the cascade of acute and some chronic neurological events caused by PTD treatment. Interactions between PTD treatment and age at the time of treatment (3, 10, or 21 months), in addition to the effects of an increased recovery period, were examined relative to spatial memory impairment and neuropathology in Fischer 344 rats. Although acute neurological disturbances and medial thalamic brain lesions were more prevalent in middle-aged and senescent rats exposed to PTD treatment, relative to young rats, behavioral data did not support the view that PTD and aging have synergistic effects. In addition, both advanced age and PTD treatment result in a loss of basal forebrain cholinergic neurons, though there was no interaction. Despite the fact that no convincing evidence was found for an effect of extended recovery time on neuropathology measures, young rats given an extensive recovery period displayed less working memory impairment. In summary, these data provide evidence for an increased susceptibility of the aged rat to the acute neurological consequences and diencephalic pathology associated with PTD treatment and indicated a similar vulnerability of the middle-aged rat. However, the synergistic interaction between aging and PTD treatment in thalamic tissue loss did not express behaviorally.
A series of experiments are described in which magnitude estimates of the perceived size of steel balls were made when the balls were actively rolled between the fingertip and several other body sites (thumb, thenar eminence, forearm). This movement, called scripting, involves actively moving an object by a touching surface over another surface of the body which is passively being touched. We define this active/passive activity as &quot;intra-active touch&quot; and the results show that the perceptual size of the balls is dependent upon the body part passively being activated. An additional series of experiments decoupled the actively generated and passively received tactile information by having subjects either perform the scripting on another individual's body site or by having the other individual roll the balls on the subject's various sites. The latter experiments showed that the passive body can contribute to the overall impression of the size of the balls, but only when the intra-active touching involved the glabrous skin of the hands. Intra-active touch between the active finger and the passively touched hairy skin of the forearm showed no effect of the touched surface on the perceived size of the balls. The results suggest that the mechanisms of intra-active touch are different when glabrous skin activates glabrous skin than when glabrous skin activates hairy skin.
Feeding and drinking typically involve both appetitive and consummatory behaviors. Appetitive behaviors include those behaviors produced by an animal prior to the actual consumption, such as approach movements, whereas consummatory behaviors (such as licking and chewing) are involved in the actual consumption of food. The present research compared the gustatory conditioning effects of bacterial lipopolysaccharide (LPS) and lithium chloride (LiCl) in two different paradigms, conditioned taste avoidance and conditioned taste aversion which differentially affect the appetitive and consummatory components of feeding. Male rats were implanted with intraoral cannulae and habituated to a water deprivation schedule and afterwards received two conditioning days (Days 1 and 4). Each conditioning day consisted of 1 h access to a novel sucrose solution (0.3 M) immediately followed by a systemic injection of LPS (200 microg/kg), LiCl (0.15 M, 3 meq) or NaCl vehicle. Conditioned taste aversion was assessed using the taste reactivity test on Day 7, where orofacial and somatic responses were videotaped and analyzed during 3 brief (1 min) exposures to the sucrose solution. Conditioned taste avoidance was assessed on Days 8 and 9 using a two-bottle preference test (sucrose versus water). Animals conditioned with LiCl displayed typical aversive-like responses in the taste reactivity paradigm evidenced by significant reductions in positive ingestive responses (P&lt;0.05) and an increase in active aversive responses (P&lt;0.05) relative to controls. Furthermore, LiCl treatment resulted in conditioned avoidance of sucrose in the two-bottle preference test characterized by a decreased sucrose preference (P&lt;0.05). Conditioning with LPS produced a reduced sucrose preference (P&lt;0.05) relative to controls, comparable to the avoidance seen in LiCl-treated rats. In contrast, conditioning with LPS resulted in similar positive ingestive responses to intraorally infused sucrose as seen in controls. The present results demonstrate that LPS treatment produces conditioned avoidance but not aversion and suggest that LPS can selectively condition the appetitive aspects of feeding whereas the consummatory behaviors remain unaffected.
The maintenance of long-term potentiation (LTP) depends on altered gene expression. Previously, we found the expression of neuronal growth associated protein SCG10, which is involved in neurite outgrowth and neural regeneration, was up-regulated by LTP induction in the rat hippocampal Schaffer-collateral CA1 pathway. Here we studied the temporal expression pattern of SCG10 mRNA after LTP induction using permanently implanted electrodes in the same CA1 pathway. The real-time RT-PCR showed that both SCG10 mRNA 1 and 2 kb forms were increased at the 3 h, but not at 1 or 24 h. In situ hybridization revealed an increase of SCG10 2 kb mRNA level in ipsilateral CA3 and CA1 areas, but not their contralateral counterparts or either side of dentate gyrus. These results suggest that SCG10 may play a role in the maintenance of synaptic plasticity through a transient regulation of microtubule dynamics, which facilitates the structural remodeling of the presynaptic element during the consolidation period.
The gamma-aminobutyric acid type A (GABA(A)) receptor is an important pharmacological target of ethanol. The effect of ethanol withdrawal on the expression of the alpha(2) subunit of this receptor was examined with rat cerebellar granule cells in primary culture. Long-term exposure of these cells to ethanol (100 mM, 5 days) did not affect the abundance of the mRNA for the alpha(2) subunit, as revealed by an RNase protection assay. In contrast, subsequent ethanol withdrawal for 3 h induced a marked increase in the amount of this mRNA (2.6-fold) as well as in that of the encoded polypeptide (2.2-fold), the latter revealed by immunoblot analysis. Exposure of the cells to gamma-hydroxybutyric acid (100 mM) during ethanol withdrawal prevented the increase in the amounts of both the alpha(2) mRNA and polypeptide, whereas similar treatment with diazepam (10 microM) blocked the increase in the abundance of the alpha(2) polypeptide but not that in the amount of the alpha(2) mRNA. The effect of gamma-hydroxybutyric acid was not blocked by the competitive GABA(B) receptor antagonist SCH 50911(10 microM). Given that the alpha(2) subunit of the GABA(A) receptor mediates the anxiolytic action of benzodiazepines, its up-regulation during discontinuation of long-term ethanol exposure might be relevant to the therapeutic efficacy of these drugs in the treatment of anxiety associated with ethanol withdrawal.
Translin and its partner protein, Trax, are components of an RNA binding complex that has been implicated in suppressing translation of several mRNAs by binding to Y and H cis elements contained in these transcripts. However, it is unclear which features of these elements are critical for conferring high affinity binding to the Translin/Trax complex, information that might be useful in identifying other candidate transcripts targeted by this complex. To help clarify this issue, we have assessed the effect of truncating or mutating a segment of the 3'UTR of the protamine-2 transcript which contains both Y and H elements and binds to this complex with high affinity. Our results indicate that high affinity binding to this segment is preserved following extensive mutation of the Y and H elements as long as clusters of G residues are retained. Thus, our findings indicate that the Translin/Trax complex recognizes clusters of G residues rather than RNA sequences that closely match the primary sequence of the Y and H elements. This revised view of the cis elements recognized by the Translin/Trax complex may be useful in future studies aimed at identifying endogenous RNA species targeted by this complex.
Ahead of Print article withdrawn by publisher.
By using direct immunocytochemistry of BrU incorporated to RNA in the nuclei, we evaluated the effect of mutant huntingtin and ataxin-1 on general transcription in primary cortical and cerebellar neurons. Our quantitative analyses clearly showed that these mutant polyglutamine disease proteins repress general transcription. In addition, we found that general transcription level was almost similar in inclusion body-positive and -negative neurons. The result suggests that presence of inclusion body is not essential for repressing general transcription in contrast to its reported role for suppressing specific gene transcription in the polyglutamine disease pathology.
After ipsilateral injections of biotinylated dextran amine (BDA) into the Klliker-Fuse (KF) nucleus and cholera toxin B subunit (CTb) into the ventral horn in C4 to C5 segments of the spinal cord, an overlapping distribution of BDA-labeled axon terminals and CTb-labeled neurons was found in the rostral ventral respiratory group (rVRG) region ipsilateral to the injection sites. After ipsilateral injections of BDA into the KF and Fluoro-Gold (FG) into the ventral horn in C4 to C5 segments of the spinal cord, BDA-labeled axons were found to make asymmetrical synapses with the somata and dendrites of FG-labeled neurons within the neuropil of the rVRG region. Using retrograde tracing combined with immunohistochemistry for phosphate-activated glutaminase (PAG), we observed that as many as 72% of the rVRG neurons projecting to the PhN were immunoreactive for PAG and that approximately 62% and 75% of the KF neurons projecting respectively to the rVRG region and PhN contain PAG immunoreactivity. Using anterograde tracing combined with immunohistochemistry for vesicular glutamate transporter 2 (VGluT2), we further demonstrated that the KF axon terminals in the rVRG and PhN regions as well as the rVRG axon terminals in the PhN region contain VGluT2 immunoreactivity. The present results suggest that the glutamatergic pathways from the KF to the PhN directly and indirectly via the rVRG region may exist and underlie the inspiratory responses that are elicited by activation of the KF neurons.
Lesions of the hippocampus attenuate acquisition of the tone-shock contingency in Trace, but not in Delay fear conditioning. These findings suggest that hippocampal regions are differentially involved in these two forms of fear conditioning. The present study was aimed at testing the hypothesis that hippocampal neurons are differentially activated during acquisition and retrieval of Delay versus Trace fear conditioning. Male C57BL/6J mice were exposed to eight tone-shock pairings (in Trace conditioning the shock came 30 s after the tone), and tested for immobility upon reexposure to contextual stimuli or to one tone presentation. Ten brain regions were analyzed by immunohistochemistry for inducible transcription factors (ITF) c-Fos and Zif268 1.5 h after training, context test or tone test. Acquisition of both Delay and Trace fear conditioning produced significant induction of c-Fos in the majority of brain regions analyzed compared to naive control animals. Importantly, Delay fear conditioning caused a higher increase of c-Fos expression in the CA3 region of the hippocampus compared to Trace-trained animals. After cue reexposure, Zif268 levels in the dentate gyrus of the hippocampus were higher in Trace-conditioned than in Delay-conditioned animals. In addition, reexposure-related c-Fos expression in the anterior cingulate cortex was significantly higher in Delay-conditioned animals than in Trace-conditioned animals. The present study confirms differential activation of hippocampal subregions in Delay and Trace fear conditioning.
Hypothermia provides neuroprotection in virtually all animal models of ischemia, including adult stroke models and the neonatal hypoxic-ischemic (HI) model. In these studies, brief periods of hypothermia are examined in a neonatal model employing transient focal ischemia in a 7-day-old rat pup. Pups underwent permanent middle cerebral artery (MCA) occlusion coupled with a temporary (1 h) occlusion of the ipsilateral common carotid artery (CCA). This study included five treatment groups: (1) normothermic (Normo)-brain temperature was maintained at 37 degrees C; (2) intraischemic hypothermia (IntraH)-28 degrees C during the 1-h ischemic period only; (3) postischemic hypothermia (PostH)-28 degrees C for the second hour of reperfusion only; (4) late-onset postischemic hypothermia (LPostH) cooled to 28 degrees C for the fifth and sixth hours of reperfusion only; and (5) Shams. After various times (3 days-6 weeks), the lesion was assessed using 2,3,5-triphenyltetrazolium chloride (TTC) or hematoxylin and eosin (H&amp;E) stains. Intraischemic hypothermia resulted in significant protection in terms of survival, lesion size, and histology. Postischemic hypothermia was not effective in reducing lesion size early after ischemia, but significantly reduced the eventual long-term damage (2-6 weeks). Late-onset postischemic hypothermia did not reduce infarct volume. Therefore, both intraischemic and postischemic hypothermia provided neuroprotection in the neonatal rat, but with different effects on the degenerative time course. While there were no observable differences in simple behaviors or growth, all hypothermic conditions significantly reduced mortality rates. While the protection resulting from intraischemic hypothermia is similar to what is observed in other models, the degree of long-term ischemic protection observed after 1 h of postischemic hypothermia was remarkable and distinct from what has been observed in other adult or neonatal models.
We tested whether the stimulation of acupoints in the same spinal segments could induce different central responses with functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) study. Stimulation of acupoints ST36/SP6 (Zusanli/Sanyinjiao) or GB34/BL57 (Yanglingquan/Chengshan) both activated primary and secondary somatosensory area, insula, ventral thalamus, parietal Brodmann Area 40, temporal lobe, putamen, and cerebellum, while de-activated amygdala. Nevertheless, ST36/SP6 stimulation specifically activated orbital frontal cortex and de-activated hippocampus. Alternatively, stimulation of GB34/BL57 activated dorsal thalamus and inhibited those of primary motor area and premotor cortex. Thus, stimulation of acupoints in the same spinal segments induced distinct though overlapped cerebral response patterns, which indicated the existence of acupoint specificity.
In order to shed more light on the neural correlates of human visual awareness, event-related potentials (ERPs) were recorded in a perceptual threshold experiment. The masked stimuli (line-drawings of coherent, familiar objects and scrambled, meaningless non-objects) were presented below, near, and above the subjective perceptual threshold. A prominent negative ERP deflection, peaking around 260-270 ms from stimulus onset, was observed only for the stimuli reaching subjective visual awareness. The results indicate a direct relationship between the crossing of the subjective threshold and this negative ERP deflection. A similar ERP response called 'visual awareness negativity' (VAN) has been observed in recent studies, using completely different stimulus manipulations (change blindness, reduced contrast stimuli). Hence, VAN appears to be a general electrophysiological correlate of visual awareness, observed in any experimental design that contrasts consciously perceived vs. unperceived visual stimuli.
We report two experiments in which non-informative vision of the finger enhanced tactile acuity on the fingertip. The right index finger was passively lifted to contact a grating. Twelve participants judged orientations of tactile gratings while viewing either the fingertip, or a neutral object presented via a mirror at the fingertip's location. In Expt. 1, tactile orientation discrimination for near-threshold gratings was improved when viewing the fingertip, compared to viewing the neutral object. Experiment 2 examined the temporal persistence of this effect, and found significant visual-tactile enhancement when a dark interval of up to 10 s intervened between viewing the finger and tactile stimulation. These results suggest that viewing the body modulates the neural circuitry of primary somatosensory cortex, outlasting visual inputs.
Perception results from ongoing interactions between stimulus-driven visual processes and cognitive context. These reciprocal relations are emphasized when a visual stimulus is degraded, forcing the perceiver to fill the missing information in, based on internal representations. The neural mechanisms by which internal representations facilitate visual perception are still unclear. Here we investigated the role of EEG oscillations in the gamma band, thought to reflect the elaboration of internal visual representations, in the experience-based perception of visual scenes. Twelve subjects were trained with degraded images of natural scenes. EEG was recorded while they performed a detection task on trained and untrained degraded stimuli. Non-phase-locked gamma band responses in a large frequency spectrum (55-85 Hz) were observed around 200 ms post-stimulus onset at posterior sites, and were larger when subjects reported an accurate perception based on previous experience. These results suggest that mid-latency gamma oscillations in the visual cortex underlie the experience-based perception of visual scenes.



Huntington's disease (HD) is an autosomal dominant disorder in which there is progressive neurodegeneration producing motor, cognitive and psychiatric symptoms. HD is caused by a trinucleotide (CAG) repeat mutation, encoding an expanded polyglutamine tract in the huntingtin protein. At least eight other neurodegenerative diseases are caused by CAG/glutamine repeat expansions in different genes. Recent evidence suggests that environmental factors can modify the onset and progression of Huntington's disease and possibly other neurodegenerative disorders. This review outlines possible molecular and cellular mechanisms mediating the polyglutamine-induced toxic 'gain of function' and associated gene-environment interactions in HD. Key aspects of pathogenesis shared with other neurodegenerative diseases may include abnormal protein-protein interactions, selective disruption of gene expression and 'pathological plasticity' of synapses in specific brain regions. Recent discoveries regarding molecular mechanisms of pathogenesis are guiding the development of new therapeutic approaches. Knowledge of gene-environment interactions, for example, could lead to development of 'enviromimetics' which mimic the beneficial effects of specific environmental stimuli. The effects of environmental enrichment on brain and behaviour will also be discussed, together with the general implications for neuroscience research involving animal models.
The parasitic worm Ascaris suum contains the opiate alkaloids morphine and morphine-6-glucuronide as determined by HPLC coupled to electrochemical detection and by gas chromatography/mass spectrometry. The level of morphine in muscle tissue of female and male is 252 +/- 32.68, 1168 +/- 278 and 180 +/- 23.47 (ng/g of wet tissue), respectively. The level of M6G in muscle tissue of female and male is 167 +/- 28.37 and 92 +/- 11.45 (ng/g of wet tissue), respectively. Furthermore, Ascaris maintained for 5 days contained a significant amount of morphine, as did their medium, demonstrating their ability to synthesize the opiate alkaloid. The anatomic distribution of morphine was examined by indirect immunofluorescent staining and HPLC of various tissues dissected from male and female adult worms. Immunofluorescence revealed morphine in the subcuticle layers, in the animals' nerve chords and in the female reproductive organs. Morphine was found to be most prevalent in the muscle tissue and there is significantly more morphine in females than males, probably due to the large amounts in the female uterus. Morphine (10(-9) M) and morphine-6-glucuronide (10(-9) M) stimulated the release of NO from Ascaris muscle tissue. Naloxone (10(-7) M), and L-NAME (10(-6) M) blocked (P &lt; 0.005) morphine-stimulated NO release from A. suum muscle. CTOP (10(-7) M) did not block morphine's NO release. However, naloxone could not block M6G stimulated NO release by muscle tissue, whereas CTOP (10(-7) M) blocked its release. These findings were in seeming contradiction to our inability to isolate a mu opiate receptor messenger RNA by RT-PCR using a human mu primer. This suggests that a novel mu opiate receptor was present and selective toward M6G.
The vertebrate system of steroid hormones appears to have been conserved widely throughout the animal kingdom. The sex hormone estrogen, 17-beta-estradiol (E2), long considered to be exclusively a vertebrate hormone, is found also in invertebrates related to reproductive and developmental processes such as spawning, vitellogenesis and molting. These processes are affected by estrogen induced changes at the genomic level and take place at a large time scale. The discovery of surface membrane receptors for E2 has opened new possibilities for the involvement of estrogen in biological functions other than reproductive. These processes take place within a few seconds to minutes and involve sudden cytosolic calcium transients, activation of adenylate cyclase or activation of phospholipase C (PLC). E2 can modulate the production of nitric oxide (NO) in endotheliar and other cells. A similar mechanism linking estrogen to cNOS catalized nitric oxide (NO) release is reported herein for the first time in several tissues of the giant cockroach Blaberus craniifer. This process has been identified in the brain, nerve cord, vasculature and ovaries. This effect is concentration dependent and is inhibited by tamoxifen an estrogen receptor blocker.
Locusts show an extreme example of density-dependent phase polymorphism, demonstrating within the species differences in morphology as well as biology, dependent on the population density. Behavior is the primary density-dependent change which facilitates the appearance of various morphological and physiological phase characteristics. We have studied density dependent differences in flight related sensory and central neural elements in the desert locust Schistocerca gregaria. Wind generated high frequency spiking activity in the tritocerebral commissure giant (TCG, an identified interneuron that relay inputs from head hair receptors to thoracic motor centers) that was much less intense in solitary locusts, compared to gregarious ones. In addition the solitary locusts' TCG demonstrated much stronger adaptation of its response. In cases when flight was initiated high frequency TCG activity was independent of the locust phase. The tritocerebral commissure dwarf (TCD) is a GABAergic flight related interneuron that is sensitive to ambient illumination intensity. An increase in the TCD spontaneous activity under dark vs. light conditions was significantly higher in gregarious locusts then in solitary ones, implying a flight-related inhibitory mechanism that is far more active in gregarious locusts under dark conditions. Thus, density-dependent phase differences in interneuron activity pattern and properties well reflect and may be at least partially responsible to behavioral flight-related characteristics.
The parasitoid wasp Ampulex compressa induces behavioral changes in the cockroach prey by injecting venom into its central nervous system. In contrast to most other venomous predators, the wasp's sting does not induce paralysis. Rather, the two consecutive stings in the thoracic and head ganglia induce three stereotypic behavioral effects. The prey behavior is manipulated in a way beneficial to the wasp and its offspring by providing a living meal for its newborn larva. The first sting in the thorax causes a transient front leg paralysis lasting a few minutes. This paralysis prevents the cockroach from fighting with its front legs, thereby facilitating the second sting in the head. A postsynaptic block of central synaptic transmission mediates this leg paralysis. Following the head sting, dopamine identified in the venom induces 30 minutes of intense grooming that appears to prevent the cockroach from straying until the last and third behavioral effect of hypokinesia commences. In this lethargic state that lasts about three weeks, the cockroach does not respond to various stimuli nor does it initiates movement. However, other specific behaviors of the prey are unaffected. We propose that the venom represses the activity of head ganglia neurons thereby removing the descending excitatory drive to specific thoracic neurons.
Most insects and decapod crustaceans possess an assemblage of midline neuropils, the central complex. Recent phylogenetic studies show a sister-group relationship between hexapods and decapods, suggesting that central complexes in both groups are homologous structures derived from a basal ancestral neuropil. This ancestral archetype of the central complex (lacking the protocerebral bridge) might be represented in the chilopods. Until recently, diplopods were regarded as closely related to chilopods and united within the taxon &quot;Myriapoda&quot;. The entire lack of a midline neuropil in diplopods, however, renders the monophyletic origin of the class Myriapoda unlikely. In this study we used a palette of immunocytochemical and neuroanatomical methods to investigate mid-line neuropils in hitherto poorly examined arthropod groups. Of special interest for resolving arthropod phylogeny are onychophorans, who are believed to be an evolutionary ancient group that resembles the ancestors of modern arthropods. Striking similarities in central brain neuroarchitecture of the onychophoran Euperipatoides rowellii and of a chelicerate species, however, suggest a close phylogenetic relationship between these two groups. Our findings imply that onychophorans either represent the oldest form of the chelicerates or that extant onychophorans have developed from chelicerate-like ancestors by neoteny.
Pruritus is a major problem after burn injury; however, prevalence and predictors of prolonged pruritus are not known. The aims were to assess frequency of pruritus and the role of personality traits and coping in prolonged pruritus. The participants were burn patients injured 1-18 years earlier (n=248). Pruritus was assessed with an item from the Abbreviated Burn Specific Health Scale, personality was assessed with the Swedish universities Scales of Personality, and coping with the Coping with Burns Questionnaire. In all, 60% of the participants had pruritus at follow-up, however as the time after injury increased, the number of patients with persistent itch decreased. In logistic regression, 39% of the likelihood of having persistent pruritus was explained by greater extent of burn, less time after injury, and psychological features (being less assertive, and using more instrumental but less emotional support). In summary, chronic burn-related pruritus is rather common and psychological factors such as anxiety-related traits and coping are significantly associated with its presence.
We examine a specific candidate for temporal coding of information by spike trains, the occurrence of a temporal firing pattern among some number of neurons that repeats more often than expected by chance. Methods for detection of repeating patterns have long been available, but there are no analytic methods for calculating the expected numbers of repeating patterns to enable assignment of significance to the results from the experimental data. The expected numbers can be calculated by Monte-Carlo methods by repeatedly modifying the original data spike trains. Ideally the surrogates produced by such changes should destroy all patterns and cross-correlations but preserve other aspects of the trains such as rate, interval structure etc. We present here a novel variant of the &quot;dither surrogate&quot; (Date et al. 1998) and use surrogates generated by this algorithm to evaluate repeating pattern significance in data recorded in monkey motor cortex during behavior. Although we can demonstrate high statistical significance for the excess repetition of some spike patterns, it is not obvious that this has physiological meaning or that such patterns are used for information transfer.
Cerebral ischemia was produced by moderate compression for 30 min of a specific brain area in the sensorimotor cortex of Sprague-Dawley rats. On day 1, that is 24 h after the transient sensorimotor compression, ischemia-exposed animals displayed a marked focal neurological deficit documented as impaired beam walking performance. This functional disturbance was mainly due to contralateral fore- and hind-limb paresis. As assessed by daily beam walking tests it was shown that there was a spontaneous recovery of motor functions over a period of five to seven days after the ischemic event. Using histopathological analysis (Nissl staining) we have previously reported that the present experimental paradigm does not produce pannecrosis (tissue cavitation) despite the highly reproducible focal neurological deficit. We now show how staining with fluorescent markers for neuronal death, that is Fluoro-Jade and TUNEL, respectively, identifies regional patterns of selective neuronal death. These observations add further support to the working hypothesis that the brain damage caused by cortical compression-induced ischemia consists of scattered, degenerating neurons in specific brain regions. Postsurgical administration of the AMPA receptor specific antagonist, LY326325 (30 mg/kg; i.p., 70 min after compression), not only improved beam walking performance on day 1 to 3, respectively but also significantly reduced the number of Fluoro-Jade stained neurons on day 5. These results suggest that enhanced AMPA/glutamate receptor activity is at least partially responsible for the ischemia-produced brain damage detected by the fluorescent marker Fluoro-Jade.
We report a series of studies aimed at characterizing the relationships between duration judgments and slowing down of the internal clock, attention and memory deficits. Different groups of participants (elderly people, patients with Parkinson's disease, patients with severe traumatic brain injury, and patients with temporal lobe lesions) performed a duration reproduction task and a duration production task in two conditions: a control counting condition and a concurrent reading condition. Participants were also administered reaction time tasks, tapping tasks, and a battery of attention and memory tests. The results allow us to characterize the relationships between cognitive deficits and impaired duration reproductions and productions in each group. Moreover, results as a whole clarify the respective weight of processing speed, attention and memory in both tasks, and allow better insight into the theoretical models of psychological time.
The main topics of time and timing in psychology, cognitive neuroscience and biology have been formulated already in the nineteenth century. Unfortunately, time and timing as a challenging topic has been put to rest for quite some time, but has become a central issue again during the last years. It has become clear, that perceptual or cognitive processes can only be understood if the dimension of time is taken more seriously. The reduction of complexity in neuronal systems is for instance, achieved by temporal integration mechanisms which are independent of the content of a percept or a cognitive act but are presemantical operations. It is essential to distinguish between content functions and logistical functions that provide presemantically defined temporal frames for mental activity.
Inflammatory processes associated with the over-production of cytokines, particularly of TNF-alpha, accompany numerous neurodegenerative diseases, such as Alzheimer's disease, in addition to numerous systemic conditions, exemplified by rheumatoid arthritis and erythema nodosum leprosum (ENL). TNF-alpha has been validated as a drug target with Remicade and Enbrel available as prescription medications. Both, however, are large macromolecules, require injection and have limited brain access. The classical drug, thalidomide is being increasingly used in the clinical management of a wide spectrum of diseases. As its clinical value in treating ENL derives from its TNF-alpha inhibitory activity, thalidomide was chosen for structural modification for the discovery of novel and more potent isosteric analogues with appropriate lipophilicity to insure high brain penetration. TNF-alpha inhibitory activity was evaluated against lipopolysacharide (LPS) stimulated peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC) in cell culture, whose viability was quantified to differentiate reductions in TNF-alpha secretion from that associated with cellular toxicity. Specific analogues potently inhibited TNF-alpha secretion, compared to thalidomide. This involved a post-transcriptional mechanism, as they decreased TNF-alpha mRNA stability via its 3'-untranslated region (UTR), as determined by luciferase activity in stably transfected cells with and without the 3'-UTR of human TNF-alpha.


Recent advances have increased our molecular understanding of the central nervous system (CNS), in both health and disease. In order to realize the clinical benefits of these findings, new molecular-based therapies need to be developed, such as CNS gene therapy. Although the field has suffered setbacks, it remains an attractive technology for providing new therapies in the post-genomic world. The development of new vectors, and their extensive application in animal models of CNS disease, provides evidence suggesting that gene therapy will eventually become an accepted clinical option. In fact, the first gene therapy clinical trial for Parkinson's disease has recently begun. This review discusses how gene therapy has been applied in animal models, and how it may be used to repair the damage caused by CNS diseases and trauma in human beings. Furthermore, it explores how such treatments may be combined with, and augment, more conventional therapeutic approaches.
It has been reported that immunoglobulins (IgG) in sera of patients with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) kill cultured motoneurones (MN), but whether they also cause MN degeneration in vivo is unclear. To test this, protein-A affinity purified and dialysed IgGs were prepared from sera of 44 ALS patients without paraproteinemias, 20 healthy controls and 15 disease controls. Control and ALS-IgGs were injected intraperitoneally into groups of mice for 5 consecutive days and examined at day 8. IgG was localised immunocytochemically and spinal MN were characterised histologically and ultrastructurally and by comparative counts of Ca(2+) containing organelles revealed with oxylate-pyroantimonate histochemistry. ELISA revealed no differences in IgG concentration between ALS patients and control subjects. Immunocytochemistry showed IgG was present in MN of mice injected with control or ALS-IgG, but densitometry showed immunostaining in MN was stronger in mice injected with ALS-IgG. Compared to MN of non-injected mice, control-IgG-treated mice showed near normal MN morphology and numbers of Ca(2+)-containing organelles. Disease control IgGs evoked negligible or minor morphological changes according to disease, but normal numbers of Ca(2+) containing organelles. Ultrastructurally, about 70% of ALS-derived IgGs induced a population of MN with electron lucent cytoplasm, distended Golgi, disrupted Nissl and mitochondria (i.e., necrosis). However 30% of ALS-IgGs additionally induced electron-dense degeneration in 40% of the MN. These MN exhibited shrinkage, condensed nuclear chromatin and ill-defined nuclear membranes and resembled preliminary stages of apoptosis. We conclude that passive transfer of ALS-derived, but not control IgGs, does result in MN degeneration in the recipient mice. This appears to be associated with abnormal calcium homeostasis, but the exact target of ALS-IgG remains conjectural, and the possibilities are discussed.

The effect of short duration and sustained manual acupuncture on alpha-motoneuron excitability was studied using the Soleus H-reflex. The acupuncture points GB-34 and SP-9 were needled and stimulated manually. Normalised H-reflex and M-wave recruitment curves were constructed and the ratio of the slope of the ascending part of the H-reflex recruitment curve (Hslp) to the slope of the ascending part of the M-wave recruitment curve (Mslp) was used for assessing changes in alpha-motoneuron excitability. Sustained manual acupuncture caused significant reduction of alpha-motoneuron excitability, while short duration manual acupuncture had no effect. The reduction of alpha-motoneuron excitability following sustained manual acupuncture occurred fifteen minutes after cessation of acupuncture and was still present at 30 minutes. The relationship between perceived intensity of acupuncture sensation (Deqi) and changes in alpha-motoneuron excitability was also studied, but no significant correlation was found. This study indicates that manual acupuncture would be useful in clinical conditions associated with increased alpha-motoneuron excitability and that when using acupuncture for these conditions, higher intensity of perceived acupuncture sensation (Deqi) may not result in greater degree of reduction in alpha-motoneuron excitability.


Malformations of cortical development (MCD) are developmental brain lesions characterized by abnormal formation of the cerebral cortex and a high clinical association with epilepsy in infants, children, and adults. Despite multiple anti-epileptic drugs (AEDs), treatment of epilepsy associated with MCD may require cortical resection performed to remove the cytoarchitecturally abnormal region of cortex. Single genes responsible for distinct MCD including lissencephaly, subcortical band heterotopia, and tuberous sclerosis, have been identified and permit important mechanistic insights into how gene mutations result in abnormal cortical cytoarchitecture. The pathogenesis of MCD such as focal cortical dysplasia, hemimegalencephaly, and polymicrogyria, remains unknown. A variety of new techniques including cDNA array analysis now allow for analysis of gene expression within MCD.
Recent evidence has shown that proinflammatory and anti-inflammatory molecules are synthesized during epileptic activity in glial cells in CNS regions where seizures initiate and spread. These molecules are released and interact with specific receptors on neurons. Since various cytokines have been shown to affect neuronal excitability, this led to the hypothesis that they may have a role in altering synaptic transmission in epileptic conditions. Indeed, intracerebral application of IL-1beta enhances epileptic activity in experimental models while its naturally occurring receptor antagonist (IL-1Ra) mediates anticonvulsant actions. Transgenic mice overexpressing IL-1Ra in astrocytes are less susceptible to seizures, indicating that endogenous IL-1 has proconvulsant activity. Several studies indicate a central role of IL-1beta for the exacerbation of brain damage after ischemic, traumatic or excitotoxic insults, suggesting that it may also contribute to neuronal cell injury associated with seizures. Finally, a functional polymorphism in the IL-1beta gene promoter, possibly associated with enhanced ability to produce this cytokine, has been specifically found in temporal lobe epilepsy patients with hippocampal sclerosis and in children with febrile seizures. Thus, the IL-1 system may represent a novel target for controlling seizure activity and/or the associated long-term sequelae. Furthermore, these studies suggest that other inflammatory and anti-inflammatory molecules produced in the CNS may have a role in the pathophysiology of seizure disorders.

STN-HFS is well known to improve patients with IPD. Because off-period dystonia mimics focal or generalized dystonia of other causes, we proposed bilateral STN-HFS to some patients with generalized dystonia. The aim of this study was to compare the efficacy of STN stimulation on off-period dystonia and generalized dystonia. From a larger series of patients with IPD, we selected 22 patients based on the presence of severe preoperative off-period dystonia rated &gt; or = 3 in least one limb on a severity score ranging from 0 to 4. Four patients with generalized dystonia (Hallervorden-Spatz disease, n = 3; primary, n = 1) underwent bilateral STN-HFS. Dystonia of the four limbs was rated on video recordings in all patients before surgery and 3 months after surgery. In IPD, bilateral STN stimulation reduced the severity of off-period dystonia by 70% on the four limbs (preoperative mean severity score = 2.03 +/- 1.49; postoperative mean severity score = 0.60 +/- 0.78). In contrast, bilateral STN-HFS had no effect on generalized dystonia (preoperative mean severity score = 3.25 +/- 0.77; postoperative mean severity score = 3.12 +/- 0.62). Despite clinical similarities between off-period dystonia in Parkinson's disease and generalized dystonia in certain cases, the effect of chronic bilateral STN-HFS differs. STN stimulation is highly effective in off-period dystonia of IPD, whereas it does not improve generalized dystonia. The pathophysiologic mechanisms underlying dystonia in these two disorders are still unknown. Assuming that the mechanism of action of STN-HFS is similar regardless of the cause of dystonia, our findings suggest that the STN is not similarly involved in off-period dystonia of IPD and others dystonias.






Future space missions will involve long-term travel beyond the magnetic field of the Earth, where astronauts will be exposed to radiation hazards such as those that arise from galactic cosmic rays. Galactic cosmic rays are composed of protons, alpha particles, and particles of high energy and charge (HZE particles). Research by our group has shown that exposure to HZE particles, primarily 600 MeV/n and 1 GeV/n 56Fe, can produce significant alterations in brain neurochemistry and behavior. However, given that protons can make up a significant portion of the radiation spectrum, it is important to study their effects on neural functioning and on related performance. Therefore, these studies examined the effects of exposure to proton irradiation on neurochemical and behavioral endpoints, including dopaminergic functioning, amphetamine-induced conditioned taste aversion learning, and spatial learning and memory as measured by the Morris water maze. Male Sprague-Dawley rats received a dose of 0, 1.5, 3.0 or 4.0 Gy of 250 MeV protons at Loma Linda University and were tested in the different behavioral tests at various times following exposure. Results showed that there was no effect of proton irradiation at any dose on any of the endpoints measured. Therefore, there is a contrast between the insignificant effects of high dose proton exposure and the dramatic effectiveness of low dose (&lt;0.1 Gy) exposures to 56Fe particles on both neurochemical and behavioral endpoints.
Exposure to heavy particles can affect the functioning of the central nervous system (CNS), particularly the dopaminergic system. In turn, the radiation-induced disruption of dopaminergic function affects a variety of behaviors that are dependent upon the integrity of this system, including motor behavior (upper body strength), amphetamine (dopamine)-mediated taste aversion learning, and operant conditioning (fixed-ratio bar pressing). Although the relationships between heavy particle irradiation and the effects of exposure depend, to some extent, upon the specific behavioral or neurochemical endpoint under consideration, a review of the available research leads to the hypothesis that the endpoints mediated by the CNS have certain characteristics in common. These include: (1) a threshold, below which there is no apparent effect; (2) the lack of a dose-response relationship, or an extremely steep dose-response curve, depending on the particular endpoint; and (3) the absence of recovery of function, such that the heavy particle-induced behavioral and neural changes are present when tested up to one year following exposure. The current report reviews the data relevant to the degree to which these characteristics are common to neurochemical and behavioral endpoints that are mediated by the effects of exposure to heavy particles on CNS activity.

chlamdAs with other organ systems, the vulnerability of the nervous system to infectious agents increases with aging. Several different infectious agents can cause neurodegenerative conditions, with prominent examples being human immunodeficiency virus (HIV-1) dementia and prion disorders. Such infections of the central nervous system (CNS) typically have a relatively long incubation period and a chronic progressive course, and are therefore increasing in frequency as more people live longer. Infectious agents may enter the central nervous system in infected migratory macrophages, by transcytosis across blood-brain barrier cells or by intraneuronal transfer from peripheral nerves. Synapses and lipid rafts are important sites at which infectious agents may enter neurons and/or exert their cytotoxic effects. Recent findings suggest the possibility that infectious agents may increase the risk of common age-related neurodegenerative disorders such as Alzheimer's disease (AD) and Parkinson's disease (PD), amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) and stroke. While scenarios can be envisioned whereby viruses such as Chlamydia pneumoniae, herpes simplex and influenza promote damage to neurons during aging, there is no conclusive evidence for a major role of these pathogens in neurodegenerative disorders. In the case of stroke, blood vessels may be adversely affected by bacteria or viruses resulting in atherosclerosis.
Individuals over 50 years of age comprise 11% of AIDS cases reported to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. A higher prevalence of AIDS in older individuals has been reported in certain states including Hawaii (20%) and Florida (13%). Although life expectancy in individuals with AIDS has increased with advances in antiretroviral therapy, it is likely that there are health consequences both of long-term infection and chronic antiretroviral therapy. Given the general increase in neurological disorders with age and the relatively high prevalence of cognitive dysfunction associated with HIV itself, the risk of HIV-associated dementia (HAD) in this aging HIV-seropositive subgroup is of particular concern. Existing data suggest, but have not conclusively demonstrated, increased rates of HAD in older compared with younger seropositive individuals. Preliminary data from the Hawaii Aging with HIV Cohort, a prospective cohort study designed to address this issue definitively, are presented. Factors underlying this hypothesized susceptibility in older individuals are discussed, including a synergy among HAD and other dementias, the role of vascular co-pathology, HIV and age-related immunological changes, and detrimental neuroglial changes that limit the compensatory ability of the aging brain.
Pigmented villonodular synovitis (PVNS) is a benign proliferative disorder primarily occurring in the large joints of the appendicular skeleton such as the knee and hip joints. We present an unusual case of PVNS involving the cervical spine in an adult. MR imaging showed an enhancing mass lesion arising from the posterior elements of the cervical spine and hyperintensity on the T2-weighted images, without evidence of T2 susceptibility effects. Gross total excision of the tumor was performed, and the diagnosis was established by histopathology.






Recent preliminary data suggest that vaccination with Alzheimer A beta might reduce senile plaque load and stabilize cognitive decline in human Alzheimer disease. To examine the mechanisms and consequences of anti-A beta-antibody formation in a species more closely related to humans, rhesus monkeys (Macaca mulatta) were vaccinated with aggregated A beta 1-42. Immunized monkeys developed anti-A beta titers exceeding 1:1000, and their plasma A beta levels were 5- to 10-fold higher than the plasma A beta levels observed in monkeys vaccinated with aggregated amylin. These data support the use of nonhuman primates to model certain phenomena associated with vaccination of humans with aggregated Alzheimer A beta.
Anxiety symptoms are common among opioid-dependent individuals. Buspirone, a nonbenzodiazepine anxiolytic, has been used successfully for the treatment of anxiety in alcoholic patients. Its efficacy in opioid-dependent patients has not been previously examined. We conducted a twelve-week, randomized, placebo-controlled trial of buspirone in 36 subjects receiving methadone-maintenance treatment who presented with anxiety symptoms. Measures of anxiety, depression, and substance use were obtained repeatedly during treatment. Buspirone treatment did not significantly reduce anxiety symptoms in opioid-dependent patients. However, buspirone treatment was associated with trends toward reduction in depression scale scores and a slower return to substance use.
In acupunctural reflexotherapy, it is usually stated that no appreciable therapeutic effect is obtained under a certain stimulation level, which is determined by the appearance of a particular sensation known as De-Qi. Given that afference control actions of the central nervous system do not work in this way, but rather adapt, with some peculiarities, to a classical schedule of proportionality between stimulus and response, our aim is to evaluate the extent to which acupunctural stimuli of increasing intensity can also increasingly modify neurophysiological parameters, by focusing on quantification of metameric levels, by an F-wave study and by means of somatosensorial evoked potential in the telencephalus. Twenty-one healthy volunteers were studied; values corresponding to the parameters indicated in a basal situation were taken and both a non-acupunctural point and the classical 4IG point were punctured simply, until the De-Qi sensation was obtained, following which, electrical stimulation was applied. Clear progressiveness was observed in the modifications of both the F-value and somesthesic potential values with increasing stimuli. It is true that the main inflexion occurs where obtaining De-Qi, but when overstimulation is applied from that time, greater variations take place, which is particularly patent in the case of somesthesic potential latency. Furthermore, the puncture of an extrachannel point shows that the mere puncturing of the skin does not produce any of the aforementioned effects. Despite the classical postulates, it is observed that, the greater the intensity of the acupunctural stimulus, the greater the modifications in the neurophysiological parameters studied. Control of somesthesic afference by acupuncture has already been demonstrated and quantified; now, however, the direct relation between the intensity of this effect and that of the stimulus used to produce it, which is quite far removed from the classical energetic conceptions, is also observed. The effect of acupunctural stimulation is closely related to the intensity of the stimulus applied and the De-Qi sensation is not required to obtain neurofunctional modifications and stimulations that go beyond it producing greater effects.
Bee venom (BV) has been used to relieve pain and reduce inflammation in traditional Oriental medicine, especially in chronic inflammatory diseases such as rheumatoid arthritis (RA). We previously reported that the BV injection into a traditional acupuncture point (Zusanli) reduced arthritis-associated edema and nociceptive responses in Freund's adjuvant-induced arthritis in rats (Kwon et al., 2001). This study was designed to evaluate the anti-inflammatory and anti-cytokine effect of BV on a murine type-II collagen-induced arthritis (CIA) model. Male mice were immunized by spontaneous injection of 100 microg of an emulsion of bovine type-II collagen and complete Freund's adjuvant (CFA), with a booster injection after 2 weeks. In the experimental group, 0.1 ml BV was injected at acupuncture point (Zusanli) near both knees twice a week for a total of 5 times. In the control group, normal saline was injected at the same frequencies. These injections began 5 weeks after the first collagen injection. Starting the 3rd week after the first collagen injection, we examined limb swelling and severity of arthritis twice a week. At 8 weeks, mice were sacrificed and synovial tissue was examined with the light microscope and serum cytokines (IL-1beta and TNF-alpha) were measured by ELISA. The incidence of arthritis, the mean arthritis index and the number of arthritic limbs were significantly lower in the treatment compared to the control group (63% versus 75%, 3.4% versus 8.5%, 23% versus 75%, respectively). Among the serum proinflammatory cytokines, the production of TNF-alpha in the BV group was suppressed compared to the control group (59 +/- 4.5 versus 99.5 +/- 6.5, p &lt; 0.05), but IL-1beta was not suppressed. The examination of the histopathology of the joints of murine CIA showed decreased inflammation signs and less lymphocyte infiltration after BV acupuncture therapy. Acupuncture therapy with BV suppressed the development of arthritis and caused inhibition of the immune responses in type-II collagen-induced arthritis.
In this personal memoir the author describes the progress of his rehabilitation from a stroke and the dream manifestations of his mind-body healing. He also shares his reminiscences about Erickson's physical difficulties as well as Erickson's naturalistic or activity-dependent approach to therapeutic hypnosis and rehabilitation and emphasizes what he considers the least understood and most under appreciated aspect of Erickson's hypnotherapy--the fact that his patients frequently experienced intense emotional experiences as they accessed and replayed their traumas in a therapeutic manner. He also speculates about the neural mechanisms of his healing from the standpoint of his new neuroscience theory which includes the novelty-numinosum-neurogenesis effect.
We report the first major genetic study of mild mental impairment. From a representative sample of 3886 twins (1314 monozygotic, 1296 dizygotic same-sex, and 1276 dizygotic opposite-sex), the lowest 5% were selected on a composite measure of verbal and nonverbal abilities assessed by parents when the twins were 2, 3, and 4 years of age. Twin concordances for mild mental impairment were 74% for monozygotic twins, 45% for same-sex, and 36% for opposite-sex dizygotic twins, indicating substantial genetic influence. Model-fitting analyses estimated group heritability as.49, which is significantly greater than heritability for the rest of the population in early childhood. These results suggest that mild mental impairment is a good target for neuroscience research on global brain function and dysfunction.
The aims of this study were to evaluate the outcome of inpatients with severe psychiatric disorders after 6 months of multimodal residential treatment. Ninety-one subjects admitted to residential prolonged treatment at an Italian rehabilitative complex were included in the study. Within 6 months, the program of treatment was effective in reducing symptoms and improving the patients' psychosocial functioning. The study of personality can be useful to &quot;dose&quot; symptomatic (pharmacological and psychotherapeutic) and rehabilitative treatments in the therapy program.
Ubiquitin is thought to be a stress protein that plays an important role in protecting cells under stress conditions; however, its precise role is unclear. Ubiquitin expression level is controlled by the balance of ubiquitinating and deubiquitinating enzymes. To investigate the function of deubiquitinating enzymes on ischemia-induced neural cell apoptosis in vivo, we analyzed gracile axonal dystrophy (gad) mice with an exon deletion for ubiquitin carboxy terminal hydrolase-L1 (UCH-L1), a neuron-specific deubiquitinating enzyme. In wild-type mouse retina, light stimuli and ischemic retinal injury induced strong ubiquitin expression in the inner retina, and its expression pattern was similar to that of UCH-L1. On the other hand, gad mice showed reduced ubiquitin induction after light stimuli and ischemia, whereas expression levels of antiapoptotic (Bcl-2 and XIAP) and prosurvival (brain-derived neurotrophic factor) proteins that are normally degraded by an ubiquitin-proteasome pathway were significantly higher. Consistently, ischemia-induced caspase activity and neural cell apoptosis were suppressed approximately 70% in gad mice. These results demonstrate that UCH-L1 is involved in ubiquitin expression after stress stimuli, but excessive ubiquitin induction following ischemic injury may rather lead to neural cell apoptosis in vivo.
The goal of this study was to determine whether the protein kinase A (PKA) responsiveness of the cardiac L-type Ca(2+) current (ICa) is affected during transient increases in intracellular Ca(2+) concentration. Ventricular myocytes were isolated from 3- to 4-day-old neonatal rats and cultured on aligned collagen thin gels. When measured in 1 or 2 mM Ca(2+) external solution, the aligned myocytes displayed a large ICa that was weakly regulated (20% increase) during stimulation of PKA by 2 microM forskolin. In contrast, application of forskolin caused a 100% increase in ICa when the external Ca(2+) concentration was reduced to 0.5 mM or replaced with Ba(2+). This Ca(2+)-dependent inhibition was also observed when the cells were treated with 1 microM isoproterenol, 100 microM 3-isobutyl-1-methylxanthine, or 500 microM 8-bromo-cAMP. The responsiveness of ICa to PKA was restored during intracellular dialysis with a calmodulin (CaM) inhibitory peptide but not during treatment with inhibitors of protein kinase C, Ca(2+)/CaM-dependent protein kinase, or calcineurin. Adenoviral-mediated expression of a CaM molecule with mutations in all four Ca(2+)-binding sites also increased the PKA sensitivity of ICa. Finally, adult mouse ventricular myocytes displayed a greater response to forskolin and cAMP in external Ba(2+). Thus Ca(2+) entering the myocyte through the voltage-gated Ca(2+) channel regulates the PKA responsiveness of ICa.
Agouti-related protein (AgRP), an endogenous melanocortin 3/4 receptor antagonist, appears to play an important role in the control of food intake and energy balance because exogenous administration in rats and overexpression in mice result in hyperphagia and body mass gain. Furthermore, arcuate nucleus AgRP mRNA is increased with fasting in laboratory rats and mice and is decreased with refeeding. In Siberian hamsters, fasting also increases arcuate nucleus AgRP mRNA, but these animals increase food hoarding, rather than food intake with refeeding. Therefore, we tested whether exogenous AgRP increased food hoarding in this species. Hamsters were trained in a hoarding/foraging apparatus to run a programmed number of wheel revolutions to earn food pellets. Four doses of AgRP-(83-132) or vehicle were injected into the third ventricle at the beginning of the dark phase, and food hoarding, food intake, and foraging were measured at various time points subsequently. Overall, food hoarding was stimulated as much as 10 times more than food intake, and both responses occurred as early as 1 h after injection. Food hoarding was increased the greatest at the lowest dose (0.1 nmol), whereas food intake was increased the greatest at the second lowest dose (1 nmol). Food intake and especially food hoarding were increased up to seven days after the AgRP injections. Foraging was increased at all AgRP doses except the highest dose (100 nmol). These results suggest that AgRP triggers the search for food in this species, and once they find it, hoarding predominates over eating.

After September 11, 2001, we distributed flashbulb memory questionnaires at 5 different dates: within 48 hr (T1) and at 1 week (T2), 1 month (T3), 3 months (T4), and 1 year (T5). We scored responses for self-reported memory (veracity unverified), memory accuracy (recollection-matched T1 response), and memory consistency (recollection-matched prior responses other than T1). Self-reported memory and subjective confidence remained near ceiling, although the accuracy declined. However, memories given a week or more after September 11 were consistent throughout. We hypothesize that flashbulb memories follow a consolidation-like process: Some details learned later are incorporated into the initial memory, and many others are discarded. After this process, memories stabilize. Therefore, the best predictor of flashbulb memories at long intervals is not the memory as initially reported but memories reported a week or more after the event.



In neuroscientific research, the importance of a multi-level approach in studying behaviour, ranging from the molecular to the behavioural level, has been increasingly recognised. In fact, behaviour represents the ultimate output of the brain, and behavioural phenotyping may provide functional information that may not be detectable using molecular, cellular, or histological evaluations. To correctly exploit the study of behaviour in the field of neuroscience, the principles and strategies of ethology must be carefully considered, so as to design appropriate experiments and accurately interpret data. In particular, ethological-type scoring, which entails both the close observation of the studied behaviour and the taking into account of its possible evolutionary history and adaptive significance, can contribute to standardising experimental protocols, so as to improve the quality of data and the welfare of the experimental animal.
We studied a patient with right parietal damage for whom tactile stimuli on the right/ipsilesional hand (projecting to the intact left hemisphere) were extinguished from awareness during double simultaneous stimulation, when his right hand was positioned in the left/contralesional space. This demonstrates the role of an egocentric spatial reference frame in attention that can determine awareness of stimuli despite intact sensory pathways. Using functional magnetic resonance imaging to elucidate the neural correlates of such perceptual extinction, we found that limb position modulated neural responses to tactile stimuli at early cortical stages (SI) in the intact hemisphere. Activity in bilateral middle frontal gyri also was modulated by limb position and may contribute to integrate sensory inputs into a supramodal, egocentric representation of space.
We describe a consanguineous Indian family having spinocerebellar ataxia type 2 (SCA2) expansions with complex phenotypes (early-onset, dopa-responsive parkinsonism, ataxia and retinitis pigmentosa). The two probands having homozygous SCA2 mutations presenting with early-onset dopa-responsive parkinsonism without ataxia develop dyskinesias within a year of starting levodopa. Their siblings, heterozygous for SCA2 mutations, had retinitis pigmentosa with or without ataxia. Approximately 38% of family members with SCA2 mutations were asymptomatic.
Autosomal dominant cerebellar ataxias constitute one of the most clinically, neuropathologically, and genetically heterogeneous groups of neurodegenerative disorders. Approximately 50 to 80% of the families carry mutations in genes known to be implicated in spinocerebellar ataxias (SCAs). Numerous loci (SCAn) also have been mapped, often in single families, but the responsible genes have not yet been identified. This suggests further genetic heterogeneity. We have ascertained 18 subjects from a large French family in which cerebellar ataxia and prominent sensory neuropathy segregated as a dominant trait. Intrafamilial variability was high regarding age at onset (17 months to 39 years), severity, and the clinical picture that ranged from pure sensory neuropathy with little cerebellar involvement to a Friedreich's ataxia-like phenotype. After excluding known genes/loci responsible for SCA and hereditary sensory neuropathies, we detected linkage with chromosome 2p markers in a genomewide screen. We designated this new locus SCA25 after testing of 16 additional markers. Maximum two-point logarithm of odds scores of 3.15 and 3.10 were obtained at D2S2378 and D2S2734, respectively. Haplotype analysis defined a critical 12.6cM region of 15Mb between D2S2174 and D2S2736. No linkage to this locus was found in four other families. This interval contains several genes that could be responsible for the disease. One of these genes, CRIPT, encodes a postsynaptic protein, but no mutations were found by direct sequencing, excluding its responsibility in the disease. CAG repeat expansions often are involved in SCA pathogenesis, but no pathological expansions were found at the protein or at the DNA level using the 1C2 antibody and the repeat expansion detection method, respectively. The gene responsible for SCA25 remains to be identified.
The GoLoco motif is a 19-amino-acid sequence with guanine nucleotide dissociation inhibitor activity against G-alpha subunits of the adenylyl-cyclase-inhibitory subclass. The GoLoco motif is present as an independent element within multidomain signaling regulators, such as Loco, RGS12, RGS14, and Rap1GAP, as well as in tandem arrays in proteins, such as AGS3, G18, LGN, Pcp-2/L7, and Partner of Inscuteable (Pins/Rapsynoid). Here we discuss the biochemical mechanisms of GoLoco motif action on G-alpha subunits in light of the recent crystal structure of G-alpha-i1 bound to the RGS14 GoLoco motif. Currently, there is sparse evidence for GoLoco motif regulation of canonical G-protein-coupled receptor signaling. Rather, studies of asymmetric cell division in Drosophila and Caenorhabditis elegans, as well as mammalian mitosis, implicate GoLoco proteins, such as Pins, GPR-1/GPR-2, LGN, and RGS14, in mitotic spindle organization and force generation. We discuss potential mechanisms by which GoLoco/Galpha complexes might modulate spindle dynamics.
The inositol 1,4,5 trisphosphate (IP3) receptor (IP3R) is a Ca2+ release channel that responds to the second messenger IP3. Exquisite modulation of intracellular Ca2+ release via IP3Rs is achieved by the ability of IP3R to integrate signals from numerous small molecules and proteins including nucleotides, kinases, and phosphatases, as well as nonenzyme proteins. Because the ion conduction pore composes only approximately 5% of the IP3R, the great bulk of this large protein contains recognition sites for these substances. Through these regulatory mechanisms, IP3R modulates diverse cellular functions, which include, but are not limited to, contraction/excitation, secretion, gene expression, and cellular growth. We review the unique properties of the IP3R that facilitate cell-type and stimulus-dependent control of function, with special emphasis on protein-binding partners.
Lysophospholipids (LPs), such as lysophosphatidic acid and sphingosine 1-phosphate, are membrane-derived bioactive lipid mediators. LPs can affect fundamental cellular functions, which include proliferation, differentiation, survival, migration, adhesion, invasion, and morphogenesis. These functions influence many biological processes that include neurogenesis, angiogenesis, wound healing, immunity, and carcinogenesis. In recent years, identification of multiple cognate G protein-coupled receptors has provided a mechanistic framework for understanding how LPs play such diverse roles. Generation of LP receptor-null animals has allowed rigorous examination of receptor-mediated physiological functions in vivo and has identified new functions for LP receptor signaling. Efforts to develop LP receptor subtype-specific agonists/antagonists are in progress and raise expectations for a growing collection of chemical tools and potential therapeutic compounds. The rapidly expanding literature on the LP receptors is herein reviewed.
The nervous system of higher organisms exhibits extraordinary cellular diversity owing to complex spatial and temporal patterning mechanisms. The role of spatial patterning in generating neuronal diversity is well known; here we discuss how neural progenitors change over time to contribute to cell diversity within the central nervous system (CNS). We focus on five model systems: the vertebrate retina, cortex, hindbrain, spinal cord, and Drosophila neuroblasts. For each, we address the following questions: Do multipotent progenitors generate different neuronal cell types in an invariant order? Do changes in progenitor-intrinsic factors or progenitor-extrinsic signals regulate temporal identity (i.e., the sequence of neuronal cell types produced)? What is the mechanism that regulates temporal identity transitions; i.e., what triggers the switch from one temporal identity to the next? By applying the same criteria to analyze each model system, we try to highlight common themes, point out unique attributes of each system, and identify directions for future research.
During brain development, neurons migrate great distances from proliferative zones to generate the cortical gray matter. A series of studies has identified genes that are critical for migration and targeting of neurons to specific brain regions. These genes encode three basic groups of proteins and produce three distinct phenotypes. The first group encodes cytoskeletal molecules and produces graded and dosage-dependent effects, with a significant amount of functional redundancy. This group also appears to play important roles during the initiation and ongoing progression of neuronal movement. The second group encodes signaling molecules for which homozygous mutations lead to an inverted cortex. In addition, this group is responsible for movement of neurons through anatomic boundaries to specific cortical layers. The third group encodes enzymatic regulators of glycosylation and appears to delineate where neuronal migration will arrest. There is significant cross-talk among these different groups of molecules, suggesting possible points of pathway convergence.
With the advent of significant collaborations between researchers who study insect walking and robotics engineers interested in constructing adaptive legged robots, insect walking is once again poised to make a more significant scientific contribution than the numbers of participants in the field might suggest. This review outlines current knowledge of the physiological basis of insect walking with an emphasis on recent new developments in biomechanics and genetic dissection of behavior, and the impact this knowledge is having on robotics. Engineers have begun to team with neurobiologists to build walking robots whose physical design and functional control are based on insect biology. Such an approach may have benefits for engineering, by leading to the construction of better-performing robots, and for biology, by allowing real-time and real-world tests of critical hypotheses about how locomotor control is effected. It is argued that in order for the new field of biorobotics to have significant influence it must adopt criteria for performance and an experimental approach to the development of walking robots.
Addiction can be viewed as a form of drug-induced neural plasticity. One of the best-established molecular mechanisms of addiction is upregulation of the cAMP second messenger pathway, which occurs in many neuronal cell types in response to chronic administration of opiates or other drugs of abuse. This upregulation and the resulting activation of the transcription factor CREB appear to mediate aspects of tolerance and dependence. In contrast, induction of another transcription factor, termed DeltaFosB, exerts the opposite effect and may contribute to sensitized responses to drug exposure. Knowledge of these mechanisms could lead to more effective treatments for addictive disorders.
Because information about gender, kin, and social status are essential for reproduction and survival, it seems likely that specialized neural mechanisms have evolved to process social information. This review describes recent studies of four aspects of social information processing: (a) perception of social signals via the vomeronasal system, (b) formation of social memory via long-term filial imprinting and short-term recognition, (c) motivation for parental behavior and pair bonding, and (d) the neural consequences of social experience. Results from these studies and some recent functional imaging studies in human subjects begin to define the circuitry of a &quot;social brain.&quot; Such neurodevelopmental disorders as autism and schizophrenia are characterized by abnormal social cognition and corresponding deficits in social behavior; thus social neuroscience offers an important opportunity for translational research with an impact on public health.
The discovery and analysis of cortical visual areas is a major accomplishment of visual neuroscience. In the past decade the use of noninvasive functional imaging, particularly functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI), has dramatically increased our detailed knowledge of the functional organization of the human visual cortex and its relation to visual perception. The fMRI method offers a major advantage over other techniques applied in neuroscience by providing a large-scale neuroanatomical perspective that stems from its ability to image the entire brain essentially at once. This bird's eye view has the potential to reveal large-scale principles within the very complex plethora of visual areas. Thus, it could arrange the entire constellation of human visual areas in a unified functional organizational framework. Here we review recent findings and methods employed to uncover the functional properties of the human visual cortex focusing on two themes: functional specialization and hierarchical processing.
Neurotransmitter release is mediated by exocytosis of synaptic vesicles at the presynaptic active zone of nerve terminals. To support rapid and repeated rounds of release, synaptic vesicles undergo a trafficking cycle. The focal point of the vesicle cycle is Ca2+-triggered exocytosis that is followed by different routes of endocytosis and recycling. Recycling then leads to the docking and priming of the vesicles for another round of exo- and endocytosis. Recent studies have led to a better definition than previously available of how Ca2+ triggers exocytosis and how vesicles recycle. In particular, insight into how Munc18-1 collaborates with SNARE proteins in fusion, how the vesicular Ca2+ sensor synaptotagmin 1 triggers fast release, and how the vesicular Rab3 protein regulates release by binding to the active zone proteins RIM1 alpha and RIM2 alpha has advanced our understanding of neurotransmitter release. The present review attempts to relate these molecular data with physiological results in an emerging view of nerve terminals as macromolecular machines.
Many neurons in the mammalian central nervous system communicate through electrical synapses, defined here as gap junction-mediated connections. Electrical synapses are reciprocal pathways for ionic current and small organic molecules. They are often strong enough to mediate close synchronization of subthreshold and spiking activity among clusters of neurons. The most thoroughly studied electrical synapses occur between excitatory projection neurons of the inferior olivary nucleus and between inhibitory interneurons of the neocortex, hippocampus, and thalamus. All these synapses require the gap junction protein connexin36 (Cx36) for robust electrical coupling. Cx36 appears to interconnect neurons exclusively, and it is expressed widely along the mammalian neuraxis, implying that there are undiscovered electrical synapses throughout the central nervous system. Some central neurons may be electrically coupled by other connexin types or by pannexins, a newly described family of gap junction proteins. Electrical synapses are a ubiquitous yet underappreciated feature of neural circuits in the mammalian brain.
A hostile environment and decreased regenerative capacity may contribute to the failure of axon regeneration in the adult central nervous system. Recent studies leading to the identification of several myelin-associated inhibitors and their signaling molecules provide opportunitities to assess the contribution of these inhibitory molecules in restricting axon regeneration. These findings may ultimately allow for the development of strategies to alleviate the inhibitory effects of such molecules in an effort to encourage axon regeneration after spinal cord and brain injury.
Genetic studies of behavior have traditionally come in two flavors: quantitative genetic studies of natural variants and single-gene studies of induced mutants. Each employed different techniques and methods of analysis toward the common, ultimate goal of understanding how genes influence behavior. With the advent of new genomic technologies, and also the realization that mechanisms underlying behavior involve a considerable degree of complex gene interaction, the traditionally separate strands of behavior genetics are merging into a single, synthetic strategy.
Dopamine- and cAMP-regulated phosphoprotein, Mr 32 kDa (DARPP-32), was identified initially as a major target for dopamine and protein kinase A (PKA) in striatum. However, recent advances now indicate that regulation of the state of DARPP-32 phosphorylation provides a mechanism for integrating information arriving at dopaminoceptive neurons, in multiple brain regions, via a variety of neurotransmitters, neuromodulators, neuropeptides, and steroid hormones. Activation of PKA or PKG stimulates DARPP-32 phosphorylation at Thr34 and thereby converts DARPP-32 into a potent inhibitor of protein phosphatase-1 (PP-1). DARPP-32 is also phosphorylated at Thr75 by Cdk5 and this converts DARPP-32 into an inhibitor of PKA. Thus, DARPP-32 has the unique property of being a dual-function protein, acting either as an inhibitor of PP-1 or of PKA. The state of phosphorylation of DARPP-32 at Thr34 depends on the phosphorylation state of two serine residues, Ser102 and Ser137, which are phosphorylated by CK2 and CK1, respectively. By virtue of its ability to modulate the activity of PP-1 and PKA, DARPP-32 is critically involved in regulating electrophysiological, transcriptional, and behavioral responses to physiological and pharmacological stimuli, including antidepressants, neuroleptics, and drugs of abuse.
Although development of the nervous system is inherently a process of dynamic change, until recently it has generally been investigated by inference from static images. However, advances in live optical imaging are now allowing direct observation of growth, synapse formation, and even incipient function in the developing nervous system, at length scales from molecules to cortical regions, and over timescales from milliseconds to months. In this review, we provide technical background and present examples of how these new methods, including confocal and two-photon microscopy, GFP-based markers, and functional indicators, are being applied to provide fresh insight into long-standing questions of neural development.
The development of functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) has brought together a broad community of scientists interested in measuring the neural basis of the human mind. Because fMRI signals are an indirect measure of neural activity, interpreting these signals to make deductions about the nervous system requires some understanding of the signaling mechanisms. We describe our current understanding of the causal relationships between neural activity and the blood-oxygen-level-dependent (BOLD) signal, and we review how these analyses have challenged some basic assumptions that have guided neuroscience. We conclude with a discussion of how to use the BOLD signal to make inferences about the neural signal.
Traditional theories of forgetting are wedded to the notion that cue-overload interference procedures (often involving the A-B, A-C list-learning paradigm) capture the most important elements of forgetting in everyday life. However, findings from a century of work in psychology, psychopharmacology, and neuroscience converge on the notion that such procedures may pertain mainly to forgetting in the laboratory and that everyday forgetting is attributable to an altogether different form of interference. According to this idea, recently formed memories that have not yet had a chance to consolidate are vulnerable to the interfering force of mental activity and memory formation (even if the interfering activity is not similar to the previously learned material). This account helps to explain why sleep, alcohol, and benzodiazepines all improve memory for a recently learned list, and it is consistent with recent work on the variables that affect the induction and maintenance of long-term potentiation in the hippocampus.
Consolidation is the progressive postacquisition stabilization of long-term memory. The term is commonly used to refer to two types of processes: synaptic consolidation, which is accomplished within the first minutes to hours after learning and occurs in all memory systems studied so far; and system consolidation, which takes much longer, and in which memories that are initially dependent upon the hippocampus undergo reorganization and may become hippocampal-independent. The textbook account of consolidation is that for any item in memory, consolidation starts and ends just once. Recently, a heated debate has been revitalized on whether this is indeed the case, or, alternatively, whether memories become labile and must undergo some form of renewed consolidation every time they are activated. This debate focuses attention on fundamental issues concerning the nature of the memory trace, its maturation, persistence, retrievability, and modifiability.
Cognitive neuroscience is motivated by the precept that a discoverable correspondence exists between mental states and brain states. This precept seems to be supported by remarkable observations and conclusions derived from event-related potentials and functional imaging with humans and neurophysiology with behaving monkeys. This review evaluates specific conceptual and technical limits of claims of correspondence between neural events, overt behavior, and hypothesized covert processes examined using data on the neural control of saccadic eye movements.
The independent effects of cultural and educational experience on neuropsychological test performance were examined among 503 nondemented African Americans ages 65 and older. Measures of cultural experience (acculturation) and quality of education (reading level) were administered. Reading level was the most influential predictor of cognitive test performance, even after accounting for age, sex, years of education, and acculturation level. Age had small but significant unique effects on most measures, especially word list learning. Years of education had independent effects on measures of verbal abstraction, fluency, and figure matching. More acculturated African Americans obtained higher scores on most measures; however, after accounting for age, years of education, sex, and reading level, the effect of acculturation was diminished. The results suggest that quality of education and cultural experience influence how older African Americans approach neuropsychological tasks; therefore, adjustment for these variables may improve specificity of neuropsychological measures.
Oxidative stress is supposed to play an important role in demyelinating diseases. Oligodendrocytes are the myelin-forming cells in the brain and are highly susceptible to oxidative stress due to their low antioxidative defense systems and high metabolic rate. In the present work, we tested the response of the oligodendrocyte cell line OLN 93 to oxidative stress. OLN 93 cell cultures are characterized by a loss of cell viability after oxidation. This loss of cell viability is accompanied by an increase in protein oxidation and consequently an elevated overall proteolysis. To minimize the oxidative damage, we tested the effects of the antioxidants alpha-lipoic acid and coenzyme Q(10). Both compounds were able to elevate cell viability and to decrease intracellular protein turnover and oxidant induced protein oxidation. Therefore, we concluded that the excessive oxidative damage of oligodendrocytes and their protein pool can be prevented by the usage of antioxidants.
Two student groups, introductory psychology (n=91) and advanced neuroscience (n=34) undergraduates, were asked to malinger a head injury on Rey's 15-Item Test (FIT) and Dot Counting Test (DCT). The participants were randomly assigned to one of three motivation conditions (no motivation given, compensation, avoidance of blame for a motor vehicle accident) and to one of three coaching conditions (no coaching, coaching post-concussive symptoms, coaching symptoms plus warning of malingering detection). Analyses revealed a MotivationxStudent Group interaction on the FIT, indicating that the advanced neuroscience students, particularly when in the compensation condition, malingered the most flagrantly. On the DCT, main effects for motivation and coaching on the qualitative variables and a MotivationxCoaching interaction on the accuracy variables indicated that those in the compensation condition performed the most poorly, and that coaching plus warning only tempers malingering on memory tasks, not timed tasks.
In the context of the diseases characterized by cognitive impairment, the appearance of behavioral modifications is frequently observed, in particular agitation and/or aggression. In dementia, cognitive symptoms are often associated with psychiatric symptoms, such as personality, mood, behavioral and &quot;psychotic&quot; disorders, at present defined as behavioral and psychological symptoms of dementia (BPSD), representing the main cause of hospitalization for these patients. Among the different pharmacological classes, justified by the complex genesis of BPSD, the choice of a specific treatment is mainly related with the safety of different molecules, among which atypical antipsychotics are the first choice class.
Sleep in elderly people shows progressive changes caused by general aging processes. Several alterations are described in medical literature: changes of sleep/wake rhythm and modifications both in sleep duration and in sleep architecture. The aim of our study was to evaluate sleep disturbances in elderly people, with and without cognitive impairment,through a sleep questionnaire. Our population included 1000 subjects, over 65 years of age, stratified by sex and age. The first 600 interviews were included in this report. All patients underwent a mini mental state examination (MMSE) and a questionnaire concerning excessive daytime sleepiness. In our total sample, we found a high prevalence of excessive daytime sleepiness, insomnia, nighttime awakenings, snoring, restlessness and periodic leg movements during sleep. Patients with cognitive dysfunctions showed less difficulty in falling asleep and fewer nighttime awakenings; they snored less frequently and were the only ones to present enuresis and to fall off the bed. Moreover, patients with cognitive impairment presented excessive daytime sleepiness with variable intensity and frequency. In conclusion, our results indicate significant differences in sleep disorders between healthy subjects and patients cognitively impaired. Besides, our subjective evaluation seems to be a useful method to perform an assessment of sleep disturbances in elderly people.
In the present study we assessed the presence and severity of unconventional affective symptoms (apathy, anhedonia and emotional lability) and depression in 33 elderly patients with first ever stroke and evidence of a single supratentorial lesion at neuroimaging. Patients were submitted to neurological, functional, and affective assessment at a mean interval of 2 weeks after stroke onset. Given the putative role of the frontal lobes in the pathogenesis of these symptoms, we also performed a cognitive assessment focused on executive functions. The prevalence of the various affective symptoms was as follows:apathy 15.2 %, anhedonia 6.1 %, emotional lability 48.5 %, depression 57.6 % of cases. Patients had a normal global cognitive level (mean short portable mental status questionnaire: 8.4 +/- 1.0, range 7-10). Apathy and anhedonia showed significant reciprocal correlations and they were also correlated with the executive score and the Barthel index;apathy was also correlated with depression; emotional lability, instead, was correlated only with depression. The study of possible anatomo-functional correlates between unconventional affective symptoms and lesion site did not show significant differences (stroke in the right versus left hemisphere, anterior versus posterior and cortical versus subcortical locations).
This study was performed to assess whether patients with Parkinson's disease (PD)develop cognitive and psychiatric impairments more frequently during therapy with continuous subcutaneous apomorphine infusion (CAI) compared to the standard oral treatment. Thirty consecutive PD patients with severe motor fluctuations were included. Of them, 12 patients received the CAI treatment, while the remaining 18 continued the treatment with oral dopaminergic drugs. The two groups were evaluated with neuropsychological,psychiatric and motor tests at baseline and after two years. The off-awake daily duration and the levodopa dosage were significantly reduced in the patients infused with apomorphine.In comparison with the baseline evaluation, the neuropsychiatric assessment did not change in either of groups at the follow-up, except for a significant improvement of mood in the CAI treated group.




House mouse lines bidirectionally selected for nest-building behavior show a correlation between number of AVP cells in the suprachiasmatic nuclei (SCN), the master circadian clock in mammals, and level of nest-building behavior as well as a correlation between wheel-running activity and SCN AVP content. Similar genetic correlations between wheel-running activity and nest-building behavior have been reported in house mouse lines selected for increased voluntary wheel-running behavior. These similarities in genetic correlation structure in independently selected mouse lines allowed us to test whether AVP in the SCN and wheel running activity are truly correlated traits under identical testing procedures. In the mouse lines selected for voluntary wheel-running, no difference was found between the lines selected for high levels of voluntary wheel-running and randomly-bred control lines in the number of AVP immunoreactive neurons in the SCN ( F1,6 = 0.09, NS; replicate line effect: F1,22 = 0.05, NS). This finding was confirmed at the level of individual variation, which revealed no relationship between number of AVP neurons in the SCN and total daily activity ( R = -0.086, NS, n = 24), or circadian organization (i.e., the chi-squared periodogram waveform amplitude; R = -0.071, NS). Therefore our data do not support the hypothesis that differences in activity level and the circadian expression of activity in young adult mice are related to differences in the number of AVP-immunoreactive cells in the SCN.
Basic neuroscience research on brain plasticity, motor learning and recovery has stimulated new concepts in neurological rehabilitation. Combined with the development of set methodological standards in clinical outcome research, these findings have led to a double-paradigm shift in motor rehabilitation: (a) the move towards evidence-based procedures for the assessment of clinical outcome &amp; the employment of disablement models to anchor outcome parameters, and (b) the introduction of practice-based concepts that are derived from testable models that specify treatment mechanisms. In this context, constraint-induced movement therapy (CIT) has played a catalytic role in taking motor rehabilitation forward into the scientific arena. As a theoretically founded and hypothesis-driven intervention, CIT research focuses on two main issues. The first issue is the assessment of long-term clinical benefits in an increasing range of patient groups, and the second issue is the investigation of neuronal and behavioural treatment mechanisms and their interactive contribution to treatment success. These studies are mainly conducted in the research environment and will eventually lead to increased treatment benefits for patients in standard health care. However, gradual but presumably more immediate benefits for patients may be achieved by introducing and testing derivates of the CIT concept that are more compatible with current clinical practice. Here, we summarize the theoretical and empirical issues related to the translation of research-based CIT work into the clinical context of standard health care.
Rorschach Oral Dependency scores (Masling, Rabie, &amp; Blondheim, 1967) were compared among nonsexually offending psychopaths (NSOPs, n = 32), sexual homicide perpetrators (SHPs, n = 38), and non-violent pedophiles (NVPs, n = 39) as initially reported by Gacono, Meloy, and Bridges (2000). The aggressive special scores of Gacono and Meloy (1994; Gacono, unpublished doctoral dissertation, 1998) were also scored and compared with ROD scores. Consistent with theory and predictions, NVPs were found to have significantly higher levels of oral dependency scores than NSOPs or SHPs. Additionally, there was a high degree of association between oral dependency and aggression in the SHP and NSOP groups. These Rorschach differences support the validity of the ROD as an implicit measure of dependency and add to the understanding of the dynamics that fuel sexually deviant violence.
Naked plasmid DNA can be used to introduce genetic material into a variety of cell types in vivo. However, such gene transfer and expression is generally very low compared with that achieved with viral vectors and so is unsuitable for clinical therapeutic application in most cases. This difference in efficiency has been substantially reduced by the introduction of in vivo electroporation to enhance plasmid delivery to a wide range of tissues including muscle, skin, liver, lung, artery, kidney, retina, cornea, spinal cord, brain, synovium, and tumors. The precise mechanism of in vivo electroporation is uncertain, but appears to involve both electropore formation and an electrophoretic movement of the plasmid DNA. Skeletal muscle is a favored target tissue for three reasons: there is a pressing need to develop effective therapies for muscular dystrophies; skeletal muscle can act as an effective platform for the long-term secretion of therapeutic proteins for systemic distribution; and introduction of DNA vaccines into skeletal muscle promotes strong humoral and cellular immune responses. All of these applications are significantly improved by the application of in vivo electroporation. Importantly, the increased efficiency of plasmid delivery following electroporation is seen in larger species as well as rodents, in contrast to the decreasing efficiencies with increasing body size for simple intramuscular injection of naked plasmid DNA. As this electroporation-enhanced non-viral gene delivery system works well in larger species and avoids the vector-specific immune responses associated with recombinant viruses, the prospects for clinical application are promising.


We previously demonstrated a high susceptibility of neonatal red blood cells (RBC) to oxidative stress at birth. The aim of this study was to compare the RBC antioxidant capacity and redox cycle enzyme activities as well as glutathione (GSH) recycling in full-term and preterm infants at birth and in normal adults. GSH and GSH disulfide (GSSG) concentrations, GSH/GSSG ratio, and the activities of glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase (G-6-PDH), GSH peroxidase, GSH reductase (GR), catalase (CAT), superoxide dismutase (SOD), and hexokinase (HK) were measured in RBC of 25 healthy adults and 56 newborns (23 term, 33 preterm) at birth. The GSH recycling was measured in adult and newborn RBC exposed to oxidative stress (1 mM tert-butylhydroperoxide). The RBC of term and preterm babies showed higher GSH, GSSG, G-6-PDH, GR, and HK levels/activities and lower GSH/GSSG ratios and higher GSH-recycling rates than those of adults. In preterm babies significant correlations were found between G-6-PDH and CAT, GSH, GSH/GSSG ratio, and GSSG (r = -0.67, r = 0.71, r = -0.66, p &lt; 0.01; r = 0.71, p &lt; 0.05, respectively). In term newborns, statistically significant correlations were observed between G-6-PDH and CAT, SOD, and GSH (r = -0.65, r = -0.65, r = -0.69, p &lt; 0.01, respectively). The results indicate the central role of the G-6-PDH activity in antioxidant defenses. We speculate that preterm babies have prompter involvement of antioxidant defenses than term babies.
Caenorhabditis elegans is an attractive model system for determining the targets of neuroactive compounds. Genetic screens in C. elegans provide a relatively unbiased approach to the identification of genes that are essential for behavioral effects of drugs and neuroactive compounds such as alcohol. Much work in vertebrate systems has identified multiple potential targets of ethanol but which, if any, of those candidates are responsible for the behavioral effects of alcohol is uncertain. Here we provide detailed methodology for a genetic screen for mutants of C. elegans that are resistant to the depressive effects of ethanol on locomotion and for the subsequent behavioral analysis of those mutants. The methods we describe should also be applicable for use in screening for mutants that are resistant or hypersensitive to many neuroactive compounds and for identifying the molecular targets or biochemical pathways mediating drug responses.

In neurons, depolarizing stimuli open voltage-gated Ca2+ channels, leading to Ca2+ entry and a rise in the cytoplasmic free Ca2+ concentration ([Ca2+]i). While such [Ca2+]i elevations are initiated by Ca2+ entry, they are also influenced by Ca2+ transporting organelles such as mitochondria and the endoplasmic reticulum (ER). This review summarizes contributions from the ER to depolarization-evoked [Ca2+]i responses in sympathetic neurons. As in other neurons, ER Ca2+ uptake depends on SERCAs, while passive Ca2+ release depends on ryanodine receptors (RyRs). RyRs are Ca2+ permeable channels that open in response to increases in [Ca2+]i, thereby permitting [Ca2+]i elevations to trigger Ca2+ release through Ca(2+)-induced Ca2+ release (CICR). However, whether this leads to net Ca2+ release from the ER critically depends upon the relative rates of Ca2+ uptake and release. We found that when RyRs are sensitized with caffeine, small evoked [Ca2+]i elevations do trigger net Ca2+ release, but in the absence of caffeine, net Ca2+ uptake occurs, indicating that Ca2+ uptake is stronger than Ca2+ release under these conditions. Nevertheless, by increasing ER Ca2+ permeability, RyRs reduce the strength of Ca2+ buffering by the ER in a [Ca2+](I)-dependent manner, providing a novel mechanism for [Ca2+]i response acceleration. Analysis of the underlying Ca2+ fluxes provides an explanation of this and two other modes of CICR that are revealed as [Ca2+]i elevations become progressively larger.
The fatty acid amide class of compounds, which include the endocannabinoid anandamide and the sleep-inducing compound oleamide, have been shown in vitro to have a multiplicity of actions upon different neurochemical systems. In the present issue of this journal, Leggett et al present data indicating that oleamide functionally activates CB(1) cannabinoid receptors in vitro. The significance of their finding is discussed in this commentary.
1. The ORL1 agonists nociceptin and Ro 64-6198 were compared in their ability to modify spontaneous locomotor activity in male NMRI mice not habituated to the test environment. 2. Higher doses of nociceptin (&gt;5 nmol i.c.v.) reduced whereas lower doses (&lt;1 nmol i.c.v.) stimulated locomotor activity. Both effects were blocked by the putative ORL1 antagonists [NPhe1]nociceptin(1-13)NH2 (10 nmol i.c.v.) and UFP101 (10 nmol, i.c.v.). The effects were also blocked by naloxone benzoylhydrazone (1 mg x kg(-1) s.c.), but not by the nonselective opioid antagonist naloxone (1 mg x kg(-1) s.c.). 3 In contrast to nociceptin, the synthetic ORL1 agonist Ro 64-6198 (0.01-1.0 mg x kg(-1) i.p.) produced monophasic inhibition of locomotor activity, which was insensitive to the treatment with [NPhe1]nociceptin(1-13)NH2 or naloxone benzoylhydrazone. Treatment with UFP101 abolished the locomotor inhibition induced by Ro 64-6198 (1.0 mg x kg(-1)), whereas naloxone (1.0 mg x kg(-1), s.c.) further increased the locomotor-inhibitory effects. 4. Naloxone benzoylhydrazone (0.3; 1.0 and 3.0 mg x kg(-1) s.c.) increased locomotor activity, although the effect was statistically significant only with the highest dose used. 5. Pretreatment with the tyrosine hydroxylase inhibitor H44-68 totally eliminated the motor-stimulatory effects of low doses of nociceptin, probably via dopamine depletion. 6. The results suggest that nociceptin stimulates locomotor activity at low doses if dopamine activity is intact. High doses of nociceptin and all the tested doses of Ro 64-6198 seem to interact with a functionally different subset of ORL1 receptors. In addition, the effects of Ro 64-6198 are modulated by tonic opioid receptor activity.


Classically, the course of Charcot-Marie-Tooth (CMT) disease is gradually progressive. We describe eight atypical patients who developed acute or subacute deterioration. Seven of these had genetically proven CMT disease type 1A (CMT1A) due to chromosome 17p11.2-12 duplication, and one had X-linked disease (CMTX) due to a mutation in the GJB1 gene. In this group there was sufficient clinical, electrophysiological and neuropathological information to indicate a diagnosis of a superimposed inflammatory polyneuropathy. The age range of the patients was 18-69 years, with a mean of 39 years. A family history of a similar neuropathic condition was present in only four patients. All eight had an acute or subacute deterioration following a long asymptomatic or stable period. Seven had neuropathic pain or prominent positive sensory symptoms. Nerve biopsy demonstrated excess lymphocytic infiltration in all eight patients. Five patients were treated with steroids and/or intravenous immunoglobulin, with variable positive response; three patients received no immunomodulatory treatment. Inflammatory neuropathy has previously been recognized in patients with hereditary neuropathy, with uncharacterized genetic defects and with CMT1B. We present detailed assessments of patients with CMT1A and CMTX, including nerve biopsy, and conclude that coexistent inflammatory neuropathy is not genotype-specific in hereditary motor and sensory neuropathy. Although this was not a formal epidemiological study, estimates of the prevalence of CMT disease and chronic inflammatory demyelinating polyneuropathy indicate that the association is more frequent than would be expected by chance. This has implications for understanding the pathogenesis of inflammatory neuropathies and raises important considerations in the management of patients with hereditary neuropathies. If a patient with CMT disease experiences an acute or subacute deterioration in clinical condition, treatment of a coexistent inflammatory neuropathy with steroids or immunoglobulin should be considered.
Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease type 1A (CMT1A) is commonly considered a prototype of a hereditary demyelinating polyneuropathy. Apart from the myelin involvement, there has been little information on axonal membrane properties in this condition. Taking advantage of the uniform nature of the disease process, we undertook the in vivo assessment of multiple axonal excitability properties at the median nerve in nine CMT1A patients with PMP22 (peripheral myelin protein 22) gene duplication and 53 controls. The thresholds of CMT1A patients were much higher than normal, and threshold electrotonus (TE) exhibited a consistent pattern of abnormalities: early steep changes (fanning out) of both hyperpolarizing and depolarizing responses were followed by increased inward rectification to hyperpolarizing currents and unusually fast accommodation to depolarizing currents. Strength-duration time constants and the shapes of recovery cycles were normal, although refractoriness and superexcitability were reduced relative to controls. The high thresholds and early fanning out of electrotonus indicated altered cable properties, such that a greater proportion than normal of applied currents reached internodal rather than nodal axolemma. The rapid accommodation to depolarizing currents suggested activation of fast K+ channels, which are normally sequestered from the nodal membrane. The excitability abnormalities are therefore consistent with a demyelinating pathology and exposure or spread of K+ channels from under the myelin. It remains to be seen whether the TE abnormalities in CMT1A, which resemble previous recordings from normal immature rats, can be distinguished from those in acquired demyelinating neuropathies.
Cerebral small vessel disease (SVD) causes focal lacunar infarction and more diffuse ischaemia, referred to as leukoaraiosis. Endothelial dysfunction has been proposed as a causal mechanism in the disease. Homocysteine is toxic to endothelium. We determined whether elevated homocysteine levels and the methylene tetrahydrofolate reductase (MTHFR) C677T polymorphism are risk factors for SVD as a whole, and for two different SVD subtypes: isolated lacunar infarction and ischaemic leukoaraiosis. We also determined whether any association was mediated by endothelial dysfunction, as assessed by circulating endothelial markers. One hundred and seventy-two Caucasian patients with SVD and 172 community controls of similar age and sex were studied. Serum homocysteine measurement and MTHFR genotyping was performed. Levels of intercellular adhesion molecule 1 (ICAM1) and thrombomodulin were measured in a subgroup. Mean homocysteine levels were higher in SVD than controls [14.55 micromol/l [95% confidence interval (CI) 13.78-15.35] versus 12.01 micromol/l (95% CI 11.42-12.64), P &lt; 0.0005]. Homocysteine was a stronger risk factor in those with ischaemic leukoaraiosis [12.92 (95% CI 4.40-37.98), P &lt; 0.0005) per micromol increase in log homocysteine concentration (P &lt; 0.0005)] in comparison with isolated lacunar infarction [4.22 (95% CI 1.29-13.73), P = 0.02] after controlling for both conventional risk factors and age. The MTHFR 677T allele was a risk factor only in the ischaemic leukoaraiosis group [odds ratio (OR) 2.02 (95% CI 1.31-3.1), P = 0.001]. Inclusion of the endothelial markers ICAM1 and thrombomodulin in a logistic regression model resulted in the association between homocysteine and SVD no longer being significant. In conclusion, hyperhomocysteinaemia is an independent risk factor for SVD, particularly ischaemic leukoaraiosis, and this effect may be mediated via endothelial dysfunction. Homocysteine-lowering therapy may be particularly effective in this subgroup.
In 1916, von Economo first described encephalitis lethargica (EL), a CNS disorder presenting with pharyngitis followed by sleep disorder, basal ganglia signs (particularly parkinsonism) and neuropsychiatric sequelae. Since the 1916-1927 epidemic, only sporadic cases have been described. Pathological studies revealed an encephalitis of the midbrain and basal ganglia, with lymphocyte (predominantly plasma cell) infiltration. The EL epidemic occurred during the same time period as the 1918 influenza pandemic, and the two outbreaks have been linked in the medical literature. However, von Economo and other contemporary scientists thought that the 1918 influenza virus was not the cause of EL. Recent examination of archived EL brain material has failed to demonstrate influenza RNA, adding to the evidence that EL was not an invasive influenza encephalitis. By contrast, the findings of intrathecal oligoclonal bands (OCB) and beneficial effects of steroid treatments have provoked the hypothesis that EL may be immune-mediated. We have recently seen 20 patients with a similar EL phenotype, 55% of whom had a preceding pharyngitis. The patients had remarkable similarity to the historical descriptions of EL: sleep disorder (somnolence, sleep inversion or insomnia), lethargy, parkinsonism, dyskinesias and neuropsychiatric symptoms. CSF examination commonly showed elevated protein and OCB (75 and 69% respectively). Investigation found no evidence of viral encephalitis or other recognized causes of rapid-onset parkinsonism. MRI of the brain was normal in 60% but showed inflammatory changes localized to the deep grey matter in 40% of patients. We investigated the possibility that this phenotype could be a postinfectious autoimmune CNS disorder, and therefore similar to Sydenham's chorea. Anti-streptolysin-O titres were elevated in 65% of patients. Furthermore, western immunoblotting showed that 95% of EL patients had autoantibodies reactive against human basal ganglia antigens. These antibodies were also present in the CSF in four patients tested. By contrast, antibodies reactive against the basal ganglia were found in only 2-4% of child and adult controls (n = 173, P &lt; 0.0001). Rather than showing polyspecific binding, these antibodies bound to common neural autoantigens of molecular weight 40, 45, 60 and 98 kDa. Regional tissue comparisons showed that the majority of these autoantigens were specific to or enriched in CNS tissue. Immunohistochemistry with secondary staining localized antibody binding to neurons rather than glial populations. Further investigation is required to determine whether these antibodies affect neuronal function (i.e. whether they are pathogenic anti-neuronal antibodies). Histopathology in one case demonstrated striatal encephalitis with perivenous B- and T-lymphocytic infiltration. We believe an EL-like syndrome is still prevalent, and propose that this syndrome may be secondary to autoimmunity against deep grey matter neurons.
The gustatory system in vertebrates comprises peripheral receptors (taste buds), innervated by three cranial nerves (VII, IX, and X), and a series of central neural centers and pathways. All vertebrates, with the exception of hagfishes, have taste buds. These receptors vary morphologically in different vertebrates but usually consist of at least four types of cells (dark, light, basal, and stem cells). An out-group analysis indicates that taste buds were restricted to the oropharynx, primitively, and that external taste buds, distributed over the head and, in some cases, even the trunk, evolved a number of times independently. The sensory neurons of the cranial nerves that innervate taste buds are believed to arise from epibranchial placodes, which are induced by pharyngeal endoderm, but it has never been demonstrated experimentally that these sensory neurons do, in fact, arise from these placodes. Although many details of the development of the innervation of taste buds are still unknown, it is now clear that taste buds are induced from either ecto- or endodermal epithelia, rather than arising from either placodes or neural crest. At present, there are two developmental models of taste bud induction: The neural induction model claims that peripheral nerve fibers induce taste buds, whereas the early specification model claims that oropharyngeal epithelium is specified by or during gastrulation and that taste buds arise from cell-cell interactions within the specified epithelium. There is now substantial evidence that the early specification model best describes the induction of taste buds.
The selective advantages of using light as a source of information are reflected in the diverse types of extant eyes. The physical properties of light restrict how it can be collected and processed, resulting in only eight known optical systems found in animals. Eyes develop through tissue rearrangement and differentiation. Our understanding of the source of genetic information used in developmental programs is growing rapidly and reveals distributions of gene expression with substantial overlap in both time and space. Specific genes and their products are used repeatedly, making causal relationships more difficult to discern. The phenomenon of groups of genes acting together seems to be the rule. Throughout evolution, particular genes have become associated with distinct aspects of eye development, and these suites of genes have been recruited repeatedly as new eyes evolved.
An in vitro brain stem preparation from turtles exhibits a neural correlate of eyeblink classical conditioning during pairing of auditory (CS) and trigeminal (US) nerve stimulation while recording from the abducens nerve. The premotor neuronal circuits controlling abducens nerve-mediated eyeblinks in turtles have not been previously described, which is a necessary step for understanding cellular mechanisms of conditioning in this preparation. The purpose of the present study was to neuroanatomically define the premotor pathways that underlie the trigeminal and auditory nerve-evoked abducens eyeblink responses. The results show that the principal sensory trigeminal nucleus forms a disynaptic pathway from both the trigeminal and auditory nerves to the principal and accessory abducens motor nuclei. Additionally, the principal abducens nucleus receives vestibular inputs, whereas the accessory nucleus receives input from the cochlear nucleus. The late R2-like component of abducens nerve responses is mediated by the spinal trigeminal nucleus in the medulla. Both the principal sensory trigeminal nucleus and the abducens motor nuclei receive CS-US convergence and therefore both, or either, might be considered potential sites of synapse modification during in vitro abducens conditioning. Further data are required to determine the role of the principal sensory trigeminal nucleus in in vitro conditioning.
Throat fan (dewlap) extension is sexually dimorphic in green anole lizards (Anolis carolinensis). Males have larger dewlaps which they display more frequently than females. Correlated with the behavior, sexual dimorphisms occur in the skeletal, muscular and neural structures responsible for dewlap extension in green anoles. We used histochemical techniques to stain for myosin ATPase and succinate dehydrogenase (SDH) to determine whether sex differences also exist in fiber type composition of the ceratohyoideus, the muscle that extends the dewlap. Based on the staining pattern for the two enzymes, four fiber types were identified: fast-oxidative-glycolytic (FOG), fast-glycolytic (FG), slow-oxidative (SO), and tonic. In the ceratohyoideus of both sexes, the predominate fiber types were FOG (approximately 43%) and FG (approximately 34%). Also in both males and females, the FOG and FG fibers had approximately twice the cross-sectional area of the SO and tonic fibers. No sex differences occurred in the percentages of FOG and FG fibers. However, males had a greater percentage of tonic fibers than females, whereas females had a greater percentage of SO fibers than males. The high proportion of FOG fibers in the anole ceratohyoideus makes it similar to other relatively fatigue-resistant muscles used in movements of moderate speed and duration. Although the precise role of tonic fibers in dewlap extension is not known, the greater percentage of these fibers in the male ceratohyoideus might be required to stabilize or maintain extension of the large dewlap apparatus in males.
The dorsal (P2) and lateral (P3) pallial zones of bichirs receive a substantial projection from nucleus medianus of the posterior tuberculum. Although nucleus medianus does not receive a direct retinal input, its close proximity to ascending tectal efferents suggests that it might receive a tectal input and form a segment of a retinotectal-tubercular pathway to the pallium. In order to test this possibility, evoked responses to light flashes were electrophysiologically recorded and tectal efferents were experimentally determined in bichirs. These experiments suggest that a single visual field exists across the dorsal and lateral pallial zones and that this field is mediated by nucleus medianus, which does receive a direct tectal projection. This visual pathway appears to be uniquely derived and not homologous to any other known pathway in tetrapods. Furthermore, these results support the contention that the P2 and P3 pallial zones in bichirs are subdivisions of a single pallial zone.
Vertebrate brains vary tremendously in size, but differences in form are more subtle. To bring out functional contrasts that are independent of absolute size, we have normalized brain component sizes to whole brain volume. The set of such volume fractions is the cerebrotype of a species. Using this approach in mammals we previously identified specific associations between cerebrotype and behavioral specializations. Among primates, cerebrotypes are linked principally to enlargement of the cerebral cortex and are associated with increases in the complexity of social structure. Here we extend this analysis to include a second major vertebrate group, the birds. In birds the telencephalic volume fraction is strongly correlated with social complexity. This correlation accounts for almost half of the observed variation in telencephalic size, more than any other behavioral specialization examined, including the ability to learn song. A prominent exception to this pattern is owls, which are not social but still have very large forebrains. Interpolating the overall correlation for Archaeopteryx, an ancient bird, suggests that its social complexity was likely to have been on a par with modern domesticated chickens. Telencephalic volume fraction outperforms residuals-based measures of brain size at separating birds by social structure. Telencephalic volume fraction may be an anatomical substrate for social complexity, and perhaps cognitive ability, that can be generalized across a range of vertebrate brains, including dinosaurs.
New research in conditioned enhancement of antibody response requires a general paradigm effective with different antigens. In this experiment series we applied a one-trial protocol using keyhole limpet hemocyanin immunization as an unconditioned stimulus. Several different conditions were tested. Two different times between conditioning and test trial, two relevant antigen doses and the use of an antigen booster during test trial were investigated. We did not find a conditioned effect in any of the conditions used. In contrast, we found a reliable albeit modest conditioned effect using hen egg lysozyme as unconditioned stimulus. By comparing these and other findings we conclude that the number of conditioning trials is a possible requirement for a more reliable conditioning of antibody response.
Bacterial superantigens, such as staphylococcal enteroxins A and B (SEA/SEB) stimulate T cells to produce high levels of cytokines in blood. Previously it had been shown that these toxins were capable of stimulating increased neuroendocrine activity and enhanced behavioral reactivity to novel gustatory and non-gustatory stimuli. Therefore, it was suggested that these superantigens may promote anxiety-like behavior. In the current set of experiments, BALB/cByJ and C57BL/6J male mice were challenged with either SEB (50 microg) or SEA (5 or 10 microg) and tested for behavior in the elevated plus maze (EPM). Results suggested an absence of increased anxiety-like behavior, with exploration of the open arms being enhanced by SEA or SEB treatment. In another test of anxiety, the light-dark box, SEB challenge of BALB/cByJ mice 90 min prior to testing, did not alter exit latency, activity nor time spent in the dark. However, in a second experiment, it was found that if animals were first tested for consumption, followed by testing in the light-dark box, SEB challenged animals displayed increased exit latency and reduced exploration. These studies suggest that in standard tests of rodent anxiety-like behavior, evidence for the induction of anxiety-like processes subsequent to challenge with SEA or SEB is not patently discernable. However, neurobiological events induced by immunological challenge might synergize with reactivity to psychogenic and/or gustatory stimuli, thereby resulting in increased anxiety-like behavior that could be unmasked by standard behavioral tests such as the light-dark box or EPM.
The aim of this paper was to systematically review the research published in English language on the effectiveness of drugs for the treatment of neurobehavioural disorders in patients with traumatic brain injury (TBI). A literature search using Medline, Pre-Medline, Embase, Psychlit and Cochrane Library databases between 1990 and January 2003 as well as a hand search of Brain Injury since 1996 were carried out. Phrases such as 'head injury', 'brain injury', 'drug treatment', 'drug trials' and 'randomized controlled trials' were used. Sixty-three papers were selected for data synthesis. Of these, 13 were randomized controlled trials, eight were prospective observational studies, four were retrospective studies, 25 were case series and 13 were single case studies. There was a dearth of type I-III evidence. There was no strong evidence either way to suggest that drugs are effective in the treatment of behaviour disorders in patients with TBI. However, there was weak evidence, primarily based on case studies that psychostimulants are effective in the treatment of apathy, inattention and slowness; high dose beta-blockers in the treatment of agitation and aggression; anti-convulsants and anti-depressants (particularly SSRIs) in the treatment of agitation and aggression, particularly in the context of an affective disorder; and possibly a specific neuroleptic methotrimeprazine in the treatment of agitation in the post-acute stage of Acquired Brain Injury. Some drugs that are effective in some patients have been shown to be ineffective in others. Some drugs, particularly lithium and dopaminergic drugs could cause adverse effects and deterioration in some patients.
Hemispheric specialization for language is one of the most robust findings of cognitive neuroscience. In this review, we first present the main hypotheses about the origins of this important aspect of brain organization. These theories are based in part on the main approaches to hemispheric specialization: studies of aphasia, anatomical asymmetries and, nowadays, neuroimaging. All these approaches uncovered a large inter-individual variability which became the bulk of research on hemispheric specialization. This is why, in a second part of the review, we present the main facts about inter-individual variability, trying to relate findings to the theories presented in the first part. This review focuses on neuroimaging as it has recently given important results, thanks to investigations of both anatomical and functional asymmetries in healthy subjects. Such investigations have confirmed that left-handers, especially &quot;familial left-handers&quot;, are more likely to have an atypical pattern of hemispheric specialization for language. Differences between men and women seem less evident although a less marked hemispheric specialization for language was depicted in women. As for the supposed relationship between anatomical and functional asymmetries, it has been shown that the size of the left (not the right) planum temporale could explain part of the variability of left hemispheric specialization for language comprehension. Taken as a whole, findings seem to vary with language tasks and brain regions, therefore showing that hemispheric specialization for language is multi-dimensional. This is not accounted for in the existing models of hemispheric specialization.
The present experiment was aimed at investigating the on-line processing of semantic and prosodic information. We recorded the Event-Related brain Potentials (ERPs) to semantically and/or prosodically congruous and incongruous sentences that were presented aurally, to study the time course of semantic and prosodic processing, and to determine whether these two processes are independent or interactive. The prosodic mismatch was produced by cross-splicing the beginning of statements with the end of questions, and vice-versa. Subjects had to decide whether the sentences were semantically or prosodically congruous in two different attention conditions. Results showed that a right centro-parietal negative component (N400) was associated with semantic mismatch, and a left temporo-parietal positive component (P800) was associated with prosodic mismatch. Thus, these two electrophysiological markers of semantic and prosodic processing differed in their polarity, latency and scalp distribution. These differences may indicate that the two processes stem from different underlying generators. However, the finding that the P800 elicited by prosodic mismatch was larger when the sentences were semantically incongruous than congruous suggests that the two processes may be interactive.
Language acquisition crucially depends on the ability of the child to segment the incoming speech stream. Behavioral evidence supports the hypothesis that infants are sensitive to the rhythmic properties of the language input. We recorded event-related potentials (ERPs) to varying stress patterns of two syllable items in adults as well as in 4- and 5-month-old infants using a mismatch negativity (MMN) paradigm. Adult controls displayed a typical MMN to the trochaic item (stress on the first syllable) as well as to the iambic (stress on the second syllable) item. At the age of 4 months, no reliable discrimination response was seen. However, at the age of 5 months, a significant mismatch response (MMR) was observed for the trochaic item, indicating that the trochee, i.e. the most common stress pattern in German, was separated consistently from the iambic item. Hence, the present data demonstrate a clear development between 4 and 5 months with respect to the processing of different stress patterns relevant for word recognition. Moreover, possible contributions of different filter settings to the morphology of the mismatch response in infants are discussed.
Human violence does not stem from any specific biological substrate. As affective processes play a pre-eminent role in the elaboration and evolution of social interactions, a &quot;biology of violence&quot; draws essentially upon the concepts, methods and techniques of &quot;affective neuroscience&quot;.
The ability to find our way around an environment and to remember the events that occur within it are fundamental to normal functioning in daily life. Impairment of these abilities are among the first symptoms to be reported in patients with pathologies such as Alzheimer's disease and anoxia that are linked to the hippocampus and other limbic structures. However, many questions remain unanswered regarding the nature and neural bases of these memories. Findings from functional neuroimaging studies offer insights into the anatomy of memory and the presentation of memory impairments. In particular, neuroimaging is well placed to inform about the functionality of residual brain tissue, and the plasticity of memory anatomy in the context of hippocampal damage, and normal ageing.

It was previously shown that carvedilol, a beta-adrenergic receptor antagonist with antioxidant properties, was able to inhibit the mitochondrial permeability transition (MPT). In the present work, the hypothesis was that the negative impact of carvedilol on the MPT was specifically the result of its antioxidant effect. For the current investigation, we used three different MPT inducers. MPT-associated events were tested to study the protective effect of both carvedilol and cyclosporin-A, the known MPT inhibitor. Carvedilol inhibited mitochondrial swelling with calcium plus phosphate and with calcium plus t-butylhydroperoxide, but not with calcium plus carboxyatractyloside. Carvedilol inhibited the oxidation of thiol groups with calcium plus phosphate (p &lt; 0.01) and with calcium plus t-butylhydroperoxide (p &lt; 0.05), but not with calcium plus carboxyatractyloside--in opposition to the full protection afforded by cyclosporin-A when using calcium and carboxyatractyloside. Our results showed that carvedilol was effective only when the MPT was triggered by a primary oxidative process. This finding implies that the antioxidant properties of carvedilol are crucial for the observed effects and reinforces the advantageous use of carvedilol in cardiac pathologies associated with enhanced cellular oxidative stress.
Introduction describes historical relations between neurology and psychiatry. Both disciplines are now much nearer to each other than before--they have received similar diagnostic tools and they have similar therapeutic methods. Psychiatry is considered to be an integral part of neuroscience. The article reviews findings on the structural and functional changes accompanying the most serious psychiatric diseases and the growing role of the brain imaging methods is depicted.
The physiological quantal responses at the neuromuscular junction and the bouton-neuron show two classes based on amplitude such that the larger class is about 10 times that of the smaller class; and, the larger class is composed of the smaller class. The ratio of the two classes changes with synaptogenesis, degeneration, nerve stimulation, and is readily altered with various challenges (ionic, tonicity, pharmacological agents). Statistical analyses demonstrate that each bouton or release site at the neruomuscular junction (NMJ) secretes a standard amount of transmitter (one quantum) with each action potential. The amount of transmitter secreted (quantal size) is frequency dependent. The quantal-vesicular-exocytotic (QVE) hypothesis posits that the packet of secreted transmitter is released from one vesicle by exocytosis. The QVE hypothesis neither explains two quantal classes and subunits nor exocytosis of only one vesicle at each site. The latter observation requires a mechanism to select one vesicle from each array. Our porocytosis hypothesis states that the quantal packet is pulsed from an array of secretory pores. A salt shaker delivers a standard pinch of salt with each shake because salt flows through all openings in the cap. The variation in the pinch of salt or transmitter decreases with an increase in array size. The docked vesicles, paravesicular matrix, and porosomes (pores) of a release site form the secretory unit. In analogy with the sacromere as the functional unit of skeletal muscle, we term the array of docked vesicles and paravesicular grid along with the array of postsynaptic receptors a synaptomere. Pulsed secretion from an array explains the substructure of the postsynaptic response (quantum). The array guarantees a constant amount of secretion with each action potential and permits a given synapse to function in different responses because different frequencies would secrete signature amounts of transmitter. Our porocytosis hypothesis readily explains a change in quantal size during learning and memory with an increase in the number of elements (docked vesicles) composing the array.
The sense of taste responds to a large variety of stimuli through specific transduction mechanisms. The molecular events in the perception of bitter taste are believed to start with the binding of specific water-soluble molecules to G-protein-coupled receptors encoded by the type 2 family of taste receptor genes and expressed at the surface of taste receptor cells. Recent advances in the identification and cloning of the complete repertoire of genes of this family in humans and rodents provide an opportunity to address unresolved questions in bitter taste. The functional characterization of some of the receptors that these genes encode suggests that it will be possible to understand more precisely their specific functions.
GDNF plays an important role in the survival and differentiation of primary dopaminergic neurons, but it requires multiple factors for its entire range of activities. This study investigated the effects of GDNF and its cofactors on the development of bFGF-responsive neural progenitor cells (NPCs), mesencephalic and cortical progenitor cells (MP and CP). Various factors were found to have significant inductive effects on the survival and maintenance of these cells in late developmental stages. MP had greater potential than CP to differentiate into dopaminergic neurons. Treatment of NPCs with GDNF and its cofactors enhanced MAP-2 and TH expression, particularly the latter. These findings suggest that NPCs, particularly MP, could develop into more specific neurons if the appropriate factors were applied during the final cell fate specification. They might thus become beneficial sources of donor cells in the treatment of neurological disorders.
Cyclin-dependent protein kinases play important roles in cell cycle progression and are attractive targets for the design of anti-proliferative drugs. Two distinct synthetic CDK1/2 inhibitors, Roscovitine and NU2058, are pharmacologically distinct in their ability to modify p53-dependent transcription and perturb cell cycle progression. Although such active-site CDK1/2 inhibitors comprise the most standard type of enzyme inhibitor, many protein kinases are proving to harbour high affinity docking sites that may provide a potentially novel interface for the design of kinase-inhibitors. We examined whether CDK2 has a docking site for its oligomeric substrate p53, whether small-peptide leads can be developed that inhibit CDK2 function, and whether such peptide-inhibitors are pharmacologically distinct from Roscovitine or NU2058. A docking site for CDK2 was identified in the tetramerization domain of p53 at a site that is distinct from the phospho-acceptor site. Peptides derived from the tetramerization domain of p53 block CDK2 phosphorylation and identification of critical CDK2 contacts in the tetramerization domain of p53 suggest that kinase docking does not require tetramerization of the substrate. Transient transfection assays were developed to show that the GFP-CDK2 docking site fusion protein (GFP-CIP) attenuates p53 activity in vivo and suppresses p21WAF1 induction which is similar to NU2058 but distinct from Roscovitine. A stable cell line with an inducible GFP-CIP gene attenuates p53 activity and induces significant cell death in a drug-resistant melanoma cell line, sensitizes cells to death induced by Doxorubicin, and suppresses cell growth in a colony formation assay. These data indicate that CDK2, in addition to cyclin A, can have a high affinity docking site for a substrate and highlights the possibility that CDK2 docking sites may represent effective targets for inhibitor design.
Osteopontin (OPN) expression in tumors is associated with more aggressive tumor growth; however, several studies have suggested that OPN as a host protein can regulate tumor growth as well. OPN is produced by macrophages and T cells, and reportedly modifies macrophage function. Here, we have investigated the effect of OPN on macrophage function, and its role in host defense against tumor growth. OPN deficient (-/-) and wild-type (WT) peritoneal macrophages were assessed for their ability to mediate cytotoxicity of tumor cells. Thioglycollate-elicited peritoneal exudate cells (PEC) were stimulated in vitro with interferon-gamma and lipopolysaccharide. [(3)H]Thymidine-labeled ras-transformed tumor cells were then added and (3)H release and nitrite accumulation were measured. OPN -/- PEC exhibited as much as a 70% reduction in cytotoxicity as compared to WT PEC. Tumor cell OPN status, on the other hand, had little effect on the extent of cytotoxicity. Production of nitrite by the PEC correlated with their capacity to kill tumor cells. L-929 cells, which are relatively resistant to nitric oxide-induced cytotoxicity and sensitive to that effected by TNF-alpha, were killed equally well by wild-type and OPN-deficient PEC, suggesting that the effect of OPN is not mediated through TNF-alpha. No difference was seen in the cytotoxicity of resident macrophages from mice of different genotypes, indicating that the defect in the OPN-deficient macrophages may result from altered differentiation in vivo. In support of this idea, we show that the expression of the macrophage markers F4/80 in peritoneal cells and of Mac-2 in spleen cells is altered in OPN -/- mice as compared to WT. These data support the hypothesis that host-derived osteopontin may inhibit tumor growth and provide a mechanism for this effect.
The influenza virus enters target cells via the action of hemagglutinin proteins (HA) inserted into the viral envelope. HA promotes membrane fusion between the viral envelope and endosomal membrane at low pH, following viral binding to sialic acid-containing receptors on target cells, and internalization by endocytosis. The effect of target membrane sialic acid residues on the fusion activity of the influenza virus towards model membranes was evaluated by both reduction, (i.e. treating somatic cells with neuraminidase- (NA-) prior to virus-cell interactions), and by supplementing liposomes with the gangliosides GD1a and GT1b. The harshness of the neuraminidase pretreatment of target cells required to affect virus-induced membrane merging was found to greatly depend on the assay conditions, i.e. whether a virus-cell prebinding step at neutral pH was included prior to acidification. Minor concentrations of neuraminidase were found to greatly reduce virus fusion, but only in the absence of a prebinding step; they had no effect if this step was included. Although membrane merging was greatly reduced following cell neuraminidase pretreatment, virus-cell association at low pH was not disturbed proportionately. This probably reflects unspecific virus-cell binding under these conditions, probably of inactivated or aggregated virus particles, which does not translate into membrane merging. This seems to suggest both that target membrane sialic acid can protect the virus from losing its activity before triggering membrane merging, and that the importance of this interaction is not merely to ensure virus-target proximity. With liposomes, we found that both types of ganglioside supported efficient fusion, with GD1a promoting a slightly faster initial rate. However, in this case, virus-target proximity closely mirrored fusion activity, thus pointing to differential specificity between targets routinely used to assay influenza virus fusion activity.

G(16) can couple indiscriminately to a large number of G protein-coupled receptors (GPCRs), making it a prime candidate as a universal adaptor for GPCRs. In order to increase the promiscuity of Galpha(16), three chimeras incorporating increasing lengths of G(s)-specific residues (25, 44 or 81 residues) into the C-terminus of Galpha(16) were constructed and named 16s25, 16s44 and 16s81, respectively. The chimeras were examined for their ability to mediate receptor-induced stimulation of phospholipase C (PLC) and Ca(2+) mobilization. 16s25 was more effective than 16s44 and 16s81 at coupling to G(s)-linked receptors. 16s25 coupled productively to 10 different G(s)-coupled receptors examined and, for 50% of these receptors, 16s25-mediated PLC activities were higher than those mediated via Galpha(16). Similar results were observed for agonist-induced Ca(2+) mobilizations. These results show that incorporating the alpha5 helix of Galpha(s) into Galpha(16) can increase the promiscuity of 16s25 towards G(s)-coupled receptors.
The development of cell replacement therapies for the treatment of neurodegenerative disorders such as Parkinson's disease (PD) may depend upon the successful differentiation of human neural stem/progenitor cells into dopamine (DA) neurons. We show here that primary human neural progenitors (HNPs) can be expanded and maintained in culture both as neurospheres (NSPs) and attached monolayers where they develop into neurons and glia. When transplanted into the 6-hydroxydopamine-lesioned rat striatum, undifferentiated NSPs survive longer (60% graft survival at 8-16 weeks vs. 30% graft survival at 8-13 weeks) and migrate farther than their attached counterparts. While both NSP and attached cells continue to express neuronal traits after transplantation, the spontaneous expression of differentiated transmitter-related traits is not observed in either cell type. However, following predifferentiation in culture using a previously described cocktail of reagents, approximately 25% of HNPs can permanently express the DA enzyme tyrosine hydroxylase (TH), even following replating and removal of the DA differentiation cocktail. When these predifferentiated HNPs are transplanted into the brain, however, TH staining is not observed, either because expression is lost or TH-expressing cells preferentially die. Consistent with the latter view is a decrease in total cell survival and migration, and an enhanced glial response in these grafts. In contrast, we found that the overall survival of HNPs is improved when cells engraft near blood vessels or CSF compartments or when they are placed into an intact unlesioned brain, suggesting that there are factors, as yet unidentified, that can better support the development of engrafted HNPs.
The expression of P2X and P2Y receptor subtypes in the smooth muscle of the rat ovary during the oestrus cycle and pregnancy was examined using immunohistochemistry. RT-PCR studies of P2X receptor mRNA were also carried out. In the non-pregnant rats, P2X2 receptor protein was dominant in the smooth muscle of perifollicular rings and blood vessels. P2X1 protein expression was seen on vascular smooth muscle too, but little, if any, was present on perifollicular smooth muscle. No changes in P2X1 or P2X2 receptor expression were seen during the oestrous cycle. During early and mid-late pregnancy, there was a switch from P2X2 to P2X1 receptor protein expression in the smooth muscle of the perifollicular ring; P2X1 receptors were also more prominently expressed than P2X2 receptors on ovarian vascular smooth muscle in non-pregnant animals, but during late pregnancy the expression of P2X2 receptors was found to equal that of the P2X1 receptors. There was a return to non-pregnant P2 receptor subtype distribution 2 days after birth. Ovarian vascular and perifollicular smooth muscle showed immunoreactivity for P2Y1, but not for P2X3-7, P2Y2 or P2Y4 receptors. P2Y1 receptor expression in ovarian smooth muscle of both blood vessels and follicular rings did not show significant changes during the oestrus cycle or pregnancy. RT-PCR studies indicated that P2X1 and P2X2 receptor mRNA was present in the ovary during pregnant and non-pregnant conditions. P2X4-6 receptor mRNA was also present in all stages studied, however no immunostaining showing receptor protein for these subtypes was seen on the ovarian sections examined. In summary, purinergic signalling to ovarian perifollicular smooth muscle changed from P2X2 to P2X1 receptors during pregnancy, while there was an increase in P2X2 receptor expression on vascular smooth muscle.
Previous work in our laboratory showed that pre-Sertoli cells adopt an epithelial phenotype when cultured in the presence of reconstituted basement membrane (RBM), and so cultures were established with and without this substrate. Biological activity of isolated developing mouse Sertoli cells maintained in vitro was assessed in the current study by utilising a co-culture approach, to determine whether the cells were capable of affecting ovarian differentiation. Developing Sertoli cells isolated at embryonic day (E) 12.5 exerted a deleterious effect on E12.5 ovaries in co-culture, inducing a loss of germ cells. However, when cells were isolated a day later and co-cultured with E13.5 ovaries (after entry to meiosis has begun), germ cells survived and showed evidence of meiosis, although ovigerous cords in co-cultures were masculinized compared to those of control cultured ovaries. Thus, both stages examined showed biological effects; cultured pre-Sertoli cells explanted at E12.5 showed a negative effect on female germ cells, whereas those explanted at E13.5 masculinized ovigerous cords. The functional status of isolated developing mouse Sertoli cells in vitro was further assessed by immunocytochemistry to investigate the expression of anti-Mllerian hormone, an early product of pre-Sertoli cells. Positive immunostaining was seen in developing Sertoli cells in vitro, particularly where cells had been explanted to an RBM substrate, demonstrating that good epithelial morphology is associated with improved function. Our culture system is therefore well suited for investigating factors produced by developing Sertoli cells, their role in influencing testicular morphogenesis and their potential to perturb ovarian differentiation. We believe that this in vitro approach provides a more physiological assessment compared with the knockout mouse model, where global effects of genes with housekeeping functions can compromise overall development.
The role of non-pharmacological therapies in the preventive treatment of tension-type headache (TTH) is still an object of debate. The primary aim of this study was therefore to investigate the therapeutic effect of physiotherapy in properly classified patients with TTH in a controlled trial. Fifty patients with TTH, 26 with episodic, frequent (ETTH) and 24 with chronic TTH (CTTH) fulfilling the International Headache Society classification criteria were included in the study. After a 4-week run-in period, they were randomized to either an 8-week period of standardized physiotherapy (group 1) or to an 8-week observation period followed by an identical course of physiotherapy (group 2); after the physiotherapy all patients were followed for a 12-week follow-up period. We then evaluated the number of days with headache, severity and duration of the headache attacks, and drug consumption for symptomatic treatment before and after the course of physiotherapy. Forty-eight patients completed the study. The average number of days with headache per 4-week period was reduced from 16.3 days at baseline to 12.3 days in the last 4 weeks of treatment [from 14.5 days to 10.5 days (P &lt; 0.001) in group 1 and from 18.1 days to 14.1 days (P &lt; 0.001) in group 2]. Severity and duration of headache as well as drug consumption were unchanged throughout the study. Analysing the response to treatment separately in the various subgroups, we found that the number of responders was significantly higher among patients with CTTH vs. patients with ETTH (P &lt; 0.002) and in females vs. males (P &lt; 0.02). No differences were found between patients with and without disorder of pericranial muscles. We conclude that a standardized physiotherapy programme has a good therapeutic effect, albeit on a restricted group of patients.
It has been suggested that motivational processes mediated by dopaminergic neural systems may be relatively spared in Parkinson's disease (PD) and activation of these pathways may be of therapeutic relevance. To investigate the behavioural and neural correlates of motivation in unmedicated PD patients, we used H(2)(15)O positron emission tomography to measure brain activation patterns related to the processing of monetary rewards of different magnitudes during a spatial search task in PD patients withdrawn from medication, and age-matched healthy controls. Both groups showed increased search efficiency with increasing reward, but demonstrated different patterns of neuronal activation. In healthy controls activity in prefrontal and rhinal cortices, and thalamic activity correlated with reward magnitude. In contrast, activity in the cerebellar vermis in PD patients increased with increasing reward magnitude, suggesting it was sensitive to motivational state. We interpret these relative increases in cerebellar activation as evidence for the presence of compensatory neural mechanisms in unmedicated PD patients.
We recorded human auditory cortical activity during the perception of long, changing acoustic signals and analyzed information provided by dynamic neural population measures over a large range of time intervals (approximately 24 ms-5 s). Participants listened to musical scales that were amplitude modulated at a rate of 41.5 Hz, generating an ongoing, stimulus-related oscillatory brain signal, the auditory steady-state response (aSSR). The aSSR generated energy at the amplitude modulation rate that was recorded using magnetoencephalography. As in previous work, the timing (phase) of this response varied with stimulus carrier frequency over the entire course of minute-long tone sequences ('phase tracking' of carrier frequency). The length of the time interval over which phase was calculated was systematically varied; significant phase tracking was regularly observed at analysis intervals of &lt;50 ms in length. The right auditory cortex exhibited better phase tracking performance than the left at analysis intervals of 24-240 ms, and frequency dependent phase delays were consistently larger than those predicted by cochlear mechanics. Based on these empirical data, a model of the neural populations responsible for phase tracking suggests that it is produced by a subpopulation ( approximately 25%) of the cells generating the aSSR.
Cerebral venous occlusion represents an often underdiagnosed cause for acute or slowly progressive neurological deterioration. The underlying pathophysiological basis is not well understood, but is different from those of arterial occlusion reflecting therefore different anatomical and physiological features of the cerebral venous system. Extensive collateral circulation within the cerebral venous system allows for a significant degree of compensation in the early stages of venous occlusion. Elevated cerebral venous pressure due to cerebral venous occlusion can result in a spectrum of phenomena including a dilated venous and capillary bed, development of interstitial edema, increased cerebrospinal fluid production, decreased cerebrospinal fluid absorption and rupture of venous structures (hematoma). All of these pathophysiological changes may explain the clinical observation that cerebral venous occlusion, if promptly diagnosed and adequately managed, contains reversible alterations and need not always lead to venous infarction. The present review outlines this different pathophysiological behavior of venous compared to arterial occlusion in the cerebral vasculature; special reference is given to the effect of these changes on the therapeutic impact.

The aim of imaging neuroscience is to describe the functional organization of human brain at the level of large neuronal groupings, networks and systems. The systems level of description addresses how integrated brain functions are embodied in the physical structure of the brain. Magnetic resonance imaging is currently the technique of choice for the study of cerebral structure-function relationships and the analysis of structural and functional brain images can now be carried out automatically using statistical parametric mapping. The resultant ability to perform clinical-functional-anatomical correlative studies with complete objectivity and unparalleled sensitivity is providing powerful new opportunities for studying the relationship between structure and function, and how these parameters interact with pathology. One of the most exciting and dramatic observations to come from human brain mapping has been the dynamic plasticity of function in both normal brains and the brains of patients with neurological and neuropsychiatric disorders. Recent activation studies have provided interesting information about the brain's capacity to reorganize after injury and in association with practice and learning. The emerging studies of brain plasticity and its modulation by drugs and other therapies indicate potentially useful approaches to the rehabilitation of adults with brain damage, including damage resulting from cerebral ischaemia. Brain maps must therefore be viewed as dynamic, changing with development, disease progression, normal learning and in parallel with the recovery of function after acute injury. The dynamic plasticity of functional brain maps provides an exciting opportunity to study these processes.


Taurine (TAU) is a free amino acid that is particularly abundant in the olfactory bulb. In the frog, TAU is located in the terminations of the primary olfactory axons and in the granular cell layer. TAU action seems to be associated with gamma amino butyric acid (GABA), the main inhibitory neurotransmitter involved in the processing of the sensory signal. The present study was designed to assess the action of TAU in vivo during the olfactory network's stimulation by odors. It was performed by recording the single-unit activity of mitral cells, the main bulbar output neurons. TAU effects were tested on both their spontaneous and odor-induced firing activity. Interactions between TAU and GABA were examined by analyzing TAU effects under the selective blocking action of GABAA or GABAB antagonists. TAU was found to suppress the spontaneous firing of mitral cells, mainly without altering their odor response properties. By testing GABA antagonists, we further show that TAU action is associated with GABAergic inhibitory mechanisms mainly via GABAB receptors. Thus, TAU action clearly reduces background activity in favor of the emergence of the odor-induced activity in the same manner as GABA action does via GABAB receptors. As a conclusion, we propose that, in the frog olfactory bulb, the joint actions of TAU and GABA may favor the processing of the primary sensory information by increasing the signal to noise ratio.




The first Italian national trial of external quality assessment in genetic testing was organised within the framework of the &quot;Italian National Project for Standardisation and Quality Assurance of Genetic Tests&quot;. Sixty-eight Public Health Service laboratories volunteered for the trial, which involved molecular genetic tests (cystic fibrosis, beta-thalassaemia, familial adenomatous polyposis coli and fragile-X syndrome) and cytogenetic tests (prenatal and postnatal, the latter included cancer cytogenetics). The response rate was high (88.2%). The level of analytical accuracy was good, i.e., the percentage of laboratories that correctly genotyped all samples was 89.3% for cystic fibrosis, 90.9% for beta-thalassaemia, 100% for familial adenomatous polyposis coli (despite two laboratories did not complete the analysis because the amount of DNA was considered insufficient), and 90.5% for fragile-X syndrome. Written reports differed widely and were judged &quot;inadequate&quot; in over 50% of cases. Most laboratories from the present study already have experience in previous European external quality assessments for at least one genetic test; this can explain the higher analytical accuracy in the Italian external quality assessment with respect to quality control programmes in other countries. Collaborative networks are strongly suggested to improve the quality of the reports.
Both secretory and cytosolic phospholipase A2 enzymes have been implicated in the pathogenesis of arthritis in animal models, but the exact expression patterns of the enzymes in diseased human joint tissue are uncertain. We investigated the messenger RNA expression of group IIa, IValpha and V phospholipase A2 and localized the presence of group IIa and IValpha phospholipase A2 at protein levels in articular cartilage from patients with rheumatoid arthritis, osteoarthritis and patients with non-arthritic joints. Both group IIa phospholipase A2 messenger RNA and protein were detected in all samples independent of diagnosis, but were far more prominent in cartilage from rheumatoid arthritis samples. In cartilage with rheumatoid arthritis, the enzyme was detected both within the chondrocytes and in the extracellular matrix, whereas only few osteoarthritic cartilage samples showed positive staining in the matrix. In the cartilage matrix of non-arthritic controls, group IIa phospholipase A2 was totally absent. Messenger RNA for the group IValpha and V phospholipase A2 was, except for one osteoarthritic cartilage sample, exclusively detected in rheumatoid arthritic cartilage. For group IValpha phospholipase A2 this was also confirmed at the protein level. These results suggest that each phospholipase A2 enzyme has distinct roles in both healthy and diseased joint tissue, and that the diversity and amount of enzyme correlate with the grade of inflammation and disease severity.
Although sleep disorders medicine is a relatively young discipline, understanding of the diagnosis, pathophysiology, and treatment of sleep disorders is evolving at a rapid pace. This overview discusses the history of the development of sleep disorders medicine, tracing changes in the diagnostic classification of sleep disorders as well as the role of polysomnography in diagnosis. This evolution is most evident for insomnia, one of the major sleep disturbances. The accumulation of epidemiologic data on the prevalence and temporal course of insomnia and emerging information regarding its pathophysiology derived from laboratory assessments have led to the development of new therapeutic approaches for primary insomnia and insomnia associated with medical and psychiatric disorders.


Vascular endothelial cells have been identified as a source of substance P (SP) which may act in an autocrine/paracrine fashion to bring about nitric oxide (NO)-dependent vasodilatation and mitogen-induced cell division or immunologic and inflammatory responses. Whilst SP is localised in and released from endothelial cells, an endothelial mRNA expression of SP has not previously been shown. In the present study, mRNA expression of SP in human dermal microvascular endothelial cells is demonstrated using in situ hybridisation techniques with enhancement procedures. Incubation of microvascular endothelial cells with nerve growth factor (NGF) under conditions of increased shear stress increases the mRNA expression and release of SP Endothelin (ET) release is also enhanced. These changes are pertinent to circulatory, events that may occur in Raynaud's phenomenon in systemic sclerosis.

Hemimasticatory spasm (HMS) is a rather uncommon movement disorder with a pathophysiology that is still unclear, although temporomasseter entrapment at the temporal fossa has been advanced. The authors present a case of HMS in a woman who experienced marked worsening in episode frequency and severity during pregnancy. Treatment with botulinum toxin led to marked improvement.




Multiple sclerosis (MS) is one of the most common chronic neurological diseases in young adults in western countries. An important aspect of treatment of this disease is the use of interferons (IFNs). These are molecules with antiviral, immunomodulatory, antiproliferative and hormonal activities. IFNbeta, a class I IFN, has been used extensively in the therapy of MS, particularly in its relapsing-remitting (RRMS) phase, the most frequent clinical form of the disease. Although the available evidence from published clinical trials is difficult to evaluate because of methodological differences, an unbiased review of the data reveals sufficient evidence to conclude that treatment with IFNbeta in RRMS is both efficacious and safe, at least over the periods so far investigated (up to 4-6 years). While there is no reason to suspect that IFNbeta should not continue to be efficacious and safe over the longer term, studies investigating these questions over longer periods and including greater numbers of patients are needed.
To assess the costs of switching from one antiepileptic drug (AED) to another, all associated direct and indirect costs, not only drug acquisition costs, must be considered. The perspective of the healthcare system evaluated in cost-effectiveness analysis is of crucial importance. Multiple clinical factors can influence clinical decisions regarding switching AEDs. The economic cost of poorly controlled epilepsy is enormous and the most cost-effective intervention is an AED that provides total seizure control. Cost-minimisation studies have evaluated costs associated with various medications. If only efficacy and adverse events were considered, then the 'older' AEDs were generally more cost effective than the 'newer' AEDs. Most studies only examine very specific clinical situations and are not suitable for establishing general clinical recommendations. The pharmacoeconomics of AED choice is highly country specific. While switching to generic formulations is, in general, cost effective, some changes may be detrimental and more costly than remaining on the trade name preparation. For example, as a result of differences in bioavailability and possible loss of seizure control, changing patients to generic phenytoin and carbamazepine can be problematic. Fosphenytoin may only be cost effective in certain clinical situations compared with intravenous phenytoin. Seizure control should not be sacrificed on the basis of costs alone, as the major endpoint in treating epilepsy with AEDs is seizure control without adverse effects. Switching AEDs in clinical practice still depends on the individual clinical situation and choosing AED therapy solely on the basis of initial acquisition costs is unlikely to be cost effective in the long-term care of patients with epilepsy.
Over the last 20 years, the role of adjuvant pharmacotherapy in optimising outcome in rehabilitation programmes for alcohol-dependent patients has become increasingly evident. New avenues for rational drug treatment have arisen from better understanding of the neurobiological substrates of alcohol dependence, including adaptive changes in amino acid neurotransmitter systems, stimulation of dopamine and opioid peptide systems, and, possibly, changes in serotonergic activity. Disulfiram, naltrexone and acamprosate are currently the only treatments approved for the management of alcohol dependence. However, there is still no unequivocal evidence from randomised controlled clinical trials that disulfiram improves abstinence rates over the long term. Aversive therapy with disulfiram is not without risk for certain patients, and should be closely supervised. Both naltrexone and acamprosate improve outcome in rehabilitation of alcohol-dependent patients, but seem to act on different aspects of drinking pathology. Naltrexone is thought to decrease relapse to heavy drinking by attenuating the rewarding effects of alcohol. However, data from the naltrexone clinical trial programme are somewhat inconsistent, with several large studies being negative. Acamprosate is believed to maintain abstinence by blocking the negative craving that alcohol-dependent patients experience in the absence of alcohol. The clinical development programme has involved a large number of patients and studies, of which the vast majority have shown a beneficial effect of acamprosate on increasing abstinence rates. Both drugs are generally well tolerated; nausea is reported by around 10% of patients treated with naltrexone, while the most frequent adverse effect reported with acamprosate is diarrhoea. Another opioid receptor antagonist, nalmefene, has shown promising activity in pilot studies, and may have a similar profile to naltrexone. Data from studies of SSRIs in alcohol dependence are somewhat heterogeneous, but it appears that these drugs may indirectly improve outcome by treating underlying depression rather than affecting drinking behaviour per se. Similarly, the anxiolytic buspirone may act by ameliorating underlying psychiatric pathology. Dopaminergic neuroleptics, benzodiazepines and antimanic drugs have not yet demonstrated evidence of activity in large controlled clinical trials. Trials with drugs acting at serotonin receptors have yielded disappointing results, with the possible exception of ondansetron. Because the biological basis of alcohol dependence appears to be multifactorial, the future of management of alcoholism may be combination therapy, using drugs acting on different neuronal pathways, such as acamprosate and naltrexone. Pharmacotherapy should be used in association with appropriate psychosocial support and specific treatment provided for any underlying psychiatric comorbidities.
The results of recent clinical studies have challenged our previously held view that estrogen therapy promotes neurological health and prevents or ameliorates Alzheimer's disease. A major question emerging from these studies is: how can there be such disparity between the basic science and epidemiological data that show that estrogen can protect neurons against degenerative insults and reduce the risk of Alzheimer's disease and the recent data (from the Women's Health Initiative Memory Study [WHIMS] trial and the trial of estrogen treatment for Alzheimer's disease), which show that hormone replacement therapy (HRT) showed no benefit and even a potential deleterious effect? Which set of data is correct? The proposition put forth in this review is that both sets of data are correct and that two major factors determine the efficacy of estrogen or HRT. First is the time at which estrogen therapy is initiated. The data indicate that initiation of therapy early in menopause and when neurons are in a healthy state, reduces the risk of Alzheimer's disease; whereas, estrogen therapy initiated after the disease has developed or decades following menopause is without benefit. Second, estrogen therapy is not the same as HRT and the type of progestogen used determines the outcome of the therapeutic intervention. Insights into the mechanisms of action of estrogen and progestogen in the brain provide a framework for understanding the paradox of the benefit of estrogen in the prevention of Alzheimer's disease versus the lack of benefit in treatment trials and in trials when HRT is instituted many years after menopause. Based on estrogen-inducible mechanisms, which have been elucidated in healthy neuron model systems, it would be predicted that estrogen therapy could be highly effective in preventing neurodegenerative disease by promoting neuronal defence and memory mechanisms. The mechanisms of action of estrogen also predict that estrogen therapy would be an ineffective strategy for reversing the pathology of Alzheimer's disease. In summary, the time at which estrogen therapy is initiated, the neurological status of the brain at the time of estrogen therapy initiation and the type of progestogen used all contribute to the efficacy of estrogen in preventing neurodegenerative disease and to sustaining neurological health and function. An estrogen advantage hypothesis is put forth that provides a unifying mechanism of estrogen action with implications for both the benefits and risks of estrogen therapy.
Depersonalisation disorder is characterised by prominent depersonalisation and often derealisation, without clinically notable memory or identity disturbances. The disorder has an approximately 1 : 1 gender ratio with onset at around 16 years of age. The course of the disorder is typically long term and often continuous. Mood, anxiety and personality disorders are often comorbid with depersonalisation disorder but none predict symptom severity. The most common immediate precipitants of the disorder are severe stress, depression and panic, and marijuana and hallucinogen ingestion. Depersonalisation disorder has also been associated with childhood interpersonal trauma, in particular emotional maltreatment. Neurochemical findings have suggested possible involvement of serotonergic, endogenous opioid and glutamatergic NMDA pathways. Brain imaging studies in depersonalisation disorder have revealed widespread alterations in metabolic activity in the sensory association cortex, as well as prefrontal hyperactivation and limbic inhibition in response to aversive stimuli. Depersonalisation disorder has also been associated with autonomic blunting and hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis dysregulation. To date, treatment recommendations and guidelines for depersonalisation disorder have not been established. There are few studies assessing the use of pharmacotherapy in this disorder. Medication options that have been reported include clomipramine, fluoxetine, lamotrigine and opioid antagonists. However, it does not appear that any of these agents have a potent anti-dissociative effect. A variety of psychotherapeutic techniques has been used to treat depersonalisation disorder (including trauma-focused therapy and cognitive-behavioural techniques), although again none of these have established efficacy to date. Overall, novel therapeutic approaches are clearly needed to help individuals experiencing this refractory disorder.






Seasonal changes in mood and behavior (seasonality) may be closely related to alcoholism. Some patients with alcoholism have a seasonal pattern to their alcohol misuse. They may be self-medicating an underlying seasonal affective disorder (SAD) with alcohol or manifesting a seasonal pattern to alcohol-induced depression. Both genetic and environmental factors play a role in the etiology and pathogenesis of alcoholism and SAD, operating, at least in part, through the brain serotonergic system. Family and molecular genetic studies suggest that there may be a genetic link between seasonality and alcoholism. Certain environmental and social factors may contribute to the development of seasonality in patients with alcoholism. The fact that SAD and alcoholism may be comorbid shows the importance of a thorough diagnostic interview. Both mental health and drug and alcohol professionals should be provided with education to assist with appropriate identification, management, and referral of patients presenting with comorbid alcoholism and SAD.

The thermal performances of an MW oncological hyperthermic (OH) system have been assessed with a PC-aided procedure. Measurements were performed on a muscle-equivalent phantom. Between the applicator and the phantom a water bolus was interposed which, to simulate real OH treatments, could be connected to a forced cooling water circulation system. Direct thermal measurements of temperatures and SAR (using the 'short pulse technique') and simulation by numerical modelling were performed, both aiming at describing the 3-D thermal field inside the phantom. Accuracy and manageability of the automated procedure proved suitable for characterization and quality assurance of MW applicators in clinical hyperthermia and encourage further efforts towards the development of computerized treatment simulations in OH.
A procedure to characterize firing patterns of neuron spikes from the human brain, in both temporal domain and the frequency domain, is presented. The combination of multitaper spectral estimation and the polynomial curve-fitting method is employed to transform the firing patterns to the frequency domain. To generate temporal shapes, eight local maxima are smoothly connected by cubic spline interpolation. We then used a rotated principal component analysis, which removes the orthogonality constraints of traditional PCA, to extract common firing patterns as templates from around 4100 neuron spike signals. Dynamic time warping was used to assign each neuron firings into the closest template without shift error. This technique can be utilized for finding firing similarities in neuroscience applications and in development of a query system.
Developing optimal strategies for constructing and testing decoding algorithms is an important question in computational neuroscience, In this field, decoding algorithms are mathematical methods that model ensemble neural spiking activity as they dynamically represent a biological signal. We present a recursive decoding algorithm based on a Bayesian point process model of individual neuron spiking activity and a linear stochastic state-space model of the biological signal. We assess the accuracy of the algorithm by computing, along with the decoding error, the true coverage probability of the approximate 0.95 confidence regions for the individual signal estimates. We illustrate the new algorithm by analyzing the position and ensemble neural spiking activity of CA1 hippocampal neurons from a rat foraging in an open circular environment The median decoding error during 10 minutes of open foraging was 5.5 cm, and the true coverage probability for 0.95 confidence regions was 0.75 using 32 neurons. These findings improve significantly on our previous results and suggest an approach to reading dynamically information represented in ensemble neural spiking activity.
The problem of the definition and evaluation of brain connectivity has become a central one in neuroscience during the latest years, as a way to understand the organization and interaction of cortical areas during the execution of cognitive or motor tasks. The method of the directed transfer function (DTF) is a frequency-domain approach to this problem, based on a multivariate autoregressive modeling of time series and on the concept of Granger causality. So far, all the connectivity estimations performed on cerebral electromagnetic signals were computed between signals gathered from the electric or magnetic sensors. However, the spreading of the potential from the cortex to the sensors makes it difficult to infer the relation between the spatial patterns on the sensor space and those on the cortical sites. In this paper we propose the use of the DTF method on cortical signals estimated from high resolution EEG recordings, which exhibit a higher spatial resolution than conventional cerebral electromagnetic measures. As main contributions of this work, we present the results of a wide simulation study, aiming to evaluate performances of DTF application on this kind of data, and a statistical analysis (via the ANOVA, analysis of variance) of the results obtained for different levels of signal to noise ratio and temporal length, as they have been systematically imposed on simulated signals. Finally, we provide an application to the estimation of cortical connectivity from high resolution EEG recordings related to finger tapping movements.
A unique structure for chronically implantable cortical electrodes based on benzocyclobutene (BCB) biopolymer was designed to perform intracortical and extracortical neural recording simultaneously in basic neuroscience research using animal models. It was fabricated on silicon wafer using standard planar CMOS surface microfabrication technique. Dry-etchable BCB was used to insulate the electrode and provide flexibility for micro-motion compliance between brain tissue and skull. This electrode is also designed to ease the handling and implantation during the surgery and to integrate buffer circuits to improve the signal-to-noise ratio. The reliable fabrication process was developed to improve the electrode yield and performance. A 15 microm thick tungsten layer was sandwiched in the electrode tip to improve the stiffness for easy insertion during the surgery. The fabricated electrodes have two intra-cortical recording sites (20 x 20 microm) in the tip penetrating into the cortex and two epidural recording sites (80 x 80 microm) on each side wing, providing a 6 channel system. One via (40 x 40 microm) was also incorporated in the tip to balance the tip and provide the bio-seeding to improve the implants and neural tissue interaction. The acute surgical testing suggests that this electrode structure can penetrate the pia into the cortical tissue without damaging the electrode.
Benzocyclobutene (BCB) based intracortical neural implants for basic neuroscience research in animal models was fabricated, in which microfluidic channel was embedded to deliver chemical reagents. BCB presents several attractive features for chronic applications: flexibility, biocompatibility, desirable chemical and electrical properties, and can be easily manufactured using existing batch microfabrication technology; The fabricated implants have single shank with three recording sites (20 x 20 microm) and two reservoirs (inlet and outlet). The channel had large volume (40 microm width and 10 microm height), and hydrophobic surface to provide a high degree of chemical inertness. All the recording sites were positioned near the end of the shank in order to increase the probability of recording neural signals from a target volume of tissue. In vitro biocompatibility tests of fabricated implants revealed no adverse toxic effects on cultured cells. The implant with a 5 microm silicon backbone layer penetrated rat's pia without buckling, a major drawback of polymer alone. The averaged impedance value at 1 kHz was approximately 1.2 MOmega. Water flowing through the channel was observed. Depending on the amount of the driving pressure from the syringes, the delivery speed of the water was totally controlled.
Biofuel cells were designed to investigate electricity production from Escherichia coli and human white blood cells as a preliminary investigation into the possible future use of such fuel cells as power sources for implantable electronic devices. The biofuel cell's function is based on the coupling of glucose oxidation to the reduction of oxygen to water. It might, therefore, be possible to utilize the cellular processes involved in oxidative metabolism to generate electrical energy for numerous medical applications. In the bacteria experiment, we were able to generate small electrical currents, which gradually decreased over a (2) hour measurement period. In the human white blood cell experiment, our biofuel cell attained current outputs, which were smaller in magnitude than values recorded from the microbial biofuel cell.
A technique is presented for rapid fabrication of microfluidic channels on top of multichannel in vitro neural recording electrode arrays. The channels allow dynamic control of transient flow over localized areas of the array. Dorsal root ganglion neurons were integrated into the system. The device was used to demonstrate precise control of the extracellular microenvironment of individual cells on the array. Because the methods presented here are not specific to a particular cell type or neural recording system, the technique is amenable to a wide range of applications within the neuroscience field.
Visual stimuli evoke waves of electrical activity that propagate across the visual cortex of freshwater turtles. The experimental methods used to demonstrate these waves measure the activity of populations of pyramidal cells. However, turtle visual cortex contains pyramidal cells and at least three populations of inhibitory interneurons. This study uses a large-scale model to characterize the time course of activity of each of the major populations of neurons in turtle visual cortex.
Gene therapy vehicles must be engineered to overcome numerous barriers that limit delivery efficiency. These barriers arise at every step of the delivery process, including the transit of the vector from injection to a cell surface, receptor binding and uptake, intracellular trafficking, and nuclear entry. The gene transfer properties of the highly promising adeno-associated viral (AAV) vector at each step are determined by its capsid structure. Previous capsid modifications that alter AAV tropism, as well as the existence of multiple AAV serotypes, suggest that the AAV capsid is reasonably plastic. We have taken advantage of this remarkable capsid plasticity to generate a large mutant AAV library (1e6) and select for mutant AAV virons that can overcome several barriers to infection. Specifically, we have selected AAV2 library for infectious particles with altered heparan sulfate (HS) affinity and for the ability to evade an AAV2 immune response. We have generated mutants with lower and higher affinity to heparin, which could prove valuable in controlling the therapeutic zone of an AAV vector in tissues where ECM HS hinders AAV2 diffusion. Furthermore, we have generated vector variants that have resistance to human serum that neutralizes wild type AAV2, yet retain AAV2 gene delivery efficiency. These vectors may enable high gene delivery efficiency even in patients with preexisting immunity, and the locations of point mutations on the capsid surface suggest new regions of functional importance to the virus. These AAV libraries therefore both provide useful variants for gene therapy application and offer a means to dissect AAV biology.
Transmitting high-quality neurophysiology video via the Internet is a challenging problem in telemedicine. We propose a novel content-selective video data processing and compression method based on the Discrete Wavelet Transform (DWT). Our algorithm is adaptive to intraoperative monitoring video data and has a great scalability on real-time network bandwidth allocation. When compared with the general-purpose video compression methods, our method offers higher quality within the critical field of neurosurgery.

Fractional calculus (integral and differential operations of noninteger order) is not often used to model biological systems. Although the basic mathematical ideas were developed long ago by the mathematicians Leibniz (1695), Liouville (1834), Riemann (1892), and others and brought to the attention of the engineering world by Oliver Heaviside in the 1890s, it was not until 1974 that the first book on the topic was published by Oldham and Spanier. Recent monographs and symposia proceedings have highlighted the application of fractional calculus in physics, continuum mechanics, signal processing, and electromagnetics, but with few examples of applications in bioengineering. This is surprising because the methods of fractional calculus, when defined as a Laplace or Fourier convolution product, are suitable for solving many problems in biomedical research. For example, early studies by Cole (1933) and Hodgkin (1946) of the electrical properties of nerve cell membranes and the propagation of electrical signals are well characterized by differential equations of fractional order. The solution involves a generalization of the exponential function to the Mittag-Leffler function, which provides a better fit to the observed cell membrane data. A parallel application of fractional derivatives to viscoelastic materials establishes, in a natural way, hereditary integrals and the power law (Nutting/Scott Blair) stress-strain relationship for modeling biomaterials. In this review, I will introduce the idea of fractional operations by following the original approach of Heaviside, demonstrate the basic operations of fractional calculus on well-behaved functions (step, ramp, pulse, sinusoid) of engineering interest, and give specific examples from electrochemistry, physics, bioengineering, and biophysics. The fractional derivative accurately describes natural phenomena that occur in such common engineering problems as heat transfer, electrode/electrolyte behavior, and sub-threshold nerve propagation. By expanding the range of mathematical operations to include fractional calculus, we can develop new and potentially useful functional relationships for modeling complex biological systems in a direct and rigorous manner. In Part 2 of this review (Crit Rev Biomed Eng 2004; 32(1):105-193), fractional calculus was applied to problems in nerve stimulation, dielectric relaxation, and viscoelastic materials by extending the governing differential equations to include fractional order terms. In this third and final installment, we consider distributed systems that represent shear stress in fluids, heat transfer in uniform one-dimensional media, and subthreshold nerve depolarization. Classic electrochemical analysis and impedance spectroscopy are also reviewed from the perspective of fractional calculus, and selected examples from recent studies in neuroscience, bioelectricity, and tissue biomechanics are analyzed to illustrate the vitality of the field.
Interleukin-12 (IL-12) has long been considered essential in T-cell-mediated autoimmune diseases, including multiple sclerosis (MS) and its animal model, experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE). This is based on the strong capacity of IL-12 to induce T-cell activation and Th1 differentiation. However, recent data have shown that the perceived central role of IL-12 in CNS inflammatory demyelination is actually due to IL-23, a closely related cytokine sharing the p40 subunit and the beta1 receptor chain with IL-12. There appear to be three different aspects of IL-12 involvement in EAE: (1) disease-promoting effects of exogenous IL-12, particularly in relapsing-remitting EAE and adoptive transfer EAE; (2) lack of IL-12 requirement in EAE pathogenesis, as indicated by studies in knockout mice; and (3) immunoregulatory effects of IL-12. Together, these observations make IL-12 a less attractive target for therapeutic intervention in MS. IL-23 neutralization may be a better candidate for therapeutic intervention, and it remains to be established whether blocking IL-23 with antibodies in adult mice will have the same effects as knocking out the IL-23p19 gene. Current clinical trials of neutralizing anti-IL-12 antibodies in other immune-mediated diseases target the p40 subunit, thereby neutralizing both IL-12 and IL-23. Thus, new experimental data are expected to have important implications for therapy of human diseases.
There is currently substantial evidence that Cannabis sativa derivates act on brain reward in a way very similar to other drugs of abuse and exert numerous pharmacological effects through their interaction with various neurotransmitters and neuromodulators. Among them, the endogenous opioids seem to play an important role in modulating the addictive properties of cannabinoids. Given the plethora of research activity on such a topic, this brief review is necessarily focused on cannabinoid/opioid interaction in reward-related events and restricted to the recent literature. Recent findings from our and other laboratories concerning cannabinoid reinforcing effects as revealed by behavioral animal models of addiction are here summarized. Evidence is then provided demonstrating a functional cross-talk between the cannabinoid and opioid systems in the mutual modulation of the addictive behavior; accordingly, very recent data from transgenic mice lacking either the cannabinoid CB1 or opioid receptors are also presented. Finally, the role of the endogenous cannabinoid system in relapse to opioids is investigated by means of extinction/reinstatement animal models following a period, even prolonged, of drug abstinence. Altogether, the reviewed studies provided a better understanding of the neurobiological mechanisms involved in cannabinoid actions and revealed a bidirectional interaction between the endogenous cannabinoid and opioid systems in reward that extends to central mechanisms underlying relapsing phenomena. Challenges for the future involve elucidation of the neuroanatomical substrates of cannabinoids action, even in light of the therapeutic potential of these compounds.
Neurosteroids--i.e., steroid produced in brain ex novo or through metabolism of precursors--affect neuronal and brain functions through genomic and nongenomic mechanisms, depending on their molecular structure. Among neurosteroids, 3alpha-hydroxylated, 5alpha-reduced metabolites of progesterone (3alpha-hydroxy,5alpha-pregnan-20one/3alpha,5alpha-THP) and deoxycorticosterone (3alpha,21-dihydroxy,5alpha-pregnan-20one/3alpha,5alpha-THDOC) are positive allosteric modulators of gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) action at GABAA receptors. In rodents, a reduction of their endogenous brain concentrations rapidly lowers the potency of GABA in eliciting GABAA receptor-mediated inhibitory postsynaptic currents. This effect is related to anxiety-like behavior, increased aggression, and a reduced sensitivity to the loss of righting reflex induced by GABAA receptor agonist or positive modulators. Conversely, enhancement of 3alpha,5alpha-THP or 3alpha,5alpha-THDOC brain content results in anxiolysis, sedation/hypnosis, anticonvulsant, and anesthetic action. Different classes of psychotropic drugs--i.e., antidepressants, selected atypical antipsychotics, ethanol, gamma-hydroxybutyric acid--increase neurosteroid concentrations in brain, and these increases may be relevant to their pharmacological actions. Drug-induced increases of neurosteroids in rodent brain are often associated with elevation of their plasma content, such that alterations of plasma steroid concentrations are assumed to reflect parallel changes in brain. Nevertheless, brain neurosteroid concentrations are uneven across various regions, and the dose-dependence of their response to a pharmacological challenge shows brain-regional differences as well. These observations are consistent with the present knowledge on the distribution of steroidogenic enzymes in brain--they show not only a brain region, but also a cell-specific expression that may spatially and temporally determine the local concentrations of specific neurosteroids, either produced ex novo or through metabolism of steroid precursors that reach the brain through blood.
Patients with the human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1) develop in the late phase of infection a complex of neurological signs termed Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome-Related Dementia (ADC). These patients exhibit cortical and subcortical atrophy. Considerable experimental data indicate that the HIV-1 envelope glycoprotein gp120 may be one of the agents causing neuronal cell death. Gp120 causes neuronal cell death both in vitro and in vivo by activating a caspase-dependent apoptotic pathway, and in particular caspase-3. The neurotrophin brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) has been shown to prevent gp120-mediated apoptosis of cerebellar granule cells by inhibiting caspase-3 activation. However, the signal transduction pathway that contributes to the neuroprotective effects of BDNF has not been determined. BDNF binds with high affinity to the tyrosine kinase receptor TrkB and activates different intracellular signaling cascade including the extracellular signal-related kinases (ERK) and the phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (PI3-K). Pharmacological inhibition of TrkB or ERK1/2, but not PI3-K, greatly reduced the ability of BDNF to block gp120-mediated apoptosis of cerebellar granule cells. These findings suggest that TrkB-mediated activation of ERK1/2 is the main signaling pathway that contributes to neuroprotection against gp120.
The central nervous system (CNS) has long been described as an immunologically privileged organ. However, evidence is accumulating that the CNS is more adequately described as immune competent, albeit atypical. Leukocyte trafficking into the CNS in response to inflammation, as in peripheral organs, occurs in several distinct steps. As with all leukocyte trafficking, the overall process is governed in part by chemokines. The CNS has unique anatomic and physiologic attributes, including the blood-brain barrier. These characteristic features of the CNS interact with a distinct array of chemokines, expressed both constitutively and in response to inflammation. In this review, we consider the potential sites of chemokine action in guiding leukocyte migration. The process of extravasation can usefully be regarded as comprising individual steps. This review is focused on the need to consider these stages separately, and the elucidation of mechanisms at each stage is outlined.
Both neurologic and medical complications influence outcome after stroke. Space-occupying supratentorial infarcts can cause transtentorial or uncal herniation, which leads to death. Treatments aimed at reducing intracranial pressure in patients with such infarcts are of unproven value. Mass-producing cerebellar infarction may lead to brainstem compression and obstructive hydrocephalus. These lesions often are treated surgically. Although anticonvulsants are not indicated for prophylaxis, the occurrence of epileptic seizures mandates treatment to prevent recurrences. Depression is common in the acute stage of stroke, but is probably not more prevalent after stroke than after myocardial infarction. Although dysphagia is common, it usually is a transient problem. Patients with a decrease of consciousness or brainstem dysfunction usually need tube feeding for a certain period of time. Medical complications, such as fever, infections, hyperglycemia, cardiac disorders, pressure sores, and deep venous thrombosis, are associated with a poor prognosis and should be treated as early as possible. Measures to prevent these complications are part of general care. Hypertension is very common during the week after stroke and should be treated only in case of extremely high values or malignant hypertension. A multidisciplinary approach in the stroke unit is necessary to prevent and manage complications in the acute phase of stroke.
Proving the efficacy of thrombolysis in improving outcome from stroke has put time to assessment of patients at the forefront for healthcare providers when organizing stroke care. The chain of recovery begins with the patient. Efforts are being made to improve the general public's understanding of stroke. However, it appears at the moment that a greater effect in reducing the delay to initial medical assessment and treatment decision is to be gained through streamlining care as soon as 911 has been called. Emergency medical services dispatchers and technicians play a key role in recognizing that a patient is having a stroke and prioritizing the transport of the patient to an appropriate facility. Emergency departments need to have clear protocols in place to ensure that physicians can make prompt treatment decisions after having fully assessed and investigated the patient. Only with all these pieces in place is the initial phase of the chain of recovery complete, with the end result that more patients have the chance to have an improved outcome from stroke.
Although brain metabolism consumes high amounts of energy and is accompanied by intense heat production, brain temperature is usually considered a stable, tightly regulated homeostatic parameter. Current animal research, however, has shown that different forms of functional neural activation are accompanied by relatively large brain hyperthermia (2-3 degrees C), which has an intra-brain origin; cerebral circulation plays a crucial role in dissipating this potentially dangerous metabolic heat from brain tissue. Brain hyperthermia, therefore, reflects enhanced brain metabolism and is a normal physiological phenomenon that can be enhanced by interaction with common elements of an organism's environment. There are, however, instances when brain hyperthermia becomes pathological. Both exposure to extreme environmental heat and intense physical activity in a hot, humid environment restrict heat dissipation from the brain and may push brain temperatures to the limits of physiological functions, resulting in acute life-threatening complications and destructive effects on neural cells and functions of the brain as a whole. Brain hyperthermia may also result from metabolic activation induced by various addictive drugs, such as heroin, cocaine, and meth-amphetamine (METH). In contrast to heroin and cocaine, whose stimulatory effects on brain metabolism invert with increases in dose, METH increases brain metabolism dose-dependently and diminishes heat dissipation because of peripheral vasoconstriction. The thermogenic effects of this drug, moreover, are enhanced during physiological activation, resulting in pathological brain hyperthermia. Since brain hyperthermia exacerbates drug-induced toxicity and is destructive to neural cells, uncontrollable use of amphetamine-like drugs under conditions restricting heat dissipation from the brain may result both in acute life-threatening complications and clinically latent but dangerous morphological and functional brain destruction.
In this review, we compare the sequence and structural relationships of two epidermal growth factor (EGF) family related proteins that have recently been discovered in invertebrate species. The first is L-EGF, a secreted growth factor from the gastropod mollusk Lymnaea stagnalis. The second is a peptide toxin (Gigantoxin I), isolated from the sea anenome Stichodactyla giganteus, which can paralyze crabs. L-EGF and Gigantoxin I share striking sequence similarity with mammalian erbB1 receptor ligands, including most of the essential receptor binding sites. Intriguingly, L-EGF's tertiary structure resembles more the structure of the EGF-like domain of coagulation factors. That is, the secondary and tertiary structure of L-EGF indicates the presence of a double-stranded beta-sheet but also suggests that this protein, in contrast to all other erbB1 ligands, contains a calcium-binding domain. One of the most remarkable features of L-EGF and Gigantoxin I however, is the indication that these protein are synthesized as non-membrane bound secreted peptides. This feature sets L-EGF and Gigantoxin I apart from all other members of the EGF family or EGF-like proteins identified thus far. We discuss sequence similarities and dissimilarities in the light of indications that, despite the more than 600 million years of phylogenetic distance separating both these invertebrates from mammals, Gigantoxin I and L-EGF retain some affinity for the mammalian erbB-family of receptors. Considering that mammalian EGF and its family members are frequently implicated in neoplastic diseases, the increasing number of identified and characterized invertebrate EGF family members may provide valuable leads in the design of erbB receptor antagonists.
Accumulating evidence in literature suggests that amidated and non-amidated gastrins (gastrin precursors) may play an important role in the proliferation and carcinogenesis of gastrointestinal and pancreatic cancers, especially in the presence of DNA damaging agents and/or infectious agents. Amidated gastrins appear to have a protective role, while progastrins exert growth promoting effects in cancers. Several receptor subtypes and signal transduction pathways mediate the biological effects of the gastrin peptides. Progastrin and gastrins also exert anti-apoptotic effects, which may additionally contribute to the growth and co-carcinogenic effects of these peptides on GI mucosal cells in vivo. Amidated gastrins additionally play an important role in the migration of GI epithelial cells, and in glandular morphogenesis, while progastrins may play an important role in invasion and metastasis. Therefore, targeting progastrins, gastrins, and their cognate receptors may provide a therapeutic tool for treating GI and pancreatic cancers. Targeting CCK2-receptors has, so far, not provided optimal beneficial effects. However, targeting gastrins via a vaccine approach has provided some encouraging results for treating GI and pancreatic cancers. It is expected that targeting precursor gastrins (progastrins and gly-gastrins), exclusively rather than amidated gastrins, may be more effective for treating GI cancers. Since GI cancers at advanced stages are largely responsive to autocrine and intracrine progastrins, down-regulation of intracellular progastrins will likely be more effective at this stage.
Nitric oxide (NO), a free radical molecule, produced by NO synthase (NOS) in the body exerts a number of pathophysiological actions due to its chemical reactivity. Low amounts of NO (nM) normally produced by constitutive NOS play a critical role in different physiological events such as vasodilation and neurotransmission. Higher amounts of NO ( micro M) locally and spatially produced by inducible NOS during inflammation act as double-edged sword exerting either beneficial or detrimental effects. Recently, new vision on the biological role of NO has been proposed based on the possible cross-talk between constitutive and inducible NOS. Accordingly, normally produced low amounts of NO may be involved in the regulation of NF-kappaB activation and successively the expression of inducible NOS. Under normal conditions NF-kappaB activation is suppressed by low amounts of NO. Under conditions in which massive amounts of NO produced by inducible NOS act detrimentally, NO-elicited down-regulation of NF-kappaB activation is compromised due to the drop in NO at the early phase of inflammation caused by inactivation of constitutive NOS. Any treatment which counterparts the drop in NO, therefore, may present a new approach either in preventing or in treating inflammatory diseases.
The introduction, in 1995, of highly active antiretroviral therapy (HAART) dramatically reduced the morbidity and mortality of HIV-infected patients. However, the brain remains a site of viral replication for HIV and thus is still an important target for antiretroviral agents. Consequently, a clear understanding of how the current anti-HIV drugs reach the CNS, and interact at the level of the blood-brain barrier and blood-CSF barrier, is important if we are to maximise viral suppression and improve clinical outcome. It would also contribute to the development of new anti-HIV drugs and the identification of transport inhibitors that could be used as adjuvant therapies. In this review we focus on the role of the blood-brain and blood-CSF barriers in the delivery of the main classes of approved anti-HIV drugs. Among these groups, the CNS distribution of the nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors is the best characterised. It involves probenecid efflux transport mechanisms, which limit their brain delivery and probably their, neurological efficacy. Nevirapine and efavirenz, the commonly prescribed non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors, can readily enter the CSF, however, it remains to be seen if a transport system is involved in their distribution. The protease inhibitors have only a limited ability to reach the CNS, with the majority of this class of drugs not even being detected in human CSF after administration. This is partly the result of their removal from the CNS by the efflux transporters; P-glycoprotein, and possibly multi-drug resistance associated protein (MRP).
The blood-brain barrier (BBB) and the blood-cerebrospinal fluid barrier (BCSFB) form a very effective barrier to the free diffusion of many polar solutes into the brain. Many metabolites that are polar have their brain entry facilitated by specific inwardly-directed transport mechanisms. In general the more lipid soluble a molecule or drug is, the more readily it will tend to partition into brain tissue. However, a very significant number of lipid soluble molecules, among them many useful therapeutic drugs have lower brain permeability than would be predicted from a determination of their lipid solubility. These molecules are substrates for the ABC efflux transporters which are present in the BBB and BCSB and the activity of these transporters very efficiently removes the drug from the CNS, thus limiting brain uptake. P-glycoprotein (Pgp) was the first of these ABC transporters to be described, followed by the multidrug resistance-associated proteins (MRP) and more recently breast cancer resistance protein (BCRP). All are expressed in the BBB and BCSFB and combine to reduce the brain penetration of many drugs. This phenomenon of &quot;multidrug resistance&quot; is a major hurdle when it comes to the delivery of therapeutics to the brain, not to mention the problem of cancer chemotherapy in general. Therefore, the development of strategies for bypassing the influence of these ABC transporters and for the design of effective drugs that are not substrates and the development of inhibitors for the ABC transporters becomes a high imperative for the pharmaceutical industry.
Adenosine (ADO) is an endogenous inhibitory neuromodulator that increases nociceptive thresholds in response to tissue trauma and inflammation. Adenosine kinase (AK) is a key intracellular enzyme regulating intra- and extracellular concentrations of ADO. AK inhibition selectively amplifies extracellular ADO levels at cell and tissue sites where accelerated release of ADO occurs. AK inhibitors have been shown to provide effective antinociceptive, antiinflammatory and anticonvulsant activity in animal models, thus suggesting their potential therapeutic utility for pain, inflammation, epilepsy and possibly other central and peripheral nervous system diseases associated with cellular trauma and inflammation. This beneficial outcome may potentially lack nonspecific effects associated with the systemic administration of ADO receptor agonists. Until recently all of the reported AK inhibitors contained adenosine-like structural motif. The present review will discuss design, synthesis and analgesic and antiinflammatory properties of the novel nonnucleoside AK inhibitors that do not have close structural resemblance with the natural substrate ADO. Two classes of the nonnucleoside AK inhibitors are built on pyridopyrimidine and alkynylpyrimidine cores.
The current status of ligand gated ion channel P2X and G protein-coupled P2Y receptor subtypes is described. This is followed by a summary of what is known of the distribution and roles of these receptor subtypes. Potential therapeutic targets of purinoceptors are considered, including those involved in cardiovascular, nervous, respiratory, urinogenital, gastrointestinal, musculo-skeletal and special sensory diseases, as well as inflammation, cancer and diabetes. Lastly, there are some speculations about future developments in the purinergic signalling field.
Although T cells were previously believed to recognize only peptide antigen associated with the major histocompatibility complex (MHC), recent studies have shown that there are unique T cells specialized for recognition of lipid or glycolipid antigens bound to the MHC class I-like CD1 molecules (CD1a, b, c or d). Among these lipid-specific T cells, CD1d-restricted T cells, also referred to as natural killer (NK) T cells, are of special interest as a target of drug development, since their role in immunoregulation has been indicated in various physiological or disease conditions including autoimmunity. They are unique in their homogeneous ligand specificity for alpha-glycosylated sphingolipid and secrete large amounts of regulatory cytokines shortly after T cell receptor (TCR) engagement. The first glycolipid identified as an NKT cell ligand was alpha-galactosylceramide (alpha-GalCer) derived from marine sponges. alpha-GalCer exhibits significant immunomodulatory effects by stimulating NKT cells. However, we found that an altered analogue of alpha-GalCer with a shorter sphingosine chain (OCH), is more useful than alpha-GalCer for treatment of autoimmune disease models, because of its ability to selectively induce IL-4, a key cytokine for control of autoimmunity. As such, altered glycolipid ligands (AGL) of alpha-GalCer appear to be promising reagents for treatment of human autoimmune diseases.
The atomic determination of the acetylcholine binding protein (AChBP), a molluscan cholinergic protein, homologous to the amino-terminal extracellular domain of nicotinic receptors (nAChRs), offers opportunities for the modeling of the acetylcholine binding site and its ligands. Recently, we constructed three-dimensional models of the N-terminal part of nAChR and docked in the putative ligand-binding pocket, different agonists (acetylcholine, nicotine and epibatidine) and antagonist (snake alpha-bungarotoxin). These hypothetical docking models offer a structural basis for rational design of drugs differentially binding to resting and active (or desensitized) conformations of the receptor site. These models thus pave the way to investigate, at the molecular level, the exciting challenge of the fast ion channel gating mechanisms by nicotinic agonists.
Current analgesics, such as opioids and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), are largely refinements of approaches available for more than 100 years and have critical liabilities and limitations. A number of new molecular targets for analgesia have been proposed in recent years, including the neuronal nicotinic acetylcholine receptor (nAChR). Agonists at neuronal nAChRs have antinociceptive effects in a variety of preclinical pain models. Moreover, nicotine can decrease experimentally-induced pain in humans without disrupting normal tactile sensation. These data from both experimental animals and humans suggest that compounds targeting neuronal nAChRs may represent a new class of analgesic agents. In this paper, we provide brief overviews of the physiology of pain, the animal models used to assess potential analgesics preclinically, and the biology of nAChRs. We then provide a review of preclinical data on the antinociceptive effects of a variety of neuronal nAChR agonists and a discussion of potential mechanisms, including evidence that antinociception is mediated by activation of brainstem nuclei with descending inhibitory inputs to the spinal cord. An evaluation of the clinical potential of this approach must also consider potential side effects. Undesirable side effects of nicotine are well known, but as we will discuss in detail, these effects are not produced by all neuronal nAChR agonists and the existence of neuronal nAChR subtypes may provide a basis for separating therapeutic effects from toxicities.
Advances in the understanding of the neurobiology of the nicotinic receptor have started to be matched by an appreciation of the potential role of these receptors in a variety of neuropsychiatric disorders. While alterations in nicotinic receptor number and/or function have been associated with such conditions as Alzheimer's disease for several years, there is increasing evidence that nicotinic receptor function may play a significant role in other disorders as well including schizophrenia, Parkinson's disease, anxiety disorders, and attention deficit-hyperactivity disorder (ADHD). Research in our laboratory and those of other investigators have utilized sophisticated psychopharmacological, cognitive, electrophysiological, neuroimaging and other techniques to assess the impact of nicotinic receptor modulation on the clinical expression of these disorders. This manuscript reviews data, both experimental and clinical, relating to the role of nicotine and/or nicotinic receptor function in a variety of neuropsychiatric disorders with the perspective of developing appropriate targets for therapeutic drug development.
Single photon emission computer tomography (SPECT) applied early in the course of Alzheimer's disease (AD) may identify regions with impaired brain function. Moreover, it may be relevant to characterize SPECT perfusion patterns in patients with mild cognitive impairment (MCI), in particular the subgroup of MCI patients with isolated amnesia, as these patients have been demonstrated to convert to AD in more than half of the cases within 3 years. The primary aim of the present study was to characterize the regional cerebral blood flow (CBF) in patients with neuropsychologically verified isolated amnesia. We examined 32 patients (11 men/21 women) with isolated amnesia according to strict neuropsychological criteria and 15 healthy volunteers (11 men/4 women). All subjects had an SPECT-99mTc-d,l-HMPAO perfusion study and neuropsychological assessments. Cranial MRI or CT was performed in all subjects. Semiquantitative (cerebellar relative) flow values were calculated and statistically compared. Patients with isolated amnesia had significant hypoperfusion in several cortical regions of interest compared to control subjects, most prominently in the left temporal cortex. Additionally, there was a trend towards globally reduced CBF in the patients, although this was not significant. These findings may indicate the presence of a progressive degenerative illness affecting multiple brain regions at its early or preclinical stage.

In this study we investigated impaired awareness of cognitive deficits in patients with mild cognitive impairment (MCI) and Alzheimer's disease (AD). Very few studies have addressed this topic, and methodological inconsistencies make the comparison of previous studies difficult. From a prospective research program 36 consecutive patients with mild AD (MMSE above 19), 30 with amnesic MCI and 33 matched controls were examined. Using three methods for awareness assessment we found no significant differences in the level of awareness between MCI and AD. Both groups had impaired awareness and significant heterogeneity in the clinical presentation of awareness. The results demonstrate that subjective memory problems should not be a mandatory prerequisite in suspected dementia or MCI, which makes reports from informants together with thorough clinical interview and observation central when assessing suspected dementia disorders.
In epidemiological, cross-sectional studies, treatment with 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl coenzyme A reductase inhibitors (statins) prevented to a large extent the development of Alzheimer's disease (AD), but the results of randomized, placebo-controlled studies, focused on statin therapy in patients with ischemic heart disease (IHD), are at variance. Nonetheless, data from epidemiological, longitudinal studies in humans as well as studies on transgenic mouse models and cultured neuronal cell lines indicate that cholesterol may contribute to the pathogenesis of AD. Statins have proven therapeutic and preventive effects in IHD and other vascular diseases in man. They generally are well tolerated, but some adverse effects, probably due to antiproliferative and proapoptotic properties of the statins, are matters of concern. AD patients may be extrasusceptible to adverse effects of statins due to preexisting aberrations in signal transduction and energy metabolism in the neurons and a perturbed cholesterol metabolism in the brain. This problem might be addressed in randomized, double-blind studies with statins in AD. The statins differ from each other in several aspects, and they are not considered to be therapeutically interchangeable. It could be fruitful to use both a placebo and two different types of statins, i.e. an essentially hydrophilic statin and a lipophilic statin, in a double-blinded fashion, and to compare the effects on the cognitive decline in AD.
A selection of articles that focus on psychosocial treatments, pharmacotherapy, and psychosurgery of anxiety disorders are reviewed. While some medications look clearly beneficial or potentially effective in the treatment of anxiety disorders, other compounds seem less promising or not effective. A combination of proven pharmacotherapies and psychotherapies may be the most clinically prudent approach to the treatment of anxiety disorders. Thermocapsulotomy may be an &quot;extreme&quot; option in selected cases of severe nonobsessive anxiety but may carry a significant risk of adverse effects indicative of frontal lobe functioning impairment. In spite of all the research and progress in studying relatively well-defined therapies, many patients suffering from anxiety and depression still use complementary and alternative therapies. The use of alternative and complementary is likely to increase as insurance coverage expands.
The striking similarity between mesodermally derived fibroblasts and ectomesenchyme cells, which are thought to be derivatives of the neural crest, has long been a source of interest and controversy. In mice, the gene encoding the alpha subunit of the platelet-derived growth factor receptor (PDGFRalpha) is expressed both by mesodermally derived mesenchymal cells and by ectomesenchyme. Whole-mount immunostaining previously revealed that PDGFRalpha is present in the cephalic neural fold epithelium of early murine embryos (Takakura et al. [1997] J Histochem Cytochem 45:883-893). We now show that, within the neural fold, a sharp boundary exists between E-cadherin-expressing non-neural epithelium and the neural epithelium of the dorsal ridge. In addition, we found that cells coexpressing E-cadherin and PDGFRalpha are present in the non-neural epithelium of the neural folds. These observations raise the possibility that at least some PDGFRalpha(+) ectomesenchyme originates from the lateral non-neural domain of neural fold epithelium. This inference is consistent with previous reports (Nichols [ 1981] J Embryol Exp Morphol 64:105-120; Nichols [ 1986] Am J Anat 176:221-231) that mesenchymal cells emerge precociously from an epithelial neural fold domain resembling the primitive streak in the early embryonic epiblast. Therefore, we propose the name &quot;metablast&quot; for this non-neural epithelial domain to indicate that it is the site of a delayed local delamination of mesenchyme similar to involution of mesoderm during gastrulation. We further propose the testable hypothesis that neural crest and ectomesenchyme are developmentally distinct progenitor populations and that at least some ectomesenchyme is metablast-derived rather than neural crest-derived tissue. Developmental Dynamics 229:118-130, 2004.
Neural crest melanoblasts display unique navigational abilities enabling them to colonize the dorsal path between ectoderm and somite. One signal shown here to elicit melanoblast migration is a chemotactic cue supplied by the emerging dermis. Until dermis emerges, melanoblasts fail to enter the dorsal path. The dermis emerges from a site that is too distant to stimulate migration by cell contact. Instead, surgeries show that dermis elicits migration from a distance. When dermis is grafted distally, neural crest cells enter the path precociously. Moreover, large grafts recruit melanoblasts from the control sides (without increasing crest cell numbers) as well as a few crest cells from ventral somite. Because other grafted tissues fail to stimulate migration, the dermis stimulus is specific. This report is the first documentation that trunk neural crest cells can be guided chemotactically. It also extends evidence that migration is exquisitely sensitive to temporal-spatial patterns of somite morphogenesis. Developmental Dynamics 229:99-108, 2004.
Rohon-Beard cells are large, mechanosensory neurons located in the dorsal spinal cord of anamniote vertebrates. In most species studied to date, these cells die during development. We followed labeled Rohon-Beard cells in living zebrafish embryos and found that they degenerate slowly, over many days. During degeneration, the soma shrinks and finally disappears, and the processes become beady in appearance and finally break apart, but they do not retract. Zebrafish Rohon-Beard cells apparently fragment their DNA, as revealed by terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase-mediated dUTP nick end-labeling (TUNEL) labeling, before undergoing degenerative morphologic changes. We also followed the development of labeled dorsal root ganglion neurons, as they are developing at the same stages that Rohon-Beard cells are degenerating. We found that, although axons of both cell types extend into similar regions, Rohon-Beard cells degenerate normally in mutants lacking dorsal root ganglia, providing evidence that interactions between the two cell types are not responsible for Rohon-Beard cell degeneration. Developmental Dynamics 229:30-41,2004.
Fluency measures are commonly used in clinical developmental neuropsychology to assess executive functions. Little is known about the effect of age on performance in these tests. This article analyzes the effect of age on measures of verbal (semantic and phonologic) and nonverbal (semantic and nonsemantic) fluency in 171 children (81 boys, 90 girls) between ages 6 and 15. Participants were selected from public and private schools in Guadalajara and Tijuana, Mexico. A significant age effect was found on all tests but no interaction between age and type of test was found. Significant correlations among the 4 fluency tasks ranged from.36 to.46. Results are consistent with the findings of normative studies carried out in other countries and support the cross-language validity of verbal fluency tests.
Posner's covert orienting of attention paradigm has been used in many studies in the cognitive neuroscience literature to study attention. We found 9 studies in which it was used to study attention deficit hyperactivity disorder, but findings were not consistent. We present a tutorial about the paradigm's methodology and then review the studies. It emerges that much of the inconsistency evident can be attributed to procedural variations. We conclude that across the 9 studies, 2 variables-overall slowing and right hemisphere dysfunction-differentiated attention-disordered persons from controls. We then offer a set of guidelines, which should help facilitate realization of the paradigm's promise in generating profiles representing different syndromes within the general classification of attention disorders.
Advances in neuroimaging technologies over the last 15 years have prompted their relatively widespread use in the study of brain mechanisms supporting language function in children and adults. We reviewed reliability and external validity studies of 3 of the most common functional imaging methods, functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI), magnetoencephalography (MEG), and positron emission tomography (PET). Although reliability and validity reports for fMRI are generally quite favorable, significant variability was found across studies with respect to methodology, preventing in some cases either the assessment of the reliability of individual datasets, or cross-study comparisons. Reliability and validity reports of MEG are strong, yet methodological questions regarding optimal modeling techniques remain. PET investigators report good concordance of language maps with data from more invasive brain mapping techniques, but its use of radioactive tracers and poorer spatial and temporal resolution make it the least optimal of the 3 methods for language mapping. Investigations of the cortical networks supporting language function during development and into adulthood should be viewed in the context of the validity and reliability of the methods used, with careful attention to details regarding the methodologies employed in the acquisition and analysis of statistical maps.
The 7 articles in this special issue address the nature of executive control in young children. Executive control is framed in a developmental context, where the unique aspects of cognition in this age range are considered. The set of articles demonstrates the multidisciplinary approaches to study cognition in young children that includes application of cognitive, neuroscience, and developmental paradigms in typically developing youngsters, as well as those affected by clinical conditions, such as traumatic brain injury, exposure to low levels of lead in the environment, and prematurity. Although much work remains to be done, these study results are illustrative of the dynamic work in this exciting developmental period.
This study explored the behavioral manifestations of sustained attention in 2-year-old children and the relation between sustained attention and its neurophysiological correlates. 51 children were administered a task of vigilance (the Early Childhood Vigilance Task; ECVT), along with behavioral measures of sustained attention that are routinely used as measures of attention in this age-group. A subset of these children, n = 14, was also evaluated in an event-related potential (ERP) paradigm to identify patterns of neurophysiological activation that might be associated with sustained attention. The results supported the conceptualization of vigilance as a component of sustained attention that is related to, but distinct from, attention toward objects or activities with which one is actively engaged. Results also provided support for a specific association between vigilance and right frontal brain activity. Whereas ECVT performance was associated with ERP activation in the right frontal area, performance on more traditional behavioral measures of sustained attention was not.
Prospective memory (PM) performance was investigated in a preliminary study of children and adolescents ages 10-19 in 3 groups: individuals with orthopedic injuries (not involving the head) requiring hospitalization (Ortho, N = 15), mild traumatic brain injury (TBI, N = 17), and severe TBI (N = 15). All participants with TBI were at least 5 years postinjury and participants in the Ortho group were at least 3 years postinjury. The PM task involved reporting words presented in blue during a category decision task in which words were presented in several different colors and participants were to determine which of two categories the word belonged. Participants were asked to make their choices as quickly as possible. After a 10- to 15-min intervening computer task in which all words were presented in black letters, a large proportion of participants with mild or severe TBI failed to indicate any blue words when they appeared. After a reminder to perform the PM task was given to all at the same point in the task, PM performance increased in the Ortho and Mild TBI groups, but remained comparably impaired in the Severe TBI group. Reaction time (RT) data indicated that mean RT was slower with increasing TBI severity. Further, there was a significant cost in RT for performing the PM task during the ongoing category decision task for all groups. The cost in terms of slowed RT increased with greater TBI severity.
The cell culture model utilized in this study represents one of the most widely used paradigms of microglia in vitro. After 14 days, microglia harvested from the neonatal rat brain are considered 'mature'. However, it is clear that this represents a somewhat arbitrary definition. In this paper, we provide a transcriptome definition of such microglial cells. More than 7,000 known genes and 1,000 expressed sequence tag clusters were analysed. 'Microglia genes' were defined as sequences consistently expressed in all microglia samples tested. Accordingly, 388 genes were identified as microglia genes. Another 1,440 sequences were detected in a subset of the cultures. Genes consistently expressed by microglia included genes known to be involved in the cellular immune response, brain tissue surveillance, microglial migration as well as proliferation. The expression profile reported here provides a baseline against which changes of microglia in vitro can be examined. Importantly, expression profiling of normal microglia will help to provide the presently purely operational definition of 'microglial activation' with a molecular biological correlate. Furthermore, the data reported here add to our understanding of microglia biology and allow projections as to what functions microglia may exert in vivo, as well as in vitro.
Prenatal hypoxic-ischemic brain injury is believed to cause permanent neurological deficits in newborns. We investigated the possibility that maternal hypoxia during pregnancy leads to offspring brain damage and its prevention by i.p. administration of MgSO4. Pregnant mice at gestation day 17 were exposed to hypoxia or air following pretreatment with saline or Mg. Newborn mice to mothers exposed to hypoxia demonstrated faster development of morphogenic parameters such as eyelid opening, hair growth and teeth eruption. In addition, hypoxia delayed the development of motor reflexes. Pretreatment with Mg compensates for hypoxia-induced impairment and in some cases accelerates the development of these functions. In conclusion, maternal hypoxia significantly modifies the developmental process of newborn mice. In our study, pretreatment with Mg showed significant prophylactic action against motor impairments.
The serious, comparative study of behavioral complexity that Greenberg et al. advocate is a progressive direction for the field, but their proposal to separate comparative psychology from its roots in evolutionary biology seems regressive. Modern evolutionary theory has been broadened within biology to include development and paleontology alongside natural selection, making closer integration with that discipline particularly timely. Such an integrated evolutionary approach in psychology would offer a useful alternative to the adaptationism popularized by evolutionary psychology. Although the differences between comparative psychologists and biologists may be blurred in the process, the behavioral sciences will be better served by a rich biological approach to evolution than by a uniquely psychological approach.
This article responds to the continuing obituaries for Comparative Psychology. We understand the field to be a general psychology, a way of understanding the origins of all behavior of all species. We outline a methodological and conceptual foundation for comparative psychology to enter the new millennium-with an anagenetic and dynamic systems perspective. We see an important role to be played by comparative psychologists in managing resources, increasing our activity in social and political issues, and transcending our traditional role as the study of animal behavior to one that makes significant contributions to psychology and humanity by studying relationships between animals and changing environments, and by providing a historical perspective on human evolution.
The directed traffic of membrane proteins to the cell surface is crucial for many developmental events. We describe the role of Sec5, a member of the exocyst complex, in directed membrane traffic in the Drosophila oocyte. During oogenesis, we find that Sec5 localization undergoes dynamic changes, correlating with the sites at which it is required for the traffic of membrane proteins. Germline clones of sec5 possess defects in membrane addition and the posterior positioning of the oocyte. Additionally, the impaired membrane trafficking of Gurken, the secreted ligand for the EGF receptor, and Yolkless, the vitellogenin receptor, results in defects in dorsal patterning and egg size. However, we find the cytoskeleton to be correctly oriented. We conclude that Sec5 is required for directed membrane traffic, and consequently for the establishment of polarity within the developing oocyte.
The sense organs of adult Drosophila, and holometabolous insects in general, derive essentially from imaginal discs and hence are adult specific. Experimental evidence presented here, however, suggests a different developmental design for the three largely gustatory sense organs located along the pharynx. In a comprehensive cellular analysis, we show that the posteriormost of the three organs derives directly from a similar larval organ and that the two other organs arise by splitting of a second larval organ. Interestingly, these two larval organs persist despite extensive reorganization of the pharynx. Thus, most of the neurons of the three adult organs are surviving larval neurons. However, the anterior organ includes some sensilla that are generated during pupal stages. Also, we observe apoptosis in a third larval pharyngeal organ. Hence, our experimental data show for the first time the integration of complex, fully differentiated larval sense organs into the nervous system of the adult fly and demonstrate the embryonic origin of their neurons. Moreover, they identify metamorphosis of this sensory system as a complex process involving neuronal persistence, generation of additional neurons and neuronal death. Our conclusions are based on combined analysis of reporter expression from P[GAL4] driver lines, horseradish peroxidase injections into blastoderm stage embryos, cell labeling via heat-shock-induced flip-out in the embryo, bromodeoxyuridine birth dating and staining for programmed cell death. They challenge the general view that sense organs are replaced during metamorphosis.
Recently published studies of islet cell function reveal unexpected features of glucagon-like peptide-1 (GLP-1) receptor-mediated signal transduction in the pancreatic beta-cell. Although GLP-1 is established to be a cAMP-elevating agent, these studies demonstrate that protein kinase A (PKA) is not the only cAMP-binding protein by which GLP-1 acts. Instead, an alternative cAMP signaling mechanism has been described, one in which GLP-1 activates cAMP-binding proteins designated as cAMP-regulated guanine nucleotide exchange factors (cAMPGEFs, also known as Epac). Two variants of Epac (Epac1 and Epac2) are expressed in beta-cells, and downregulation of Epac function diminishes stimulatory effects of GLP-1 on beta-cell Ca(2+) signaling and insulin secretion. Of particular note are new reports demonstrating that Epac couples beta-cell cAMP production to the stimulation of fast Ca(2+)-dependent exocytosis. It is also reported that Epac mediates the cAMP-dependent mobilization of Ca(2+) from intracellular Ca(2+) stores. This is a process of Ca(2+)-induced Ca(2+) release (CICR), and it generates an increase of [Ca(2+)](i) that may serve as a direct stimulus for mitochondrial ATP production and secretory granule exocytosis. This article summarizes new findings concerning GLP-1 receptor-mediated signal transduction and seeks to define the relative importance of Epac and PKA to beta-cell stimulus-secretion coupling.
This review summarizes the experimental evidence in support of dopamine's role as a chemical messenger for light adaptation. Dopamine is released by a unique set of amacrine cells and activates D1 and D2 dopamine receptors distributed throughout the retina. Multiple dopamine-dependent physiological mechanisms result in an increased signal flow through cone circuits and a diminution of signal flow through rod circuits. Dopamine also has multiple trophic roles in retinal function related to circadian rhythmicity, cell survival and eye growth. In a reciprocal way, the health of the dopaminergic neurons depends on their receiving light-driven synaptic inputs. Dopamine neurons appear early in development, become functional in advance of the animal's onset of vision and begin to die in aging animals. Some diseases affecting photoreceptor function also diminish day/night differences in dopamine release and turnover. A reduction in retinal dopamine, as occurs in Parkinsonian patients, results in reduced visual contrast sensitivity.

Nociceptive pain alerts the body to potential or actual tissue damage. By contrast, neuropathic pain, which results from injury or damage to the nervous system, persists long after all signs of the original injury have disappeared. This type of maladaptive pain presents a significant clinical problem, as it responds poorly or unpredictably to classical analgesics. There is also no single, uniformly well-tolerated drug that is reliably helpful. Current understanding of the etiology of neuropathic pain reveals seven potential targets for therapeutic intervention. These are: 1) ectopic activity in damaged peripheral nerves; 2) increased excitability in spinal dorsal horn neurons; 3) restoration or augmentation of GABAergic inhibition in the dorsal horn; 4) supraspinal and affective mechanisms; 5) alterations in the sympathetic nervous system; 6) spinal peptidergic mechanisms; and 7) spinal excitatory amino acid receptors. Current therapeutic approaches, using drugs such as gabapentin, anticonvulsants, ketamine or methadone, and potential new approaches are discussed in the context of these seven drug targets.
Pharmacotherapy for anxiety disorders is an active area of research. A variety of drug groups have been shown to be effective in treating many of the anxiety disorders, with selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) being considered first-line agents for virtually all anxiety disorders. There is a clinical need for alternative drug treatments, as many patients do not achieve a complete response and experience significant adverse effects. The successful use of antiepileptic drugs in mood disorders has led clinicians and researchers to investigate their potential efficacy in other psychiatric disorders, particularly in anxiety disorders. There have been a number of investigations conducted in the form of case reports, case series and open-label trials, suggesting the potential usefulness of antiepileptic drug treatment in a variety of anxiety disorders. More reliable evidence for the use of antiepileptic drugs in anxiety disorders can be gleaned from recent placebo-controlled trials. Thus far, the strongest placebo-controlled evidence has demonstrated the efficacy of pregabalin in treating social phobia and generalised anxiety disorder, while smaller or less robust controlled trials have suggested the potential efficacy of gabapentin in social phobia, lamotrigine in post-traumatic stress disorder, and valproic acid in panic disorder. Antiepileptic drugs may have a place in the treatment of anxiety disorders; however, further investigation is warranted to determine in what circumstances they should be used as monotherapy or as augmenting agents in individuals who are partially or non-responsive to conventional therapy.
Converging evidence from recent years indicates that the current attitude to the use of immunomodulatory drugs in the treatment of multiple sclerosis (MS) may be too conservative. This evidence originates from studies of the pathophysiology and pathology of MS, magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) studies and clinical trials. Several studies have shown that antigen spreading and propagation of self-recognition seem to occur during the clinical progression of MS. The immunopathology may change during the course of disease. Primary selective demyelination can be followed by a secondary oligodendrocyte loss and remyelination becomes less effective. MRI studies have shown that patients with clinically isolated syndromes, who at presentation have more than a few brain lesions on MRI, have a high risk of disease progression over a period of 5-10 years. The most direct evidence comes from two placebo-controlled trials of interferon-beta in very early MS. A delay in time to conversion to clinically definite MS and a significant decrease in MRI activity support an early stage treatment strategy. Taken together, the evidence indicates that treatment with immunomodulatory therapy should be started at an early stage in patients with a high-risk profile for further disease activity, although this may result in over-treatment of a small number of patients. However, further prolonged studies are needed to investigate the long-term benefit of early-stage treatment in MS.
Restless legs syndrome (RLS) was first described in 1672 but it is only recently that this disorder has attracted attention in defining its phenotype, and identifying its aetiology, pathogenesis and pharmacological treatment. RLS can be divided into primary (idiopathic) and secondary forms. RLS is common, affecting 5-15% of the total population and manifesting at any age from childhood to late adulthood. Prevalence tends to increase with patient age and there may be geographic variation. There is a clear genetic contribution to primary RLS and evidence for dopaminergic dysfunction. Although not all patients with RLS require medication, there can be a substantial reduction in the patient's quality of life related to pain, poor sleep and excessive daytime sleepiness. A variety of medications are now available for the symptomatic treatment of RLS. Dopaminergic therapy is currently the treatment of choice, usually initiated with a long-acting dopamine agonist, thereby avoiding some of the complications associated with levodopa. Anticonvulsants may be used as second-line treatment. Levodopa should be reserved for those patients who fail to respond to alternative medications because of the high risk of inducing augmentation. Hypnosedatives also have a role in RLS management. Patients with intractable RLS may require combination treatment. Several systemic disorders can cause RLS, and these should be identified and treated appropriately.
Hydrogen peroxide (H(2)O(2)) is a stable, uncharged and freely diffusable reactive oxygen species (ROS) and second messenger. The generation of H(2)O(2) in the brain is relatively high because of the high oxygen consumption in the tissue. Alzheimer's disease is a neurodegenerative disorder characterised by the appearance of amyloid-beta (Abeta)-containing plaques and hyperphosphorylated tau-containing neurofibrillary tangles. The pathology of Alzheimer's disease is also associated with oxidative stress and H(2)O(2) is implicated in this and the neurotoxicity of the Abeta peptide. The ability for Abeta to generate H(2)O(2), and interactions of H(2)O(2) with iron and copper to generate highly toxic ROS, may provide a mechanism for the oxidative stress associated with Alzheimer's disease. The role of heavy metals in Alzheimer's disease pathology and the toxicity of the H(2)O(2) molecule may be closely linked. Drugs that prevent oxidative stress include antioxidants, modifiers of the enzymes involved in ROS generation and metabolism, metal chelating agents and agents that can remove the stimulus for ROS generation. In Alzheimer's disease the H(2)O(2) molecule must be considered a therapeutic target for treatment of the oxidative stress associated with the disease. The actions of H(2)O(2) include modifications of proteins, lipids and DNA, all of which are effects seen in the Alzheimer's disease brain and may contribute to the loss of synaptic function characteristic of the disease. The effectiveness of drugs to target this component of the disease pathology remains to be determined; however, metal chelators may provide an effective route and have the added bonus in the case of clioquinol of potentially reducing the Abeta load. Future research and development of agents that specifically target the H(2)O(2) molecule or enzymes involved in its metabolism may provide the future route to Alzheimer's disease therapy.
Clinical trials of pharmacological agents in stroke have mainly focused on events that need to be modified in the very acute stage, such as restoration of blood flow with thrombolytic therapy or reducing the effects of ischaemia with neuroprotective therapy. Thrombolytic therapy is, however, only effective within the first few hours of stroke onset and so far, no neuroprotective therapy has proven to be efficacious in humans. Thus, there is a great need for new pharmacological strategies to improve outcome after stroke. Accumulating evidence supports the assumption that the brain is plastic and improvements can be expected after permanent injuries. Acute and chronic alterations in neurotransmitter regulation after injury affects plasticity and may thus provide a basis for new pharmacological targets for stroke recovery. The search for pharmacological therapies that affect the recovery process after a permanent injury has been intensified during the last decade. Amphetamines, in combination with training, are currently one of the most promising pharmacological strategies studied for recovery after stroke. Several non-mutually exclusive hypotheses, more or less supported by experimental studies, have tried to explain the mechanisms underlying the facilitation of recovery of function with amphetamine treatment. Amphetamines are believed to hasten the processes in the brain, such as plasticity mechanisms and resolution of diaschisis. The combination of amphetamine and task-specific training seems to be of importance to the outcome. Results from animal studies are consistent between different models and species, and mainly show an increased rate of recovery but there are a few exceptions, with some studies reporting no effect or even a decreased recovery rate. In humans the number of randomised controlled studies of amphetamines is growing rapidly. Results from a Cochrane systematic review indicate a faster motor and language recovery rate with treatment, but the number of studies is too few and studies are too small to draw definite conclusions about the effect on recovery of stroke. Data in the systematic review also indicate that the mortality rate is higher in amphetamine-treated patients compared with placebo-treated patients. However, this is most likely because of baseline imbalances between the treatment groups with patients with more severe strokes being allocated to amphetamine treatment. Further clinical trials are justified, but at present amphetamines should not be used in clinical practice.




Pregabalin is a potent ligand for the alpha-2-delta subunit of voltage-gated calcium channels in the central nervous system that exhibits potent anticonvulsant, analgesic, and anxiolytic activity in a range of animal models. In addition, pregabalin has been shown to be a highly effective adjunctive therapy for partial seizures in clinical trials. Potent binding to the alpha-2-delta site reduces depolarization-induced calcium influx with a consequential modulation in excitatory neurotransmitter release. Pregabalin has no demonstrated effects on GABAergic mechanisms. Pregabalin demonstrates highly predictable and linear pharmacokinetics, a profile that makes it easy to use in clinical practice. Absorption is extensive, rapid, and proportional to dose. Time to maximal plasma concentration is approximately 1 h and steady state is achieved within 24-48 h. These characteristics reflect the observed onset of efficacy as early as day two in clinical trials. High bioavailability, a mean elimination half life (t(1/2)) of 6.3 h, and dose-proportional maximal plasma concentrations and total exposures predict a dose-response relationship in clinical practice and allow an effective starting dose of 150 mg/day in clinical practice without need for titration. Administration with food has no clinically relevant effect on the amount of pregabalin absorbed, providing for a dosing regimen uncomplicated by meals. Pregabalin does not bind to plasma proteins and is excreted virtually unchanged (&lt;2% metabolism) by the kidneys. It is not subject to hepatic metabolism and does not induce or inhibit liver enzymes such as the cytochrome P450 system. Therefore, pregabalin is unlikely to cause, or be subject to, pharmacokinetic drug-drug interactions--an expectation that has been confirmed in clinical pharmacokinetic studies. However, dose adjustment may be necessary in patients with renal insufficiency. Thus, the pharmacological and pharmacokinetic profiles of pregabalin provide a predictable basis for its use in clinical practice.
Television (TV) is the most provocative visual stimulus and evokes (first) seizures in susceptible children and adolescents, especially when flickering and patterned images are shown. This has led to the initiative to develop guidelines for broadcasters. The development of new types of TV screens will not remove the need for control of broadcast material. It could be argued that rather than protect the whole viewing audience by application of broadcasting guidelines, only those who are photosensitive should be protected. But maybe we should do both, because most known sensitive patients will benefit from greater safety and will not be dependent on fashionable ideas by commercial broadcasters that are not (yet) familiar with the guidelines. No such guidelines exist for video material, electronic screen games, and the Internet. It would be wise to adopt the guidelines for video material and electronic screen games.



From a large consecutive sample (n = 1,312) of hospital-treated alcoholics with multiaxial ratings, 105 were chosen for personal examination two decades after the subjects' first admission (1949-1969) for alcohol problems. To study patterns of successful adjustment, 70 were chosen on the basis of a good social adjustment (health insurance data) at follow-up, whereas the control subjects had been granted a disability pension. The first follow-up was carried through in 1982-1983. In 1998-1999, the same 105 subjects were studied concerning mortality rate and adjustment patterns. In the good social adjustment group, 33% had deceased as compared with 63% in the control group (p &lt; 0.01). Twenty-three out of 44 surviving subjects accepted a personal interview. Favourable adjustment was generally reported as being stable over the follow-up period. Several subjects reported stable non-problem drinking and others a change between abstinent and non-abstinent adjustment patterns.
From a total population of 10,766 Swedish 50- to 59-year-old women, 6,917 (64.2%) participated in the Women's Health in Lund Area (WHILA) study, and among them 6,623 (95.7%) answered the questions on alcohol consumption. One out of 4 women (26.0%) consumed no alcohol in an ordinary week (non-drinkers), 57.4% consumed not more than 83 g alcohol, 12.5% consumed 84-167 g and 4.2% consumed 168 g or more. The weekly drinkers had a median consumption of 40.0 g alcohol (range 2.5-1,036.0) and the main sort of alcohol was wine. Comparing the four drinking groups, most differences occurred between the non-drinking and the weekly drinking women. The non-drinkers had lower socio-demographic status, poorer health and more symptoms, especially physical symptoms. In a multivariate logistic regression analysis, most associations between non-drinking and lower socio-demographic status remained.
To compare levels of biochemical markers in ventricular cerebrospinal fluid (vCSF) between patients with aqueductal stenosis (AS) and idiopathic normal pressure hydrocephalus (INPH) and relate these results to clinical outcome after surgery. Neurofilament light protein, tau protein, sulfatide, vasoactive intestinal peptide (VIP), neuropeptide PYY (NPY) and CSF/serum albumin ratio were measured in vCSF from 18 consecutive AS and 19 consecutive INPH patients. Clinical outcome was evaluated after surgery by standardized indices. The levels of markers were related to clinical outcome. No differences in any of the markers were found between AS and INPH patients. The concentration of sulfatide and albumin ratio correlated inversely with psychometric improvement, whilst VIP and NPY correlated inversely with improvement in alertness. The similar levels of biochemical markers in vCSF from AS and INPH patients indicate similarities in pathophysiology and turnover rate of vCSF despite differences in CSF dynamics. High albumin ratio and sulfatide concentrations in vCSF in hydrocephalus patients have negative implications for surgical outcome and might indicate concomitant cerebrovascular disorder.
Kinematic analysis of lip and voice spectrum analysis were used to assess the influence of both execution and observation of arm-mouth-related actions on speech production. In experiments 1 and 2 participants brought either a cherry or an apple to their mouth and either pronounced the syllable BA (experiment 1) or emitted a nonspeech-related vocalization (experiment 2). In the other three experiments participants observed arm actions performed by the experimenter and pronounced the syllable BA. In experiment 3, they observed the action of bringing the cherry or apple to the mouth. In experiments 4 and 5, they observed a pantomime of the same action performed by the experimenter with his own arm (experiment 4) or with a nonbiological arm (experiment 5). The results showed that the formant 2 of the vowel 'a' increased when participants executed the bringing-to-the-mouth act with the apple or observed its execution or pantomime with the experimenter's arm (experiments 1, 3 and 4). In contrast, no modification in the vowel formants was found during a nonspeech-related vocalization (experiment 2) and during observation of an action with a nonbiological arm (experiment 5). Finally, the opening of the lips was larger when the participant brought the apple rather than the cherry to the mouth and pronounced BA (experiment 1). Taken together, the results of the present study suggest that the execution and observation of the bringing-to-the-mouth action activate a mouth articulation posture (probably due to the act of food manipulation with the mouth) which selectively influences speech production. They support the idea that the system involved in speech production shares and may derive from the neural substrate which is involved in the control of arm-mouth interactions and, in general, of arm actions.
Dendritic spines in the hippocampus are sources of synaptic contact that may be involved in processes of learning and memory [Moser (1999) Cell. Mol. Life Sci., 55, 593-600]. These structures are sensitive to sex differences as females in proestrus possess a greater density than males and females in other stages of the estrous cycle [Woolley et al. (1990) J. Neurosci., 10, 4035-4039]. Moreover, exposure to an acute stressful event increases spine density in the male hippocampus but decreases spine density in the female hippocampus [Shors et al. (2001) J. Neurosci., 21, 6292-6297]. Here we demonstrate that antagonism of N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA) receptors prevents the increase in spine density as females transition from diestrus 2 to proestrus, when estrogen levels are rising. Antagonism of NMDA receptors during exposure to the stressful event also prevented the changes in spine density in males and females, despite differences in the direction of these effects. Thus, the stress-induced increase in spine density was prevented in the male hippocampus as was the stress-induced decrease in spine density in the female hippocampus. NMDA receptor antagonism during exposure to the stressful event did not alter corticosterone levels or the corticosterone response to stress. These data suggest that both increases and decreases in spine density can be dependent on NMDA receptor activation.
Synaptically released glutamate binds to ionotropic or metabotropic glutamate receptors. Metabotropic glutamate receptors (mGluRs) are G-protein-coupled receptors and can be divided into three subclasses (Group I-III) depending on their pharmacology and coupling to signal transduction cascades. Group I mGluRs are coupled to phospholipase C and are implicated in several important physiological processes, including activity-dependent synaptic plasticity, but their exact role in synaptic plasticity remains unclear. Synaptic plasticity can manifest itself as an increase or decrease of synaptic efficacy, referred to as long-term potentiation (LTP) and long-term depression (LTD). The likelihood, degree and direction of the change in synaptic efficacy depends on the history of the synapse and is referred to as 'metaplasticity'. We provide direct experimental evidence for an involvement of group I mGluRs in metaplasticity in CA1 hippocampal synapses. Bath application of a low concentration of the specific group I agonist 3,5-dihydroxyphenylglycine (DHPG), which does not affect basal synaptic transmission, resulted in a leftward shift of the frequency-response function for the induction of LTD and LTP in nave synapses. DHPG resulted in the induction of LTP at frequencies which induced LTD in control slices. These alterations in the induction of LTD and LTP resemble the metaplastic changes observed in previously depressed synapses. In addition, in the presence of DHPG additional potentiation could be induced after LTP had apparently been saturated. These findings provide strong evidence for an involvement of group I mGluRs in the regulation of metaplasticity in the CA1 field of the hippocampus.
The extracellular protease cascade of plasminogen activators and plasminogen are known to regulate neuronal plasticity and extracellular matrix modification, and to be important factors involved in producing long-term potentiation in the CNS. The purpose of this study is to examine the expression of plasminogen activators in primary afferents and its role in nociceptive pathways after peripheral nerve injury. We found the induction of mRNAs for tissue type plasminogen activator (tPA) and urokinase plasminogen activator (uPA) in the rat dorsal root ganglia following sciatic nerve transection. Immunoreactivity for tPA was increased in laminae I and II of the dorsal horn and, importantly, the increase in proteolytic activity mediated by tPA was observed in the same area. As neither immunoreactivity for uPA nor uPA-mediated proteolysis was observed, we further examined the effects of tPA on dorsal horn excitability and neuropathic pain behaviour. Intrathecal injection of a specific inhibitor of tPA decreased electrical stimulation-induced Fos expression in dorsal horn neurons following axotomy, and also prevented the development of thermal hyperalgesia following partial sciatic nerve ligation. These findings suggest that the increased tPA in the dorsal horn due to mRNA expression in the dorsal root ganglia increases the dorsal horn excitability and has an important role in pain behaviour after peripheral nerve injury. The tPA-mediated hypersensitivity in dorsal horn neurons may be a novel molecular mechanism of neuropathic pain.
Our previous studies have demonstrated that neurokinin-1 receptor (NK1R)-immunoreactive (ir) neurons in the pre-Btzinger Complex (pre-BtC), the hypothesized kernel of respiratory rhythmogenesis, receive both glutamatergic excitatory and GABAergic or glycinergic inhibitory inputs. Neuromodulators, such as substance P (SP) and opioids, play important roles in normal respiratory activity and respiratory disorders. The identification of the relationship between neurotransmitters and NK1R-ir neurons at the cellular level is essential for understanding the synaptic interaction within the pre-BtC network. Using immunofluorescence and immunogold-silver staining, we wished to exploit SP and enkephalin (ENK) immunoreactivity and their relationships with glutamate, GABA, glycine, or NK1R in the pre-BtC in adult Sprague-Dawley rats. The pre-BtC contained a substantial amount of SP-ir and ENK-ir boutons. They were largely colocalized with glutamate and much less so with GABA. Glycine immunoreactivity was rarely found in either SP-ir or ENK-ir boutons. A number of SP-ir boutons were ENK-ir as well. Synapses were commonly found between SP-ir or ENK-ir terminals and NK1R-ir neurons in the pre-BtC. Most of them were asymmetric. Symmetric synapses made up 10% of all synapses examined between SP-ir boutons and NK1R-ir neurons, and 19% of ENK/NK1R synapses. Colocalization of SP and/or ENK with glutamate in boutons in the pre-BtC implies the combined synaptic release of excitatory amino acid and neuropeptides, which may exert combined post-synaptic effects onto NK1R-ir neurons and contribute to respiratory activity.
We recently confirmed that oxidized galectin-1 is a novel factor enhancing axonal growth in peripheral nerves after axotomy, but the process of extracellular release and oxidization of endogenous galectin-1 in the injured nervous tissue remains unknown. In the present study, we examined the distribution of galectin-1 in adult rat dorsal root ganglia (DRG) in vivo and in vitro. By RT-PCR analysis and in situ hybridization histochemistry, galectin-1 mRNA was detected in both DRG neurons and non-neuronal cells. Immunohistochemical analyses revealed that galectin-1 was distributed diffusely throughout the cytoplasm in smaller diameter neurons and Schwann cells in DRG sections. In contrast, the immunoreactivity for galectin-1 was detected in almost all DRG neurons from an early stage in culture (3 h after seeding) and was restricted to the surface and/or extracellular region of neurons and Schwann cells at later stages in culture. In a manner similar to the primary cultured cells, we also observed the surface and extracellular expression of this molecule in immortalized adult mouse Schwann cells (IMS32). Western blot analysis has revealed that both reduced and oxidized forms of galectin-1 were detected in culture media of DRG neurons and IMS32. These findings suggest that galectin-1 is externalized from DRG neurons and Schwann cells upon axonal injury. Some of the molecules in the extracellular milieu may be converted to the oxidized form, which lacks lectin activity but could act on neural tissue as a cytokine.
We examined neural activity, in the frontal lobes, associated with speech production during affective states. Using functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI), the blood oxygen level-dependent (BOLD) response to the overt reading of emotionally neutral sentences was measured before and after a happy or sad mood induction. There was no explicit demand to produce affect-congruent speech and a cover story was used to de-emphasize the significance of the speech task in light of our experimental aims. Each fMRI measurement was acquired 6 s after the onset of sentence presentation so that speech could be recorded while the scanner noise was minimal; speech parameters (e.g. pitch variation) were extracted from the sentences and regressed against fMRI data. In the sad group we found the predicted changes in affect and pitch variation. Further, the fMRI data confirmed our hypothesis in that the 'reading effect' (i.e. the BOLD response to reading minus the BOLD response to baseline stimuli) in the supracallosal anterior cingulate cortex covaried negatively with both pitch variation and affect. Our results suggest that the anterior cingulate cortex modulates paralinguistic features of speech during affective states, thus placing this neural structure at the interface between action and emotions.
The accumulation of amyloid beta-peptide (Abeta) in the brain is a critical pathological process in Alzheimer's disease (AD). Recent studies have implicated intracellular Abeta in neurodegeneration in AD. To investigate the generation of intracellular Abeta, we established human neuroblastoma SH-SY5Y cells stably expressing wild-type amyloid precursor protein (APP), Swedish mutant APP, APP plus presenilin 1 (PS1) and presenilin 2 (PS2; wild-type or familial AD-associated mutant), and quantified intracellular Abeta40 and Abeta42 in formic acid extracts by sensitive Western blotting. Levels of both intracellular Abeta40 and Abeta42 were 2-3-fold higher in cells expressing Swedish APP, compared with those expressing wild-type APP. Intracellular Abeta42/Abeta40 ratios were approximately 0.5 in these cells. These ratios were increased markedly in cells expressing mutant PS1 or PS2 compared with those expressing their wild-type counterparts, consistent with the observed changes in secreted Abeta42/Abeta40 ratios. High total levels of intracellular Abeta were observed in cells expressing mutant PS2 because of a marked elevation of Abeta42. Immunofluorescence staining additionally revealed more intense Abeta42 immunoreactivity in mutant PS2-expressing cells than in wild-type cells, which was partially colocalized with immunoreactivity for the trans-Golgi network and endosomes. The data collectively indicate that PS mutations promote the accumulation of intracellular Abeta42, which appears to be localized in multiple subcellular compartments.
Despite considerable progress in the last few years, the neurobiologic basis of autism in tuberous sclerosis complex is still largely unknown and its clinical management represents a major challenge for child neurologists. Recent evidence suggests that early-onset refractory epilepsy and functional deficits associated with the anatomical lesions in the temporal lobes may be associated with autism. No one factor alone (cognitive impairment, tuber localization, occurrence of infantile spasms, focal EEG abnormalities), can be causally linked with the abnormal behaviour. Autism may also reflect a direct effect of the abnormal genetic program. Incidence of autism associated with Tuberous Sclerosis may be significantly higher than the rates of cardiac and renal abnormalities, for which screening is routinely conducted in this population. Hopefully, early diagnosis of autism will allow for earlier treatment and the potential for better outcome for children with Tuberous Sclerosis.
The development of modern neuroscience away from the concepts of Hippocrates and Galen can be traced to the writings of some 17th century clinicians, especially Thomas Willis. His exceptional skills in observation and description allow a window into the experiences of our medical forebears. His approach to the management of infection-related coma in a child is amenable to modern interpretation and comparison with modern management because of the clarity of his clinical descriptions. Modern clinicians may benefit from this historical perspective into influences on the origins of neuroscience. The different outcome for a child presenting in the 17th and 21st century encourage grateful reflection on our current privileged position.
In vivo microdialysis was used to monitor the effects of oral aripiprazole and olanzapine on basal extracellular concentrations of dopamine, 3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid (DOPAC), homovanillic acid (HVA) and 5-hydroxyindole acetic acid (5-HIAA) in the medial prefrontal cortex and striatum of conscious, freely moving rats. Acute aripiprazole administration did not affect dopamine output, but produced moderate increases in DOPAC and HVA concentrations, in medial prefrontal cortex or striatum of drug-nave rats. Similarly, aripiprazole did not affect dopamine output but produced moderate elevations in DOPAC and HVA concentrations in the striatum of chronic aripiprazole-pretreated rats. Olanzapine produced comparatively larger elevations in dopamine, DOPAC, and HVA in both regions, which, in the striatum, were diminished after chronic olanzapine exposure. Aripiprazole reduced extracellular 5-HIAA concentrations in the medial prefrontal cortex and striatum of drug-nai;ve rats, but not in chronic aripiprazole-pretreated rats. Together, these data provide in vivo evidence of aripiprazole-induced changes in forebrain dopaminergic and serotonergic function that may reflect its partial agonist activity at presynaptic dopamine D(2) and 5-HT(1A) receptors and antagonist activity at 5-HT(2A) receptors.
The stunning, intricate interaction between the visual, vestibular and optomotor systems--each a miracle on its own--ensures maintenance of orientation in space as well as visual recognition and target selection despite a host of sensory conflicts and adversary disturbances. Their main goals are to keep a target of interest on the fovea by either maintaining or shifting the direction of gaze in order to produce an accurate internal representation of the visual surroundings, in particular the selected target, and to continuously mirror the spatial relationship between these various visual elements and the self. Not surprising, the implementation of this host of elaborate neural networks encompasses almost every part of the brain, including the brainstem, cerebellum, extrapyramidal system and many areas of the cerebral cortex. Thus far, these systems are among the best investigated in brain research; and enormous knowledge was amassed over the last century employing a variety of techniques, including single cell recordings, eye movement studies, functional imaging and neuropsychological observations. In addition, this prolific line of research has enlightened many fundamental principles of neural and neuronal processing, which have subsequently enriched other fields of brain research as well as computational neuroscience, e.g. the discovery of receptive fields, which have now become a ubiquitous concept in many other areas of neurophysiology. This (improperly) brief, fractional and undoubtedly biased Vademecum is meant to accompany the reader into this marvellous field of neurophysiology and neurology. In particular, it stresses the clinical application of its functional neuroanatomy at the bedside, which, in many respects, is superior to other means of investigating a patient.
Missed cerebral aneurysms in CT-negative patients can have serious implications. We set out to determine the usefulness of cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) spectrophotometry and the individual significance of CSF oxyhaemoglobin, bilirubin and methaemoglobin in 463 CT scan-negative patients with suspected subarachnoid haemorrhage (SAH) and normal neurological examination. CSF spectrophotometry resulted in the diagnosis of an intracranial aneurysm in 2% (9/463) of patients with CT-negative suspected SAH. No aneurysms were found in patients in whom spectrophotometry was negative for haem pigments. Less than 1% of patients with oxyhaemoglobin alone had aneurysms diagnosed, whilst 21% of patients with bilirubin had an aneurysm. CSF spectrophotometry is an important investigation in patients with CT-negative suspected SAH, particularly where clinical suspicion is strong. Patients positive for bilirubin are likely to provide a high yield of aneurysmal bleed and should undergo angiography. Patients with oxyhaemoglobin alone in whom SAH is strongly suspected may benefit from angiography. Based on a small number of patients, we recommend that patients with methaemoglobin should also be investigated. Patients with negative spectrophotometry are unlikely to benefit from further investigation.
Divers may be at risk of long-term CNS damage from non-symptomatic hyperbaric exposure. We investigated the effect of severe, controlled hyperbaric exposure on a group of healthy goats with similar histories. Thirty goats were exposed to various dive profiles over a period of 5 years, with 17 experiencing decompression sickness (DCS). Brains were scanned using magnetic resonance (MR) imaging techniques. The animals were then culled and grossly examined, with the brain and spinal cord sent for neuropathological examination. No significant correlation was found between age, years diving, DCS or exposure to pressure with MR-detectable lesions in the brain, or with neuropathological lesions in the brain or spinal cord. However, spinal scarring was noted in 3 animals that had suffered from spinal DCS.

Twin and family-based studies indicate that genetic factors might be involved in the risk of transient ischemic attack (TIA) and ischemic stroke (IS). Identification of genetic risk factors for new vascular events after cerebral ischemia may target secondary prevention. The overall aim of POLARIS is to study which polymorphisms predispose to new vascular events after TIA/IS and to assess their predictive value. Patients who have had a TIA or IS of presumed arterial origin are included. The study design is twofold. In part one the prevalences of polymorphisms will be compared between 300 long-term survivors of the Dutch TIA Trial (average follow-up 10 years) and 820 patients with recent TIA/IS. In part two a cohort of 820 patients with recent TIA/IS will be followed for the occurrence of vascular events for an average of 3.5 years. Several polymorphisms of interest will be genotyped, including factor V Leiden, prothrombin 20210A, 5,10-methylenetetrahydrofolate reductase, HR2 haplotype factor V and factor XIII Val34Leu.
This commentary is the third in a series commemorating the 50th anniversary of the American College of Sports Medicine. The charge to the commentators was to provide insight on the origins and directions in the fields of physical activity and disease prevention (Haskell), applied exercise physiology (Wilmore), biomechanics and neuroscience (Enoka), and the physiology of exercise (Holloszy). In contrast to the innovation and vitality that characterizes the activities of the College in most of these fields, the inclusion of biomechanics and neuroscience as essential elements in realizing the mission of the College has been much less impressive. What we have here, as the saying goes, is a failure to communicate.
The present study examined the effect of age on the spontaneous motor rhythms of mice during wheel running. The spontaneous motor tempo (SMT) of wheel running was measured for the P8 strain of the senescence-accelerated mouse (SAMP8) by recording the sequence of time intervals (measured in milliseconds) for successive revolutions ofa run-wheel over the course of 16 days. Analyses of the distribution of interrevolution intervals of 2-, 7-, and 12-month-old SAMP8 revealed an age-related slowing of wheel running and a corresponding increase in variability consistent with Weber's law. All three age groups also demonstrated a practice effect over the course of testing best described by a power law. These findings provide evidence of age-related changes in the spontaneous motor rhythms of the SAMP8 that occur as early as 7 months of age. The results are consistent with age-related changes in human subjects and suggest that spontaneous wheel-running behavior in rodents may be a good model for studying SMT.
In order to improve the productivity of house musk shrews, we investigated whether a male could impregnate more than one female within 24 h. Eighteen males and 40 females aged one year were used in this experiment. The mating systems were as follows: one male was paired with one female, one male was paired with two females, and one male was paired with four females. In the fertility rate, six out of 6, 4 of 12 and 4 of 20 females became pregnant and gave birth under three systems, respectively. In the copulatory behavior, numbers of intromissions and ejaculations were more in the 1:1 mating group as compared with the 1:2 and 1:4 groups. We conclude that it is possible for a male to impregnate about one female within 24 h.
Circadian rhythms of body temperature, heart rate, and locomotor activity were observed in the unanesthetized and unrestrained Syrian hamsters, Djungarian hamsters and Chinese hamsters, and the differences in these biological characters among the three species of hamster were investigated. In each species, body temperature, heart rate, and locomotor activity in the dark period were higher than those in the light period. Heart rate of Chinese hamsters was higher than that of the others in both the light and dark periods. In addition, it was found that the body temperature of Djungarian hamsters decreased rapidly one time a day. These results show species differences in body temperature, heart rate and locomotor activity of Syrian, Djungarian and Chinese hamsters.
Although visual feedback (i.e. seeing our hand while we move it) improves the accuracy and efficiency of grasping movements, these positive effects of visual feedback are not consistently found for catching. It was the aim of our study to compare the efficiency of the use of visual feedback in grasping and catching and to explore possible reasons why visual feedback effects have been found less consistently in catching than in grasping. The first reason might be technical. Less sensitive measurement methods have been used in catching; this might explain why some catching studies did not find visual feedback effects. This problem was avoided in our study by using the same methods for both the catching and the grasping task. The effects of visual feedback were examined under standard conditions and under conditions where subjects wore prismatic glasses. Nevertheless, visual feedback effects were obtained for grasping but not for catching movements. This confirms that the difference in the use of visual feedback is real and not due to technical differences between grasping and catching studies. The second reason relates to the different temporal demands of grasping and catching. During a catching task, subjects have less time to respond, and therefore might not have sufficient time to use visual feedback. We tested this explanation with a task that required subjects to reach for a stationary object (i.e. grasping) as quickly as they had for the moving object in the catching task. However, even in this time-constrained grasping task, significant visual feedback effects were found, suggesting that time constraints do not explain the lack of visual feedback effects in catching. In our last explanation, we suggest that possibly the mode of motor control is different for catching and grasping, more particularly while grasping allows for on-line corrections, such corrections might not be possible for catching movements. We tested this explanation with a catching task that contained perturbation trials. During those perturbation trials, the target trajectory was shifted, after the subject had already started to move. We found that subjects responded to the target shifts with an appropriate shift of their catching response. This shows that on-line corrections are possible in the case of catching movements. We conclude that neither differences in the temporal demands nor in the capacity to make on-line modifications explain why visual feedback is used less effectively in the catching than in the grasping task.
Although previous studies have demonstrated the existence of coordinated eye and head movements during gaze shifts, none has studied the temporal and spatial characteristics of the various body segments during gaze transfers that require whole body movements. Without this information it is not possible to determine the extent of the interaction between the oculomotor control system and the motor control systems responsible for moving other body parts. Presented here is a detailed analysis of the timing and kinematic characteristics of participants' ( N = 5) eye, head, upper body and feet during rotation of their body to align with light cues positioned at eccentric locations (45, 90, and 135 degrees, left and right of centre). For all rotation amplitudes there was a clear sequence of body segment orientation (eye, head, upper body and feet) consistent with previous studies of locomotor steering and significant correlations between the onset latency times of the eyes and all body segments. There were also significant correlations between temporally aligned kinematic profiles of the feet and the eye in space for all movement amplitudes. The extent of correlation was significantly lower for displacement profiles of the feet versus head and of the feet versus upper body. These findings demonstrate substantial eye-foot coordination during a novel whole-body rotation paradigm and provide evidence that the output of the motor systems responsible for moving the feet is heavily influenced by the motor systems responsible for generating and coordinating eye and head movements to peripheral targets.
Cortical activity depends on the balance between excitatory and inhibitory influences. Several different excitatory and inhibitory systems in the human motor cortex can be tested by transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS). While considerable information is known about these different inhibitory and excitatory phenomena individually, how they are related to each other and how they interact is not well understood. Several recent studies have investigated the interactions between some of these circuits by applying them together. It has been found that short-interval intracortical inhibition (SICI) and long-interval intracortical inhibition (LICI) are mediated by different circuits. LICI appears to inhibit SICI, which may occur through presynaptic GABA(B) receptors. Interhemispheric inhibition elicited by stimulation of the contralateral motor cortex also inhibits SICI and may share inhibitory mechanisms with LICI. Long-interval afferent inhibition induced by median nerve stimulation inhibits LICI but does not interact with SICI. Based on these results, a model of interactions between different inhibitory systems that can be tested and refined in the future is proposed. Further studies of the interaction between different cortical inhibitory and excitatory circuits should improve our understanding of the functional organization of the motor cortex and allow better interpretation of abnormal findings in disease states. It may also be developed into a new way of studying the pathophysiology of diseases and the effects of intervention.
The excitability of the corticospinal motor pathways to transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) can be differentially modulated by a variety of motor tasks. However, there is emerging evidence that linguistic tasks may alter excitability of the corticospinal motor pathways also. In this study we evaluated the effect of several movement-free, low-level linguistic processes involved in reading and writing on the excitability of the bilateral corticospinal motor pathways in a group of right-handed subjects. The study included two series of tasks, visual searching/matching and imaginal writing/drawing. The tasks were designed to roughly correspond with elemental aspects of the reading and writing, grapheme recognition and grapheme generation, respectively. Each task series included separate blocks with different task targets: letters, digits, semantically easy-to-code (i.e. geometric) shapes, and semantically hard-to-code shapes, as well as control blocks with no task. During task performance, TMS was delivered randomly over the hand area of either the left or right motor cortex and the modulation of the excitability of the corticospinal motor pathways was measured bilaterally through changes of the size of the motor-evoked potential (MEP) induced in the relaxed right and left first dorsal interosseous (FDI) muscles. We found that the size of the MEP in hand muscles increased during visual searching/matching tasks, particularly when targets were letters or geometric shapes, and the increase was significant for the dominant hand (left hemisphere) only. No such consistent effects were seen across subjects during imaginal tasks. This study provides evidence that even the performance of certain low-level linguistic tasks can modulate the excitability of the corticospinal motor pathways, particularly those originating from the left (dominant) hemisphere, despite the absence of overt motor activity. Moreover, in the light of the recently increased awareness of the role of &quot;mirror neurons&quot; in perception, the results suggest that activation of motor circuits used in generation of the written output may be an essential part of the perception of the written material as well. Understanding the patterns of task-dependent changes in excitability of the corticospinal motor pathways will provide insights into the organisation of central nervous system functional networks involved in linguistic processes, and may also be useful for future development of novel approaches to rehabilitation therapy of linguistic and motor functions.
Perception of our own bodies is based on integration of visual and tactile inputs, notably by neurons in the brain's parietal lobes. Here we report a behavioural consequence of this integration process. Simply viewing the arm can speed up reactions to an invisible tactile stimulus on the arm. We observed this visual enhancement effect only when a tactile task required spatial computation within a topographic map of the body surface and the judgements made were close to the limits of performance. This effect of viewing the body surface was absent or reversed in tasks that either did not require a spatial computation or in which judgements were well above performance limits. We consider possible mechanisms by which vision may influence tactile processing.
ZO-2 is a membrane-associated guanylate kinase (MAGUK) protein present at the tight junction (TJ) of epithelial cells. While confluent monolayers have ZO-2 at their cellular borders, sparse cultures conspicuously show ZO-2 at the nuclei. To study the role of nuclear ZO-2, we tested by pull-down assays and gel shift analysis the interaction between ZO-2 GST fusion proteins and different transcription factors. We identified the existence of a specific interaction of ZO-2 with Fos, Jun and C/EBP (CCAAT/enhancer binding protein). To analyze if this association is present &quot;in vivo&quot;, we performed immunoprecipitation and immunolocalization experiments, which revealed an interaction of ZO-2 with Jun, Fos and C/EBP not only at the nucleus but also at the TJ region. To test if the association of ZO-2 with AP-1 (activator protein-1) modulates gene transcription, we performed reporter gene assays employing chloramphenicol acetyltransferase (CAT) constructs with promoters under the control of AP-1 sites. We observed that the co-transfected ZO-2 down-regulates CAT expression in a dose-dependent manner. Since ZO-2 is a multidomain protein, we proceeded to determine which region of the molecule is responsible for the modulation of gene expression, and observed that both the amino and the carboxyl domains are capable of inhibiting gene transcription.
The alpha2-adrenoceptor antagonist, dexefaroxan, has been shown in the rat to have neuroprotective and plastic effects against degenerative structural changes in elements of the basalocortical cholinergic system that result from cortical devascularization [Neuroscience 115 (2002) 41]. The present study, using the same experimental protocol, examined the functional consequences of cortical devascularization and dexefaroxan treatment in the Morris water maze memory test. Rats were first trained to find the hidden platform in the test, and then subjected to the devascularization procedure. Thirty-one days later, lesioned rats exhibited a significant deficit in recalling the platform location, compared with sham control animals. A 28-day subcutaneous infusion with dexefaroxan (0.63, 2.5, and 10 mg rat(-1) day(-1)), starting from the moment of the devascularization, protected against this spatial memory deficit.
Tenecteplase (TNK) was engineered to have increased fibrin specificity and an increased half-life compared to Alteplase. Although Tenecteplase is currently being tested in a Phase II clinical trial in acute ischemic stroke patients, little is known about the pharmacology and dose-response or therapeutic window for Tenecteplase in embolic stroke models. In the present study, we compared Tenecteplase with Alteplase on behavioral outcome in rabbits with embolic strokes. Male New Zealand white rabbits were embolized by injecting a suspension of small blood clots into the middle cerebral artery (MCA) via a catheter. The rabbit small clot embolic stroke model (RSCEM) was used for a dose-response profile analysis of Tenecteplase (0.1 mg/kg-3.3 mg/kg) and Alteplase (0.9 mg/kg-3.3 mg/kg) given intravenously 1 h following embolization. In additional studies, Tenecteplase (0.9 mg/kg) or Alteplase (3.3 mg/kg) was administered 3 (or 6) h following embolization to determine the therapeutic window for the thrombolytics. For both studies, behavioral analysis was conducted 24 h following embolization, allowing for the determination of the effective stroke dose (P50) or clot amount (mg) that produces neurological deficits in 50% of the rabbits. Using the RSCEM, a drug is considered beneficial if it significantly increases the P50 compared with the control group. The P50 of controls 24 h after embolization was 1.13 +/- 0.15 mg. Rabbits treated 1 h post-embolization with Tenecteplase (0.1, 0.25, 0.9, 1.5 or 3.3 mg/kg) had P50 values of 1.48 +/- 0.33, 2.20 +/- 0.44, 2.76 +/- 0.37, 2.15 +/- 0.29 and 2.78 +/- 0.31 mg, respectively. In Alteplase-treated rabbits, only the 3.3 mg/kg dose significantly increased the group P50 by 189% compared to control. Tenecteplase was also effective at increasing the P50 value to 2.21 +/- 0.43 mg if there was a 3-h delay following embolization, but not if there was a 6-h delay before administration. Alteplase was only effective if administered 1 h following embolization where it significantly increased the P50 value to 3.27 +/- 0.40 mg. This study indicates that Tenecteplase has a wide therapeutic range, a therapeutic window of at least 3 h and a durable effect. Moreover, the safety profile for Tenecteplase is similar to that of Alteplase. Tenecteplase does not increase the rate of intracerebral hemorrhage (ICH) above that produced by Alteplase. However, the therapeutic range and window for Alteplase is more limited than that for Tenecteplase. Our preclinical studies suggest that Tenecteplase has a better pharmacological profile than Alteplase and supports further investigation of Tenecteplase in randomized double-blinded clinical trials in stroke patients.
Spinal ischemia is a frequent cause of paralysis. Here we explore the biological basis of ischemic preconditioning (IPC), the phenomenon in which a brief period of ischemia can confer protection against subsequent longer and normally injurious ischemia, to identify mediators of endogenous neuroprotection. Using microarrays, we examined gene expression changes induced by brief spinal ischemia using a rat balloon occlusion model. Among the nearly 5000 genes assayed, relatively few showed two-fold changes, and three groups stood out prominently. The first group codes for heat shock protein 70, which is induced selectively and robustly at 30 min after brief ischemia, with increases up to 100-fold. A second group encodes metallothioneins 1 and 2. These mRNAs are increased at 6 and 12 h after ischemia, up to 12-fold. The third group codes for a group of immediate-early genes not previously associated with spinal ischemia: B-cell translocation gene 2 (BTG2), the transcription factors early growth response 1 (egr-1) and nerve growth factor inducible B (NGFI-B), and a mitogen-activated protein kinase phosphatase, ptpn16, an important cell signaling regulator. These mRNAs peak at 30 min and return to baseline or are decreased 6 h after ischemia. Several other potentially protective genes cluster with these induced mRNAs, including small heat shock proteins, and many have not been previously associated with IPC. These results provide both putative mediators of IPC and molecular targets for testing preconditioning therapies.
Ciliary neurotrophic factor (CNTF) has been shown to prevent behavioral deficits and striatal degeneration in neurotoxic models of Huntington's disease (HD), but its effect in a genetic model has not been evaluated. Lentiviral vectors expressing the human CNTF or LacZ reporter gene were therefore injected in the striatum of wild-type (WT) and transgenic mice expressing full-length huntingtin with 72 CAG repeats (YAC72). Behavioral analysis showed increased locomotor activity in 5- to 6-month-old YAC72-LacZ mice compared to WT-LacZ animals. Interestingly, CNTF expression reduced the activity levels of YAC72 mice compared to control animals. In both WT and YAC72 mice, CNTF expression was demonstrated in striatal punches, up to a year after lentiviral injection. Stereological analysis revealed that the number of LacZ and DARPP-32-positive neurons were decreased in YAC72-LacZ mice compared to WT-LacZ animals. Assessment of the benefit of CNTF expression in the YAC72 mice was, however, complicated by a down-regulation of DARPP-32 and to a lesser extent of NeuN in all mice treated with CNTF. The expression of the neuronal marker NADPH-d was unaffected by CNTF, but expression of the astrocytic marker glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) was increased. Finally, a reduction of the number of striatal dark cells was observed in YAC mice treated with CNTF compared to LacZ. These data indicate that sustained striatal expression of CNTF can be achieved with lentiviruses. Further studies are, however, needed to investigate the intracellular signaling pathways mediating the long-term effects of CNTF expression on dopamine signaling, glial cell activation and how these changes may affect HD pathology.
The poor regenerative capacity of the spiral ganglion neurons of the mammalian inner ear has initiated research on how to assist the functional recovery of the injured auditory system. A possible treatment is to use a biological implant with a potential to establish central or peripheral synaptic contacts to develop into a functional auditory unit. The feasibility of this approach was tested by xenograft implantation of dorsal root ganglion (DRG) neurons from embryonic days 13 to 14, mouse expressing either LacZ or enhanced green fluorescent protein (EGFP) into the scala tympani of the adult rat inner ear. Transplanted DRG neurons survived in the scala tympani for a postoperative period ranging from 3 to 10 weeks, as verified by histochemical detection of LacZ, EGFP fluorescence and immunohistochemical labeling of the neuronal markers neurofilament and Thy 1.2. DRG neurons were found close to structures near the sensory epithelium (the organ of Corti) as well as adjacent to the spiral ganglion neurons with their peripheral dendrites. These results illustrate not only the survival of xenografted DRG neurons in the adult inner ear but also the feasibility of a neuronal transplantation strategy in the degenerated auditory system, thereby creating possibilities to replace spiral ganglion neurons.
The pivotal role of nerve growth factor in inducing hyperalgesia and central sensitization has been emphasized in experimental pain models. Higher nerve growth factor levels have recently been found in the cerebrospinal fluid of patients with chronic daily headache. These levels were significantly correlated with the cerebrospinal fluid levels of substance P and calcitonin gene-related peptide, supporting the involvement of this neurotrophin in enhancing the production of the two sensory neuropeptides of the trigemino-vascular system in chronic daily headache. This may, in part, account for the long-lasting sensitization and activation of this system, which could contribute to headache chronicity. More recent research has shown a significant correlation between the higher cerebrospinal fluid levels of nerve growth factor and those of another neurotrophin, the brain-derived neurotrophic factor, as well as glutamate in chronic daily headache patients. These findings suggest the potential involvement of nerve growth factor-mediated upregulation of brain-derived neurotrophic factor in persistent head pain. Therefore, nerve growth factor appears to indirectly exert its effect through enhancing glutamatergic transmission involved in the processing of head pain via brain-derived neurotrophic factor. Based on these data, a potential application can be hypothesized for novel strategies targeting neurotrophins (nerve growth factor and brain-derived neurotrophic factor) and their receptors to chronic daily headache. To date, the majority of the molecules discovered in this regard have been scarcely or never proved in animal pain models and are far from clinical use in chronic pain, including chronic daily headache. If this approach is to be developed in the near future, research should be focused on identifying strategies with few central side effects and specific selective action on central sites involved in chronic head pain and more generally in chronic pain conditions. This will represent a very difficult challenge, taking into account the pleiotropic effect of nerve growth factor and the wide range of intracellular signalling pathways activated by this neurotrophin which are not limited to the nociceptive system.

Hereditary nonpolyposis colorectal cancer (HNPCC) is widely considered to be a syndrome of defective mismatch repair (MMR). A major concern with genetic diagnosis of HNPCC is the variable, often low, percentage of pathogenic germline mutations that can be detected in MMR genes using common screening methods. The variable percentage of mutation detected is in part related to the sensitivity of conventional screening methods and may also depend on the heterogeneous genetics of HNPCC. Thus, identification of phenotypic criteria predictive of germline mutations in MMR genes may be helpful in efficient HNPCC genetic testing. Clinical diagnostic criteria, initially developed for HNPCC (e.g., Amsterdam I and II, or Bethesda criteria), can be used to clinically select patient candidates that carry germline mutations in MMR genes. More useful criteria were previously developed by analyzing families with germline MMR mutations. Using a complementary approach based on tumor microsatellite instability analysis, we confirm that the Amsterdam criteria are significantly better than the Bethesda criteria in predicting families with MSI-H tumors (P = 0.0227). Our results also suggest that a cutoff at &lt; 50 years' mean age at diagnosis of HNPCC-related cancers (especially colorectal and endometrial cancer) may be an additional tool for the identification of families with defective MMR. Recent advances in MMR mutation screening are expected to improve detection of pathogenic MMR mutations in these families. Conversely, the high proportion of MSS tumors observed in our series of families with advanced age at cancer diagnosis is consistent with the low percentage of MMR mutations detected by previous studies in families with this phenotype. These families probably carry mutations in other genes that may or may not be related to MMR. Additional studies are necessary to clarify the molecular basis for HNPCC in families with MSS tumors.
Long-term drug-induced alterations in neurotransmission within the nucleus accumbens (NAc) shell and core may underlie relapse to drug-seeking behavior and drug-taking upon re-exposure to drugs and drug-associated stimuli (cues) during abstinence. Using an open screening strategy, we recently identified 25 gene transcripts, encoding for proteins involved in neuronal functioning and structure that are down-regulated in rat NAc shell after contingent (active), but not after non-contingent (passive), heroin administration. Studying the expression of the same transcripts in the NAc core by means of quantitative PCR, we now demonstrate that most of these transcripts are up-regulated in that NAc subregion long (3 weeks) after heroin self-administration in rats. A similar up-regulation in gene expression was also apparent in the NAc core of animals with a history of non-contingent heroin administration (yoked controls). These data indicate that heroin self-administration differentially regulates genes in the NAc core as compared with the shell. Moreover, whereas cognitive processes involved in active drug self-administration (e.g., instrumental learning) seems to direct gene expression in the NAc shell, neuroplasticity in the NAc core may be due to the pharmacological effects of heroin (including Pavlovian conditioning), as expressed in rats upon contingent as well as non-contingent administration of heroin.
Axonal injury and neuronal loss are now recognised to be hallmarks of multiple sclerosis (MS) in addition to neuroinflammation and demyelination. This review discusses the factors that contribute to neural degeneration, and it emphasizes the need to confer neuroprotection in MS. The beneficial role of neuroinflammation is highlighted, and the possibility that glatiramer acetate enables neuroprotection in MS through beneficial inflammation is evaluated. Finally, the prospect of an experimental treatment, minocycline, in producing neuroprotection in MS is suggested.
Health evaluations after trauma are often performed by postal surveys, although previous studies show that some participants experience distress reactions afterwards. The aim was to explore how former burn patients react to filling in a trauma-related survey and whether the reactions are related to individual factors. The survey contained 307 questions, of which one was an open question to elicit reactions to participation. Personality was measured with the Swedish universities Scales of Personality, health with the Burn Specific Health Scale-Brief, and psychological health with the Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale and Impact of Event Scale-Revised. Participants were 78 (67%) adult burn patients, injured on average 3.9 years previously. Three groups of reactions were identified: positive/beneficial (55%), effort/time-consuming (32%), and negative/intrusive (13%). Only four participants expressed that the survey had been intrusive. Negative reactions were associated with maladaptive personality traits, poorer relationships, and more stress symptomatology, but not with burn severity or sociodemographic variables. Patients with self-inflicted injuries were evenly spread across the groups, but those with negative reactions were responsible for most of the group differences in individual factors. While a small subgroup reacted negatively, the majority accepted the trauma-focused survey and even found it beneficial.
The pufferfish skeleton lacks ribs and pelvic fins, and has fused bones in the cranium and jaw. It has been hypothesized that this secondarily simplified pufferfish morphology is due to reduced complexity of the pufferfish Hox complexes. To test this hypothesis, we determined the genomic structure of Hox clusters in the Southern pufferfish Spheroides nephelus and interrogated genomic databases for the Japanese pufferfish Takifugu rubripes (fugu). Both species have at least seven Hox clusters, including two copies of Hoxb and Hoxd clusters, a single Hoxc cluster, and at least two Hoxa clusters, with a portion of a third Hoxa cluster in fugu. Results support genome duplication before divergence of zebrafish and pufferfish lineages, followed by loss of a Hoxc cluster in the pufferfish lineage and loss of a Hoxd cluster in the zebrafish lineage. Comparative analysis shows that duplicate genes continued to be lost for hundreds of millions of years, contrary to predictions for the permanent preservation of gene duplicates. Gene expression analysis in fugu embryos by in situ hybridization revealed evolutionary change in gene expression as predicted by the duplication-degeneration-complementation model. These experiments rule out the hypothesis that the simplified pufferfish body plan is due to reduction in Hox cluster complexity, and support the notion that genome duplication contributed to the radiation of teleosts into half of all vertebrate species by increasing developmental diversification of duplicate genes in daughter lineages.
Histamine N-methyltransferase (HNMT), a cytosolic histamine-metabolizing enzyme, is the only known product of the 50-kb human HNMT. Here, a detailed investigation of HNMT products revealed the existence of a new brain mRNA product of HNMT. This species, named HNMT-Short (HNMT-S), encodes a 126-amino-acid protein. Northern blot analysis detected HNMT-S mRNA (1.0 kb) in placenta, but not in several other human tissues. In addition, unlike the known HNMT cDNA, HNMT-S cDNA did not result in histamine-methylating activity after transfection into COS-7 cells. These studies show that HNMT-S is a new mRNA species and putative protein product from HNMT. The physiological role of HNMT-S remains to be investigated.
Normal somatic cells have a finite replicative capacity. With each cell division, telomeres shorten progressively until they reach a critical length, at which point the cells enter replicative senescence. Some cells maintain their telomeres by the action of the telomerase enzyme. Glia, particularly microglia, are the only adult cell types in the central nervous system (CNS) that exhibit a significant mitotic potential, and are thus susceptible to telomere shortening. In this study, we show that telomere shortening accompanied by low to moderate telomerase activity, and ultimately senescence, occurs in rat microglia in vitro. When microglia are stimulated to divide with the mitogen granulocyte macrophage-colony stimulating factor (GM-CSF), longer telomeres are allowed to shorten, while shorter telomeres are lengthened. Telomerase activity is nearly 3-fold higher in GM-CSF-stimulated microglia initially, relative to unstimulated controls, and then declines to levels below those seen in controls before increasing again. Telomere attrition is also more rapid when microglia are grown in culture dishes of increasing size. Fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) analysis indicates that a nearly 3-fold variation in both inter- and intra-chromosomal telomere length exists in microglia. In contrast to microglia, cultured astrocytes exhibit a cyclical pattern of telomere lengthening and shortening over time, corresponding to a similar cycle of higher and lower telomerase activity. When astrocytes are passaged, mean telomere length increases initially from passage 1-2, remaining constant until passage 5, while the shortest telomeres are continually lengthened. In conclusion, the telomere shortening evident in microglia is accompanied by their progression to senescence by 32 days in vitro. In contrast, astrocytes, perhaps due to greater telomerase activity, have longer life spans and may be passaged repeatedly before entering senescence. Our findings provide an impetus to investigate the possibility that microglial telomere shortening may occur in vivo.
Recent results from multiple laboratories have identified Olig genes as important in regulating glial differentiation. Here we show that Olig2 expression at early stages of development (prior to E16.5) identifies a domain in the developing spinal cord, which contains a heterogeneous population of progenitors that includes stem cells and glial progenitors. We show that Nkx2.2 and Olig2, which are present initially in nonoverlapping domains, are coexpressed at later stages, likely due to a second wave of Olig expression. We find that Olig1, like Olig2, is present in cells that coexpress astrocytic and radial glial markers and that Olig1/2 double knockouts lead to a loss of oligodendrocytes with preservation of NG2 expression. These results coupled with previously published data indicate that Olig1/2 and Nkx2.2, while clearly important in regulating early progenitor cell differentiation, do not unambiguously demonstrate the existence of an oligodendrocyte-neuron precursor or negate the existing retroviral lineage and clonal analysis data that suggest the existence of other types of precursors such as oligodendrocyte-astrocyte precursors or neuronal precursors.
We have demonstrated that myelination of dorsal root ganglion (DRG) axons occurs in a fully defined, serum-free medium (B27). This implies that there may be components in B27 medium that support myelination. To determine which of the components in B27 were essential for myelination, we systematically removed components from B27 until myelination was lost. We added these components to a fully defined minimal medium (N2) that supports neuron survival but not myelination. When antioxidants were removed from B27, myelination was lost. However, the individual antioxidants did not induce myelination when added to N2 medium. Addition of ascorbic acid along with the B27 antioxidants was sufficient to induce myelination in N2 medium, which was enhanced by retinyl acetate. Removal of vitamin E from B27 caused a partial loss of myelination, and addition of vitamin E to N2 medium containing ascorbic acid induced partial myelination. Addition of serum to the B27 myelinating medium inhibited myelination completely. These results indicate that antioxidants are important for myelination, in vitro. Vitamin E may play an important role. Use of a serum-free medium may be beneficial for in vitro myelination studies because serum has unknown inhibitory effects.
Lysophosphatidic acid (LPA) and sphingosine-1-phosphate (S1P) have been proposed to play a key role in oligodendrocyte maturation and myelinogenesis. In this study, we examined lysophospholipid receptor gene expression in differentiated rat oligodendrocyte cultures and signaling downstream of lysophospholipid receptor activation by LPA and S1P. Differentiated oligodendrocytes express mRNAs encoding lysophospholipid receptors with the relative abundance of lpa1&gt;s1p5&gt;s1p1=s1p2=lpa3&gt;s1p3. LPA and S1P transiently increased phosphorylation of extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK) with EC50 values of 956 and 168 nM, respectively. LPA- and S1P-induced ERK phosphorylation was dependent on the activation of mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK), phospholipase C (PLC), and protein kinase C (PKC), but was insensitive to pertussis toxin (PTX). LPA increased intracellular calcium levels in oligodendrocytes and these increases were partially blocked by a PLC inhibitor but not by PTX. In contrast, S1P was not found to induce measurable changes of intracellular calcium. These results taken together suggest that lysophospholipid receptor activation involves receptor coupling to heterotrimeric Gq subunits with consequent activation of PLC, PKC, and MAPK pathways leading to ERK phosphorylation.
Our previous study showed an impaired regulation of Ca(2+) homeostasis in cultured cerebellar granule neurons (CGN) from neonatal mice lacking GM2, GD2 and all gangliotetraose gangliosides, due to disruption of the GM2/GD2 synthase (GalNAc-T) gene. In the presence of depolarizing concentration (55 mM) K(+), these cells showed persistent elevation of intracellular Ca(2+) ([Ca(2+)]( i )) leading to apoptosis and cell destruction. This was in contrast to CGN from normal littermates whose survival was enhanced by high K(+). In this study we demonstrate that glutamate has the same effect as K(+) on CGN from these ganglioside-deficient knockout (KO) mice and that apoptosis in both cases is averted by exogenous GM1. Even more effective rescue was obtained with LIGA20, a semi-synthetic derivative of GM1. LC(50) of glutamate in the KO cells was 3.1 microM, compared to 46 microM in normal CGN. [Ca(2+)]( i ) measurement with fura-2 revealed no difference in glutamate-stimulated Ca(2+) influx between the 2 cell types. However, reduction of [Ca(2+)]( i ) following application of Mg(2+) was significantly impaired in the mutant CGN. The rescuing effects of exogenous GM1 and LIGA20 corresponded to their ability to restore Ca(2+) homeostasis. The greater potency of LIGA20 is attributed to its greater membrane permeability with resultant ability to insert into both plasma and nuclear membranes at low concentration (&lt;/=1 microM); GM1 at the same concentration was incorporated only into the plasma membrane and required much higher concentration to influence Ca(2+) homeostasis and CGN viability.
Alzheimer's beta-secretase (BACE1) is a membrane-bound protease that cleaves the amyloid precursor protein (APP) in the trans-Golgi network, an initial step in the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease. Although BACE1 is distributed among various tissues including brain, its physiological substrate other than APP have not been identified. We have recently found that when BACE1 was overexpressed in COS cells together with alpha2,6-sialyltransferase (ST6Gal I), the secretion of ST6Gal I markedly increased, suggesting that BACE1 cleaves ST6Gal I as a physiological substrate. Thus BACE1 is the first identified protease that is responsible for the cleavage and secretion of glycosyltransferases.
Galectins and their ligands have been implicated in cell transformation and cancer metastasis, and found to have prognostic value. Mac-2 BP, also known as 90K, is a highly glycosylated, secreted protein extensively studied in human cancer, which binds galectin-1, galectin-3 and galectin-7. High expression levels of 90K are associated with a shorter survival, the occurrence of metastasis or a reduced response to chemotherapy in patients with different types of malignancy. The mechanisms underlying the prognostic significance of 90K and galectins in cancer are far from being understood, although they may be related to the ability of these proteins to interact and, to some extent, modulate cell-cell and cell-matrix adhesion and apoptosis. The resulting scenario is even more complex, as data have been presented that all these proteins might be associated with either a positive or a negative outcome of the patients. It is hypothesised that different galectins and galectin ligands with overlapping or opposite functions, expressed in different tumors during the different steps of the metastatic cascade might play a crucial role in tumor progression.
Cell adhesion molecules of the immunoglobulin superfamily (IgSF CAMs) were discovered 25 years ago based on their role in cell-cell adhesion. Ever since, they have played a major role in developmental neuroscience research. The elucidation of IgSF CAM structure and function has been tightly linked to the establishment of new areas of research. Over the years, our view of the role of the IgSF CAMs has changed. First, they were thought to provide &quot;specific glue&quot; segregating subtypes of cells in the nervous system. Soon it became clear that IgSF CAMs can do much more. The focus shifted from simple adhesion to CAM-associated signaling that was shown to be involved in the promotion of axon growth and the regulation of cell migration. From there it was a small step to axon guidance, a field that has been given a lot of attention during the last decade. More recently, the involvement of IgSF CAMs in synapse formation and maturation has been discovered, although this last step in the formation of neural circuits was thought to be the domain of other families of cell adhesion molecules, such as the neuroligins, the neurexins, and the cadherins. Certainly, the most striking discovery in the context of IgSF CAMs has been the diversity of signaling mechanisms that are associated with them. The versatility of signals and their complexity make IgSF CAMs a perfect tool for brain development.
Risk for suicide may have heritable contributions. Evidence supporting this hypothesis includes strong and consistent findings from more than 20 controlled family studies indicating nearly 5-fold greater relative risk of suicidal acts among relatives of index cases with suicidal behavior compared to relatives of nonsuicidal controls. Relative risk was greater for completed suicide than for attempts. Contributions of genetic instead of environmental factors are indicated by a higher average concordance for suicidal behavior among co-twins of suicidal identical twins compared to fraternal twins or to relatives of other suicidal subjects, in at least seven studies. Three studies indicate significantly greater suicidal risk, particularly for completed suicide, among biological versus adoptive relatives of suicidal or mentally ill persons adopted early in life. Molecular genetics studies have searched inconclusively for associations of suicidal behavior with genes mainly for proteins required for central serotonergic neurotransmission. Complex interactions of environmental with heritable risk and protective factors for suicide and psychiatric illnesses or vulnerability traits are suspected, but specific intervening mechanisms remain elusive. Familial or genetic risks for psychiatric factors strongly associated with suicide, such as major affective illnesses and alcohol abuse, as well as impulsive or aggressive traits, have not consistently been separated from suicidal risk itself.

This paper puts forward important concepts related to the diagnosis and treatment of individuals with mental illness and the workplace. These include the need to take an integrated bio-psycho-social approach, an emphasis on functional outcomes, the need to improve the current fragmentation of occupational mental health services, the benefits of identifying individuals at risk of developing mental health problems, the difficulties in disseminating educational information, and the impact of the relationship between workplace and family factors.

Methionine-enkephalin-Arg(6)-Gly(7)-Leu(8) (Met(8)) is known to act as a neurotransmitter or neuromodulator and it has been implicated in pain, cardiovascular and motor mechanisms, but its role in audition is currently unknown. In the present study we have applied an immunocytochemical technique and describe the distribution of cell bodies and fibers containing Met(8) in the auditory pathway of the rat. The main finding is that we found either Met(8)-immunoreactive fibers or cell bodies or both in virtually all nuclei of the rat auditory system except for the medial superior olive and the ventral division of the medial geniculate body in which we did not find any immunoreactivity for Met(8). This suggests that the neuropeptide Met(8) is widely distributed throughout the auditory system of the rat. Our results suggest that Met(8) could play at least two roles in hearing. It seems to be involved in the processing of the descending auditory pathway, and it may be implicated in the multisensory integration of auditory information that takes place in the non-lemniscal auditory pathway.
The entorhinal cortex has long been recognized as an important interface between the hippocampal formation and the neocortex. The notion of bidirectional connections between the entorhinal cortex and the hippocampal formation have led to the suggestion that hippocampal output originating in CA1 and subiculum may reenter hippocampal subfields via the entorhinal cortex. To investigate this, we used simultaneous multi-site field potential recordings and current source density analysis in the entorhinal cortex and hippocampal formation of the rat in vivo. Under ketamine/xylazine anesthesia, we found that repetitive stimulation of subiculum or Schaffer collaterals facilitated entorhinal responses, such that a population spike appeared in layer III. In addition, a current sink in stratum lacunosum-moleculare of area CA1 was found, that followed responses in the entorhinal cortex, indicating reentrance into this area. Responses indicating reentrance in the dentate gyrus were not found under ketamine/xylazine anesthesia, but were readily evoked under urethane anesthesia. Reentrance into CA1 was also encountered under urethane anesthesia. These results suggest that parallel, but possibly functionally distinct, connections are present between the output of the hippocampal formation and cells in layers III and II of the entorhinal cortex that project to area CA1 and the dentate gyrus, respectively.
Growing evidence indicates that the amygdala modulates hippocampal functions. To test the hypothesis that this modulation may involve long-lasting effects on interneuronal networks in the hippocampus, changes in the expression of neurochemical markers specific for different interneuronal subpopulations were assessed in adult rats 96 h following acute infusion of low doses of the GABAA receptor antagonist picrotoxin into the amygdala. The numerical density (Nd) of somata showing immunoreactivity (IR) for parvalbumin (PVB) was decreased in dentate gyrus (DG) and the CA4-2 region, while that of calretinin (CR)-IR was decreased in DG and CA2. The Nd of calbindin D28k (CB)-IR somata was decreased in CA3-2. The densities of axon terminals arising from PVB-IR and cholecystokinin (CCK)-IR basket neurons were also altered, with those of CCK-IR terminals increased across all sectors, while PVB-IR terminals were decreased only in the CA region. Increases in CCK-IR terminals were paralleled by increases of terminals with IR for the 65-kD isoform of glutamate decarboxylase (GAD65). Mixed-effects statistical models, adapted specifically for these analyses, indicated that perturbations of amygdalar inputs to the hippocampus significantly alter the drive that hippocampal PVB-, CR-, and CB-IR neurons within the dentate gyrus/CA4 region exercise on CCK-IR terminals within the same region as well as in CA3-1. These results suggest that amygdalar modulation of specific neuronal subpopulations may induce lasting and far-reaching changes in the hippocampus during normal functioning, as well as in diseases involving a disruption of amygdalar activity. In particular, changes in specific interneuronal markers within selective hippocampal sectors detected in the present results are strikingly similar to those reported in this region in schizophrenia. These similarities suggest that, in this disease, a disruption of GABAergic transmission within the amygdala may play a significant role in the induction of abnormalities in the hippocampus.
In the adult hippocampus, neurogenesis proceeds in the subgranular zone (SGZ) of the dentate gyrus (DG), but not in the cornu Ammonis (CA). Recently, we demonstrated in monkeys that transient brain ischemia induces an increase of the neuronal progenitor cells in the SGZ, but not in CA1, in the second week after the insult. To identify the origin of primary neuronal progenitors in vivo, we compared the postischemic monkey DG and CA1, using light and electron microscopy, focusing on specific phenotype markers, as well as the expression of neurotrophic factors. Laser confocal microscopy showed that 1-3% of 5-bromo-2'-deoxyuridine (BrdU)-positive cells in the SGZ after 2-96 h labeling were also positive for neuronal markers such as TUC4, betaIII tubulin, and NeuN on days 9 and 15. In contrast, despite the presence of numerous BrdU-positive cells, CA1 showed no neurogenesis at any time points, and all the progenitors were positive for glial markers: Iba1 or S-100beta on days 4, 9, and 15. Highly polysialylated neural cell adhesion molecule (PSA-NCAM)-positive cells were abundant in the SGZ, but were absent in CA1. On day 9, most of the immature neurons positive for betaIII-tubulin in SGZ showed an increase in PSA-NCAM immunoreactivity. The immunoreactivity of brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) was abundant at the vascular adventitia of the SGZ, but was absent at the adventitia of CA1. BrdU-positive progenitor cells were frequently seen in the vicinity of proliferating blood vessels. Ultrastructural analysis indicated that most of the neuronal progenitor cells and microglia originated from the pericytes of capillaries and/or adventitial cells of arterioles (called vascular adventitia). The detaching adventitial cells showed mitotic figures in the perivascular space, and the resultant neuronal progenitor cells made contact with dendritic spines associated with synaptic vesicles or boutons. These data implicate the vascular adventitia as a novel potential source of neuronal progenitor cells in the postischemic primate SGZ.
We have previously shown that rule learning of an olfactory discrimination task is accompanied by increased spine density along the apical dendrites of piriform cortex pyramidal neurons. The purpose of the present study was to examine whether such olfactory learning task, in which the hippocampus is actively involved, induces morphological modifications in CA1 pyramidal neurons as well. Rats were trained to discriminate positive cues in pairs of odors for a water reward. Morphological modifications were studied in Golgi-impregnated neurons with light microscopy, 1 and 3 days after training completion. Spine densities were measured on the proximal region of apical dendrites and on basal dendrites after rule learning. Three days after training completion, the mean spine density on apical dendrites in neurons from trained rats was significantly higher by 20.5% than in neurons from pseudo-trained and naive animals, which did not differ from each other. By contrast, there was no significant difference in spine density of basal dendrites among the three groups. As length and diameter of spiny dendritic segments did not change after learning, the learning-related increase in spine density in neurons from trained rats may reflect a net increase in the number of excitatory synapses in the hippocampus following olfactory rule learning.
The present study evaluated the effects of a single intrahippocampal administration of brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) on memory retention in a water maze. Adult rats were trained in a water maze (acquisition phase, day 1). Immediately after the last training trial subjects were injected in the right hippocampus with either BDNF (24 microg) or phosphate-buffered saline (1 microl). On day 2, all subjects were tested for memory retention in a probe trial and were subsequently tested for reversal learning. While no differences emerged in the probe trial, BDNF-treated subjects showed a shorter latency and a shorter path length to reach the platform during the reversal phase. A significant difference in their &quot;turn angle&quot; and in their swim paths suggests that they might have used a different search strategy compared with controls. Moreover, all subjects also underwent an elevated-plus maze test. BDNF-treated-animals showed a clear tendency to spend a greater amount of time in the open arms and a significantly higher frequency of grooming behavior and of the stretched-attend posture in this maze area, but no differences in locomotion. Overall, these results indicate that administration of BDNF improves performance in a spatial memory task and has enduring effects on emotional behavior.
We analyzed the distribution of nonphosphorylated high-molecular-weight neurofilaments (NF-H) in the hippocampal formation of infant (3-week-old and 3-month-old) and adult (9-17-year-old) macaque monkeys in order to obtain neuroanatomical evidence of the maturity of these structures shortly after birth. We employed the monoclonal antibody SMI-32, a well-characterized antibody raised against nonphosphorylated NF-H, the expression of which is believed to reflect the maturation of certain neuronal populations. Patterns of SMI-32 immunoreactivity differed dramatically between infant and adult monkeys. In adults, nonphosphorylated NF-H expression was prominent in the CA3 and CA2 fields of the hippocampus, in the subiculum and in the entorhinal cortex. In infants, only the subiculum stained heavily for nonphosphorylated NF-H. These findings suggest that different subregions of the primate hippocampal formation mature at different times during development. The subiculum, the major source of efferent projections from the hippocampal formation toward subcortical structures, matures early during development. In contrast, the entorhinal cortex, the main interface of the hippocampal formation with the neocortex, matures relatively later. These findings have direct implications for the type of information processing that might be subserved by the primate hippocampal formation shortly after birth, as well as for the emergence of particular behavioral and memory processes during postnatal development.
There is increasing evidence that transcription factors (TFs) play a critical role in maintaining later phases of hippocampal long-term potentiation (LTP). We have been led to study the role in synaptic plasticity of the powerful, yet generally unheralded, NF-kappaB TF because it may serve as both a signaling molecule after its activation at the synapse and then a transcription initiator upon reaching the nucleus. In the present study, we show that LTP activates NF-kappaB in the intact mouse hippocampus. Mice were sacrificed 15 min after one of three treatments: tetanization (high-frequency stimulation [HFS]), low-frequency stimulation (LFS), or no stimulated control animals (CT). In a first study, nuclear NF-kappaB activity from hippocampus was estimated by electrophoretic mobility shift assays (EMSAs). A higher level of hippocampal TF binding to the NF-kappaB recognition element was found in the HFS group compared with LFS or CT. In a second study, NF-kappaB activity was evaluated by immunohistochemistry with a specific antibody that recognizes the activated form of NF-kappaB. This antibody binds to the exposed nuclear location sequence on the p65 subunit of NF-kappaB consequent to its dissociation from the inhibitory IkappaB molecule. In the four subfields of hippocampus examined--granule cell layer, hilus of the dentate gyrus, CA3 and CA1 pyramidal fields of the hippocampal gyrus--the highest levels of activated NF-kappaB, statistically significant in all cases were found after HFS. In certain comparisons, LFS animals also showed significant elevation with respect to CT. These results support the role of NF-kappaB as part of the synaptic signaling and transcriptional regulation mechanism required in long-term plasticity, emphasizing the combinatorial nature of TF function.
Systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) is frequently accompanied by neuropsychiatric (NP) and cognitive deficits of unknown etiology. By using autoimmune MRL-lpr mice as an animal model of NP-SLE, we examine the relationship between autoimmunity, hippocampal damage, and behavioral dysfunction. Fluoro Jade B (FJB) staining and anti-ubiquitin (anti-Ub) immunocytochemistry were used to assess neuronal damage in young (asymptomatic) and aged (diseased) mice, while spontaneous alternation behavior (SAB) was used to estimate the severity of hippocampal dysfunction. The causal relationship between autoimmunity and neuropathology was tested by prolonged administration of the immunosuppressive drug cyclophosphamide (CY). In comparison to congenic MRL +/+ controls, SAB acquisition rates and performance in the &quot;reversal&quot; trial were impaired in diseased MRL-lpr mice, suggesting limited use of the spatial learning strategy. FJB-positive neurons and anti-Ub particles were frequent in the CA3 region. Conversely, CY treatment attenuated the SAB deficit and overall FJB staining. Similarly to mouse brain, the hippocampus from a patient who died from NP-SLE showed reduced neuronal density in the CA3 region and dentate gyrus, as well as increased FJB positivity in these regions. Gliosis and neuronal loss were observed in the gray matter, and T lymphocytes and stromal calcifications were common in the choroid plexus. Taken together, these results suggest that systemic autoimmunity induces significant hippocampal damage, which may underlie affective and cognitive deficits in NP-SLE.
The differentiation between the CA3 and CA1 fields of the mammalian hippocampus is one of the salient traits that set it apart from the organization of the homologue medial wall in reptiles and birds. CA3 is widely thought to function as an autoassociator, but what do we need CA1 for? Based on evidence for a specific role of CA1 in temporal processing, I have explored the hypothesis that the differentiation between CA3 and CA1 may help solve a computational conflict. The conflict is between pattern completion, or integrating current sensory information on the basis of memory, and prediction, or moving from one pattern to the next in a stored sequence. CA3 would take care of the former, while CA1 would concentrate on the latter. I have found the hypothesis to be only weakly supported by neural network simulations. The conflict indeed exists, but two mechanisms that would relate more directly to a functional CA3-CA1 differentiation were found unable to produce genuine prediction. Instead, a simple mechanism based on firing frequency adaptation in pyramidal cells was found to be sufficient for prediction, with the degree of adaptation as the crucial parameter balancing retrieval with prediction. The differentiation between the architectures of CA3 and CA1 has a minor but significant, and positive, effect on this balance. In particular, for a fixed anticipatory interval in the model, it increases significantly the information content of hippocampal outputs. There may therefore be just a simple quantitative advantage in differentiating the connectivity of the two fields. Moreover, different degrees of adaptation in CA3 and CA1 cells were not found to lead to better performance, further undermining the notion of a functional dissociation.

Transgenic mice are overtaking the role of model animals in neuroscience. They are used in developmental, anatomical, and physiological as well as experimental neurology. However, most results on the organization of the nervous system derive from the rat. The rat hippocampus and its neuronal elements have been thoroughly investigated, revealing remarkable functional and morphological diversity and specificity among hippocampal interneurons. Our aim was to examine the properties of distinct hippocampal interneuron populations, i.e., those immunoreactive for calcium-binding proteins (parvalbumin, calbindin, and calretinin), neuropeptides (cholecystokinin, neuropeptide Y, somatostatin, vasoactive intestinal polypeptide), and certain receptors (metabotropic glutamate receptor 1alpha, cannabinoid receptor type 1) in four strains of mice widely used in transgenic technology, and to compare their properties to those in the rat. Our data indicate that the distribution as well as the dendritic and axonal arborization of mouse interneurons immunoreactive for the different markers was identical in the examined mouse strains, and in most respects are similar to the features found in the rat. The postsynaptic targets of neurons terminating in the perisomatic (parvalbumin), proximal (calbindin), and distal (somatostatin) dendritic region, as well as on other interneurons (calretinin), also matched those found in the rat. However, a few significant differences could also be observed between the two species in addition to the already described immunoreactivity of mossy cells for calretinin: the absence of spiny calretinin-immunoreactive interneurons in the CA3 region, sparse contacts between calretinin-immunoreactive interneurons, and the axon staining for somatostatin and neuropil labeling for cholecystokinin. We can conclude that the morphofunctional classification of interneurons established in the rat is largely valid for mouse strains used in transgenic procedures.
Cholinergic input from the basal forebrain and septum to the hippocampus is well known to be critical in learning and memory. Muscarinic induction of theta-frequency oscillations may synchronize pre- and postsynaptic firing and thereby enhance plasticity in the hippocampus. Previous studies have demonstrated that muscarinic activation facilitates long-term potentiation (LTP) induced with tetanus in vitro. In the present study, we tested the role of muscarinic receptor activity in the induction of LTP beyond effects on spike timing by using a spike-pairing (SP) method at Schaffer collateral-CA1 synapses in rat hippocampal slices. Pairings of pre- and postsynaptic action potentials (APs) have been shown to induce LTP when the presynaptic AP precedes the postsynaptic AP by 5-15 ms, but contribution of muscarinic co-activation has not been ruled out. We demonstrate that the mAChR antagonist atropine abolishes LTP induction by SP. Surprisingly, prolonged exposure to the mAChR agonist carbachol inhibits LTP induction by SP, perhaps because of receptor desensitization. These results demonstrate an essential role of cholinergic signaling in this form of hippocampal plasticity.
Administration of muscarinic cholinergic antagonists such as scopolamine impairs the acquisition of contextual fear conditioning, but the role of the basal forebrain (BF) cholinergic system in consolidation is unclear. To test the hypothesis that BF cholinergic neurons are critical for acquisition and consolidation of fear conditioning, male Sprague-Dawley rats with 192 IgG-saporin lesions of the entire cholinergic BF made either before or after fear conditioning were tested for conditioned fear to context and tone by assessing freezing and 22 kHz ultrasonic vocalization (USV) responses. Spatial learning in a 1-day water maze task provided a comparison for effects of the BF lesions on fear conditioning. In the test phase, neither pre-training nor posttraining BF lesions affected freezing to the context or tone. During both training and testing, pre-lesioned rats were impaired in production of USVs associated with fear. Postlesioned rats emitted fewer USVs only during testing. Acquisition of a spatial water maze task was mildly impaired in lesioned rats, although probe trial and cued performance was unimpaired. Nevertheless, these data suggest that conditioned fear-induced USVs are more sensitive to the loss of BF cholinergic neurons than is conditioned fear-induced freezing. The failure of BF cholinergic lesions to impair contextual fear conditioning indicates that scopolamine-induced impairments in fear conditioning may not be mediated by affecting cholinergic input to the hippocampus and neocortex.
The retrosplenial (RS) cortex (area 29) and the adjacent cingulum bundle (CG) are components of neural circuits that include the hippocampus. Given the evidence suggesting that the hippocampus plays a central role in spatial navigation, several lines of investigation have examined the possible contributions of these structures to spatial navigation. The combined and/or separate contributions of these structures have been difficult to establish because their close proximity usually results in combined injury after lesions and because there have been conflicting results related to lesion type and the strain of rat subjects. The purpose of the present study was to compare the effects of selective CG damage with selective RS damage in Long-Evans rats, a domestic rat strain that displays superior spatial skills, and by using spatial behavior assessment procedures that are sensitive to CG damage. Rats with cytotoxic N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) RS lesions or surgical CG transection were tested on two spatial tasks in the Morris water task; a place learning task, sensitive to nonspatial and spatial behavior, and a matching-to-place task, sensitive to spatial behavior. Both the RS and CG groups were impaired on most measures relative to the control group on both the place task and the matching-to-place task. The results are discussed in relation to the anatomical organization of CG and RG projections to the hippocampus and with respect to their possible separate/conjoint contributions to spatial behavior.
Lesion studies have provided compelling evidence that episodic memory is dependent on the integrity of the medial temporal lobe (MTL). This role of the MTL in episodic memory has been supported by several neuroimaging studies during both episodic encoding and retrieval. After two meta-analyses of positron emission tomography (PET) and functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) studies, we investigated a possible dissociation within the MTL memory system in relation to encoding and retrieval processes. Based on previous reports that specifically related the function of the MTL in episodic memory to successful encoding and actual recovery of information, we applied event-related fMRI to compare successful encoding of words (ES) directly with successful recognition of those same words (RS). Our results did not indicate a clear dissociation between encoding and retrieval activations in the MTL. Instead, a region in the left MTL, covering the parahippocampal cortex and hippocampal formation, which was activated during ES almost completely overlapped with the area that was activated during RS. An additional region in the left anterior MTL, including the entorhinal cortex, was found to be activated exclusively during ES. Research has indicated that a large percentage of cells in this region are particularly sensitive to the relative novelty of stimuli. Our results, therefore, suggest that the parahippocampal/hippocampal region is involved in the formation and subsequent reactivation of memory traces, whereas the activity observed in the entorhinal cortex may reflect elementary memory processes related to novelty detection.
To determine what influence the pre- and parasubiculum regions of the hippocampal formation have on neural representations within the dorsal hippocampus, single-unit recordings were made as rats with bilateral ibotenic acid lesions centered on the former regions (n = 4) or control surgeries (n = 3) foraged freely. Spatial firing specificity was measured using an information content procedure. Cells from lesioned animals (n = 57) provided significantly less spatial information than cells from control animals (n = 44). Whereas some degree of location-related activity (place fields) was observed in 98% of neurons recorded from control animals, it was observed in only 65% of the neurons from lesioned animals. The spatial resolution of the intact place fields appeared to be compromised in lesioned animals as a result of their having a higher firing rate outside the place field. These findings indicate that the pre- and parasubiculum regions have a major role in maintaining the specificity of the place field firing of hippocampal pyramidal cells. Since previous data indicate that these lesioned animals displayed delay-dependent deficits in spatial tasks, these findings also suggest that a disruption in place field activity may be a causal factor in this spatial memory deficit.
Experiments were carried out for the purpose of comparing the electrophysiological properties of spontaneously occurring hippocampal theta field activity with those of theta-like field activity elicited by 5-Hz and 7-Hz electrical stimulation of the medial septum in urethane-anesthetized rats. Experiment 1 compared the amplitude and phase depth profiles for the three conditions of spontaneously occurring theta, theta elicited by 5-Hz medial septal stimulation, and theta elicited by 7-Hz medial septal stimulation. The results supported the conclusion that septally elicited theta field activity exhibited characteristics similar to those of spontaneously occurring theta field activity. Experiment 2 compared the discharge properties of hippocampal theta-related cellular discharges during spontaneous and septally elicited theta field activity. In contrast to the results of Experiment 1, the findings of Experiment 2 supported the conclusion that electrical stimulation of medial septal nuclei did not produce typical responses of hippocampal theta-related cellular activity. During spontaneously occurring field conditions, HPC theta-ON cells increased their discharge rates during spontaneous theta field activity, relative to LIA, and theta-OFF cells decreased (often to zero) their discharge rates during theta field activity relative to LIA. During septally elicited theta-like activity, phasic and tonic theta-ON cells decreased their discharge rates (some were totally inhibited), and most tonic theta-OFF cells increased their discharge rates (although two were totally inhibited). In addition, the discharges (albeit reduced) of the majority of both phasic and tonic theta-ON cells during septal driving became entrained to the stimulation pulses and thus exhibited rhythmicity and strong phase relations with the field activity. Furthermore, both cell types discharged near the positive peak of the septally elicited theta field activity during 5-Hz stimulation and near the negative peak during 7-Hz stimulation. The discharges of most tonic theta-OFF cells also became entrained to the stimulation pulses and exhibited similar phase relations to theta-ON cells during the 5-Hz and 7-Hz driving frequencies. Thus, based on cellular evidence, electrical stimulation of the medial septum activates the hippocampal neural circuitry involved in the generation of theta field activity in a nonphysiological manner. The findings of the present paper provide an explanation for why electrical stimulation of the medial septum in freely moving rats elicits a theta-like field activity that is dissociated from the normal behavioral correlates, in contrast to those elicited by stimulation of the posterior nucleus of the hypothalamus (Bland and Oddie. 2001. Behav Brain Res 127:119-136).
At 4 h during pilocarpine-induced status epilepticus (DPISE) in rat, protein kinase C (PKC)beta1, PKCbeta2, and PKCgamma were induced at the border between the stratum oriens and alveus (O/A border) of CA1 in the hippocampus. Induced PKCgamma was colocalized with metabotropic glutamate receptor alpha (mGluR alpha). By intracerebroventricular injection of mGluR1alpha antagonists, (RS)-1-aminoindan-1,5-dicarboxylic acid (AIDA), PKCbeta1, PKCbeta2, and PKCgamma immunoreactive products decreased dramatically; however, intracerebroventricular injection of saline did not change the expression of PKCbeta1, PKCbeta2, and PKCgamma, suggesting that these three PKC isoforms might be involved in mGluR1alpha-related excitoneurotoxicity. One day after pilocarpine-induced status epilepticus (APISE), PKCdelta was induced in microglial cells. At this time point, both PKCgamma and PKCepsilon immunopositive products decreased in the inner molecular layer of upper blade of the stratum granulosum. At 7-31 days APISE, induced PKCbeta1, PKCdelta, PKCeta, and PKCzeta positive astrocytes were demonstrated in all parts of hippocampus, suggesting that they may be involved in gliosis. By this time, both PKCgamma and PKCepsilon immunopositive products in the inner molecular layer had almost disappeared, suggesting that they may be involved in the inhibition of granule cells by controlling neurotransmitter release presynaptically in the dentate gyrus of normal rats.
The goal of this study was to determine whether trace eyeblink conditioning is a hippocampally dependent associative learning task in the mouse. First, we examined trace intervals of 0, 250, and 500 ms to determine a relatively long trace interval that would support eyeblink conditioning in young adult C57BL/6 mice. Mice rapidly acquired conditioned responses (CRs) with a 0-ms trace interval, acquired CRs with a 250-ms trace interval in approximately 2 days (2 sessions per day), and showed little acquisition with a 500-ms trace interval. Control mice were presented randomly unpaired stimuli and failed to show conditioning. We then determined the effect of lesioning dorsal hippocampal neurons on trace eyeblink conditioning. The hippocampus was injected bilaterally with vehicle (phosphate-buffered saline), 0.1% ibotenic acid, or 1% ibotenic acid. The vehicle group showed &gt;60% CRs. The 0.1% group showed significantly fewer CRs (35-45%). The 1% group showed a level of CRs similar to that of the control mice. All the lesioned mice exhibited &gt;60% CRs when subsequently trained with a 0-ms trace interval. A regression analysis indicated that the volume of area CA1 lesioned was more predictive of the behavioral impairment than the lesion volume of either CA3 or dentate gyrus, or even the total lesion volume. We conclude that dorsal hippocampal neurons play a critical role in eyeblink conditioning when a 250-ms trace interval is used with the C57BL/6 mouse, and that this paradigm will be useful for studying behavior and the in vivo and in vitro electrophysiology of hippocampal neurons in normal and transgenic or knockout mice.
Memory consolidation in mammalian brain is accompanied by widespread reorganization of synaptic contacts and dendritic structure. Understanding of the protein-protein interactions that underlie these structural changes has been hampered by the difficulty of studying protein-protein interactions produced in vivo by signaling, learning, and other physiological responses using current methodologies. Using a novel technique that separates interacting proteins from noninteracting proteins on the basis of their protein-target affinity, we identified 16 proteins for which protein-target binding is altered in vivo by spatial learning, including stathmin, complexin I, 14-3-3, and several structural proteins including F-actin capping protein, tubulin, GFAP, and actin. Interactions between complexin and its targets (p25alpha and Drac1-like protein) and the interaction between CapZ and tubulin were calcium-dependent. The preponderance of structural proteins and proteins involved in synapse formation and reorganization of growth cones among proteins undergoing memory-specific changes in protein-protein interactions suggests that synaptic structural reorganization is a predominant feature of the consolidation phase of memory.
Interstitial cells of Cajal (ICC) are involved in the generation of electrical rhythmicity of intestinal muscle and in the transduction of neural inputs in the gut. Although the expression of receptors for neurotransmitters and hormones and some second messengers have been investigated in ICC, the protein kinases present in these cells have not been well documented. This study has demonstrated the immunohistochemical localisation of PKA, PKC gamma and PKC theta in ICC that were identified by the known ICC marker, c-Kit, in the guinea-pig gut. Other PKCs, PKC alpha, beta, delta, epsilon, eta, iota and lambda, and Ca(2+)-calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II were not localised in ICC. Double labelling studies were conducted on longitudinal muscle-myenteric plexus and external muscle-myenteric plexus preparations of the oesophagus, stomach (fundus, corpus and antrum), duodenum, distal ileum, caecum, proximal and distal colon, and rectum. The three protein kinases were detected in c-Kit-immunoreactive ICC at the level of the myenteric plexus (IC-MY), in the muscle (IC-IM) and at the level of the deep muscular plexus (IC-DMP) in the small intestine. PKA was found in over 90% of IC-IM in all regions examined, and in over 90% of IC-MY in the gastric body and antrum and throughout the small and large intestines. PKC gamma was in the majority of ICC in the gastric body and antrum and in the small intestine, but was largely absent from ICC in the oesophagus, proximal stomach and large intestine. PKC theta occurred in the majority of ICC in all regions except the rectum. The intensity of staining was greatest for PKA, with PKC gamma giving comparatively weak labelling of ICC. PKA was also detected in myenteric neurons, smooth muscle, macrophages and fibroblast-like cells. PKC gamma labelling occurred in large, multipolar neurons throughout the small and large intestine, as well as in lymph vessels and in capillaries. It is concluded that PKA, PKC gamma and PKC theta are all present in ICC, with the differences in their localisations suggesting specific roles for each in ICC function.
Intracerebral and intravenous administration of progesterone (P) and its ring A-reduced metabolites induces intense sexual behavior (lordosis and proceptivity) in estrogen-primed rats. The present study tested the hypothesis that the nitric oxide-cGMP-protein kinase G pathway is involved in the facilitation of sexual behavior induced by the intracerebroventricular (i.c.v.) administration of P (130 ng) and its ring A-reduced metabolites 5alpha-dihydroprogesterone (5alpha-DHP; 13 ng) and 5alpha,3alpha-pregnanolone (5alpha,3alpha-Pgl; 13 ng). In Experiment 1, we tested the relevance of the nitric oxide/cGMP pathway by infusing a nitric oxide synthase inhibitor or a nitric oxide-dependent, soluble guanylyl cyclase inhibitor icv before progestin administration. The lordosis induced by P, 5alpha-DHP and 5alpha,3alpha-Pgl was significantly reduced at 2 h after progestin infusion by the previous injection of either a nitric oxide synthase inhibitor or by a soluble guanylyl cyclase inhibitor. Lordosis behavior returned to control values by 4 h. In Experiment 2, i.c.v. infusion of the protein kinase G inhibitor KT5823 significantly inhibited the lordosis behavior induced by all three progestins at 2 h. These data support the hypothesis that the nitric oxide/cGMP/protein kinase G pathway is involved in the lordosis induced by P and some of its ring A-reduced metabolites.
Repeated administration of the dopamine agonist quinpirole induces behavioral sensitization in rats that is characterized by a four- to eight-fold increase in the amount of locomotion compared to an acute dose of quinpirole, in the absence of any increases in mouthing behavior. The monoamine oxidase (MAO) inhibitor, clorgyline, switches behavioral sensitization to quinpirole from that of locomotion to self-directed mouthing. The mechanism by which clorgyline produces this switch in behavioral sensitization is unknown, but is independent of the known effects of clorgyline, namely, inhibition of MAO, inhibition of striatal dopamine uptake, or stimulation of sigma and I(2) receptors. Because clorgyline also inhibits hypothalamo-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis function, and increased HPA activity facilitates the behavioral effects of psychostimulant drugs, the effects of clorgyline on quinpirole sensitization are possibly due to an inhibition of HPA function. Therefore, the present study examined whether HPA activity is required for sensitization to quinpirole, and whether clorgyline exerts its effects on quinpirole sensitization via inhibition of HPA function. Control and hypophysectomized rats were administered clorgyline (1 mg/kg, s.c.) or vehicle 90 min before each injection of quinpirole (0.5 mg/kg x 8, twice weekly) or saline. To assess the level of sensitization reached by control and hypophysectomized rats, test injections of quinpirole (0.0, 0.07, and 0.2 mg/kg) were administered. Chronic quinpirole administration produced equivalent levels of locomotor sensitization in control and hypophysectomized rats. Clorgyline was equally effective in blocking the development of locomotor sensitization in control and hypophysectomized rats, and in sensitizing self-directed mouthing. The present study suggests that (1). HPA function is not necessary for the development of quinpirole sensitization and, (2). clorgyline does not produce its effects on behavioral sensitization to quinpirole via an inhibition of HPA activity. Moreover, the observation that quinpirole sensitization develops normally in the absence of any pituitary endocrine function suggests that pituitary-gonadal and pituitary-thyroid axes activity are also not necessary for quinpirole sensitization to occur.
In visual discrimination tasks, the relevant feature to discriminate is defined before stimulus presentation. In feature uncertainty tasks, a cue about the relevant feature is provided after stimulus offset. We used (15)O-butanol positron emission tomography (PET) in order to investigate brain activation during a feature uncertainty task. There was greater activity during the feature uncertainty task, compared with stimulus detection and discrimination of orientation and spatial frequency, in the lateral and medial prefrontal cortex, the cuneus, superior temporal and inferior parietal cortex, cortical motor areas, and the cerebellum. The most robust and consistent activation was observed in the dorsal anterior cingulate cortex (Brodmann area 32; x = 0 y = 16, z = 40). The insula, located near the claustrum (x = -38, y = 8, z = 4), was activated during the discrimination tasks compared with the feature uncertainty condition. These results suggest that the dorsal anterior cingulate cortex is important in feature uncertainty conditions, which include divided attention, expectancy under uncertainty, and cognitive monitoring.
Specific language impairment is a neurodevelopmental disorder characterized by impairments essentially restricted to the domain of language and language learning skills. This contrasts with autism, which is a pervasive developmental disorder defined by multiple impairments in language, social reciprocity, narrow interests and/or repetitive behaviors. Genetic linkage studies and family data suggest that the two disorders may have genetic components in common. Two samples, from Canada and the US, selected for specific language impairment were genotyped at loci where such common genes are likely to reside. Significant evidence for linkage was previously observed at chromosome 13q21 in our Canadian sample (HLOD 3.56) and was confirmed in our US sample (HLOD 2.61). Using the posterior probability of linkage (PPL) to combine evidence for linkage across the two samples yielded a PPL over 92%. Two additional loci on chromosome 2 and 7 showed weak evidence for linkage. However, a marker in the cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator (7q31) showed evidence for association to SLI, confirming results from another group (O'Brien et al. 2003). Our results indicate that using samples selected for components of the autism phenotype may be a useful adjunct to autism genetics.
High blood pressure (BP) is common in acute stroke and might be associated with a poor outcome, although observational studies have given varying results. In a systematic review, articles were sought that reported both admission BP and outcome (death, death or dependency, death or deterioration, stroke recurrence, and hematoma expansion) in acute stroke. Data were analyzed by the Cochrane Review Manager software and are given as odds ratios (ORs) or weighted mean differences (WMDs) with 95% confidence intervals (CIs). Altogether, 32 studies were identified involving 10 892 patients. When all data were included, death was significantly associated with an elevated mean arterial BP ([MABP] OR, 1.61; 95% CI, 1.12 to 2.31) and a high diastolic BP ([DBP] OR, 1.71; 95% CI, 1.33 to 2.48). Combined death or dependency was associated with high systolic BP ([SBP] OR, 2.69; 95% CI, 1.13 to 6.40) and DBP (OR, 4.68; 95% CI, 1.87 to 11.70) in primary intracerebral hemorrhage (PICH). Similarly, high SBP (+11.73 mm Hg; 95% CI, 1.30 to 22.16), MABP (+9.00 mm Hg; 95% CI, 0.92 to 17.08), and DBP (+6.00 mm Hg; 95% CI, 0.19 to 11.81) were associated with death or dependency in ischemic stroke. Combined death or deterioration was associated with a high SBP (OR, 5.57; 95% CI, 1.42 to 21.86) in patients with PICH. In summary, high BP in acute ischemic stroke or PICH is associated with subsequent death, death or dependency, and death or deterioration. Moderate lowering of BP might improve outcome. Acute BP lowering needs to be tested in 1 or more large, randomized trials.



We report the use of a gold coating on microelectrode arrays (MEAs) to enable the use of the relatively reliable surface modification chemistry afforded by alkanethiol self-assembled monolayers (SAMs). The concept is simple and begins with planar MEAs, which are commercially available for neuronal cell culture and for brain slice studies. A gold film, with an intermediate adhesive layer of titanium, is deposited over the insulation of an existing MEA in a manner so as to be thin enough for transmission light microscopy as well as to avoid electrical contact to the electrodes. The alkanethiol-based linking chemistry is then applied for the desired experimental purpose. Here we show that polylysine linked to alkanethiol SAM can control the geometry of an in vitro hippocampal neuronal network grown on the MEA. Furthermore, recordings of neuronal action potentials from random and patterned networks suggest that the gold coating does not significantly alter the electrode properties. This design scheme may be useful for increasing the number of neurons located in close proximity to the electrodes. Realization of in vitro neuronal circuits on MEAs may significantly benefit basic neuroscience studies, as well as provide the insight relevant to applications such as neural prostheses or cell-based biosensors. The gold coating technique makes it possible to use the rich set of thiol-based surface modification techniques in combination with MEA recording.
In this paper, we use a unified loss function, called the soft insensitive loss function, for Bayesian support vector regression. We follow standard Gaussian processes for regression to set up the Bayesian framework, in which the unified loss function is used in the likelihood evaluation. Under this framework, the maximum a posteriori estimate of the function values corresponds to the solution of an extended support vector regression problem. The overall approach has the merits of support vector regression such as convex quadratic programming and sparsity in solution representation. It also has the advantages of Bayesian methods for model adaptation and error bars of its predictions. Experimental results on simulated and real-world data sets indicate that the approach works well even on large data sets.
A major source of endocrine-disrupting substances, usually not considered in laboratory animal experiments, is the diet used in research investigations. Soy represents the main protein source in almost all natural-ingredient commercially available formulated diets. Soy-derived isoflavones are the most abundant and in many ways the most studied phytoestrogens, and phytoestrogens (isoflavones) are known endocrine disruptors. Research is reviewed that identifies the physiological and behavioral endocrine-disrupting effects of dietary phytoestrogens (isoflavones) in animal diets, including most of the isoflavones, which are in a glycoside form and biologically inactive, and those in the gastrointestinal tract, which are biologically active. The isoflavones genistein and daidzein have similar molecular weights and structural characteristics to that of 17-beta estradiol, which may enable them to exert estrogenic and antiestrogenic properties are described and characterized. Daidzein can be further metabolized to the potent and abundant molecule equol, which in rodents is produced in very large amounts and represents the major circulating metabolite among all biologically active isoflavones. Equol has the unique and important ability to specifically bind 5 alpha-dihydro-testosterone, and to act in turn to inhibit the action of this potent androgen. The specific influence of dietary soy phytoestrogens on consumptive, learning and memory, and anxiety-related behaviors is identified. Regulatory behaviors such as food and water intake, adipose deposition and leptin, and insulin levels affected by dietary isoflavones are also discussed.
The green anol (Anolis carolinensis) is an excellent reptilian model for studying reproductive behavior and the neural and muscular morphology that supports it. This lizard has been the subject of behavioral and ecological study for more than 100 yr, and a rich literature exists on its natural history. Both courtship and copulatory behaviors reveal sex and seasonal differences, which allow for the study of mechanisms regulation naturally occurring variation in performance at multiple levels within a single animal model. Green anoles are readily obtained due to their abundance in the wild; once in the laboratory, they are easily maintained, bred, and reared. Background on the natural history and husbandry of this lizard is provided, and the authors' research program on the regulation of reproductive anatomy and behavior is reviewed, Discussion includes the similarities and differences in the mechanisms mediating both structure and function compared with more traditional animal models. This type of comparative research will make it possible to identify the fundamental principles governing reproductive biology, thus advancing both basic and applied knowledge.
Cnemidophorus whiptail lizards offer a unique opportunity to study behavioral and neural evolution because unlike most genera, ancestral and descendant species are still extant, and comparisons between species provide a window into correlated changes in biological organization through speciation. This review focuses on the all-female or parthenogenetic species Cnemidophorus uniparens (descendant species), which evolved through several hybridization events involving the sexually reproducing species Cnemidophorus inornatus (ancestral species). Data compiled over more than 2 decades include behavioral, endocrine, and neural differences between these two related species of whiptail lizards. For example, unlike females of the ancestral species, individuals of the descendant species display male-like mounting behavior (pseudocopulatory behavior) after ovulation. Pseudocopulatory behavior in the parthenogen is triggered by the progesterone surge after ovulation, and the behavioral capacity to respond to progesterone appears to be an ancestral trait that was inherited from C. inornatus males through the hybridization events. Interestingly, the regulation of sex steroid hormone receptor mRNA in brain areas critical for the expression of sociosexual behaviors differs between females of the two species and suggests that evolutionary changes in the regulation of gene expression could be a proximate mechanism that underlies the evolution of a novel social behavior in the parthenogen. Finally, because the sexual species is diploid, whereas the parthenogen is triploid, differences between the species could directly assess the effect of ploidy. The behavioral and neuroendocrinological data are pertinent for considering this possibility.
Pair bond formation has been investigated much less than many other social behaviors, perhaps in part because traditional laboratory mice and rats do not exhibit this behavior. However, pair bonding is common among monogamous animals such as the prairie vole (Microtus ochrogaster). In this review, we discuss how the prairie vole has been used as a model system to investigate the neurobiology of pair bonding. Descriptions include neuroanatomical differences between monogamous and non-monogamous voles, as well as how manipulations of vasopressin, oxytocin, dopamine, and corticosterone systems affect pair bond formation. Also summarized are potential interactions among these systems that regulate pair bonding, and the extent of sexual dimorphism in underlying mechanisms. Pair bonding in prairie voles is an excellent model system for studying central processing of social information. Understanding the mechanisms underlying this behavior may provide important insights into human disorders associated with impaired social functioning.
Octodon degus is a moderate-sized, precocious, but slowly maturing, hystricomorph rodent from central Chile. We have used this species to study a variety of questions about circadian rhythms in a diurnal mammal that readily adapts to most laboratory settings. In collaboration with others, we have found that a number of fundamental features of circadian function differ in this diurnal rodent compared with nocturnal rodents, specifically rats or hamsters. We have also discovered that many aspects of the circadian system are sexually dimorphic in this species. However, the sexual dimorphisms develop in the presence of pubertal hormones, and the sex differences do not appear until after gonadal puberty is complete. The developmental timing of the sex differences is much later than in the previously studied altricial, rapidly developing rat, mouse, or hamster. This developmental timing of circadian function is reminiscent of that reported for adolescent humans. In addition, we have developed a model that demonstrates how nonphotic stimuli, specifically conspecific odors, can interact with the circadian system to hasten recovery from a phase-shift of the light:dark cycle (jet lag). Interestingly, the production of the odor-based social signal and sensitivity to it are modulated by adult gonadal hormones. Data from degu circadian studies have led us to conclude that treatment of some circadian disorders in humans will likely need to be both age and gender specific. Degus will continue to be valuable research animals for resolving other questions regarding reproduction, diabetes, and cataract development.
Antigen presenting cell (APC) function is central to the development of an effective anti-viral immune response. Among APC, monocytes, macrophages and dendritic cells (DC) form the principal non-T cell compartment involved in in vivo HIV infection, and these cells play important and well-established roles in multiple aspects of viral pathogenesis. HIV infection may result in APC defects, which could ultimately contribute to the loss of CD4+ T cell responses observed early in HIV infection, when the CD4+ T cell number is still within the normal range. Extensive in vitro studies have demonstrated that the envelope glycoproteins of HIV-1 exert profound influences on various cell populations of the immune system, including hematopoietic progenitors, T and B lymphocytes, monocytes/ macrophages and DC, as well as on neuronal cells. The demonstration of the presence of envelope proteins both free in the circulation and bound to the surface of CD4+ cells suggests that gp120 interactions with non-infected cells can influence cellular functions in vivo, thus contributing to the immunopathogenesis of AIDS. This paper provides an overview of the present knowledge on gp120 binding, signal transduction triggering and interference with macrophage and DC functions and it highlights the importance of this interaction in the pathogenesis of AIDS.
Aripiprazole is a new anti psychotic with a unique receptor binding profile that combines partial agonistic activity at D2 receptor and 5-HT 1A receptor and potent antagonism at 5-HT 2A receptor. This receptor profile makes it possible for it to act as a dopamine system stabilizer. Based on various short term and long term studies, aripiprazole has been found to be effective in schizophrenia and has no significant adverse effect on QTc prolongation, prolactin, serum lipids, and has a low potential for weight gain. Present study aims to evaluate the efficacy and tolerability of aripiprazole (10-15mg/day) in the treatment of Indian patients of schizophrenia and to see its effect on QTc interval, prolactin levels, serum lipids, plasma sugar and weight gain in these patients. Outpatients with an ongoing/newly diagnosed ICD-10 Schizophrenia (n=136) were randomly assigned to 10 or 15 mg dose of Aripiprazole for a period of six weeks. Clinical response was evaluated by the Positive And Negative Symptoms Scale (PANSS), Clinical Global Impression (CGI) scale and safety was evaluated by observing spontaneously reported adverse events and changes in various laboratory parameters. Switching schizophrenic patients to aripiprazole (10/15 mg) from both conventional and atypical anti-psychotics was safe and well tolerated. Six weeks after switching to aripiprazole, patients showed improvements in PANSS scores (P&lt; 0.001), EPS, prolactin levels and weight over the baseline levels. No difference was seen in the 10 or 15mg dose groups. One hospitalization was reported (due to hepatitis E). Common side effects reported were insomnia, somnolence, nausea, vomiting and diarrhea. Aripiprazole is a safe and effective anti psychotic in Indian patients - both in newly diagnosed, as well as, in patients not responding to or intolerant to other available typical and atypical antipsychotics.
Dendritic cells (DC) are antigen-presenting cells specialized to regulate immune responses. DC not only control immunity, but also maintain tolerance to self-antigens-two complementary functions that would ensure the integrity of the organism in an environment full of pathogens. Here we report that splenic DC that had been exposed in vitro to IFN-gamma (IFN-gamma-DC) exhibit therapeutic potential on acute experimental allergic encephalomyelitis (EAE) in Lewis rats, and on chronic-relapsing EAE in B6 and SJL/J mice. During incipient EAE [day 5 post-immunization (p.i.) in rats, day 7 p.i. in mice], IFN-gamma-DC were injected s.c. Severity of clinical signs of EAE was dramatically inhibited in animals injected with IFN-gamma-DC, showing normal magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) of the spinal cord and brain. In contrast, the EAE rats receiving PBS or naive DC had severe clinical signs with multiple and extensive MRI lesions in the spinal cord and brain. IFN-gamma-DC triggered an antigen-specific IFN-gamma production, and induced apoptosis of CD4(+) T cells possibly through DC expressing indoleamine 2,3-dioxygenase and/or an IFN-gamma-dependent pathway. As a result, infiltration of macrophages and CD4(+) T cells within the spinal cords was dramatically reduced in animals injected with IFN-gamma-DC as compared to animals injected with PBS or naive DC. This approach may represent a novel possibility of individualized immunotherapy using autologous, in vitro modified DC as a complement to conventional therapy in multiple sclerosis and other diseases with an autoimmune background.
Despite the incredible diversity among extant eyes, laws of physics constrain how light can be collected resulting in only eight known optical systems in animal eyes. Surprisingly, all animal eyes share a common molecular strategy using opsin for catching photons, but there are a diverse collection of mechanisms with proteins unrelated to each other used to focus light for vision. However, opsin is expressed in either one of two types of photoreceptor that differ fundamentally in their structure and tissue of origin. Taken together, this collection of observations strongly suggests that eyes have had multiple origins with remarkable convergence due to physics and molecular conservation of the opsin protein. Yet recent work has shown that a family of conserved genes are involved in eye formation despite substantial differences in their structure and origin, leading to a controversy over whether eyes evolved once or repeatedly. A likely resolution of this discussion is that particular genes and genetic programs have become associated with specific features needed for eyes and such suites of genes have been recruited as new eyes evolve. Since specific genes and their products are used repeatedly, it is somewhat difficult to conceptualize their causal relationships relative to evolutionary processes. However, detailed comparison of developmental programs may offer clues about multiple origins.
Enteropathy-type T-cell lymphoma (ETCL) is a rare extranodal lymphoma that tends to disseminate into the intestines and other extranodal organs. We present a case of ETCL with involvement of the lungs and kidneys and report CC chemokine receptor 7 (CCR7) expression of lymphoma cells. A 73-year-old man was admitted to the hospital with a complaint of abdominal pain. Multiple ulcers and perforations were observed in the small intestine, and partial resection of the ileum was performed. Histological examination of the resected specimen revealed diffuse proliferation of atypical large lymphoid cells. The diagnosis was ETCL with dissemination into the lungs and kidney. Lymphoma cells of the small intestine and in pleural effusion were CD3+, CD4+, CD7+, CD8-, CD25-, CD56-, CD103 +/-, and TIA-1+. Rearrangement of the T-cell receptor beta gene was detected, and human T-lymphotropic virus was not integrated. Combination chemotherapy did not result in a sustained response. The results for CCR7 expression of lymphoma cells in the lung and pleural effusion were negative. Therefore we concluded that lymphoma cells did not migrate into the lymph nodes but instead spread into the extranodal organs.

Opioid growth factor (OGF), [Met5]-enkephalin, interacts with the OGF receptor (OGFr) to inhibit the growth of human squamous cell carcinoma of the head and neck (SCCHN) in vitro. Administration of OGF by daily intraperitoneal injection (i.p.) to animals with xenografts of CAL-27, a poorly differentiated SCCHN, is known to repress tumorigenic events. In this study, the ubiquity of OGF action on SCCHN was investigated by examination of OGF activity on SCC-1 tumors; this human cell line is well-differentiated and highly invasive. Mice receiving daily i.p. injections (10 mg/kg) of OGF had more than a 3-day delay in tumor appearance, and decreases in tumor volume ranging from 51 to 64% in comparison to controls throughout the experimental period. Receptor binding analysis for OGFr showed that binding capacity (Bmax) was 2.2-fold greater than control values, but binding affinity (Kd) was comparable. Plasma OGF levels did not vary between OGF and control groups. Mice receiving OGF by continuous infusion using minipumps, or by daily intratumoral injection, had characteristics of tumorigenicity similar to their corresponding control animals, although the OGF levels in mice receiving the OGF by minipump were elevated 18-fold greater than the control group. These data indicate that: i) the inhibitory action of OGF may be ubiquitous for SCCHN, ii) OGF treatment alters the characteristics of the OGF receptor but not of plasma OGF levels, and iii) the magnitude of effects of OGF on SCCHN is dependent on the route of administration.
This review is aimed at providing readers with a comprehensive reference article about the distribution and function of P2 receptors in all the organs, tissues, and cells in the body. Each section provides an account of the early history of purinergic signaling in the organ?cell up to 1994, then summarizes subsequent evidence for the presence of P2X and P2Y receptor subtype mRNA and proteins as well as functional data, all fully referenced. A section is included describing the plasticity of expression of P2 receptors during development and aging as well as in various pathophysiological conditions. Finally, there is some discussion of possible future developments in the purinergic signaling field.
Exocytosis is an essential membrane traffic event mediating the secretion of intracellular protein contents such as hormones and neurotransmitters as well as the incorporation of membrane proteins and lipids to specific domains of the plasma membrane. As a fundamental cell biological process, exocytosis is crucial for cell growth, cell-cell communication, and cell polarity establishment. For most eukaryotic cells exocytosis is polarized. A multiprotein complex, named the exocyst, is required for polarized exocytosis from yeast to mammals. The exocyst consists of eight components: Sec3, Sec5, Sec6, Sec8, Sec10, Sec15, Exo70, and Exo84. They are localized to sites of active exocytosis, where they mediate the targeting and tethering of post-Golgi secretory vesicles for subsequent membrane fusion. Here we review the progress made in the understanding of the exocyst and its role in polarized exocytosis.




A variety of neurological disorders may have their origin during development of the central nervous system. Defects consistent with abnormal brain development have been reported in schizophrenia. These include faulty neuronal migration,altered spatial neuronal distribution, and the absence of significant gliosis. These abnormalities in the adult are allocated to developmental processes and thus indicate a developmental basis for schizophrenia. Our way toward understanding schizophrenia pathology has been to consider the genes that regulate normal brain development. One such family of genes is the POU family of homeobox transcription factors. This chapter reviews POU domain proteins, focusing on the POU III domain gene, Oct-6, along with its potential relevance to schizophrenia.
Excitatory synapses are characterized by an electron-dense thickening at the cytoplasmic surface of the postsynaptic membrane, called the postsynaptic density (PSD). The PSD is a fibrous specialization of the submembrane cytoskeleton approximately 30-40 nm thick and about 100 nm wide. Hundreds of molecules have been identified in the PSD: ion-gated and G-protein-coupled receptors, association, adaptors, and scaffolding proteins, key enzymes involved in phosphorylation-dephosphorylation mechanisms, and cytoskeletal proteins. Each of these proteins may have a pivotal function in setting the molecular scenario for the development of synaptic plasticity. Scaffolding proteins are major players in the organization of the postsynaptic signal transduction machinery,they regulate receptor trafficking and clustering, modulate axon pathfinding,and drive the correct targeting of neuronal proteins to their appropriate cytoplasmic compartment. Emerging findings suggest a relevant involvement of PSD scaffolding/adaptor proteins in behavior modulation in animal models of synaptic plasticity disorders and pharmacological isomorphisms.
Analysis of naturalistic chewing patterns may provide insight into mapping the neural substrates of jaw movement control systems, including their adaptive modification during the classically conditioned jaw movement (CJM) paradigm. Here, New Zealand White rabbits were administered food and water stimuli orally to evaluate the influence of stimulus consistency on masticatory pattern. Chewing patterns were recorded via video camera and movements were analyzed by computerized image analysis. The mandibular kinematics, specifically the extent of dorsal/ventral, medial/lateral, and rostral/caudal movement, were significantly larger in food-evoked than water-evoked chewing. Water-evoked chewing frequency, however, was significantly higher than that of food-evoked movements. In light of known cortical mastication modulatory centers, our findings implicate different neural substrates for the responses to food and water stimuli in the rabbit. A detailed delineation of jaw movement patterns and circuitry is essential to characterize the neural substrates of CJM.

We studied the safety of autologous peripheral blood stem-cell transplantation (PBSCT) in four patients with progressive multiple sclerosis. Clinical and magnetic resonance imaging outcomes were secondary end-points. Cladribine administration preceded filgrastim-primed PBSC collection, aiming for lymphocyte depletion. Conditioning was with antithymocyte globulin and cyclophosphamide. The procedure was well tolerated, but without obvious clinical benefit. The study was terminated when other therapeutic options with lower morbidity became available.



This study quantifies sex differences in the acoustic structure of vowel-like grunt vocalizations in baboons (Papio spp.) and tests the basic perceptual discriminability of these differences to baboon listeners. Acoustic analyses were performed on 1028 grunts recorded from 27 adult baboons (11 males and 16 females) in southern Africa, focusing specifically on the fundamental frequency (F0) and formant frequencies. The mean F0 and the mean frequencies of the first three formants were all significantly lower in males than they were in females, more dramatically so for F0. Experiments using standard psychophysical procedures subsequently tested the discriminability of adult male and adult female grunts. After learning to discriminate the grunt of one male from that of one female, five baboon subjects subsequently generalized this discrimination both to new call tokens from the same individuals and to grunts from novel males and females. These results are discussed in the context of both the possible vocal anatomical basis for sex differences in call structure and the potential perceptual mechanisms involved in their processing by listeners, particularly as these relate to analogous issues in human speech production and perception.
Multidisciplinary research in recent years has delineated the hypothalamic hardcore wiring that encodes appetitive drive. The appetite regulating network (ARN) consisting of distinct orexigenic and anorexigenic circuitries operates in the arcuate nucleus-paraventricular nucleus axis of the hypothalamus to propagate and relay the appetitive drive, and is subject to modulation by excitatory and inhibitory messages from the lateral hypothalamus and ventromedial nucleus, respectively. Reciprocal afferent humoral signals, comprised of anorexigenic leptin from white adipose tissue and orexigenic ghrelin from stomach, to the ARN integrate the moment-to-moment regulation of energy homeostasis. Various loci in the ARN and afferent hormonal feedback circuitry in the rodent brain are important for food craving elicited by drugs of abuse. This convergence of neurochemical and hormonal signaling has now paved the way to address the fundamental question of whether cellular and molecular events that underlie the appetitive drive in response to diminished energy stores in the body are akin to drug craving during withdrawal in humans.
This paper presents a research agenda for the use of optimal healing environments (OHEs) for the treatment (and possible prevention) of the negative effects of exposure to extreme environmental stress or trauma. As background for understanding, this paper starts by briefly introducing the unique perspective of psychiatry in the field of OHEs. It then describes the nature of trauma spectrum responses including the best-known psychiatric response, post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD), a description of the current accepted treatments for PTSD, and the status of research in alternative and complementary treatments for PTSD. These are followed by a discussion of the emerging role of clinical neurobiology in mental health, specifically the potential for the use of neuroimaging in filling a gap in methods of evaluating OHEs in trauma research. Last, it provides a list of important potential topics of research within the fields of trauma responses, neuroscience and OHEs.
A conception of insight is proposed, based on a systems and information-processing framework and using current neuroscience concepts, as an integration of information that results in a new symbolization of experience with a significant change in self-image and a transformation of non-declarative procedural knowledge into declarative knowledge. Since procedural memory and knowledge, seen to include emotional and relationship issues, is slow to change, durable emotional and behavioral change often requires repeated practice, a need not explicitly addressed in standard psychoanalytic technique. Working through is thus seen as also encompassing nondynamic factors. The application of these ideas to therapeutic technique suggests possible therapeutic interventions beyond interpretation. An illustrative clinical vignette is presented.
One of the main research strategies to improve treatment for spinal cord injury involves the use of cell transplantation. This review looks at the advantages and possible caveats of using glial cells from the olfactory system in transplant-mediated repair. These glial cells, termed olfactory ensheathing cells (OECs), ensheath the axons of the olfactory receptor neurons. The primary olfactory system is an unusual tissue in that it can support neurogenesis throughout life. In addition, newly generated olfactory receptor neurons are able to grow into the CNS environment of the olfactory bulb tissue and reform synapses. It is thought that this unique regenerative property depends in part on the presence of OECs. OECs share some of the properties of both astrocytes and Schwann cells but appear to have advantages over these and other glial cells for CNS repair. In particular, OECs are less likely to induce hypertrophy of CNS astrocytes. As well as remyelinating demyelinated axons, OEC grafts appear to promote the restoration of functions lost following a spinal cord lesion. However, much of the evidence for this is based on behavioural tests, and the mechanisms that underlie their potential benefits in transplant-mediated repair remain to be clarified.
The purpose of this study was to test the theory put forth by Zvolensky et al. [Clin. Psychol. Sci. Pract. 10 (2003) 29] that smoking is specifically associated with panic disorder (PD) and not more generally associated with other anxiety disorders. Smoking behaviors were examined across three anxiety disorders: panic disorder with or without agoraphobia, social phobia (SP), and obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD). A greater proportion of the PD group (40.4%) reported smoking compared to the SP (20%) and OCD (22.4%) groups. Those in the PD group were also more likely than those in the other groups to report being a heavy smoker (greater than 10 cigarettes daily). No significant interaction between diagnosis and smoking status was found for any of the symptom measures. However, participants who smoked had significantly higher scores than nonsmokers on a number of scales, including measures of depression, general anxiety, and distress. Differences in anxiety sensitivity between smokers and nonsmokers approached significance. These findings provide support for Zvolensky et al.'s [Clin. Psychol. Sci. Pract. 10 (2003) 29] theoretical conceptualization and suggest a specific link between smoking and panic disorder. Further investigation is warranted to determine the causal direction of this association.
This study aimed to investigate central and peripheral contributions to fatigue during repeated maximal voluntary isometric plantar flexions (MVCs). Changes in joint torque, level of activation (LOA), resting twitch amplitude (RT), electromyographic signals (EMG), and presynaptic inhibition of Ia afferents were investigated during 9 bouts of 10 MVCs. MVCs lasted for 2 s and were separated by 1 s. The interval between bouts was 10 s. Electrical stimulation was applied to the tibial nerve; at rest to evoke RTs, M waves, and two (1.5-s interval) H reflexes; with the soleus EMG at 30% of that during MVC to evoke M waves and two H reflexes; and during MVCs to measure LOA. Over the nine bouts, LOA decreased by 12.6% and RT by 16.2%. EMG root mean square during MVCs remained unchanged for the soleus and tibialis anterior muscles, but it decreased for medial gastrocnemius. Peripheral fatigue (decrease in RT) was positively correlated to LOA, whereas central fatigue (decrease in LOA) was not. Depression of both H reflexes suggests that presynaptic inhibition after the first bout was partly induced by homosynaptic postactivation depression of the Ia terminal. The H-reflex-to-M-wave ratio increased with fatigue in both passive and active states, with no change in the ratio of the second H reflex to the first, thereby indicating a decrease of presynaptic inhibition during fatigue. The results indicate that both central and peripheral mechanisms contributed to the fatigue observed during repeated MVCs and that the development of peripheral fatigue was influenced by the level of voluntary activation and initial plantar flexor torque.
Extra corporeal photochemotherapy (ECP) is an immunomodulating procedure used in several nonneurological diseases which, similarly to multiple sclerosis, are likely to be due to T-cell-mediated autoimmunity and it is probable that ECP can modulate the normal activity of peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC). Using the Lewis rat experimental allergic encephalomyelitis (EAE) model of human multiple sclerosis (MS) we examined the effect of extracorporeal UV-A irradiation on psoralen-activated PBMC. In our experiment the comparison between the two groups of animals (ECP or sham-treatment) evidenced that the ECP treatment reduced the severity of EAE on clinical grounds and this result was confirmed by the pathological examination. The changes in the titers of anti-myelin antigen antibodies typical of EAE were also modulated by the procedure. Ex vivo examination evidenced a significant reduction in tumor-necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha) released by PBMC after lipopolysaccharides (LPS) stimulation in culture. We conclude that ECP modifies the normal activity of PBMC during the course of EAE and it is possible that one of the anti-inflammatory mechanisms of action of ECP is correlated to a down-regulation of T-helper 1 lymphocytes activity.
Preclinical studies have identified numerous neuroprotective drugs that attenuate brain damage and improve functional outcome after cerebral ischemia. Despite this success in animal models, neuroprotective therapies in the clinical setting have been unsuccessful. Identification of biochemical markers common to preclinical and clinical cerebral ischemia will provide a more sensitive and objective measure of injury severity and outcome to facilitate clinical management and treatment. However, there are currently no effective biomarkers available for assessment of stroke. Nonerythroid alphaII-spectrin is a cytoskeletal protein that is cleaved by calpain and caspase-3 proteases to signature alphaII-spectrin breakdown products (alphaII-SBDPs) after cerebral ischemia in rodents. This investigation examined accumulation of calpain- and caspase-3-cleaved alphaII-SBDPs in cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) of rodents subjected to 2 hours of transient focal cerebral ischemia produced by middle cerebral artery occlusion (MCAO) followed by reperfusion. After MCAO injury, full-length alphaII-spectrin protein was decreased in brain tissue and increased in CSF from 24 to 72 hours after injury. Whereas alphaII-SBDPs were undetectable in sham-injured control animals, calpain but not caspase-3 specific alphaII-SBDPs were significantly increased in CSF after injury. However, caspase-3 alphaII-SBDPS were observed in CSF of some injured animals. These results indicate that alphaII-SBDPs detected in CSF after injury, particularly those mediated by calpain, may be useful diagnostic indicators of cerebral infarction that can provide important information about specific neurochemical events that have occurred in the brain after acute stroke.
The Wld(s) mouse mutant demonstrates a remarkable phenotype of delayed axonal and synaptic degeneration after nerve lesion. In this study, the authors tested the hypothesis that expression of Wld protein is neuroprotective in an in vivo mouse model of global cerebral ischemia. This model is associated with selective neuronal degeneration in specific brain regions such as the caudate nucleus and CA2 hippocampal pyramidal cell layer. The extent of neuronal damage was quantified in Wld(s) compared to wild-type mice after an identical episode of global cerebral ischemia. The results demonstrated a significant and marked reduction in the extent of neuronal damage in Wld(s) as compared to wild-type C57Bl/6 mice. In the caudate nucleus, Wld expression significantly reduced the percentage of ischemic neuronal damage after global ischemia (Wld(s), 27.7 +/- 16.8%; wild-type mice, 58.7 +/- 32.3%; P = 0.036). Similarly, in the CA2 pyramidal cell layer, there was a significant reduction of neuronal damage in the Wld(s) mice as compared to wild-type mice after ischemia (Wld(s), 17.7 +/- 23.0%; wild-type mice, 41.9 +/- 28.0%; P &lt; 0.023). Thus, these results clearly demonstrate that the Wld gene confers substantial neuroprotection after cerebral ischemia, and suggest a new role to that previously described for Wld(s).
The levels of protein kinase C-gamma (PKC-gamma ) and the calcium/calmodulin-dependent kinase II-alpha (CaMKII-alpha) were measured in crude synaptosomal (P2), particulate (P3), and cytosolic (S3) fractions of the neocortex of rats exposed to 1-hour and 2-hour middle cerebral artery occlusion (MCAO) and 2-hour MCAO followed by 2-hour reperfusion. During MCAO, PKC levels increased in P2 and P3 in the most severe ischemic areas concomitantly with a decrease in S3. In the penumbra, PKCgamma decreased in S3 without any significant increases in P2 and P3. Total PKC-gamma also decreased in the penumbra but not in the ischemic core, suggesting that the protein is degraded by an energy-dependent mechanism, possibly by the 26S proteasome. The CaMKII-alpha levels increased in P2 but not P3 during ischemia and reperfusion in all ischemic regions, particularly in the ischemic core. Concomitantly, the levels in S3 decreased by 20% to 40% in the penumbra and by approximately 80% in the ischemic core. There were no changes in the total levels of CaMKII-alpha during MCAO. The authors conclude that during and after ischemia, PKC and CaMKII-alpha are translocated to the cell membranes, particularly synaptic membranes, where they may modulate cellular function, such as neurotransmission, and also affect cell survival. Drugs preventing PKC and/or CaMKII-alpha translocation may prove beneficial against ischemic cell death.
Asking children and adolescents directly about their experience of sexual victimization overcomes some of the methodological weaknesses inherent in other approaches. Yet complex legal, ethical, and methodological issues remain. This paper reviews the psychometric properties of those questions or instruments that have measured exposure to child sexual abuse directly. A search of four electronic databases using descriptors &quot;child sexual abuse&quot; and &quot;measurement&quot; or &quot;instrumentation&quot; yielded four telephone administered tools, 13 face-to-face interviews, and 32 self-administered questionnaires. Few instruments had been subjected to rigorous evaluation. Establishing the validity and reliability of instruments measuring child sexual abuse and other forms of victimization are critical for the growth and expansion of the field.

Cerebellopontine angle (CPA) medulloblastoma is a rare tumour. To date, only 19 cases have been reported over a period of 8 years, we have treated 14 cases of CPA medulloblastomas. This is first and the largest series of CPA medulloblastomas reported in the world literature.

Obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD) is a frequent and chronic psychiatric disorder that has been linked closely to the serotonin system mainly because of the antiobsessional efficacy of selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs). A limitation of the serotonin hypothesis of OCD is that a substantial number of the patients with OCD show no significant improvement after an adequate trial with SSRIs. There is substantial evidence that these patients may benefit from addition of antipsychotics to their ongoing SSRI treatment, suggesting that dopamine also might play a role in the pathophysiology of OCD. In this review, the preclinical and clinical evidence on the role of dopamine in OCD is summarized.


Schizophrenia is composed of not only positive symptoms, but also cognitive and affective symptoms that contribute significantly to morbidity. Each of these symptoms may be mediated by a separate and distinct neuronal circuit.
The purpose of this study was to assess the frequency, type, and management of trainee impairment at a national level across doctoral programs in clinical, counseling, and school psychology and predoctoral internships. A total of 199 surveys were completed, returned, and usable. In general, doctoral programs reported a greater frequency of trainee impairment than internships. However, a greater percentage of internships had a policy and program in place for managing impairments than did doctoral programs. These findings are compared with past studies and reviews of this issue. In light of these findings, specific implications for training programs are discussed, with the recommendation that training programs address more attention to the assessment and management of such problems.
Recently, a number of investigators have examined the neural loci of psychological processes enabling the control of visual spatial attention using cued-attention paradigms in combination with event-related functional magnetic resonance imaging. Findings from these studies have provided strong evidence for the involvement of a fronto-parietal network in attentional control. In the present study, we build upon this previous work to further investigate these attentional control systems. In particular, we employed additional controls for nonattentional sensory and interpretative aspects of cue processing to determine whether distinct regions in the fronto-parietal network are involved in different aspects of cue processing, such as cue-symbol interpretation and attentional orienting. In addition, we used shorter cue-target intervals that were closer to those used in the behavioral and event-related potential cueing literatures. Twenty participants performed a cued spatial attention task while brain activity was recorded with functional magnetic resonance imaging. We found functional specialization for different aspects of cue processing in the lateral and medial subregions of the frontal and parietal cortex. In particular, the medial subregions were more specific to the orienting of visual spatial attention, while the lateral subregions were associated with more general aspects of cue processing, such as cue-symbol interpretation. Additional cue-related effects included differential activations in midline frontal regions and pretarget enhancements in the thalamus and early visual cortical areas.
The term &quot;size contrast and assimilation&quot; refers to a large class of geometrical illusions in which the apparent sizes of identical visual targets in various contexts are different. Here we have examined whether these intriguing discrepancies between physical and perceived size can be explained by a visual process in which percepts are determined by the probability distribution of the possible real-world sources of retinal stimuli. To test this idea, we acquired a range image database of natural scenes that specified the location of every image point in 3-D space. By sampling the possible physical sources of various size contrast or assimilation stimuli in the database, we determined the probability distributions of the size of the target in the images generated by these sources. For each of the various stimuli tested, these probability distributions of target size in different contexts accurately predicted the perceptual effects reported in psychophysical studies. We conclude that size contrast and assimilation effects are a further manifestation of a fundamentally probabilistic process of visual perception.

The vertebrate hair cell is named for its stereociliary bundle or hair bundle that protrudes from the cell's apical surface. Hair bundles mediate mechanosensitivity, and their highly organized structure plays a critical role in mechanoelectrical transduction and amplification. The prototypical hair bundle is composed of individual stereocilia, 50-300 in number, depending on the animal species and on the type of hair cell. The assembly of stereocilia, in particular, the formation during development of individual rows of stereocilia with descending length, has been analyzed in great morphological detail. Electron microscopic studies have demonstrated that stereocilia are filled with actin filaments that are rigidly cross-linked. The growth of individual rows of stereocilia is associated with the addition of actin filaments and with progressively increasing numbers of cross-bridges between actin filaments. Recently, a mutation in the actin filament-bundling protein espin has been shown to underlie hair bundle degeneration in the deaf jerker mouse, subsequently leading to deafness. Our study was undertaken to investigate the appearance and developmental expression of espin in chicken inner ear sensory epithelia. We found that the onset of espin expression correlates with the initiation and growth of stereocilia bundles in vestibular and cochlear hair cells. Intense espin immunolabeling of stereocilia was colocalized with actin filament staining in all types of hair cells at all developmental stages and in adult animals. Our analysis of espin as a molecular marker for actin filament cross-links in stereocilia is in full accordance with previous morphological studies and implicates espin as an important structural component of hair bundles from initiation of bundle assembly to mature chicken hair cells.
We report on the first correlative study of the electrophysiological properties, shapes, and projections of enteric neurons in the mouse. Neurons in the myenteric plexus of the mouse colon were impaled with microelectrodes containing biocytin, their passive and active electrophysiological properties determined, and their responses to activation of synaptic inputs investigated. Biocytin, injected into the neurons from which recordings were made, was converted to an optically dense product and used to determine the shapes of neurons. By electrophysiological properties, almost all neurons belonged to one of two classes, AH neurons or S neurons. AH neurons had a biphasic repolarization of the action potential, and slow afterhyperpolarizing potentials usually followed the action potentials. S neurons had monophasic repolarizations, no slow afterhyperpolarization, and fast excitatory postsynaptic potentials in response to fibre tract stimulation. By shape, neurons were divided into Dogiel type II (28/136 neurons) and uniaxonal neurons. Dogiel type II neurons had large, smooth-surfaced cell bodies and several long processes that supplied branches within myenteric ganglia. All Dogiel type II neurons had AH electrophysiology; conversely, most AH neurons had Dogiel type II morphology. The majority of uniaxonal neurons had lamellar dendrites, i.e., Dogiel type I morphology. They projected to the circular muscle (circular muscle motor neurons), to the longitudinal muscle (longitudinal muscle motor neurons), and to other myenteric ganglia (interneurons) and in some cases could not be traced to target cells. All S neurons were uniaxonal. A small proportion of uniaxonal neurons (3/70) had AH electrophysiology. Fast excitatory synaptic potentials were only recorded from uniaxonal neurons and were in most cases blocked by nicotinic receptor antagonists. A small component of fast excitatory transmission in some neurons was antagonized by the purine receptor antagonist PPADS. Slow excitatory postsynaptic potentials were observed in both AH and S neurons. Slow inhibitory postsynaptic potentials were recorded from S neurons. We conclude that the major classes of neurons are Dogiel type II neurons with AH electrophysiological properties and Dogiel type I neurons with S electrophysiological properties. The S/Dogiel type I neurons include circular muscle motor neurons, longitudinal muscle motor neurons, and interneurons.
We examine which acoustic features are relevant for recognition of the cotton-top tamarin (Saguinus oedipus) combination long-call. This vocalization, emitted by both males and females, functions in maintaining group cohesion, territory defense and mate attraction. Using the tamarins' natural antiphonal vocal response to hearing a combination long-call as the primary measure of recognition, we presented subjects with synthetic exemplars of combination long-calls in which we manipulated across one of three acoustic dimensions: frequency, time and amplitude. Results indicated that although acoustic features in the frequency and time domains are important for combination long-call recognition, the changes in amplitude within and between syllables are not. Furthermore, while the fundamental frequency appears to be the used to encode information about the frequency contour, the temporal information is derived from the harmonics. Overall, these results suggest that tamarins use a specific suite of acoustic features for combination long-call recognition.
We present conventional magnetic resonance (MR) imaging with diffusion-weighted and diffusion-tensor imaging findings in a 10-day-old neonate with maple syrup urine disease (MSUD). On conventional MR imaging, signal abnormalities were noted in the affected white matter of cerebellum, dorsal brainstem, thalami, posterior limbs of internal capsules, and the corona radiata. These regions showed marked hyperintensity on diffusion-weighted images with decreased apparent diffusion coefficient values (average 68% reduction). Diffusion-tensor imaging showed decreased anisotropy (average 57% reduction) in the corresponding areas. Both diffusion-weighted and diffusion-tensor imaging are valuable in the diagnosis and understanding of the pathogenesis of MSUD, with findings that suggest cytotoxic edema and damaged oligodendro-axonal units within the affected white matter.
Jugular catheters were inserted in nine male rats under general isofluorane anesthesia and the catheters were connected to a commercially available computerized blood sampling device (Accusampler). Blood samples (150 microl) were collected every 4 h during the first 24 h after surgery and every 12 h during the following 72 h until 94 h after surgery, when the animals were killed. All fecal pellets were collected at blood sampling. Serum corticosterone and fecal concentrations of immunoreactive corticosterone metabolites and immunoglobulin A (IgA) were quantified by ELISAs. In blood, high corticosterone concentrations (&gt;200 ng/ml) were recorded in the first samples obtained after surgery, but the concentrations decreased steadily during the day and became cyclical, showing a diurnal variation with high levels during evenings and low levels in the mornings. The automatic blood sampling itself did not result in recordable increases in serum corticosterone concentrations. The time delay between the presence of elevated corticosterone levels in blood and in feces was approximately 12 h. Fecal immunoreactive corticosterone metabolite levels remained elevated during the 94 h study period after surgery. The fecal concentrations of IgA showed substantial between-animal variation and decreased non-significantly after the surgery. Like serum corticosterone, fecal IgA showed a diurnal variation in amounts excreted, in this case with high values in the morning and low values in the evening. The concentrations of fecal corticosterone and IgA were negatively correlated in samples obtained before surgery but no correlation existed after surgery. This indicates that fecal immunoreactive corticosterone metabolites, but not IgA, constitute a good marker of acute stress. For immunoreactive corticosterone metabolites as well as for IgA, the concentration in feces correlated well with total excretion, making single fecal samplings usable as a measure of total secretion.
The anterior pituitary is active mitotically and apoptotically under basal conditions and in response to a variety of physiological and pathophysiological stimuli. Hypothyroidism in man is associated with a modest but very occasionally dramatic increase in overall pituitary size. The mechanisms underlying this reversible phenomenon remain obscure. In the present study we have examined young adult rat anterior pituitary following surgical thyroidectomy and subsequent thyroid hormone treatment and withdrawal using an extremely accurate system for quantifying directly identified mitotic and apoptotic events. Despite the expected increase in the number and/or proportion of immunohistochemically identifiable thyrotrophs three weeks after thyroidectomy, mitotic and apoptotic activity remained unchanged, as did pituitary wet weight, in comparison with sham-operated and intact controls. In contrast, mitotic but not apoptotic activity was enhanced by treatment of thyroidectomized animals with thyroid hormones (triiodothyronine (T3) and thyroxine (T4) 1.8 microg and 3.6 microg/100 g body weight per day respectively), and once again declined to levels seen in intact animals within 72 h of subsequent thyroid hormone withdrawal. Thyroid hormone-induced enhancement of mitotic activity was also seen in intact rats treated with similar doses of thyroid hormones for 7 days and in thyroidectomized rats treated for a similar period with very low dose thyroid hormone replacement at a level that had no effect on raised hypothalamic TRH- or pituitary TSHbeta-transcript prevalence (0.018 microg T3 plus 0.036 microg T4/100 g body weight per day). Thus changes in mitotic and apoptotic activity are unlikely to be the principle mechanism for the apparent increase in thyrotrophs up to 4 weeks after thyroidectomy. In contrast, the data indicate that thyroid hormones have a permissive effect on anterior pituitary mitotic activity in thyroidectomized male rats. Thyroid hormone-induced enhancement of mitotic activity in intact rats further suggests that in euthyroid rats, ambient thyroid hormone levels are a limiting factor for anterior pituitary mitotic activity. In summary, this time course study of young, male rats has shown for the first time that thyroidectomy, thyroid hormone replacement and subsequent withdrawal has no significant effect on anterior pituitary apoptotic activity. Secondly, it has shown that the anterior pituitary mitotic response to thyroidectomy is blocked by complete thyroid hormone deprivation, but can be restored by very low level thyroid hormone replacement, and thirdly that in intact animals thyroid hormone levels significantly limit anterior pituitary mitotic activity.
Sjgren's syndrome (SS) is an autoimmune epithelitis characterized by lymphocytic infiltration of exocrine glands and epithelia in multiple sites. One third of the patients present with peripheral nervous system involvement. We describe the case of a woman aged 62 affected by a peroneal nerve mononeuropathy with painful disturbances secondary to a prevalent involvement of small fibers as demonstrated by electrophysiological investigations and skin biopsy. Asymmetric peripheral nerve involvement is not uncommon in SS, though, to our knowledge, it has never been reported of a mononeuropathy involving primarily small fibers.
Regulation of the hypothalamic-pituitary-thyroid (HPT) axis is dependent upon the secretion of thyrotropin-releasing hormone (TRH), a tripeptide originating in the hypothalamic paraventricular nucleus (PVN). These so-called hypophysiotropic neurons are under feedback inhibition by circulating levels of thyroid hormone, mediated through interactions with the beta2 thyroid hormone receptor (TRbeta2) and competition with the phosphorylated form of cyclic adenosine 5'-monophosphate response element binding protein (CREB) for a multifunctional binding site in the TRH gene. The non-thyroidal illness syndrome, characterized by low circulating thyroid hormone levels yet suppression of TRH gene expression in hypophysiotropic neurons, is due to alteration in the regulatory factors that modulate TRH gene expression to result in central hypothyroidism. These factors include alpha melanocyte-stimulating hormone (alphaMSH) and cocaine- and amphetamine-regulated transcript (CART), and agouti-related protein (AGRP) and neuropeptide Y (NPY), substances co-produced by distinct populations of leptin-responsive neurons in the hypothalamic arcuate nucleus. Through monosynaptic projections from arcuate nucleus neurons to hypophysiotropic TRH neurons, these factors contribute to suppression of HPT axis during fasting and starvation by exerting opposing actions on the TRH gene, altering the sensitivity for feedback inhibition by thyroid hormone. In contrast, central hypothyroidism associated with infection may be due to upregulation of type 2 deiodinase activity in tanycytes, specialized glial cells that line the infralateral walls and floor of the third ventricle. Through tanycyte-cerebrospinal fluid, -vascular or -neuronal associations, these cells may lead to inhibition of TRH gene expression in hypophysiotropic neurons by increasing local triiodothyronine production.
Ghrelin, a peptide predominantly produced by the stomach, has been discovered as natural ligand of the growth hormone secretagogue receptor (GHS-R) type 1a. More recently, ghrelin attracted enormous interest as new orexigenic factor. However, ghrelin exerts several other neuroendocrine, metabolic and also non-endocrine actions (e.g. cardiovascular activities) that are explained by the widespread distribution of ghrelin and GHS-R expression. The existence of GHS-R subtypes and evidence that neuroendocrine but not all other ghrelin actions are dependent on acylation in serine 3 add further complexity to the system whose major physiological role remains to be definitely clarified. What we are learning from the studies about the control of ghrelin secretion is that it is mostly under metabolic control; the most important impact of ghrelin would, in turn, be metabolic. However, a recent study states that the ghrelin knockout (KO) mouse is not anorectic dwarf and this evidence clearly depicts a remarkable difference from the leptin KO mouse. Nevertheless, the original and fascinating ghrelin story as well as its potential pathophysiological implications in endocrinology and internal medicine are not definitely canceled by this evidence. Besides potential clinical implications for natural or synthetic ghrelin analogues acting as agonists or antagonists, open questions that are waiting for an answer are: how many are the ghrelin receptors? Is ghrelin the or a GHS ligand, i.e. are there other natural GHS-R ligands? Is there a functional balance between acylated and unacylated ghrelin forms that would play different actions? Within the next years these questions will find the appropriate answer and we'll know about the ghrelin system something more precise; this knowledge will more appropriately clarify the potential clinical perspectives.
The purpose of this brief review is to highlight recent studies from our laboratory and collaborators based on the analysis of novel strains of mutant mice that further our understanding of the complex regulatory roles of proopiomelanocortin (POMC) neurons and POMC peptides in energy homeostasis. Mouse models that are considered include a transgenic strain with expression of enhanced green fluorescent protein in POMC neurons, facilitating analyses of the cell intrinsic membrane and synaptic properties, and two gene knockout strains exhibiting either a selective absence of beta-endorphin production or a complete loss of all POMC peptides from the pituitary gland and nervous system. Together these studies demonstrate the wide variety of hormonal, metabolic, and transsynaptic signals that converge on the arcuate hypothalamic nucleus and nucleus tractus solitarius to regulate the activity of POMC neurons. Both melanocortin peptides and the opioid beta-endorphin processed from POMC mediate the homeostatic and behavioral responses linked to POMC neuronal circuits.
Some 30 years ago we proposed that the synthesis of the hypothalamic releasing factors (RFs) might be influenced by changes of their own titers in the general circulation and in the hypothalamus. At that time the dominating concept was that there were two different hypothalamic RFs controling respectively follicle-stimulating hormone (FSHRF) and luteinizing hormone (LHRF). The possible existence of the first &quot;ultrashort&quot; feedback system was proposed on the basis of the observation that in male rats castrated, to eliminate the &quot;long&quot; feedback effect of testosterone, and then hypophysectomized, to abolish the possible &quot;short&quot; feedback effect of pituitary hormones on the hypothalamus, the intrahypothalamic levels of FSHRF resulted to be higher than in controls. Following a treatment with an hypothalamic extract, the intrahypothalamic stores of FSHRF returned to pre-operation levels, suggesting that a factor present in the hypothalamic extract might exert an inhibitory influence on the synthesis of FSHRF. In 1987, we confirmed these findings using an in vitro perfusion system of rat hypothalamic tissue, where the amount of gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH) released was measured in the effluent. When a GnRH analog was added to the perfusion medium, both the spontaneous and the stimulated release of GnRH were totally obliterated. The presence of specific binding sites for GnRH has been clearly demonstrated in GnRH neurons. It is becoming consequently attractive the hypothesis that paracrine interactions might occur among GnRH neurons, entertaining an &quot;ultrashort&quot; feedback control of GnRH secretion.
Bacterial endotoxins such as Escherichia coli lipopolysaccharide (LPS) bind to specific Toll-like receptors in fixed and circulating immunocompetent cells and activate the sympathetic and pituitary-adrenal system through similar receptors in cells that form the blood-brain interface. The latter, in turn, lead to the formation, within the brain, of proinflammatory cytokines including interleukin (IL)-1alpha, IL-1beta, IL-6, tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF-alpha), and one or more antinflammatory cytokines including tumor growth factor beta (TGF-beta), and IL-10. Although the full panoply of central cytokines can be activated after systemic exposure, direct introduction of IL-1beta into the brain exerts a unique pattern of peripheral immune responses attributable to the special properties of reactive cells within the brain and to the &quot;reservoir&quot; function of the cerebrospinal fluid compartment. De Simoni et al. were the first to show that the intracerebroventricular (icv) injection of IL-1beta in rats induced a dramatic increase in the concentration of circulating IL-6 that was much greater and more prolonged than that induced by intravenous bolus injection of the same dose of cytokine. The work reported in this paper shows that the &quot;De Simoni paradox&quot; is mainly due to the prolonged release of the injected IL-1beta from brain to blood: a large proportion is not degraded (86%), transport out is both active and passive, and the initial exposure to IL-1beta sensitizes peripheral responses to the continuing exposure to the cytokine. Although IL-6, TNF-alpha and LPS are passively transferred from brain to blood (as shown by radioiodine-labeled tracer studies) peripheral cytokine responses to central injection differ from responses to IL-1beta. Peripheral responses to central TNF-alpha are similar to those after peripheral administration because TNF-alpha has no peripheral sensitizing effect. Peripheral response to central LPS exposure is much less than that which occurs when an amount identical with that transferred from brain to blood is administered peripherally. This is due to the fact that intracerebral injection of LPS suppresses response to peripherally administered endotoxin. Since the effect can still be demonstrated in adrenalectomized animals maintained on a constant dose of corticosterone, the brain has the capacity by as yet undefined mechanisms to suppress peripheral inflammatory responses.
The neuroendocrine system (NES) of Vertebrates can be defined as a set of cells organized in single organs and diffuse elements, sharing co-production of amine hormone/transmitters, peptide hormone/transmitters and specific markers of neural determination. In this perspective, the hypothalamic-pituitary-target organ axis (H-P axis), the autonomic nervous system (ANS) and the diffuse neuroendocrine or APUD system contribute to the NES. However, in Mammals and man virtually any compartment of the body harbors elements, often with different embryologic origin, having at least some of the NES features. Thus, all anatomical structures may be part of a wide functional circuitry, based on &quot;internal secretions&quot;, that supersedes the current view of the NES. Historically, metaphysical antecedents of this concept can be found in the biomedical tradition dealing with the idea of the so called &quot;vital energy&quot;. Currently, the &quot;internal secretions&quot; circuitry can be envisaged as an informational supersystem encompassing the H-P axis, ANS, APUD, immune and any other body system performing autocrine, paracrine and/or endocrine regulations, that superintends the homeostatic balance. Evolutionary evidence shows that diffuse autocrine/paracrine/endocrine, peptidergic secretions would be the oldest and hierachically simplest signals, with respect to the later and hierarchically more complex ANS and H-P axis outputs, to regulate body homeostasis. Therefore, the new acronym &quot;Triune Information Network&quot; (TIN) is proposed for the informational supersystem of internal secretions acting in Mammals and man via progressively higher levels of control (diffuse autocrine/paracrine/endocrine secretions, ANS and H-P axis) on a common energetic substrate: the internal body milieu.
In 1939 Alan Turing, a major scholar in the field of mechanical computation, described a system whose computational power was beyond that of a discrete, finite state machine (Turing Machine). The composition of this system was likely the first example of what is now called an hybrid computational system. Since then, development of neural networks and brain automata has made aware that forms of computation might exist that are likely to go beyond Turing's limits. Natural systems, like the central nervous system in Mammals and man, are likely to use such a type of computation, especially to perform highly integrating activities, like feedback controls and mental creative processes. The latter are usually understood as processes that involve infinitary procedures, ending up in a complex information network, the computational maps, in which both digital, Turing-like computation and continuous, analog forms of calculus are expected to occur. Pictorial representation may be a fruitful example, mostly metaphorical, to analyze the use of this hybrid forms of computation by higher order computational maps, and the possible role of these types of computational processes in painting creativity is briefly analyzed in comparing 15th vs 16th century Renaissance Art. An open challenge for neuroscience in the 21st century is to clarify whether a hybrid neural learning network might represent a reasonable clue to scientifically interpret the theme of &quot;creativity&quot;.
The phenomenon of endotoxin tolerance has been widely investigated, but to date, the molecular mechanisms of endotoxin tolerance remain to be resolved clearly. The discovery of the Toll-like receptor (TLR) family as the major receptors for lipopolysaccharide (LPS) and other bacterial products has prompted a resurgence of interest in endotoxin tolerance mechanisms. Changes of cell surface molecules, signaling proteins, pro-inflammatory and anti-inflammatory cytokines and other mediators have been examined. During tolerance expression of LPS-binding protein (LBP), CD14, myeloid differentiation protein-2 (MD-2) and TLR2 are unchanged or up-regulated, whereas TLR4 is transiently suppressed or unchanged. Proximal post-receptor signaling proteins that are altered in tolerance include augmented degradation of interleukin-1 receptor-associated kinase (IRAK), and decreased TLR4-myeloid differentiation factor 88 (MyD88) and IRAK-MyD88 association. Tolerance has also been shown to be associated with decreased Gi protein content and activity, decreased protein kinase C (PKC) activity, reduction in mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAP kinase) activity, and reduced activator protein-1 (AP-1) and nuclear factor kappa B (NF-kappaB) induced gene transactivation. However, not all signaling proteins and pathways are suppressed in tolerance and induction of specific anti-inflammatory proteins and signaling pathways may serve important counter inflammatory functions. The latter include induction of IRAK-M and suppressor of cytokine-signaling-1 (SOCS-1), phosphoinositide-3-kinase (PI3K) signaling, and increased or maintained expression of inhibitor-kappaB (IkappaB) isoforms. Also at the nuclear level, increase in the NF-kappaB subunit p50 homodimer expression and increased activation of peroxisome-proliferator-activated receptors-gamma (PPARgamma) have been linked to tolerance phenotype. Although there are species and cellular variations in manifestation of the LPS tolerant phenotype, it is clear that the tolerance phenomena have evolved as a complex orchestrated counter regulatory response to inflammation.
This study examined numerosity comparison in 3-year-old children. Predictions derived from the analog numerical model and the object-file model were contrasted by testing the effects of size and ratio between numerosities to be compared. Different perceptual controls were also introduced to evaluate the hypothesis that comparison by preschoolers is based on correlated perceptual variables rather than on number per se. Finally, the relation between comparison performance and verbal counting knowledge was investigated. Results showed no evidence that preschoolers use an analog number magnitude or an object-file mechanism to compare numerosities. Rather, their inability to compare sets controlled for surface area suggests that they rely on perceptual cues. Furthermore, the development of numerosity-based representations seems to be related to some understanding of the cardinality concept.


TRPV1 ion channels mediate the response to painful heat, extracellular acidosis, and capsaicin, the pungent extract from plants in the Capsicum family (hot chili peppers) (Szallasi, A., and P.M. Blumberg. 1999. Pharmacol. Rev. 51:159-212; Caterina, M.J., and D. Julius. 2001. Annu. Rev. Neurosci. 24:487-517). The convergence of these stimuli on TRPV1 channels expressed in peripheral sensory nerves underlies the common perceptual experience of pain due to hot temperatures, tissue damage and exposure to capsaicin. TRPV1 channels are nonselective cation channels (Caterina, M.J., M.A. Schumacher, M. Tominaga, T.A. Rosen, J.D. Levine, and D. Julius. 1997. Nature. 389:816-824). When activated, they produce depolarization through the influx of Na+, but their high Ca2+ permeability is also important for mediating the response to pain. In particular, Ca2+ influx is thought to be required for the desensitization to painful sensations over time (Cholewinski, A., G.M. Burgess, and S. Bevan. 1993. Neuroscience. 55:1015-1023; Koplas, P.A., R.L. Rosenberg, and G.S. Oxford. 1997. J. Neurosci. 17:3525-3537). Here we show that in inside-out excised patches from TRPV1 expressed in Xenopus oocytes and HEK 293 cells, Ca2+/calmodulin decreased the capsaicin-activated current. This inhibition was not mimicked by Mg2+, reflected a decrease in open probability, and was slowly reversible. Furthermore, increasing the calmodulin concentration in our patches by coexpression of wild-type calmodulin with TRPV1 produced inhibition by Ca2+ alone. In contrast, patches excised from cells coexpressing TRPV1 with a mutant calmodulin did not respond to Ca2+. Using an in vitro calmodulin-binding assay, we found that TRPV1 in oocyte lysates bound calmodulin, although in a Ca2+-independent manner. Experiments with GST-fusion proteins corresponding to regions of the channel NH2-terminal domain demonstrated that a stretch of approximately 30 amino acids adjacent to the first ankyrin repeat bound calmodulin in a Ca2+-dependent manner. The physiological response to pain involves an influx of Ca2+ through TRPV1. Our results indicate that this Ca2+ influx may feed back on the channels, inhibiting their gating. This type of feedback inhibition could play a role in the desensitization produced by capsaicin.
The mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) G13513A mutation in the ND5 subunit gene has been recently reported as a common cause of some phenotypes of mitochondrial myopathy. Until now, the prevalence and characteristics of this mutation in Leigh syndrome (LS) has not been determined. We screened 84 patients with Leigh syndrome (LS) and found the mutation in six (7%) of them. The proportions of mutant mtDNA in muscles were relatively low (42-70%). The onset of symptoms for patients with this mutation was from 9 months to 5 years. It should be noted that five patients had cardiac conduction abnormalities, particularly Wolff-Parkinson-White (WPW) syndrome (three patients). This study suggests that G13513A mutation is a frequent cause of LS and that patients with this mutation may have a characteristic clinical course.
Glutaric aciduria type I is an inborn error of metabolism due to the deficiency of glutaryl-CoA dehydrogenase, an enzyme responsible for the catabolism of lysine, hydroxylysine and tryptophan. The most important neurological symptoms include dyskinesia and dystonia, which can be focal, segmental or generalized. Treatment of the extrapyramidal syndrome is often unsatisfactory. We report our experience in the treatment of generalized and focal dystonia with anticholinergic drugs and botulinum toxin type A, respectively. Both therapies proved beneficial.
As many as 66% of systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) patients have been reported to have cognitive deficits. These deficits are often associated with information processing speed and working memory. Similarly, processing speed and working memory impairments are the hallmark of cognitive dysfunction in multiple sclerosis (MS). The Paced Auditory Serial Addition Test (PASAT) places high demands on processing speed and working memory. Fisk and Archibald, however, demonstrated that the total score of the PASAT does not accurately reflect impairments in these cognitive processes. They found that MS patients used a chunking strategy to obtain correct responses and reduce the cognitive demands of the task. In the present study, PASAT performance was examined for 45 SLE patients and 27 controls using alternative scoring procedures. Although the total number of correct responses did not differ between SLE and controls at the 2.4 or 2.0 s presentation rates, SLE patients had fewer dyads (correct consecutive responses) than controls at the faster rate, and more chunking responses than controls at both rates. Disease activity, disease duration, depression, fatigue, and corticosteroids could not account for these differences. The findings suggest that SLE patients, like MS patients, chunk responses more often than controls, and that this scoring procedure may better reflect the working memory and processing speed deficits present in SLE.
Lipids have long been recognized as quantitatively minor components of the nucleus, where they were initially thought to have little functional importance; but they now command growing interest, with recognition of their diverse signaling and modulating properties in that organelle. This applies to the lipid-poor compartments of the nucleoplasm as well as the relatively lipid-rich nuclear envelope. Phosphoglycerides and sphingomyelin, as the predominant lipids, have attracted the most interest among researchers, but some of the less-abundant lipids such as gangliosides, sphingosine, and sphingosine phosphate are now becoming recognized as functionally important nuclear constituents. Among recent advances in this emerging field are detailed findings on the metabolic enzymes that synthesize and catabolize nuclear lipids; the fact that these are localized primarily within the nucleus itself indicates considerable autonomy with respect to lipid metabolism. Current studies suggest several key processes involving RNA and DNA reactivity that are dependent on these lipid-initiated events. Neural cell nuclei have been the subject of such investigations, with results that closely parallel the more numerous studies on nuclei of extraneural cells. This review attempts to outline some of the major findings on nuclear lipids of diverse cell types; results with nonneural nuclei will hopefully provide useful guideposts to further studies of neural systems.

The Y receptors comprise a family of G-protein coupled receptors with neuropeptide Y-family peptides as endogenous ligands. The Y receptor family has five members in mammals and evolutionary data suggest that it diversified in the two genome duplications proposed to have occurred early in vertebrate evolution. If this theory holds true, it allows for additional family members to be present. We describe here the cloning, pharmacological characterization, tissue distribution, and chromosomal localization of a novel subtype of the Y-receptor family, named Y7, from the zebrafish. We also present Y7 sequences from rainbow trout and two amphibians. The new receptor is most similar to Y2, with 51-54% identity. As Y2 has also been cloned from some of these species, there clearly are two separate Y2-subfamily genes. Chromosomal mapping in zebrafish supports origin of Y7 as a duplicate of Y2 by chromosome duplication in an early vertebrate. Y7 has probably been lost in the lineage leading to mammals. The pharmacological profile of the zebrafish Y7 receptor is different from mammalian Y2, as it does not bind short fragments of NPY with a high affinity. The Y7 receptor supports the theory of early vertebrate genome duplications and suggests that the Y family of receptors is a result of these early genome duplications.
The rationale behind the use of cells as therapeutic modalities for neurodegenerative diseases in general, and in Parkinson's disease (PD) in particular, is that they will improve patient's functioning by replacing the damaged cell population. It is reasoned that these cells will survive, grow neurites, establish functional synapses, integrate best and durably with the host tissue mainly in the striatum, renew the impaired wiring, and lead to meaningful clinical improvement. To increase the generation of dopamine, researchers have already transplanted non-neuronal cells, without any genetic manipulation or after introduction of genes such as tyrosine hydroxylase, in animal models of PD. Because these cells were not of neuronal origin, they developed without control, did not integrate well into the brain parenchyma, and their survival rates were low. Clinical experiments using cell transplantation as a therapy for PD have been conducted since the 1980s. Most of these experiments used fetal dopaminergic cells originating in the ventral mesencephalic tissue obtained from fetuses. Although it was shown that the transplanted cells survived and some patients benefited from this treatment, others suffered from severe dyskinesia, probably caused by the graft's excessive and uncontrolled production and release of dopamine. It is now recognized that cell-replacement strategy will be effective in PD only if the transplanted cells have the same abilities, such as dopamine synthesis and control release, reuptake, and metabolizing dopamine, as the original dopaminergic neurons. Recent studies on embryonic and adult stem cells have demonstrated that cells are able to both self-renew and produce differentiated tissues, including dopaminergic neurons. These new methods offer real hope for tissue replacement in a wide range of diseases, especially PD. In this review we summarize the evidence of dopaminergic neuron generation from embryonic and adult stem cells, and discuss their application for cell therapy in PD.
Parkinson's disease (PD) and dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB) are members of a family of disorders characterized by the presence of inclusion bodies, or Lewy bodies (LBs), filled with aggregates of alpha-synuclein. These diseases are a leading cause of movement disorders and dementia in the aging population, and it is crucial to understand the factors leading to the accumulation and assembly of these alpha-synuclein aggregates. Previous studies have uncovered much about the factors leading to aggregation and the mechanisms causing neurotoxicity of these inclusion bodies; however, little is known about factors that promote the degradation and prevent the aggregation of alpha-synuclein. The present article provides a review of recent efforts in the investigation of factors involved in alpha-synuclein metabolism and the mechanisms involved in preventing accumulation of alpha-synuclein and degrading this molecule. Understanding these processes might provide targets for the development of novel therapies for disorders such as DLB and PD.
Lewy body disease (LBD) refers to a heterogeneous group of disorders presenting with parkinsonism and Lewy body (LB) formation. Although the relationship between dementing syndromes with LBs, Parkinson's disease, and Alzheimer's disease is unclear, the former constitute a common form of degenerative dementia and may account for up to 20% of cases in the elderly. We recently demonstrated triplication of the alpha-synuclein gene as the cause of disease in the Spellman-Muenter kindred. Neuropathological examination of affected members of the kindred demonstrated extensive LB pathology consistent with diffuse LBD. We examined a large collection of pathologically confirmed LBD cases and found no evidence for multiplication of the alpha-synuclein gene, suggesting that this mechanism is not a common cause of LBD.

The responses of brain metabolism and blood flow to stimulation are diminished in the dorsolateral prefrontal cortexes (DLPFCs) of schizophrenic patients. Reductions in mitochondrial enzymes underlie diminished metabolism in several neurodegenerative diseases. Thus, we tested whether reductions in selected mitochondrial enzymes could underlie the changes in schizophrenia. The activities of the pyruvate dehydrogenase complex (PDHC), aconitase, isocitrate dehydrogenase (ICDH), and the alpha-ketoglutarate dehydrogenase complex (KGDHC) were determined on DLPFCs from patients with schizophrenia (n=26) and normal nonpsychiatric disease controls (n=13). The enzyme activities (mU/mg protein; mean +/- SEM) were similar (values for controls and schizophrenic patients, respectively) for PDHC (11.36 +/-1.5, 10.33 +/- 0.8), aconitase (1.06 +/- 0.1, 1.35 +/- 0.2), ICDH (31.70 +/- 2.7, 32.00 +/- 2.6), and KGDHC (2.62 +/- 0.4, 3.09 +/- 0.3). Separate analyses of the patients matched for age or postmortem interval gave similar conclusions. Cognitive dementia rating scores correlated poorly with activities of PDHC, aconitase, ICDH, and KGDHC. In one schizophrenic patient, activity of aconitase was undetectable, and in two others KGDHC activity was very low. Both had low activities of ICDH. A reduced activity of these enzymes in a subgroup is consistent with other data, suggesting that some patients with schizophrenia have abnormalities in brain mitochondria. However, in schizophrenia, unlike a number of neurodegenerative diseases, reductions in the activities of the key mitochondrial enzymes KGDHC and PDHC are not frequent.
Functional interactions between adenosine A2A and dopamine D2 receptors have been demonstrated both at the D2 agonist-binding and second messenger levels. The present studies use a [3H]dopamine-binding assay as a sensitive measure of A2A receptor-mediated modulation of D2 receptors. Co-incubation with an A2A receptor agonist increased the Kd value of high-affinity [3H]dopamine-binding sites of the D2 receptor without changing their Bmax values in a cotransfected cell line. This interaction was shown to be subtype specific, as the A2A receptor agonist did not modulate the affinity of the D1 receptor for [3H]dopamine. The domains of the D2 receptor important for the A2A/D2 receptor interaction were studied with chimeric dopamine D2/D1 receptors. The results showed that the A2A receptor agonist still strongly reduced the affinity of a D2/D1 chimera with the sixth transmembrane (TM) domain and third extracellular loop from the D1 receptor. However, the A2A receptor agonist was not able to modulate a D2/D1 chimeric receptor containing the fifth and sixth TM domains and the third intracellular and extracellular loops from the D1 receptor, indicating that the fifth TM domain and/or the third intracellular loop may be involved in the interaction between A2A and D2 receptors.
Susceptibility to the development of Alzheimer's disease (AD) is increased for individuals harboring one or more apolipoprotein E4 (apoE4) alleles. Even though several isoform-specific effects of apoE have been identified, the relationship between biochemical function and risk factor assessment remains unknown. Our previous studies have demonstrated that there is an equilibrium between cerebral spinal fluid (CSF) and plasma beta-amyloid (Abeta) and that amyloid plaques can modify this equilibrium. Trafficking of soluble central nervous system (CNS) Abeta is a very dynamic system that almost certainly is modulated by Abeta-binding proteins. Altered trafficking of the Abeta peptide might have a dramatic consequence as to whether the peptide is metabolized or begins to deposit within the brain. To gain a better understanding of the molecular mechanisms by which apoE influences AD pathogenesis and/or Abeta trafficking, we developed PDAPP transgenic mice that express different levels of human apoE3. Analysis of the soluble CNS pools of Abeta in young mice showed an apoE3 dose-dependent decrease in Abeta levels (E3-/- &gt; E3-/- &gt; E3+/+). In addition to the dose-dependent effects on soluble Abeta, by 15 mo of age there were highly significant differences in the amount of deposited Abeta between the genotypes (E3-/- &gt; E3-/- &gt; E3+/+). These data indicate that apoE3 provides a dose-dependent protective effect against Abeta deposition. This study suggests that increasing human apoE levels in brain might be a possible therapeutic target for preventing AD.
Extracellular accumulation of amyloid-beta (Abeta) peptide and death of neurons in brain regions involved in learning and memory, particularly the cortex and the hippocampus, are central features of Alzheimer's disease (AD). Neuronal Ca2+ overload and apoptosis are known to occur in AD. Abeta might play a role in disrupting Ca2+ homeostasis, and this AD-associated amyloidogenic peptide has been reported to induce apoptotic death in cultured cells. However, the specific intracellular signaling pathways by which Abeta triggers cell death are not yet well defined. This article provides evidence for the involvement of mitochondrial dysfunction in Abeta-induced toxicity and for the role of mitochondria in apoptosis triggered by Abeta. In addition, the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) seems to play a role in Abeta-induced apoptotic neuronal death, the ER stress being mediated by the perturbation of ER Ca2+ homeostasis. It is likely that a better understanding of how Abeta induces neuronal apoptosis will lead to the identification of potential molecular targets for the development of therapies for AD.
Kalirin is a multidomain guanine nucleotide exchange factor for small GTPbinding proteins of the Rho family. It is expressed in multiple isoforms that contain different combinations of functional domains and display a complex pattern of expression during brain development. In addition to the isoforms generated through alternative splicing, we have identified multiple transcriptional start sites in rats and humans. These multiple transcriptional start sites result in full-length Kalirin transcripts possessing different 5' ends encoding proteins with differing amino termini. These alternative first exons display different patterns of expression in developing rats and humans and in cultured cells. Most of these alternate first exons lie &gt;100 kb upstream of exon 2 in both rats and humans. Comparisons of the rat and human Kalirin promoter regions reveal numerous shared potential regulatory elements.
In the past recent years, basic science work and initial clinical trials have provided starting evidence that stem cells are of potential value for treatment of certain human diseases, where they could help to regenerate tissues which are defective because of either genetic or acquired diseases. This area represents an emerging field of biomedicine based on a series of new discoveries in the field of stem cell biology and developmental biology that have made possible to isolate and expand stem cells from many human tissues. Additional evidence has also revealed the role of tissue environment that, by releasing a complex mixture of cytokines and growth factors, can influence the recruitment and functional integration of stem cells into specific organs. However, there is an urgent need for more advancement in basic biology of stem cells and related topics, which will be instrumental for the implementation of stem cell-based therapy at the clinical level, as treatment accessibility will depend on the acquisition of sufficient knowledge to develop adequate technologies to produce sufficient cell numbers and to drive their differentiating potentials.
Investigations concerning cognitive functions in early PD have revealed memory and executive function deficits related to dysfunction of fronto-striatal circuitry. Despite the range of data base, many previous investigations are limited because of methodological questions and inconsistencies. Thus the pattern of executive function impairments in early PD is far from being established. In the present investigation, twenty PD patients in early stages of the disease were compared to control subjects on a comprehensive neuropsychological test battery, aiming to explore their cognitive profile across a range of executive subcomponents. Results revealed impairments with respect to initiation, reasoning and planning. In summary, the present investigation shows that PD is associated with a differential executive impairment pattern which is (partly) related to disease characteristics and affective variables.
Five major types of intermediate filament (IF) proteins are expressed in mature neurons: the three neurofilament proteins (NF-L, NF-M, and NF-H), alpha-internexin, and peripherin. While the differential expression of IF genes during embryonic development suggests potential functions of these proteins in axogenesis, none of the IF gene knockout experiments in mice caused gross developmental defects of the nervous system. Yet, deficiencies in neuronal IF proteins are not completely innocuous. Substantial developmental loss of motor axons was detected in mice lacking NF-L and in double knockout NF-M;NF-H mice, supporting the view of a role for IFs in axon stabilization. Moreover, the absence of peripherin resulted in approximately 30% loss of small sensory axons. Mice lacking NF-L had a scarcity of IF structures and exhibited a severe axonal hypotrophy, causing up to 50% reduction in conduction velocity, a feature that would be very detrimental for large animal species. Unexpectedly, the NF-M rather than NF-H protein turned out to be required for proper radial growth of large myelinated axons. Studies with transgenic mice suggest that some types of IF accumulations, reminiscent of those found in amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS), can have deleterious effects and even cause neurodegeneration. Additional evidence for the involvement of IFs in pathogenesis came from the recent discovery of neurofilament gene mutations linked to ALS and Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease (CMT2E). Conversely, we discuss how certain types of perikaryal neurofilament aggregates might confer protection in motor neuron disease.
Actin and microtubules are major cytoskeletal elements of most cells including neurons. In order for a cell to move and change shape, its cytoskeleton must undergo rearrangements that involve breaking down and reforming filaments. Many recent reviews have focused on the signaling pathways emanating from receptors that ultimately affect axon growth and growth cone steering. This particular review will address changes in the actin cytoskeleton modulated by the family of actin dynamizing proteins known as actin depolymerizing factor (ADF)/cofilin or AC proteins. Though much is known about inactivation of AC proteins through phosphorylation at ser3 by LIM or TES kinases, new mechanisms of regulation of AC have recently emerged. A novel phosphatase, slingshot (SSH), and the 14-3-3 family of regulatory proteins have also been found to affect AC activity. The potential role of AC proteins in modulating the actin organizational changes that accompany neurite initiation, axonogenesis, growth cone guidance, and dendritic spine formation will be discussed.
Guidance molecules steer growth cones to their targets by attracting or repelling them. Turning in a new direction requires remodeling of the growth cone and bending of the axon. This depends upon reorganization of actin filaments and microtubules, which are the primary cytoskeletal components of growth cones. This article discusses how these cytoskeletal components induce turning. The importance of each component as well as how interactions between them result in axon guidance is discussed. Current evidence shows that microtubules are influenced by both the organization and dynamics of actin filaments in the peripheral domain of growth cones. Cytoskeletal models for repulsive and attractive turning are presented. Molecular candidates that may link actin filaments with microtubules are suggested and potential signal transduction pathways that allow these cytoskeletal components to affect each other are discussed.
Glutamate excitotoxicity is implicated in the aetiology of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) with impairment of glutamate transport into astrocytes a possible cause of glutamate-induced injury to motor neurons. It is possible that mutations of Cu/Zn superoxide dismutase (SOD1), responsible for about 20% of familial ALS, down-regulates glutamate transporters via oxidative stress. We transfected primary mouse astrocytes to investigate the effect of the FALS-linked mutant hSOD1(G93A) and wild-type SOD1 (hSOD1wt) on the glutamate uptake system. Using western blotting, immunocytochemistry and RT-PCR it was shown that expression of either hSOD1(G93A) or hSOD1wt in astrocytes produced down-regulation of the levels of a glutamate transporter GLT-1, without alterations in its mRNA level. hSOD1(G93A) or hSOD1wt expression caused a decrease of the monomeric form of GLT-1 without increasing oxidative multimers of GLT-1. The effects were selective to GLT-1, since another glutamate transporter GLAST protein and mRNA levels were not altered. Reflecting the decrease in GLT-1 protein, [3H]d-aspartate uptake was reduced in cultures expressing hSOD1(G93A) or hSOD1wt. The hSOD1-induced decline in GLT-1 protein and [3H]d-aspartate uptake was not blocked by the antioxidant Trolox nor potentiated by antioxidant depletion using catalase and glutathione peroxidase inhibitors. Measurement of 2',7'-dichlorofluorescein (DCF)-induced fluorescence revealed that expression of hSOD1(G93A) or hSOD1wt in astrocytes does not lead to detectable increase of intracellular reactive oxygen species. This study suggests that levels of GLT-1 protein in astrocytes are reduced rapidly by overexpression of hSOD1, and is due to a property shared between the wild-type and G93A mutant form, but does not involve the production of intracellular oxidative stress.
Dopaminergic deficiency in the brain of zebrafish was produced by systemic administration of two catecholaminergic neurotoxins, 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA) and 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP), and the neurochemical and behavioural changes were characterized. The levels of dopamine and noradrenaline decreased significantly after the injection of MPTP and 6-OHDA. Corresponding to these changes, fish exhibited characteristic changes in locomotor behaviour, i.e. the total distance moved and velocity decreased after both neurotoxins. Tyrosine hydroxylase and caspase 3 protein levels were not altered after MPTP or 6-OHDA injections, as studied by immunohistochemistry and western blotting. The catecholaminergic cell clusters suggested to correspond to the mammalian nigrostriatal cell group displayed normal tyrosine hydroxylase immunoreactivity after the toxin treatment and did not show signs of DNA fragmentation that would indicate activation of cascades that lead to cell death. The results show that single systemic injections of MPTP and 6-OHDA induce both biochemical and behavioural changes in zebrafish, albeit failing to produce any significant morphological alteration in catecholaminergic cell clusters at the tested doses. This approach may be used for the screening of chemicals affecting the dopaminergic system. The model may be especially useful for evaluation of the role of novel genes in neurotoxicity, as a large number of zebrafish mutants are becoming available.
Methamphetamine is an addictive drug of abuse that can produce neurotoxic effects in dopamine nerve endings of the striatum. The purpose of this study was to identify new genes that may play a role in the highly complex cascade of events associated with methamphetamine intoxication. Using Affymetrix oligonucleotide arrays, 12 488 genes were simultaneously interrogated and there were 152 whose expression levels were changed following methamphetamine treatment. The genes are grouped into broad functional categories with inflammatory/immune response elements, receptor/signal transduction components and ion channel/transport proteins among the most populated. Many genes within these categories can be linked to ion regulation and apoptosis, both of which have been implicated in methamphetamine toxicity, and numerous factors associated with microglial activation emerged with significant changes in expression. For example, brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF), chemokine (C-C) receptor 6 (CCr6) and numerous chemokine transcripts were increased or decreased in expression more than 2.8-fold. These results point to activated microglia as a potential source of the reactive oxygen/nitrogen species and cytokines that have been previously associated with methamphetamine toxicity and other neurotoxic conditions.
Topiramate (TPM) is a structurally novel broad-spectrum anticonvulsant known to modulate the activity of several ligand- and voltage-gated ion channels in neurons. These include an inhibitory effect on the AMPA and kainate subtypes of glutamate receptors, mixed modulatory effects (usually positive) on some types of GABAA receptors, negative modulatory effects on some types of voltage-gated Na+ and Ca2+ channels, and a positive modulatory effect on at least one type of K+ channel. The nature of these effects at the molecular level has not been established, but two previous studies have implicated the phosphorylation state of these receptor/channel complexes as an influencing factor in the activity of TPM. Here, we report that the ability of TPM to inhibit a kainate-induced accumulation of free Ca2+ in cultured neurons from rat cerebral cortex is inversely related to the level of cAMP-dependent protein kinase (cAPK) mediated phosphorylation of kainate-activated receptors/channels. Specifically, when cell cultures were pre-treated with forskolin or dibutyryl cAMP, indirect activators of cAPK, the activity of TPM was abolished, whereas when the cells were pre-treated with H89, an inhibitor of cAPK, the relative activity of TPM was enhanced. The results of this study support the hypothesis that TPM binds to phosphorylation sites on AMPA and kainate receptors, but only in the dephosphorylated state and thereby exerts an allosteric modulatory effect on channel conductance.
We have characterized several potential stem cell markers and defined the membrane properties of rat fetal (E10.5) neural stem cells (NSC) by immunocytochemistry, electrophysiology and microarray analysis. Immunocytochemical analysis demonstrates specificity of expression of Sox1, ABCG2/Bcrp1, and shows that nucleostemin labels both progenitor and stem cell populations. NSCs, like hematopoietic stem cells, express high levels of aldehyde dehydrogenase (ALDH) as assessed by Aldefluor labeling. Microarray analysis of 96 transporters and channels showed that Glucose transporter 1 (Glut1/Slc2a1) expression is unique to fetal NSCs or other differentiated cells. Electrophysiological examination showed that fetal NSCs respond to acetylcholine and its agonists, such as nicotine and muscarine. NSCs express low levels of tetrodotoxin (TTX) sensitive and insensitive sodium channels and calcium channels while expressing at least three kinds of potassium channels. We find that gap junction communication is mediated by connexin (Cx)43 and Cx45, and is essential for NSC survival and proliferation. Overall, our results show that fetal NSCs exhibit a unique signature that can be used to determine their location and assess their ability to respond to their environment.
RGS (regulators of G-protein signaling) proteins comprise a large family that modulates heterotrimeric G-protein signaling. This protein family has a common RGS domain and functions as GTPase-activating proteins for the alpha-subunits of heterotrimeric G-proteins located at the plasma membrane. RGS8 was identified as a neuron-specific RGS protein, which belongs to the B/R4 subfamily. We previously showed that RGS8 protein was translocated to the plasma membrane from the nucleus on coexpression of GTPase-deficient Galphao (GalphaoQL). Here, we first examined which subtypes of Galpha can induce the translocation of RGS8. When the Galphai family was expressed, the translocation of RGS8 did occur. To investigate the mechanism of this translocation, we generated a mutant RGS8 with reduced affinity to Galphao and an RGS-insensitive (RGS-i) mutant of GalphaoQL. Co-expression experiments with both mutants revealed that disruption of the Galpha-RGS8 interaction abolished the membrane-translocation of RGS8 despite the apparent membrane localization of RGS-i GalphaoQL. These results demonstrated that RGS8 is recruited to the plasma membrane where G-proteins are activated mainly by direct association with Galpha.
Traumatic brain injury (TBI) disrupts tissue homeostasis resulting in pathological apoptotic activation. Recently, caspase-12 was reported to be induced and activated by the unfolded protein response following excess endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress. This study examined rat caspase-12 expression using the controlled cortical impact TBI model. Immunoblots of fractionalized cell lysates found elevated caspase-12 proform (approximately 60 kDa) and processed form (approximately 12 kDa), with peak induction observed within 24 h post-injury in the cortex (418% and 503%, respectively). Hippocampus caspase-12 proform induction peaked at 24 h post-injury (641%), while processed form induction peaked at 6 h (620%). Semi-quantitative reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) analysis confirmed elevated caspase-12 mRNA levels after TBI. Injury severity (1.0, 1.2 or 1.6 mm compression) was associated with increased caspase-12 mRNA expression, peaking at 5 days in the cortex (657%, 651% and 1259%, respectively) and 6 h in the hippocampus (435%, 451% and 460%, respectively). Immunohistochemical analysis revealed caspase-12 induction in neurons in both the cortex and hippocampus as well as in astrocytes at the contusion site. This is the first report of increased expression of caspase-12 following TBI. Our results suggest that the caspase-12-mediated ER apoptotic pathway may play a role in rat TBI pathology independent of the receptor- or mitochondria-mediated apoptotic pathways.
The zonal organization of the corticonuclear and the olivocerebellar climbing fiber projections to the vermis of the cerebellum of the rat was compared to the pattern of zebrin-positive and zebrin-negative bands in material double-stained for zebrin II and for different anterograde tracers injected in subnuclei of the inferior olive, or retrograde tracers injected in the cerebellar and vestibular target nuclei of the Purkinje cells of the vermis. Projection zones A(1), A(X), X, B, C(X) in the vermis and A(2) (accessory A zone) and C(2) in the hemisphere were defined by their efferent corticonuclear and their afferent climbing fiber connections, and were found to share the same topographical framework with the zebrin pattern.
This study evaluated several parameters related to mitochondrial function and oxidative stress in streptozotocin (STZ)-treated rats, a model of type 1 diabetes. For this purpose, the respiratory indexes (RCR and ADP/O ratio), mitochondrial transmembrane potential (DeltaPsim), repolarization lag phase, repolarization level, mitochondrial enzymatic activities, ATP and malondialdehyde (MDA) levels, reduced glutathione (GSH), vitamin E and cardiolipin contents were determined in rat brain mitochondria isolated after 4 and 9 weeks after STZ treatment. Brain mitochondria isolated from citrate (vehicle)-treated Wistar rats were used as control. We observed that STZ-induced diabetes did not substantially affect brain mitochondrial function. Instead, 4-week diabetic rats presented higher mitochondrial respiratory chain enzymatic activities, especially succinate-cytochrome C reductase activity, compared to 4-week control rats. In 9-week diabetic rats, only a significant decrease in cardiolipin content was observed; however, a significant increase in mitochondrial GSH content occurred. All other parameters analysed remained statistically unchanged. From these results, we conclude that STZ-induced diabetes did not promote brain mitochondrial dysfunction, suggesting that oxidative stress associated with type 1 diabetes is not directly related to mitochondrial dysfunction, but probably is related to extramitochondrial factor(s).
Brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) is involved as an autocrine factor in the regulation of the secretory activity of the neuroendocrine pituitary melanotrope cells of Xenopus laevis. We studied the subcellular distribution of BDNF in Xenopus melanotropes using a combination of high-pressure freezing, cryosubstitution and immunoelectron microscopy. Presence of BDNF, pro-opiomelanocortin (POMC) and alpha-melanophore-stimulating hormone (alphaMSH) within melanotrope secretory granules was studied by triple-labelling immunoelectron microscopy. In addition, intracellular processing of BDNF was investigated by quantifying the number of immunogold particles in different stages of secretory granule maturation, in animals adapted to black or white background light conditions. The high-pressure freezing technique provides excellent preservation of both cellular ultrastructure and antigenicity. BDNF coexists with POMC and alphaMSH within secretory granules. BDNF-immunoreactivity increases along the secretory granule maturation axis (i.e. from electron-dense, via moderately electron-dense, to electron-lucent secretory granules). Immature, low immunoreactive, electron-dense secretory granules are assumed to contain mainly or even exclusively proBDNF. Strongly immunoreactive electron-lucent secretory granules represent the mature granule stage in which proBDNF has been processed to mature BDNF. Furthermore, in moderately electron-dense secretory granules, immunoreactivity is markedly (+79%) higher in black-adapted than in white-adapted animals, indicating that stimulation of melanotrope cell activity by the black background condition speeds up processing of BDNF from its precursor in this granule stage. It is concluded that, in the Xenopus melanotrope, BDNF biosynthesis and processing occur along the secretory granule maturation axis, together with that of POMC-derived alphaMSH, and that the environmental light condition not only controls the biosynthesis and secretion of BDNF and of POMC end-products, but also regulates the rate of their intragranular processing.
The gland cells of the mammalian anterior pituitary are innervated by substantial amounts of nerve fibres, and there is evidence that the nerve fibres are functionally active. In the rat, the nerve fibres make typical excitatory synapses with corticotropes. The physiological significance of this synaptic relationship was investigated in the present study. The anterior pituitary of the rat was sliced and stimulated with electrical field in a chamber. The perfusate was continuously collected and immunoradioassayed for adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH). When the gland slices were stimulated at a high frequency of 10 Hz, there was a significant inhibition of ACTH secretion. Stimulation at a low frequency of 2 Hz resulted in a quick and transient excitation of ACTH release. The results indicate that stimulation of the nerve fibres in the anterior pituitary has dual excitatory and inhibitory effects on ACTH secretion.

Campylobacter jejuni lipopolysaccharides (LPS) are implicated in the development of autoantibodies to GM1 ganglioside in patients with neuropathy following C. jejuni infection. CjLPS bears oligosaccharides that are cross reactive with GM1 ganglioside and presumably exerts its effects via molecular mimicry. To study the mechanisms that are involved in development of the autoantibody response, a transgenic mouse line was developed that expresses an IgM anti-GM1 antibody derived from a patient with multifocal motor neuropathy (MMN). In vivo stimulation of the transgenic mice with C. jejuni lipopolysaccharides (CjLPS), but not of wild-type mice readily elicited high serum titers of anti-GM1 IgM antibodies, followed by IgG anti-GM1 antibodies after two booster injections. In in vitro experiments, CjLPS stimulated the transgenic B-cells at lower concentration than control LPS. The increased sensitivity to CjLPS and the induction of IgG anti-GM1 by CjLPS but not control LPS are consistent with a mechanism of B-cell activation that involves both the LPS and the antigen-specific surface Ig receptors, with possible participation of T-cells.
Mutations in the DJ-1 gene have recently been shown to cause autosomal recessive Parkinson's disease. To estimate the prevalence of this mutation, an analysis was undertaken of 39 index cases of Parkinson's disease in whom a family history suggested autosomal recessive inheritance. No DJ-1 mutations were found in these patients, indicating that this gene is unlikely to be of numerical significance in clinical practice. The hypothesis was also tested that young onset Parkinson's disease patients in whom, despite extensive analysis, only a single heterozygous parkin mutation was found, might harbour a second mutation in the DJ-1 gene--that is, digenic inheritance. No patient was found with a single mutation in both DJ-1 and parkin genes, making this mode of inheritance unlikely. Finally it was confirmed that PARK6 and PARK7 (DJ-1), despite being phenotypically similar and mapping to the same small chromosomal region of 1p36, are caused by mutations in separate genes.

The syndrome of hemispatial neglect is characterised by reduced awareness of stimuli on one side of space, even though there may be no sensory loss. Although it is extremely common, it has proven to be a challenging condition to understand, and to treat. New insights from detailed behavioural and anatomical studies in patients, as well as functional imaging in healthy individuals, have begun to reveal some of the component deficits underlying the disorder. This review focuses on important clinical issues in neglect, including bedside diagnostic tests and emerging therapeutic and rehabilitation methods, involving both behavioural and drug treatments.
We tested the hypothesis that transient, partial inhibition of the Na,K-pumps could produce lasting effects on synaptic efficacy in brain tissue by applying a low concentration of the ouabain analogue, dihydroouabain (DHO), to hippocampal slices for 15 min and studying the effects on field excitatory postsynaptic potentials (fEPSPs). DHO caused a suppression of fEPSPs during the application period, but this recovered only partially, to approximately 80% of control levels, after washout lasting as long as 2 h. The lasting suppression had several properties in common with low-frequency stimulation induced long-term depression (LFS-LTD), including an ability to depotentiate long-term potentiated responses. However, DHO-LTD was insensitive to blockade of N-methyl-d-aspartate or mGlu receptors or to inhibitors of protein kinase C or p38 MAP kinase. DHO-LTD did not co-occlude with LFS-LTD and therefore appears to represent a novel form of LTD. Interestingly, DHO-LTD could be prevented by pretreating slices with iberiotoxin, the selective blocker of large, Ca(2+)-dependent K+ channels (&quot;big K,&quot; BK channels), although this toxin did not affect basal fEPSPs. Certain pathological conditions, including hypoxia and ischemia, are associated with a decrease in Na,K-pump activity and hence DHO-LTD may serve as a model for the effects on neuronal function in these conditions.
Hippocampal network activity oscillates between sustained rhythms (e.g., theta) and aperiodic population spikes (e.g., sharp waves, dentate spikes). Although temperature is known to modulate various aspects of rhythmic hippocampal activity, little is known regarding the influence of temperature on the incidence of population spikes. We recorded spontaneous hippocampal activity along the CA1-dentate gyrus axis using multisite silicon electrodes in urethanized infant rats (P2-P16) at brain temperatures of 37 and 27 degrees C. Theta and gamma activity, as well as sharp waves, were detected at 37 degrees C but not at 27 degrees C. In contrast, dentate spikes were rare at 37 degrees C but their incidence increased several-fold at 27 degrees C (epileptiform activity also emerged at 27 degrees C in the oldest pups). This surprising increase in the incidence of dentate spike activity in a cold brain represents the first such demonstration for a neuronal field pattern. In addition, these findings indicate that changes in brain temperature produce systems-level shifts in the balance among reciprocally interacting hippocampal components.
Sensory neurons enable neural circuits to generate behaviors appropriate for the current environmental situation. Here, we characterize the actions of a population (about 60) of bilaterally symmetric bipolar neurons identified within the inner wall of the cardiac gutter, a foregut structure in the crab Cancer borealis. These neurons, called the ventral cardiac neurons (VCNs), project their axons through the crab stomatogastric nervous system to influence neural circuits associated with feeding. Brief pressure application to the cardiac gutter transiently modulated the filtering motor pattern (pyloric rhythm) generated by the pyloric circuit within the stomatogastric ganglion (STG). This modulation included an increased speed of the pyloric rhythm and a concomitant decrease in the activity of the lateral pyloric neuron. Furthermore, 2 min of rhythmic pressure application to the cardiac gutter elicited a chewing motor pattern (gastric mill rhythm) generated by the gastric mill circuit in the STG that persisted for &lt; or =30 min. These sensory actions on the pyloric and gastric mill circuits were mimicked by either ventral cardiac nerve or dorsal posterior esophageal nerve stimulation. VCN actions on the STG circuits required the activation of projection neurons in the commissural ganglia. A subset of the VCN actions on these projection neurons appeared to be direct and cholinergic. We propose that the VCN neurons are mechanoreceptors that are activated when food stored in the foregut applies an outward force, leading to the long-lasting activation of projection neurons required to initiate chewing and modify the filtering of chewed food.
The laterocapsular division of the central nucleus of the amygdala (CeA) is now defined as the &quot;nociceptive amygdala&quot; because of its high content of neurons that respond to painful stimuli. The majority of these neurons become sensitized in a model of arthritis pain. Here we address the role of G protein-coupled group I metabotropic glutamate receptor subtypes mGluR1 and mGluR5 in nociceptive processing under normal conditions and in pain-related sensitization. Extracellular single-unit recordings were made from 65 CeA neurons in anesthetized rats. Each neuron's responses to brief mechanical stimuli, background activity, receptive field size, and threshold were measured before and after induction of the kaolin/carrageenan mono-arthritis in one knee and before and during applications of agonists and antagonists into the CeA by microdialysis. All neurons received excitatory input from the knee(s) and responded most strongly to noxious stimuli. Before arthritis, a group I mGluR1 and mGluR5 agonist (DHPG, n = 10) potentiated the responses to innocuous and noxious stimuli. This effect was mimicked by an mGluR5 agonist (CHPG, n = 15). In the arthritis pain state (&gt;6 h after induction), the facilitatory effects of DHPG (n = 9), but not CHPG (n = 7), increased. An mGluR1 antagonist (CPCCOEt) had no effect before arthritis (n = 12) but inhibited the responses of sensitized neurons in the arthritis pain state (n = 8). An mGluR5 antagonist (MPEP) inhibited brief nociceptive responses under normal conditions (n = 19) and prolonged nociception in arthritis (n = 8). These data suggest a change of mGluR1 function and activation in the amygdala in pain-related sensitization, whereas mGluR5 is involved in brief as well as prolonged nociception.
We tested the hypothesis that endogenous N-acetylaspartylglutamate (NAAG) presynaptically inhibits glutamate release at mossy fiber-CA3 synapses. For this purpose, we made use of 2-(3-mercaptopropyl)pentanedioic acid (2-MPPA), an inhibitor of glutamate carboxypeptidase II [GCP II; also known as N-acetylated alpha-linked acidic dipeptidase (NAALADase)], the enzyme that hydrolyzes NAAG into N-acetylaspartate and glutamate. Application of 2-MPPA (1-20 microM) had no effect on intrinsic membrane properties of CA3 pyramidal neurons recorded in vitro in whole cell current- or voltage-clamp mode. Bath application of 10 microM 2-MPPA suppressed evoked excitatory postsynaptic current (EPSC) amplitudes. Attenuation of EPSC amplitudes was accompanied by a significant increase in paired-pulse facilitation (50-ms interpulse intervals), suggesting that a presynaptic mechanism is involved. The group II metabotropic glutamate receptor (mGluR) antagonist 2S-2-amino-2-(1S,2S-2-carboxycyclopropyl-1-yl)-3-(xanth-9-y l) propanoic acid (LY341495) prevented the 2-MPPA-dependent suppression of EPSC amplitudes. 2-MPPA reduced the frequencies of TTX-insensitive miniature EPSCs (mEPSC), without affecting their amplitudes, further supporting a presynaptic action for GCP II inhibition. 2-MPPA-induced reduction of mEPSC frequencies was prevented by LY341495, reinforcing the role of presynaptic group II mGluR. Because GCP II inhibition is thought to increase NAAG levels, these results suggest that NAAG suppresses synaptic transmission at mossy fiber-CA3 synapses through presynaptic activation of group II mGluRs.
A distinct high-voltage rhythmic spike (HVRS) discharge characterized by a barrage of negative spikes oscillating at 5-12 Hz was observed in chronically implanted Long Evans rats. Spontaneous HVRS discharges were exhibited in 90% of 40 Long Evans rats and occurred during sudden arrest of ongoing behavior (immobility) with occasional facial/whisker twitching. However, the function of HVRS discharges in Long Evans rats remains inconclusive to date and has been associated with alpha tremor/mu rhythm, attentive mu wave, and absence seizure. To elucidate the function of HVRS discharges in Long Evans rats, several experiments were performed. In a 6-h recording session (12:00-18:00), HVRS activities primarily occurred in several specific vigilance states, being particularly abundant in a short-lasting period before vigilance changes. Several characteristics, such as durations, oscillatory frequencies, and interspike intervals (ISIs) of HVRS discharges, were altered during wake-sleep states. Oscillatory frequencies were negatively correlated with durations of HVRS segments. In addition, ISIs of a HVRS episode exhibited a crescendo-decrescendo pattern. These variable ISIs could explain why a negative correlation was found between oscillatory frequencies and durations of HVRS episodes. Moreover, HVRS discharges were demonstrated to have widespread and near-synchronous distribution to bilateral cortical areas. In addition, innocuous electrical stimuli were unable to stop ongoing HVRS discharges. By contrast, noxious stimuli elicited behavioral arousal and immediately terminated most HVRS discharges. Cortical-evoked potentials in response to mild electrical stimulation under HVRS discharges were different from those under waking state but resemble those under slow-wave sleep with a smaller magnitude. Moreover, the temporal and spectral characteristics of spontaneous HVRS activities were analogous to those of seizure activities induced by penicillin and pentylenetetrazol. The incidence of spontaneous HVRS discharges was significantly decreased by ethosuximide administration. Based on these results, HVRS discharge might not be associated with a voluntary mu-rhythm behavior, instead it behaves as an absence-like seizure activity. These results were also collaborated using other genetic absence-seizure rats, such as WAG/Rij and GAERS rats. Possible mechanisms for the generation and termination of paroxysmal HVRS discharges are also discussed.
The AICD (APP intracellular Domain) and C31, caspase-cleaved C-terminal fragment of APP, have been found in Alzheimer's disease (AD) patients' brains and have been reported to induce apoptosis in neuronal cells. In recent, the C-terminal fragments of amyloid precursor protein (APP-CTs) have been reported to form a complex with Fe65 and the histone acetyltransferase Tip60 and are thought to be involved in gene transcription. In this study, based on the hypothesis that APP-CTs might exert neurotoxicity by inducing some gene transcription, we investigated the effects of APP-CTs on histone acetylation which indicates that transcription is actively going on and also on the relationship between histone acetylation and the cytotoxicity induced by APP-CTs in nerve growth factor (NGF)-differentiated PC12 cells and rat primary cortical neurons. Here we demonstrate that the expression of APP-CTs [C31, AICD (C59) and C99] induces increases in acetylation of histone 3 and histone 4 and that treatment with sodium butyrate, an inhibitor of histone deacetylase, significantly enhances the cytotoxicity induced by APP-CTs. The acetylation of histone plays an important role in allowing regulatory proteins to access DNA and is likely to be a major factor in the regulation of gene transcription. Taken together, our results suggest that APP-CTs exert neurotoxicity by transcription-dependent mechanisms and this might contribute to the pathogenesis of AD.
The human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1) glycoprotein gp120 causes neuronal cell death; however, the molecular mechanisms of the neurotoxic effect remain largely unresolved. It has been suggested that gp120 evokes cell death by inducing the release of neurotoxins, including glutamate. The objective of this work was to examine the role of glutamate in gp120-mediated neurotoxicity. We used as an experimental tool cerebellar granule cells prepared from 8-day-old rat cerebella, in which both glutamate and gp120 cause cell death. Cerebellar granule neurons were exposed to gp120 or glutamate alone or in combination with the glutamate receptor antagonist MK801 as well as other antiglutamatergic compounds. Cell viability was measured at various times by using several markers of cell death and apoptosis. MK801, at a concentration that blocked glutamate-induced neuronal cell death, failed to prevent gp120-mediated apoptotic cell death. Moreover, interleukin-10, which has previously been shown to block glutamate toxicity in these neurons, was not neuroprotective against gp120. Because gp120 toxicity is mediated by activation of the chemokine receptor CXCR4, neurons were incubated with the CXCR4 inhibitor AMD3100. This compound prevented gp120- but not glutamate-mediated cell death. These findings suggest that gp120 is toxic to neurons even in the absence of the virus and that the toxic mechanism involves primarily activation of CXCR4 receptor. Therefore, antagonists to the CXCR4 receptor may be more suitable compounds for inhibiting HIV-1 neurotoxicity.

Using a novel in vivo model for cerebral ischemia produced by short-lasting compression of a well-defined brain area of sensorimotor cortex we studied neuroprotective effects of the NMDA NR2B subunit selective antagonist, CP-101,606, in Sprague-Dawley rats. Cortical compression for 30 min produced a consistent and highly reproducible functional impairment, that is paresis of contralateral hind and fore limbs. The neurological deficit was accompanied by marked brain damage in cerebral cortex, hippocampus and thalamus as identified by Fluoro-Jade, a marker of general neuronal cell death. Using a daily performed beam walking test it was shown that untreated animals recovered from their functional impairment within 5-7 days following surgery. Intravenous administration of increasing doses (1, 5, 10, 20 mg/kg) of the NMDA NR2B subunit receptor specific antagonist, CP-101,606, dose-dependently improved the rate of functional recovery and protected against the ischemic brain damage in cerebral cortex, hippocampus, and thalamus as identified 2 days after the ischemic insult. Based upon these results, we conclude that NMDA NR2B receptor subunits represent potential targets to reduce not only the functional deficits, but also neuronal death in cortex and several midbrain regions produced by moderate, transient, cerebral ischemia.
All lentiviruses infect the brain, causing chronic neurological disease in their respective hosts. To examine the relationship(s) between lentivirus molecular diversity and the development of neurological disease, we examined in vitro and in vivo models of lentivirus neurovirulence using different recombinant viruses derived from human (HIV-1) and feline (FIV) immunodeficiency viruses. Both in vitro and in vivo studies of FIV neurovirulence showed that the FIV envelope derived from a neurovirulent strain was a principal determinant of neuropathogenesis, although systemic immunosuppression was also an integral feature of FIV neurovirulence. Studies of HIV-1 envelope sequences derived from brain or blood indicate that molecular diversity is greater in viruses from patients with HIV-associated dementia (HAD), compared to nondemented individuals. Moreover, the hypervariable V3 domain of HIVgp120, regardless of the HIV-1 clade from which it was derived, was an important region for mediating neurotoxicity in vitro but the level of viral replication did not influence neurotoxicity. For both the HIV-1 and FIV envelopes and HIV-1 Tat, induction of matrix metalloproteinase (MMP)-2 in macrophages was a consistent finding. Neurotoxicity caused by supernatants from HIV-infected or transfected macrophages, containing MMP-2, was greater than direct neurotoxicity levels caused by direct exposure of neurons to virus in assays of total neuronal death, but not in assays of neuronal apoptosis. Proteinase-activated receptor (PAR)-1 and its ligand thrombin were also induced during HIV infection, chiefly on astrocytes. PAR-1 activation resulted in gliosis and neurobehavioral changes in an animal model and resulted in N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor-mediated neuronal death. These findings suggest that the lentivirus envelope, which is a domain of extensive molecular diversity in brain-derived lentivirus isolates, directly influences neuropathogenesis through the activation of select proteases, underscoring the importance of concentrating on individual viral genes and proteases in the development of neuroprotective agents for HIV-related neurological disease.
Dementia can occur as a debilitating consequence of human immunodeficiency virus-1 (HIV-1) infection. The neuropathology incited by HIV infection involves activation of chemokine receptors, inflammatory factors, and N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor-mediated excitotoxicity, all of which can activate several downstream mechanisms. This article discusses recently identified pathways to neuronal damage triggered by HIV-1 and efforts aimed at development of applicable therapeutic intervention.
The emergence of a subset of circulating monocytes during human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1) disease has been shown to correlate with cognitive impairment. Thus, it is hypothesized that diagnostic protein profiles may be obtained from these cells from patients with or at risk for HIV-1-associated dementia (HAD). To address this possibility, we used ProteinChip assays to define a unique monocyte-derived macrophage (MDM) protein fingerprint during HAD and whether it is affected by highly active antiretroviral therapy (HAART). The study included five Hispanic women, one with HAD, two HIV-1-infected without cognitive impairment, and two seronegative controls. All patients were matched by age and immune status. Monocytes were recovered from the peripheral blood leukocytes by Percoll gradient centrifugation and allowed to differentiate in vitro for 7 days. Cell lysates and supernatants were collected from the MDM and analyzed by surface enhanced laser desorption/ionization-time of flight ProteinChip assays. Seven unique protein peaks between 3.0 and 20.0 kDa were found in the HAD MDM sample. Each of these proteins were abrogated after HAART. Additional studies extending this one time point determination would serve to confirm the general utility of MDM protein profiling for the diagnosis and monitoring of HAD.
Apomorphine has been used as a pharmacological probe of dopaminergic receptors in a variety of central nervous system disorders. The utility of apomorphine as an agent for the treatment of erectile dysfunction has also been demonstrated clinically. Apomorphine is a nonselective dopaminergic receptor agonist with potent binding affinity (Ki) of 101, 32, 26, 2.6, and 10 nM for D1, D2, D3, D4, and D5, respectively. When administered either subcutaneously (s.c.) or intracerebroventricularly (i.c.v.), apomorphine fully evoked penile erections in conscious rats with maximum effect at 0.1 micromol/kg s.c. and 3 nmol/rat i.c.v., respectively. Apomorphine was less efficacious when injected intrathecally (i.t.) to L4-L6 spinal levels (50% at 30-100 nmol/rat i.t.). Penile erection facilitated by apomorphine was blocked by haloperidol and clozapine (i.p. and i.c.v.) but not by domperidone (a peripherally acting dopaminergic receptor antagonist). In this model using conscious rats, penile erection was significantly induced by quinpirole (D2-D3-D4 receptor agonist), but not by R(+)-1-phenyl-2,3,4,5-tetrahydro-1H-3-benzazepine-7,8-diol (SKF38393) and R(+)-6-chloro-7,8-dihydroxy-1-phenyl-2,3,4,5-tetrahydro-1H-3-benzapine (SKF81297) (D1 receptor agonists), or a D2 receptor agonist R-5,6-dihydro-N,N-dimethyl-4H-imidazo[4,5,1-ij]quinolin-5-amine (PNU-95666E). The role of D4 receptors in penile erection was demonstrated using selective D4 receptor agonists [(4-phenylpiperazinyl)-methyl]benzamide (PD168077) and 5-fluoro-2-[[4-(2-pyridinyl)-1-piperazinyl]methyl]-1H-indole (CP226269), whether administered systemically (s.c.) or locally in the brain (i.c.v.). The ability of apomorphine to activate D3 receptors in relation to its proerectile activity remains to be elucidated by use of selective subtype agonists. These results suggest that the proerectile action of apomorphine in rats is mediated at supraspinal levels and that this effect is not mimicked by a D2 receptor agonist but associated with activation of D4 receptors.
We argue here that ants and bees have a piecemeal representation of familiar terrain. These insects remember no more than what is needed to sustain the separate and parallel strategies that they employ when travelling between their nest and foraging sites. One major strategy is path integration. The insect keeps a running tally of its distance and direction from the nest and so can always return home. This global path integration is enhanced by long-term memories of significant sites that insects store in terms of the coordinates (direction and distance) of these sites relative to the nest. With these memories insects can plan routes that are steered by path integration to such sites. Quite distinct from global path integration are memories associated with familiar routes. Route memories include stored views of landmarks along the route with, in some cases, local vectors linked to them. Local vectors by encoding the direction and/or distance from one landmark to the next, or from one landmark to a goal, help an insect keep to a defined route. We review experiments showing that although local vectors can be recalled by recognising landmarks, the global path integration system is independent of landmark information and that landmarks do not have positional coordinates associated with them. The major function of route landmarks is thus procedural, telling an insect what action to perform next, rather than its location relative to the nest.
Our perception of the word is the result of combining information between several senses, such as vision, audition and proprioception. These sensory modalities use widely different frames of reference to represent the properties and locations of object. Moreover, multisensory cues come with different degrees of reliability, and the reliability of a given cue can change in different contexts. The Bayesian framework--which we describe in this review--provides an optimal solution to deal with this issue of combining cues that are not equally reliable. However, this approach does not address the issue of frames of references. We show that this problem can be solved by creating cross-modal spatial links in basis function networks. Finally, we show how the basis function approach can be combined with the Bayesian framework to yield networks that can perform optimal multisensory combination. On the basis of this theory, we argue that multisensory integration is a dialogue between sensory modalities rather that the convergence of all sensory information onto a supra-modal area.
Understanding the conditions under which the brain integrates the different sensory streams and the mechanisms supporting this phenomenon is now a question at the forefront of neuroscience. In this paper, we discuss the opportunities for investigating these multisensory processes using modern imaging techniques, the nature of the information obtainable from each method and their benefits and limitations. Despite considerable variability in terms of paradigm design and analysis, some consistent findings are beginning to emerge. The detection of brain activity in human neuroimaging studies that resembles multisensory integration responses at the cellular level in other species, suggests similar crossmodal binding mechanisms may be operational in the human brain. These mechanisms appear to be distributed across distinct neuronal networks that vary depending on the nature of the shared information between different sensory cues. For example, differing extents of correspondence in time, space or content seem to reliably bias the involvement of different integrative networks which code for these cues. A combination of data obtained from haemodynamic and electromagnetic methods, which offer high spatial or temporal resolution respectively, are providing converging evidence of multisensory interactions at both &quot;early&quot; and &quot;late&quot; stages of processing--suggesting a cascade of synergistic processes operating in parallel at different levels of the cortex.
In order to determine precisely the location of a tactile stimulus presented to the hand it is necessary to know not only which part of the body has been stimulated, but also where that part of the body lies in space. This involves the multisensory integration of visual, tactile, proprioceptive, and even auditory cues regarding limb position. In recent years, researchers have become increasingly interested in the question of how these various sensory cues are weighted and integrated in order to enable people to localize tactile stimuli, as well as to give rise to the 'felt' position of our limbs, and ultimately the multisensory representation of 3-D peripersonal space. We highlight recent research on this topic using the crossmodal congruency task, in which participants make speeded elevation discrimination responses to vibrotactile targets presented to the thumb or index finger, while simultaneously trying to ignore irrelevant visual distractors presented from either the same (i.e., congruent) or a different (i.e., incongruent) elevation. Crossmodal congruency effects (calculated as performance on incongruent-congruent trials) are greatest when visual and vibrotactile stimuli are presented from the same azimuthal location, thus providing an index of common position across different sensory modalities. The crossmodal congruency task has been used to investigate a number of questions related to the representation of space in both normal participants and brain-damaged patients. In this review, we detail the major findings from this research, and highlight areas of convergence with other cognitive neuroscience disciplines.
In primates, tracking eye movements help vision by stabilising onto the retinas the images of a moving object of interest. This sensorimotor transformation involves several stages of motion processing, from the local measurement of one-dimensional luminance changes up to the integration of first and higher-order local motion cues into a global two-dimensional motion immune to antagonistic motions arising from the surrounding. The dynamics of this surface motion segmentation is reflected into the various components of the tracking responses and its underlying neural mechanisms can be correlated with behaviour at both single-cell and population levels. I review a series of behavioural studies which demonstrate that the neural representation driving eye movements evolves over time from a fast vector average of the outputs of linear and non-linear spatio-temporal filtering to a progressive and slower accurate solution for global motion. Because of the sensitivity of earliest ocular following to binocular disparity, antagonistic visual motion from surfaces located at different depths are filtered out. Thus, global motion integration is restricted within the depth plane of the object to be tracked. Similar dynamics were found at the level of monkey extra-striate areas MT and MST and I suggest that several parallel pathways along the motion stream are involved albeit with different latencies to build-up this accurate surface motion representation. After 200-300 ms, most of the computational problems of early motion processing (aperture problem, motion integration, motion segmentation) are solved and the eye velocity matches the global object velocity to maintain a clear and steady retinal image.
Multiplicative operations and invariance of neuronal responses are thought to play important roles in the processing of neural information in many sensory systems. Yet the biophysical mechanisms that underlie both multiplication and invariance of neuronal responses in vivo, either at the single cell or at the network level, remain to a large extent unknown. Recent work on an identified neuron in the locust visual system (the LGMD neuron) that responds well to objects looming on a collision course towards the animal suggests that this cell represents a good model to investigate the biophysical basis of multiplication and invariance at the single neuron level. Experimental and theoretical results are consistent with multiplication being implemented by subtraction of two logarithmic terms followed by exponentiation via active membrane conductances, according to a x 1/b = exp(log(a) - log(b)). Invariance appears to be in part due to non-linear integration of synaptic inputs within the dendritic tree of this neuron.

We tested the hypothesis that melatonin acts as a powerful hydroxyl radical (*OH) scavenger in vivo in the brain, and interferes with oxidative stress caused by the parkinsonian neurotoxin, 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP). We investigated the effect of melatonin on in vitro *OH production employing a Fenton-like reaction in test tubes, and ex vivo *OH generation in isolated mitochondria induced by 1-methyl-4-phenyl pyridinium (MPP+), as well as on in vivo *OH formation in the mouse striatum following systemic administration of MPTP. We also measured reduced glutathione (GSH) levels, and superoxide dismutase (SOD) activity in the nucleus caudatus putamen (NCP) and substantia nigra (SN), 7 days following MPTP and/or melatonin administration. Melatonin caused a significant and dose-dependent inhibition of the production of *OH in the in vitro, ex vivo and in vivo experimental conditions. Melatonin caused no changes in monoamine oxidase-B activity, in vitro in mitochondrial P2 fractions or in vivo following systemic administration. MPTP treatment in mice caused a significant depletion of GSH, and increased the specific activity of SOD both in SN and NCP on the seventh day. MPTP-induced GSH depletion was dose-dependently blocked in SN and NCP by melatonin. Higher doses of melatonin exhibited a synergistic effect on MPTP-induced increase in the SOD activity in the SN. These results suggest that while GSH inhibition is a direct consequence of *OH generation following neurotoxin administration, the increase in SOD activity is a compensatory mechanism for removing superoxide radicals generated as the result of MPTP. Our results not only point to the potency of melatonin in blocking the primary insults caused by MPTP, but also provide evidence for triggering secondary neuroprotective mechanisms, suggesting its use as a therapeutic agent in neurodegenerative disorders, such as Parkinson's disease.

This study analyzed the effect of rear-wheel position on seating comfort and mobility efficiency. Twelve randomly selected paraplegic wheelchair users participated in the study. Wheelchairs were tested in two rear-wheel positions while the users operated the wheelchair on a treadmill and while they worked on a computer. Propulsion efficiency, seating comfort, and propulsion qualities were registered at different loads during the treadmill session. During the computer session, pelvic position, estimated seating comfort, and estimated activity performance were measured. The change in rear-wheel position affected wheelchair ergonomics with respect to weight distribution (p &lt; 0.0001) and seat inclination angle (position I = 5 and position II = 12). These changes had a significant effect on push frequency (p &lt; 0.05) and stroke angle (p &lt; 0.05) during wheelchair propulsion. We found no consistent effect on mechanical efficiency, estimated exertion, breathlessness, seating comfort, estimated propulsion qualities, pelvic position, or activity performance.

Progress in molecular neurobiology is occurring at an accelerating rate, and the newer results carry with them an almost unprecedented degree of specificity. This, together with the development of techniques that permit, at least in principle, the targeting of DNA, RNA, and proteins in vivo, opens up a spectrum of possible new interventions, which almost certainly will have significant impact on the search for new therapies, and ultimately cures, for spinal cord injury and its consequences. This article outlines several areas of progress, based on progress in the author's laboratory, which supports the suggestion that, in the foreseeable future, it will be possible to protect and repair the injured spinal cord. In particular, this article focuses on progress in 3 interrelated areas: (a) neuroprotection (ie, the search for treatments that will protect vulnerable axons within the descending and ascending tracts within the spinal cord, so that they do not die after the initial traumatic insult); (b) restoration of conduction in spinal cord axons that survive the traumatic insult but fail to conduct impulses due to damage to their myelin; and (c) the targeting of molecules along the pain-signaling pathway, so as to reduce neuronal hyperexcitability that produces pain following SCI. Although much work remains to be done, we are coming much closer to our goals in each of these areas, and the overall objective--of protecting and repairing the injured spinal cord--appears achievable.
The single-particle analysis is a structure-determining method for electron microscope (EM) images which does not require crystal. In this method, the projections are picked up and averaged by the images of similar Euler angles to improve the signal to noise ratio, and then create a 3-D reconstruction. The selection of a large number of particles from the cryo-EM micrographs is a pre-requisite for obtaining a high resolution. To pickup a low-contrast cryo-EM protein image, we have recently found that a three-layer pyramidal-type neural network is successful in detecting such a faint image, which had been difficult to detect by other methods. The connection weights between the input and hidden layers, which work as a matching filter, have revealed that they reflect characters of the particle projections in the training data. The images stored in terms of the connection weights were complex, more similar to the eigenimages which are created by the principal component analysis of the learning images rather than to the averages of the particle projections. When we set the initial learning weights according to the eigenimages in advance, the learning period was able to be shortened to less than half the time of the NN whose initial weights had been set randomly. Further, the pickup accuracy increased from 90 to 98%, and a combination of the matching filters were found to work as an integrated matching filter there. The integrated filters were amazingly similar to averaged projections and can be used directly as references for further two-dimensional averaging. Therefore, this research also presents a brand-new reference-free method for single-particle analysis.
Two neural circuits in the retina are described, that involve neural interaction generated by image movement. One circuit increases the sensitivity in detecting movement in the visual field while the other circuit generates ganglion cell signals when an image moves in one preferred direction but not when moves in the opposite direction, explaining the observation of directionally selective ganglion cell responses described by Barlow and Hill (1963). In agreement with the recorded potentials, the circuit generates ganglion cell responses also when the light stimulus is stationary. This ambiguity in ganglion cell signals to the visual center limits the signals usefulness to images that are in constant movement. The only known such movement is that caused by the involuntary eye movements. The function of the circuit is therefore to stabilize the retinal image when transmitted to the visual center.
Intravenous recombinant tissue-type plasminogen activator (rtPA, alteplase) is the only drug approved for the treatment of acute ischemic stroke. It should be administered within 3 hours of stroke. There is additional evidence, however, that administration at later times, by means of other methods, is effective. Herein, is a broad review of the knowledge gained and insights created from studies in which thrombolytic treatment was used in patients with stroke.

A technique for simultaneous measurement of conscious (perceptual) and reflex (nystagmus) thresholds of vestibular function is described. We used an automated modified binary search algorithm with simultaneous infrared oculography in determining perceptual and VOR nystagmic thresholds respectively, during discrete whole body rotations in the dark. In a young group of 14 normal subjects (mean age 23 years) angular acceleration thresholds were significantly higher for perceptual detection (1.18 deg/s/s) than for nystagmus generation (0.51 deg/s/s). Only nystagmic thresholds were slightly raised (0.87 deg/s/s) in an older group of 9 normal subjects (mean age 63 years). The finding that nystagmic thresholds are lower than perceptual ones indicates a higher sensitivity of brainstem than cortical vestibular mechanisms. This technique would be of particular value in clinical situations where a dissociation between reflex and conscious vestibular mechanisms is expected, e.g. in patients with cortical lesions or in elderly patients with falls.
The mouse hepatitis virus (MHV) receptor (MHVR), CEACAM1, has two different functions for MHV entry into cells: binding to MHV spike protein (S protein) and activation of the S protein to execute virus-cell membrane fusion, the latter of which is accompanied by conformational changes of the S protein. The MHVR comprising the N-terminal and fourth domains [R1(1,4)] displays these two activities, and the N domain is thought to be critical for binding to MHV. In this study, we have addressed whether or not the N domain alone is sufficient for these activities. We examined three types of soluble form MHVR (soMHVR), one consisting of the N domain alone [soR1(1)], one with the N and second domains [soR1(1,2)], and one [soR1(1,4)] expressed by recombinant baculoviruses. We assessed the abilities of these three types of soMHVR to bind to MHV, activate fusogenicity, and induce conformational changes of the S protein. All three types of soMHVR similarly bound to MHV, as examined by a solid-phase binding assay and neutralized MHV infectivity. They also activated S protein fusogenicity and induced its conformational changes with similar levels of efficiency. However, R1(1) expressed on the BHK cell surface failed to serve as a receptor in spite of a sufficient level of expression. The inability of expressed R1(1) to work as a receptor was due to the inaccessibility of virions to R1(1); however, these were accessible using the MHVR-specific monoclonal antibody CC1. These results collectively indicated that the N domain retains all biological activities necessary for receptor function.


Previous work has demonstrated that drugs increasing brain concentrations of acetylcholine can enhance cognition in aging and brain-damaged organisms. The present study assessed whether galantamine (GAL), an allosteric modulator of nicotinic cholinergic receptors and weak acetylcholinesterase inhibitor, could improve acquisition and retention of an eyeblink (EB) classical conditioning task in healthy, young animals. We trained 24 rabbits (n = 8/group) in a 1000-msec trace Pavlovian EB conditioning paradigm in which a tone conditioned stimulus (CS) was presented for 500 msec, followed by a 500-msec trace period in which no stimuli were presented. A 100-msec corneal airpuff was the unconditioned stimulus (US). Acquisition sessions, consisting of 100 trials each, occurred daily for 10 consecutive days, followed by 3 d of extinction training. Animals were treated with one of three doses of GAL (0.0-3.0 mg/kg) prior to each session. Animals that received 3.0 mg/kg GAL showed significantly more EB conditioned responses (CRs) in fewer training trials than animals receiving either 1.5 mg/kg GAL or vehicle injections. GAL had no effect on CR performance during extinction. Pseudoconditioning control experiments, consisting of 200 explicitly unpaired tone-puff presentations indicated that GAL did not increase reactivity to the CS or US. These findings indicate that GAL may improve acquisition of moderately difficult associative learning tasks in healthy young organisms.
Cholinergic systems are critical to the neural mechanisms mediating learning. Reduced nicotinic cholinergic receptor (nAChR) binding is a hallmark of normal aging. These reductions are markedly more severe in some dementias, such as Alzheimer's disease. Pharmacological central nervous system therapies are a means to ameliorate the cognitive deficits associated with normal aging and aging-related dementias. Trace eyeblink conditioning (EBC), a hippocampus- and forebrain-dependent learning paradigm, is impaired in both aged rabbits and aged humans, attributable in part to cholinergic dysfunction. In the present study, we examined the effects of galantamine (3 mg/kg), a cholinesterase inhibitor and nAChR allosteric potentiating ligand, on the acquisition of trace EBC in aged (30-33 months) and young (2-3 months) female rabbits. Trace EBC involves the association of a conditioned stimulus (CS) with an unconditioned stimulus (US), separated by a stimulus-free trace interval. Repeated CS-US pairings results in the development of the conditioned eyeblink response (CR) prior to US onset. Aged rabbits receiving daily injections of galantamine (Aged/Gal) exhibited significant improvements compared with age-matched controls in trials to eight CRs in 10 trial block criterion (P = 0.0402) as well as performance across 20 d of training [F(1,21) = 5.114, P = 0.0345]. Mean onset and peak latency of CRs exhibited by Aged/Gal rabbits also differed significantly [F(1,21) = 6.120/6.582, P = 0.0220/0.0180, respectively] compared with age-matched controls, resembling more closely CR timing of young drug and control rabbits. Galantamine did not improve acquisition rates in young rabbits compared with age-matched controls. These data indicate that by enhancing nicotinic and muscarinic transmission, galantamine is effective in offsetting the learning deficits associated with decreased cholinergic transmission in the aging brain.
The present studies explored the role of the medial striatum in learning when task contingencies change. Experiment 1 examined whether the medial striatum is involved in place reversal learning. Testing occurred in a modified cross-maze across two consecutive sessions. Injections of the local anesthetic, bupivacaine, into the medial striatum, did not impair place acquisition, but impaired place reversal learning. The reversal-learning deficit was due to an inability to maintain the new choice pattern following the initial shift. Experiment 2 determined whether changes in acetylcholine (ACh) output occur during the acquisition or reversal learning of a place discrimination. Extracellular ACh output from the medial striatum was assessed in samples collected at 6-min intervals using in vivo microdialysis during behavioral testing. ACh output did not change from basal levels during place acquisition. During reversal learning, ACh output significantly increased as rats began to learn the new choice pattern, and returned to near basal levels as a rat reliably executed the new place strategy. The present results suggest that the medial striatum may be critical for flexible adaptations involving spatial information, and that ACh actions in this area enable the shifting of choice patterns when environmental conditions change.
Tobacco use is a major health problem that is estimated to cause 4 million deaths a year worldwide. Nicotine is the main addictive component of tobacco. It acts as an agonist to activate and desensitize nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (nAChRs). A component of nicotine's addictive power is attributable to actions on the mesolimbic dopaminergic system, which serves a fundamental role in the acquisition of behaviors that are inappropriately reinforced by addictive drugs. Here we show that nicotine, in the same concentration and time ranges as obtained from tobacco, has three main actions that regulate the activity of midbrain dopamine (DA) neurons. Nicotine first activates and then desensitizes nAChRs on the DA neurons. This process directly excites the DA neurons for a short period of time before the nAChRs desensitize. Nicotine also enhances glutamatergic excitation and decreases GABAergic inhibition onto DA neurons. These events increase the probability for synaptic plasticity, such as long-term potentiation. The short-lived direct excitation of the DA neurons coupled with the enhanced glutamatergic afferent activity provides the presynaptic and postsynaptic coincidence necessary to initiate synaptic potentiation. In total, these synaptic events lead to a relatively long-lasting heightened activity of midbrain DA neurons. Consistent with other summarized studies, this work indicates that the synaptic changes normally associated with learning and memory can be influenced and commandeered during the nicotine addiction process.
The neurotransmitter acetylcholine (ACh) has been accorded an important role in supporting learning and memory processes in the hippocampus. Cholinergic activity in the hippocampus is correlated with memory, and restoration of ACh in the hippocampus after disruption of the septohippocampal pathway is sufficient to rescue memory. However, selective ablation of cholinergic septohippocampal projections is largely without effect on hippocampal-dependent learning and memory processes. We consider the evidence underlying each of these statements, and the contradictions they pose for understanding the functional role of hippocampal ACh in memory. We suggest that although hippocampal ACh is involved in memory in the intact brain, it is not necessary for many aspects of hippocampal memory function.

The new millennium has been regarded as a genomic era. A lot of researchers and pathologists are beginning to understand the scientific basis of molecular genetics and relates with the progression of the diseases. Central nervous system (CNS) tumours are among the most rapidly fatal of all cancers. It has been proposed that the progression of malignant tumours may result from multi-step of genetic alterations, including activation of oncogenes, inactivation of tumour suppressor genes and also the presence of certain molecular marker such as telomerase activity. In this paper, we review some recent data from the literature, including our own studies, on the molecular genetics analysis in CNS tumours. Our studies have shown that two types of tumour suppressor genes, p53 and PTEN were involved in the development of these tumours but not in p16 gene among the patients from Hospital Universiti Sains Malaysia (HUSM). Telomerase activity also has been detected in various types of CNS tumours. Thus, it is important to assemble all data which related to this study and may provide as a vital information in a new approach to neuro-oncology studies in Malaysia.
Previous quantitative trait locus mapping (QTL) identified multigenic obesity (MOB) loci on mouse Chromosome (Chr) 2 that influence the interrelated phenotypes of obesity, insulin resistance, and dyslipidemia. To better localize and characterize the MOB locus, three congenic mouse strains were created. Overlapping genomic intervals from the lean CAST/Ei (CAST) strain were introgressed onto an obesity-susceptible C57BL/6 (BL6) background to create proximal (15 Mb-73 Mb), middle (63 Mb-165 Mb), and distal (83 Mb-182 Mb) congenic strains. The congenic strains showed differences in obesity, insulin, and lipid traits consistent with the original QTL analysis for the locus. Importantly, characterization of the MOB congenics localized the effects of genes that underlie obesity-related traits to an introgressed interval (73-83 Mb) unique to the middle MOB congenic. Conversely, significant differences between the lipid and insulin profiles of the middle and distal MOB congenics implicated the presence of at least two genes that underlie these traits. When fed an atherogenic diet, several traits associated with metabolic syndrome were observed in the distal MOB congenic, while alterations in plasma lipoproteins were observed in the middle MOB congenic strain.
Consciousness is the primary aspect of our lives. The true nature of consciousness (its subjectivity and intentionality) has resisted scientific explanation for centuries. This has important implications for scientific understanding and progress, as well as for the study and treatment of medical disorders, most of which involve some element of consciousness. In this paper, a basic nonlinear emergent mechanism (responsible for a large number of natural phenomena) is described. This mechanism produces nonlinear explicit states that have all the same properties as consciousness and hence the two may be identical. This mechanism might be applied to explain the generation of human consciousness. There is an intimate relation between consciousness and voluntary (by choice, free will) new or novel intentional (goal-directed) action-any action or action sequence (whether muscular movement, ocular movement, speech, thought, emotion) created anew by choice to achieve some goal. Consciousness always accompanies the production of such action (conscious action). Thus, a physical mechanism utilizing the basic type of nonlinear emergence (positive feedback between release and dissipation events, inhibition, formation of an explicit state, effects produced in other systems) was suggested for the production of voluntary new or novel intentional action from perception. This mechanism agrees with a large amount of research data for the production of such action. The nonlinear explicit states produced by the nonlinear mechanism from perception appear to have identical properties to human consciousness. Hence consciousness is natural, material, and functional; not something mysterious, nonmaterial, and epiphenomenal as has often been portrayed. It has evolved in humans for the creation of adaptive action. This means that consciousness can be explained and studied scientifically and medical disorders involving consciousness treatable by basic clinical treatment (psychiatric, medicinal, psychological). This theory also provides possibilities for the explanation of many puzzling questions: What brain structures are involved in producing consciousness. How these effects may be produced, manipulated, or complemented. That other animals may be conscious. That machines may be built to be conscious. That certain natural systems may have a degree of consciousness. That paranormal phenomena may be explained via these principles.

The aim of the present study is to use neuroscience theories about brain function (mirror-neurons MN) to draw inferences about the mechanisms supporting emotional resonance in two different groups of schizophrenia patients (with flat affect FA+ n = 13 and without flat affect FA- n = 11). We hypothesize that FA+ will not activate key brain areas involved in emotional processing. Conversely, FA- will have a functional mirror system for emotional resonance confirmed by activation of the prefrontal cortex and behavioral results. To test this hypothesis, we compared the two groups using blood oxygenation level-dependent (BOLD) functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) displaying a passive visual task (44 negative IAPS pictures and 44 neutral pictures). A random-effects analysis, for schizophrenia patients FA-, revealed significant loci of activation in the left mesial prefrontal (MPFC), right orbitofrontal (OFC) and left anterior cingulate cortices (ACC). Correlational analyses carried out between self-report ratings of negative feelings and BOLD signal changes revealed the existence of positive correlation in the LACC, LMPFC and ROFC. Conversely, FA+ did not show significant activation in the prefrontal cortex. We propose that negative emotional resonance induced by passively viewing negative pictures may be a form of &quot;mirroring&quot; that grounds negative feelings via an experiential mechanism. Hence, it could be argued that FA- were able to 'feel' emotions through this resonance behavior. Conversely, we suggest that the dysfunction seen in the FA+ group is a failure or distortion in the development of the MN system. This could be due to genetic or other endogenous causes, which affected prefrontal cortex MN involved in emotional resonance.
Studies by Murphy et al. have shown that neuronal stimulation can activate immediate early genes that code for transcription factors. Recent data suggest that Ca(2+) elevation in both neuronal cytoplasmic and nuclear compartments is responsible for the coupling of synaptic excitation to gene expression. Deisseroth et al. suggest that Ca(2+) influx through L-type voltage-sensitive Ca(2+) channels (VSCCs) activates cytoplasmic Ca(2+) targets such as calmodulin (CaM). The Ca(2+)-CaM complex then translocates to the nucleus leading to Ca(2+) and cAMP response element-binding protein (CREB) phosphorylation and gene expression. Reports have shown that L-type VSCCs are found on the vagus nerve. Other studies have suggested that activation of L-type VSCCs leads to a Ca(2+) store-dependent elevation of nuclear [Ca(2+)] that triggers gene expression by more direct activation of nuclear Ca(2+)/CaM-dependent protein kinase (CaMK). Moreover, nuclear transcription factors such as DREAM are themselves Ca(2+)-dependent, further supporting the importance of both nuclear and cytoplasmic Ca(2+) elevation in regulating gene expression. Our simulation studies suggest that intense synaptic stimulation in combination with amplification by release from intracellular Ca(2+) stores can produce elevations in nuclear Ca(2+) concentration and CaMK phosphorylation leading to CREB phosphorylation and gene expression. One of the downstream events would be the production of hepatocyte growth factor (HGF). HGF has trophic, repair, therapeutic or mitotic effect on kidney, pancreas, spleen, liver, lung, heart and spinal cord. These organs and systems' regeneration can be achieved by either upregulation of HGF release from the vagus nerve or upregulation of HGF production within the system (spinal cord). Conversely, inhibition of HGF release from the vagus nerve can inhibit cancer growth. Vagus nerve seems to be the nerve that nature intends to regulate organ growth and regeneration, it is very possible that other than HGF and injurin, other growth factors could be found in the vagus nerve. Electrical depolarization and hyperpolarization of the vagus nerve would be the most natural and effective way to induce organ regeneration and suppress cancer growth, respectively. A similar pathway seems to exist for different organs as HGF has trophic, repair, therapeutic or mitotic effect on different vagally innervated organs.
Developmental alcohol exposure adversely influences the developing brain. Alcohol exposure during rapid brain growth causes cell loss, alters connections between brain regions, and lowers the production of biological substances responsible for the communication among neurons. It is reasonable to suggest that alcohol may adversely affect the development of suprachiasmatic nuclei (SCN), the master circadian pacemaker. Multiple research reports suggest that abnormalities in circadian rhythms are involved in the etiopathogenesis of seasonal affective disorder (SAD), a syndrome in which depression develops during autumn or winter and remits the following spring or summer. Several lines of evidence suggest that changes in the circadian system are also involved in the development of nonseasonal mood disorders, such as major depression and bipolar disorder. Thus, developmental alcohol exposure produces subtle abnormalities in circadian rhythms that may contribute to the development of seasonal and nonseasonal mood disorders. Pharmacological, psychological, and light treatments of mood disorders have multiple effects on circadian function. The state of the circadian system may affect a response to treatment. Circadian rhythms have been reported for neurotransmitters, receptors, enzymes, and the second messenger system in the brain that are involved in the effects of treatments. Some of these rhythms have amplitudes as large as several 100%. Effects of many psychotropic medications depend on the time of administration in relation to body rhythmicity. Therefore, subtle circadian rhythm abnormalities related to developmental alcohol exposure may affect treatment response in patients with mood disorders.
Socioeconomic status (SES) is one of the strongest predictors of health in industrial nations. This is especially true of societies with large disparities between rich and poor. Evidence suggests that the interactions between individuals of different SES play a crucial role in mediating the effects of SES on health. The question is why? Because humans are extremely social animals, their sense of well being is to a large extent determined by their social interactions. In hierarchical societies, individuals at every level of the hierarchy have to submit to those above and the recognition of this submissiveness generates emotions such as shame, anger and depression. These emotions lead to the activation of physiological alarm systems such as the hypothalamic pituitary adrenal axis and the sympathetic nervous system. The chronic activation of these systems alter their set points. This results in changes in the systems' different target organs responsible for diseases such as adult onset diabetes, hypertension, atherosclerosis, major depression and autoimmune diseases. Recent evidence from neurobiology show that one brain area, the amygdala, plays a pivotal role in processing social emotions. Anatomical and physiological studies of the amygdala in animals show how this area could play the central role in activating the alarm systems. This recent evidence brings a deeper level of plausibility to the postulated mechanisms of activation of the alarm systems by social emotions. Other experimental evidence also shed more light on the pathways responsible for translating psychosocial experiences into physiological perturbations.
Both the American and European governments play a crucial part in the development and continuation of antisocial behavior. They demonstrate a lack of activities or initiatives that should intervene in or prevent negative conditions that correlate with antisocial behavior such as media violence; poverty; poor neighborhoods; homelessness; unfavourable parental impact and attitude, educational, psychiatric, neurobiological, and physical problems. More research is needed into a) the determinants of antisocial behavior, b) the construction of new and improvement of existing prevention and intervention programs, c) the exact reasons for governments' lack of initiatives and adequate measurements in order to tackle problems that correlate with antisocial behavior, and d) the development of methods that are suitable to stimulate the government's awareness of the necessity for adequate prevention and intervention programs.
Semicarbazide-sensitive amine oxidase (SSAO) is an enzyme associated with vascular systems in mammals. SSAO catalyzes the deamination of primary monoamines and has been suggested to be a risk factor in vascular disorders, e.g., diabetic vascular complications. The primary aim of the present study was to investigate if serum SSAO activity is associated with clinical parameters in non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) patients. Secondary aims were to investigate if there is a correlation between SSAO activity and the angiogenic factors vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) and basic fibroblast growth factor (bFGF).Thirty-three patients donated 231 serum samples. Detectable levels of bFGF, VEGF, and SSAO were observed in all patients. Serum SSAO activity was not statistically associated with survival (p = 0.35). A highly significant statistical correlation was found between SSAO activity and VEGF (p &lt; 0.0001). No significant correlation between SSAO and bFGF was observed. We conclude that SSAO was not associated with survival in patients with NSCLC. However, a strong correlation between serum SSAO activity and the angiogenic factor VEGF was found that might implicate new aspects of the mechanisms controlling angiogenesis.
Statistical reconstruction (SR) methods provide a general and flexible framework for obtaining tomographic images from projections. For several applications SR has been shown to outperform analytical algorithms in terms of resolution-noise trade-off achieved in the reconstructions. A disadvantage of SR is the long computational time required to obtain the reconstructions, in particular when large data sets characteristic for x-ray computer tomography (CT) are involved. As was shown recently, by combining statistical methods with block iterative acceleration schemes [e.g., like in the ordered subsets convex (OSC) algorithm], the reconstruction time for x-ray CT applications can be reduced by about two orders of magnitude. There are, however, some factors lengthening the reconstruction process that hamper both accelerated and standard statistical algorithms to similar degree. In this simulation study based on monoenergetic and scatter-free projection data, we demonstrate that one of these factors is the extremely high number of iterations needed to remove artifacts that can appear around high-contrast structures. We also show (using the OSC method) that these artifacts can be adequately suppressed if statistical reconstruction is initialized with images generated by means of Radon inversion algorithms like filtered back projection (FBP). This allows the reconstruction time to be shortened by even as much as one order of magnitude. Although the initialization of the statistical algorithm with FBP image introduces some additional noise into the first iteration of OSC reconstruction, the resolution-noise trade-off and the contrast-to-noise ratio of final images are not markedly compromised.


In this review article, we summarize recent progress toward understanding the neural structures and circuitry underlying dysfunctional social cognition in autism. We review selected studies from the growing literature that has used the functional neuroimaging techniques of cognitive neuroscience to map out the neuroanatomical substrates of social cognition in autism. We also draw upon functional neuroimaging studies with neurologically normal individuals and individuals with brain lesions to highlight the insights these studies offer that may help elucidate the search for the neural basis of social cognition deficits in autism. We organize this review around key brain structures that have been implicated in the social cognition deficits in autism: (1) the amygdala, (2) the superior temporal sulcus region, and (3) the fusiform gyrus. We review some of what is known about the contribution of each structure to social cognition and then review autism studies that implicate that particular structure. We conclude with a discussion of several potential future directions in the cognitive neuroscience of social deficits in autism.
Autism is a complex, behaviorally defined, developmental brain disorder with an estimated prevalence of 1 in 1,000. It is now clear that autism is not a disease, but a syndrome with a strong genetic component. The etiology of autism is poorly defined both at the cellular and the molecular levels. Based on the fact that seizure activity is frequently associated with autism and that abnormal evoked potentials have been observed in autistic individuals in response to tasks that require attention, several investigators have recently proposed that autism might be caused by an imbalance between excitation and inhibition in key neural systems including the cortex. Despite considerable ongoing effort toward the identification of chromosome regions affected in autism and the characterization of many potential gene candidates, only a few genes have been reproducibly shown to display specific mutations that segregate with autism, likely because of the complex polygenic nature of this syndrome. Among those, several candidate genes have been shown to control the early patterning and/or the late synaptic maturation of specific neuronal subpopulations controlling the balance between excitation and inhibition in the developing cortex and cerebellum. In the present article, we review our current understanding of the developmental mechanisms patterning the balance between excitation and inhibition in the context of the neurobiology of autism.
Both clinical and laboratory studies demonstrate that seizures early in life can result in permanent behavioral abnormalities and enhance epileptogenicity. Understanding the critical periods of vulnerability of the developing nervous system to seizure-induced changes may provide insights into parallel or divergent processes in the development of autism. In experimental rodent models, the consequences of seizures are dependent on age, etiology, seizure duration, and frequency. Recurring seizures in immature rats result in long-term adverse effects on learning and memory. These behavioral changes are paralleled by changes in brain connectivity, changes in excitatory neurotransmitter receptor distribution, and decreased neurogenesis. These changes occur in the absence of cell loss. Although impaired cognitive function and brain changes have been well-documented following early-onset seizures, the mechanisms of seizure-induced dysfunction remain unclear.
Recurring seizures in infants and children are often associated with cognitive deficits, but the reason for the learning difficulties is unclear. Recent studies in several animal models suggest that seizures themselves may contribute in important ways to these deficits. Other studies in animals have shown that recurring seizures result in dendritic spine loss. This change, coupled with a down-regulation in NMDA receptor subunit expression, suggests that repetitive seizures may interrupt the normal development of glutamatergic synaptic transmission. We hypothesize that homeostatic, neuroprotective processes are induced by recurring early-life seizures. These processes, by diminishing glutamatergic synaptic transmission, are aimed at preventing the continuation of seizures. However, by preventing the normal development of glutamatergic synapses, and particularly NMDA receptor-mediated synaptic transmission, such homeostatic processes also reduce synaptic plasticity and diminish the ability of neuronal circuits to learn and store memories.
Since the identification of the FMR1 gene basic research has been focused on the molecular characterization of the FMR1 gene product, the fragile X mental retardation protein (FMRP). Recent developments in fragile X research have provided new insights and knowledge about the physiological function of FMRP in the cell and the nerve cell in particular. Currently, compelling evidence suggests a role for FMRP in the transport/translation of dendritically localized mRNAs. In addition, the identification of some of the target mRNAs of FMRP have led to an increased interest in the neurobiology of the syndrome. This review highlights the role of FMRP in dendritic mRNA transport/translation in relation to synaptic plasticity, a molecular mechanism implicated in learning and memory.







Biochemical and structural studies of signaling proteins have revealed critical features of peptide motifs at the interaction surfaces between proteins. Such information can be used to design small peptides that can be used as functional probes of specific interactions in signaling cascades. This article describes the use of a novel domain (the GoLoco motif) found in several members of the regulators of G-protein signaling (RGS) protein family to probe the specificity of Galpha subunit involvement in the coupling of dopamine and somatostatin receptors to ion channels in the AtT20 neuroendocrine cell line. Peptides encoding the GoLoco motifs of RGS12 and AGS3 were perfused into single cells during electrical recording of agonist-induced current responses by whole cell patch clamp methods. The particular sequences chosen have been demonstrated to bind selectively to the GDP-bound form of Galphai, but not Galphao, and preclude association of Gbetagamma and Galphai subunits. A functional manifestation of this property is observed in the progressive uncoupling of D2 dopamine receptors and Kir3.1/3.2 channels with repeated agonist application. Similar uncoupling is not observed with somatostatin receptors nor with D2 receptors coupling to calcium channels, suggesting Galpha subunit specificity in these signaling pathways. Motifs found in other proteins in the GPCR signaling machinery may also prove useful in assessing G-protein signaling specificity and complexity in single cells in the future.
RGS8 was identified as a regulator of G-protein signaling (RGS) protein induced in neuronally differentiated P19 cells. This article presents methods used to estimate the binding activity and selectivity between RGS8 and Galpha subunits. It describes three kinds of in vitro-binding experiments using RGS8 proteins generated by three different techniques: recombinant protein from Escherichia coli, in vitro-translated protein, and protein expressed in cDNA-transfected cultured cells. It also presents methods of the functional analysis of RGS protein using the Xenopus oocyte expression system. Electrophysiological procedures, which were used to examine the effects of RGS8 on Gi- and Gq-mediated responses, are described.
RGSZ1 has been reported to interact with G-protein subunits of the Galphai family and function as a GTPase-accelerating protein on intrinsic Galphai GTPase activity. This article describes several experimental approaches and assays used to investigate the effect of RGSZ1 on Galphai subunits. The formats described here include physical and functional interaction assays by which the association of RGSZ1 with Galphai is explored both in vitro and in vivo. The methods analyzing physical interaction include pull-down and coimmunoprecipitation assays. We also apply yeast two-hybrid techniques to detect RGSZ1 protein interaction with Galpha subunits. Additionally, we developed several functional assay systems to identify the functional relationship between RGSZ1 and Galphai, such as the single turnover GTPase assay, yeast pheromone response assay, mitogen-activated protein kinase assay, and serum response element reporter assay.
This article provides information on two screening platforms for the identification of regulators of G-protein signaling (RGS) protein modulators. Utilization of the yeast pheromone response pathway enabled the creation of a functional screen for RGS4 modulators. The RGSZ1-focused screen employs advances in yeast two-hybrid screening technologies and targets the protein-protein interface of the RGS domain/Galpha interaction. Moreover, the RGSZ1 screen provides the opportunity to multiplex the screening of two targets of interest, given the development of two different luciferase reporter genes that enabled sequential determination and intraassay controls. The screen formats were validated, implemented, and conducted as automated 384-well, liquid-based, high-throughput small molecule screens. Primary &quot;hits&quot; were confirmed using benchtop 96-well formats of these assays and advanced to in vitro functional evaluation assays. The yeast-based assay platforms provide robust cellular assays that result in the identification of small molecule modulators for both RGS targets. These molecules can serve both as tools with which to probe biological implications of RGS proteins and as potential starting points toward the development of novel modulators of G-protein signaling pathways. Such modulators may show potential for controlling and treating diseases resulting from inappropriate activity of G-protein signaling pathways.




Huntington's disease (HD) and Friedreich's ataxia (FRDA) are associated with defects of respiratory-chain enzyme activities. In the respective disorders, these can be identified in tissue samples from postmortem brain and also during life from skeletal or cardiac muscle samples. The mitochondrial abnormalities are robust and reproducible. In the case of HD, it is uncertain how these mitochondrial defects fit in the pathogenetic cascade. Studies are ongoing to identify whether the respiratory-chain defect present in the brain is expressed in skeletal muscle at the spectrophotometric level. The presence of a bioenergetic defect as identified by 31P magnetic resonance spectroscopy (MRS) suggests that in HD expression of the mutant protein can exert an influence on mitochondrial function in tissues outside the central nervous system (CNS). It would appear that frataxin deficiency has a direct effect on mitochondrial function, either through iron-sulfur cluster construction or through the generation of free radicals. The identification these bioenergetic abnormalities in these neurodegenerative disorders has opened up the prospect for the development of disease-modifying therapies directed to the biochemical abnormalities demonstrated. 31P-MRS studies have detected a deficit of in vivo oxidative phosphorylation in the skeletal muscle of FRDA and HD patients and in the myocardium of FRDA patients. In both FRDA and HD patients, a relationship between the triplet repeat expansion and the extent of in vivo energy metabolism deficit has been shown. The total safety of MRS scans makes them an ideal tool for repeated assessments to monitor disease progression as well as the effect of new therapies. This chapter describes useful methods for assessment of mitochondrial function in vitro and in vivo.
A protein marked for degradation by the ubiquitin-proteasome pathway (UPP) is attached to multiple molecules of ubiquitin, a 76-amino-acid protein that targets the protein for rapid hydrolysis by 26S proteasome. Impaired function of UPP results in accumulation of misfolded and ubiquitinated proteins and has been implicated in the pathogenesis of various neurodegenerative diseases, including polyglutamine diseases. Impaired function of UPP can be evaluated either by assaying the proteasome's protease activity or the accumulation of ubiquitinated proteins.
This chapter describes the potential use of viral-mediated gene transfer in the central nervous system as a new strategy in developing animal models of neurodegenerative diseases. To illustrate the approach, procedures for the production of lentiviral vectors encoding polyQ proteins are provided, as well as methods for the determination of viral titers, in vitro infection, and basic protocols for in vivo studies in rodents.
The expression of expanded polyglutamine in mammalian cells causes the formation of aggregates. For elucidation of the biochemical properties of the aggregates, isolation and solubilization of the aggregates are required. This chapter provides useful protocols for the solubilization of polyglutamine aggregates and further applications of protein analysis.
Circular dichroism (CD) spectroscopy is a useful technique for studying protein-protein interactions in solution. CD in the far ultraviolet region (178-260 nm) arises from the amides of the protein backbone and is sensitive to the conformation of the protein. Thus CD can determine whether there are changes in the conformation of proteins when they interact. CD bands in the near ultraviolet (350-260 nm) and visible regions arise from aromatic and prosthetic groups. There are also changes in these regions when proteins bind to each other. Because CD is a quantitative technique, changes in CD spectra are directly proportional to the amount of the protein-protein complexes formed, and these changes can be used to estimate binding constants. Changes in the stability of the protein complexes as a function of temperature or added denaturants, compared to the isolated proteins, can also be used to determine binding constants.




Hybridization array technology makes it possible to compare global gene-expression patterns in any experimental context for which good-quality RNA can be generated. To date, DNA arrays have been used as a tool to compare functional genomic changes (differences in wholesale gene expression) in studies that cover an impressive variety of research disciplines including cancer, yeast genomics, and, more recently, neuroscience and behavior. The basic premise of the array experiment is that one interrogates a panel of probes (gene-specific cDNA fragments or gene-specific oligonucleotides that have been immobilized on a solid support) with RNAs (targets) from control and treated experimental samples that have been either radioactively or fluorescently labeled. Signal derived from either competitive (both samples on a single chip) or differential (one sample/one chip) hybridization is used to calculate relative gene expression. There are three widely used platforms available to perform array experiments (Affymetrix GeneChips, oligonucleotide arrays, and membrane-based cDNA arrays) and each platform offers advantages and limitations. The experimental description in this chapter explains, in detail, how to perform a hybridization array using the macroarray platform.
Primary cultures of neurons provide opportunities to study the cell biology of neurons under controlled conditions. Because differences exist in cellular properties among populations of neurons in the brain, survival requirements for neurons among these regions differ as well. This chapter outlines protocols for the preparation of primary cultures of spinal cord from 2-d-old neonatal rats. One protocol prepares cultures enriched in neurons and an alternative procedure prepares cultures enriched in non-neuronal cells. Comparison of biochemical data between these two culture preparations allows deductions of effects of treatments on neurons in the cultures. Limitations in interpretation of data obtained from cultured neurons are discussed.
Peripheral nerve damage involves inflammation, and is frequently causal to the development of neuropathic pain. However, inflammatory neuropathies often occur in the absence of trauma. We have recently developed an animal model of neuropathic pain where allodynia is induced by nerve inflammation rather than injury. This sciatic inflammatory neuropathy (SIN) model was developed to understand immunologic, neuropathic, and spinal mechanisms underlying allodynia in the territory of the sciatic nerve as well as in extraterritorial and contralateral (&quot;mirror image&quot;) sites. A specially designed indwelling catheter system allows immune activators to be selectively injected around one healthy sciatic nerve in awake, behaving rats. Here, we provide detailed procedures on the construction and implantation of chronic indwelling perisciatic catheters used to create SIN. Detailed procedures for implantation of intrathecal catheters via a lumbar vertebra 5 and 6 approach in the same rat are also provided. Methods for testing allodynia and for data analysis are additionally described so to provide all the steps needed for behavioral experimentation.
Since its introduction in 1992, the spinal nerve ligation (SNL) model of neuropathic pain has been widely used for various investigative works on neuropathic pain mechanisms as well as in screening tests for the development of new analgesic drugs. This model was developed by tightly ligating one (L5) or two (L5 and L6) segmental spinal nerves in the rat. The operation results in long-lasting behavioral signs of mechanical allodynia, heat hyperalgesia, cold allodynia, and ongoing pain. In the process of widespread usage, however, many different variations of the SNL model have been produced, either intentionally or unintentionally, by different investigators. Although the factors that cause these variations themselves are interesting and important topics to be studied, the pain mechanisms involved in these variations are likely different from the original model. Therefore, this chapter describes, in detail, the method for producing the spinal nerve ligation model that will minimally induce potential factors that may contribute to these variations. It is hoped that this description will help many investigators to produce a consistent animal model with uniform pathophysiological mechanisms.
Endotoxin/lipopolysaccharide (LPS) is the major mediator that triggers the cellular and humoral responses of the shock induced by Gram-negative bacteria. The toxic responses of LPS are mediated by various factors and mainly by tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNFalpha). To study the role of TNF and to identify anti-TNF molecules in endotoxic/septic shock, numerous animal models have been utilized. The models described here are among the most widely used and are represented by LPS given at high dose, or at low dose in D-galactosamine-sensitized mice. The endpoints of these models are the survival, the organ toxicity, or the regulation of cytokines, and in particular of TNFalpha. An additional and more complex model of endotoxic/septic shock, the polymicrobial model of cecal ligation and puncture, where a synergistic interaction of several mediators occurs, is then described.
At relatively low cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) pressures, the majority of CSF drainage in 6- to 8-month-old sheep occurs through the cribriform plate into lymphatic vessels in the nasal submucosa. As CSF pressures are elevated, other absorption sites are recruited and these may include transport through arachnoid projections. To test for the transport of CSF directly into the venous sinus, the concentration of a tracer (131I-human serum albumin [HSA]) administered into the CSF compartment was measured in the confluence of the intracranial venous sinuses (torcular) and in the peripheral blood (inferior vena cava). CSF pressures were adjusted to favor absorption. Enrichment of the CSF tracer in the cranial venous system was most evident when the CSF-venous sinus pressure gradients were high. Peak concentration differences occurred 90 s after the CSF pressures were elevated. When pressure gradients approached 30 cm H(2)O, tracer concentrations in the torcular were approximately twofold higher than those observed in peripheral blood. The greatest concentration differences favoring the torcular were obtained when the CSF-venous sinus pressure gradients were elevated to high levels (20- to 40 cm H(2)O) and when CSF access to the paranasal lymphatics and CSF transport into the spinal subarachnoid compartment were prevented. In conjunction with previous studies, these results are compatible with the view that CSF absorption in the adult animal can occur directly into the cranial venous system. However, contrary to the established view, this pathway may represent a secondary system that is recruited to compliment lymphatic transport when global absorption capacity is stressed or compromised.
Disrupted In Schizophrenia 1 (DISC1) was identified as a potential susceptibility gene for schizophrenia due to its disruption by a balanced t(1;11) (q42;q14) translocation, which has been shown to cosegregate with major psychiatric disease in a large Scottish family. We have demonstrated that DISC1 exists in a neurodevelopmentally regulated protein complex with Nudel. The complex is abundant at E17 and in early postnatal life but is greatly reduced in the adult. Nudel has previously been shown to bind Lis1, a gene underlying lissencephaly in humans. Critically, we show that the predicted peptide product resulting from the Scottish translocation removes the interaction domain for Nudel. DISC1 interacts with Nudel through a leucine zipper domain and binds to a novel DISC1-interaction domain on Nudel, which is independent from the Lis1 binding site. We show that Nudel is able to act as a bridge between DISC1 and Lis1 to allow formation of a trimolecular complex. Nudel has been implicated to play a role in neuronal migration, together with the developmental variation in the abundance of the DISC1-Nudel complex, may implicate a defective DISC1-Nudel complex as a neurodevelopmental cause of schizophrenia.
Green tea has been reported to show anti-inflammatory properties because of its inhibitory effects on the expression of several pro-inflammatory genes. Because the inducible nitricoxide synthase (iNOS) plays an important role in chronic inflammatory diseases, we have focused our attention on the regulation of iNOS expression by green tea in two different human epithelial cell lines, alveolar A549/8 and colon DLD-1 cells. With the use of electrophoretic mobility shift assays, we found a green tea-mediated down-regulation of the DNA binding activity of the transcription factor signal transducer and activator of transcription-1alpha (STAT-1alpha), but not of nuclear factor-kappaB. This down-regulation of the STAT-1alpha DNA binding was shown to result from reduced tyrosine phosphorylation of the STAT-1alpha protein and not from antioxidative effects of the green tea extract. Green tea extract inhibited human iNOS expression in a concentration-dependent manner, quantified in terms of iNOS mRNA, iNOS protein, and nitric oxide production in both cell lines. This inhibitory effect of green tea resulted from transcriptional inhibition as shown in reporter gene experiments. These data suggest that green tea extracts may be promising at least as an auxiliary anti-inflammatory principle in chronic inflammatory diseases.
The glutamate hypothesis of schizophrenia derived from evidence that phencyclidine, a noncompetitive N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) antagonist, produces schizophrenia-like symptoms in healthy humans. Sensorimotor gating, measured by prepulse inhibition (PPI), is a fundamental form of information processing that is deficient in schizophrenia patients and rodents treated with NMDA antagonists. Hence, PPI is widely used to study the neurobiology of schizophrenia. As the use of PPI as a model of gating deficits in schizophrenia has become more widespread, it has become increasingly important to assess such deficits accurately. Here we identify a possible role of mGluR5 in PPI by using wild type (WT) and mGluR5 knockout (KO) mice of two different background strains, 129SvPasIco and C57BL/6. In both strains, PPI was disrupted dramatically in the mGluR5 KO mice throughout a range of interstimulus intervals and sensory modalities. The present findings further support the glutamate hypothesis of schizophrenia and identify a functional role for mGluR5 in sensorimotor gating.

Elucidation of the mechanisms of neuronal damage is an important task of modem neuroscience and is of paramount importance for medicine. Present work compares two models of excitotoxic neuronal damage induced by kainic acid and pilocarpine, in which inbred C57BL/6J (C57BL) and FVB/NJ (FVB) mice were used. Both models produced higher neuronal damage in FVB although mortality was higher in C57BL. No significant differences between two strains of mice were found in seizures severity. Kainic acid demonstrated greater tropism to hippocampus in comparison with pilocarpine. Hsp-70 and Egr-1 expression was not significantly different in C57BL and FVB. Analysis of the isolated mitochondrial fraction has shown different degree of free radical production in the strains studied, that could be one of the reasons for unequal susceptibility of their neurons to excitotoxic cell death.
Michael J. Fox was a popular and successful film and television comic actor who developed Parkinson's disease at the age of 29 years. His recently published book, Lucky Man, structured around the story of his Parkinson's disease, is an amusing, briskly paced yet introspective memoir that covers the first 40 years of his life. Although quite anecdotal, it contains interesting observations on the preclinical phase of the disorder, evolution of motor fluctuations, and tactics for pharmacological treatment.
Repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation (rTMS) can produce long-lasting effects not only underneath the site of stimulation, but also at distant connected sites. This study aimed to assess how low frequency rTMS over the premotor area might affect abnormalities in spinal motor function in patients with generalised dystonia associated with the DYT1 gene mutation. We assessed reciprocal inhibition (RI) in a group of 8 manifesting carriers of the DYT1 gene (DYT1) and 10 healthy controls. All subjects then received 20 minutes of 1 Hz rTMS over the premotor area, and RI was assessed again. Before rTMS, the second and third phases of RI were abnormal in DYT1 subjects compared to controls. After 20 minutes of 1 Hz rTMS over the premotor area, a significant increase in inhibition was noted in the third and possibly the first phase of RI in the DYT1 group. No changes in RI were observed in control subjects after rTMS. We have shown for the first time to date that reducing cortical excitability in patients with dystonia using rTMS can produce corresponding changes in abnormal spinal motor output. These findings make a case for further exploring rTMS as a tool to modulate abnormal cortical and spinal excitability in individuals with dystonia and even as a potential form of treatment for dystonic symptoms.
We evaluated a method for direct measurement of conduction velocity (CV) in sympathetic nerves in humans using a double-recording method of skin sympathetic nerve activity (SSNA) by microneurography. SSNA in the tibial nerve was recorded simultaneously at proximal and distal sites in the popliteal fossa (short-distance study) or at the popliteal fossa and ankle (long-distance study). In both studies, CVs were determined by dividing the interelectrode distance on the skin by the difference in conduction time between the rising-phases (rising-phase analysis) or peaks of the integrated bursts (peak-to-peak analysis). The measurement using long distance and peak-to-peak analysis had the highest accuracy; it is an orthodromic conduction measurement, is unrelated to eliciting stimulus, has high temporal resolution, and is not affected by the effector organ conditions. The average CV of resting SSNA was 0.93 +/- 0.09 m/s.
Both late-gestation and adult human forebrain contain large numbers of oligodendrocyte progenitor cells (OPCs). These cells may be identified by their A2B5(+)PSA-NCAM(-) phenotype (positive for the early oligodendrocyte marker A2B5 and negative for the polysialylated neural cell adhesion molecule). We used dual-color fluorescence-activated cell sorting (FACS) to extract OPCs from 21- to 23-week-old fetal human forebrain, and A2B5 selection to extract these cells from adult white matter. When xenografted to the forebrains of newborn shiverer mice, fetal OPCs dispersed throughout the white matter and developed into oligodendrocytes and astrocytes. By 12 weeks, the host brains showed extensive myelin production, compaction and axonal myelination. Isolates of OPCs derived from adult human white matter also myelinated shiverer mouse brain, but much more rapidly than their fetal counterparts, achieving widespread and dense myelin basic protein (MBP) expression by 4 weeks after grafting. Adult OPCs generated oligodendrocytes more efficiently than fetal OPCs, and ensheathed more host axons per donor cell than fetal cells. Both fetal and adult OPC phenotypes mediated the extensive and robust myelination of congenitally dysmyelinated host brain, although their differences suggested their use for different disease targets.
Oligodendrocyte precursor cells (OPCs) express receptors for many neurotransmitters, but the mechanisms responsible for their activation are poorly understood. We have found that quantal release of GABA from interneurons elicits GABA(A) receptor currents with rapid rise times in hippocampal OPCs. These currents did not exhibit properties of spillover transmission or release by transporters, and immunofluorescence and electron microscopy suggest that interneuronal terminals are in direct contact with OPCs, indicating that these GABA currents are generated at direct interneuron-OPC synapses. The reversal potential of OPC GABA(A) currents was -43 mV, and interneuronal firing was correlated with transient depolarizations induced by GABA(A) receptors; however, GABA application induced a transient inhibition of currents mediated by AMPA receptors in OPCs. These results indicate that OPCs are a direct target of interneuronal collaterals and that the GABA-induced Cl(-) flux generated by these events may influence oligodendrocyte development by regulating the efficacy of glutamatergic signaling in OPCs.
It is well established that attention increases the efficiency of information processing, but the neural mechanisms underlying this improvement are not fully understood. Evidence indicates that neural firing rates increase for attended stimuli, but another possibility is that attention could increase the selectivity of the neural population representing an attended stimulus. We tested this latter hypothesis by using functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) to measure population selectivity for object views under different attention conditions in the human lateral occipital complex (LOC). Our data not only show increased neural activity (or 'gain') with attention, consistent with existing models, but also increased population selectivity that cannot be accounted for by gain mechanisms alone. Our results suggest that attention increases the specificity of the neural population representing an attended object.
In memory of Paul Julius Mbius (1853-1907) on the occasion of his 150th birthday Among his profession Leipzig neurologist and psychiatrist Paul Julius Mbius made a name for himself by clinical studies on singular neurological topics. Several of these contributions have been acknowledged until today by giving his name to these symptoms or illnesses (cf. 'Mbius sign', 'Mbius syndrome', 'Mbius disease'). It was also him who divided nervous illnesses into endogenous and exogenous ones. Furthermore, Mbius made significant contributions towards the understanding of the causes for some mental illnesses, e.g. it was him who postulated a psychogenic development of hysteria. Through his pathographies as well as his work as a major reviewer and editor of 'Schmidt's Annals of Domestic and Foreign Entire Medicine' Mbius became known to a greater public. Even more well-known, if not infamous, Mbius's name is for his pamphlet on 'The Physiological Mental Weakness of Woman'. As a result of it's repeated republication he was accused to be hating women and his major contributions towards the progress of the neurosciences have been neglected.
The new curriculum for medical licensure in Germany focuses on interdisciplinary and problem-based learning. In recent years, first experiences with this learning model were gathered in several German medical schools conducting courses supplementing the traditional curriculum. This article describes the course &quot;Nervous system and behavior&quot; at Ludwig Maximilian University in Munich. This course was established in cooperation with Harvard University in Boston, USA (The Munich-Harvard Alliance) together with three other clinical courses and has run every semester since the winter of 1999. As this course integrates neuroscience disciplines with special emphasis on neurology and psychiatry, it may serve as a role model for the implementation of these subjects in a new curriculum. This article introduces the reader to its structure and elements as well as feedback from students.
On the basis of recent developments in neuroscience, modern neuropsychology makes great contributions to the psychopathology of obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD). Those studies pay little attention to the will because of their cognitive orientation. However, the will forms an essential aspect of OCD according to Jaspers and Schneider. Based on a clinical case we discuss OCD from the point of view of will psychology. As our case concerns a schizophrenic psychosis, we focus here on OCD appearing in schizophrenia. For this approach we refer to classic neuropsychology which deals intensively with problems of the will. Accordingly, patients suffering from brain injuries are confined to habitual activities which follow unintentionally from the present situation. This sort of present-related spontaneousness is expressed in the concept &quot;becoming.&quot; On the other hand, patients suffering from OCD are alienated from habitual activities. Lastly we discuss the relation between schizophrenia and OCD.
The goal of this study is to establish a link between somatosensory physiology and psychophysics at the probabilistic level. The model for a population of monkey rapidly adapting (RA) mechanoreceptive fibers by Gl and Bolanowski (2002) was used to study the probability of stimulus detection when a 40 Hz sinusoidal stimulation is applied with a constant contactor size (2 mm radius) on the terminal phalanx. In the model, the detection was assumed to be mediated by one or more active fibers. Two hypothetical receptive field organizations (uniformly random and gaussian) with varying average innervation densities were considered. At a given stimulus-contactor location, changing the stimulus amplitude generates sigmoid probability-of-detection curves for both receptive field organizations. The psychophysical results superimposed on these probability curves suggest that 5 to 10 active fibers may be required for detection. The effects of the contactor location on the probability of detection reflect the pattern of innervation in the model. However, the psychophysical data do not match with the predictions from the populations with uniform or gaussian distributed receptive field centers. This result may be due to some unknown mechanical factors along the terminal phalanx, or simply because a different receptive field organization is present. It has been reported that human observers can detect one single spike in an RA fiber. By considering the probability of stimulus detection across subjects and RA populations, this article proves that more than one active fiber is indeed required for detection.
'Continuous attractor' neural networks can maintain a localised packet of neuronal activity representing the current state of an agent in a continuous space without external sensory input. In applications such as the representation of head direction or location in the environment, only one packet of activity is needed. For some spatial computations a number of different locations, each with its own features, must be held in memory. We extend previous approaches to continuous attractor networks (in which one packet of activity is maintained active) by showing that a single continuous attractor network can maintain multiple packets of activity simultaneously, if each packet is in a different state space or map. We also show how such a network could by learning self-organise to enable the packets in each space to be moved continuously in that space by idiothetic (motion) inputs. We show how such multi-packet continuous attractor networks could be used to maintain different types of feature (such as form vs colour) simultaneously active in the correct location in a spatial representation. We also show how high-order synapses can improve the performance of these networks, and how the location of a packet could be read by motor networks. The multiple packet continuous attractor networks described here may be used for spatial representations in brain areas such as the parietal cortex and hippocampus.

Mendelian genetic tools have extensively been used to improve the description of the pharmacological mechanisms involved in learning and memory. The first part of this short review describes experiments involving the bidirectional selection of rats or mice for extreme behavioral characteristics or for sensitivity to pharmacological treatments. The second part focuses specifically on in-breeding. In conclusion, the advantages and the limits of a Mendelian pharmacogenetic approach of learning and memory are discussed.
We have advanced considerably in the past 2 to 3 years in understanding the molecular mechanisms of consolidation, retrieval, and extinction of memories, particularly of fear memory. This advance was mainly due to pharmacological studies in many laboratories using localized brain injections of molecularly specific substances. One area in which significant advances have been made is in understanding that many different brain structures are involved in different memories, and that often several brain regions are involved in processing the same memory. These regions can cooperate or compete with each other, depending on circumstances that are beginning to be identified quite clearly. Another aspect in which major advances were made was retrieval and post-retrieval events, especially extinction, pointing to new therapeutic approaches to fear-motivated mental disorders.
The history of the neurochemistry of mnesic processes can be divided into two main periods: the first (1946-1978) was inspired by the results of molecular genetics, providing evidence for storage of hereditary information in the DNA of genes. Therefore, the chemical bases for memory were investigated in the macromolecules of the brain. Such attempts were relatively unsuccessful, which led to a second period (starting in 1978) with the research emphasizing, in a less ambitious way, the role of the molecular correlates of mnesic processes, in particular in the main transmitter systems of the brain.
Age-related effects on circadian rhythms include reductions of rhythm amplitude, alterations in re-entrainment, and increased fragmentation. Currently, the pattern of these changes across an individuals' lifespan is unknown. The present study used a cross-sequential experimental design to determine the pattern of circadian rhythm changes, identify predictors of later circadian rhythm disruption, and assess the effect of prior run-wheel experience on circadian rhythms. Run-wheel activity was assessed in senescence-accelerated mice (SAMP8) at 2, 7, and 12 months of age. Age-related changes included decrease of run-wheel activity, decrease in circadian rhythm amplitude, increase in proportion of light activity, and increase in split activity rhythms. Proportion of light activity at 2 months was a good predictor of circadian rhythm disruption at 7 months. Run-wheel experience increased overall activity and decreased proportion of light activity, but did not alter rhythm amplitude or period. These results demonstrate that aging produces several patterns of circadian rhythm changes, describe predictive measures of future rhythm disruptions, and suggest an intervention to reduce circadian rhythm disruptions.
Cytochrome c oxidase (COX) activity reportedly is reduced in Alzheimer's disease (AD) brain and platelets. The reasons for the defect in either tissue are unknown, but its presence in a non-degenerating tissue suggests it is not simply a consequence of neurodegeneration. We now offer confirmation of the AD platelet COX defect. Compared to age-matched controls, in mitochondria isolated from AD platelets there was a 15% decrease in COX activity despite the fact that COX subunits were present at normal levels. Platelet ATP levels were diminished in AD (from 11.33 +/- 0.52 to 9.11 +/- 0.72 nmol/mg), while reactive oxygen species (ROS) were increased (from 97.03 +/- 25.9 to 338.3 +/- 100 K/mg). Platelet membrane fluidity, Vitamin E, and cholesterol content were similar between groups. We conclude that COX catalytic activity is indeed diminished in AD platelet mitochondria, does not result from altered membrane fluidity, and is associated with ROS overproduction and ATP under-production.
Deposition of beta-amyloid protein in the brain is a neuropathological hallmark of Alzheimer's disease. An additional feature of this disease is an upregulation of the lysosomal system, however, the role of lysosomal proteins in the pathogenesis of this neurodegenerative condition is unclear. In this study, we demonstrate that Abeta increases activity of the lysosomal protease, cathepsin-L, and promotes a transient increase in cytosolic expression of cathepsin-L in cultured cortical neurones. The increase in cathepsin-L activity and concentration in the cytosol is evident 6 h following beta-amyloid treatment. The proclivity of beta-amyloid to induce apoptotic changes, such as activation of caspase-3, cleavage of the DNA repair enzyme, poly-ADP ribose polymerase, and DNA fragmentation, were prevented by the selective cathepsin-L inhibitor Z-FF-FMK. In contrast, beta-amyloid had no effect on expression levels or cellular distribution of cathepsin-D and the cathepsin-D inhibitor peptide failed to protect cortical neurones from beta-amyloid-induced apoptosis. Thus, the results from this study demonstrate that beta-amyloid impacts on cathepsin-L as an upstream event in the neurodegenerative process and this result highlights the potential role of lysosomal components in the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease.


The beta-amyloid precursor protein (APP) plays a central role in Alzheimer's disease (AD) and appears to be a multifunctional protein. Secreted forms of APP (sAPP) have memory-enhancing effects in certain behavioral paradigms. To investigate sAPP's role in spatial memory processes, we adapted a spatial recognition task and evaluated (1) the performance of OF1 mice after massed training (single 15-min acquisition session) and distributed training (three 5-min acquisition sessions), (2) the decline of spatial recognition performance by introducing different delays (5min, 1, 3, and 24h) between the acquisition and retention phases, and (3) the effects of sAPP(695) on spatial recognition memory. In the present study, mice selectively reacted to a change in the spatial configuration of five objects. Indeed, 3min post-acquisition, mice performed similarly in the massed and distributed versions of the task, by re-exploring the two displaced objects only, whereas mice exposed to the same spatial configuration did not. Additionally, all mice did react to a novel object in a subsequent object recognition phase. Mice detected object displacements 5min, 1h, or 3h post-acquisition, but no more at a 24h-delay. Finally, mice treated with sAPP(695) intracerebroventricularly at a dose of 0.5pg/4microL/mouse, 20-min pre-acquisition or 5-min post-acquisition, still reacted to a spatial change in objects position 24h post-acquisition, in marked contrast to NaCl-treated mice. Our data demonstrate that sAPP(695) significantly improves a form of spatial memory, and confirms the hypothesis of an action of this protein on early memory processes.
Recent evidence has shown that abnormal signal transduction is related to non-pathological memory impairment among aged subjects. Members of the CREB family of transcription factors contain enhancers (i.e., CREB1) and repressors (i.e., CREB2) of transcription and interact with numerous signaling proteins to mediate the transition from short-term to long-term memory. In this study, quantitative Western blotting was used to determine the levels of CREB1 and CREB2 in homogenates from hippocampi of individual 6- and 24-month-old male Long-Evans rats trained first on a place-learning task in the Morris water maze, then on a transfer task. Based on spatial memory performance, aged rats were characterized into two groups; aged-unimpaired rats (AU) had scores within the range of the young (Y) and aged-impaired rats (AI) fell outside of that range. Overall, CREB1 protein was significantly lower in aged rats in comparison with young rats. Aposteriori analysis showed that this difference was due to a significant decrease in CREB1 levels among aged-impaired rats, whereas aged-unimpaired rats had CREB1 levels comparable to young rats. There was no significant change in levels of CREB2 protein between young and aged rats. These results show that the dysregulation of CREB1 protein may contribute to the spatial memory deficits observed among some aged subjects.
Recent high quality papers have renewed interest in the phenomenon of neurogenesis within the adult mammalian brain. Many studies now show that neurogenesis can be modulated by environmental factors including physical activity, stress, and learning. These findings have considerable implications for neuroscience in general, including the study of learning and memory, neural network plasticity, aging, neurodegeneration, and the recovery from brain injury. Although new light has been shed on this field, many contradictory findings have been reported. Here we propose two principle issues which underlie these inconsistencies, with particular focus on the interaction between learning and neurogenesis. The first issue relates to the basic methodology of measuring the generation of new brain cells, i.e., proliferation, as compared to survival of the newly made cells. Mostly, measures of neurogenesis reported are a combination of proliferation and survival, making it impossible to distinguish between these separate processes. The second aspect is in regards to the role of environmental factors which can affect both proliferation and survival independently. Especially the interaction between stress and learning is of importance since these might counteract each other in some circumstances. Reviewing the literature while taking these issues into account indicates that, in contrast to some findings, cell proliferation in the dentate gyrus of the hippocampus as a result of learning cannot be ruled out yet. On the other hand, increased survival of granule cells in the dentate gyrus as a result of hippocampal-dependent learning has been clearly demonstrated. Moreover, this learning-induced survival of granule cells, which were born before the actual learning experience, might provide a molecular mechanism for the 'use it or lose it' principle.
Munc18-1 (p67, nSec1, rbSec1), a neuron-specific 67kDa protein was independently identified as a syntaxin-binding protein, and as a component that co-purifies with, and regulates the kinase activity of cyclin dependent kinase (Cdk5). Gene knockout studies have demonstrated a role for Munc18-1 in synaptic vesicle docking and neurotransmitter release. Mice lacking Munc18-1 gene were synaptically silent, but the gene deletion did not prevent normal brain assembly, including the formation of layered structures, fiber pathways and morphologically defined synapses. Previous study has shown that Munc18-1 facilitates Cdk5 mediated phosphorylation of KSPXK domains of the neuronal cytoskeletal elements, suggesting that Munc18-1 may function in the regulation of cytoskeletal dynamics. Present study demonstrates the co-purification and co-localization of Munc18 with cytoskeletal elements and forms first step towards understanding the role for Munc18-1 in cytoskeletal dynamics. Conversely, the cytoskeletal proteins and Cdk5 co-purifies with Munc18-1 in a Munc18-1 immuno-affinity chromatography, suggesting a strong protein-protein interaction. Findings from immunofluorescence studies in PC12 cells have shown co-localization of Munc18-1 and Cdk5 with neurofilaments and microtubules. Further, immunohistochemical and immuno-electron microscopic studies of rat olfactory bulb also demonstrated co-localization of Munc18-1 and Cdk5 with cytoskeletal elements. Thus, the biochemical evidence of strong interaction between Munc18-1 with cytoskeletal proteins and morphological evidence of their (Munc18 and cytoskeletal elements) identical sub-cellular localization is suggestive of the possible role for Munc18-1 in cytoskeletal dynamics.
Volume regulated anion channels (VRAC) have been extensively studied in purified single cell systems like cell cultures where they can be activated by cell swelling. This provides a convenient way of analyzing mechanisms and will likely lead to the holy grails of the field, namely the nature or natures of the volume sensor and the nature or natures of VRACs. Important reasons for such an understanding are that these channels are ubiquitous and have important physiological functions which under pathological conditions convert to deleterious effects. Here we summarize data showing the involvement of VRACs in ischemia-induced release of excitatory amino acids (EAAs) in a rat model of global ischemia. Using microdialysis studies we found that reversal of the astrocytic glutamate transporter and VRACs contribute about equally to the large initial release of EAAs and together account for around 80% of the total release. We used the very potent VRAC blocker, tamoxifen, to see if such inhibition of EAA release via VRACs led to significant neuroprotection. Treatment in the focal rat MCA occlusion model led to around 80% reduction in infarct size with an effective post initiation of ischemia therapeutic window of three hours. However, the common problem of other effects for even the most potent inhibitors pertains here, as tamoxifen has other, potentially neuroprotective, effects. Thus it inhibits nitrotyrosine formation, likely due to its inhibition of nNOS and reduction of peroxynitrite formation. Although tamoxifen cannot therefore be used as a test of the &quot;VRAC-excitotxicity&quot; hypothesis it may prove successful for translation of basic stroke research to the clinic because of its multiple targets.
Cultured cerebellar granule neurons (CGC) increase survival in a medium containing 25 mM KCl (K25), and they die apoptotically when cultures are treated with staurosporine (St) or are transferred to a 5-mM KCl containing medium (K5). Apoptotic CGC show nuclear condensation and caspase-3 activation. Cell death induced by these conditions was partially prevented when cultures were maintained under alkaline conditions, which also induced a marked reduction of the caspase-3 activation. The acidification of the medium further increased cell death induced by both stimuli. Cultures transferred to K5 suffered an immediate intracellular alkalinization that remained constant during the time K5 was present. In contrast, St did not modify cytosolic pH at any of the evaluated times. On the other hand, DIDS, furosemide, and bumetanide prevented CGC death induced by K5 and St. Other drugs such as amiloride, EIPA, tamoxifen, NEM, or NPPB did not modify cell death induced by these conditions. Both DIDS and bumetanide markedly inhibited the processing and activation of caspase-3, and DIDS prevented the nuclear condensation induced by K5 and St. These findings suggest that pH is a condition that could contribute to the modulation of cell death induced by some stimuli and that other ions, such as potassium, could have a role in the initial phase of apoptotic death of CGC.
We present data that summarize our findings on the role of taurine in the central nervous system and in particular taurine's interaction with the inhibitory and excitatory systems. In taurine-fed mice, the expression level of glutamic acid decarboxylase (GAD), the enzyme responsible for GABA synthesis, is elevated. Increased expression of GAD was accompanied by increased levels of GABA. We also found in vitro, that taurine regulates neuronal calcium homeostasis and calcium-dependent processes, such as protein kinase C (PKC) activity. This calcium-dependent kinase was regulated by taurine, whereas the activity of protein kinase A (PKA), a cAMP-dependent, calcium-independent kinase, was not affected. Furthermore, as a consequence of calcium regulation, taurine counteracted glutamate-induced mitochondrial damage and cell death.
Several members of the cation-chloride cotransporter (solute carrier family 12, SLC12) gene family are expressed within the central nervous system, with one family member, the K+-Cl- cotransporter KCC2, exclusive to neurons. These transporters are best known for their roles in cell volume regulation and epithelial salt transport, but are increasingly receiving attention in neuroscience. In particular, intracellular chloride activity and hence the neuronal response to GABA and glycine appears to be determined by a balance between chloride efflux and influx through KCC2 and the Na+-K+-2Cl- cotransporter NKCC1, respectively. This relationship has important implications for neuronal development, sensory perception, neuronal excitability, and the response to neuronal injury. Finally, the association between loss of function in the K+-Cl- cotransporter KCC3, with a severe peripheral neuropathy associated with agenesis of the corpus callosum, has revealed an unexpected role for K+-Cl- cotransport in the development and/or maintenance of both the central and peripheral nervous systems.



Dopamine inhibits pituitary melanotrope cells of the amphibian Xenopus laevis through activation of a dopamine (D2) receptor that couples to a Gi protein. Activated Gi protein subunits are known to affect voltage-operated Ca2+ currents (ICa). In the present study we investigated which Ca2+ currents are regulated by D2-receptor activation and which Gi protein subunits are involved. Whole-cell voltage-clamp patch-clamp experiments from holding potentials (HPs) of -80 and -30 mV show that 28.6 and 36.9%, respectively, of the total ICa was inhibited by apomorphin, a D2-receptor agonist. The inhibited current had fast activation and inactivation kinetics. From an HP of -80 mV, inhibition of N-type Ca2+ currents with omega-conotoxin GVIA and R-type current by SNX-482 reduced the efficacy of the apomorphin-induced inhibition. From an HP of -30 mV this reduction for omega-conotoxin GVIA was still observed. Blocking L-type current by nifedipine or P/Q-type current by omega-agatoxin IVA did not affect apomorphin-induced inhibition at either HP. Our results imply that D2-receptor activation inhibits both N- and R-type Ca2+ currents. Using a strong depolarizing pre-pulse partially reversed the inhibition of the total current by apomorphin. About 50% of this inhibition was achieved through interaction of Gbeta/gamma proteins, and this part of the inhibited ICa had fast activating and inactivating kinetics. However, the other part of the current inhibited by D2-receptor activation may proceed through Galpha-PKA phosphorylation.
G-protein-coupled receptor 135 (GPCR135), a former orphan GPCR also known as SALPR, has recently been shown to be modulated by relaxin-3 (R3). In addition to GPCR135, R3 has been shown to be an agonist for GPCR142 (which is a pseudogene in the rat) and to activate LGR7, which is primarily the receptor for relaxin-1/2. The interaction of R3 with LGR7 has confounded the autoradiographic study of the GPCR135 distribution in the rat CNS due to significant expression of LGR7 in the brain. R3/I5, a chimera of the B-chain of R3 bonded to the A-chain of INSL-5, is a specific GPCR135 agonist which is highly selective for GPCR135 over LGR7. [(125)I]R3/I5 specifically binds to sites on rat brain sections with a pharmacology matching results from membrane preparations of recombinant GPCR135 receptors. Autoradiographic studies show the GPCR135 receptor density is most prominent in areas such as the olfactory bulb, sensory cortex, amygdala, thalamus, paraventricular nucleus, supraoptic nucleus, inferior and superior colliculus. The GPCR135 mRNA distribution generally overlaps the pattern of GPCR135 binding sites shown by autoradiography using [(125)I]R3/I5. The nucleus incertus, which has been implicated in the extrapituitary actions of corticotropin-releasing hormone, is the primary source of R3 in the rat central nervous system and expresses GPCR135 receptors. These binding autoradiography and in situ hybridization data suggest that GPCR135 plays an important role in the central processing of sensory signals in rats, are consistent with a putative role for R3/GPCR135 as modulators of stress responses, and confirm the identity of R3 as the central nervous system ligand for GPCR135.
The aim of this study was to examine the expression of aromatase and receptors to steroid hormones in cultured motoneurons (MNs). We first developed an original method for obtaining rat MN cultures. Dissociated E15 rat spinal cords were purified using metrizamide and bovine serum albumin density gradients, and cells were then seeded on the culture substratum. We optimized the culture parameters and found that simple addition of rat muscle extract (ME) and conditioned culture medium (CM) from glial cell lines (GCL) derived from spinal cord were sufficient to obtain almost pure MN cultures. MNs were characterized by the presence of specific MN markers and electrophysiology. MNs could be kept alive for 2 weeks. We demonstrate that ME and CM are essential for MN development and survival respectively. Immunocytochemistry and aromatase activity assay indicated the presence of androgen and estrogen receptors as well as aromatase in MNs but not in GCL. This is the first report demonstrating the presence of both female and male sex hormone receptors and a key enzyme in steroid hormone metabolism in MNs and its absence in GCL, at least in our culture conditions. This in vitro model appears to be valuable for elucidating the impact of the sex hormone circuit in neuronal maturation. The relevance of this model for the comprehension of neurodegenerative diseases is discussed.
We have previously reported that inescapable tail shock (IS) produces persistent changes in hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis function. These changes are manifest as an elevation in basal corticosterone (CORT) levels, a sensitization of adrenocorticotropin hormone (ACTH) and CORT responses to subsequent challenge, and a failure of dexamethasone to suppress both the ACTH and CORT responses to a subsequent challenge. The experiments presented here examine IS-induced alterations in the responsiveness of the HPA axis, particularly at the level of the anterior pituitary. The data presented show that adrenalectomy does not abolish the IS-induced sensitization of the HPA axis, suggesting that the sensitization is not solely caused by a defect in glucocorticoid negative feedback. Analysis of gene expression in the anterior pituitary revealed that IS exposure persistently elevated basal levels of proopiomelanocortin (POMC; the precursor to ACTH) mRNA and sensitized the POMC hnRNA and c-fos mRNA response to a subsequent challenge. Analysis of gene expression in the parvocellular division of the paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus (pPVN) after IS exposure revealed that basal levels of corticotropin-releasing hormone (CRH) mature mRNA are elevated and the c-fos mRNA response to a subsequent challenge is enhanced. Finally, a blunted in vitro ACTH response to CRH challenge is observed after IS exposure. These data suggest that the ultimate source of the IS-induced sensitization is not the anterior pituitary and implicate an increased drive on the anterior pituitary from the pPVN.
Gender differences in serotonin (5-HT) metabolism, synthesis, and release suggest that the gonadal steroids estrogen (E) and progesterone (P) influence 5-HT neurotransmission. Based on the effects of ovarian steroids in forebrain sites, this might involve changes in the strength of GABA afferent tone in the dorsal raphe nucleus (DRN). To test this hypothesis, the present study used in vivo microdialysis to measure basal extracellular 5-HT in the rat DRN across the estrous cycle and changes in 5-HT in response to the GABA(A) receptor antagonists bicuculline (50 microM) and picrotoxin (50 microM). During proestrus and estrus, baseline 5-HT levels were significantly higher compared to ovariectomized (OVX) rats. Mean baseline levels across experiments were 8.4 +/- 1.3 pg/ 30 microl in proestrus, 5.2 +/- 0.8 pg/30 mul in estrus, and 3.1 +/- 0.5 pg/30 microl in the DRN of OVX rats. Bicuculline and picrotoxin produced significantly greater increases in 5-HT during proestrus compared to estrus. Moreover, in the DRN of OVX rats, bicuculline and picrotoxin produced negligible increases in 5-HT. These data provide evidence of decreased 5-HT efflux and GABA tone in the rat DRN associated with low circulating E and P.
Functional gastroenteropancreatic tumors express all 5 somatostatin receptor subtypes (sst) in different quantities. Octreotide and lanreotide treat patients with these tumors by binding preferentially to sst2 and, to a lesser extent, to sst3 and sst5 receptors, thereby controlling prominent symptoms caused by hormone hypersecretion (diarrhea and flushing). Although symptoms initially improve in most patients, a loss of response occurs in about 50% during continuous treatment. The functional activity at sst receptors of SOM230, a new multiligand somatostatin analog, has been described and compared with that of somatostatin (SRIF-14) and octreotide. These data show that SOM230 is a full agonist with nanomolar potency at sst(1,2,3) and sst5 receptors. The multiligand activity profile of SOM230, together with its nondesensitizing inhibitory effect on growth hormone and insulin-like growth factor-I secretion in rats, may underlie its successful use in clinical trials and its potential for use in refractory patients with carcinoid tumors.

Near-infrared spectroscopy (NIRS) and diffuse optical imaging (DOI) are finding widespread application in the study of human brain activation, motivating further application-specific development of the technology. NIRS and DOI offer the potential to quantify changes in deoxyhemoglobin (HbR) and total hemoglobin (HbT) concentration, thus enabling distinction of oxygen consumption and blood flow changes during brain activation. While the techniques implemented presently provide important results for cognition and the neurosciences through their relative measures of HbR and HbT concentrations, there is much to be done to improve sensitivity, accuracy, and resolution. In this paper, we review the advances currently being made and issues to consider for improving optical image quality. These include the optimal selection of wavelengths to minimize random and systematic error propagation in the calculation of the hemoglobin concentrations, the filtering of systemic physiological signal clutter to improve sensitivity to the hemodynamic response to brain activation, the implementation of overlapping measurements to improve image spatial resolution and uniformity, and the utilization of spatial prior information from structural and functional MRI to reduce DOI partial volume error and improve image quantitative accuracy.
The brain appears to adhere to two fundamental principles of functional organisation, functional integration and functional specialisation, where the integration within and among specialised areas is mediated by effective connectivity. In this paper, we review two different approaches to modelling effective connectivity from fMRI data, structural equation models (SEMs) and dynamic causal models (DCMs). In common to both approaches are model comparison frameworks in which inferences can be made about effective connectivity per se and about how that connectivity can be changed by perceptual or cognitive set. Underlying the two approaches, however, are two very different generative models. In DCM, a distinction is made between the 'neuronal level' and the 'hemodynamic level'. Experimental inputs cause changes in effective connectivity expressed at the level of neurodynamics, which in turn cause changes in the observed hemodynamics. In SEM, changes in effective connectivity lead directly to changes in the covariance structure of the observed hemodynamics. Because changes in effective connectivity in the brain occur at a neuronal level DCM is the preferred model for fMRI data. This review focuses on the underlying assumptions and limitations of each model and demonstrates their application to data from a study of attention to visual motion.
Cortical flattening algorithms are becoming more widely used to assist in visualizing the convoluted cortical gray matter sheet of the brain. Metric-based approaches are the most common but suffer from high distortions. Conformal, or angle-based algorithms, are supported by a comprehensive mathematical theory. The conformal approach that uses circle packings is versatile in the manipulation and display of results. In addition, it offers some new and interesting metrics that may be useful in neuroscientific analysis and are not available through numerical partial differential equation conformal methods. In this paper, we begin with a brief description of cortical &quot;flat&quot; mapping, from data acquisition to map displays, including a brief review of past flat mapping approaches. We then describe the mathematics of conformal geometry and key elements of conformal mapping. We introduce the mechanics of circle packing and discuss its connections with conformal geometry. Using a triangulated surface representing a cortical hemisphere, we illustrate several manipulations available using circle packing methods and describe the associated &quot;ensemble conformal features&quot; (ECFs). We conclude by discussing current and potential uses of conformal methods in neuroscience and computational anatomy.
Segmentation and mapping of the human cerebral cortex from magnetic resonance (MR) images plays an important role in neuroscience and medicine. This paper describes a comprehensive approach for cortical reconstruction, flattening, and sulcal segmentation. Robustness to imaging artifacts and anatomical consistency are key achievements in an overall approach that is nearly fully automatic and computationally fast. Results demonstrating the application of this approach to a study of cortical thickness changes in aging are presented.
We evaluated the effects of estrogen and tamoxifen, a selective estrogen receptor modulator, on positron emission tomography (PET) measures of brain glucose metabolism and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) measures of hippocampal atrophy. Three groups of postmenopausal women were studied, women taking estrogen (ERT+), women with breast cancer taking tamoxifen (TAM), and women not taking estrogen or tamoxifen (ERT-). All subjects received a PET scan, an MRI scan, and cognitive testing. The TAM group showed widespread areas of hypometabolism in the inferior and dorsal lateral frontal lobes relative to the other two groups. The ERT- group showed lower metabolism in the inferior frontal cortex and temporal cortex with respect to the ERT+ group. The TAM group also showed significantly lower semantic memory scores than the other two groups. Finally, the TAM group had smaller right hippocampal volumes than the ERT+ group, an effect that was of borderline significance. Both right and left hippocampal volumes were significantly smaller than the ERT+ group when a single outlier was removed. The ERT- group had hippocampal volumes that were intermediate to the other two groups. These findings provide physiological and anatomical evidence for neuroprotective effects of estrogen.
11C-labeled neuroreceptor ligands frequently require long scan durations to quantify ligand-receptor binding. In this paper, we compare the accuracy of two three-dimensional (3D) positron emission tomography (PET) reconstructions: ordered-subset expectation-maximization (OS-EM) versus filtered backprojection (FBP) under low count rate conditions exhibited by 11C neuroreceptor studies. Data were obtained from a dynamic 11C phantom acquisition as well as six dynamic human [11C] WAY-100635 studies, all acquired in 3D mode using the EXACT HR+ PET scanner. Model-based scatter correction of the phantom datum was found to overcorrect in low count rate situations producing a negative bias in FBP reconstruction and a positive bias in OS-EM reconstruction, the OS-EM bias attributed to the non-negativity constraint of sinogram values. In the phantom OS-EM and FBP, reconstruction bias occurred at activities less than 25 Bq/cm3. In the human cerebellum, OS-EM deviated from FBP at activities less than 50 Bq/cm3. The total volume of distribution (VT), as determined from the metabolite corrected arterial input function and a two-tissue compartment kinetic model, was more sensitive to the positive bias of OS-EM than the negative bias of FBP at low count rates. To avoid reconstruction bias with 3D PET studies using the HR+, the scan duration should be limited so as to yield a final non-decay-corrected activity concentration of no less than 50 Bq/cm3. In neuroreceptor studies, if such a low count rate cannot be avoided, FBP reconstruction is preferable to OS-EM to estimate VT.
Analysis techniques comparing groups or conditions that vary in performance are open to a possible confound driven by those performance differences, if these errors are ignored. Disproportionate numbers of errors may either introduce noise into the signal of interest or confound the signal of interest with additional signal associated with specific error-related processes. Two inhibitory task datasets were reanalysed, one comparing young and elderly groups, the other comparing high and low conflict conditions within the same group of subjects. The data were analysed twice using event-related techniques, one treating correct and error responses separately, the other treating error responses as if they were correct. It was found that the activation maps differed considerably, with the inclusion of errors leading to many false positive and false negative activation clusters. Using performance as a covariate, analyses of covariance (ANCOVA) were used to try to correct these differences without success. Data simulations that varied the number of errors included in the analyses found that surprisingly few errors could significantly alter activation maps. Consequently, brain-imaging investigations that do not accommodate error contributions to functional signals are at risk of misinterpreting activation patterns.
The Stroop interference effect, caused by difficulty inhibiting overlearned word reading, is often more pronounced in older adults. This has been proposed to be due to declines in inhibitory control and frontal lobe functions with aging. Initial neuroimaging studies of inhibitory control show that older adults have enhanced activation in multiple frontal areas, particularly in inferior frontal gyrus, indicative of recruitment to aid with performance of the task. The current study compared 13 younger and 13 older adults, all healthy and well educated, who completed a Stroop test during functional magnetic resonance imaging. Younger adults were more accurate across conditions, and both groups were slower and less accurate during the interference condition. The groups exhibited comparable activation regions, but older adults exhibited greater activation in numerous frontal areas, including the left inferior frontal gyrus. The results support the recruitment construct and suggest, along with previous research, that the inferior frontal gyrus is important for successful inhibition.

We use a computational neuroscience approach to study the role of feature-based attention in visual perception. This model is used to numerically simulate a visual attention experiment. The neurodynamical system consists of many interconnected modules that can be related to the dorsal and ventral paths of the visual cortex. The biased competition hypothesis is taken into account within the model. From the experimental point of view, measurements exist, which confirm that feature-based attention influences visual cortical responses to stimuli outside the attended location. These measurements show that attention to a given stimulus attribute (in this case &quot;color red&quot;) increases the response of cortical visual areas to a spatially distant, ignored stimulus that shares the same attribute. Our neurodynamical model is used to numerically compute the neural activity of area V4 corresponding to such ignored stimulus, giving a good description of the experimental data.
Gray matter changes have been demonstrated in several regions in schizophrenia. Particularly, the frontal and temporal cortices and amygdala-hippocampal region have been found decreased in volume and density in magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) studies. These abnormalities may reflect an aberrant neuronal network in schizophrenia, suggesting that white matter fibers connecting these regions may also be affected. However, it is unclear if particular white matter areas are (progressively) affected in schizophrenia and if these are related to the gray matter changes. Focal white matter changes in schizophrenia were studied in whole brain magnetic resonance images acquired from 159 patients with schizophrenia or schizophreniform disorder and 158 healthy comparison subjects using voxel-based morphometry. White matter density changes in the patients with schizophrenia were correlated to gray matter density changes and to illness severity. In the patients with schizophrenia, significant decreases in white matter density were found in the genu and truncus of the corpus callosum in the left and right hemisphere, in the right anterior internal capsule and in the right anterior commissure. No interactions between diagnosis and age were found. Increased illness severity was correlated with low density of the corpus callosum and anterior commissure. Decreased corpus callosum density correlated with decreased density of thalamus, lateral inferior frontal and insular gray matter in patients and controls and with decreased density of medial orbitofrontal and superior temporal gyri in patients. Decreased internal capsule and anterior commissure density correlated with increased caudate, and globus pallidus density in patients and controls. These findings suggest aberrant inter-hemispheric connectivity of anterior cortical and sub-cortical brain regions in schizophrenia, reflecting decreased hemispheric specialisation in schizophrenia.


This paper introduces a method for generation and validation of a probabilistic functional brain atlas of subcortical structures from electrophysiological and neuroimaging data. The method contains three major steps: (1) acquisition of pre, intra, and postoperative multimodal data; (2) selection of an accurate data set for atlas generation; and (3) generation of the atlas from the selected data set. The method is applied to construct the probabilistic functional atlas of the human subthalamic nucleus (STN). The STN atlas has been built from data collected during surgical treatment of 184 patients with Parkinson's disease. It is based on preoperative X-ray ventriculography imaging, intraoperative electrophysiological measurements and X-ray imaging, and postoperative neurological assessment. The atlas features a high resolution of 0.25 mm(3) and a high accuracy of 0.25 mm. It is dynamic and can be rapidly recalculated for arbitrary resolution and extended by adding new patient data. The atlas can easily be reformatted and warped to match patient-specific data. Its applications include planning of subthalamic stimulations and neuroscience research to study functional properties of the STN. The presented method is general and can be applied for constructing human and animal probabilistic brain atlases.
We describe a method for mining a neuroimaging database for associations between text and brain locations. The objective is to discover association rules between words indicative of cognitive function as described in abstracts of neuroscience papers and sets of reported stereotactic Talairach coordinates. We invoke a simple probabilistic framework in which kernel density estimates are used to model distributions of brain activation foci conditioned on words in a given abstract. The principal associations are found in the joint probability density between words and voxels. We show that the statistically motivated associations are well aligned with general neuroscientific knowledge.

Common themes underlying three recent studies of mine on disparate topics are reviewed: the lamination of sensory cortex; the differentiation into subfields of the mammalian hippocampus; and the neuronal dynamics that might underlie the faculty for language in the human frontal lobes. These studies all discuss the evolution of cortical networks in terms of their computations, quantified by simulating simplified formal models. They all dwell on the interrelationship between qualitative and quantitative change. Finally, they all include, as a necessary ingredient of the relevant computational mechanism, a simple feature of pyramidal cell biophysics: firing rate adaptation.


Multivariate Autoregressive time series models (MAR) are an increasingly used tool for exploring functional connectivity in Neuroimaging. They provide the framework for analyzing the Granger Causality of a given brain region on others. In this article, we shall limit our attention to linear MAR models, in which a set of matrices of autoregressive coefficients Ak (k = 1,...,p) describe the dependence of present values of the image on lagged values of its past. Methods for estimating the Ak and determining which elements that are zero are well-known and are the basis for directed measures of influence. However, to date, MAR models are limited in the number of time series they can handle, forcing the a priori selection of a (small) number of voxels or regions of interest for analysis. This ignores the full spatio-temporal nature of functional brain data which are, in fact, collections of time series sampled over an underlying continuous spatial manifold the brain. A fully spatio-temporal MAR model (ST-MAR) is developed within the framework of functional data analysis. For spatial data, each row of a matrix Ak is the influence field of a given voxel. A Bayesian ST-MAR model is specified in which the influence fields for all voxels are required to vary smoothly over space. This requirement is enforced by penalizing the spatial roughness of the influence fields. This roughness is calculated with a discrete version of the spatial Laplacian operator. A massive reduction in dimensionality of computations is achieved via the singular value decomposition, making an interactive exploration of the model feasible. Use of the model is illustrated with an fMRI time series that was gathered concurrently with EEG in order to analyze the origin of resting brain rhythms.
The study of functional interdependences between brain regions is a rapidly growing focus of neuroscience research. This endeavor has been greatly facilitated by the appearance of a number of innovative methodologies for the examination of neurophysiological and neuroimaging data. The aim of this article is to present an overview of dynamical measures of interdependence and contrast these with statistical measures that have been more widely employed. We first review the motivation, conceptual basis, and experimental approach of dynamical measures of interdependence and their application to the study of neural systems. A consideration of boot-strap &quot;surrogate data&quot; techniques, which facilitate hypothesis testing of dynamical measures, is then used to clarify the difference between dynamical and statistical measures of interdependence. An overview of some of the most active research areas such as the study of the &quot;synchronization manifold,&quot; dynamical interdependence in neurophysiology data and the putative role of nonlinear desynchronization is then given. We conclude by suggesting that techniques based on dynamical interdependence--or &quot;dynamical connectivity&quot;--show significant potential for extracting meaningful information from functional neuroimaging data.
The enormous scale and complexity of data sets in functional neuroimaging makes it crucial to have well-designed and flexible software for image processing, modeling, and statistical analysis. At present, researchers must choose between general purpose scientific computing environments (e.g., Splus and Matlab), and specialized human brain mapping packages that implement particular analysis strategies (e.g., AFNI, SPM, VoxBo, FSL or FIASCO). For the vast majority of users in Human Brain Mapping and Cognitive Neuroscience, general purpose computing environments provide an insufficient framework for a complex data-analysis regime. On the other hand, the operational particulars of more specialized neuroimaging analysis packages are difficult or impossible to modify and provide little transparency or flexibility to the user for approaches other than massively multiple comparisons based on inferential statistics derived from linear models. In order to address these problems, we have developed open-source software that allows a wide array of data analysis procedures. The RUMBA software includes programming tools that simplify the development of novel methods, and accommodates data in several standard image formats. A scripting interface, along with programming libraries, defines a number of useful analytic procedures, and provides an interface to data analysis procedures. The software also supports a graphical functional programming environment for implementing data analysis streams based on modular functional components. With these features, the RUMBA software provides researchers programmability, reusability, modular analysis tools, novel data analysis streams, and an analysis environment in which multiple approaches can be contrasted and compared. The RUMBA software retains the flexibility of general scientific computing environments while adding a framework in which both experts and novices can develop and adapt neuroimaging-specific analyses.
The NeuroHomology Database system (NHDB) combines databases related to brain structures from different species with different knowledge management systems (KMSs) for systematization, evaluation and processing neurobiological data. Special attention is assessment of similarity of data from different species as a basis for exploring neural homologies. NHDB includes modules that handle brain structure and connectivity data, as well as inference engines for evaluation of the stored neurobiological information. The spatial inference engine evaluates the possible topological relations between cortical structures in different neuroanatomical atlases. The connectivity inference engine evaluates the reliability of information pertaining to fiber tracts as those are reflected in the literature. The inference engine for translation of neuroanatomical connections in different atlases evaluates the probability of existence of connections of interest in different parcellation schemes. Finally, the similarity inference engine calculates the overall degree of similarity of pairs of brain structures from different species by taking into account a set of eight criteria. We present examples of search for information in NHDB system, inferences of relations between cortical structures from equivalent neuroanatomical atlases, reconstruction of functional networks of brain structures from data collated from the literature, translation of connectivity matrices in equivalent parcellation schemes, and evaluations of similarities of brain structures from humans, macaques and rats.
Deep brain stimulation (DBS) therapy is a continually expanding field of functional neurosurgery for the treatment of movement disorders and neuropathic pain. However, occurrence of adverse events related to implanted hardware cannot be ignored, particularly in patients with dystonic conditions. We report on two such patients who required emergency hospital admission and pulse generator re-implantation following sudden and unexpected cessation of DBS effectiveness resulting from battery failure.
Administration of triacetyluridine (TAU) is a means of delivering exogenous pyrimidines to the brain, which may help to compensate for bioenergetic defects. TAU has previously been shown to be neuroprotective in animal models of Huntington's and Alzheimer's diseases. We examined whether oral administration of TAU in the diet could exert significant neuroprotective effects against 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP) neurotoxicity model of Parkinson's disease. Administration of TAU significantly attenuated MPTP-induced depletion of striatal dopamine and loss of tyrosine-hydroxylase-positive neurons in the substantia nigra. These findings suggest that administration of TAU may be a novel approach for treating neurodegenerative diseases associated with impaired mitochondrial function.
Studies using genetic manipulations have proven invaluable in the research of neurological disorders. In the forefront of these approaches is the knockout technology that engineers a targeted gene mutation in mice resulting in inactivation of gene expression. In many cases, important roles of a particular gene in embryonic development have precluded the in vivo study of its function in the adult brain, which is usually the most relevant experimental context for the study of neurological disorders. The conditional knockout technology has provided a tool to overcome this restriction and has been used successfully to generate viable mouse models with gene inactivation patterns in certain regions or cell types of the postnatal brain. This review first describes the methodology of gene targeting in mice, detailing the aspects of designing a targeting vector, introducing it into embryonic stem cells in culture and screening for correct recombination events, and generating chimeric and null mutant mice from the positive clones. It then discusses the special issues and considerations for the generation of conditional knockout mice, including a section about approaches for inducible gene inactivation in the brain and some of their applications. An overview of gene-targeted mouse models that have been used in the study of several neurological disorders, including Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's disease, Huntington's disease, seizure disorders, and schizophrenia, is also presented. The importance of the results obtained by these models for the understanding of the pathogenic mechanism underlying the disorders is discussed.
There is increasing evidence that administration of histone deacetylase (HDAC) inhibitors can exert neuroprotective effects by a variety of mechanisms. Phenylbutyrate is a well-known HDAC inhibitor, which increases gene transcription of a number of genes, and also exerts neuroprotective effects. These include several antioxidant enzymes, chaperones, and genes involved in cell survival. We examined whether administration of phenylbutyrate could exert significant neuroprotective effects against 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP), which has been used to model Parkinson's disease. Administration of phenylbutyrate significantly attenuated MPTP-induced depletion of striatal dopamine and loss of tyrosine hydroxylase-positive neurons in the substantia nigra. These findings provide further evidence that administration of phenylbutyrate may be a useful approach for the treatment of neurodegenerative diseases.
The signaling mechanisms by which brain macrophages and microglia (BMM) respond to injury and disease, and how their responses affect neurodegenerative processes are largely unknown. Here we show that bone marrow transplantation can be used to introduce genetically modified BMM into the adult mouse brain to reveal the functions of one or more BMM genes in neuronal injury responses. Mice in which endogenous BMM were replaced with cells from mice lacking p55 and p75 tumor necrosis factor (TNF) receptors exhibit increased vulnerability of hippocampal neurons to excitotoxic injury suggesting a role for TNF signaling in BMM in the excitotoxic injury response. Neurons in the brains of mice with BMM lacking nitric oxide synthase exhibit reduced protein nitration and are less vulnerable to excitotoxic damage, indicating a pivotal role for BMM nitric oxide production in excitotoxic neuronal damage.
Selective degeneration and death of motor neurons in SOD1 mutant-mediated amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is accompanied by axonal disorganization and reduced slow axonal transport in the three most frequently used mouse models of mutant SOD1-mediated ALS. To test whether suppression of axonal degeneration (frequently known as Wallerian degeneration) could slow disease development, we took advantage of a spontaneous mouse mutant Wld(s) (Wallerian degeneration slow) in which the programmed axonal degenerative process that is normally activated after axonal injury is significantly delayed. Despite its effectiveness in delaying axonal loss in other neurodegenerative models, the presence of Wld(s) did not slow disease onset, ameliorate mutant motor neuron death, axonal degeneration, or preserve synaptic attachments in mice that develop disease from ALS-linked SOD1 mutants SOD1G37R or SOD1G85R. However, presynaptic endings in both the presence and absence of Wld(s) showed high accumulations of mitochondria and synaptic vesicles, implicating errors of retrograde transport as a consequence of SOD1-mutant damage to axons.
The gene encoding alpha-T-catenin, CTNNA3, is positioned within a region on chromosome 10, showing strong evidence of linkage to Alzheimer's disease (AD), and is therefore a good positional candidate gene for this disorder. We have demonstrated that alpha-T-catenin is expressed in human brain, and like other alpha-catenins, it inhibits Wnt signaling and is therefore also a functional candidate. We initially genotyped two single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in the gene, in four independent samples comprising over 1200 cases and controls but failed to detect an association with either SNP. Similarly, we found no evidence for association between CTNNA3 and AD in a sample of subjects showing linkage to chromosome 10, nor were these SNPs associated with Abeta deposition in brain. To comprehensively screen the gene, we genotyped 30 additional SNPs in a subset of the cases and controls (n &gt; 700). None of these SNPs was associated with disease. Although an excellent candidate, we conclude that CTNNA3 is unlikely to account for the AD susceptibility locus on chromosome 10.
Matrix metalloproteinases (MMPs) are proteolytic enzymes capable of degrading components of the extracellular matrix. Recent evidence has implicated MMPs in the pathogenesis of neurodegenerative diseases as Alzheimer's disease and amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. In this study, we investigated the involvement of MMP-9 (gelatinase B) in the 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP) mouse model of Parkinson's disease using zymography, immunohistochemistry, and Western blot analysis. The activity of MMP-9 was upregulated at 3 h after MPTP injection in the striatum and after 24 h in the substantia nigra. Although MMP-9 expression decreased in the striatum by 72 h, it remained elevated in the substantia nigra compared to controls up to 7 d after MPTP administration. Immunohistochemistry showed that neurons and microglia are the source of MMP-9 expression after MPTP administration to mice. Treatment with a hydroxamate-based MMP inhibitor, Ro 28-2653 significantly reduced dopamine depletion and loss of tyrosine hydroxylase immunoreactive neurons in the substantia nigra pars compacta. MMP-9 expression as measured via zymography in the substantia nigra was reduced by the MMP inhibitor. These results indicate that MMP-9 is induced after MPTP application in mice and that pharmacologic inhibition of MMPs protects against MPTP neurotoxicity.
The involvement of neurotrophic factors in neuronal survival and differentiation is well established. The more recent realization that these factors also play pivotal roles in the maintenance and activity-dependent remodeling of neuronal functioning in the adult brain has generated excitement in the neurosciences. Neurotrophic factors have been implicated in the modulation of synaptic transmission and in the mechanisms underlying learning and memory, mood disorders, and drug addiction. Here the evidence for the role of neurotrophins and other neurotrophic factors-and the signaling pathways they activate-in mediating long-term molecular, cellular, and behavioral adaptations associated with drug addiction is reviewed.
Adult neurogenesis has been established as a further mechanism of neural plasticity in the adult nervous system, and numerous studies are beginning to provide insights into the functional purposes and consequences for this new mode of neuroadaptation. These studies have approached the problem from a molecular scale, attempting to identify signaling factors that regulate stem cell function, as well as a systems or behavioral level, attempting to establish correlative and potentially causal links between neurogenesis and behavior. These two approaches have begun to reveal several potential functions for adult hippocampal neurogenesis, including adaptive roles in learning and memory, adaptation to novel environments, potential links to depression and moods, and possible responses to injury. The further implementation and convergence of these two approaches and the development of new methods to study the problem will yield further insights into both what are the many neuroadaptive roles of neurogenesis and potential means to harness it for neuroregeneration.
Delta9-Tetrahydrocannabinol from Cannabis sativa is mimicked by cannabimimetic analogs such as CP55940 and WIN55212-2, and antagonized by rimonabant and SR144528, through G-protein-coupled receptors, CB1 in the brain, and CB2 in the immune system. Eicosanoids anandamide and 2-arachidonoylglycerol are the &quot;endocannabinoid&quot; agonists for these receptors. CB1 receptors are abundant in basal ganglia, hippocampus and cerebellum, and their functional activity can be mapped during behaviors using cerebral metabolism as the neuroimaging tool. CB1 receptors couple to G(i/o) to inhibit cAMP production, decrease Ca2+ conductance, increase K+ conductance, and increase mitogen-activated protein kinase activity. Functional activation of G-proteins can be imaged by [35S]GTPgammaS autoradiography. Post-synaptically generated endocannabinoids form the basis of a retrograde signaling mechanism referred to as depolarization-induced suppression of inhibition (DSI) or excitation (DSE). Under circumstances of sufficient intracellular Ca2+ (e.g., burst activity in seizures), synthesis of endocannabinoids releases a diffusible retrograde messenger to stimulate presynaptic CB1 receptors. This results in suppression of gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) release, thereby relieving the post-synaptic inhibition. Tolerance develops as neurons adjust both receptor number and cellular signal transduction to the chronic administration of cannabinoid drugs. Future therapeutic drug design can progress based upon our current understanding of the physiology and pharmacology of CB1, CB2 and related receptors. One very important role for CB1 antagonists will be in the treatment of craving in the disease of substance abuse.
The roots of the Laboratory of the Biology of the Addictive Diseases are in the development of methadone maintenance for the treatment of opiate addiction. Methadone maintenance therapy continues to be one of the major effective forms of addiction pharmacotherapy and underscores the importance of biological factors in the physiology and treatment of the addictive diseases. Recent work in the Laboratory has focused on the neurobiological, neurochemical, neuroendocrine and behavioral aspects of addictive diseases (principally cocaine and the opiate addictions), using an interdisciplinary approach. The models we have focused on range from in vitro molecular biology and neuroscience, to in vivo animal models, to experiments in normal human populations and patients with specific addictive diseases, and most recently to the human molecular genetics of different addictive diseases. Two long-term corollary hypotheses have guided the Laboratory's work: (1) That the endogenous opioid peptide/receptor systems play a central role in the addictive states and therefore in their treatment. (2) That atypical responsivity to stressors (e.g., in the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis) plays a role in vulnerability and relapse to specific addictive diseases. This atypical responsivity may be drug-induced, environmentally acquired, and/or due to genetic variation.
Identification of opiate receptors some 30 years ago provided tools that brought major new insights into how these drugs act and led to the discovery of a novel group of atypical neurotransmitters, the peptide enkephalins being the first. The ligand binding techniques that were used to identify opiate receptors were employed to characterize receptors for all of the major neurotransmitters in the brain leading to additional insights into the actions of many drugs, such as neuroleptics. These techniques also permitted characterization of intracellular signaling systems such as the IP3 receptor and immunophilins. Even more novel than the enkephalins have been the gaseous neurotransmitters NO and CO and D-serine.
Using a rat model of drug craving and relapse, we recently found that cocaine seeking induced by re-exposure to drug-associated cues progressively increases over the first 2 months after withdrawal from cocaine self-administration, suggesting that drug craving incubates over time [Nature 412 (2001) 141]. Here, we summarize data from studies that further characterized this incubation phenomenon and briefly discuss its implications for drug addiction. The main findings of our ongoing research are: 1. Incubation of cocaine craving is long-lasting, but not permanent: cocaine seeking induced by exposure to cocaine cues remains elevated for up to 3 months of withdrawal, but decreases after 6 months. 2. Incubation of reward craving is not drug specific: sucrose seeking induced by re-exposure to the reward cues also increases after withdrawal, but for a time period that is shorter than that of cocaine. 3. Incubation of cocaine craving is not evident after acute re-exposure to cocaine itself: cocaine seeking induced by cocaine priming injections remains essentially unchanged over the first 6 months of withdrawal. 4. Incubation of cocaine craving after withdrawal is associated with increases in the levels of brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) in mesolimbic dopamine areas.
Addictive drugs are thought to activate brain circuitry that normally mediates more natural rewards such as food or water. Drugs activate this circuitry at synaptic junctions within the brain; identifying the junctions at which this occurs provides clues to the neurochemical and anatomical characteristics of the circuitry. One approach to identifying the junctions at which drugs interact with this circuitry is to determine if animals will lever-press for site-specific microinjections of addictive drugs. This approach has identified GABAergic, dopaminergic, glutamatergic, and cholinergic trigger zones within meso-corticolimbic circuitry important for natural reward function.
The rapidly growing field of proteomics seeks to track changes in protein expression function that underlie the growth and differentiation of individual cell types, both during normal development and during the onset and progression of disease. Recent years have seen great strides in mRNA expression analysis, and the development of new technologies for protein profiling. However, current methods are limited to analysis of the relative expression level of only a few hundred to perhaps 2000 proteins, well below the ability of DNA microarrays to potentially interrogate the mRNA expression of more than 25,000 genes. Proteomics faces a special challenge in studies of the nervous system, where cellular and sub-cellular architecture is among the most complex in the body. This article presents an overview of current proteomic profiling technologies, reviews the recent use of some of these approaches in studies of the nervous system, and discusses the potential application of neuroproteomics to studies of drug addiction.
Dopamine (DA) and the DA transporter (DAT) play important roles in psychomotor stimulant behavioral activation and reward. By understanding how DAT activity is regulated, we will better appreciate its contribution to normal neurotransmission and to brain diseases like drug addiction. DAT is regulated long-term by chronic drug administration. It is also regulated in a rapid, dynamic fashion by many factors--including brief exposure to DAT substrates, e.g. DA and amphetamine, and inhibitors, e.g. cocaine. We found that individual differences in the initial and sensitized locomotor responsiveness of rats to cocaine reflect differences in in vivo DAT function. Our ex vivo studies have further suggested that differences in basal and/or rapid cocaine-induced expression of functional DATs in striatum contribute to the differences in initial responsiveness. Studies in model systems have demonstrated that short-term DAT regulation occurs by altered transporter trafficking, and thereby cell surface expression. For example, a rapid, complex regulation of DAT by DA is suggested. Amphetamine causes DAT internalization into early endosomal compartments whereas cocaine appears to up-regulate surface expression of DAT. Future studies are needed to confirm these observations in neurons, as well as to elucidate the mechanisms of rapid DAT endocytic trafficking at neuronal synapses.
Considerable evidence suggests that neuroadaptations leading to addiction involve the same glutamate-dependent cellular mechanisms that enable learning and memory. Long-term potentiation (LTP) and long-term depression (LTD) have therefore become an important focus of addiction research. This article reviews: (1) basic mechanisms underlying LTP and LTD, (2) the properties of LTP and LTD in ventral tegmental area, nucleus accumbens, dorsal striatum and prefrontal cortex, (3) studies demonstrating that psychomotor stimulants influence LTP or LTD in these brain regions. In addition, we discuss our recent work on cellular mechanisms by which dopamine may influence LTP and LTD. Based on evidence that AMPA receptors are inserted into synapses during LTP and removed during LTD, we investigated the effects of D1 receptor stimulation on AMPA receptor trafficking using primary cultures prepared from nucleus accumbens and prefrontal cortex. Our results suggest that activation of the D1 receptor-protein kinase A signaling pathway leads to externalization of AMPA receptors and promotes LTP. This provides a mechanism to explain facilitation of reward-related learning by dopamine. When this mechanism is activated in an unregulated manner by psychostimulants, maladaptive forms of neuroplasticity may occur that contribute to the transition from casual to compulsive drug use.
Persistent changes in behavior and psychological function that occur as a function of experience, such those associated with learning and memory, are thought to be due to the reorganization of synaptic connections (structural plasticity) in relevant brain circuits. Some of the most compelling examples of experience-dependent changes in behavior and psychological function, changes that can last a lifetime, are those that accrue with the development of addictions. However, until recently, there has been almost no research on whether potentially addictive drugs produce forms of structural plasticity similar to those associated with other forms of experience-dependent plasticity. In this paper we summarize evidence that, indeed, exposure to amphetamine, cocaine, nicotine or morphine produces persistent changes in the structure of dendrites and dendritic spines on cells in brain regions involved in incentive motivation and reward (such as the nucleus accumbens), and judgment and the inhibitory control of behavior (such as the prefrontal cortex). It is suggested that structural plasticity associated with exposure to drugs of abuse reflects a reorganization of patterns of synaptic connectivity in these neural systems, a reorganization that alters their operation, thus contributing to some of the persistent sequela associated with drug use--including addiction.
Regulation of gene expression is one mechanism by which drugs of abuse can induce relatively long-lasting changes in the brain to cause a state of addiction. Here, we focus on two transcription factors, CREB (cAMP response element binding protein) and DeltaFosB, which contribute to drug-induced changes in gene expression. Both are activated in the nucleus accumbens, a major brain reward region, but mediate different aspects of the addicted state. CREB mediates a form of tolerance and dependence, which dampens an individual's sensitivity to subsequent drug exposure and contributes to a negative emotional state during early phases of withdrawal. In contrast, DeltaFosB mediates a state of relatively prolonged sensitization to drug exposure and may contribute to the increased drive and motivation for drug, which is a core symptom of addictive disorders. A major goal of current research is to identify the many target genes through which CREB and DeltaFosB mediate these behavioral states. In addition, future work needs to understand how CREB and DeltaFosB, acting in concert with numerous other drug-induced molecular changes in nucleus accumbens and many other brain regions, interact with one another to produce the complex behavioral phenotype that defines addiction.
The dopamine- and cAMP-regulated phosphoprotein, M(r) 32 kDa (DARPP-32), plays a key role in dopaminoceptive neurons in the neostriatum (and likely in other brain regions) in signal transduction pathways regulated by a variety of neurotransmitters, neuromodulators, and neuropeptides. Phosphorylation at Thr34 by protein kinase A converts DARPP-32 into a potent inhibitor of the multifunctional serine/threonine protein phosphatase, PP-1. Phosphorylation at Thr75 by Cdk5 converts DARPP-32 into an inhibitor of protein kinase A. The state of phosphorylation of DARPP-32 at Thr34 also depends on the phosphorylation state of Ser102 and Ser137, which are phosphorylated by CK2 and CK1, respectively. By virtue of its regulation of its four phosphorylation sites by a large number of physiological and pharmacological stimuli, and through its ability to modulate the activity of PP-1 and protein kinase A, DARPP-32 plays a key role in integrating a variety of electrophysiological, transcriptional, and behavioral responses. This review focuses on the critical role that DARPP-32 plays in mediating the actions of a broad range of drugs of abuse.
Recent evidence indicates that the basolateral amygdala (BLA) may be involved in behavioural effects induced by cannabinoids. High levels of CB1 cannabinoid receptors have been shown in this region, where they modulate excitatory and inhibitory synaptic transmission. However, the neurophysiological effects of these opposing synaptic actions have not been investigated in vivo. To this purpose, single-unit extracellular recordings were performed in urethane anaesthetized rats in order to determine whether exogenously applied cannabinoids influenced the spontaneous or evoked electrical activity of neurons in the BLA. The effects of cannabinoids were found to be dependent on the characteristics of the neurons examined and on the properties of the agents used. We tested and compared two structurally different synthetic cannabinoid receptor agonists, the highly potent HU-210 (0.125-1.0 mg/kg, i.v.) and WIN55212-2 (WIN, 0.125-1.0 mg/kg, i.v.). With a CB1 cannabinoid receptor-dependent mechanism, HU-210 potently inhibited the firing rate of BLA interneurons whereas WIN modulated the discharge rate in a biphasic manner. By contrast, BLA projection neurons, antidromically identified from the shell of the nucleus accumbens, were significantly inhibited by WIN at all doses tested, while HU-210 administration led to less consistent effects, since only 1.0 mg/kg inhibited firing rate in the majority of recorded neurons. Additionally, WIN, but not HU-210, significantly attenuated short-latency spiking activity in BLA projection neurons evoked by electrical stimulation of the medial prefrontal cortex. In these neurons, WIN-induced effects were antagonised by the non-selective cannabinoid receptor antagonist SR141716A and by the vanilloid receptor antagonist capsazepine, but not by the selective CB1 antagonist AM-251. Taken together, our findings indicate that the overall excitability of efferent neurons in the BLA is strongly reduced by WIN in a non-CB1-dependent manner. In this effect, the contribution of a novel cannabinoid-vanilloid-sensitive putative non-CB1 receptors, the existence of which was postulated in recent reports, might play a role.
Antidepressants are used to treat chronic daily headache disorders such as migraine and chronic tension-type headache (TTH), which are often associated with depression and anxiety. Here, we studied the efficacy and tolerability of amitriptyline and citalopram, given alone or in combination, in patients with 'triple' comorbidity of depression, TTH, and migraine. Eighty-eight patients were enrolled in the study and randomly divided into two groups. The first group received amitriptyline and the second citalopram for 16 weeks. Patients were assessed at weeks 0, 4, 8, and 16. The two drugs were equally efficacious in relieving depressive symptoms, although amitriptyline was more efficacious than citalopram in reducing migraine and TTH attacks. Patients who did not respond to monotherapy (&lt;30% of improvement in the clinical scores) were treated with a combination of the two drugs for 16 additional weeks. In these selected patients, the combined treatment produced a substantial improvement in depression, migraine and TTH without producing major side effects such as those commonly related to the 'serotonergic' syndrome. The results indicate that a combined therapy with amitriptyline and citalopram may be particularly beneficial for patients with TTH, migraine and comorbid depression that do not respond to monotherapy.
This study aimed to investigate the binding affinity of [3H]GABA and [3H]beta-alanine to GABA transporters GAT-1 and GAT-3 in the human dorsolateral prefrontal cortex (Brodmanns' area 9) in schizophrenia. Using post mortem tissue from individuals diagnosed with schizophrenia (n=6) and control subjects (n=6), the density of GAT-1 was established by displacing [3H]GABA with muscimol, and for GAT-3 [3H]beta-alanine was used. Data analysis showed a significant decrease of GAT-1 levels (45%), and a significant increase of GAT-3 density (23%) within the dorsolateral prefrontal cortex of individuals diagnosed with schizophrenia when compared to age- and sex-matched controls. The observed decrease of GAT-1 could be explained as a consequence of the GABA hypo-function or the result of volumetric shrinkage of the cerebral cortex previously reported in this disease. The observed elevation of GAT-3 levels could be due to a compensatory effect for any functional loss of GABA re-uptake by the decreased GAT-1 levels.
Growing evidence has implicated the possible involvement of neurotrophins in the pathogenesis of functional psychoses such as schizophrenia and bipolar disorder. Previous studies reported a significant association of a dinucleotide repeat polymorphism of the neurotrophin-3 (NTF3) gene with schizophrenia. The aims of the present study were to examine whether this polymorphism is associated with bipolar disorder and whether the polymorphic region has an enhancer/silencer effect on transcriptional activity in an allele-dependent manner. In an association analysis between the polymorphism and bipolar disorder in a Japanese sample of 88 patients and 98 controls matched for age, sex, and ethnicity, the distribution of alleles did not differ significantly between the two groups. pGL3-promoter luciferase reporter vectors containing the polymorphic region increased luciferase activity relative to empty pGL3-promoter vector in HeLa, IMR-32 (neuroblastoma) and Hs683 (glioma) cell lines; however, no significant difference was detected between alleles for either cell line. Our results suggest that the examined polymorphism has no major role in giving susceptibility to bipolar disorder. Although the polymorphic region may have an enhancer-like effect on transcriptional activity, we obtained no evidence for allele-dependent differential effects.
Animal studies suggested that acamprosate modulates neuronal hyperexcitability of acute alcohol withdrawal, acting through the glutamatergic neurotransmission. In the present study, we further investigated whether treatment with acamprosate could attenuate the post-alcohol withdrawal hyperexcitability or hyperarousal in humans using brain magnetoencephalography mapping of spontaneous fields. A double-blind, randomised, placebo-controlled study with a parallel group design comparing 2,000 mg/day of acamprosate versus placebo was conducted in alcohol-dependent subjects meeting DSM-IV criteria for alcohol dependence. Treatments were initiated 8 days before alcohol withdrawal and prolonged during the 15 following (abstinence) days. The study demonstrated that during alcohol withdrawal, acamprosate decreased the arousal level as reflected by alpha slow-wave index (ASI) measurement. This effect was mostly evidenced in left parietotemporal regions and, to a lesser extent, in the contiguous anterior, posterior and right-sided regions. In the placebo group, on the contrary, ASI measures increased between day 2 (acute withdrawal) and day 14 (prolonged withdrawal). The present results suggest a sustained effect of acamprosate on the hyperexcitability state due to alcohol withdrawal in alcohol-dependent patients and that acamprosate may have a protective effect when administered 8 days before alcohol withdrawal.
Cephalosporins may induce nonconvulsive status epilepticus (NCSE), a potentially reversible condition. Despite the wide use of these antibiotics, there are only few reported cases, because this condition is probably underestimated. We report two new cases of NCSE occurring during treatment with cefepime and ceftazidime, and emphasize the utility of emergent electroencephalogram in patients with an acute altered state of consciousness while receiving treatment with cephalosporins, particularly when there is evidence of impaired renal function.

Intra-individual performance variability may be an important index of the efficiency with which executive control processes are implemented, Lesion studies suggest that damage to the frontal lobes is accompanied by an increase in such variability. Here we sought for the first time to investigate how the functional neuroanatomy of executive control is modulated by performance variability in healthy subjects by using an event-related functional magnetic resonance imaging (ER-fMRI) design and a Go/No-go response inhibition paradigm. Behavioural results revealed that individual differences in Go response time variability were a strong predictor of inhibitory success and that differences in mean Go response time could not account for this effect. Task-related brain activation was positively correlated with intra-individual variability within a distributed inhibitory network consisting of bilateral middle frontal areas and right inferior parietal and thalamic regions. Both the behavioural and fMRI data are consistent with the interpretation that those subjects with relatively higher intra-individual variability activate inhibitory regions to a greater extent, perhaps reflecting a greater requirement for top-down executive control in this group, a finding that may be relevant to disorders of executive/attentional control.
An experimental design based on the combination of dichaptic presentation associated to the Posner's paradigm was adopted to investigate laterality effects for verbal and spatial non-linguistic stimuli in male and female adult normal subjects. In a grapheme similarity judgment task based on &quot;Name Identity&quot; a right hand/left hemisphere advantage was found. Conversely, laterality effects were neither observed when the task involved &quot;Perceptually Identical&quot; or &quot;Different&quot; letter pairs. In a further experiment, the same methodology was adopted to verify hemispheric effects with spatial non-linguistic material, and a significant advantage for the left hand/right hemisphere was observed. Contrary to many previous studies, no gender or gender x task effects have been detected in both experiments. The present results suggest the existence, also in the tactile domain, of a direct link between input type and the linguistic or non-linguistic processing to which the two hemispheres are devoted. The overall pattern of data seriously hampers Witelson's original hypothesis that letter stimuli presented in the tactile modality are primarily processed as spatial stimuli, and are therefore dependent on the right hemisphere functioning.
Previous research indicates that amnesic subjects tested on sequential learning or serial reaction time tasks can learn a repeated procedural sequence but are unable to explicitly recall the correct sequence when asked to generate the sequence. Rats with hippocampal lesions are also able to learn and remember procedural or implicit sequences but were impaired for declarative sequences. We used analogous procedures used in rats to assess the role of the hippocampus in the acquisition of declarative and procedural sequences in amnesic and control participants. Amnesic participants with damage restricted to the hippocampus and control participants were administered analogous tasks of declarative and procedural sequential learning using a computer version of the radial arm maze. The amnesic participants had slower response times during the acquisition of procedural sequences, but were not impaired compared to controls when switched to a random sequence, suggesting that both groups learned the sequence. Alternatively, the amnesic but not control participants were significantly impaired in the declarative sequence task. Our findings provide support for evolutionary continuity in cognitive function of the hippocampus in rats and humans and the dissociation between the declarative and procedural sequential learning. The performance differences on the two sequence learning tasks are likely due to the use of different strategies associated with learning sequences based on procedural versus declarative knowledge.
If brain lesions impair the allocation of attention to a representation of the body surface and the hand may serve as an attentional focus or &quot;wand&quot;, one might expect that somatosensory deficits caused by cerebral lesions would be ameliorated by contact with the ipsilesional hand. To test this prediction, tactile detection tasks were administered to two subjects with right hemisphere lesions. Subject CB's left tactile extinction was investigated in conditions in which the degree of contact between the right and left hands and the spatial relationship between his hands was systematically varied. His left tactile extinction was significantly reduced by touch of the right hand. Similarly, extinction at the left knee was ameliorated by touch of the knee by the right hand; touch of the right foot had no effect. Subject NC's ability to detect a tactile stimulus delivered to the left side was systematically assessed in conditions in which the hands touched and the spatial relationship between the hands was varied. His ability to detect a touch on the left hand improved in conditions in which the left hand was touched by the right hand. This effect was not observed if direct contact between the two hands was prevented by inserting a thin cloth between the hands. For both subjects, placing the right hand in close proximity to the left hand or altering the spatial location of the hands relative to the body did not influence performance. These data demonstrate that the hand may serve as a conduit for attention and provide strong evidence for a distinct representation of the body surface that is at least in part independent of spatial representations.
Five people lacking the corpus callosum (two callosotomized, three with agenesis of the corpus callosum) and neurologically normal subjects were shown vertical lines that appeared instantaneously between pairs of rectangles in one or other visual field. When one of the rectangles flashed prior to the presentation of the line, and the line was in the same visual field, all subjects perceived the line as spreading from the flashed rectangle to the other. Normal subjects and one of the callosotomized subjects showed a slight but significant right visual-field advantage, perhaps reflecting a left-hemispheric superiority in processing rapid temporal events. The illusion was also induced when the line and the flash were in opposite visual fields in one of the callosotomized, one of the acallosal subjects, and about half of the normal subjects, implying interhemispheric integration even in the absence of the corpus callosum.
Balint syndrome after bilateral parietal damage involves a severe disturbance of space representation including impaired oculomotor behaviour, optic ataxia, and simultanagnosia. Binding of object features into a unique spatial representation can also be impaired. We report a patient with bilateral parietal lesions and Balint syndrome, showing severe spatial deficits in several visual tasks predominantly affecting the left hemispace. In particular, we tested whether a loss of spatial representation would affect crossmodal interactions between simultaneous visual and tactile events occurring at the same versus different locations. A tactile discrimination task, where spatially congruent or incongruent visual cues were delivered near the patient's hands, was used. Following stimulation of the left hand in the left side of space, we observed visuo-tactile interactions that were not modulated by spatially congruent conditions. In contrast, performance following stimulation of the right hand in the right side of space was affected in a spatially selective manner--facilitated for congruent stimuli and slowed for incongruent stimuli. To dissociate effects on somatotopic and spatiotopic coordinates, we crossed the patient's hands during unimodal tactile discriminations. Tactile performance of the left hand improved when it was positioned in the right hemispace, whereas placing the right hand in left space produced no significant changes, suggesting that left-sided tactile inputs are coded with respect to a combination of limb- and trunk-centred coordinates. These data converge with recent findings in animals and healthy humans to indicate a critical role of the posterior parietal cortex in multimodal spatial integration, and in the fusion of different coordinates into a unified representation of space.
What happens to visual artists with neuropsychological deficits? This review will examine artistic production in individuals with a variety of syndromes including achromatopsia, neglect, visual agnosia, aphasia, epilepsy, migraine, dementia and autism. From this review it appears that artists are not spared visual-motor deficits despite their special graphic abilities. Rather their talents allow them to express visual deficits with particular eloquence. By contrast, the effects of aphasia on art are variable. In addition to deficits, neuropsychological syndromes may be associated with positive phenomena. Such phenomena induced by epilepsy or migraines can serve to inspire artists. This review also makes clear that artists with neuropsychological deficits do not necessarily produce art of lesser quality. Rather, their art may change in content or in style, sometimes in surprising and aesthetically pleasing ways. The neuropsychology of visual art also touches on a few central questions about the nature of artistic expression itself. For example, what forms can artistic representations take? How are visual features used descriptively and expressively? What roles do knowing and seeing play in depiction?
The present study aimed to determine whether observation of upper limb actions selectively influences speech production. We compared the effects on children with those on adults, hypothesizing that action observation is used by children for speech learning. Children and adults observed an actor either grasping a cherry or an apple, or bringing the same fruits to his mouth. They pronounced the syllable/ba/ at the end of the action. In a control experiment, children and adults executed the two bringing-to-the-mouth actions, still pronouncing/ba/. As previously found ([Euro. J. Neurosci., 17 (2003) 179]; [Euro. J. Neurosci., 19 (2004) 192]), the observed kinematics of the action, which were different according to the fruit size, influenced lip shaping kinematics and voice formants. In addition, the effect was selective for the action since the observations of actions such as grasping and bringing-to-the-mouth affected formant 1 and formant 2 in the voice spectra, respectively. The effects on speech were greater in the children than in the adults. By contrast, the effects on lip shaping did not differ between the two groups. Effects similar to those found for action observation were found for action execution in spite of a different arm kinematics between children and adults. The results of the present study are discussed according to the hypothesis that action observation induces in the viewer action recognition and activation of the successive mouth act (probably grasping-with-the-mouth when observing grasping-with-the-hand and chewing when observing bringing-to-the-mouth). This subsequently seems to affect characteristics peculiar to the emitted vowel. This mechanism might have been used by humans to transfer a primitive arm gesture communication system from the arm to the mouth and may be further used by children for speech learning.
The electrophysiological correlates of retrieval cue processing were investigated in healthy young (18-30 years) and older (63-75 years) subjects (n = 16 per group). Retrieval orientation--the differential processing of cues according to the form of the sought-for information--and retrieval difficulty were manipulated in a factorial design. In separate study-test cycles, subjects studied either words or pictures, and performed a yes/no recognition memory task with words as the test items. ERPs elicited by correctly classified new words differed markedly according to study material in the young subjects, replicating previous findings. In the older subjects, this effect was smaller than in the young, and had a later onset and earlier offset. The scalp topography of the effect was however statistically indistinguishable in the two groups. These age-related ERP differences were unmodulated by task difficulty, and remained reliable when recognition performance was matched across the groups. By contrast, the magnitude and timing of ERP difficulty effects were unaffected by age. The findings suggest that older subjects are less able than young individuals to vary their processing of retrieval cues in response to different retrieval demands.
A common assumption underlying laterality research is that visual field asymmetries in lateralized word perception indicate the hemispheric specialisation of processes generally available for the perception of words, including words viewed in a more typical setting (i.e. in the central visual field). We tested the validity of this assumption using a phenomenon (the word-letter effect) frequently reported for displays viewed in the central visual field, where letters in words are perceived more accurately than the same letters in isolation. Words and isolated letters were presented in the left visual field (LVF), right visual field (RVF) and central visual field (CVF), the Reicher-Wheeler task was used to suppress influences of guesswork, and an eye-tracker ensured central fixation. In line with previous findings, lateralized displays revealed a RVF-LVF advantage for words (but not isolated letters) and CVF displays revealed an advantage for words over isolated letters (the word-letter effect). However, RVF and LVF displays both produced an advantage for isolated letters over words (a letter-word effect), indicating that processing subserving the advantage for words when participants viewed stimuli in the central visual field was unavailable for lateralized displays. Implications of these findings for studies of lateralized word perception are discussed.
The patient D.F., who suffers from severe visual form agnosia, has been found to have a bilateral lesion of area LO, an area known to be intimately involved in the perception of object shape. Despite her perceptual impairment, however, D.F. retains residual form processing abilities that can provide distal visuomotor control, for example in the configuration of her grasp when reaching to pick up objects of different shapes and sizes. This dissociation has been interpreted as reflecting the sparing of a dedicated system for processing the physical properties of objects solely for purposes of guiding action. Here we test this hypothesis in two studies designed to examine whether or not spared shape processing capacities might be revealed under other kinds of indirect test conditions. First, we exploited the fact that a redundant shape cue will speed search for a coloured stimulus within an array, and vice versa. Unlike our control subjects, D.F. showed no facilitation effect of either kind. Second, we used two Stroop tasks in which single coloured uppercase letters were presented. Our intention was to determine (a) whether naming the colour would be influenced by whether the letter was the initial letter of the correct or incorrect colour name (e.g. 'R' or 'G'); and (b) whether the reverse might be true, that is that D.F.'s guesses at letter identity might be influenced by their colour. We found no evidence for a Stroop effect of the former (standard) kind in D.F., but we did find evidence for reverse-Stroop effects. This result may reflect a partial sparing of ventral stream areas specialised for letter-form processing.
Human adults and infants identify the actions of another agent based not only on its intrinsic perceptual features, but critically on the contingent relationship between its motion path and the environmental context [Trends Cogn. Sci. 7 (1995) 287; Cognition 72 (2003) 237]. Functional neuroimaging studies of the perception of agents and intentional actions, on the other hand, have mostly focussed on the perception of intrinsic cues to agency, like a face or articulated body motion (e.g. [J. Neurosci. 17 (1997) 4302; Neuroimage 8 (1998) 221; Trends Cogn. Sci. 4 (2000) 267; Nat. Neurosci. 3 (2000) 80; Neuroimage 13 (2001) 775; Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U.S.A. 98 (2001) 11656; Neuron 35 (2002) 1167; Neuron 34 (2002) 149, Neuroscience 15 (2003) 991; J. Neurosci. 23 (2003) 6819; Philos. Trans. R Soc. Lond. B. Biol. Sci. 358 (2003) 435]. Here we describe a region of the right posterior superior temporal sulcus that is sensitive not to articulated body motion per se, but to the relationship between the observed motion and the structure of the surrounding environment. From this and other aspects of the region's response, we hypothesize that this region is involved in the representation of observed intentional actions.
Stories are used extensively for human communication; both the comprehension and production of oral and written narratives constitute a fundamental part of our experience. While study of this topic has largely been the domain of cognitive psychology, neuroscience has also made progress in uncovering the processes underlying these abilities. In an attempt to synthesize work from both literatures, this review: (1) summarizes the current neuroimaging and patient research pertaining to narrative comprehension and production, (2) attempts to integrate this information with the processes described by the discourse models of cognitive psychology, and (3) uses this information to examine the possible interrelation between comprehension and production. Story comprehension appears to entail a network of frontal, temporal and cingulate areas that support working-memory and theory-of-mind processes. The specific functions associated with these areas are congruent with the processes proposed by cognitive models of comprehension. Moreover, these same areas appear necessary for story production, and the causal-temporal ordering of selected information may partially account for this common ground. A basic description of comprehension and production based solely on neuropsychological evidence is presented to complement current cognitive models, and a number of avenues for future research are suggested.
Patients with representational unilateral neglect were impaired in immediate recall of novel material on the neglected side as presented (viewed and removed or verbally described) or following mental rotation. Transforming material from the neglected (left) side to the non-neglected (right) side resulted in no additional loss; patients were unimpaired in directing attention to the neglected side of their representation in order to perform the mental rotation. These findings cannot be explained by the widely adopted attention deficit hypothesis for representational neglect. It is suggested that the disorder arises from damage to temporary storage functions of visuo-spatial working memory.
Semantic retrieval consistently activates left inferior frontal regions, yet lesions to these areas do not typically result in semantic deficits. This discrepancy has led to the hypothesis that left prefrontal areas are primarily involved in executive processes while semantic information is retrieved from temporal cortices. We investigated semantic executive processing by changing, over trials, the semantic association to a stimulus. Using fMRI and PET, we demonstrate that changes in semantic association increased activation in temporal as well as frontal areas. The similar effects in temporal and frontal areas suggest that semantic executive processes are not confined to the left inferior frontal cortex but might be distributed throughout the semantic system.
The present study sought to assess neural correlates of implicit identification of objects by means of fMRI, using tasks that require matching of the physical properties of objects. Behavioural data suggests that there is automatic access to object identity when observers attend to a physical property of the form of an object (e.g. the object's orientation) and no evidence for semantic processing when subjects attend to colour. We evaluated whether, in addition to neural areas associated with decisions to specific perceptual properties, areas associated with access to semantic information were activated when tasks demanded processing of the global configuration of pictures. We used two perceptual matching tasks based on the global orientation or on the colour of line drawings. Our results confirmed behavioural data. Activations in the inferior occipital cortex, fusiform and inferior temporal gyri in both tasks (orientation and colour) account for perceptual and structural processing involved in each task. In contrast, activations in the posterior and medial parts of the fusiform gyrus, shown to be involved in explicit semantic judgements, were more pronounced in the orientation-matching task, suggesting that semantic information from the pictures is processed in an implicit way even when not required by the task. Thus, this study suggests that cortical regions usually involved in explicit semantic processing are also activated when implicit processing of objects occurs.
Visual motion stimulation as well as neck muscle vibration are known to effectively modulate the subjective body orientation in spatial neglect. However, so far only motion stimulation has been demonstrated to substantially influence size and space distortion in neglect patients. The present study aimed to compare the two stimulation methods with respect to their potentially differential impact on subjective body orientation and on space and size distortion, in five neglect patients showing perceptual distortions. We found comparable beneficial effects during left motion stimulation and left neck vibration for the subjective straight ahead. Additionally, left motion stimulation significantly ameliorated the leftward overextension in size matching, line bisection and distance estimation in all five patients. In contrast, during neck vibration only two patients showed an improvement for line bisection and size estimation and none did so for distance estimation. Since these two patients differed from the others as they had either no visual field defects or a major visual field sparing, we suggest--based on recent anatomical and neuropsychological findings--that neck vibration only tends to improve pure neglect-related visuo-perceptual distortions whereas motion stimulation can additionally improve perceptual distortions in neglect associated with hemianopia.
We asked 12 patients with left visual neglect to bisect the gap between two cylinders or to reach rapidly between them to a more distal target zone. Both tasks demanded a motor response but these responses were quite different in nature. The bisection response was a communicative act whereby the patient indicated the perceived midpoint. The reaching task carried no imperative to bisect the gap, only to maintain a safe distance from either cylinder while steering to the target zone. Optimal performance on either task could only be achieved by reference to the location of both cylinders. Our analysis focused upon the relative influence of the left and right cylinders on the lateral location of the response. In the bisection task, all neglect patients showed qualitatively the same asymmetry, with the left cylinder exerting less influence than the right. In the reaching task, the neglect group behaved like normal subjects, being influenced approximately equally by the two cylinders. This was true for all bar two of the patients, who showed clear neglect in both tasks. We conclude that the visuomotor processing underlying obstacle avoidance during reaching is preserved in most patients with left visual neglect.
An intimate relationship is often assumed between visual attention and visual awareness. Using a subject, patient GY, with the neurological condition of &quot;blindsight&quot; we show that although attention may be a necessary precursor to visual awareness it is not a sufficient one. Using a Posner endogenous spatial cueing paradigm we showed that the time our subject needed to discriminate the orientation of a stimulus was reduced if he was cued to the location of the stimulus. This reaction-time advantage was obtained without any decrease in discrimination accuracy and cannot therefore be attributed to speed-error trade-off or differences in bias between cued and uncued locations. As a result of his condition GY was not aware of the stimuli to which processing was attentionally facilitated. Attention cannot, therefore be a sufficient condition for awareness.
The time to decide if a letter is normal or backwards (mirror-reversed) increases as the letter is rotated away from the upright. It is widely accepted that this increase in time reflects the mental rotation of the stimulus to the upright orientation in order to determine the mirror-normal status of the stimulus. Although response times tend to be longer for mirrored stimuli than for normal stimuli, the difference is constant across orientation. Little work has been focused on why mirror-image stimuli produce longer response times than normal stimuli. This study examines the question of whether or not mirrored stimuli are rotated in the picture plane at the same time as normal stimuli, and if so, why response times to mirrored stimuli are longer than that for normal stimuli. Both the behavioural and electrophysiological findings suggest that the mirrored stimuli are not only rotated in the picture plane, but that they are subsequently rotated to the normal view. It is this additional rotation that produces, at least in part, the delayed response times for mirror-image stimuli.
Animal research indicates that the prefrontal cortex (PFC) plays a crucial role in decision making. In concordance, deficits in decision making have been observed in human patients with damage to the PFC. Contemporary accounts of decision making suggest that emotion guides the process of decision making by ways of providing for reward-punishment contingencies. A task capable of assessing the influence of reward and punishment on decision making is the Iowa gambling task. In this task decisions become motivated by inherent punishment and reward schedules. Insensitivity for punishment together with a strong reward dependency results in risk taking, which is in the gambling task the disadvantageous strategy. Interestingly, the processing of punishment and reward is argued to be lateralized over the right and left PFC, respectively. Here we investigated whether more relative left compared to right-sided frontal brain activity (left-sided dominance) quantified as reduced alpha (8-12 Hz) activity in the electroencephalogram (EEG) would lead to a more risky, disadvantageous pattern of decision making. Contrary to what was expected, relatively more right compared to left frontal brain activity was strongly associated with the disadvantageous strategy. The results are discussed in terms of recent theoretical accounts which argue that the functional interpretation of baseline frontal alpha activity depends on the mental operation involved and does not necessarily imply inactivity.
Previous research has suggested that a probabilistic category learning task (e.g. weather prediction task) can be used to elucidate brain substrates of learning. We tested amnesic subjects with bilateral hippocampal damage due to hypoxia and matched controls on the weather prediction task and a variant, the &quot;ice cream&quot; task, which maintains a similar category structure. The hypoxic subjects were impaired relative to controls on both tasks; in the ice cream task, this difference was evident even early in training (first 50 trials). This finding is similar to functional neuroimaging (fMRI) studies in healthy subjects, which show medial temporal involvement even in early learning on this task. Additionally, strategy analysis of response patterns during learning suggest that the hypoxic group relied more heavily on simple, degraded learning strategies than did the control group. These results may suggest a qualification of the generally held conclusion that amnesic patients are not impaired at probabilistic category learning: at least under some circumstances, amnesic patients show an early and lasting deficit.
Associative visual agnosia is classically defined as normal visual perception stripped of its meaning [Archiv fr Psychiatrie und Nervenkrankheiten 21 (1890) 22/English translation: Cognitive Neuropsychol. 5 (1988) 155]: these patients cannot access to their stored visual memories to categorize the objects nonetheless perceived correctly. However, according to an influential theory of visual agnosia [Farah, Visual Agnosia: Disorders of Object Recognition and What They Tell Us about Normal Vision, MIT Press, Cambridge, MA, 1990], visual associative agnosics necessarily present perceptual deficits that are the cause of their impairment at object recognition Here we report a detailed investigation of a patient with bilateral occipito-temporal lesions strongly impaired at object and face recognition. NS presents normal drawing copy, and normal performance at object and face matching tasks as used in classical neuropsychological tests. However, when tested with several computer tasks using carefully controlled visual stimuli and taking both his accuracy rate and response times into account, NS was found to have abnormal performances at high-level visual processing of objects and faces. Albeit presenting a different pattern of deficits than previously described in integrative agnosic patients such as HJA and LH, his deficits were characterized by an inability to integrate individual parts into a whole percept, as suggested by his failure at processing structurally impossible three-dimensional (3D) objects, an absence of face inversion effects and an advantage at detecting and matching single parts. Taken together, these observations question the idea of separate visual representations for object/face perception and object/face knowledge derived from investigations of visual associative (prosop)agnosia, and they raise some methodological issues in the analysis of single-case studies of (prosop)agnosic patients.
Numerous studies have described the poor visuo-spatial processing capacities of subjects with Williams-Beuren syndrome (WBS), a genetically based developmental disorder. Since visual perception and eye movements are closely related we hypothesized that the poor visuo-spatial processing capacities of subjects with WBS might be related to a poor saccadic control. Thereto, we recorded horizontal and vertical saccadic eye movements to targets using infrared video-oculography in 27 subjects with WBS and eight healthy controls. In the WBS group saccadic gains were highly variable, both between and within individual subjects, and they often needed more than one correction saccade to reach the target. Ten (out of a subgroup of 22) WBS subjects showed a large number of hypometric and/or hypermetric saccades, and, also a left-right asymmetry in saccadic gains was observed in WBS. We conclude that the observed impairments in saccadic control are likely to affect the proper processing of visuo-spatial information.
The two cerebral hemispheres in humans have been suggested to control contralaterally opposed attentional biases. These biases may be revealed by unilateral hemispheric damage, which often causes contralesional spatial neglect, particularly when the right hemisphere (RH) is affected. Subtle attentional biases have also been observed in normal observers in tasks requiring judgements of horizontal spatial extent, brightness, numerosity and size. Here, we examined attentional biases for judging the darker of two left-right mirror-reversed brightness gradients under conditions of free viewing (the greyscales task). We compared performances of patients with damage to the RH (n=78) and left hemisphere (LH; n=20) with those of normal controls (n=20). Controls showed a small but significant leftward bias, implying a subtle asymmetry favouring the RH. In contrast, RH and LH patients showed extreme rightward and leftward biases, respectively, both of which differed significantly from that of controls. For the patient groups, performance on clinical tests of neglect (cancellation and line bisection) did not predict their greyscales scores. Pathological biases were present in patients without clinical neglect or visual field defects, suggesting that the attentional bias measured by the greyscales task can be dissociated from clinical neglect and visual sensory loss. The greyscales task offers an efficient means of quantifying pathological attentional biases in unilateral lesion patients; it is easy to administer and score, and may be particularly useful for clinical trials of recovery and rehabilitation following stroke.
Patients with left unilateral spatial neglect following right hemisphere lesions usually err rightward when bisecting a horizontal line. For very short lines (e.g. 25 mm), however, leftward errors or seemingly 'right' neglect is often observed. To explain this paradox of crossover in the direction of errors, rather complicated models have been introduced as to the distribution of attention. Neglect may be hypothesized to occur in representational process of a line or estimation of the midpoint on the formed image, or both. We devised a line image task using a computer display with a touch panel and approached the representational image of a line to be bisected. Three patients with typical left neglect were presented with a line and forced to see its whole extent with cueing to the left endpoint. After disappearance of the line, they pointed to the right endpoint, the left endpoint, or the subjective midpoint according to their representational image. The line image between the reproduced right and left endpoints was appropriately formed for the 200 mm lines. However, the images for the shorter 25 and 100 mm lines were longer than the physical lengths with overextension to the left side. These results proved the context effect that short lines may be perceived longer when they are presented in combination with longer lines. One of our patients had an extensive lesion that involved the frontal, temporal, and parietal lobes, and the other two had a lesion restricted to the posterior right hemisphere. The image for a fully perceived line may be represented far enough into left space even when left neglect occurs after a lesion that involves the right parietal lobe. The patients with neglect placed the subjective midpoint rightward from the centre of the stimulus line for the 100 and 200 mm lines and leftward for the 25 mm lines. This crossover of bisection errors disappeared when the displacement of the subjective midpoint was measured from the centre of the representational line image. Left neglect may occur consistently in estimation of the subjective midpoint on the representational image, which may be explained by a simple rightward bias of attentional distribution.
Recent neuroimaging and neuropsychological data suggest that speech perception is supported in bilaterally auditory areas. We evaluate this issue building on well-known behavioral effects. While undergoing positron emission tomography (PET), subjects performed standard auditory tasks: direction discrimination of frequency-modulated (FM) tones, categorical perception (CP) of consonant-vowel (CV) syllables, and word/non-word judgments (lexical decision, LD). Compared to rest, the three conditions led to bilateral activation of the auditory cortices. However, lateralization patterns differed as a function of stimulus type: the LD task generated stronger responses in the left, the FM task a stronger response in the right hemisphere. Contrasts between either words or syllables versus FM were associated with significantly greater activity bilaterally in superior temporal gyrus (STG) ventro-lateral to Heschl's gyrus. These activations extended into the superior temporal sulcus (STS) and the middle temporal gyrus (MTG) and were greater in the left. The same areas were more active in the LD than the CP task. In contrast, the FM task was associated with significantly greater activity in the right lateral-posterior STG and lateral MTG. The findings argue for a view in which speech perception is mediated bilaterally in the auditory cortices and that the well-documented lateralization is likely associated with processes subsequent to the auditory analysis of speech.

Parkinson's disease (PD) results in various types of motor impairments including bradykinesia, tremor and rigidity. Recent research has implicated more fundamental processes at the source of the observed motor deficits. Among these, problems in the sequencing and/or timing of complex movements and in the execution of internally-guided tasks. Furthermore, PD patients exhibit procedural learning deficits which may complicate the interpretation of experimental results of studies involving novel sensorimotor tasks. The reach-to-grasp movement is a complex, overlearned sensorimotor task consisting of two semi-independent components, a relatively simple reach or transport phase and a more complex manipulation or prehension phase. In the present study, we used a novel technique in order to study the evolution of hand preshaping during the reach-to-grasp movement of PD patients and age-matched controls to objects of different shapes in three different spatial locations. Our results indicate that while PD patients are able to specify movement direction as well as controls, their hand preshaping exhibits substantial impairments. Other prehension measures, such as the time to peak aperture (TPA), indicate that PD patients delayed execution of the grasp until visual feedback of their hand was available. Overall, our results suggest that PD patients' internal guidance processes are severely disrupted, having to rely on visual feedback in order to modulate their hand shape to fit the contours of the target objects during a reach-to-grasp movement.
Four subjects with partial or complete section of the corpus callosum were tested on simple reaction time (RT) to visual stimuli presented either singly in one or other visual field, or simultaneously in both visual fields. The subject with posterior callosal section showed evidence of redundancy gain with bilateral stimuli beyond that attributable to probability summation (&quot;enhanced&quot; redundancy gain), and prolonged interhemispheric transfer. One of the two subjects with anterior section, like normals, showed little evidence of enhanced redundancy gain, and no evidence of prolonged interhemispheric transfer. The other did show some enhanced redundancy gain at the fast end of the RT distribution. These and other results suggest that the posterior corpus callosum provides the principal route or routes of interhemispheric transfer of the information required for simple visuomotor responses, and is also responsible for the much reduced redundancy gain in normal subjects relative to that in split-brained subjects. The subject with complete callosal section was unusual in that he responded only very rarely to stimuli in the left visual field (LVF), yet he showed markedly reduced RTs to bilateral relative to right visual field (RVF) stimuli.
Behavioral, patient, and electrophysiological studies have been taken as support for the assumption that processing of abstract words is confined to the left hemisphere, whereas concrete words are processed also by right-hemispheric brain areas. These are thought to provide additional information from an imaginal representational system, as postulated in the dual-coding theory of memory and cognition. Here we report new event-related fMRI data on the processing of concrete and abstract words in a lexical decision task. While abstract words activated a subregion of the left inferior frontal gyrus (BA 45) more strongly than concrete words, specific activity for concrete words was observed in the left basal temporal cortex. These data as well as data from other neuroimaging studies reviewed here are not compatible with the assumption of a specific right-hemispheric involvement for concrete words. The combined findings rather suggest a revised view of the neuroanatomical bases of the imaginal representational system assumed in the dual-coding theory, at least with respect to word recognition.
Regions in the medial temporal lobes (MTL) have long been implicated in the formation of new memories for events, however, it is unclear whether different MTL subregions support different memory processes. Here, we used event-related functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) to examine the degree to which two recognition memory processes-recollection and familiarity-were supported by different MTL subregions. Results showed that encoding activity in the rhinal cortex selectively predicted familiarity-based recognition, whereas, activity in the hippocampus and posterior parahippocampal cortex selectively predicted recollection. Collectively, these results support the view that different subregions within the MTL memory system implement unique encoding processes that differentially support familiarity and recollection.
Racemose cysticercal cyst is the subarachnoid manifestation of the larvae of Taenia solium. On MRI the cysts may resemble other cystic masses. We report the magnetic resonance spectroscopy (MRS) features of a case on in vivo proton spectroscopy and discuss its role in the diagnosis of intracranial cysts of parasitic aetiology.
The withdrawal of assisted nutrition and hydration (ANH) is increasingly supported by scientific societies, by hospitals and by some families, once the condition of vegetative state could be considered permanent. In the first part of this article, the authors present the factors used to support the decision to withdraw ANH: a) the prognostic evaluation about outcome transformed into a clinical diagnosis of permanency; b) basic health care transformed into a medical treatment, subject to refusal by the patient; c) the human life (an undisposable good) transformed into a disposable one, open to decisions made by surrogates; d) the evaluations about quality of life transformed into judgments about the indignity of human life to be lived. In the second part, the authors outline the changes that this attitude can provoke in the integrity and the juridical status of the medical and nursing professions, and its potential impact on the society at large.
Disorders of consciousness continue to be the subject of hot debate in healthcare settings, research consortiums, bioethics departments and media forums. There are no standards of care to guide assessment and treatment decisions resulting in wide disparities in daily practice. In response to this problem, expert panels in neurology and neurorehabilitation were convened and charged with developing consensus-based definitions and diagnostic criteria for disorders of consciousness. The Multi-Society Task Force Report on the persistent vegetative state and the Aspen Workgroup statement on the minimally conscious state represent two such initiatives. This paper summarizes the practice recommendations proposed by these groups and discusses their implications for existing and future interventions.
Despite a relatively small number of affected patients, Huntington's disease (HD) has been a historically important disease, embodying many of the major themes in modern neuroscience, including molecular genetics, selective neuronal vulnerability, excitotoxicity, mitochondrial dysfunction, apoptosis, and transcriptional dysregulation. The discovery of the HD gene in 1993 opened the door to the mechanisms of HD pathogenesis. Multiple pathologic mechanisms have been discovered, each one serving as a potential therapeutic target. HD thus continues to serve as a paradigmatic disorder, with basic bench research generating clinically relevant insights and stimulating the development of therapeutic human trials.
It is well established that when most types of cells, including neurons, are exposed to a mild stress they increase their ability to resist more severe stress. This &quot;preconditioning&quot; phenomenon involves up-regulation of genes that encode cytoprotective proteins such as heat-shock proteins and growth factors. We found that a similar beneficial cellular stress response can be induced in neurons throughout the brain by a &quot;meal-skipping&quot; dietary restriction (DR) regimen in rats and mice. DR is effective in protecting neurons and improving functional outcome in models of stroke, Alzheimer's, Parkinson's and Huntington's diseases. DR induces an increase in the levels of brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) and heat-shock proteins in neurons. DR also stimulates neurogenesis in the hippocampus, and BDNF plays a role in this effect of DR. Physical exercise and environmental enrichment are two other manipulations that have been shown to induce BDNF expression in the brain, presumably because it is a mild cellular stress. When taken together with epidemiological and clinical studies in humans, the data from animal studies suggest that it may be possible to reduce the risk for age-related neurodegenerative disorders through dietary and behavioral modifications that act by promoting neuronal plasticity and survival.
It has been increasingly recognized that cell death phenotypes and their molecular mechanisms are highly diverse. Necrosis is no longer considered a single entity, passively mediated by energy failure. Moreover, caspase-dependent apoptosis is not the only pathway involved in programmed cell death or even the only apoptotic mechanism. Recent experimental work emphasizes the diverse and interrelated nature of cell death mechanisms. Thus, there are both caspase-dependent and caspase-independent forms of apoptosis, which may differ morphologically as well as mechanistically. There are also necrotic-like phenotypes that require de novo protein synthesis and are, therefore, forms of programmed cell death. In addition, forms of cell death showing certain morphological features of both necrosis and apoptosis have been identified, leading to the term aponecrosis. Considerable experimental evidence also shows that modulation of one form of cell death may lead to another. Together, these observations underscore the need to substantially revise our conceptions about neuroprotection strategies. Use of multiple treatments that target different cell death cascades, or single agents that moderate multiple cell death pathways, is likely to lead to more effective neuroprotection for clinical disorders.
The nucleus accumbens is a brain region that participates in the control of behaviors related to natural reinforcers, such as ingestion, sexual behavior, incentive and instrumental learning, and that also plays a role in addictive processes. This paper comprises a review of work from our laboratory that focuses on two main research areas: (i). the role of the nucleus accumbens in food motivation, and (ii). its putative functions in cellular plasticity underlying appetitive learning. First, work within a number of different behavioral paradigms has shown that accumbens neurochemical systems play specific and dissociable roles in different aspects of food seeking and food intake, and part of this function depends on integration with the lateral hypothalamus and amygdala. We propose that the nucleus accumbens integrates information related to cognitive, sensory, and emotional processing with hypothalamic mechanisms mediating energy balance. This system as a whole enables complex hierarchical control of adaptive ingestive behavior. Regarding the second research area, our studies examining acquisition of lever-pressing for food in rats have shown that activation of glutamate N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA) receptors, within broadly distributed but interconnected regions (nucleus accumbens core, posterior striatum, prefrontal cortex, basolateral and central amygdala), is critical for such learning to occur. This receptor stimulation triggers intracellular cascades that involve protein phosphorylation and new protein synthesis. It is hypothesized that activity in this distributed network (including D1 receptor activity) computes coincident events and thus enhances the probability that temporally related actions and events (e.g. lever pressing and delivery of reward) become associated. Such basic mechanisms of plasticity within this reinforcement learning network also appear to be profoundly affected in addiction.
Drug addiction is a chronic relapsing disorder characterized by compulsive drug intake, loss of control over intake, and impairment in social and occupational function. Animal models have been developed for various stages of the addiction cycle with a focus in our work on the motivational effects of drug dependence. A conceptual framework focused on allostatic changes in reward function that lead to excessive drug intake provides a heuristic framework with which to identify the neurobiologic mechanisms involved in the development of drug addiction. Neuropharmacologic studies in animal models have provided evidence for the dysregulation of specific neurochemical mechanisms in specific brain reward and stress circuits that provide the negative motivational state that drives addiction. The allostatic model integrates molecular, cellular and circuitry neuroadaptations in brain motivational systems produced by chronic drug ingestion with genetic vulnerability, and provides a new opportunity to translate advances in animal studies to the human condition.

The structural substrates for age-associated cognitive and motor slowing are not known, but age-related white matter changes, such as ubiquitin (UBQ)-immunoreactive granular degeneration of myelin, might contribute to this slowing. To address this hypothesis we measured immunoreactivity for UBQ and myelin basic protein (MBP) in frontal white matter of age-, sex- and postmortem interval-matched cases with no cognitive impairment (NCI; N=12), mild cognitive impairment (MCI; N=14) and Alzheimer disease (AD; N=12). There were no significant correlations between UBQ in white matter and cognitive measures, but MBP was significantly lower in AD compared with NCI and MCI. MBP correlated with overall cognition as assessed by neuropsychological summary scores, as well as with timed cognitive tests and those that reflect frontal functions. An age-related decrease in MBP immunoreactivity was detected in NCI cases (r=0.71). These results support the hypothesis that white matter pathology may contribute to age-associated decline in cognition.
Until recently, little was known about the rostral part of the dorsal premotor cortex (PMdr). In the present study, somatotopical representations of the PMdr were electrophysiologically identified in the macaque monkey, and the distribution of corticostriatal input from the forelimb region of the PMdr was analyzed in relation to its thalamocortical and intracortical (with the frontal lobe) connections. Results have revealed that (1) the forelimb is represented predominantly in the PMdr, while only a few sites representing other body parts are distributed as embedded within the forelimb representation; (2) the corticostriatal input zone is located in the striatal cell bridges and their surroundings; (3) the cells of origin of the thalamocortical projections to the PMdr are located mainly in the parvicellular division of the ventroanterior nucleus, the oral divison of the ventrolateral nucleus, area X, the caudal divison of the ventrolateral nucleus, the mediodorsal nucleus, and the intralaminar nuclear group; (4) the PMdr is interconnected primarily with higher-order motor-related areas and dorsal area 46. These data indicate that the input-output pattern of the PMdr resembles those of the presupplementary motor area and the rostral cingulate motor area, and that the PMdr may play critical roles in higher-order motor functions.
The adult WAG/Rij rat is a well-established animal model for human absence epilepsy characterized by the presence of spike-wave discharges (SWDs). The pacemaking activity of the rostral reticular thalamic nucleus (rRTN) has been demonstrated to be essential for SWD maintenance. We investigated if SWD maintenance can be related to the synaptic organization of the rRTN, by studying the ultrastructure of the rRTN of absence epileptic WAG/Rij rats in comparison with that of non-epileptic, age-matched ACI control rats. In WAG/Rij rats, D-, L- and F-type terminals constitute the synaptic organization of the rRTN. D-type synapses, especially axo-dendritic ones, occur frequently. L- and F-type terminals are common but less frequent than D-type terminals. Semi-quantitative observations indicate that all terminal types are present on different parts of the postsynaptic neuron, but in different numbers: they are frequent on dendrites, common on somata and axons, and occur occasionally on dendritic spines. In addition, occasionally an F-type terminal was observed on the axon hillock. The three terminal types are also involved in multiple synaptic configurations, convergent as well as divergent, with dendrites, somata, axon hillocks and axons as postsynaptic structures. Convergent synaptic configurations outnumber divergent ones. The synaptic organization of the rRTN of the non-epileptic ACI rat appears to be very similar to that of the epileptic WAG/Rij rat. This indicates that SWD maintenance in the WAG/Rij rat does not depend on a different synaptic organization of the rRTN.
Rapid changes in extracellular K+ concentration ([K+](o)) in the mammalian CNS are counteracted by simple passive diffusion as well as by cellular mechanisms of K+ clearance. Buffering of [K+](o) can occur via glial or neuronal uptake of K+ ions through transporters or K+-selective channels. The best studied mechanism for [K+](o) buffering in the brain is called K+ spatial buffering, wherein the glial syncytium disperses local extracellular K+ increases by transferring K+ ions from sites of elevated [K+](o) to those with lower [K+](o). In recent years, K+ spatial buffering has been implicated or directly demonstrated by a variety of experimental approaches including electrophysiological and optical methods. A specialized form of spatial buffering named K+ siphoning takes place in the vertebrate retina, where glial Muller cells express inwardly rectifying K+ channels (Kir channels) positioned in the membrane domains near to the vitreous humor and blood vessels. This highly compartmentalized distribution of Kir channels in retinal glia directs K+ ions from the synaptic layers to the vitreous humor and blood vessels. Here, we review the principal mechanisms of [K+](o) buffering in the CNS and recent molecular studies on the structure and functions of glial Kir channels. We also discuss intriguing new data that suggest a close physical and functional relationship between Kir and water channels in glial cells.
It is generally accepted that cotransporters transport water in addition to their normal substrates, although the precise mechanism is debated; both active and passive modes of transport have been suggested. The magnitude of the water flux mediated by cotransporters may well be significant: both the number of cotransporters per cell and the unit water permeability are high. For example, the Na(+)-glutamate cotransporter (EAAT1) has a unit water permeability one tenth of that of aquaporin (AQP) 1. Cotransporters are widely distributed in the brain and participate in several vital functions: inorganic ions are transported by K(+)-Cl(-) and Na(+)-K(+)-Cl(-) cotransporters, neurotransmitters are reabsorbed from the synaptic cleft by Na(+)-dependent cotransporters located on glial cells and neurons, and metabolites such as lactate are removed from the extracellular space by means of H(+)-lactate cotransporters. We have previously determined water transport capacities for these cotransporters in model systems (Xenopus oocytes, cell cultures, and in vitro preparations), and will discuss their role in water homeostasis of the astroglial cell under both normo- and pathophysiologal situations. Astroglia is a polarized cell with EAAT localized at the end facing the neuropil while the end abutting the circulation is rich in AQP4. The water transport properties of EAAT suggest a new model for volume homeostasis of the extracellular space during neural activity.
Brain edema leading to an expansion of brain volume has a crucial impact on morbidity and mortality following traumatic brain injury (TBI) as it increases intracranial pressure, impairs cerebral perfusion and oxygenation, and contributes to additional ischemic injuries. Classically, two major types of traumatic brain edema exist: &quot;vasogenic&quot; due to blood-brain barrier (BBB) disruption resulting in extracellular water accumulation and &quot;cytotoxic/cellular&quot; due to sustained intracellular water collection. A third type, &quot;osmotic&quot; brain edema is caused by osmotic imbalances between blood and tissue. Rarely after TBI do we encounter a &quot;hydrocephalic edema/interstitial&quot; brain edema related to an obstruction of cerebrospinal fluid outflow. Following TBI, various mediators are released which enhance vasogenic and/or cytotoxic brain edema. These include glutamate, lactate, H(+), K(+), Ca(2+), nitric oxide, arachidonic acid and its metabolites, free oxygen radicals, histamine, and kinins. Thus, avoiding cerebral anaerobic metabolism and acidosis is beneficial to control lactate and H(+), but no compound inhibiting mediators/mediator channels showed beneficial results in conducted clinical trials, despite successful experimental studies. Hence, anti-edematous therapy in TBI patients is still symptomatic and rather non-specific (e.g. mannitol infusion, controlled hyperventilation). For many years, vasogenic brain edema was accepted as the prevalent edema type following TBI. The development of mechanical TBI models (&quot;weight drop,&quot; &quot;fluid percussion injury,&quot; and &quot;controlled cortical impact injury&quot;) and the use of magnetic resonance imaging, however, revealed that &quot;cytotoxic&quot; edema is of decisive pathophysiological importance following TBI as it develops early and persists while BBB integrity is gradually restored. These findings suggest that cytotoxic and vasogenic brain edema are two entities which can be targeted simultaneously or according to their temporal prevalence.
Despite their diverse histological types, most brain tumours cause brain oedema, which is a significant cause of patient morbidity and mortality. Brain tumour oedema occurs when plasma-like fluid enters the brain extracellular space through impaired capillary endothelial tight junctions in tumours. Under-expression of the tight junction proteins occludin, claudin-1 and claudin-5 are key molecular abnormalities responsible for the increased permeability of tumour endothelial tight junctions. Recent evidence suggests that the membrane water channel protein aquaporin-4 (AQP4) also plays a role in brain tumour oedema. AQP4-deficient mice show remarkably altered brain water balance after various insults, including brain tumour implantation. AQP4 expression is strongly upregulated around malignant human brain tumours in association with reduced extracellular volume, which may restrict the flow of extracellular fluid from the tumour bed into the brain parenchyma. Elimination of excess fluid leaking into brain parenchyma requires passage across three AQP4-rich barriers: a) the glia limitans externa, b) the glia limitans interna/ependyma, and c) the blood-brain barrier. Modulation of the expression and/or function of endothelial tight junction proteins and aquaporins may provide novel therapeutic options for reducing brain tumour oedema.
Astrocytes show an enrichment of aquaporin-4 (AQP4) in those parts of the plasma membrane that are apposed to pial or perivascular basal laminae. This observation begged the following questions: 1, What are the molecular mechanisms that are responsible for the site specific anchoring of AQP4? 2, What are the physiological and pathophysiological roles of the AQP4 pools at these specialized membrane domains? Recent studies suggest that the site specific anchoring depends on the dystrophin complex. Further, alpha-syntrophin (a member of the dystrophin complex) is required to maintain a polarized expression of AQP4 in the perivascular membranes. Hence transgenic mice deficient in alpha-syntrophin provided a model where the perivascular pool of AQP4 could be removed for assessment of its functional roles. Data suggest that the perivascular pool of AQP4 plays a role in edema formation and that this pool (through its serial coupling with the AQP4 pools in other astrocyte membranes) is involved in K(+) siphoning. In the cerebral cortex, the astrocyte membrane domain contacting the pial basal lamina differs from the perivascular membrane domain in regard to the mechanisms for AQP anchoring. Thus deletion of alpha-syntrophin causes only a 50% loss of AQP4 from the former membrane (compared with a 90% loss in the latter), pointing to the existence of additional anchoring proteins. We will also discuss the subcellular distribution and anchoring of AQP4 in the other cell types that express this protein: endothelial cells, ependymal cells, and the specialized astrocytes of the osmosensitive organs.
Cerebral water accumulation-clinically denoted as brain edema-is a potentially life threatening complication of almost every intracranial neuropathological state. The molecular membrane water channel aquaporin-4 (AQP4) has been shown to be present at the blood-brain barrier (BBB) where it plays pivotal role in the transport of water between the tissue water compartments of the brain. Accumulating evidence indicates that the blockade of AQP4 function at the BBB would be a new therapeutic approach to the treatment and prevention of brain swelling. The cytoskeletal protein dystrophin has been shown to be involved in the maintenance of the polarized expression of AQP4 at the BBB. In order to further elucidate the mechanisms responsible for the highly polarized AQP4 expression, we studied brain tissue water accumulation during induction of brain edema in dystrophin-null transgenic mice (mdx-bgeo) and control mice. Immunofluorescence and immunoelectron microscopic analyses of dystrophin-null brains revealed a dramatic reduction of AQP4 in astroglial end-feet surrounding capillaries (BBB) and at the glia limitans (cerebrospinal fluid-brain interface). The AQP4 protein is mislocalized, because immunoblotting showed that the total AQP4 protein abundance was unaltered. Brain edema was induced by i.p. injection of distilled water and 8-deamino-arginine vasopressin. Changes in cerebral water compartments were assessed by diffusion-weighted MRI (DWI) with determination of the apparent diffusion coefficient (ADC). In dystrophin-null mice and control mice, ADC gradually decreased by 5-6% from baseline levels during the first 35 min, indicating the initial phase of intracellular water accumulation is similar in the two groups. At this point, the control mice sustained an abrupt, rapid decline in ADC to 58%+/-2.2% of the baseline at 52.5 min, and all of the animals were dead by 56 min. After a consistent delay, the dystrophin-null mice sustained a similar decline in ADC to 55%+/-3.4% at 66.5 min, when all of the mice were dead. These results demonstrate that dystrophin is necessary for polarized distribution of AQP4 protein in brain where facilitated movements of water occur across the BBB and cerebrospinal fluid-brain interface. Moreover, these results predict that interference with the subcellular localization of AQP4 may have therapeutic potential for delaying the onset of impending brain edema.
Aquaporin-4 (AQP4) is the major water channel in the CNS. Its expression at fluid-tissue barriers (blood-brain and brain-cerebrospinal fluid barriers) throughout the brain and spinal cord suggests a role in water transport under normal and pathological conditions. Phenotype studies of transgenic mice lacking AQP4 have provided evidence for a role of AQP4 in cerebral water balance and neural signal transduction. Primary cultures of astrocytes from AQP4-null mice have greatly reduced osmotic water permeability compared with wild-type astrocytes, indicating that AQP4 is the principal water channel in these cells. AQP4-null mice have reduced brain swelling and improved neurological outcome following water intoxication and focal cerebral ischemia, establishing a role of AQP4 in the development of cytotoxic (cellular) cerebral edema. In contrast, brain swelling and clinical outcome are worse in AQP4-null mice in models of vasogenic (fluid leak) edema caused by freeze-injury and brain tumor, probably due to impaired AQP4-dependent brain water clearance. AQP4-null mice also have markedly reduced acoustic brainstem response potentials and significantly increased seizure threshold in response to chemical convulsants, implicating AQP4 in modulation of neural signal transduction. Pharmacological modulation of AQP4 function may thus provide a novel therapeutic strategy for the treatment of stroke, tumor-associated edema, epilepsy, traumatic brain injury, and other disorders of the CNS associated with altered brain water balance.
Aquaporin 9 (AQP9) is a member of the aquaporin channel family involved in water flux through plasma membranes and exhibits the distinct feature of being also permeable to monocarboxylates, such as lactate, and various solutes, including glycerol, carbamides, purines, pyrimidines, and urea. AQP9 is constitutively expressed at high levels in the liver. In the brain under physiological conditions, AQP9 was first observed in tanycytes, and then in astrocytes. Only recently, its expression was also shown in neurons. Neurons expressing AQP9 are catecholaminergic and glucose sensitive. The expression of neuronal AQP9 can be negatively regulated by insulin and in diabetic animals an increase in AQP9 expression is observed in the catecholaminergic nuclei of the hindbrain, similar to the regulation of AQP9 by insulin in the liver. Furthermore, after transient brain ischemia, AQP9 expression is increased in astrocytes and its regulation may implicate the MAP-kinase pathways stimulated in such pathological conditions. Despite these new data, the exact role of AQP9 in the brain is still unclear. However, we may hypothesize that AQP9 is implicated in brain energy metabolism, as a neutral solute channel. AQP9 could facilitate the diffusion of lactate from the astrocyte to the neuron. In glucose sensitive neurons, diffusion of lactate and glycerol could stimulate these neurons in a similar manner to glucose and could regulate the energy balance. In pathological conditions, induction of AQP9 in astrocytes could participate in the clearance of excess lactate in the extracellular space. These hypotheses concerning the function of brain AQP9 are still speculative and open new areas of investigation.
The epithelial cells of the choroid plexuses secrete cerebrospinal fluid (CSF), by a process which involves the transport of Na(+), Cl(-) and HCO(3)(-) from the blood to the ventricles of the brain. The unidirectional transport of ions is achieved due to the polarity of the epithelium, i.e. the ion transport proteins in the blood-facing (basolateral) membrane are different to those in the ventricular (apical) membrane. The movement of ions creates an osmotic gradient which drives the secretion of H(2)O. A variety of methods (e.g. isotope flux studies, electrophysiological, RT-PCR, in situ hybridization and immunocytochemistry) have been used to determine the expression of ion transporters and channels in the choroid plexus epithelium. Most of these transporters have now been localized to specific membranes. For example, Na(+)-K(+)ATPase, K(+) channels and Na(+)-2Cl(-)-K(+) cotransporters are expressed in the apical membrane. By contrast the basolateral membrane contains Cl(-)- HCO(3) exchangers, a variety of Na(+) coupled HCO(3)(-) transporters and K(+)-Cl(-) cotransporters. Aquaporin 1 mediates water transport at the apical membrane, but the route across the basolateral membrane is unknown. A model of CSF secretion by the mammalian choroid plexus is proposed which accommodates these proteins. The model also explains the mechanisms by which K(+) is transported from the CSF to the blood.
Emerging evidence suggests that brain aquaporins (AQP) play important roles for the dynamic regulation of brain water homeostasis and for the regulation of cerebrospinal fluid production. This review deals with the short- and long-term regulation of AQP4 and AQP9, both expressed in astrocytes, and of AQP1, expressed in the choroid plexus. AQP1 and 4 have in other cell types been shown to be regulated by phosphorylation. Phosphorylation affects the gating of AQP4 and the trafficking and insertion into membrane of AQP1. Mercury inhibits the water permeability of AQP1 and AQP9, but not AQP4. The permeability of AQP4 is increased by lead. AQP4 is also regulated by protein-protein interaction. The assembly between AQP4 and syntrophin is required for the proper localization of AQP4 in the astrocyte plasma membrane that faces capillaries. There is evidence from studies on peripheral tissues that steroid hormones regulate the expression of AQP1, AQP4 and AQP9. There is also evidence that the expression of AQP1 can be regulated by ubiquitination, and that osmolality can regulate the expression of AQP1, AQP4 and AQP9. Further insight into the mechanisms by which brain AQPs are regulated will be of utmost clinical importance, since perturbed water flow via brain AQPs has been implicated in many neurological diseases and since, in brain edema, water flow via AQP4 may have a harmful effect.
Aquaporin-4 (AQP4) is the major water channel expressed in brain perivascular astrocyte processes. Although the role of AQP4 in brain edema has been extensively investigated, little information exists regarding its functional role at the blood-brain barrier (BBB). The purpose of this work is to integrate previous and recent data regarding AQP4 expression during BBB formation and depending on BBB integrity, using several experimental models. Results from studies on the chick optic tectum, a well-established model of BBB development, and the effect of lipopolysaccharide on the BBB integrity and on perivascular AQP4 expression have been analyzed and discussed. Moreover, data on the BBB structure and AQP4 expression in murine models of Duchenne muscular dystrophy are reviewed. In particular, published results obtained from mdx(3cv) mice have been analyzed together with new data obtained from mdx mice in which all the dystrophin isoforms including DP71 are strongly reduced. Finally, the role of the endothelial component on AQP4 cellular expression and distribution has been investigated using rat primary astrocytes and brain capillary endothelial cell co-cultures as an in vitro model of BBB.
Each day, approximately 0.5-0.9 l of water diffuses through (primarily) aquaporin-1 (AQP1) channels in the human choroid plexus, into the cerebrospinal fluid of the brain ventricles and spinal cord central canal, through the ependymal cell lining, and into the parenchyma of the CNS. Additional water is also derived from metabolism of glucose within the CNS parenchyma. To maintain osmotic homeostasis, an equivalent amount of water exits the CNS parenchyma by diffusion into interstitial capillaries and into the subarachnoid space that surrounds the brain and spinal cord. Most of that efflux is through AQP4 water channels concentrated in astrocyte endfeet that surround capillaries and form the glia limitans. This report extends the ultrastructural and immunocytochemical characterizations of the crystalline aggregates of intramembrane proteins that comprise the AQP4 &quot;square arrays&quot; of astrocyte and ependymocyte plasma membranes. We elaborate on recent demonstrations in Chinese hamster ovary cells of the effects on AQP4 array assembly resulting from separate vs. combined expression of M1 and M23 AQP4, which are two alternatively spliced variants of the AQP4 gene. Using improved shadowing methods, we demonstrate sub-molecular cross-bridges that link the constituent intramembrane particles (IMPs) into regular square lattices of AQP4 arrays. We show that the AQP4 core particle is 4.5 nm in diameter, which appears to be too small to accommodate four monomeric proteins in a tetrameric IMP. Several structural models are considered that incorporate freeze-fracture data for submolecular &quot;cross-bridges&quot; linking IMPs into the classical square lattices that characterize, in particular, naturally occurring AQP4.
Aquaporin-4 (AQP4) is the predominant water channel in the neuropil of the central nervous system. It is expressed primarily in astrocytes, but also occurs in ependymocytes and endothelial cells. A striking feature of AQP4 expression is its polarized distribution in brain astrocytes and retinal Muller cells. Thus, immunogold analyses have revealed an enrichment of AQP4 in endfeet membranes in contact with brain microvessels or subarachnoidal space and a low but significant concentration in non-endfeet membranes, including those astrocyte membranes that ensheath glutamate synapses. The subcellular compartmentation of AQP4 mimics that of the potassium channel Kir4.1, which is implicated in spatial buffering of K(+). We propose that AQP4 works in concert with Kir4.1 and the electrogenic bicarbonate transporter NBC and that water flux through AQP4 contributes to the activity dependent volume changes of the extracellular space. Such volume changes are important as they affect the extracellular solute concentrations and electrical fields, and hence neuronal excitability. We conclude that AQP4-mediated water flux represents an integral element of brain volume and ion homeostasis.
Charles Darwin, in his Origin of the Species, noted that different species of finches on the Galapagos Islands had adapted their beak size based on where they sought their food. Homer Smith, in his book From Fish to Philosopher, discussed the evolution of the nephron from a single conduit in salt water vertebrates, to nephrons with large glomerular capillaries and proximal and distal tubules in fresh water vertebrates, to smaller glomerular capillaries in amphibians, to nephrons with loops of Henle to allow for urinary concentration and dilution in mammals. The kidney with its million nephrons has emerged as the vital organ for regulating body fluid composition and volume. With the recent discovery of aquaporin water channels, our understanding of volume regulation has been greatly enhanced. This article reviews current knowledge regarding: 1) the unifying hypothesis of body fluid volume regulation; 2) brain aquaporins and their role in pathophysiologic states; and 3) function and regulation of renal aquaporins in the syndrome of inappropriate antidiuretic hormone secretion (SIADH).
Astrocytes are highly complex cells that respond to a variety of external stimulations. One of the chief functions of astrocytes is to optimize the interstitial space for synaptic transmission by tight control of water and ionic homeostasis. Several lines of work have, over the past decade, expanded the role of astrocytes and it is now clear that astrocytes are active participants in the tri-partite synapse and modulate synaptic activity in hippocampus, cortex, and hypothalamus. Thus, the emerging concept of astrocytes includes both supportive functions as well as active modulation of neuronal output. Glutamate plays a central role in astrocytic-neuronal interactions. This excitatory amino acid is cleared from the neuronal synapses by astrocytes via glutamate transporters, and is converted into glutamine, which is released and in turn taken up by neurons. Furthermore, metabotropic glutamate receptor activation on astrocytes triggers via increases in cytosolic Ca(2+) a variety of responses. For example, calcium-dependent glutamate release from the astrocytes modulates the activity of both excitatory and inhibitory synapses. In vivo studies have identified the astrocytic end-foot processes enveloping the vessel walls as the center for astrocytic Ca(2+) signaling and it is possible that Ca(2+) signaling events in the cellular component of the blood-brain barrier are instrumental in modulation of local blood flow as well as substrate transport. The hormonal regulation of water and ionic homeostasis is achieved by the opposing effects of vasopressin and atrial natriuretic peptide on astroglial water and chloride uptake. In conjuncture, the brain appears to have a distinct astrocytic perivascular system, involving several potassium channels as well as aquaporin 4, a membrane water channel, which has been localized to astrocytic endfeet and mediate water fluxes within the brain. The multitask functions of astrocytes are essential for higher brain function. One of the major challenges for future studies is to link receptor-mediated signaling events in astrocytes to their roles in metabolism, ion, and water homeostasis.
Extrasynaptic communication between neurons or neurons and glia is mediated by the diffusion of neuroactive substances in the volume of the extracellular space (ECS). The size and irregular geometry of the diffusion channels in the ECS substantially differ not only around individual cells but also in different CNS regions and thus affect and direct the movement of various neuroactive substances in the ECS. Diffusion in the CNS is therefore not only inhomogeneous, but often also anisotropic. The diffusion parameters in adult mammals (including humans), ECS volume fraction alpha (alpha=ECS volume/total tissue volume) and tortuosity lambda (lambda(2)=free/apparent diffusion coefficient), are typically 0.20-0.25 and 1.5-1.6, respectively, and as such hinder the diffusion of neuroactive substances and water. These diffusion parameters modulate neuronal signaling, neuron-glia communication and extrasynaptic &quot;volume&quot; transmission. A significant decrease in ECS volume fraction and an increase in diffusion barriers (tortuosity) occur during neuronal activity and pathological states. The changes are often related to cell swelling, cell loss, astrogliosis, the rearrangement of neuronal and astrocytic processes and changes in the extracellular matrix. They are also altered during physiological states such as development, lactation and aging. Plastic changes in ECS volume, tortuosity and anisotropy significantly affect neuron-glia communication, the spatial relation of glial processes toward synapses, glutamate or GABA &quot;spillover&quot; and synaptic crosstalk. The various changes in tissue diffusivity occurring during many pathological states are important for diagnosis, drug delivery and treatment.
The mammalian CNS is separated from the blood by tight junctions, collectively termed the blood-brain barrier (BBB). This imposes unique features of solvent and water movement into and out of the CNS. The basic equations for water fluxes driven by osmotic gradients are presented. The anatomy of the BBB and the physiology of the transport processes for cerebrospinal fluid production, extracellular fluid production and intercellular water and solute transport are then described. A quantitative analysis of the need for aquaporin-based water movements to accompany the known rates of CSF production is also presented. Finally, the mechanisms and roles of cellular and vasogenic edema in the CNS, especially in relation to aquaporins, are described.

We sought to determine if plasticity in the ventral tegmental area (VTA) of the midbrain is involved in learning to associate morphine exposure with a specific environment. For this, we tested whether activation of glutamate receptors and protein kinase A is needed for the acquisition and expression of a morphine-conditioned place preference (CPP). Rats received bilateral microinjections of either the NMDA antagonist AP5 (0.48 nmol/0.3 microl), the AMPA antagonist CNQX (0.21 nmol/0.3 microl), or vehicle into the VTA prior to each of three morphine-conditioning sessions. Both the AMPA and NMDA receptor antagonists blocked the development of morphine CPP when given into the VTA but not when given outside the VTA. In similar studies the protein kinase A (PKA) inhibitor, Rp-cAMPS (13 nmol/0.3 microl), blocked the acquisition of morphine CPP when given into the VTA immediately after morphine conditioning. In separate experiments, glutamate antagonists, or Rp-cAMPS, immediately prior to the preference test blocked the expression of morphine CPP when microinjected into the VTA. These data indicate that the VTA is an important site for synaptic modifications involved in the learning and memory of environmental cues predicting reward, and that glutamate input and PKA activation are crucial to this process.
It has been demonstrated that tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) gene is easily regulated in the CNS as well as peripheral nervous systems by stressful conditions. The stimuli, such as stress or reserpine administration, significantly increased the TH gene in noradrenergic neurons in the locus ceruleus (LC), but not in dopaminergic neurons in the substantia nigra (SN). To explore the molecular mechanisms governing differential TH gene regulation in catecholaminergic cells, the present study investigated the regulation of immediate early gene (c-Fos), transcription factors (pCREB, CREB binding protein [CBP]), mitogen-activated protein (MAP) kinases (phospho-extra-cellular regulated kinase [pERK]1/2, phospho-p38 MAP kinase [p-p38 MAPK], phospho-c-Jun N-terminal kinase [pJNK]) in the LC and SN in control conditions and in response to 2 h restraint stress (RS). Significant induction of c-Fos expression was observed in the LC, but not in the SN. In addition, pERK1/2 significantly increased following 2 h RS specifically in the LC, but not in the SN. No significant change was observed in p-p38 MAPK and pJNK. The expression of c-Fos and pERK1/2 preceded the upregulation of TH in the LC. Furthermore, pCREB and CBP also increased in the LC in response to 2 h RS. The induction of c-Fos prior to TH, in conjunction with the upregulation of pCREB and CBP in the LC, suggests that activator protein 1 and CRE transcription sites in the TH gene may be involved in the cell-type specific activation in the stress response, at least, by pERK1/2.
This study describes the anatomical projections from vestibular secondary neurons to reticulospinal neurons in the adult lamprey and the modulation of vestibular inputs during fictive locomotion. Anatomical tracers were applied in the posterior (PRRN) and middle rhombencephalic reticular nuclei as well as to the proximal stumps of cut vestibular nerve branches to identify the neurons projecting to the reticular nuclei that were in close proximity with vestibular primary afferents. Labeled neurons were found in the intermediate (ION) and posterior (PON) octavomotor nuclei, and were more numerous on the side of the injection (around 56-87 and 101-107 for the ION and the PON, respectively). Morphologies varied but cells were mostly round or oval. Axonal projections from the PON formed a dense bundle, whereas those from the ION were less densely packed. Based on their morphology and the distribution of their projections, most vestibulo-reticular neurons were presumed to be vestibulospinal cells. Reticulospinal cells from the PRRN were recorded intracellularly in the in vitro brainstem-spinal cord preparation and large excitatory post-synaptic potentials (EPSPs) were evoked following stimulation of the ipsilateral anterior and the contralateral posterior branches of the vestibular nerves, whereas inhibitory post-synaptic potentials (IPSPs) or smaller EPSPs were elicited by stimulation of the ipsilateral posterior or of the contralateral anterior branches. During fictive locomotion, both the excitatory and the inhibitory responses displayed phasic changes in amplitude such that the amplitude of the EPSPs was minimal when the spinal cord activity switched from the ipsilateral to the contralateral side of the recorded reticulospinal cell. The IPSPs were then of maximal amplitude. We propose that this modulation could serve to reduce the influence of vestibular inputs in response to head movements during locomotion.
As the distribution of apelinergic neurons in the brain suggests an important role of apelin-13 in the regulation of neuroendocrine processes, in the present experiments the effects of this recently identified neuropeptide on the open-field activity, the hypothalamo-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) system and the body temperature were investigated. I.c.v. administration of apelin-13 (1-10 microg) to rats caused significant increases in square crossing, rearing, plasma corticosterone release and core temperature, whereas it did not influence the spontaneous motor activity during telemetric observation. To determine the mediation of the actions of apelin, a corticotropin-releasing hormone (CRH) antagonist, the nonselective dopamine antagonist haloperidol, the selective dopamine D1 receptor antagonist SCH-23390 and the nitric oxide synthase inhibitor Nomega-nitro-L-arginine-methyl ester (L-NAME) were administered to the rats. The apelin-evoked HPA activation was diminished by preadministration of the CRH antagonist, while the dopamine antagonist and L-NAME attenuated only the square crossing and rearing induced by apelin-13. To characterize the transmission of the thermoregulatory action of apelin, animals were pretreated either with L-NAME, the CRH antagonist or with the cyclooxygenase inhibitor noraminophenazone. L-NAME and the CRH antagonist did not cause significant inhibition of the apelin-evoked increase in core temperature, while the cyclooxygenase inhibitor, applied 30 min before peptide treatment, did not prove effective in preventing the apelin-evoked thermoregulatory response, whereas when it was administered 2 h after the peptide treatment, it transiently and significantly reduced the hyperthermic response. The present data suggest that apelin-13 plays an important role in the regulation of behavioral, endocrine and homeostatic responses in the CNS, and dopamine, nitric oxide and prostaglandins seem to take part in the mediation of its effects. Since the corticosterone response could be blocked by the CRH antagonist, it is likely to be mediated through the activation of the CRH neurons.
The basal forebrain (BF) contains cholinergic neurons that stimulate cortical activation during waking. In addition, both the BF and adjacent preoptic area (POA) contain neurons that promote sleep. We examined c-Fos expression in cholinergic and GABAergic neurons in the BF and POA to determine whether they are differentially active following sleep deprivation versus recovery and whether the GABAergic neurons are active during sleep. Whereas the numbers of c-Fos+ cells and proportions of c-Fos+ cells that were cholinergic were decreased, the proportions that were GABAergic were increased following sleep recovery across BF and POA nuclei. Moreover, the sleep-active GABAergic neurons were immunostained for alpha2A-adrenergic receptors. We conclude that GABAergic neurons that commonly bear alpha2-adrenergic receptors comprise sleep-active cells of the BF and POA. These GABAergic cells would be inhibited by noradrenaline (NA) released from locus coeruleus neurons during waking; they would be disinhibited through diminished NA release during drowsiness and thus become active to promote sleep by inhibiting in turn wake-promoting neurons.
Persistence of horizontal cell (HC) light responses in extracellular solutions containing low Ca2+ plus divalent cations to block Ca2+ currents (ICa) has been attributed to Ca2+-independent neurotransmission. Using a retinal slice preparation to record both ICa and light responses, we demonstrate that persistence of HC responses in low [Ca2+]o can instead be explained by a paradoxical increase of Ca2+ influx into photoreceptor terminals arising from surface charge-mediated shifts in ICa activation. Consistent with this explanation, application of Zn2+ or Ni2+ caused a hyperpolarizing block of HC light responses that was relieved by lowering [Ca2+]o. The same concentrations of Zn2+ and Ni2+ reduced the amplitude of ICa at the rod dark potential and this reduction was relieved by a hyperpolarizing shift in voltage dependence induced by lowering [Ca2+]o. Block of ICa by Mg2+, which has weak surface charge effects, was not relieved by low [Ca2+]o. Recovery of HC responses in low [Ca2+]o was assisted by enhancement of rod light responses. To bypass light stimulation, OFF bipolar cells were stimulated by steps to -40 mV applied to presynaptic rods during simultaneous paired recordings. Consistent with surface charge theory, the post-synaptic current was inhibited by Zn2+ and this inhibition was relieved by lowering [Ca2+]o. Nominally divalent-free media produced inversion of HC light responses even though rod light responses remained hyperpolarizing; HC response inversion can be explained by surface charge-mediated shifts in ICa. In summary, HC light responses modifications induced by low divalent cation solutions can be explained by effects on photoreceptor light responses and membrane surface charge without necessitating Ca2+-independent neurotransmission. Furthermore, these results suggest that surface charge effects accompanying physiological changing divalent cation levels in the synaptic cleft may provide a means for modulating synaptic output from photoreceptors.
Light exposure can exacerbate the condition of a variety of human retinal diseases by increasing the rate of photoreceptor cell death. How light negatively affects photoreceptor cell survival is not yet fully understood. Previous studies involving light damage models have revealed two independent apoptotic pathways: low levels of light induce retinal degeneration in the arrestin -/- mouse via constitutive activation of the phototransduction cascade, whereas strong light exposure to the retina, such as in an albino eye, elicits photoreceptor cell death via activator protein (AP-1) induction. In order to better understand the initial gene expression changes underlying light damage, dark-reared arrestin -/- and albino BALB/c mice were exposed to constant white light (2000 lux), and their retinal morphology was assessed as a function of time. The expression profiles of retinal transcripts were then compared between dark-adapted and light-exposed arrestin -/-, pigmented wild-type and BALB/c mice at a time point when morphological changes were minimal. As expected, the dark-adapted samples showed little difference in expression pattern between the three genotypes. Among the genes differentially regulated by light in BALB/c, but not arrestin -/- retinas, were c-fos and other stress-induced early response genes. In both mouse models, a marked increase in expression of the bZIP family of transcription factors was observed. Our results show a select group of unique and overlapping sets of genes induced by light in the two mouse models. These expression changes may constitute the underlying initiating events leading to the two distinct mechanisms of light damage.
A catastrophic consequence of peripheral nerve injury is the development of abnormal, chronic neuropathic pain. The inflammatory response at the injury site is believed to contribute to the generation and maintenance of such persistent pain. However, the physiological significance and potential contribution of T cells to neuropathic pain remains unclear. Here we show that T cells infiltrate injured sciatic nerves following chronic constriction injury (CCI), but not uninjured nerves. Congenitally athymic nude rats, which lack mature T cells, developed a significantly reduced mechanical allodynia and thermal hyperalgesia following CCI, compared with their heterozygous littermates. To understand further the role played by different T-cell subsets, we generated polarized populations of type 1 and type 2 T cells, with different cytokine secretion profiles, from spleens of sciatic nerve-injured heterozygous rats. Passive transfer of type 1 T cells, which produce proinflammatory cytokines, into nude rats enhanced the recipients' pain hypersensitivity to a level similar to that of heterozygous donor rats. In contrast, passive transfer of polarized type 2 T cells, which produce anti-inflammatory cytokines, into heterozygous rats modestly though significantly attenuated their pain hypersensitivity. Thus, injection of type 1 and type 2 T-cell subsets produces opposing effects on neuropathic pain. These findings suggest the modulation of the T-cell immune response as a potential target for the treatment of neuropathic pain.
The major aim of this study was to elucidate the role of nitric oxide (NO) in the development of pentylenetetrazole (PTZ)-kindling as an animal model of primary generalized epilepsy. The daily administration of PTZ is associated with an increase in the amount of neuronal nitric oxide synthase (nNOS). NO generation was measured directly by in vivo and ex vivo electron paramagnetic resonance on rodents undergoing progressive convulsions. We found that primary generalized epilepsy is caused by NO induction during the persistent up-regulation of nNOS expression, but that NO induction is not associated with severe generalized seizures following long-term kindling phenomena after PTZ withdrawal. Morphological changes in the brain structure of rats were measured by magnetic resonance imaging during epileptic convulsions induced by repetitive administration of PTZ. Cerebellum volume for kindled rats decreased 20% but not in rats treated with the nNOS inhibitor, 3Br-7NI, suggesting that generation of NO in the cerebellum is related to decrease in cerebellum volume following PTZ-kindling.
Endothelin (ET) type A receptor antagonists enhance morphine-induced antinociception and restore morphine analgesia in morphine tolerant rats [Peptides 23 (2002) 1837; Peptides 24 (2003) 553]. These studies suggest that the central ET and opioid systems functionally interact. To explore this idea further, we determined the effect of i.c.v. administration of anti-ET-1 IgG (rabbit) on brain opioid receptor and ET receptor expression. Three days after implanting cannula into the lateral ventricle, male Sprague-Dawley rats were administered 10 microl (i.c.v.) of either control rabbit IgG (2.5 microg/microl) or anti-ET IgG (2.5 microg/microl) on day 1, day 3, and day 5. On day 6, animals were killed and the caudate and hippocampus collected. Anti-ET IgG had no significant effect on expression, measured by Western blots, of mu, delta or ET-B receptors, but increased kappa opioid (59%) and ET-A (33%) receptor protein expression in the caudate. [35S]-GTP-gamma-S binding assays demonstrated that anti-ET IgG decreased [D-Ala2-MePhe4, Gly-ol5]enkephalin efficacy, but not potency in the caudate. Control experiments showed that there was no detectable rabbit IgG in caudate and hippocampal samples. These results suggest that ET in the CSF negatively regulates kappa opioid and ET-A receptors in certain brain regions. These findings support the hypothesis that CSF neuropeptides have regulatory effects and further demonstrate a link between ET and the opioid receptor system.
The role of endocannabinoid signaling in the response of the brain to injury is tantalizing but not clear. In this study, transient middle cerebral artery occlusion (MCAo) was used to produce ischemia/reperfusion injury. Brain content of N-arachidonoylethanolamine (AEA) and 2-arachidonoylglycerol were determined during MCAo. Whole brain AEA content was significantly increased after 30, 60 and 120 min MCAo compared with sham-operated brain. The increase in AEA was localized to the ischemic hemisphere after 30 min MCAo, but at 60 and 120 min, was also increased in the contralateral hemisphere. 2-Arachidonoylglycerol content was unaffected by MCAo. In a second set of studies, injury was assessed 24 h after 2 h MCAo. Rats administered a single dose (3 mg/kg) of the cannabinoid receptor type 1 (CB1) receptor antagonist SR141716 prior to MCAo exhibited a 50% reduction in infarct volume and a 40% improvement in neurological function compared with vehicle control. A second CB1 receptor antagonist, LY320135 (6 mg/kg), also significantly improved neurological function. The CB1 receptor agonist, WIN 55212-2 (0.1-1 mg/kg) did not affect either infarct volume or neurological score.
Significant potentiation of analgesic effects of opioids can be achieved through selective blockade of their stimulatory effects on intracellular signaling pathways by ultra-low doses of opioid receptor antagonists. However, the generality and specificity of this interaction is not well understood. The bimodal modulation of pentylenetetrazole-induced seizure threshold by opioids provide a model to assess the potential usefulness of this approach in seizure disorders and to examine the differential mechanisms involved in opioid anti- (morphine at 0.5-3 mg/kg) versus pro-convulsant (20-100 mg/kg) effects. Systemic administration of ultra-low doses of naltrexone (100 fg/kg-10 ng/kg) significantly potentiated the anticonvulsant effect of morphine at 0.5 mg/kg while higher degrees of opioid receptor antagonism blocked this effect. Moreover, inhibition of opioid-induced excitatory signaling by naltrexone (1 ng/kg) unmasked a strong anticonvulsant effect for very low doses of morphine (1 ng/kg-100 microg/kg), suggesting that a presumed inhibitory component of opioid receptor signaling can exert strong seizure-protective effects even at very low levels of opioid receptor activation. However, ultra-low dose naltrexone could not increase the maximal anticonvulsant effect of morphine (1-3 mg/kg), possibly due to a ceiling effect. The proconvulsant effects of morphine on seizure threshold were minimally altered by ultra-low doses of naltrexone while being completely blocked by a higher dose (1 mg/kg) of the antagonist. The present data suggest that ultra-low doses of opioid receptor antagonists may provide a potent strategy to modulate seizure susceptibility, especially in conjunction with very low doses of opioids.
Hypocretin is a potential regulator of sleep and wakefulness and its levels fluctuate with the day-night cycle with high levels during the animal's activity period. Whether the daily fluctuations are driven endogenously or by external light cycles is unknown. We investigated the circadian and homeostatic regulation of hypocretin in the absence of environmental light cycles. To this purpose we performed repetitive samplings of cerebrospinal fluid in rats through implanted microcannulas in the cisterna magna and determined hypocretin-1 levels by radioimmunoassay. These experiments were also performed in rats that received a lesion of the suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN), a major pacemaker for circadian rhythms in mammals. The results showed sustained rhythmicity of hypocretin in constant dim red light in control animals. SCN-lesioned animals showed no circadian rhythms in hypocretin and mean hypocretin levels were remarkably low. The results indicate that the SCN is indispensable for rhythmicity in hypocretin and induces a daily increase in hypocretin levels during the animal's active phase. Additional sleep deprivation experiments were carried out to investigate homeostatic regulation of hypocretin. Hypocretin levels increased in response to sleep deprivation in both control and SCN-lesioned animals, demonstrating that sleep homeostatic control of hypocretin occurs independently from the SCN. Our data indicate that the circadian pacemaker of the SCN and sleep homeostatic mechanisms converge on one single sleep regulatory substance.
In recent years, there has been growing interest in the putative relationship between stress and vulnerability to relapse in former drug addicts. In animal studies aimed at exploring this relationship, it has been shown that brief exposure to intermittent footshock stress produces reliable reinstatement of drug seeking after prolonged drug-free periods. Whereas footshock reinstates drug seeking, it does not reinstate behaviors maintained by non-drug reinforcers, suggesting that prior drug experience may produce a form of sensitization within neuronal systems that mediate stress-induced reinstatement. The primary objective of the present experiments was to determine whether pre-exposure to cocaine produces a long-lasting, sensitized neuronal response to footshock stress within two brain regions known to mediate footshock-induced reinstatement; the central nucleus of the amygdala (CeA) and bed nucleus of the stria terminalis (BNST). In experiment 1, animals were injected for 7 days with cocaine (days 1 and 7 in test chambers; days 2-6 in homecages) or saline. After 21 drug-free days, they were exposed to footshock or no footshock. In experiment 2, rats were injected daily for 7 days with cocaine in one of two contexts and saline in the alternate context. After 21 drug-free days, they were given footshock either in the same context that they were given cocaine in or the alternate context. In CeA, footshock produced enhanced expression of c-fos mRNA in cocaine, but not saline, pre-exposed animals. Furthermore, this effect was gated by the environmental context in which cocaine was given; footshock only enhanced c-fos mRNA expression when it was given in a context that had previously been paired with cocaine. Although footshock induced c-fos mRNA expression in the BNST, its effects in this region were not dependent on drug history. The major findings are that a history of cocaine exposure produces sensitization to an acute stressor within CeA, and this effect is gated by environmental context.
Serotonin 5-hydroxytryptamine type 3 receptors (5HT3R) are Ca2+-permeant, non-selective cation channels that have been localized to presynaptic terminals and demonstrated to modulate neurotransmitter release. In the present study the effect of 5-HT on GABA release in the hippocampus was characterized using both electrophysiological and biochemical techniques. 5-HT elicited a burst-like, 6- to 10-fold increase in the frequency of GABAA receptor-mediated inhibitory postsynaptic currents (IPSCs) measured with whole-cell voltage-clamp recordings of CA1 neurons in hippocampal slices. When tetrodotoxin was used to block action potential propagation, the 5-HT-induced burst of IPSCs was still observed. Stimulation of hippocampal synaptosomes with 5-HT resulted in a significant increase in the amount of [3H]GABA released by hyperosmotic saline. In both preparations, the 5-HT effect was shown to be mediated by 5HT3Rs, as it was mimicked by the selective 5HT3R agonist m-chlorophenyl biguanide and blocked by the selective 5HT3R antagonist 3-tropanylindole-3-carboxylate hydrochloride. The 5HT3R-mediated increase in GABA release was blocked by 100 microM cadmium or by omitting Ca2+ in external solutions, indicating the Ca2+-dependence of the effect. The high voltage-activated Ca2+ channel blockers omega-conotoxin GVIA and omega-conotoxin MVIIC and 10 microM cadmium had no significant effect on the 5-HT3R-mediated enhancement of GABA release, indicating that Ca2+ influx through the 5-HT3R facilitates GABA release. Taken together, these data provide direct evidence that Ca2+ entry via presynaptic 5HT3Rs facilitates the release of GABA from hippocampal interneurons.
Neural injury triggers changes in the expression of a large number of gene families. Particularly interesting are those encoding proteins involved in the generation, propagation or restoration of electric potentials. The expression of the Na+, K+-ATPase subunit isoforms (alpha, beta and gamma) was studied in dorsal root ganglion (DRG) and sciatic nerve of the rat in normal conditions, after axotomy and during regeneration. In normal DRG, alpha1 and alpha2 are expressed in the plasma membrane of all cell types, while there is no detectable signal for alpha3 in most DRG cells. After axotomy, alpha1 and alpha2 expression decreases evenly in all cells, while there is a remarkable onset in alpha3 expression, with a peak about day 3, which gradually disappears throughout regeneration (day 7). beta1 Is restricted to the nuclear envelope and plasma membrane of neurons and satellite cells. Immediately after injury, beta1 shows a homogeneous distribution in the soma of neurons. No beta2 expression was found. Beta3 Specific immunofluorescence appears in all neurons, although it is brightest in the smallest, diminishing progressively after injury until day 3 and, thereafter, increasing in intensity, until it reaches normal levels. FXYD7 is expressed weakly in a few DRG neurons (less than 2%) and Schwann cells. It increases intensely in satellite cells immediately after axotomy, and in all cell types at day 3. Transient switching of members of the Na+, K+-ATPase isoform family elicited by axotomy suggests variations in the sodium pump isozymes with different affinities for Na+, K+ and ATP from those in intact nerve. This adaptation may be important for regeneration.
The mediodorsal (MD) nucleus of the thalamus has long been known to provide the principal source of subcortical input to the primate prefrontal cortex, as well as to other areas of the frontal lobe that are thought to contribute to higher-order cognitive functions. In this study, we used injections of retrograde tracers in the lateral portion of the monkey MD to assess the locations of labeled cells in subcortical structures. Three main patterns were identified in the distribution of subcortical connections. We found that the claustrum, superior colliculus and ventral midbrain regions were heavily labeled in the cases with injections in caudoventral MD. In these cases, labeled cells were also found in either the periaqueductal gray or zona incerta, depending on the specific case. In one case with an injection in anterodorsal MD, labeled cells were most numerous in the structures of the ventral midbrain, especially the ventral tegmental area. Finally, the claustrum and superior colliculus contained the largest percentage of labeled subcortical cells in cases with injections in ventrolateral MD. These three patterns of subcortical label corresponded to three equally distinctive trends in the distribution of MD connections with the cortex in these same cases [J Comp Neurol 473 (2004) 107]. Very few labeled cells were found in other areas such as the amygdala, globus pallidus and deep cerebellar nuclei, suggesting that pathways leading from these structures to dorsolateral and dorsomedial frontal cortices are not likely to include the lateral divisions of MD. In concert, these findings show that particular locales within lateral MD receive distinct profiles of subcortical afferents, and project into specific neocortical domains, suggesting that these different sites within lateral MD may participate in functionally distinct circuits of information processing.
Mitogen-activated protein kinase-1 (MAPK-1) and MAPK-3 regulate survival and programmed cell death of neurons under stress conditions. The activity of MAPK-1 and MAPK-3 is regulated by dual specificity phosphatases: MKP-1 and MKP-3. In previous studies, we have shown that cerebral hypoxia results in increased activation of MAPK-1 and MAPK-3. Furthermore, we have shown that the hypoxia-induced activation of MAPK is nitric oxide (NO)-mediated. The present study tested the hypothesis that hypoxia results in altered expression and activity of MKP-1 and MKP-3 in neuronal nuclei and the administration of 7-nitro-indazole (7-NINA; 1 mg/kg, 60 min prior to hypoxia), a selective nNOS inhibitor, will prevent the hypoxia-induced alteration in the expression and activity of MKP-1 and MKP-3. To test this hypothesis expression and activity of MKP-1 and MKP-3 were determined in neuronal nuclei of normoxic (Nx; n=5), hypoxic (Hx; n=5) and 7-NINA-pretreated-hypoxic (7-NINA-Hx; n=5). Hypoxia was achieved by exposing the animals to an FiO2 of 0.07 for 60 min. Cerebral tissue hypoxia was documented biochemically by determining ATP and phosphocreatine levels. Neuronal nuclei were isolated using discontinuous sucrose gradient centrifugation and purified. Nuclear proteins were analyzed by Western blot using specific antibodies for MKP-1 and MKP-3 (Santa Cruz, CA, USA). The protein band density was determined by imaging densitometry and expressed as OD x mm2. The density of MKP-1 was 61.57+/-5.68, 155.86+/-44.02 and 69.88+/-25.54 in the Nx, Hx and 7-NINA-Hx groups, respectively (P&lt;0.05, ANOVA). Similarly, the density of MKP-3 was 66.46+/-5.88, 172.04+/-33.10 and 116.88+/-14.66 in the Nx, Hx and 7-NINA-Hx groups, respectively (P&lt;0.05, ANOVA). The data show an increased expression of MKP-1 and MKP-3 during hypoxia in neuronal nuclei of newborn piglets and the administration of 7-NINA, an nNOS inhibitor, prevented the hypoxia-induced increased expression of MKP-1 and MKP-3. The activity of MKP-1 (pmol/min) was 176.17+/-16.95 in Nx, 97.56+/-10.64 in Hx and 130+/-14.42 in the 7-NINA-Hx groups, respectively (P&lt;0.05, ANOVA). Similarly the activity of MKP-3 was 104.11+/-12.17 in Nx, 36.29+/-16.88 in Hx and 77.89+/-20.18 in the 7-NINA groups, respectively (P&lt;0.05, ANOVA). The results demonstrate that cerebral hypoxia results in increased expression of MKP-1 and MKP-3 expression that was prevented by the administration of 7-NINA. In contrast, hypoxia resulted in decreased activity of MKP-1 and MKP-3 that was prevented by the administration of a nNOS inhibitor. We conclude that hypoxia-induced decrease in MKP-1 and MKP-3 activity is not due to altered expression but due to NO-mediated modification of the cysteine residue at the active site of these dual specificity phosphatases, a mechanism of their inactivation that leads to activation of MAP kinases.
A single injection of cisplatin, a cytostatic agent, (5 microg/g body weight) in 10-day old rats leads later to the reorganization of the cerebellar cortex in lobules VI-VIII of the vermis. Double immunofluorescence reaction for glutamate receptor (GluR)2/3, a ionotropic glutamate receptor that labels postsynaptically Purkinje neurons, and glutamic acid decarboxylase (GAD)65, an isoform of the GABA synthesis enzyme that labels presynaptically inhibitory terminals in the molecular layer, were employed. Less-differentiated Purkinje cells were present in rats treated on postnatal day (PD)11 at the top of lobule VI and in lobules VII-VIII, in comparison with the deep zones of the same lobules and lobule III. The changes were interpreted as due to loss of trophic factors of Purkinje cell growth, e.g. signaling molecules and granule cells. However, we have shown that a remodelling of Purkinje cell dendrites occurred on PD30 (20 days after cisplatin). In fact, despite of the GluR2/3 labeling of the entire Purkinje cell dendrites, the GAD65 immunofluorescent terminals were adjacent to the proximal parts of the dendrite, while they were scarce in the distal dendritic branchlets. The findings were discussed in relation to the changed cytoarchitecture of the cerebellar cortex, which from PD17 to PD30 includes regeneration of the external germinal layer, reorientation of the main dendritic branches and of the Purkinje cell branchlets, and the presence of ectopic cells.
We explored the contribution of different calcium channel types to the long-term potentiation (LTP) of superior cervical ganglion of the rat. Right after a conditioning train of 40 Hz for 5 s, the maximum amplitude of the postsynaptic response (maximum potentiation) increased 5.6+/-0.5-fold. Potentiation decreased to 20% of its initial value within the following 70.0+/-8.0 min (LTP decay time). The contribution of P/Q-, N- and L-type calcium channels to LTP was studied by blocking their activity with synthetic funnel-web spider toxin (10 or 100 microM), omega-conotoxin GVIA (5 microM) or nifedipine (10 microM), respectively. The three blockers reduced the amplitude of the postsynaptic compound action potential before the conditioning train. After the train, all of the toxins reduced the LTP decay time and the integral of the amplitude versus time curve, defined as the LTP extent. In addition, all three blockers increased the maximum potentiation. Our results demonstrate that different calcium channel types contribute to ganglionic LTP. These effects may be by coupling excitation-secretion from different types of synaptic vesicles.
Monosynaptic excitatory postsynaptic potentials (EPSPs) evoked by stimulating ipsilateral ventrolateral column (VLC) in the thoracic section were recorded in lumbar motoneurons within the isolated spinal cord of the frog Rana ridibunda. Bath application of the selective GABAB receptor agonist (-)-baclofen (0.05 mM) caused a reduction in the peak amplitude of VLC EPSP. Baclofen did not cause any consistent change in the membrane potential or in the EPSP waveform within frog motoneurones. The selective GABA(B) receptor antagonist saclofen (0.1 mM) completely blocked the effect of (-)-baclofen on VLC EPSP. A decrease in VLC EPSP peak amplitude was also observed during GABA (0.5 mM) application. Unlike (-)-baclofen, inhibition of VLC EPSP induced by GABA was accompanied by a shortening of the EPSP time course and a reduction in membrane input resistance within lumbar motoneurons. The decrease in VLC EPSP peak amplitude induced by (-)-baclofen and GABA was accompanied by an increase in the paired-pulse facilitation. These data provide evidence for a dual pre- and postsynaptic GABAergic inhibition of the VLC monosynaptic EPSP in lumbar motoneurons within the frog spinal cord.
Actions of gonadal steroids have not been widely investigated in the peripheral nervous system, although many dorsal root ganglion (DRG) and autonomic pelvic ganglion (PG) neurons express estrogen receptors (ERs). We have studied the effects of 17beta-estradiol exposure on cultured DRG and PG neurons from adult rats. Western blotting analysis of DRG extracts detected phosphorylation of ERK1 and ERK2 (extracellular signal-regulated kinases) that peaked 10 min after exposure to 17beta-estradiol. These extracts contain both neurons and glia; therefore, to determine if this response occurred in DRG neurons, we developed an immunocytochemical method to specifically measure activation in individual neurons. These measurements showed that estradiol increased phosphorylation of CREB (cyclic AMP response-element binding protein), which was consistently blocked by the ERK pathway inhibitor PD98059 but not by the inhibitors of phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase, wortmannin and LY294002. 17beta-Estradiol activation of CREB in DRG neurons was reduced by the ER antagonist, ICI182780. In contrast, in PG neurons estradiol did not affect CREB phosphorylation, highlighting a difference in E2 responses in different populations of peripheral neurons. This study has shown that estrogens can rapidly activate signaling pathways associated with CREB-mediated transcriptional regulation in sensory neurons. As these pathways also mediate many effects of neurotrophic factors, changes in estrogen levels (e.g. during puberty, pregnancy or menopause) could have broad-ranging genomic and non-genomic actions on urogenital pain sensation and reflex pathways.
Studies conducted in cell culture indicate that the gamma-secretase involved in amyloid beta-formation and Notch signaling is a multisubunit aspartic protease. Little is known, however, of the structure, function, or localization of gamma-secretase in the adult brain, or possible effects of familial Alzheimer's disease (FAD)-causing mutations on the brain protease. We report here that mouse brain contains a complex composed of gamma-secretase subunits presenilin-1 N-terminal fragment, presenilin-1 C-terminal fragment, Nicastrin, Aph-1a and Pen-2. A homozygous FAD-linked Presenilin-1 knock-in mutation does not alter relative subunit levels. Immunocytochemical localization of gamma-secretase subunits revealed overlapping but distinct regional and subcellular distributions. All subunits are expressed throughout the neuraxis predominantly in neurons, and are present in axons. Their distributions and levels of expression are unaffected by mutant presenilin-1. In a presenilin-1/amyloid precursor protein double knock-in mouse, subunits are associated with plaques, but are expressed at similar levels in amyloid-rich and -poor regions. gamma-Secretase subunits are distributed much more extensively than circumscribed amyloid deposits, suggesting the importance of other factors for localized amyloid deposition. These results indicate a widespread neuronal function for gamma-secretase in the adult brain, and suggest the pathogenic mechanism of FAD-linked mutations does not involve alterations in the composition, expression or brain distribution of the protease. The subcellular localization of gamma-secretase subunits is consistent with a nerve terminal source for amyloid aggregates.
Hyperpolarisation-activated non-specific cation currents (Ih currents) are important for the regulation of cell excitability. These currents are carried by channels of the hyperpolarisation-activated nucleotide-gated (HCN) family, of which there are four known subtypes. In the enteric nervous system (ENS), the Ih current is prominent in AH neurons. We investigated the expression and localization of HCN isoforms in the ENS of mice, rats and guinea-pigs. HCN1, HCN2 and HCN4 were expressed in enteric neurons. Immunoreactivity for HCN1 was observed on neuronal cell membranes of Dogiel type II neurons in rat and mouse. HCN2 channel immunoreactivity occurred in the majority of enteric neurons in the guinea-pig, rat and mouse. Immunoreactivity for HCN4 protein was revealed on the cell membranes of many neurons, including Dogiel type II neurons, in the guinea-pig. HCN4 was expressed by glial cells in guinea-pig. There was no evidence of HCN3 channel protein in any species with either immunohistochemistry or Western analysis. RT-PCR (polymerase chain reaction) using mouse HCN primers revealed mRNA for all four channels in the longitudinal muscle plus myenteric plexus of mouse distal colon. Sequencing confirmed the identity of the mRNA. Quantitative PCR demonstrated that HCN2 was the most highly expressed HCN channel subtype in the myenteric plexus of mouse distal colon. HCN1 and HCN4 were expressed at lower levels. HCN3 subtype mRNA was 0.2% of HCN2. We used intracellular recording to identify neurons having Ih currents and intracellular dye filling to locate the neurons for the immunohistochemical determination of channel expression. AH neurons with Ih currents were HCN2 and HCN4 channel positive. There was no correlation between the magnitude of the Ih and intensity of channel immunoreactivity. Our results indicate that HCN1, 2 and 4 genes and protein are expressed in the ENS. AH/Dogiel type II neurons, which have a prominent Ih, express HCN2 and 4 in guinea-pig and HCN1 and 2 in mouse and rat.
Various chronic stress paradigms decrease new cell proliferation in the hippocampal dentate gyrus, yet the exact underlying mechanism is still unclear. In the first gap (G1) phase of the cell cycle, both stimulatory and inhibitory signals derived from the extracellular environment converge. Corticosteroids, which increase during stress and are well-known anti-mitotics, cause cells in vitro to arrest in the G1 phase. Following 3 weeks of unpredictable stress, we therefore expected a change in protein expression of various important G1 cell cycle regulators in the adult rat subgranular zone. Using quantitative immunocytochemistry, we show that particularly cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitor p27Kip1 expression is significantly increased. In addition, 3 weeks of recovery after stress normalized the numbers of p27Kip1-expressing cells, consistent with the recovered adult cell proliferation in these animals. P27Kip1-positive cells do not overlap with GFAP-staining and only to a limited extent with Ki-67-expressing cells. Numbers of cyclin E- and cyclin D1-expressing cells did not change after chronic stress. These results indicate that chronic stress causes cycling cells in the adult hippocampus to arrest in G1, thereby providing more mechanistic insight in the stress-induced decrease in cell proliferation.
The pathological significance of intracellular Abeta accumulation in vivo is not yet fully understood. To address this, we have studied transgenic rats expressing Alzheimer's-related transgenes that accumulate Abeta intraneuronally in the cerebral and hippocampal cortices but do not develop extracellular amyloid plaques. In these rats, the presence of intraneuronal Abeta is sufficient to provoke up-regulation of the phosphorylated form of extracellular-regulated kinase (ERK) 2 and its enzymatic activity in the hippocampus while no changes were observed in the activity or phosphorylation status of other putative tau kinases such as p38, glycogen synthase kinase 3, and cycline-dependent kinase 5. The increase in active phospho-ERK2 was accompanied by increased levels of tau phosphorylation at S396 and S404 ERK2 sites and a decrease in the phosphorylation of the CREB kinase p90RSK. In a water maze paradigm, male transgenic rats displayed a mild spatial learning deficit relative to control littermates. Our results suggest that in the absence of plaques, intraneuronal accumulation of Abeta peptide correlates with the initial steps in the tau-phosphorylation cascade, alterations in ERK2 signaling and impairment of higher CNS functions in male rats.
The nicotinic cholinergic system influences cognition, anxiety, locomotion, and addiction by acting upon nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (nAChRs). To date, there are 12 known neuronal mammalian nAChR subunits leading to a rich pharmacological diversity that is difficult to attribute to specific subunits. We generated alpha7-beta2 nAChR double mutant mice by breeding to investigate the effect of a minimal number of nAChRs in the CNS. These mice have been used to determine the role these receptor subunits play in a variety of behaviors. A battery of behavioral tests was used to determine the effect of the mutation in anxiety, locomotor activity, startle response, pre-pulse inhibition, motor coordination and learning and memory. Mice lacking both the alpha7 and the beta2 nAChR subunits displayed impaired learning and memory performance in a passive avoidance test and showed enhanced motor performance on the rotarod.
The growth-associated protein (GAP)-43 is a major neuronal protein associated with axonal growth, neuronal plasticity and learning. The observation that only 5-10% of mice with a full GAP-43 gene deletion survive weaning suggests that basic neural functions are disturbed. Here we used a comprehensive test battery to characterise and quantify the motor and sensory function of surviving adult homozygous GAP-43 (-/-) mice as compared with GAP-43 (+/-) and wild-type animals. The test battery was comprised of motor, sensory, and reflex tests producing 25 measures of locomotion, as well as epicritic, auditory, olfactory and visual function. The analysis revealed significant impairments in muscle strength, limb coordination and balance in GAP-43 (-/-) mice. Furthermore, GAP-43 (-/-) animals were hyperactive and showed reduced anxiety as measured by open field and light dark tests. In sensory tests, GAP-43 (-/-) mice were tested for impaired tactile and labyrinthine function. Abnormal reflexes were found in the contact and vibrissa placing responses, and in the crossed extensor reflex. GAP-43 (+/-) animals showed only moderate abnormalities as compared with wild-type animals. We conclude that GAP-43 is necessary for the development and function of a variety of neuronal systems. The results also show that the comprehensive test battery used in the present study represents a sensitive approach to assess the functional integrity of ascending and descending pathways in genetically manipulated mice.
Administration of bacterial superantigen, such as staphylococcal enterotoxin B (SEB), induces in vivo stimulation of T cell proliferation and cytokine production such as interleukin-2 (IL-2). It has been previously reported that SEB administration induces fever, c-Fos expression in the brain, and hypothalamus-pituitary-adrenal axis activation, demonstrating that the brain is able to sense and respond to SEB. Previously it had been shown that immune functions can be behaviourally conditioned pairing a novel gustatory stimulus together with an immunomodulatory drug or an antigen. We designed an experimental protocol using Dark Agouti rats in which saccharin taste, as conditioned stimulus, was paired with an i.p. injection of SEB (2 mg/kg), as unconditioned stimulus. Six days later, when conditioned animals were re-exposed to the conditioned stimulus they displayed strong conditioned taste avoidance to the saccharin. More importantly, re-exposure to the conditioned stimulus significantly increased IL-2, interferon-gamma and corticosterone plasma levels, in comparison with conditioned animals which had not been re-exposed to saccharin taste. These results demonstrate a behavioural-immune-endocrine conditioned response using a superantigen as unconditioned stimulus. In addition, they illustrate the brain abilities to mimic the unconditioned effects of a superantigen by yet unknown mechanisms.
Exposure to training-related cues is known to reactivate associated memory and improves subsequent retention performance under various circumstances. The present studies investigated the neural basis of retrieval cue effects, by studying in two separate experiments, the involvement of the medial prefrontal cortex and of the dorsal striatum. Rats with lesions to the prelimbic-infralimbic cortex (PL-IL), to the anterior dorsal cingulate (ACd), and to the lateral and medial parts of the dorsal striatum (lDS and mDS) were first trained in a brightness discrimination avoidance task. One day later, rats were tested after being placed in the cueing box with either no training-related cue or with additional exposures to the light discriminative stimulus. None of the lesions affected the acquisition performance. During the retention test, control rats cued with the light in the box exhibited significantly better retention performance than those simply placed in the box, confirming our previous results. While mDS lesions did not modify effects of the retrieval cue, lDS as well as both PL-IL and ACd lesions blocked the facilitative effects of the discriminative stimulus. The present data indicate that ACd, PL-IL and lDS are involved in processes promoted by exposure to training cues, the nature of which are reviewed and discussed. This study in conjunction with previous ones suggests that retrieval cues activate several subcircuits mainly based on an amygdalo-prefrontal-striatum network. Activation of this network results in an improvement of the expression of the associated conditioned response, and may thus be viewed as increasing the efficacy of the retrieval processes.
It has been proposed that depression is associated with hippocampal morphological changes. The apical dendrite atrophy of hippocampal CA3 pyramidal neurons has been described in experimental models of depression. The aim of the present study was to determine which cytoskeletal components are involved in the morphological changes previously described in the hippocampus of depressed animals. The expression of different neuronal cytoskeletal markers was analyzed by immunohistochemistry in rats exposed to a learned helplessness paradigm, an experimental model of depression. Rats were trained with 60 inescapable foot shocks (0.6 mA/15 s) and escape latencies and failures were tested 4 days after training. Animals in which learned helplessness behavior persisted for 21 days were included in the depressed group. No foot shocks were delivered to control rats. Microtubule-associated protein 2 (MAP-2) and light (NFL; 68 kDa), medium (NFM; 160 kDa) and heavy (NFH; 200 kDa) neurofilament subunit immunostainings were analyzed employing morphometric parameters. In the depressed group, NFL immunostaining decreased 55% (P&lt;0.05) and 60% (P&lt;0.001) in CA3 and dentate gyrus, respectively. In the same areas, MAP-2, NFM and NFH immunostainings did not differ between depressed and control animals. Since NFL is present in the core of mature neurofilament, it is proposed that hippocampal depression-associated plastic alterations may be due to changes in the dynamics of the neurofilament assembly.
Brain alpha2-adrenergic receptors (alpha2-ARs) have been implicated in the regulation of anxiety, which is associated with stress. Environmental treatments during neonatal development could modulate the level of brain alpha2-AR expression and alter anxiety in adults, suggesting possible involvement of these receptors in early-life programming of anxiety state. The present study was undertaken to determine whether the reduction of the expression of A subtype of these receptors most abundant in the neonatal brain affects anxiety-related behavior in adulthood. We attenuated the expression of alpha2A-ARs during neonatal life by two different sequence specific approaches, antisense technology and RNA interference. Treatment of rats with the antisense oligodeoxynucleotide or short interfering RNA (siRNA) against alpha2A-ARs on the days 2-4 of their life, produced a marked acute decrease in the levels of both alpha2A-AR mRNA and [3H]RX821002 binding sites in the brainstem into which drugs were injected. The decrease of alpha2A-AR expression in the neonatal brainstem influenced the development of this receptor system in the brain regions as evidenced by the increased number of [3H]RX821002 binding sites in the hypothalamus of adult animals with both neonatal alpha2A-AR knockdown treatments; also in the frontal cortex of antisense-treated, and in the hippocampus of siRNA-treated adult rats. These adult animals also demonstrated a decreased anxiety in the elevated plus-maze as evidenced by an increased number of the open arm entries, greater proportion of time spent in the open arms, and more than a two-fold increase in the number of exploratory head dips. The results provide the first evidence that the reduction in the brain expression of a gene encoding for alpha2A-AR during neonatal life led to the long-term neurochemical and behavioral alterations. The data suggests that alterations in the expression of the receptor-specific gene during critical periods of brain development may be involved in early-life programming of anxiety-related behavior.
The intra dorsal raphe nucleus (DRN) administration of corticotropin releasing hormone (CRF) inhibits serotonergic (5-HT) activity in this structure, an effect blocked by antagonists selective for the type 1 CRF receptor (CRF1). The DRN has a high density of the type 2 receptor (CRF2), and so the present experiments explored the impact of CRF2 activation within the DRN on 5-HT function. The intra-DRN administration of the selective CRF2 agonist urocortin 2 (Ucn 2) dose dependently increased 5-HT efflux in the basolateral amygdala, a projection region of the DRN. Intra-DRN Ucn 2 also increased c-fos expression in labeled 5-HT neurons. Both of these effects of Ucn 2 were completely blocked by intra-DRN antisauvagine-30 (ASV-30), a relatively selective CRF2 antagonist. These data suggest that CRF1 and CRF2 activation within the DRN affect 5-HT neurons in opponent fashion. Implications of these results for understanding the behavioral effects of CRF and other CRF-like ligands are discussed.
We have recently proposed that the maintenance of hippocampal long-term potentiation (LTP) and depression depends on at least two required processes: induction of LTP must set (1) process-specific 'synaptic tags' which capture (2) process-unspecific plasticity-related proteins (PRPs), synthesized via a heterosynaptic interaction [Neurobiol Learn Mem 82 (2004) 12]. The 'tag' as well as the PRPs are characterized by a relatively short half-life of several minutes up to a few hours before they degrade most likely by processes such as dephosphorylation. The question now arose whether the 'tags' can also be reset in an activity-dependent manner, thus preventing the processing of PRPs with the result of transient short-lasting plasticity. Here we have investigated this topic during early-LTP and found that low-frequency stimulation shortly after early-LTP-induction (5 min) resets the 'tag' or the 'tag complex' of macromolecules preventing any lasting forms of LTP and thus, preventing the formation of a memory trace.
Dopamine neurons in the substantia nigra pars compacta often fire in an irregular, single spike mode in vivo, and a similar firing pattern can be observed in vitro when small conductance calcium-activated potassium channel blockers are applied to the bath. It is not clear whether the irregular firing is due to stochastic processes or nonlinear deterministic processes. A previous study [Neuroscience 104 (2001) 829] used nonlinear forecasting methods applied to a continuous function derived from the interspike interval (ISI) data from irregularly firing dopamine neurons to show that the predictability scaled exponentially with forecast horizon and was consistent with nonlinear deterministic chaos. However, we show here that the observed exponential scaling is also consistent with a stochastic process, because it did not differ significantly from that of shuffled surrogate data. On the other hand, nonlinear forecasting directly from the ISI data using the package TISEAN provided some evidence for nonlinear deterministic structure in four of five records obtained in vitro and in two of nine records obtained in vivo. Although we cannot rule out a role for nonlinear chaotic dynamics in structuring the firing pattern, we suggest an alternate hypothesis that includes a mechanism by which the firing pattern can become more variable in the presence of a constant level of background noise.
The firing patterns of dopaminergic neurons in vivo are strongly modulated by afferent input. The principal GABAergic inputs to the dopaminergic neurons of the substantia nigra originate from neurons of the neostriatum, globus pallidus and substantia nigra pars reticulata. It has previously been shown that the firing pattern of nigral dopaminergic neurons can be manipulated by pharmacologically induced excitation or inhibition of the globus pallidus with relatively little effect on firing rate. We used this technique to explore the relation between the firing pattern of dopaminergic neurons and extracellular dopamine levels in the neostriatum in vivo. Specifically, we tested whether an increase in burst firing in dopaminergic neurons produced by increased pallidal activity led to increased extracellular dopamine levels in the neostriatum. Single unit extracellular recording combined with simultaneous microdialysis was used to measure the firing rates and patterns of dopaminergic neurons and extracellular striatal dopamine levels, respectively, during bicuculline-induced excitation of the globus pallidus. Pallidal excitation resulted in a marked increase in burst firing in dopaminergic neurons along with only a slight increase in firing rate, but produced a significant elevation (approximately 45%) in neostriatal dopamine levels. These data suggest that afferent-induced burst firing in dopaminergic neurons leads to an increase in extracellular dopamine levels in the neostriatum when compared with less bursty patterns with similar overall firing rates.
S.c. painful inflammation leads to an increase in axonal transport of opioid receptors from dorsal root ganglia (DRG) toward the periphery, thus causing a higher receptor density and enhanced opioid analgesia at the injured site. To examine whether this increase is related to transcription, the mRNA of Delta- (DOR) and mu-opioid receptor (MOR) in lumbar DRG was quantified by real time Light Cycler polymerase chain reaction (LC-PCR), and correlated to ligand binding in DRG and sciatic nerve. In normal DRG, DOR mRNA was seven times less abundantly expressed than MOR mRNA. After induction of unilateral paw inflammation, mRNA content for DOR remained unchanged, but a bi-phasic upregulation for MOR mRNA with an early peak at 1-2 h and a late increase at 96 h was found in ipsilateral DRG. As no changes were observed in DRG of the non-inflamed side, this effect was apparently not systemically mediated. A significant increase in binding of the MOR ligand DAMGO was detected after 24 h in DRG, and after early and late ligation in the sciatic nerve, indicating an enhanced axonal transport of MOR in response to inflammation. The early increase in MOR mRNA could be completely prevented by local anesthetic blockade of neuronal conduction in sciatic nerve. These data suggest that mRNA of the two opioid receptors DOR and MOR is differentially regulated in DRG during peripheral painful inflammation. The apparently increased axonal transport of MOR in response to this inflammation is preceded by upregulated mRNA-transcription, which is dependent on neuronal electrical activity.
Mice lacking normal vestibular gravity reception show altered homeostatic, circadian and autonomic responses to hypergravity (+G) exposure. Using c-Fos as a marker of neuronal activation, the current study identifies CNS nuclei that may be critical for initiating and integrating such responses to changes in vestibular signaling. This experiment utilized the mutant C57BL/6JEi-het mouse (het), which lacks macular otoconia and thus gravity receptor function. Following 2 h of 2G (2x Earth's gravity) exposure (via centrifugation) the neuronal responses of the het mice were compared with wildtype mice similarly exposed to 2G, as well as het and wildtype 1G controls. Wildtype mice exposed to 2G demonstrated robust c-Fos expression in multiple autonomic, hypothalamic and limbic nuclei, including: the lateral septum, bed nucleus of the stria terminalis, amygdala, paraventricular hypothalamus, dorsomedial hypothalamus, arcuate, suprachiasmatic hypothalamus, intergeniculate leaflet, dorsal raphe, parabrachial and locus coeruleus. The het mice exposed to 2G demonstrated little to null c-Fos expression in these nuclei with a few exceptions and, in general, a similar pattern of c-Fos to 1G controls. Data from this study further support the existence of a complex and extensive influence of the neurovestibular system on homeostatic, circadian and possibly autonomic regulatory systems.
The role of a transmembrane protein, integrin alpha2beta1, to modulate the neural responses of cutaneous mechanoreceptors to mechanical indentation was examined using an isolated skin-nerve preparation in a rat model. Skin and its intact innervation were harvested from the medial thigh of the hindlimb and placed in a dish containing synthetic interstitial fluid. Using a standard teased nerve preparation, the neural responses of single slowly or rapidly adapting mechanoreceptors (SA or RA, respectively) were identified and the afferents categorized according to standard protocols (i.e. response to constant stimuli). The most sensitive spot of a mechanoreceptor's receptive field was identified and then stimulated using controlled compressive stress (constant or dynamic loads between threshold and saturation load for SAs and RAs, respectively). Loads were applied before, during, and after passive diffusion into the skin of a function-blocking anti-integrin alpha2 monoclonal antibody (FBmAb) or one of two types of control antibodies (immunoglobulin G or a FBmAb conjugated with a secondary antibody). The sensitivities of both SA and RA mechanoreceptors were profoundly reduced in the presence of the FBmAb, while not changing the waveforms of their action potentials or their adaptation properties. Both control antibodies had no significant effect on mechanoreceptors' sensitivities. Following removal of the FBmAb, the effects in some neurons were partially reversible. Taken together, the data from this study support the hypothesis that integrin alpha2beta1 plays a significant role in modulating mechanoreceptive response to compressive indentation.
Exposure of the gastric mucosa to back-diffusing concentrations of HCl (0.25 M, pH 0.51) stimulates vagal afferent input to the brainstem. Here we have examined whether pretreatment of rats with the proinflammatory cytokines interleukin-1beta and tumor necrosis factor-alpha causes sensitization of vagal afferent pathways to HCl. Rats were pretreated i.p. with interleukin-1beta, tumor necrosis factor-alpha (10 microg/kg) or their vehicle (sterile saline) 24, 48 and 96 h before intragastric administration of HCl (0.25 M, 1 ml/100 g). Activation of neurons in the nucleus tractus solitarii was visualized by c-Fos immunohistochemistry 2 h after the HCl challenge. I.p. administration of interleukin-1beta and tumor necrosis factor-alpha alone induced c-Fos in the brainstem, an effect that was gone after 24 h. At this time, however, the effect of HCl to cause expression of c-Fos in the nucleus tractus solitarii was significantly enhanced by pretreatment with interleukin-1beta and tumor necrosis factor-alpha. The sensitizing effect of i.p.-administered interleukin-1beta was sustained for more than 48 h and prevented by the interleukin-1 receptor antagonist anakinra. Intracisternal administration of interleukin-1beta and tumor necrosis factor-alpha (100 ng) failed to amplify the HCl-evoked expression of c-Fos in the brainstem. These results show that peripheral administration of the proinflammatory cytokines interleukin-1beta and tumor necrosis factor-alpha induces prolonged sensitization of vagal afferent pathways to gastric HCl challenge. This effect seems to arise from a peripheral action on vagal afferents and may be of relevance to gastric chemonociception.
The central projections of the rat superior sagittal sinus (SSS) sensory innervation were studied by transganglionic tract tracing techniques. Cholera toxin subunit b (CTb) or wheat germ agglutinin-horseradish peroxidase conjugate (WGA-HRP) was applied on the overlying dura of the SSS and labeled terminations in the brainstem and cervical spinal cord were examined under the light microscope. Labeled cell bodies were seen bilaterally in the trigeminal ganglia and in the C2 dorsal root ganglia following both CTb and WGA-HRP applications. In the brainstem, labeled terminations were mainly found in the caudal and interpolar parts of the spinal trigeminal nucleus. In the CTb cases, terminations were also found in the dorsolateral part of the cuneate nucleus. In the spinal cord, labeled terminations were primarily located in the most ventrolateral part of the C1-C3 spinal dorsal horns on both sides. WGA-HRP labeled terminations were mainly located in laminae I and II, whereas CTb-labeled terminations located in laminae III and IV. These results indicate that the sensory information from the SSS is transmitted through both trigeminal and cervical spinal nerve branches to a primary sensory nervous center that extends from the C3 dorsal horn until to the interpolar part of the spinal trigeminal nucleus.
The piriform cortex (PC) is the largest region of the mammalian olfactory cortex with strong connections to limbic structures, including the amygdala, hippocampus, and entorhinal cortex. Various previous studies in rodents suggest that the PC might be very important in the development and maintenance of limbic kindling, i.e. a widely used model of temporal lobe epilepsy. GABAergic inhibition in the transition zone between the anterior and posterior PC, termed here central PC, seems to be particularly involved in the processes leading to progression of kindled seizures. This prompted us to study whether elevation of GABA levels in this subregion of the PC by bilateral microinjection of vigabatrin is capable of suppressing amygdala kindling. Rats were stimulated once daily until fully kindled (stage 5) seizures had developed. Vigabatrin (10 microg) was injected 24 h before the first stimulation as well as 6 h before the 5th and 10th stimulation, which approximately doubled the number of stimulations required for kindling development compared with controls. This marked retardation of kindling acquisition was predominantly due to a significant inhibition of the progression from stage 1 to stage 2 and stage 3 to stage 4 seizures, demonstrating that microinjection of vigabatrin into the central PC markedly inhibits the progression and secondary generalization of focal seizures emanating from the amygdala.
There is little evidence to date to indicate if mesoaccumbens dopamine function at the neurochemical level is altered during early abstinence from chronic i.v. nicotine self-administration. Thus, a quantitative microdialysis (no-net-flux) approach was used to measure basal extracellular concentrations and extraction fractions of dopamine in the nucleus accumbens (ACB) of rats that self-administered nicotine i.v. for 25 days, as well as in rats serving as yoked comparison groups (yoked nicotine and yoked saline). After 24-48 h of the final self-administration session, there was a significant reduction in basal extracellular dopamine levels in the ACB of the self-administration group compared with the yoked saline group (1.35+/-0.15 nM versus 3.70+/-0.28 nM). The basal extracellular dopamine levels in the yoked nicotine group (1.46+/-0.20 nM) were not significantly different compared with the nicotine self-administration group. The in vivo extraction fraction of dopamine, an indirect measure of dopamine uptake, was significantly increased in the nicotine self-administration (86%) and yoked nicotine (91%) groups compared with the yoked saline group (77%). In addition, a marked reduction in the elevation of extracellular dopamine levels in the ACB occurred after a nicotine challenge as measured by conventional microdialysis in the self-administration (112% of basal) and yoked nicotine (121% of basal) groups as compared with a yoked saline (154% of basal) group. The reduced basal ACB dopamine levels in the nicotine groups during early abstinence appears to be due to increased clearance, suggesting increased dopamine uptake is occurring as a result of the chronic nicotine treatment. The reduced elevation of extracellular dopamine levels in the ACB upon nicotine challenge suggests a functional desensitization or downregulation phenomenon involving acetylcholine receptors (nicotinic nAChRs). Overall, these results provide clear evidence for a neuroadaptive change that alters dopamine transmission in the ACB during abstinence from chronic i.v. nicotine exposure.
In the brain, utrophin is present in the choroid plexus epithelium and vascular endothelial cells, whereas the short C-terminal isoform of dystrophin (Dp71) is localized in the glial end-feet surrounding blood vessels. Both proteins serve as anchors for the so-called dystrophin-associated protein complex (DPC), composed of isoforms of syntrophin, dystroglycan and dystrobrevin. Numerous transporter proteins and channels have a polarized distribution in vascular endothelial cells and in glial end-feet, suggesting an association with the DPC. We investigated the composition and localization of the DPC in dependence on the anchoring proteins in mice lacking either utrophin (utrophin0/0) or dystrophin isoforms (mdx3Cv). Three distinct complexes were identified: (i) associated with utrophin in the basolateral membrane of the choroid plexus epithelium, (ii) associated with utrophin in vascular endothelial cells, and (iii) associated with Dp71 in the glial end-feet. Upon ablation of utrophin or Dp71, the corresponding DPCs were disrupted and no compensation of the missing protein by its homologue was observed. Association of the water channel aquaporin 4 with the glial DPC likewise was disrupted in mdx3Cv mice. These results demonstrate the essential role of utrophin and Dp71 for assembly of the DPC and suggest that these proteins contribute to the proper functioning of the cerebrospinal fluid and blood-brain barriers.
Survival rates have increased dramatically for very premature (gestational week 24-28) infants. However, many of these infants grow up to have profound cognitive, motor and behavioral impairments due to brain damage. We have developed a novel model of prenatal infant gray matter injury. During the neonatal period, GABA is an excitatory neurotransmitter. GABA(A) receptor activation results in chloride efflux and membrane depolarization sufficient to open L-type voltage sensitive calcium channels. Our model involves excessive GABA(A) receptor activation in the newborn rat, with damage due to the resultant excessive calcium influx, not GABA(A) receptor activation itself. A common feature among numerous insult pathologies in the neonatal brain is an elevation in the intracellular levels of calcium. The goals of the present study were: 1) to document the time course and amount of cell death (both apoptotic and necrotic), and 2) to investigate the effect of GABA(A) receptor activation on the time course and expression of three cell death-related proteins (caspase-9, bax and bcl-2) in our model of prenatal brain injury. The magnitude of cell death, using TdT-mediated dUTP nick end labeling and Cresyl Violet to quantify the incidence of apoptotic and necrotic cells, was region dependent (CA1&gt;CA2/3&gt;dentate gyrus) and persisted for at least 5 days following insult. There was a relative increase in the amount of bax to bcl-2 protein, and increased protein levels of caspase-9, indicative of cell death. These findings are consistent with mechanisms of cell death seen in other types of early brain insult, and highlight a conserved cascade of events leading to cell death in the developing brain.
Evidence now suggests that compromised prenatal brain development may increase the risk for the manifestation of neurological disorders such as schizophrenia. We present a guinea-pig model which mimics a condition of human pregnancy, namely, chronic placental insufficiency. Previously we reported that at term there are changes in the brains of these offspring which are relevant to changes in patients with schizophrenia. The aim of this study was to examine whether deficits in brain structure persist to adolescence and young adulthood (8-12 weeks) and have implications for behavioral function. Reduced uteroplacental blood flow was induced via unilateral ligation of the uterine artery at mid-gestation. The brain was examined in control and prenatally compromised (PC) animals 8 weeks after birth using morphometric and immunohistochemical markers. In a separate cohort of animals, prepulse inhibition (PPI) of the acoustic startle response was assessed at 4, 8 and 12 weeks of age. Brain neurochemistry was examined by determining the concentrations of dopamine and its metabolite, dihydroxyphenylacetic acid (DOPAC), at 12 weeks using high performance liquid chromatography. In PC animals compared with controls there was a reduction in brain weight, persistent enlargement of the lateral ventricles, a reduction in the volume of the basal ganglia and septal region and no evidence of gliosis. No differences were observed in concentration of catecholamines in any brain region examined. At 12, but not 4 or 8, weeks of age, PPI was reduced in PC animals compared with controls. The findings of reduced brain weight, ventriculomegaly, reduced basal ganglia volume and absence of astrogliosis in the PC guinea-pig brain at adolescence parallel some of the changes observed in patients with schizophrenia. The impairment of PPI is comparable to sensorimotor gating deficits observed in patients with schizophrenia. These results indicate that adverse prenatal conditions lead to long-term alterations in brain structure and function which resemble alterations seen in patients with schizophrenia and therefore support the early neurodevelopmental hypothesis of schizophrenia.
Immediate early gene expression in the CNS is induced by sensory stimulation and seems to be involved in long-term synaptic plasticity. We have used an immunohistochemical method to detect the nerve growth factor-induced gene A (NGFI-A) protein expression in the superficial layers of the rat superior colliculus during postnatal development. Our goal was to correlate the expression of this candidate plasticity protein with developmental events, especially the activity-dependent refinement of the retinocollicular and corticocollicular pathways. We have also investigated the N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA)-receptor dependence of the NGFI-A expression. Animals of various postnatal ages were used. Postnatal day (P) 12 and older animals were submitted to a protocol of dark adaptation followed by light stimulation. NGFI-A expression was never observed during the first 2 postnatal weeks. The first stained cells were observed at P15, 2 days after eye opening (P13). The highest number of stained cells was observed at the end of the third postnatal week (P22). Adult-like level of expression was reached at P30, since at this age, the number of stained cells was comparable to that found in adult rats (P90). Both P22 animals submitted to an acute treatment with MK-801 (i.p. injection) and adult animals submitted to chronic intracranial infusion of a MK-801 presented a clear decrease in the NGFI-A expression in response to light stimulation. These results suggest that the NGFI-A expression is dependent on the NMDA receptor activation, and the observed pattern of expression is in close agreement with previous descriptions of the changes in the NMDA receptor-mediated visual activity in the developing rat superior colliculus (SC). Our results suggest that the plasticity-related NGFI-A protein might play a role in the developmental plasticity of the superficial layers of the rat SC after eye opening.
Emotional self-regulation plays a pivotal role in socialization and moral development. This capacity critically depends on the development of the prefrontal cortex (PFC). The present functional magnetic resonance imaging study was conducted to identify the neural circuitry underlying voluntary self-regulation of sadness in healthy girls (aged 8-10). A 2 x 2 factorial design was implemented with Emotion (No Sadness vs. Sadness) and Regulation (No Reappraisal vs. Reappraisal) as factors. In the No Reappraisal conditions, subjects were instructed to react normally to neutral and sad film excerpts whereas in the Reappraisal conditions, subjects were asked to voluntarily suppress any emotional reaction in response to comparable stimuli. A significant interaction of the Emotion and Regulation factors revealed that reappraisal of sad film excerpts was associated with bilateral activations of the lateral PFC (LPFC; Brodmann areas [BA] 9 and 10), orbitofrontal cortex (OFC; BA 11), and medial PFC (BA 9 and 10). Significant loci of activations were also detected in the right anterior cingulate cortex (BA 24/32) and right ventrolateral PFC (BA 47). In an identical study previously conducted by our group in adult women [Biol Psychiatry 53 (2003) 502], reappraisal of sad film excerpts was associated with activation of the right OFC (BA 11) and right LPFC (BA 9). The greater number of prefrontal loci of activation found in children relative to adults during voluntary self-regulation of sadness may be related to the immaturity of the prefronto-limbic connections in childhood.
Multidrug resistance proteins (MRPs, symbol ABCC) are membrane glycoproteins that mediate the ATP-dependent export of organic anions, including cytotoxic and antiviral drugs, from cells. To identify MRP family members possibly involved in the intrinsic resistance of human brain to cytotoxic and antiviral drugs, we analyzed the expression and localization of MRP1-MRP6 in rapidly frozen perilesional samples of several regions of adult human brain obtained during neurosurgery. Quantitative polymerase chain reaction analysis showed expression of MRP1, MRP2, MRP3, MRP4, and MRP5 mRNA, whereas MRP6 mRNA was below detectability. However, immunofluorescence microscopy of cryosections from human brain showed no reactivity for the MRP2 or MRP3 proteins. The proteins MRP1, MRP4, and MRP5 were clearly localized by confocal laser scanning microscopy to the luminal side of brain capillary endothelial cells. The MRP4 and MRP5 proteins were also detected in astrocytes of the subcortical white matter. Notably, MRP5 protein was present in pyramidal neurons. MRP proteins may, thus, contribute to the cellular efflux of endogenous anionic glutathione or glucuronate conjugates (substrates for MRP1), cyclic nucleotides (substrates for MRP4 and MRP5), or glutathione (co-substrate for MRP1 and MRP4); in addition, they may play an important role in the resistance of the brain to several cytotoxic and antiviral drugs.
The relationship between running, glial cell activation and pro-inflammatory cytokines was studied in the context of neuroprotection against ischemic stroke induced by middle cerebral artery occlusion (MCAO). This was investigated in four groups of rats, namely, (1) nonrunner, (2) runner after 12 weeks of treadmill running, (3) nonrunner with MCAO and (4) runner with MCAO. The horizontal diagonal band of Broca (HDB) in the septum was scrutinized for qualitative cum quantitative changes in the microglia and astrocytes. Reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction and immunoblot work were carried out in the forebrain homogenate to determine, respectively, the gene and protein expression of several pro-inflammatory cytokines. Our results indicated that the runner exhibited less immunoreactivity and reduced numbers of glial cells within the HDB compared with the nonrunner. Interestingly, the mRNA and protein levels of tumor necrosis factor-alpha, interleukin (IL)-1beta, IL-6 and interferon-gamma, were significantly downregulated in the runner. Our data also suggest albeit with some inconsistency that the runner/MCAO rats had benefited from running. These observations suggest that running can result in changes to the microenvironment, in which the microglia and astrocytes exist in a state of quiescence concomitant with a reduced expression of pro-inflammatory cytokines, that may lead to beneficial effects seen in ischemic stroke induced by MCAO.
Neurodegeneration in fetal development of Down syndrome (DS) patients is proposed to result in apparent neuropathological abnormalities and to contribute to the phenotypic characteristics of mental retardation and premature development of Alzheimer disease. In order to identify the aberrant and specific genes involved in the early differentiation of DS neurons, we have utilized an in vitro neuronal differentiation system of mouse ES cells containing a single human chromosome 21 (TT2F/hChr21) with TT2F parental ES cells as a control. The paired protein extracts from TT2F and TT2F/hChr21 cells at several stages of neuronal differentiation were subjected to two-dimensional polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis protein separation followed by matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization-time of flight mass spectrometry to identify the proteins differentially expressed between TT2F and TT2F/hChr21 cells. We provide here a novel set of specific gene products altered in early differentiating DS neuronal cells, which differs from that identified in adult or fetal brain with DS. The aberrant protein expression in early differentiating neurons, due to the hChr21 gene dosage effects or chromosomal imbalance, may affect neuronal outgrowth, proliferation and differentiation, producing developmental abnormalities in neural patterning, which eventually leads to formation of a suboptimal functioning neuronal network in DS.
We have investigated changes in the extracellular matrix of the hippocampus associated with the early progression of epileptogenesis in a murine model of temporal lobe epilepsy using immunohistochemistry. In the first week following intrahippocampal injection of the glutamate agonist, domoate, there is a latent period at the end of which begins a sequential upregulation of extracellular matrix (ECM) molecules in the granule cell layer of the dentate gyrus, beginning with neurocan and tenascin-C. This expression precedes the characteristic dispersion of the granule cell layer which is evident at 14 days post-injection when the first recurrent seizures can be recorded. At this stage, an upregulation of the chondroitin sulfate proteoglycan, phosphacan, the DSD-1 chondroitin sulfate motif, and the HNK-1 oligosaccharide are also observed. The expression of these molecules is localized differentially in the epileptogenic dentate gyrus, especially in the sprouting molecular layer, where a strong upregulation of phosphacan, tenascin-C, and HNK-1 is observed but there is no expression of the proteoglycan, neurocan, nor of the DSD-1 chondroitin sulfate motif. Hence, it appears that granule cell layer dispersion is accompanied by a general increase in the ECM, while mossy fiber sprouting in the molecular layer is associated with a more restricted repertoire. In contrast to these changes, the expression of the ECM glycoproteins, laminin and fibronectin, both of which are frequently implicated in tissue remodelling events, showed no changes associated with either granule cell dispersion or mossy fiber sprouting, indicating that the epileptogenic plasticity of the hippocampus is accompanied by ECM interactions that are characteristic of the CNS.
Natural variations in maternal care in the rat influence the development of neuronal systems that regulate endocrine and behavioral responses to stress. Thus, as adults, rats that received higher levels of maternal licking/grooming (LG) in infancy are less 'fearful' in response to novelty, compared with adult offspring of Low LG mothers. The present study examined the influence of maternal care on behavioral and neuronal responses to a more specific, localizable form of threat using an electrified probe in the shock-probe burying test. Even under these conditions, adult offspring of High LG mothers displayed lower levels of fear reactivity (i.e. less shock-induced freezing and probe burying) throughout the test than did offspring of Low LG mothers. These differences in fearfulness were associated with differential patterns of cFos immunoreactivity (cFos-IR), 120 min following test exposure. Relative to control rats exposed to a non-electrified probe, cFos-IR was increased in the offspring of High LG mothers exposed to an electrified probe in the dentate gyrus, ventral subiculum, lateral and medial septum, nucleus accumbens and the dorsal periaqueductal gray. Shock-exposed offspring of Low LG dams displayed a very different pattern of neuronal activation characterized by both increases (area CA1 of the ventral hippocampus and the inferior colliculus) and decreases (paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus and the ventrolateral periaqueductal gray) in cFos-IR compared with the no-shock controls. Together these results suggest that maternal care serves to 'program' neuronal circuits that modulate fear-related responding in the rat resulting in qualitatively different neuronal responses to stress.
Evoked cortical field potentials are widely used in neurophysiological studies into cortical functioning, but insight in the underlying neural mechanisms is severely hampered by ambiguities in the interpretation of the field potentials. The present study aimed at identifying the precise relationships between the primary evoked cortical field potential (the positive-negative [P1-N1]response) and the temporal and spatial sequence in which different local cortical micro-circuits are recruited. We electrically stimulated the median nerve and recorded field potentials using a 12-channel depth probe in somatosensory cortex of ketamine anesthetized rats. Current source density analysis was used and a grand average was constructed based on all individual animals taking into account individual differences in cortical layering. Manipulation of stimulus strength, selective averaging of single trial responses, and double-pulse stimulation, were used to help disentangle overlapping dipoles and to determine the sequence of neuronal events. We discriminated three phases in the generation of the P1-N1 wave. In the first phase, specific thalamic afferents depolarize both layer III and layer V pyramidal cells. In the second phase, superficial pyramidal cells are depolarized via supragranular intracortical projections. In the third phase, population spikes are generated in layer Vb pyramidal cells, associated with a distinct fast (approximately 1 ms) sink/source configuration. Axon-collaterals of layer Vb pyramidal cells produce an enhanced activation of the supragranular pyramidal cells in layer I-II, which generates N1.
Bidirectional modifications in synaptic efficacy are central components in recent models of cortical learning and memory, and we previously demonstrated both long-term synaptic potentiation (LTP) and long-term synaptic depression (LTD) in the neocortex of the unanaesthetized adult rat. Here, we have examined the effects of N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor (NMDAR) blockade on the induction of LTD, LTP, and depotentiation of field potentials evoked in sensorimotor cortex by stimulation of the white matter in the adult, freely moving rat. High frequency (300 Hz) stimulation (HFS) was used to induce LTP and prolonged, low-frequency (1 Hz) stimulation was used to induce either depotentiation or LTD. LTD was expressed as a reduction in the amplitude of the short and long-latency field potential components, while depotentiation was expressed as a decrease in the amplitude of a previously enhanced late component. Under NMDAR blockade, HFS failed to induce LTP and instead produced a depression effect similar to LTD. Following washout of the drug, HFS induced a normal LTP effect. Unlike LTP, LTD and depotentiation were found to be NMDAR-independent in the neocortex of the freely moving rat.
Consolidation is a process through which labile memories are made persistent [Science 287 (2000) 248]; [Annu Rev Psychol 55 (2004) 51]. When retrieved, a consolidated memory is rendered labile again and undergoes reconsolidation [Learn Mem 7 (2000) 73]; [Trends Neurosci 26 (2003) 65]). Reconsolidation thus offers the opportunity to manipulate memory after it is formed, and may therefore provide a means of treating intrusive memories associated with post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD). Reconsolidation is most usually studied using protein synthesis inhibitors, which is not practical in humans. However, the beta adrenergic receptor antagonist propranolol impairs consolidation of declarative memory in humans [Science 287 (2000) 248]; [Nature 371 (1994) 702] and consolidation and reconsolidation of inhibitory avoidance learning in rats [Brain Res 368 (1986) 125]; [J Neurosci 19 (1999) 6623]. Here, we show that systemic or intra-amygdala infused propranolol blocks reconsolidation but not consolidation. If the effects on reconsolidation are verified in humans, the results would suggest the possibility that propranolol after memory retrieval might be an effective way of treatment of intrusive memories in PTSD. That the systemic effects of propranolol on reconsolidation are achieved via an action in the amygdala is especially important in light of the fact that PTSD involves alterations in the amygdala [Arch Gen Psychiatry 53 (1996) 380].
Ample neuropsychological evidence supports the role of rhinal cortices in memory. The perirhinal cortex (PRC) represents one of the main conduits for the bi-directional flow of information between the entorhinal-hippocampal network and the cortical mantle, a process essential in memory formation. However, despite anatomical evidence for a robust reciprocal connectivity between the perirhinal and entorhinal cortices, neurophysiological understanding of this circuitry is lacking. We now present the results of a series of electrophysiological experiments in rats that demonstrate robust synaptic activation patterns of the perirhinal-entorhinal inter-connections. First, using silicon multi-electrode arrays placed under visual guidance in vivo we performed current source density (CSD) analysis of lateral entorhinal cortex (LEC) responses to PRC stimulation, which demonstrated a current sink in layers II-III of the LEC with a latency consistent with monosynaptic activation. To further substantiate and extend this conclusion, we developed a PRC-LEC slice preparation where CSD analysis also revealed a current sink in superficial LEC layers in response to PRC stimulation. Importantly, intracellular recording of superficial LEC layer neurons confirmed that they receive a major monosynaptic excitatory input from the PRC. Finally, CSD analysis of the LEC to PRC projection in vivo also allowed us to document robust feedback synaptic activation of PRC neurons to deep LEC layer activation. We conclude that a clear bidirectional pattern of synaptic interactions exists between the PRC and LEC that would support a dynamic flow of information subserving memory function in the temporal lobe.
Hippocampal functions, e.g. synaptic plasticity and hippocampal-dependent behavior, are influenced by the circulating levels of ovarian steroids in adult, female rats. The mechanisms underlying this estradiol-dependent modulation, however, are poorly understood. One possibility is that estradiol alters N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA)-receptor functioning in the hippocampus. Here, using the in vitro hippocampal slice preparation, we evaluate estradiol-dependent changes in the NMDA receptor- and the alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionic acid receptor-mediated components of excitatory postsynaptic potentials (EPSPs) evoked in CA1 by Schaffer collateral test stimulation. Using established experimental conditions [J Neurosci 17 (1997) 1848], we replicate the observation that estradiol pretreatment of ovariectomized rats increases a pharmacologically isolated NMDA receptor-mediated EPSP evoked by Schaffer collateral stimulation. However, using different conditions that optimize study of this evoked response, the estradiol-dependent increase in the monosynaptic NMDA receptor-mediated EPSP is eliminated. Low-intensity test stimulation of the Schaffer collaterals in this optimized medium reveals a novel, late NMDA receptor-mediated EPSP in CA1 from estradiol-pretreated rats. The mechanism(s) underlying this estradiol-dependent increase in a late, NMDA receptor-mediated EPSP is not known, but enhanced CA1-CA1 excitatory circuitry and glutamate spillover could contribute to this response. We conclude that estradiol pretreatment enhances NMDA receptor function in the female hippocampus by increasing not the monosynaptic, but rather a late NMDA receptor-mediated response. Variations in the magnitude of this late response may well contribute to ovarian steroid-dependent modulation of hippocampal synaptic plasticity.
Both enkephalin and dynorphin containing fibers are in close proximity to neurons in the nucleus ambiguus, including cardiac vagal neurons. Microinjection of Delta and kappa agonists into the nucleus ambiguus have been shown to evoke decreases in heart rate. Yet little is known about the mechanisms by which Delta and kappa opioid receptors alter the activity of cardiac vagal neurons. This study tests whether kappa and Delta opioid agonists can alter the activity of cardiac vagal neurons by modulating likely opioid targets including voltage gated calcium currents, and both glycinergic and GABA) neurotransmission to cardiac vagal neurons. Cardiac vagal neurons were identified in vitro by a fluorescent tracer and studied using patch clamp techniques. Neither the kappa agonist spiradoline or the Delta agonist [D-Pen(2), D-Pen(5)]enkephalin (DPDPE) modulated the voltage gated calcium currents in cardiac vagal neurons. DPDPE also did not alter either glycinergic or GABAergic synaptic neurotransmission. Spiradoline did not change GABAergic synaptic inputs, but did significantly inhibit glycinergic synaptic inputs to cardiac vagal neurons. At a concentration of 1 microM, spiradoline inhibited the amplitude of glycinergic events, and at a concentration of 5 microM, spiradoline inhibited both glycinergic amplitude and frequency. Spiradoline also inhibited both the amplitude and frequency of glycinergic miniature inhibitory post-synaptic currents, indicating kappa agonists likely act at both presynaptic and postsynaptic sites to inhibit glycinergic neurotransmission to cardiac vagal neurons.
Opioid peptides have demonstrated modulatory effects on the vestibular afferent discharge and are putative vestibular efferent neuromodulators. The distribution of their receptors in the mammalian vestibular epithelia is not known. We used reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR), in situ hybridization, Western blots and immunohistochemistry to study the expression of mu opioid receptor (MOR) in the Scarpa's ganglia and cristae ampullares of rats. MOR transcript was only detected in the somata of the vestibular afferent neurons. MOR-like immunoreactivity was observed in the somata of vestibular afferents and in nerve terminals in the cristae ampullares epithelia both in the center and peripheral regions. Double labeling of cristae sections with the MOR1 antibody in combination with antibodies against calretinin (a marker for vestibular afferents terminating in calices) and peripherin (a marker for afferents terminating in boutons), respectively showed that MOR1 immunoreactivity was in calyx, dimorphic and bouton vestibular afferents. MOR immunoreactivity was not detected in vestibular efferent fibers identified with choline acetyltransferase immunohistochemistry. These results indicate that MOR may mediate effects of vestibular efferents on afferents.
We examined the properties of a proton sensitive current in acutely dissociated, capsaicin insensitive nociceptive neurons from rat dorsal root ganglion (DRG). The current had features consistent with K(+) leak currents of the KCNK family (TASK-1, TASK-3; TWIK-related acid sensing K(+)). Acidity and alkalinity induced inward and outward shifts in the holding current accompanied by increased and decreased whole cell resistance consistent with a K(+) current. We used alkaline solutions to open the channel and examine its properties. Alkaline evoked currents (AECs; pH 10.0-10.75), reversed near the K(+) equilibrium potential (-74 mV), and were suppressed 85% in 0 mM K(+). AECs were insensitive to Cs(+) (1 mM) and anandamide (1 microM), but blocked by Ba(++) (1 mM), quinidine (100 microM) or Ruthenium Red (10 microM). This pharmacology was identical to that of rat TASK-3 and inconsistent with that of TASK-1 or TASK-2. The TASK-like AEC was not modulated by PKA (forskolin, kappa opioid agonists U69593 and GR8696, somatostatin) but was inhibited by PKC activator phorbol-12-myristate-13 acetate (PMA). When acidic solutions were used, we were able to isolate a Ba(++) and Ruthenium Red insensitive current that was inhibited by Zn(++). This Zn(++) sensitive component of the proton sensitive current was consistent with TASK-1. In current clamp studies, acidic pH produced sensitive changes in resting membrane potential but did not influence excitability (pH 7.2-6.8). In contrast, Zn(++) produced substantial changes in excitability at physiological pH. Alkaline solutions produced hyperpolarization followed by proportional burst discharges (pH 10.75-11.5) and increased excitability (at pH 7.4). In conclusion, multiple TASK currents were present in a DRG nociceptor and differentially contributed to distinct discharge mechanisms.
Testosterone modulates seizure susceptibility in animals and humans, but the underlying mechanisms are obscure. Here, testosterone modulation of seizure susceptibility is hypothesized to occur through its conversion to neurosteroids with &quot;anticonvulsant&quot; and &quot;proconvulsant&quot; actions, and hence the net effect of testosterone on neural excitability and seizure activity depends on the levels of distinct testosterone metabolites. Testosterone undergoes metabolism to neurosteroids via two distinct pathways. Aromatization of the A-ring converts testosterone into 17beta-estradiol. Reduction of testosterone by 5alpha-reductase generates 5alpha-dihydrotestosterone (DHT), which is then converted to 3alpha-androstanediol (3alpha-Diol), a powerful GABA(A) receptor-modulating neurosteroid with anticonvulsant properties. Systemic doses of testosterone decreased seizure threshold in rats and increased the incidence and severity of pentylenetetrazol (PTZ)-induced seizures in mice. These proconvulsant effects of testosterone were associated with increases in plasma 17beta-estradiol and 3alpha-Diol concentrations. Pretreatment with letrozole, an aromatase inhibitor that blocks the conversion of testosterone to 17beta-estradiol, significantly inhibited testosterone-induced exacerbation of seizures. The 5alpha-reductase inhibitor finasteride significantly reduced 3alpha-Diol levels and also blocked letrozole's ability to inhibit the proconvulsant effects of testosterone. The 5alpha-reduced metabolites of testosterone, DHT and 3alpha-Diol, had powerful anticonvulsant activity in the PTZ test. Letrozole or finasteride had no effect on seizure protection by DHT and 3alpha-Diol, but indomethacin partially reversed DHT actions. 3alpha-Diol but not 3beta-androstanediol, a GABA(A) receptor-inactive stereoisomer, suppressed 4-aminopyridine-induced spontaneous epileptiform bursting in rat hippocampal slices. Thus, testosterone-derived neurosteroids 3alpha-Diol and 17beta-estradiol could contribute to the net cellular actions of testosterone on neural excitability and seizure susceptibility.
Pretreatment with 17beta-estradiol attenuates ischemia-induced hippocampal cornu ammonis 1 (CA1) neuronal death. We assessed whether this is mediated through prevention of hyperthermia that normally follows ischemia in gerbils. Male gerbils were given sustained-released 17beta-estradiol pellets or sham operation. Later, a guide cannula was implanted for brain temperature measurement and some were implanted with core temperature telemetry probes. Gerbils were subjected to either 5 min bilateral carotid artery occlusion or sham procedures 2 weeks after pellet surgery. Brain temperature was normothermic during surgery in all cases. In experiment 1, only core temperature was measured afterward in untreated and estrogen-treated gerbils. In experiment 2, postischemic core temperature was measured in untreated and two estrogen-treated ischemic groups, one of which had their postischemic temperature increased, via infrared lamp, to mimic the untreated group. Habituation was assessed on days 5 and 6. Hyperthermia, like that which occurs spontaneously, was forced on untreated and estrogen-treated ischemic animals in the third experiment, where brain temperature was measured. CA1 cell counts were assessed after a 7-day survival. A fourth experiment measured brain and core temperature simultaneously in normal gerbils during heating with an infrared lamp. Estrogen did not affect core temperature of non-ischemic gerbils whereas spontaneous postischemic hyperthermia was blocked. Estrogen reduced cell death and provided behavioral protection when gerbils regulated their own core temperature, but not when core hyperthermia was enforced. Conversely, estrogen reduced cell death in gerbils that had their brain temperature elevated. Experiment 4 showed that the brain becomes overheated (by approximately 1 degree C) when core temperature is elevated. Accordingly, estrogen likely failed to reduce CA1 injury in experiment 2, when core hyperthermia was enforced, because of overheating the brain. In conclusion, estrogen reduces CA1 cell death by mechanisms other than preventing hyperthermia. Our results also suggest that future studies regulate brain instead of body temperature.
In the cerebral cortex, the voltage-gated potassium channel, Kv3.1b, a splicing variant of Kv3.1, has been associated with fast-firing interneurons. Here, we report strong expression of Kv3.1b-protein and mRNA in both Betz and Meynert pyramidal cells of the monkey, as shown by immunohistochemistry and in situ hybridization. Strong expression also occurs in large pyramidal neurons in layer 5 of several cortical areas. In addition, most of these Betz and layer 5 pyramids, and about 10% of the labeled Meynert cells weakly co-expressed the calcium binding protein parvalbumin. Electron microscopy shows that the expression of Kv3.1b is localized to the somal and proximal dendritic cytoplasmic membrane, as expected for a channel protein. These results suggest that some large pyramidal neurons may constitute a functional subpopulation, with a distinctive distribution of voltage-gated potassium channels capable of influencing their repetitive firing properties.
Myristoylated alanine-rich C-kinase substrate (MARCKS) is a major neuron-specific substrate for protein kinase C, and is involved in both neurite outgrowth and synaptic plasticity. Using both Northern blot and in situ hybridization techniques, we investigated whether the expression of MARCKS mRNA in the monkey cerebral neocortex and hippocampus changed during the developmental period. In each of four neocortical areas examined, i.e. the prefrontal area (area FD of [Illinois Monographs in the Medical Sciences (1947) 1]), the temporal association area (TE), the primary somatosensory area (PB), and the primary visual area (OC), the Northern blot analysis showed that the amount of MARCKS mRNA was high during the fetal and early postnatal periods, and decreased sharply between postnatal day 70 and postnatal month 6. The in situ hybridization experiments showed that the expression of MARCKS mRNA was decreased in every layer of neocortical areas at postnatal month 6 or later. In the primary sensory areas (areas PB and OC), the degree of decrease was higher in the supragranular layers (layers II and III) than in the infragranular layers (layers V and VI). In the hippocampus, the developmental change in the amount of MARCKS mRNA was small, but the in situ hybridization revealed a prominent decrease in Ammon's horn in monkeys on postnatal month 8 and later. These findings indicate that region-specific expression of MARCKS mRNA is established around postnatal month 6. We suggest that the extensive expression of MARCKS mRNA is one of the molecular bases of high plasticity in the infant cerebral cortex.
Compelling evidence indicates that the long (D2L) and the short (D2S) isoform of dopamine (DA) D2 receptors serve distinct physiological functions in vivo. To address the involvement of these isoforms in the control of synaptic transmission in the striatum, we measured the sensitivity to D2 receptor stimulation of glutamate- and GABA-mediated currents recorded from striatal neurons of three mutant mice, in which the expression of D2L and D2S receptors was either ablated or variably altered. Our data indicate that both isoforms participate in the presynaptic inhibition of GABA transmission in the striatum, while the D2-receptor-dependent modulation of glutamate release preferentially involves the D2S receptor. Accordingly, the inhibitory effects of the DA D2 receptor agonist quinpirole (10 microM) on GABA(A)-mediated spontaneous inhibitory postsynaptic currents (IPSCs)correlate with the total number of D2 receptor sites in the striatum, irrespective of the specific receptor isoform expressed. In contrast, glutamate-mediated spontaneous excitatory postsynaptic currents (EPSCs) were significantly inhibited by quinpirole only when the total number of D2 receptor sites, normally composed by both D2L and D2S receptors in a ratio favoring the D2L isoform, was modified to express only the D2S isoform at higher than normal levels. Understanding the physiological roles of DA D2 receptors in the striatum is essential for the treatment of several neuropsychiatric conditions, such as Parkinson's disease, Tourette's syndrome, schizophrenia, and drug addiction.
Chronic or acute perinatal asphyxia (PA) has been correlated with the subsequent development of cerebral palsy (CP), a developmental neurological disorder characterized by spasticity and motor abnormalities often associated with cognitive deficits. Despite the prevalence of CP, an animal model that mimics the lifetime hypertonic motor deficits is still not available. In the present study, the consequences of PA on motor behavior, gait and organization of the primary motor cortex were examined in rats, and compared with the behavioral and neurological consequences of early postnatal movement-restriction with or without oxygen deprivation. Rats subjected to PA had mild increases in muscular tone accompanied by subtle differences in walking patterns, paralleled by significantly altered but relatively modest disorganization of their primary motor cortices. Movement-restricted rats, suffering PA or not, had reduced body growth rate, markedly increased muscular tone at rest and with active flexion and extension around movement-restricted joints that resulted in abnormal walking patterns and in a profoundly distorted representation of the hind limbs in the primary motor cortex. Within the sensorimotor-restricted groups, non-anoxic rats presented the most abnormal pattern and the greatest cortical representational degradation. This outcome further supports the argument that PA per se may represent a substrate for subtle altered motor behaviors, and that PA alone is sufficient to alter the organization of the primary motor cortex. At the same time, they also show that early experience-dependent movements play a crucial role in shaping normal behavioral motor abilities, and can make a powerful contribution to the genesis of aberrant movement abilities.
While it is generally accepted that cognitive processes such as learning and memory are affected by emotion, the impact of depression on learning and memory has rarely been directly studied in experimental animals. Effects of induced depressive behavior on learning and memory were determined in rats, using an open space swim test, a novel animal model of depressive behavior that is developed recently in our laboratory. The model indexes searching activity of the animals, with the induced depressive immobility behavior showing specific sensitivity to three major prototypic classes of antidepressants and a selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor. The induced depressive behavior in rats showed a delayed response to chronic antidepressant treatment and had a lasting effect on the ability of rats to learn and recall the learned experience. It impaired the subsequent ability of rats to learn and recall both a spatial water maze task and a multi-trial passive avoidance task. These impairments were all sensitive to antidepressant therapeutics, but not to buspirone, an anxiolytic. By way of contrast, the ability of the rats to sense and move to a visible platform and to escape from an unconditioned shock stimulus was neither impaired by inducing the depressive behavior nor altered by the drug treatment, suggesting that non-specific changes in sensorimotor ability were not involved. These impairments of learning and memory indicate that the depressive behavior-induced deficits show generalizability and are not context-limited. This animal model of depressive behavior shows promising potential as a screen for novel antidepressive therapeutics and as a disease model for revealing network/cellular/molecular mechanisms in the pathophysiology of depression and depression-induced cognitive deficits.
Downregulation of the growth hormone/insulin-like growth factor-1 (IGF-1)axis is one of the most robust biomarkers of mammalian aging. Reports have suggested that age-related changes in secretion of growth hormone and IGF-1 contribute to the development of some peripheral characteristics of the aged phenotype including decreased bone density and lean body mass. Recent work has focused on the identification of a role for age-related reductions in growth hormone and IGF-1 in the development of cognitive impairments associated with aging. In the current study, we report that aged (30 month-old) Brown Norway x Fisher rats demonstrate impairments in spatial learning compared with adult (10 month-old) animals, and that 4-month treatment with growth hormone (300 microg twice daily) attenuates age-related learning impairments. After 6 months of treatment, we employed an extracellular paired-pulse protocol to investigate age-related changes in hippocampal short-term plasticity, and found that aged rats exhibit significantly increased paired-pulse ratios (PPRs) at an interpulse interval of 50 ms compared with adult rats. Long-term growth hormone administration restored PPRs in aged animals to values comparable to those observed in adult controls. Since the age-related changes observed in PPR may result from decreases in hippocampal inhibitory tone mediated by GABA(A) receptors, we assessed GABA(A) receptor subunit expression by immunoblot analysis. Data revealed significant age-related decreases in GABA(A) receptor alpha-1 subunit expression which were attenuated by growth hormone treatment. However, hippocampal levels of the gamma2 subunit, glutamic acid decarboxylase (GAD)(65), and GAD(67) protein concentrations were not significantly affected by age or growth hormone treatment. In conclusion, we suggest that age-related decreases in growth hormone and IGF-1 contribute to cognitive decline, in part, via alterations in hippocampal short-term plasticity. Changes in plasticity may reflect a shift in the balance of hippocampal inhibitory and excitatory function.
In situ localization of nerve growth factor (NGF) mRNA was examined in the nerve lesions of patients with vasculitic neuropathy. Double labeling of in situ hybridization for NGF mRNA and immunohistochemistry for cell markers showed that NGF mRNA was expressed in a wide range of lineages of cells: Schwann cells, infiltrating macrophages, T cells and perivascular cells. Round-shaped macrophages with early-phase features expressed high levels of NGF mRNA, in contrast to late-phase polymorphic macrophages, which expressed low levels of NGF mRNA. NGF mRNA was also expressed universally in T cells with various cell surface markers. Epineurial macrophages surrounding vasculitic lesions and endoneurial T cells expressed high levels of NGF mRNA in the damaged nerves. Moreover, the extent of endoneurial NGF expression level in macrophages was closely related to the degree of axonal regeneration. These results suggest that NGF is expressed in a wide range of lineages of cells but is differentially expressed spatially in vasculitic nerve lesions, and that the expressed NGF, particularly in macrophages, may play an important role in the nerve regeneration process.

Peripheral nerve inflammation is a common clinical problem that accompanies nerve injury and several diseases including Guillain-Barre syndrome and acute and chronic inflammatory demyelinating polyneuropathy. To determine if neuropeptides are induced in motor neurons after inflammation and to study the mechanisms involved, a nerve cuff soaked in complete Freund's adjuvant (CFA) was applied locally to the facial nerve of Balb/C mice. This procedure resulted in an influx of lymphocytes and macrophages to the affected area and a blockade of retrograde axonal transport distal, but not proximal, to the site of application. The same treatment resulted in a strong ipsilateral induction of pituitary adenylyl cyclase activating peptide (PACAP) gene expression in motor neurons in the facial motor nucleus. Because the changes could have occurred due to the loss of target-derived factors or to the production of new factors by immune cells, we studied the effect of the inflammatory stimulus on PACAP mRNA in mice with severe combined immunodeficiency (SCID). As expected, SCID mice showed a severely reduced influx of T-lymphocytes but not macrophages to the peripheral nerve. Moreover, although retrograde transport distal to the inflammation site was blocked similarly in control and SCID mice, the number of motor neurons expressing PACAP mRNA after CFA application was significantly reduced in SCID mice. The data indicate that the induction of PACAP mRNA during nerve inflammation requires the involvement of lymphocytes. However, because the induction of PACAP gene expression was only partially blocked in SCID mice, macrophages, loss of target-derived factors, or other mechanisms may also contribute to the upregulation of PACAP gene expression in motor neurons after nerve inflammation.
The hypothalamic suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN) contains the primary circadian pacemaker in mammals, and transmits circadian signals by diurnal modulation of neuronal firing frequency. The ionic mechanisms underlying the circadian regulation of firing frequency are unknown, but may involve changes in membrane potential and voltage-gated ion channels. Here we describe novel tetrodotoxin- and nifedipine-resistant subthreshold, voltage-dependent cation (SVC) channels that are active at resting potential of SCN neurons and increase their open probability (P(o)) with membrane depolarization. The increased P(o) reflects changes in the kinetics of the slow component of the channel closed-time, but not the channel open-time or fast closed-time. This study provides a background for investigation of the possible role of SVC channels in regulation of circadian oscillations of membrane excitability in SCN neurons.
Recently, the reports that sensory nerves contribute to induction and development of peripheral inflammation have been accumulating. Although neuropeptides have been thought to participate in modulation of inflammation, we supposed the involvement of cytokines. Interleukin-12 (IL-12) is a key regulator of cell-mediated immunity. IL-12 is heterodimer cytokine consisting of a p35 and a p40 subunit, but the results that some of immune cell types secrete p40-homodimer have been reported. In this study, we investigated the expression and secretion of IL-12 in mouse sensory neurons in order to evaluate the involvement of sensory neurons in cell-mediated immunity. Expression of IL-12 p40 mRNA was detected and enhanced by interferon-gamma (IFN-gamma), but another subunit of IL-12 p35 mRNA was not detected in sensory dorsal root ganglion (DRG) neurons in culture. IL-12 p40 molecule was detected in DRG neurons by immunocytochemistry. In addition, cultured DRG neurons secreted p40-homodimer that inhibited IL-12-induced STAT4 phosphorylation in T cells. p40 mRNA expression was accumulated in DRG after administration of IFN-gamma into mouse footpad, and this enhancement was eliminated by a cut of sciatic nerve. These results suggest the possibility that p40-homodimer derived from sensory nerves suppresses the excessive peripheral inflammation.
The serotonin system is highly involved in the pathophysiology of mood disorders such as depression and anxiety. Currently, the most widely used treatment for these illnesses is selective serotonin (5-HT)reuptake inhibitors, such as fluoxetine. Because of the multiplicity of 5-HT receptors and their different adaptive properties, the chronic effects of fluoxetine have remained unclear. In this study, we investigated the alteration of 5-HT functions by long-term antidepressant treatment in pyramidal neurons of prefrontal cortex (PFC), a brain region crucial for the control of emotion and cognition. One prominent function of serotonin in PFC is to regulate GABAergic inhibitory transmission. Application of 5-HT induced a large, desensitizing enhancement of the amplitude and frequency of spontaneous inhibitory postsynaptic currents (sIPSC), as well as a potent reduction of electrically evoked IPSC (eIPSC). Chronic fluoxetine treatment did not alter basal sIPSC, but reduced eIPSC in response to different stimulus strengths. Moreover, chronic (but not acute) fluoxetine treatment caused a much faster desensitization of the 5-HT effect on sIPSC, and significantly attenuated the 5-HT effect on eIPSC. Application of a 5-HT(2) receptor agonist produced similar effects as 5-HT on sIPSC and eIPSC, and these effects were similarly altered by long-term fluoxetine treatment. These electrophysiological results suggest that chronic antidepressant treatment resulted in a down-regulation of the synaptic function of forebrain 5-HT(2) receptors. Given the key role of GABAergic inhibitory transmission in controlling PFC functions, its altered regulation by serotonin after chronic fluoxetine treatment may provide a mechanism underlying the therapeutic action of antidepressants.
Hypoglossal motoneurones play a major role in maintaining the patency of the upper airways and in determining airways resistance. These neurones receive inputs from many different regions of the neuroaxis including the caudal raphe nuclei. Whilst we have previously shown that glutamate is utilised in projections from one of these caudal raphe nuclei, the raphe pallidus, to hypoglossal motoneurones, these raphe pallidus-hypoglossal projections also contain multiple co-localised neuropeptides, including a population that are immunopositive for enkephalin. The role of enkephalin in the control of hypoglossal motoneurones is unknown. Therefore the aim of these studies was to determine whether enkephalins modulate caudal raphe glutamatergic inputs to hypoglossal motoneurones. Whole cell recordings were made from rat hypoglossal motoneurones in vitro, with glutamate-mediated excitatory postsynaptic currents (EPSCs) evoked in these neurones following electrical stimulation within the raphe pallidus. Superfusion of enkephalin significantly decreased the amplitude of these raphe pallidus evoked EPSCs (56.1+/-29% of control, P&lt;0.001), an action that was mirrored by the tau-opioid receptor agonist, [D-Ala, N-Me-Phe, Gly-ol]-enkephalin acetate (DAMGO;53.8+/-26%, P&lt;0.01), but not by the delta-opioid receptor agonist, [D-Pen]-enkephalin (DPDPE). Enkephalin also increased the amplitude ratio (1.57+/-0.36 vs. 1.14+/-0.27, P&lt;0.01) of pairs of evoked EPSCs (paired pulse ratio), decreased the frequency (P&lt;0.0001) but not the amplitude of miniature EPSCs, whilst having no effect on the inward current evoked by glutamate applied directly to the postsynaptic cell (97.8+/-2.2% of control, P=n.s.). Likewise, DAMGO also increased the paired pulse ratio (1.62+/-0.35 vs. 1.31+/-0.14, P&lt;0.05) and decreased the frequency of miniature EPSCs (P&lt;0.0001). Together, these data suggest that enkephalin acts at tau-opioid receptors located on the presynaptic terminals of raphe pallidus inputs to hypoglossal motoneurones to significantly decrease glutamate release from these projections.
5-HT(4) receptors are widely distributed in both peripheral and central nervous systems where they couple, via a G-protein, to the activation of adenylate cyclase. In the brain, the highest 5-HT(4) receptor densities are found in the limbic system, including the hippocampus and frontal cortex. It has been suggested that activation of these receptors may be of therapeutic benefit in diseases that produce cognitive deficits such as Alzheimer's disease (AD). Previous electrophysiological studies have shown that the 5-HT(4) agonist, Zacopride, can increase population spike amplitude recorded in region CA1 of rat hippocampal slices in a cyclic AMP (cAMP)/cAMP-dependent protein kinase A-dependent manner. We report here that the 5-HT(4) agonist, Prucalopride, and the 5-HT(4) partial agonist, SL65.0155, produce a similar effect in rat hippocampal slices and that the specific 5-HT(4) antagonist, GR113808, blocks these effects. To investigate the potential use of 5-HT(4) agonists in the treatment of AD, Prucalopride was applied to hippocampal slices from a transgenic mouse line that overexpresses the Abeta peptide. Despite the deficit in synaptic transmission present in these mice, the percentage increase of the CA1 population spike induced by Prucalopride was the same as that observed in wild-type mice. These data support 5-HT(4) receptors as a target for cognitive enhancement and suggest that a partial agonist would be sufficient to produce benefits, while reducing potential peripheral side effects. In addition, we show that 5-HT(4) receptors remain functional in the presence of excess Abeta peptide and may therefore be a useful target in AD.
Dorsal root ganglion neurons express functional AMPA and kainate receptors near their central terminals. Activation of these receptors causes a decrease in glutamate release during action potential evoked synaptic transmission. Due to differences in kinetic properties and expression patterns of these two families of glutamate receptors in subpopulations of sensory neurons, AMPA and kainate receptors are expected to function differently. We used embryonic dorsal root ganglion (DRG) neurons maintained in culture to compare functional properties of kainate and AMPA receptors. Most DRG neurons in culture expressed kainate receptors and about half also expressed AMPA receptors. Most AMPA and kainate receptor-expressing DRG neurons were sensitive to capsaicin, suggesting involvement of these glutamate receptors in nociception. When activated by kainate, AMPA receptors were capable of driving a sustained train of action potentials while kainate receptors tended to activate action potential firing more transiently. Glutamate elicited more action potentials and a larger steady-state depolarization in neurons expressing both AMPA and kainate receptors than in neurons expressing only kainate receptors. Adding to their more potent activation properties, AMPA receptors recovered from desensitization much more quickly than kainate receptors. Activation of presynaptic receptors by low concentrations of kainate, but not ATPA, caused a tetrodotoxin-sensitive increase in the frequency of spontaneous EPSCs recorded in dorsal horn neurons. By recording synaptic pairs of DRG and dorsal horn neurons, we found that activation of presynaptic kainate and AMPA receptors decreased evoked glutamate release from terminals of DRG neurons in culture. Our data suggest that the endogenous ligand, glutamate, will cause a different physiological impact when activating these two types of non-NMDA glutamate receptors at central or peripheral nerve endings of sensory neurons.
Water and NaCl intake is strongly inhibited by the activation of alpha(2)-adrenergic receptors with clonidine or moxonidine (alpha(2)-adrenergic/imidazoline agonists) injected peripherally or into the forebrain and by serotonin and cholecystokinin in the lateral parabrachial nucleus (LPBN). Considering that alpha(2)-adrenergic receptors exist in the LPBN and the similar origin of serotonergic and adrenergic afferent pathways to the LPBN, in this study we investigated the effects of bilateral injections of moxonidine alone or combined with RX 821002 (alpha(2)-adrenergic antagonist) into the LPBN on 1.8% NaCl and water intake induced by the treatment with s.c. furosemide (10mg/kg)+captopril (5 mg/kg). Additionally, we investigated if moxonidine into the LPBN would modify furosemide+captopril-induced c-fos expression in the forebrain. Male Holtzman rats with cannulas implanted bilaterally in the LPBN were used. Contrary to forebrain injections, bilateral LPBN injections of moxonidine (0.1, 0.5 and 1 nmol/0.2 microl) strongly increased furosemide+captopril-induced 1.8% NaCl intake (16.6+/-2.7, 44.5+/-3.2 and 44.5+/-4.3 ml/2 h, respectively, vs. vehicle: 6.9+/-1.5 ml/2 h). Only the high dose of moxonidine increased water intake (23.3+/-3.8 ml/2 h, vs. vehicle: 12.1+/-2.6 ml/2 h). Prior injections of RX 821002 (10 and 20 nmol/0.2 microl) abolished the effect of moxonidine (0.5 nmol) on 1.8% NaCl intake. Moxonidine into the LPBN did not modify furosemide+captopril-induced c-fos expression in forebrain areas related to the control of fluid-electrolyte balance. The results show that the activation of LPBN alpha(2)-adrenergic receptors enhances furosemide+captopril-induced 1.8% NaCl and water intake. This enhancement was not related to prior alteration in the activity of forebrain areas as suggested by c-fos expression. Previous and present results indicate opposite roles for alpha(2)-adrenergic receptors in the control of sodium and water intake according to their distribution in the rat brain.
Nicotine can enhance contextual learning while ethanol impairs some forms of learning. Nicotine can overcome some of the impairing effects of ethanol when the two drugs are co-administered. The specific brain nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (nAChRs) that mediate nicotine's effects on contextual learning and whether any of ethanol's actions are mediated by nAChRs are unknown. The potential roles of nAChRs in contextual and cued fear conditioning as well as the effects of nicotine, ethanol, or co-administration of nicotine and ethanol were examined in wild type and homozygous null mutant mice from alpha7, beta2, beta3, and beta4 mouse lines at 24 h after training. Nicotine was given prior to training and testing, whereas ethanol was given only before training. Nicotine enhanced contextual learning in both alpha7 wild types and mutants when mice were trained at 0.17 mA, but not 0.35 mA. Mutants lacking the alpha7 subunit were less sensitive to the memory impairing effects of ethanol trained at 0.35 mA. beta2 Null mutants receiving saline showed a small, but significant, impairment in contextual learning compared with wild type littermates when the shock stimulus was 0.35 mA. Beta2 Null mutant mice also did not respond to the cognitive enhancing effects of nicotine alone, or after ethanol administration. beta3 and beta4 null mutants did not differ from wild types either after saline or any of drug treatments. These results show that beta2-containing nAChRs, but not beta3- or beta4-containing receptors, mediate the enhancing effects of nicotine on contextual learning and confirm previous studies implicating beta2 in other forms of learning. A new role for alpha7 nAChRs in regulating sensitivity to the cognitive disrupting effects of ethanol is proposed.
In order to clarify the role of hippocampal N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) and alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methylisoxazole-4-propionate (AMPA) receptors in different stages of spatial working memory, we first assessed the rats' performance in a delay-interposed eight-arm radial maze task (experiment 1). When a delay was interposed after the first four correct choices, rats showed more errors in the second-half performance depending on the length of delay; however, they did not show any significant increase of error choices until the delay was beyond 2 h. We then tested the effect of 2-amino-5-phosphonopentanoic acid (AP5), a competitive NMDA receptor antagonist, and 2,3-dioxo-6-nitro-1,2,3,4-tetrahydrobenzo[f]quinoxaline-7-sulfonamide (NBQX)-disodium, an AMPA receptor antagonist, on a standard (no delay-interposed) radial maze task (experiment 2). The drug effect was maintained 15-30 min but it completely disappeared 60 min after dorsal hippocampal microinjection. Based on these findings we finally investigated the effects of hippocampal AP5 and NBQX administered at different stages of 2 h delay-interposed radial maze task on the second-half performance (experiment 3). AP5 immediately before the first-half and before the second-half performance significantly impaired the correct choices, but the treatment immediately after the first-half performance did not, while NBQX impaired them in all three conditions. Results suggest that hippocampal NMDA receptors play an important role in encoding and retrieval processes of spatial working memory, while AMPA receptor activation is necessary not only in these processes but also in consolidation/retention process.
Increases in neuronal activity in response to tissue or nerve injury can lead to prolonged functional changes in the spinal cord resulting in an enhancement/sensitization of nociceptive processing. To assess the contribution of alpha-calcium-calmodulin kinase II (alpha-CaMKII) to injury-induced inflammation and pain, we evaluated nociceptive responses in mice that carry a point mutation in the alpha-CaMKII gene at position 286 (threonine to alanine). The mutated protein is unable to autophosphorylate and thus cannot function independently of calcium and calmodulin. Responses to acute noxious stimuli did not differ between alpha-CaMKII T286A mutant and wild type mice. However, the ongoing pain produced by formalin injury was significantly reduced in the mutant mice, as was formalin-evoked spinal Fos-immunoreactivity. In contrast, the decreased mechanical and thermal thresholds associated with nerve injury, Complete Freund's Adjuvant-induced inflammation or formalin-evoked tissue injury were manifest equally in wild-type and mutant mice. Double-labeling immunofluorescence studies revealed that in the mouse alpha-CaMKII is expressed in the superficial dorsal horn as well as in a population of small diameter primary afferent neurons. In summary, our results suggest that alpha-CaMKII, perhaps secondary to an N-methyl-D-aspartate-mediated calcium increase in postsynaptic dorsal horn nociresponsive neurons, is a critical contributor to the spontaneous/ongoing component of tissue-injury evoked persistent pain.
Combined physiological and connectional studies show significant non-topographic extrinsic projections to frequency-specific domains in the cat auditory cortex. These frequency-mismatched loci in the thalamus, ipsilateral cortex, and commissural system complement the predicted topographic and tonotopic projections. Two tonotopic areas, the primary auditory cortex (AI) and the anterior auditory field (AAF), were electrophysiologically characterized by their frequency organization. Next, either cholera toxin beta subunit or cholera toxin beta subunit gold conjugate was injected into frequency-matched locations in each area to reveal the projection pattern from the thalamus and cortex. Most retrograde labeling was found at tonotopically appropriate locations within a 1 mm-wide strip in the thalamus and a 2-3 mm-wide expanse of cortex (approximately 85%). However, approximately 13-30% of the neurons originated from frequency-mismatched locations far from their predicted positions in thalamic nuclei and cortical areas, respectively. We propose that these heterotopic projections satisfy at least three criteria that may be necessary to support the magnitude and character of plastic changes in physiological studies. First, they are found in the thalamus, ipsilateral and commissural cortex; since this reorganization could arise from any of these routes and may involve each, such projections ought to occur in them. Second, they originate from nuclei and areas with or without tonotopy; it is likely that plasticity is not exclusively shaped by spectral influences and not limited to cochleotopic regions. Finally, the projections are appropriate in magnitude and sign to plausibly support such rearrangements; given the rapidity of some aspects of plastic changes, they should be mediated by substantial existing connections. Alternative roles for these heterotopic projections are also considered.
Numerous studies have identified connections between the superficial visual and deeper multisensory layers of the superior colliculus (SC), but the functional distribution of the superficial-deep projection has not been mapped. This question was assessed in the present study using extracellular electrophysiological stimulation and recording techniques. In vitro slices from adult ferrets were used to functionally map the rostro-caudal, medio-lateral, and dorso-ventral distribution of these superficial-deep connections. For each coronal (n=6) or parasagittal (n=10) slice, single and multi-unit responses to electrical stimulation of a point in the superficial layers were systematically recorded at different locations along a grid (approximately 300 microm intervals) across the slice. Recording sites with similar activation thresholds were grouped on the histological reconstruction of each slice to plot the functional access of superficial stimulation site to the deeper layers. Low intensity stimulation (defined as a current threshold &lt; or =75 microA) activated areas of the subjacent intermediate layers in most cases (75%; 12/16). Higher intensity stimuli (&gt; 75-600 microA) accessed larger areas which, in 50% of the slices, extended into the deepest layers of the SC. However, regardless of the rostro-caudal or medio-lateral position of the superficial layer stimulation site, the proportion of the deeper layers activated remained remarkably constant, although the volume of activated deep layer tissue was shifted in each case toward the central regions of the SC. This last observation argues against the precise alignment of the superficial and deep layer visual maps, suggesting instead that the arrangement of the superficial layer projection may more closely relate to the organization of deep layer auditory and/or somatosensory representations.
Using an indirect immunoperoxidase technique, we studied the distribution of immunoreactive fibers and cell bodies containing methionine-enkephalin-Arg(6)-Gly(7)-Leu(8) in the adult human brainstem. Immunoreactive cell bodies were found in the reticular formation of the medulla oblongata (in which we observed the highest density of immunoreactive cell bodies) and the pons, the solitary nucleus, the hypoglossal nucleus, the medial and spinal vestibular nuclei, the lateral cuneate nucleus, the nucleus prepositus, the central gray of the pons and mesencephalon, the central and pericentral nuclei of the inferior colliculus, the superior colliculus, ventral to the superior olive and in the midline region of the pons and mesencephalon. The highest density of immunoreactive fibers containing methionine-enkephalin-Arg(6)-Gly(7)-Leu(8) was found in the spinal trigeminal nucleus, the central gray and the reticular formation of the medulla oblongata, pons and mesencephalon, the solitary nucleus, the spinal vestibular nucleus, the dorsal accessory olivary nucleus, the raphe obscurus, the substantia nigra and in the interpeduncular nucleus. The widespread distribution of immunoreactive structures containing methionine-enkephalin-Arg(6)-Gly(7)-Leu(8) in the human brainstem indicates that this neuropeptide might be involved in several physiological mechanisms, acting as a neurotransmitter and/or neuromodulator.
It is well established that syntaxin 1A, synaptosomal-associated protein of 25 kDa (SNAP-25) and synaptotagmin either alone or in combination, modulate the kinetic properties of voltage-gated Ca(2+) channels Ca(v)1.2 (Lc-channel) Ca(v)2.2 (N-type) and Ca(v)2.1 (P/Q-type). The interaction interface was found to reside at the cytosolic II-III domain of the alpha1 subunit of the channels. In this study, we demonstrated a functional coupling of human neuronal Ca(v)2.3 (R-type channel) with syntaxin 1A, SNAP-25 and synaptotagmin in BAPTA injected Xenopus oocytes. The kinetic properties of Ca(v)2.3 assembled with syntaxin 1A, SNAP-25 or synaptotagmin individually differed from Ca(v)2.3 associated with binary complexes syntaxin 1A/SNAP-25, syntaxin 1A/synaptotagmin or SNAP-25/synaptotagmin. Co-expression of Ca(v)2.3 with syntaxin 1A, SNAP-25 and synaptotagmin together, produced a channel with distinctive kinetic properties analogous to excitosome multiprotein complex generated by Ca(v)1.2 and Ca(v)2.2. Exchanging the current-carrying ions altered the kinetics of channel/synaptic proteins interaction, indicating a tight crosstalk formed between the permeation pathway of Ca(v)2.3 and the fusion apparatus during membrane depolarization. This putative coupling could predict how the release site might be organized to allow a rapid communication between the channel and the release machinery. In vivo confocal imaging of oocytes revealed GFP-synaptotagmin at the plasma membrane when the channel was present, as opposed to random distribution in its absence, consistent with Ca(2+)-independent molecular link of synaptotagmin and the channel. Synaptotagmin was detected at the membrane also in oocytes co-expressing the soluble N-ethylmaleimide-sensitive factor attachment protein receptors (SNAREs). Both imaging studies and protein-protein interactions in Xenopus oocytes show that channel linkage to synaptotagmin precedes Ca(2+) influx. Altogether, the R-type channel appears to associate with synaptic proteins to generate a multiprotein excitosome complex prior to Ca(2+)-entry. We propose that the distinct kinetics of the Ca(2+)-channel acquired by the close association with the vesicle and the t-SNAREs within the excitosome complex may be essential for depolarization evoked transmitter release.
Hydrostatic pressure gradients due to the gravitational force in blood vessels disappear under conditions of microgravity during spaceflight, and the ability of the baroreceptor reflex to control arterial pressure and blood distribution may be altered. We hypothesized, on the basis of the results obtained in our previous experiments using the head-down tilt method in rats and rabbits, that the range of increase in arterial pressure caused by animal behavior narrows under conditions of microgravity, affecting the development of high-threshold unmyelinated fibers in the rat aortic nerve which sends signals from baroreceptors located in the aortic wall to the reflex center. We verified this hypothesis using 9-day-old rat neonates housed with their dams for 16 days on the space shuttle Columbia in outer space (STS-90, Neurolab Mission). Age-matched neonatal rats with the dams remained on the ground as controls. After breeding was carried out in the three experimental groups (FLT, spaceflight; AGC, asynchronous ground control; VIV, vivarium ground control), specimens of the 25-day-old rats were excised and five left aortic nerves in each group were examined by electron microscopy. The number of aortic unmyelinated fibers was significantly less in the FLT group than in each ground control (mean+/-S.D.; 139+/-37 in the FLT, 207+/-36 in the AGC, 283+/-121 in the VIV; P&lt;0.05), which may be related to the weakness of the baroreceptor reflex under conditions of microgravity in space. This result may contribute to understanding of the several cardiovascular issues which occur under microgravity and after reexposure to gravity in human.
The subventricular zone (SVZ) in the forebrain is the largest source of neural stem cells and progenitor cells in the adult CNS. To assess the ability of adult neural stem cells to survive, differentiate and migrate, we have compared the behavior of dissociated, neurosphere-derived stem cells with that of progenitor cells in transplantation experiments. This ability was first tested in vivo, offering the stem cells the possibility to migrate along the rostral migratory stream (RMS), their specific pathway. In addition, the differential behaviors of the two classes of cells were also compared in vitro by grafting them into organotypic slice cultures containing either tangential (embryonic cerebral cortex) or radial (early postnatal cerebellar cortex) migratory routes. Most of the grafted adult neurosphere-derived stem cells survived and integrated in vivo, and a proportion of them differentiate into neurons, oligodendrocytes or astrocytes. However, they were unable to migrate along the RMS and remained in the vicinity of the injection site. In contrast, SVZ progenitor cells were able to migrate toward the olfactory bulb and, once there, to acquire the phenotype of granule cells, as previously reported. In vitro, neural stem cells exhibited a better migratory ability, although they only migrated for short distances, particularly, in forebrain slices. Nevertheless, the average distance covered by progenitor cells was a two-fold longer than that covered by neural stem cells, corroborating that this class of more specified cells has higher migratory ability. These results suggest that the in vitro conditions of expanding SVZ-derived stem cells, required to maintain them in an immature stage might modify their intrinsic properties, preventing their differentiation into neuroblasts and their subsequent migration.
In Drosophila neuromuscular junctions, there is a unique system which consists of two neighboring muscles (M6 and M7) innervated by the same neurons and a gene of interest can be expressed in only M6 or in both muscles by GAL4-upstream activating sequence expression system. By using this system, we previously demonstrated that expression of activated calcium/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II (CaMKII) in the muscle cell promotes coordinated maturation of pre- and postsynaptic sites of larvae just after hatching (JAH larvae) in a synapse-specific manner. Here we show that the promotive effects are no longer seen in the older larvae, 8-10 h after hatching (8 h AH larvae). Morphological studies indicate that CaMKII activation in fact reduces postsynaptic sites at 8 h AH. This is opposite to the effect observed in JAH larvae. These results suggest that the mode of CaMKII function switches during development, and that regulation of postsynaptic CaMKII activity is necessary for normal synaptic development. Finally, we report that in 8 h AH but not in JAH larvae, synapses on M7, in which CaMKII activity is not manipulated, are affected by the expression of activated CaMKII in M6. This suggests the interesting possibility that at certain developmental stages only, modification of synapses on one target cell can influence the synapses on another target cell innervated by the same neurons.
It is generally believed that the spinal cord and hindbrain consist of a motor basal plate and a sensory alar plate. We now have molecular markers for these territories. The relationship of migrating branchiomotor neurons to molecularly defined alar and basal domains was examined in the chicken embryo by mapping the expression of cadherin-7 and cadherin-6B, in comparison to genetic markers for ventrodorsal patterning (Otp, Pax6, Pax7, Nkx2.2, and Shh) and motoneuron subpopulations (Phox2b and Isl1). We show cadherin-7 is expressed in a complete radial domain occupying a lateral region of the hindbrain basal plate. The cadherin-7 domain abuts the medial border of Pax7 expression; this common limit defines, or at least approximates, the basal/alar boundary. The hindbrain branchiomotor neurons originate in the medial part of the basal plate, close to the floor plate. Their cadherin-7-positive axons grow into the alar plate and exit the hindbrain close to the corresponding afferent nerve root. The cadherin-7-positive neuronal cell bodies later translocate laterally, following this axonal trajectory, thereby passing through the cadherin-7-positive basal plate domain. Finally, the cell bodies traverse the molecularly defined basal/alar boundary and move into positions within the alar plate. After the migration has ended, the branchiomotor neurons switch expression from cadherin-7 to cadherin-6B. These findings demonstrate that a specific subset of primary motor neurons, the branchiomotor neurons, migrate into the alar plate of the chicken embryo. Consequently, the century-old concept that all primary motor neurons come to reside in the basal plate should be revised.
It has been well documented that in adult rats astrocytes in the subventricular zone and subgranular layer of the dentate gyrus are neural stem cells. Elsewhere in the CNS astrocytes are not generally recognized as stem cells. Here we describe nestin expression in a population of astrocytes in the spinal cord of adult rat following cord injury. In either hemitransectioned or longitudinally cut spinal cord, there was widespread nestin expression in astrocytes of both the gray and white matters. Isolation of the lateral part of the spinal cord from the central canal region, where stem cells may reside, could not block the appearance of nestin-immunoreactive astrocytes in the lateral cord, and none of them showed Fast DiI labeling after the central canal ependyma had been labeled by the dye, indicating that the nestin-immunoreactive astrocytes can evolve locally in the lateral cord. They were found to be undergoing a process of de-differentiation. Culture of the nestin-immunoreactive astrocytes of the lateral cord generated neurospheres, the cells of which had the ability of self-renewal, and were able to differentiate into neurons, astrocytes, or oligodendrocytes. Taken together, the results indicate that the astrocytes in injured adult rat spinal cord may acquire the potential of neural stem cells.
Neuronal repair following injury requires recruitment of large amounts of membranous proteins into synaptic and other cell membranes, which is carried out by the fusion of transport vesicles to their target membranes. A critical molecule responsible for assemblage of membranous proteins is N-ethylmaleimide-sensitive factor (NSF) which is an ATPase. To study whether NSF is involved in ischemic neurological deficits and delayed neuronal death, we investigated alterations of NSF after transient cerebral ischemia by means of biochemical methods, as well as confocal and electron microscopy. We found that transient cerebral ischemia induced depletion of free NSF and concomitantly relocalization of NSF into the Triton X-100-insoluble fraction including postsynaptic densities in CA1 neurons during the postischemic period. The NSF alterations are accompanied by accumulation of large quantities of intracellular vesicles in CA1 neurons that are undergoing delayed neuronal death after transient cerebral ischemia. Therefore, permanent depletion of free NSF and relocalization of NSF into the Triton X-100-insoluble fraction may disable the vesicle fusion machinery necessary for repair of synaptic injury, and ultimately leads to synaptic dysfunction and delayed neuronal death in CA1 neurons after transient cerebral ischemia.
Certain excitatory pathways in the rat hippocampus can release aspartate along with glutamate. This study utilized rat hippocampal synaptosomes to characterize the mechanism of aspartate release and to compare it with glutamate release. Releases of aspartate and glutamate from the same tissue samples were quantitated simultaneously. Both amino acids were released by 25 mM K(+), 300 microM 4-aminopyridine (4-AP) and 0.5 and 1 microM ionomycin in a predominantly Ca(2+)-dependent manner. For a roughly equivalent quantity of glutamate released, aspartate release was significantly greater during exposure to elevated [K(+)] than to 4-AP and during exposure to 0.5 than to 1 microM ionomycin. Aspartate release was inefficiently coupled to P/Q-type voltage-dependent Ca(2+) channels and was reduced by KB-R7943, an inhibitor of reversed Na(+)/Ca(2+) exchange. In contrast, glutamate release depended primarily on Ca(2+) influx through P/Q-type channels and was not significantly affected by KB-R7943. Pretreatment of the synaptosomes with tetanus toxin and botulinum neurotoxins C and F reduced glutamate release, but not aspartate release. Aspartate release was also resistant to bafilomycin A(1), an inhibitor of vacuolar H(+)-ATPase, whereas glutamate release was markedly reduced. (+/-) -Threo-3-methylglutamate, a non-transportable competitive inhibitor of excitatory amino acid transport, did not reduce aspartate release. Niflumic acid, a blocker of Ca(2+)-dependent anion channels, did not alter the release of either amino acid. Exogenous aspartate and aspartate recently synthesized from glutamate accessed the releasable pool of aspartate as readily as exogenous glutamate and glutamate recently synthesized from aspartate accessed the releasable glutamate pool. These results are compatible with release of aspartate from either a vesicular pool by a &quot;non-classical&quot; form of exocytosis or directly from the cytoplasm by an as-yet-undescribed Ca(2+)-dependent mechanism. In either case, they suggest aspartate is released mainly outside the presynaptic active zones and may therefore serve as the predominant agonist for extrasynaptic N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors.
Following axonal damage, sympathetic neurons are capable of regenerating and reinnervating their target tissues. Some years ago exogenous administration of polyamines was shown to enhance this regeneration. Recently, it was found that axonal injury leads to a dramatic up-regulation of the expression of arginase I in sympathetic neurons. This enzyme catalyzes the conversion of arginine to ornithine, which can subsequently be converted to the diamine putrescine and, ultimately, to the polyamines spermidine and spermine. In the present study, using an antiserum that reacts with both spermidine and spermine, we have found an increase in polyamine levels in both neurons and non-neuronal cells in the superior cervical ganglion 2 and 5 days following transection of the ganglion's postganglionic trunks. Using PC12 cells primed with nerve growth factor and then stripped off the culture dish and replated as a model system for axotomized sympathetic neurons, we found that spermidine treatment, with or without nerve growth factor, resulted in an increased percentage of cells with a neurite whose length was at least twice the diameter of the neuron's cell body. These increases could be seen within 48 h and were still evident after 8 days. Together, these data support the possibility that endogenous polyamines are involved in the normal regeneration which occurs following sympathetic axonal damage.
Intracellular ATP supply and ion homeostasis determine neuronal survival and degeneration after ischemic stroke. The present study provides a systematic investigation in organotypic hippocampal slice cultures of the influence of experimental ischemia, induced by oxygen-glucose-deprivation (OGD). The pathways controlling intracellular Na(+) and Ca(2+) concentration ([Na(+)](i) and [Ca(2+)](i)) and their inhibition were correlated with delayed cell death or protection. OGD induced a marked decrease in the ATP level and a transient elevation of [Ca(2+)](i) and [Na(+)](i) in cell soma of pyramidal neurons. ATP level, [Na(+)](i) and [Ca(2+)](i) rapidly recovered after reintroduction of oxygen and glucose. Pharmacological analysis showed that the OGD-induced [Ca(2+)](i) elevation in neuronal cell soma resulted from activation of both N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA)-glutamate receptors and Na(+)/Ca(2+) exchangers, while the abnormal [Na(+)](i) elevation during OGD was due to Na(+) influx through voltage-dependent Na(+) channels. In hippocampal slices, cellular degeneration occurring 24 h after OGD, selectively affected the pyramidal cell population through apoptotic and non-apoptotic cell death. OGD-induced cell loss was mediated by activation of ionotropic glutamate receptors, voltage-dependent Na(+) channels, and both plasma membrane and mitochondrial Na(+)/Ca(2+) exchangers. Thus, we show that neuroprotection induced by blockade of NMDA receptors and plasma membrane Na(+)/Ca(2+) exchangers is mediated by reduction of Ca(2+) entry into neuronal soma, whereas neuroprotection induced by blockade of AMPA/kainate receptors and mitochondrial Na(+)/Ca(2+) exchangers might result from reduced Na(+) entry at dendrites level.
Ascorbate is an antioxidant vitamin that is found in high concentrations in the brain which seems to have neuroprotective properties in some experimental models of excitotoxic neurological disorders, including convulsive behavior and reactive species-related damage. In this study we tested whether ascorbate (30, 100 or 300 mg/kg, i.p.) protects against the convulsions, protein carbonylation and inhibition of Na(+),K(+)-ATPase activity induced by pentylenetetrazol (PTZ; 1.8 micromol/striatum), a classical convulsant agent that has been fairly used for the study of epilepsy and screening of new compounds with antiepileptic activity. The intrastriatal injection of PTZ caused convulsive behavior in a dose-dependent manner and an increase in the total protein carbonyl content of the injected striatum. However, duration of PTZ-induced convulsive episodes did not correlate with protein carbonyl content of the injected striatum. Ascorbate, at high doses (300 mg/kg), protected against PTZ-induced convulsions, protein carbonylation and inhibition of Na(+),K(+)-ATPase activity in the rat striatum, further suggesting a anticonvulsant and neuroprotective role for this vitamin. Conversely, intermediate doses of ascorbate (100 mg/kg) potentiated the duration of the convulsive episodes, but had no additive effects on protein carbonylation or Na(+),K(+)-ATPase activity inhibition induced by PTZ. Low doses of ascorbate (30 mg/kg) prevented PTZ-induced increase of total striatal carbonyl protein content, but did not alter PTZ-induced convulsions and Na(+),K(+)-ATPase activity inhibition. Collectively, these data indicate that the anticonvulsant activity of ascorbate is not related to its antioxidant action and support a dual role for this compound as a neuroprotective agent, since while it protects against PTZ-induced cellular oxidative damage, it has a biphasic effect on PTZ-induced convulsions.
Axotomized spinal motoneurons are able to regenerate to their peripheral targets, whereas injured rubrospinal neurons that lie completely within the CNS fail to regenerate. The differing cell body reactions to axotomy of these two neuronal populations have been implicated in their disparate regenerative ability. Recently, the lectin galectin-1 has been shown to be involved in both spinal motoneurons and primary afferent regeneration. Using in situ hybridization, we compared the endogenous galectin-1 mRNA expression in spinal motoneurons and rubrospinal neurons after axotomy. We found that 7 and 14 days after axotomy, galectin-1 mRNA increased in spinal motoneurons but decreased in rubrospinal neurons. Infusion of the brain-derived neurotrophic factor into the vicinity of the injured rubrospinal nucleus, which we have previously shown to increase the regenerative capacity of rubrospinal neurons, significantly increased galectin-1 mRNA compared with uninjured control levels. Thus, the expression of galectin-1 in neurons correlates with the regenerative propensity.
Guanosine 5' triphosphate (GTP), acting synergistically with the nerve growth factor (NGF), enhances the proportion of neurite-bearing cells in cultures of PC12 rat pheochromocytoma cells. We studied the transduction mechanisms activated by GTP in PC12 cells and found that addition of GTP (100 microM) increased intracellular calcium concentration ([Ca(2+)](i)) in cells that were between 60 and 70% confluent. Addition of GTP also enhanced activation of NGF-induced extracellular regulated kinases (ERKs) and induced Ca(2+) mobilization. This mobilization, due to the activation of voltage-sensitive and ryanodine-sensitive calcium channels, as well as pertussis toxin-sensitive purinoceptors, modulates Ca(2+)-activated K(+) channels not involved in activation of ERKs. The results presented here indicate that GTP-triggered [Ca(2+)](i) increase may be a key event in GTP signal transduction, which can modulate activity of ERKs. The physiological importance of the GTP effect lies in its capacity to interact with the NGF-activated pathway to enhance neurite outgrowth from PC12 cells.
The antagonism between noggin and the bone morphogenetic proteins (BMPs) plays a key role during CNS morphogenesis and differentiation. Recent studies indicate that these secreted factors are also widely expressed in the postnatal and adult mammalian brain in areas characterized by different types of neural plasticity. In particular, significant levels of noggin and BMP expression have been described in the rodent olfactory system. In the mammalian forebrain, the olfactory bulb (OB) and associated subependymal layer (SEL) are documented as sites of adult neurogenesis. Here, using multiple approaches, including the analysis of noggin-LacZ heterozygous mice, we report the expression of noggin and two members of the BMP family, BMP4 and BMP7, in these regions of the adult mammalian forebrain. We observe that along the full extent of the SEL, from the lateral ventricle to the olfactory bulb, noggin and BMP4 and 7 are mainly associated with the astrocytic glial compartment. In the OB, BMP4 and 7 proteins remain primarily associated with the SEL while strong noggin expression was also found in cells located in different OB layers (i.e. granule, external plexiform, glomerular layers). Taken together our data lead us to hypothesize that within the SEL the antagonism between noggin and BMPs, both produced by the glial tubes, act through autocrine/paracrine inductive mechanisms to maintain a neurogenetic environment all the way from the lateral ventricle to the olfactory bulb. In the OB, their expression patterns suggest multiple regulatory roles on the unusual neural plasticity exhibited by this region.
Social aggression in the lizard Anolis carolinensis produces dominant and subordinate relationships while elevating corticosterone levels and monoaminergic transmitter activity in hippocampus (medial and mediodorsal cortex). Adaptive social behavior for dominant and subordinate male A. carolinensis is learned during aggressive interaction and therefore was hypothesized to involve hippocampus and regulation of N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA) receptors. To test the effects of social stress and corticosterone on NMDA receptor subunits (NR), male lizards were either paired or given two injections of corticosterone 1 day apart. Paired males were allowed to form dominant-subordinate relationships and were killed 1 day later. Groups included isolated controls, dominant males, subordinate males and males injected with corticosterone. Brains were processed for glutamate receptor subunit immunohistochemistry and fluorescence was analyzed by image analysis for NR(2A) and NR(2B) in the small and large cell divisions of the medial and mediodorsal cortex. In the small granule cell division there were no significant differences in NR(2A) or NR(2B) immunoreactivity among all groups. In contrast, there was a significant upregulation of NR(2A) and NR(2B) subunits in the large pyramidal cell division in all three experimental groups as compared with controls. The results revealed significantly increased NR(2A) and NR(2B) subunits in behaving animals, whereas animals simply injected with corticosterone showed less of an effect, although they were significantly increased over control. Upregulation of NR(2) subunits occurs during stressful social interactions and is likely to be regulated in part by glucocorticoids. The data also suggest that learning social roles during stressful aggressive interactions may involve NMDA receptor-mediated mechanisms.
The hippocampus and amygdala are important components of the neural circuitry mediating stress responses. While structural plasticity in the hippocampus may mediate cognitive aspects of behavioral impairments caused by severe stress, changes in the amygdala are more likely to contribute to the affective aspects of stress disorders. Recent reports have identified cellular and molecular correlates of stress-induced amygdaloid plasticity that may underlie anxiety. Hence, we examined the impact of chronic stress, in terms of its duration, at the cellular and behavioral levels in rats. We found that, even after 21 days of stress-free recovery, animals exposed to chronic immobilization stress (CIS) continue to exhibit enhanced anxiety, as manifested by a significant reduction in open-arm exploration and risk-assessment behavior in the elevated plus-maze. At the cellular level, we tested if CIS-induced dendritic remodeling in the amygdala is also as long-lasting as enhanced anxiety after 21 days of recovery. Indeed, long-lasting facilitation of CIS-induced anxiety is accompanied by a persistent increase in dendritic arborization of basolateral amygdala (BLA) spiny neurons. Moreover, CIS-induced BLA hypertrophy is distinct from hippocampal CA3 atrophy, which is reversible within the same period of stress-free recovery. These findings on persistent dendritic remodeling in the amygdala, in addition to highlighting important differences with hippocampal structural plasticity, may provide a cellular basis for examining anxiety and mood disorders triggered by chronic stress.
Local hemodynamics of the cerebral cortex is the basis of modern functional imaging techniques, such as fMRIand PET. Despite the importance of local regulation of the blood flow, capillary level quantification of cerebral blood flow has been limited by the spatial resolution of functional imaging techniques and the depth penetration of conventional optical microscopy. Two-photon laser scanning microscopic imaging technique has the necessary spatial resolution and can image capillaries in the depth of the cortex. We have loaded the serum with fluorescein isothiocyanate dextran and quantified the flow of red blood cells (RBCs) in capillaries in layers 2/3 of the mouse somatosensory cortex in vivo. Basal capillary flux was quantified as approximately 28.9+/-13.6 RBCs/s (n=50, mean+/-S.D.) under ketamine-xylazine anesthesia and 26.7+/-16.0 RBCs/s (n=31) under urethane anesthesia. Focal interictal (epileptiform) activity was induced by local infusion of bicuculline methochloride in the cortex. We have observed that capillary blood flow increased as the cortical local field events developed into epileptiform in the vicinity of GABA receptor blockade (&lt;300 microm from the administration site). Local blood flow in the interictal focus increased significantly (42.5+/-18.5RBCs/s, n=52) relative to the control conditions or to blood flow measured in capillaries at distant (&gt;1mm from the focus) sites from the epileptic focus (27.8+/-12.9 RBCs/s, n=30). These results show that hyper-synchronized neural activity is associated with increased capillary perfusion in a localized cortical area. This volume is significantly smaller than the currently available resolution of the fMRI signal.
The effects of a deletion for the brain derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) allele (+/- BDNF) upon age-related changes in nigrostriatal dopaminergic (NSDA) function were assessed. Behavioral (beam crossing and spontaneous activity) and neurochemical (potassium-stimulated dopamine release from superfused striatum) measures were compared among Young (4-5 month), Middle (11-13 month) and Aged (19-21 month) +/- BDNF and their wild type littermate control (+/+ BDNF) mice. No statistically significant differences were obtained between +/+ and +/- BDNF mice at the Young age sampling period for any of the behavioral or neurochemical measures. Behavioral and neurochemical responses indices of NSDA function begin to diverge between +/+ and +/- Middle age BDNF mice and maximal differences were observed at the Aged period. For both movement and stereotypy times, scores obtained from +/+ mice were significantly decreased compared with +/- BDNF mice at the Aged period and center time scores of +/+ mice were decreased at both the Middle and Aged periods compared with +/- BDNF mice. Neurochemically, potassium-stimulated DA release of +/+ mice was significantly greater than +/- BDNF mice with maximal differences obtained at the Aged period. These results demonstrate marked differences in age-related changes of NSDA function between +/+ and +/- BDNF mice and suggest that the deletion of one allele for BDNF may make these mice more susceptible to age-related declines in NSDA function.
The use of latent inhibition paradigms is one means of investigating the involvement of mesencephalic dopaminergic (DA) neurons in cognitive processes. We have shown recently that DA neurons reaching the core and the dorsomedial shell parts of the nucleus accumbens and the anterior part of the striatum are differentially involved in latent inhibition. In other respects, theoretical, behavioral and anatomo-functional data suggest that the entorhinal cortex (ENT) may control latent inhibition expression. In this study, using in vivo voltammetry in freely moving rats, we investigated the influence of the ENT on the DA responses obtained in the core and dorsomedial shell parts of the nucleus accumbens and the anterior part of the striatum. For this purpose a reversible inactivation of the left ENT was achieved by the local microinjection of tetrodotoxin, 3 h before pre-exposure to the conditional stimulus (banana odour). During the second session, animals were aversively conditioned to banana odour. Results obtained during the third session (test session), in animals submitted to the reversible blockade of the ENT before the first session were as follows: (1) pre-exposed conditioned animals displayed behavioral aversive responses; (2) where core DA responses were concerned, responses were situated between those observed in pre-exposed and non-pre-exposed conditioned animals; (3) by contrast, where the dorsomedial shell part of the nucleus accumbens and the anterior striatum were concerned, DA variations were not statistically different in pre-exposed and non-pre-exposed conditioned rats. These data suggest that the left ENT exerts a crucial influence over the latent-inhibition-related DA responses in the left dorsomedial shell part of the nucleus accumbens and the left anterior part of the striatum, whereas one or more other brain regions control DA variations in the left core part of the nucleus accumbens. These data may help us to understand the pathophysiology of schizophrenic psychoses.
We used magnetoencephalography to study effects of sleep on cortical responses to noxious stimuli and to clarify the mechanisms underlying pain perception. For a noxious stimulus, painful intra-epidermal electrical stimulation, which selectively activates A-delta fibers, was applied to the dorsum of the left hand. While awake, subjects were asked to count the number of stimuli silently (Attention) or ignore the stimuli (Control). During sleep, magnetic fields recorded in stage 1 sleep and stage 2 sleep were analyzed. One main component at a latency around 140-160 ms was identified in the awake condition. Multiple source analysis indicated that this main component was generated by activities in the contralateral primary somatosensory cortex (SI), bilateral secondary somatosensory cortex (SII) and insular cortex. The medial temporal area (MT) and cingulate cortex were activated later than the main component. Cortical responses in the contralateral SI, ipsilateral SII and MT, bilateral insula and cingulate cortex were significantly enhanced in Attention as compared with Control. The main component 1 M as well as later magnetic fields were markedly attenuated during sleep, suggesting that all these cortical areas are involved in pain cognition.
We hypothesized that glutamate (Glu) released from the peripheral terminals of primary afferents contributes to the generation of mechanical hyperalgesia following peripheral nerve injury. Nerve injury was performed on rats with a lumbar 5 spinal nerve lesion (L5 SNL), which was preceded by L5 dorsal rhizotomy (L5 DR) to avoid the potential central effects induced by L5 SNL through the L5 dorsal root. Mechanical hyperalgesia, as evidenced by a reduction in paw withdrawal threshold (PWT), was short-lasting (&lt;6 days) after L5 DR, but persistent (&gt;42 days) after L5 SNL preceded by L5 DR. When an intraplantar injection into the affected hind paw was given immediately before L5 SNL, non-competitive N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor antagonist MK-801 (20 nmol), group-I metabotropic Glu (mGlu) receptor antagonist DL-amino-3-phosphonopropionic acid (DL-AP3; 70 nmol), and selective group-II mGlu receptor agonist 4-aminopyrrolidine-2,4-dicarboxylate (APDC; 20 nmol) delayed the onset of PWT reduction for 1-4 days. However, this onset was not affected by alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methylisoxazole-4-propionic acid/kainate receptor antagonist 2,3-dioxo-6-nitro-1,2,3,4,-tetrahydrobenzo[f]quinoxaline-7-sulfonamide (NBQX; 100 nmol). When the same injection was given after L5 SNL-induced mechanical hyperalgesia had been established, MK-801 reversed the PWT reduction for 30-75 min, whereas NBQX, DL-AP3, or APDC had no effect. These results suggest that the manipulation of the peripheral Glu receptors reduces neuropathic pain, by blocking NMDA and group-I mGlu receptors and by stimulating group-II mGlu receptor during the induction phase of neuropathic pain, but only by blocking the NMDA receptor during its maintenance phase.
In order to investigate the role of erythropoietin (EPO) in the hippocampus, we studied the effect of EPO on nitric oxide (NO) production in the rat hippocampus using brain microdialysis. The dialysis probe was stereotaxically inserted into the rat hippocampus 24 h before the dialysis experiment. The perfusion fluid (Krebs-HEPES buffer, pH 7.4) was collected at 15-min intervals under freely moving conditions and NO metabolites (NOx) in the perfusate were immediately measured using a NOx-analyzing high performance liquid chromatography (HPLC)system. Following the collection of four fractions, 1 microl of EPO (10(-10) M, 10(-8) M and 10(-6) M) or vehicle (saline) was gently injected into the hippocampal tissue. The perfusion fluid was collected for 3 h after the injection. The NOx levels were unchanged by the injection of vehicle alone. After the injection of EPO, NOx levels gradually increased. The EPO-induced increase in NOx levels was significant at 10(-6) M EPO. The EPO-induced increases in NOx levels were eliminated in the presence of anti-EPO antibody. The increase in NOx levels induced by EPO was blunted by nicardipine, a Ca2+ channel blocker, but not by MK-801, an antagonist of N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptors. These findings, taken together, suggest that EPO increased NO production in the rat hippocampus by activating voltage-gated Ca2+ channels, but not through NMDA receptors.
Hepatocyte growth factor (HGF) promotes the survival and migration of immature neurons, but its role in the mature brain has remained elusive. In the hippocampus of juvenile rats, we found that the HGF receptor c-Met was expressed in neurons. Furthermore, it was highly Tyr-phosphorylated, more so than in the liver under normal conditions, suggesting that the receptor is activated and that HGF may act continuously in the intact brain. Exogenously applied HGF enhanced synaptic long-term potentiation (LTP) in the CA1 region of hippocampus, but did not affect long-term depression. We further found that HGF augmented N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor-mediated currents in both slices and dissociated neurons. This augmentation is likely to underlie the enhancement of LTP. Considering that the expression of both HGF and c-Met are known to be induced by ischemic stimuli, this modulation would provide a novel understanding of a neuronal regulatory systems shared with pathogenic ischemic states.
Human immunodeficiency virus (HIV)-1 within the CNS induces neuro-acquired immunodeficiency syndrome and acts as a reservoir for reinfection of peripheral tissues. HIV-1 crosses the blood-brain barrier (BBB) within infected immune cells and as cell-free virus by a CD4-independent mechanism. Which proteins control free virus transport across the BBB are unknown, but work with wheatgerm agglutinin (WGA) and heparin suggests that heparan sulfate proteoglycans, sialic acid, and N-acetyl-beta-D-glucosaminyl acid bind HIV-1. Here, we found that an HIV-1 T-tropic virus was taken up by mouse brain endothelial cells in vitro and crossed the BBB in vivo and could be effluxed as intact virus. Uptake was stimulated by WGA and protamine sulfate (PS) and inhibited by heparin. BBB uptake of virus involved four distinguishable binding sites: i) reversible cell surface binding involving gp120 and sensitive to PS/heparin but insensitive to WGA; internalization with a ii) WGA-sensitive site binding gp120 and iii) a PS/heparin-sensitive site not involving gp120; iv) membrane incorporation not affected by WGA, heparin, or PS. In conclusion, binding, internalization, and membrane incorporation are separately regulated steps likely determining whether HIV-1 is incorporated into brain endothelial cells, transported across them, or returned to the circulation.
I.v. injection of secretin activates neurons in brain areas controlling autonomic function and emotion. Peripheral administration of secretin inhibits gastric functions through a central mechanism that is mediated by vagal dependent pathways. We investigated whether the vagus nerve is involved in i.p. injection of secretin-induced brain neuronal activation in conscious rats as monitored by Fos immunohistochemistry. Secretin (40 or 100 microg/kg, i.p., 90 min) induced a dose-related increase in the number of Fos positive neurons in the central nucleus of the amygdala (CeA), and a plateau Fos response in the area postrema (AP), nucleus tractus solitarii (NTS), locus coeruleus (LC), Barrington's nucleus (Bar), external lateral subnucleus of parabrachial nucleus (PBel) and arcuate nucleus, and at 100 microg/kg, in the dorsal motor nucleus of the vagus (DMV) compared with i.p. injection of vehicle. Double immunohistochemistry showed that secretin (40 microg/kg, i.p.) activates tyrosine hydroxylase neurons in the NTS. Subdiaphragmatic vagotomy (7 days) abolished Fos expression-induced by i.p. secretin (40 microg/kg) in the NTS, DMV, LC, Bar, PBel and CeA, while a significant rise in the AP was maintained. In contrast, s.c. capsaicin (10 days) did not influence the Fos induction in the above nuclei. Reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) and quantitative real-time PCR showed that secretin receptor mRNA is expressed in the nodose ganglia and levels were higher in the right compared with the left ganglion. These results indicate that peripheral secretin activates catecholaminergic NTS neurons as well as neurons in medullary, pontine and limbic nuclei regulating autonomic functions and emotion through vagal-dependent capsaicin-resistant pathways. Secretin injected i.p. may signal to the brain by interacting with secretin receptors on vagal afferent as well as on AP neurons outside the blood-brain barrier.
Numerous clinical studies have indicated that lifetime anxiety is highly prevalent in drug addicts. In the treatment of drug abuse, dually diagnosed drug addicts may benefit from pharmacological intervention strategies that alleviate the psychiatric symptomatology. We have previously shown that rats with different coping strategies in a stressful environment show strong differences in the motivation to self-administer cocaine. That is, cocaine self-administration under a progressive ratio (PR) schedule of reinforcement was enhanced in high grooming (HG) rats as compared with low grooming (LG) rats. To identify the pharmacological basis of these differences, we tested the acute effects of several anxiolytic drugs on cocaine self-administration in HG and LG rats under a PR schedule of reinforcement. Chlordiazepoxide increased PR responding in both the HG and LG rats, while the selective corticotrophin releasing hormone 1 receptor antagonist R121919 had no effect on cocaine self-administration under the PR schedule. Interestingly, buspirone and fluoxetine decreased PR responding in HG rats only and thereby abolished the individual differences in PR responding between HG and LG rats. In support of the differential effects of the serotonergic drugs on PR responding in HG and LG rats, we found that the in vitro electrically evoked release of [3H]serotonin from mesocorticolimbic brain slices was reduced in the medial prefrontal cortex, substantia nigra and nucleus accumbens core, and increased in the nucleus accumbens shell of HG rats relative to LG rats. These findings show that serotonergic anxiolytics abolish the pre-existing individual differences in cocaine self-administration between HG and LG rats, which show differences in the reactivity of serotonergic neurons. This suggests that the effectiveness of pharmacological interference may depend on the neurochemical and motivational state of the individual.
We had previously demonstrated that continual-hypoxia stimulated corticotropin-releasing factor (CRF)mRNA in hypothalamus, and release of CRF, as well as enhancing plasma adrenocorticotropic-hormone and corticosterone of rats. The present study demonstrates using in situ autoradiography that CRF receptor 1 (CRFR1) and CRF receptor 2 (CRFR2) mRNA in the rat anterior pituitary is changed by intermittent hypoxia, cold, restraint, alone and in combination. Rats were exposed to intermittent hypoxia for 4 h/day during various periods in a hypobaric chamber. Hypoxia equivalent to an altitude of around 2 km (16.0% O2) or 5 km (10.8% O2) caused a biphasic change in both CRFR1 and R2 mRNA, there being an initial significant decline on day 1 and then an enhancement by day 2. The increase of both receptor subtypes mRNA was relatively well maintained up to 15 days in rats exposed to 2 km intermittently. CRFR2 mRNA in rats exposed to 5 km, after peaking at day 2 therefore declined and was not different to controls at 15 days. Five kilometer hypoxia markedly reduced body weight gain. The increased CRFR1 mRNA was also induced by restraint alone, hypoxia+restraint and hypoxia+cold but not by cold alone. The CRFR2 mRNA was significantly increased by all the stresses except for hypoxia+restraint. These results show that the acute response to intermittent hypoxia is a decrease in the CRF receptor mRNA whereas longer exposure to the three environmental stressors hypoxia, cold and restraint is needed to provoke an increase. This may have important consequences for adaptation to high altitude. The significant differences between the expression of CRFR1 mRNA and CRFR2 mRNA in response to the different stimuli might suggest that the two receptors in the pituitary play different roles in behavior.
During the stress response adrenal medullary chromaffin cells release catecholamines to the bloodstream. Voltage-activated calcium channels present in the cell membrane play a crucial role in this process. Although the electrophysiological and pharmacological properties of chromaffin cell calcium channels have been studied in detail, the molecular composition of these channels has not been defined yet. Another aspect that needs to be explored is the extent to which chromaffin cells in culture reflect the adrenal medulla calcium channel characteristics. In this sense, it has been described that catecholamine release in the intact adrenal gland recruits different calcium channels than those recruited during secretion from cultured chromaffin cells. Additionally, recent electrophysiological studies show that chromaffin cells in culture differ from those located in the intact adrenal medulla in the contribution of several calcium channel types to the whole cell current. However there is not yet any study that compares the population of calcium channels in chromaffin cells with that one present in the adrenal medulla. In order to gain some insight into the roles that calcium channels might play in the adrenal medullary cells we have analyzed the alpha1 subunit mRNA expression profile. We demonstrate that the expression pattern of voltage-dependent calcium channels in cultured bovine chromaffin cells markedly differs from that found in the native adrenal medulla and that glucocorticoids are only partially involved in those differences. Additionally, we show, for the first time, that the cardiac isoform of L-type calcium channel is present in both bovine adrenal medulla and cultured chromaffin cells and that its levels of expression do not vary during culture.
Cytochrome c oxidase (COX) complex is built up with both nucleus- and mitochondrion-encoded subunits. Biogenesis and assembly of the complex thus requires fine cross-talk between the two compartments. In order to shed light on the regulation of nuclear-mitochondrial interactions, we studied the expression of COXIII (mitochondrion-encoded) and COXIV (nucleus-encoded) in adult rat tissues and rat developing brain. We found that the levels of COXIV protein and mRNA are not linearly related, thus suggesting a post-transcriptional mode of regulation. In agreement with this observation, we report the presence of a protein that specifically binds to the 3'-untranslated region of COXIV mRNA. This factor, that forms with RNA a complex of about 60 kDa, is present both in the cytoplasm and mitochondria, where its concentration decreases throughout development with inverse correlation with COXIV accumulation. Interestingly, using an antibody raised in our laboratory, we found that, in developing rat brain, COXIII does not localize exclusively to mitochondria, but is also present in the cytosol, where it could exert a yet unknown regulatory role.
Changes in the amyloid-peptide (Abeta), neuronal and inducible nitric oxide (NO)synthase (nNOS, iNOS), nitrotyrosine, glial fibrillary acidic protein, and lectin from Lycopersicon esculentum (tomato) were investigated in the cerebral cortex of transgenic mice (Tg2576) to amyloid precursor protein (APP), by immunohistochemistry (bright light, confocal, and electron microscopy). The expression of nitrergic proteins and synthesis of nitric oxide were analyzed by immunoblotting and NOS activity assays, respectively. The cerebral cortex of these transgenic mice showed an age-dependent progressive increase in intraneuronal aggregates of Abeta-peptide and extracellular formation of senile plaques surrounded by numerous microglial and reactive astrocytes. Basically, no changes to nNOS reactivity or expression were found in the cortical mantle of either wild or transgenic mice. This reactivity in wild mice corresponded to numerous large type I and small type II neurons. The transgenic mice showed swollen, twisted, and hypertrophic preterminal and terminal processes of type I neurons, and an increase of the type II neurons. The calcium-dependent NOS enzymatic activity was higher in wild than in the transgenic mice. The iNOS reactivity, expression and calcium-independent enzymatic activity increased in transgenic mice with respect to wild mice, and were related to cortical neurons and microglial cells. The progressive elevation of NO production resulted in a specific pattern of protein nitration in reactive astrocytes. The ultrastructural study carried out in the cortical mantle showed that the neurons contained intracellular aggregates of Abeta-peptide associated with the endoplasmic reticulum, mitochondria, and Golgi apparatus. The endothelial vascular cells also contained Abeta-peptide deposits. This transgenic model might contribute to understand the role of the nitrergic system in the biological changes related to neuropathological progression of Alzheimer's disease.
Cystatin C is distributed in all human tissues and fluids with a particular abundance in the cerebrospinal fluid. Cystatin C is a strong endogenous inhibitor of lysosomal cysteine proteases, such as cathepsin B, L, H and S, that are involved in various biological processes such as degradation of cellular proteins and regulation of enzymes, as well as in pathological processes. Pharmacological inhibition of cathepsins has been shown to reduce neuronal damage after brain ischemia, suggesting that cystatin C is an endogenous neuroprotectant. Cystatin C has also amyloidogenic properties and is co-localized with beta-amyloid in degenerated neurons in Alzheimer's disease, suggesting a role in neuronal degeneration. To test the hypothesis that endogenous cystatin C is neuroprotective during brain ischemia, global and focal brain ischemia was induced in mice with the cystatin C gene knocked out. Following focal ischemia, larger brain infarcts were found in cystatin C knockout mice, probably due to a reduced inhibition of the cathepsins during ischemia. In contrast, brain damage after global ischemia was diminished in cystatin C knockout mice, suggesting that cystatin C has an aggravating effect on selective neuronal damage after global ischemia.
Sensory neurons intrinsic to the wall of the intestine receive input from stimuli in the lumen. These stimuli interact with the mucosal epithelium causing release of sensory mediators that depolarize the sensory nerve terminals. The depolarization and the subsequent pattern of action potential (AP) discharge controls the type and magnitude of the reflex evoked. The characteristics of this AP discharge were investigated in 60 intrinsic sensory neurons from the myenteric plexus of the guinea-pig ileum. Intracellular electrophysiological recordings were made from neurons near intact mucosa during electrical stimulation of the mucosa and/or neuronal soma. Most neurons (87%) responded to mucosal stimulation with a burst of 3.8+/-0.3 APs (average instantaneous frequency, fINT 39+/-4 Hz). In 38%, a somatically evoked AP triggered a similar burst of 2.9+/-0.3 APs (fINT 52+/-6 Hz) while in 50% of neurons, there was ongoing spontaneous bursting (3.8+/-0.2 APs, fINT 48+/-6 Hz). APs in all of these bursts had an inflection on the rising phase and they persisted during somatic hyperpolarization indicating they were generated in a distal process rather than the soma. Collision experiments confirmed this and suggested that bursts originated near the mucosal sensory nerve terminals. A reduction in membrane excitability reduced the number of APs in a burst suggesting a brief depolarizing event, such as a voltage- or ligand-gated ion channel, was responsible. Bursting behavior in the intrinsic sensory neurons is common for mucosal stimuli and may involve a novel transmitter acting at the sensory nerve terminal. Further, some bursting involves positive feedback between the nerve terminals and other elements in the epithelium. This is a novel and potentially important component of intestinal sensory transduction.
By reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction, Southern blot analysis, direct sequencing, and immunohistochemistry, we studied the expression of cholinergic neuronal markers (choline acetyltransferase [ChAT], vesicular acetylcholine transporter [VAChT], and a high-affinity choline transporter [CHT1]), and gene regulatory molecules (repressor element-1 silencing transcription factor/neuron-restrictive silencer factor [REST/NRSF] and CoREST) in the human spinal cord and term placenta, both of which are well known to contain cells synthesizing acetylcholine. H-type, M-type, N2-type, and R-type ChAT mRNAs, VAChT mRNA, and CHT1 mRNA were detected in the spinal cord, but only H-type, M-type, and N2-type ChAT mRNAs, in the term placenta. REST/NRSF and CoREST were detected in the spinal cord and the placenta, but the amounts of both mRNAs were greater in the placenta than in the spinal cord. Further microdissection analyses revealed that the placental trophoblastic cells contained more REST/NRSF and CoREST transcripts than the spinal large motor neurons. Large motor neurons in the anterior horn of the spinal cord were immunohistochemically stained for ChAT and VAChT. In the placenta, stromal fibroblasts, endothelial cells, and trophoblastic cells of the chorionic villi were positively stained with anti-ChAT antibody but not with anti-VAChT antibody. These findings suggest that transcriptions of the R-type ChAT and VAChT mRNAs are coordinately suppressed in the human term placenta, which might be regulated in part by a REST/NRSF complex that binds to a consensus sequence of repressor element 1/neuron-restrictive silencer element (RE1/NRSE) in the 5' region upstream from exon R, whereas transcriptions of the H-type, M-type, and N2-type ChAT mRNAs might be independent of control by RE1/NRSE. It is possible that at least two separate regulatory mechanisms of gene expression are present for the human cholinergic gene locus, which might be selected by different combinations of DNA motifs and binding proteins to function in neuronal and non-neuronal cells.
Aquaporin 9 (AQP9) is a recently cloned water channel that is permeable to monocarboxylate, glycerol and urea. In rat, AQP9 has been found in testis and liver as well as in brain where its expression has been initially shown in glial cells in forebrain. However, the expression of AQP9 has not been investigated in the brainstem. The purpose of this study is to describe the distribution of AQP9-immunoreactive cells throughout the adult rat brain using reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR), Western blot and immunohistochemistry. We performed immunolabeling on brain from animals perfused with fixative and we show that AQP9 is expressed (i) in astrocytes in the glia limitans, in the white matter and in glial cells of the cerebellum, (ii) in the endothelial cells of pial vessels, and (iii) in specific groups of neurons. The neuronal AQP9 expression was almost exclusively observed in catecholaminergic cells including the adrenergic, noradrenergic and dopaminergic groups, but not in other monoaminergic neurons such as serotonergic or histaminergic cells. A slight labeling was also observed in non-catecholaminergic neurons localized in the paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus. These results indicate that AQP9 has a unique brain distribution with a preferential localization in catecholaminergic nuclei known to be involved in many cerebral functions. While the presence of AQP9 in glia limitans and in endothelial cells of the pial vessels could be related to water transport through the blood-brain barrier, its expression in neuronal cells, not directly involved in the osmoregulation, suggests that brain AQP9 could also be used as a metabolite channel since lactate and glycerol can be energy substrates for neurons.
Repeated nonreinforced preexposure to a stimulus interferes with the establishment of conditioned responding to this stimulus when it is subsequently paired with reinforcement. This stimulus-preexposure effect is known as latent inhibition (LI). Rather remarkably, LI appears to be resistant to the effects of numerous lesions, including the prefrontal cortex (PFC) and the basolateral amygdala (BLA). However, intact behavioral expression of LI following damage to given brain regions does not preclude the possibility that such regions participate in the regulation of LI expression in the intact brain. The present study showed that lesions of the BLA and the orbitofrontal cortex (OFC) but not of the medial PFC (mPFC) led to an abnormally persistent LI which emerged under conditions that disrupted LI in control rats. LI was measured in a thirst motivated conditioned emotional response procedure by comparing suppression of drinking in response to a tone in rats which received 0 (nonpreexposed) or 40 tone presentations (preexposed) followed by either two or five tone-shock pairings. Control rats showed LI with 40 preexposures and two conditioning trials, but raising the number of conditioning trials to five disrupted LI. OFC- and BLA-lesioned rats showed LI under the former condition but in addition persisted in exhibiting LI under the latter condition. Rats with lesion of the mPFC did not show persistent LI. Thus, although LI does not depend on the integrity of BLA and OFC (because it is present in BLA- and OFC- lesioned rats even under conditions disrupting the phenomenon in normal rats), these regions play an important role in the modulation of its expression, more specifically, in the control of the non-expression of LI when the impact of conditioning increases beyond a certain level.
The bed nucleus of the stria terminalis (BNST) is believed to be a critical relay between the central nucleus of the amygdala (CE) and the paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus in the control of hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) responses elicited by conditioned fear stimuli. If correct, lesions of CE or BNST should block expression of HPA responses elicited by either a specific conditioned fear cue or a conditioned context. To test this, rats were subjected to cued (tone) or contextual classical fear conditioning. Two days later, electrolytic or sham lesions were placed in CE or BNST. After 5 days, the rats were tested for both behavioral (freezing) and neuroendocrine (corticosterone) responses to tone or contextual cues. CE lesions attenuated conditioned freezing and corticosterone responses to both tone and context. In contrast, BNST lesions attenuated these responses to contextual but not tone stimuli. These results suggest CE is indeed an essential output of the amygdala for the expression of conditioned fear responses, including HPA responses, regardless of the nature of the conditioned stimulus. However, because lesions of BNST only affected behavioral and endocrine responses to contextual stimuli, the results do not support the notion that BNST is critical for HPA responses elicited by conditioned fear stimuli in general. Instead, the BNST may be essential specifically for contextual conditioned fear responses, including both behavioral and HPA responses, by virtue of its connections with the hippocampus, a structure essential to contextual conditioning. The results are also not consistent with the hypothesis that BNST is only involved in unconditioned aspects of fear and anxiety.
Neuroimmunophilin ligands (NILs) are drugs derived from the immunosuppressant FK506 (tacrolimus) that have been shown to have variable efficacy in reversing neuronal degeneration and preventing cell death. In a wide range of animal models mimicking Parkinson's disease, dementia and even surgical nerve damage they induce re-sprouting, are neurotrophic or prevent nerve damage. The neurotrophic mechanism of action of these compounds is not known and may be dependent on the type of damage and genetic variability at the species or cellular level. Some evidence suggests that NILs may act through a family of proteins called FK506 binding proteins, some of which may regulate steroid hormone receptors. Other evidence suggests that NILs may protect neurons by upregulating the antioxidant glutathione and stimulating nerve regrowth by inducing the production of neurotrophic factors. Initial clinical trials have had mixed success. In one, patients with moderately severe Parkinson's disease showed no overall improvement in fine motor skills following 6 months of treatment by the neuroimmunophilin GPI 1485. But these patients did exhibit decreased loss of dopaminergic nerve terminals with a low dose of GPI 1485 and in fact some increase in dopaminergic terminals within 6 months of the higher dose of GPI 1485 drug treatment. As a result, a second phase II clinical trial using a patient population with less severe degeneration has been initiated concurrent with an investigation of GPI 1485 and other neuroprotective therapies funded by the National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke. Another clinical trial ongoing at this time is exploring the use of a neuroimmunophilin ligand to prevent nerve degeneration and erectile dysfunction resulting from prostatectomy. In summary, neuroimmunophilins show promise to reverse some forms of neurodegeneration but exact factors that predict outcome have not been identified.
Epileptic seizures are characterized by abnormal electrical discharge. In previous studies we established a powerful antiepileptic action for a commonly used diuretic (furosemide). However, it remains unclear precisely how furosemide terminates abnormal electrical discharges. To address this issue, we performed in vitro experiments to examine conditions where furosemide exerts antiepileptic activity and patch-clamp studies to analyze the effect of furosemide on neuronal membrane properties, synaptic function and inward potassium current. Furosemide was not found to alter synaptic field responses, excitatory postsynaptic currents or intrinsic membrane properties of principal hippocampal neurons. Our in vitro studies indicate that furosemide does not abolish spontaneous epileptiform bursting during co-application of Ba2+ or Cs+ ions (to block inwardly rectifying potassium channels). Our patch-clamp data indicate that furosemide enhances the function of astrocytic, but not neuronal, inward potassium channels and that this modulation may be required for its antiepileptic activity. Although a variety of antiepileptic drugs are already available, none of these compounds selectively target astrocytes while preserving synaptic/neuronal function. Thus, furosemide-mediated modulation of inward potassium current (on astrocytes) represents a new target for control of abnormal electrical discharge in the CNS.
This study investigated whether estradiol influenced the survival of new granule neurons, independent of altering cell proliferation, in the adult rodent dentate gyrus and whether estradiol-induced changes in new neuron number relate to any observed changes in hippocampus-dependent behavior. To test whether estradiol specifically promotes the survival of new neurons we injected castrated adult male meadow voles with the cell synthesis marker bromodeoxyuridine (BrdU; 50 mg/kg) twice on day 0 and then injected either estradiol (10 microg) or vehicle for 5 consecutive days either over days 1-5, days 6-10 or days 11-15 and perfused them on day 16. Estradiol doubled the number of hippocampal BrdU-labeled neurons but only when administered during a discrete period (days 6-10; P&lt; or =0.01) when most new neurons extend their axons [J Comp Neurol 413 (1999) 146]. To test whether the estradiol-induced increase in new neuron number was related to hippocampus-dependent behavior, males were injected with BrdU twice on day 0 and with estradiol or vehicle over days 6-10 before standard Morris water maze training commenced on day 16, 5 days after the final hormone injection. As in the first study, estradiol-treated males had more BrdU-labeled cells than vehicle-treated males. On a probe trial, estradiol-treated males spent significantly more time in the training quadrant than vehicle-treated males despite similar performance between groups during acquisition and reversal training trials. Thus estradiol enhanced the survival of young neurons but only when administered during their 'axon extension' phase and this effect was related to better spatial memory in male voles.
The carotid body is a major arterial chemoreceptor that senses low O2 tension, high CO2 tension and low pH in the arterial blood. It is generally believed that neurotransmitters, including acetylcholine (ACh), participate in the genesis of afferent neural output from the carotid body and modulate the function of chemoreceptor cells (glomus cells). Previous pharmacological studies suggest that M1 and M2 muscarinic ACh receptors (mAChRs) are involved in these processes. This study was designed to demonstrate the presence and localization of M1 and M2 mAChRs in the carotid body and in the petrosal ganglion of the cat. Since DNA sequences of the cat M1 and M2 mAChRs were not known, we first determined partial DNA sequences. These sequences and deduced amino acid sequences highly resembled those of human and the rat. Subsequent reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR)analysis has demonstrated that mRNAs for M1 and M2 mAChRs are present in the carotid body and the petrosal ganglion of the cat. Immunohistochemistry has indicated that the localization of these receptors appears different. Immunoreactivity for M1 mAChR was strong in nerves in the carotid body. Nerve endings positively stained for M1 mAChR appear to innervate glomus cells. Weak staining for M1 mAChRs was seen in glomus cells. On the other hand, M2 receptor protein seems to be present in glomus cells but not on nerve endings. One third of the neurons in the petrosal ganglion showed immunoreactivity for M1 mAChR. Many neurons and nerve fibers in the petrosal ganglion expressed M2 mAChR immunoreactivity. The results were consistent with previous pharmacological studies. Thus, activation of M1 mAChRs on afferent nerve endings may be linked to the increase in neural output during hypoxia. Further, M1 and M2 mAChRs on glomus cells modulate the release of neurotransmitters.
Superior olivary complex (SOC) neurons receive excitatory and inhibitory inputs from both ears. We determined the nature of such inputs to the main SOC nuclei with an optical imaging system. To do so, brainstem slices of postnatal (P) rats (P3-13) were treated with the fast voltage-sensitive dye RH795, and ipsilateral and contralateral SOC inputs were activated electrically. Optical signals, equivalent to membrane potential changes, were detected by a 464-photodiode array. The signals consisted mostly of two components which were identified as pre- and postsynaptic potentials in experiments with Ca2+-free solutions. They correlated with morphological structures, i.e. the presynaptic components were prominent in neuropil regions whereas the postsynaptic components dominated in somata regions. Postsynaptic components were distinguished pharmacologically with the glycine receptor blocker strychnine and the alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionate (AMPA)/kainate receptor blocker 6-cyano-7-nitroquinoxaline-2,3-dione (CNQX). Concerning the lateral superior olive, we confirmed the known glutamatergic inputs from the ipsilateral side and the glycinergic inputs from the ipsilateral and contralateral sides. Furthermore, we identified a CNQX-sensitive input from the contralateral side. In the medial superior olive, we corroborated the glutamatergic and glycinergic inputs from the ipsilateral and contralateral sides. Both ipsi- and contralaterally, the glutamatergic input was more pronounced than the glycinergic input. In the superior paraolivary nucleus, we also identified ipsilateral and contralateral inputs. Besides the known glycinergic input from the contralateral side, we found a novel glycinergic input from the ipsilateral side and identified CNQX-sensitive inputs from the contralateral and ipsilateral sides. The latter was very weak and appeared only in 30% of the experiments. The data show the feasibility of identifying functional inputs to the SOC with voltage-sensitive dye recordings.
Polyimide regenerative electrodes (RE) constitute a promising neural interface to selectively stimulate regenerating fibers in injured nerves. The characteristics of the regeneration through an implanted RE, however, are only beginning to be established. It was recently shown that the number of myelinated fibers distal to the implant reached control values 7 months postimplant; however, the functional recovery remained substantially below normal [J Biomed Mater Res 60 (2002) 517]. In this study we sought to determine the magnitude, and possible selectivity, of axonal regeneration through the RE by counting sensory and motor neurons that were retrogradely labeled from double tracer deposits in the sciatic nerve. Adult rats had their right sciatic nerves transected, and the stumps were placed in silicone tubes; some simply were filled with saline (Tube group), and others held a RE in its center (RE group). Simultaneously, the proximal stump was exposed to Diamidino Yellow. Two months later the nerves were bilaterally excised distal to the implant, and exposed to Fast Blue. Electrophysiological recordings, and skin nociceptive responses confirmed previous findings of partial functional recovery. In controls, an average of 20,000 and 3080 neurons were labeled in L4-L5 dorsal root ganglia (with minor contributions from L3 and/or L6), and in the ventral horn of the lumbar spinal cord, respectively. In the regenerating side, 35% of the DRG neurons were double-labeled, without differences between groups. In contrast, only 7.5% of motoneurons were double-labeled in the RE group, vs. 21% in the Tube group. Moreover, smaller ganglion cells regenerated better than large neurons by a significant 13.8%. These results indicate that the RE is not an obstacle for the re-growth of sensory fibers, but partially hinders fiber regeneration from motoneurons. They also suggest that fine fibers may be at an advantage over large ones to regenerate through the RE.
Recent studies indicate that brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) may be implicated in the clinical action of antidepressant drugs. Repeated (2-3 weeks) administration of antidepressant drugs increases BDNF gene expression. The onset of this response as well as concomitant effects on the corresponding BDNF protein is however, unclear. The present study investigated the effects of acute and chronic administration of the selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor, fluoxetine (10mg/kg p.o.), upon regional rat brain levels of BDNF mRNA and protein expression. To improve the clinical significance of the study, fluoxetine was administered orally and mRNA and protein levels were determined ex vivo using the techniques of in situ hybridisation histochemistry and immunocytochemistry respectively. Direct measurement of BDNF protein was also carried out using enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA). Four days of once daily oral administration of fluoxetine induced decreases in BDNF mRNA (hippocampus, medial habenular and paraventricular thalamic nuclei). Whilst 7 days of treatment showed a non-significant increase in BDNF mRNA, there were marked and region-specific increases following 14 days of treatment. BDNF protein levels remained unaltered until 21 days of fluoxetine treatment, when the numbers of BDNF immunoreactive cells were increased, reaching significance in the pyramidal cell layer of CA1 and CA3 regions of Ammon's horn (CA1 and CA3) but not in the other sub-regions of the hippocampus. Indicative of the highly regional change within the hippocampus, the ELISA method failed to demonstrate significant up-regulation at 21 days, measuring levels of BDNF protein in the whole hippocampus. In contrast to the detected time dependent and biphasic response of the BDNF gene, activity-regulated, cytoskeletal-associated protein (Arc) mRNA showed a gradual increase during the 14-day course of treatment. The results presented here show that BDNF is expressed differentially depending on length of fluoxetine administration, which could contribute in explaining the slow onset of antidepressant activity observed with selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors.
The anteriorlateral bed nucleus of the stria terminalis (BNST AL) and the serotonergic system are believed to modulate behavioral responses to stressful and/or anxiogenic stimuli. However, although the BNST AL receives heavy serotonergic innervation, the functional significance of this input is not known. Data obtained from in vitro whole-cell patch clamp recording in the rat BNST slice show that exogenous application of 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT) evoked a heterogeneous response in BNST AL neurons. The principal action of 5-HT in this region was inhibitory, evoking a membrane hyperpolarization (5-HTHyp) and a concomitant reduction in input resistance in the majority of neurons tested. The broad-spectrum 5-HT1 agonist, 5-carboxamindotryptamine (5-CT), but not R(+/-)8-hydroxydipropylaminotetralin hydrobromide (8-OH-DPAT), mimicked the 5-HTHyp response in the BNST. Moreover, the outward current mediating 5-HTHyp was inwardly rectifying and sensitive to the G protein activated inwardly rectifying K+ (G IRK) channel blocker, tertiapin-Q. In the CNS 5-HT1A receptors are thought to couple to GIRK channels, suggesting that 5-HTHyp in BNST AL neurons was mediated by activation of 5-HT1A-like receptors. This was confirmed by the blockade of both 5-HTHyp and 5-CTHyp by the specific 5-HT1A receptor antagonist N-[2-[4-(2-methoxyphenyl)-1-piperazinyl]ethyl]-N-2-pyridinylcyclohexanecarboxamide maleate salt (WAY100635 200nM). Furthermore, an in vivo examination of the functional consequences of 5-HT1A-like induced inhibition of BNST neurons revealed that infusion of 5-CT into the BNST significantly reduced the acoustic startle response, without affecting the general motor activity of the animals. These data point to the possibility that 5-HT1A mediated inhibition of the BNST AL could contribute to an anxiolytic action. Hence, we propose that in response to stressful stimuli, enhanced levels of 5-HT in the BNST AL plays a critical homeostatic role in feedback inhibition of the anxiogenic response to these stimuli.
Ligands of the mu-opioid receptor are known to inhibit nociceptive transmission in the dorsal horn, yet the cellular site(s) of action for this inhibition remain to be fully elucidated. Neurons located in lamina I of the dorsal horn are involved in distinct aspects of nociceptive transmission. Neurons projecting to the thalamus are thought to be involved in sensory-discriminative aspects of pain perception, while neurons projecting to the parabrachial nucleus are thought to be important for emotional and/or autonomic responses to noxious stimuli. The present study examined these two populations of lamina I projection neurons in the trigeminal dorsal horn to determine if the mu-opioid receptor protein (MOR1) is differentially located in these populations of neurons. Lamina I projection neurons were identified using the retrograde tracer FluoroGold (FGold). FGold was injected into either the contralateral thalamus (ventral posterolateral (VPM)/ventral posterolateral (VPL) thalamic region) or into the ipsilateral parabrachial nuclei. The distribution of MOR1 in these neurons was determined using immunocytochemistry. The distribution of MOR1-ir within these two populations of lamina I projection neurons was examined by both confocal and electron microscopy. We found that both populations of projection neurons contained MOR1. Immunogold analyses revealed the presence of MOR1-ir at membrane sites and within the cytoplasm of these neurons. Cytoplasmic receptor labeling may represent sites of synthesis, recycling or reserve populations of receptors. MOR1 was primarily found in the somata and proximal dendrites of projection neurons. In addition, these neurons rarely received synaptic input from MOR1-containing axon terminals. These results indicate that lamina I neurons in trigeminal dorsal horn that project to the thalamic and parabrachial nuclei contain MOR1 and are likely sites of action for MOR ligands that modulate sensory and/or autonomic aspects of pain transmission in the trigeminal dorsal horn.
Niemann-Pick disease type C (NP-C) is an inherited disorder that is characterized biochemically by cellular cholesterol and glycolipid storage, and clinically by progressive neurodegeneration. Most cases of NP-C are caused by inactivating mutations of the npc1 gene, but about 5% are linked to npc2, which encodes a soluble cholesterol binding protein, previously identified as epididymal secretory glycoprotein 1 (HE1). The present study was carried out to investigate the immunocytochemical localization of HE1/NPC2 protein in the mouse brain. Using an antibody against recombinant HE1/NPC2, we found HE1/NPC2 to be localized predominantly in neurons in the brain. Immunoreactivity for HE1/NPC2 was observed in pyramidal or projection neurons in the cerebral cortex and amygdala, and Purkinje neurons in the cerebellum. Neurons in the thalamus, hypothalamus, and globus pallidus were lightly labeled, or unlabeled. This regional pattern of expression of HE1/NPC2 is similar to our previous findings with NPC1, with a low level of expression of both NPC1 and HE1/NPC2 proteins in regions derived from the diencephalon, such as the thalamus and hypothalamus. In contrast to NPC1, however, which is predominantly in astrocytes, HE1/NPC2 was observed mainly in neurons. Electron microscopic immunocytochemistry showed that HE1/NPC2 is present in the cytosol of dendrites and on post-synaptic densities (PSD). The occurrence of HE1/NPC2 in the PSD was confirmed by Western blots of PSD-enriched brain subcellular fractions that showed the presence of HE1/NPC2 together with the PSD-associated protein, PSD-95. These results suggest that NPC1 and HE1/NPC2 are differentially enriched in astrocytes and neurons, respectively, and that HE1/NPC2 may function in supporting the integrity of the PSD of neurons.
Small-diameter sensory neurons are key contributors in joint pain and have been implicated in the pathogenesis of rheumatoid arthritis (RA). Small-diameter sensory neurons can be separated into at least two distinct populations, which include isolectin B4 (IB4)-binding and tyrosine receptor kinase (trk) A-expressing. While trkA-expressing neurons have been identified in the rat knee joint there are no data, we are aware of, to suggest that IB4-binding neurons are also present. We aimed to determine whether or not there exists a population of IB4-binding neurons in the rat knee joint. Retrograde nerve tracing with fluoro-gold (FG) was used to identify the complete population of knee joint afferents in the lumbar dorsal root ganglia (DRG) L3 and L4 of female Wistar rats. IB4 conjugated to fluorescein isothiocyanate (FITC) was used to identify the cell bodies of IB4-binding neurons in the DRG. Of 1096 FG-labeled cell bodies in the DRG of knee joint injected animals (n=4), none were double labeled with FITC. Injection of FG into skin over the medial aspect of the rat knee (n=3) showed 48% of these cutaneous afferents in L3 and L4 DRG were double-labeled with FG and FITC. A complete absence of IB4-binding neurons in the rat knee joint makes it unlikely that this predominantly cutaneous, IB4-binding population of afferent neurons could have any significant influence in chronic inflammatory joint disease. This suggests that trkA-expressing neurons are the sole population of small-diameter sensory neurons in the knee joint and implies a significant role for these afferents in the progression of RA.
We have shown previously that reducing gas exchange to chick embryos by half wrapping eggs with an impermeable membrane from either days 14-18 (W14-18) or days 10-18 (W10-18) of the 21 day incubation results in post-hatch memory deficits. In the W10-18 chicks, short-term memory following training is impaired, whereas in the W14-18 chicks, memory is intact for 30 min but does not consolidate into long-term storage. The reduction in gas exchange caused by half wrapping eggs resulted in alterations in hematocrit, O2 and CO2 tensions suggesting that the embryos are hypoxic and hypercapnic. Our aim was to test the hypothesis that increases in circulating levels of catecholamines in ovo, as a result of hypoxia, lead to a disturbance of the central noradrenergic pathways resulting in cognitive impairment. Noradrenaline is critical for memory consolidation and a disturbance during development could compromise cognitive ability. In the present study, plasma noradrenaline levels were significantly elevated compared with control levels 2 days after hatch in W14-18 chicks. There was also a decrease in tissue noradrenaline concentration in the anterior forebrain in both W14-18 and W10-18 chicks. The differential ability of centrally administered beta2- and beta3-adrenoceptor agonists to overcome the memory deficit post-training, suggests altered responsiveness of central beta2-adrenoceptors to noradrenaline in W14-18 chicks. By comparing the W10-18 and W14-18 chicks with those from eggs wrapped from W10-14 we show that it is the timing of the prenatal hypoxia, rather than its duration, that determines the nature of cognitive dysfunction. We conclude that prenatal hypoxia induced by restriction of gas exchange can disrupt or alter central noradrenergic transmission causing cognitive impairment.
Synaptosomal-associated protein of 25 kDa (SNAP-25) regulates various membrane fusion processes including exocytosis by endocrine and neural cells. To increase our understanding of the occurrence and regulation of SNAP-25 isoforms, we identified and characterized SNAP-25a and SNAP-25b mRNAs in the pituitary gland and brain of the amphibian Xenopus laevis. The proteins are strongly conserved and are resistant to botulinum neurotoxin A but not to botulinum neurotoxin E, as shown by Western blotting. The spatial distribution of the two SNAP-25 isoforms was assessed with in situ hybridization. Both SNAP-25a mRNA and SNAP-25b mRNA reside in cells in the pituitary distal lobe and, particularly, in the endocrine melanotrope cells in the pituitary intermediate lobe. The melanotrope cells are involved in the background adaptation process of the skin by releasing alpha-melanophore-stimulating hormone. Quantitation of the respective in situ hybridization signals in the Xenopus pars intermedia indicated a differential response, SNAP-25b mRNA being more highly expressed in black-adapted animals than SNAP-25a mRNA, and more than in white-adapted toads. This differential upregulation was also studied by real-time reverse transcriptase polymerase chain reaction, showing that in the intermediate pituitary lobe, both isoforms are physiologically controlled by the background light intensity stimulus, but with different intensities; in black-adapted animals SNAP-25b mRNA is upregulated by 3.33 times compared with white-adapted animals, but SNAP-25a only by 1.96 times. As to neural tissue, in situ hybridization showed that both isoforms coexist throughout the brain, sometimes with similar strengths, but in various areas either SNAP-25a mRNA or SNAP-25b mRNA expression is prevalent. It is speculated that each of the SNAP-25 isoforms in the Xenopus pituitary and brain has a distinct function in cellular fusion processes including secretion, and that their occurrence and regulation depend on the type of secreted neurotransmitter/hormone and/or the activity state of the cell.
Previous studies have revealed that the expression pattern of the neurokinin 1 receptor (the preferred receptor for substance P, SP) varies in different mammalian retinas. We investigated NK1 receptor expression in the mouse retina to provide background information for future studies in transgenic mice on SP functional roles in the retina. Mouse retinal sections were treated for single and double-label immunofluorescence. NK1 receptor immunoreactivity was in bipolar cells and in numerous amacrine cells. Double-label studies showed that NK1 receptor-expressing bipolar cells constituted a population of ON-type cone bipolar cells, since they were distinct from rod bipolar cells and contained glycine. They were nonrandomly distributed with highest density in central retina. These cells were similar and may correspond to the population of NK1 receptor-expressing bipolar cells of the rabbit retina. Different subsets of NK1 receptor-expressing amacrine cells were identified on the basis of the expression of selected neurotransmitter substances: i) about 23% of NK1 receptor-expressing amacrine cells also contained glycine; ii) the remaining 77% were likely to be GABAergic, although some inconsistency was observed in the GABA immunostaining obtained with two different GABA antibodies; iii) all dopaminergic amacrine cells also expressed NK1 receptors; iv) about one third of SP-containing amacrine cells also expressed NK1 receptors. These findings confirm and expand previous observations in rat and rabbit retinas. In particular, common to all three species is the expression of NK1 receptors in dopaminergic amacrine cells, indicating that SP neurotransmission may be a universal feature of the circuitry of the dopaminergic amacrine cell. Peculiar to the mouse retina is the presence of putative NK1 autoreceptors expressed by SP-containing amacrine cells.
In the previous study, we observed chronological alterations of glutamic acid decarboxylase (GAD), which is the enzyme converting glutamate into GABA. GAD isoforms (GAD65 and GAD67) differ substantially in their interactions with cofactor pyridoxal 5'-phosphate, which is catalyzed by pyridoxal kinase (PLK). In the present study, we examined the chronological changes of PLK expression and activity in the hippocampus after 5 min transient forebrain ischemia in gerbils. PLK immunoreactivity in the sham-operated group was detected weakly in the hippocampus. Ischemia-related change of PLK immunoreactivity in the hippocampus was significant in the hippocampal cornu ammonis (CA1)region, not in the hippocampal CA2/3 region and dentate gyrus. PLK immunoreactivity was observed in non-pyramidal GABAergic neurons at 30 min to 3 h after ischemic insult. At 12 h after ischemic insult, PLK immunoreactivity was shown in many CA1 pyramidal cells as well as some non-pyramidal cells. At this time point, PLK immunoreactivity and protein content was highest after ischemia. Thereafter, PLK immunoreactivity and protein content is decreased time-dependently by 4 days after ischemic insult. Four days after ischemia, some astrocytes expressed PLK in the CA1 region. The specific PLK activity was not altered following ischemic insult up to 2 days after ischemic insult. Thereafter, the specific PLK activity decreased time-dependently. However, total activity of PLK was significantly increased 12-24 h after ischemic insult, and thereafter total activity of PLK decreased. Therefore, we suggest that the over-expression of PLK in the CA1 pyramidal cells at 12 h after ischemia may induce increase of GAD in the CA1 pyramidal cells, which plays an important role in delayed neuronal death via the increase of GABA or enhancement of GABA shunt pathway.
It was recently reported that glia cell line-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF) facilitates presynaptic axonal growth and neurotransmitter release at neuromuscular synapses. Little is known, however, whether GDNF can also act on the postsynaptic apparatus and its underlying mechanisms. Using biochemical cold blocking of existing membrane acetylcholine receptors (AchRs) and biotinylation of newly inserted receptors we demonstrate that GDNF increases the insertion of AChRs into the surface membrane of mouse primary cultured muscle cells and that this does not require protein synthesis. Quantitative data from double-label imaging indicate that GDNF induces a quick and substantial increase in AchR insertion as well as lateral movement into AchR aggregates, relative to a weak effect on reducing the loss of receptors from pre-existing AchR aggregates, which in contrast to the effect of PMA. These effects occur in both innervated and un-innervated muscles, and GDNF affects nerve-muscle co-cultures more than it affects muscle-only cultures. Neurturin, another member of GDNF-family ligands has similar effects on AchRs as GDNF but the unrelated growth factor, EGF does not. Studies on protein phosphorylation and specific inhibitors of cell signal transduction indicate that GDNF function is mediated by receptor GFRalpha1 and involves MAPK, cAMP/cAMP responsive element-binding factor and Src kinase activities. GDNF may signal through c-Ret as well as NCAM-140 pathways since both the signaling receptors are expressed in the neuromuscular junction (NMJ). These data suggest that GDNF is an autocrine regulator of NMJ to promote the insertion and stabilization of postsynaptic AchRs. In vivo, GDNF may function as a synaptotrophic modulator for both pre- and postsynaptic differentiation to strengthen the functional and structural connections between nerve and muscle, and contribute to the synaptogenesis and plasticity of neuromuscular synapses.
An accumulation of iron occurs in the brain with age, and it is thought that this may contribute to the pathology of certain neurodegenerative diseases, including Parkinson's disease. In this study, we elucidated the distribution of divalent metal transporter-1 (DMT1) in the monkey basal ganglia by immunocytochemistry, and compared it with the distribution of ferrous iron in these nuclei by Turnbull's Blue histochemical staining. We observed a general correlation between levels of DMT1, and iron staining. Thus, regions such as the caudate nucleus, putamen, and substantia nigra pars reticulata contained dense staining of DMT1 in astrocytic processes, and were also observed to contain large numbers of ferrous iron granules. The exceptions were the globus pallidus externa and interna, which contained light DMT1 staining, but large numbers of ferrous iron granules. The thalamus, subthalamic nucleus, and substantia nigra pars compacta contained neurons that were lightly stained for DMT1, but few or no iron granules. The high levels of DMT1 expression in some of the nuclei of the basal ganglia, particularly the caudate nucleus, putamen, and substantia nigra pars reticulata, may account for the high levels of iron in these regions.
Previous studies have established the usefulness of endothelin-1 (ET-1) for the production of focal cerebral ischemia. The present study assessed the behavioral effects of focal ET-1-induced lesions of the sensorimotor cortex (SMC) in adult rats as well as cellular and structural changes in the contralateral homotopic motor cortex at early (2 days) and later (14 days) post-lesion time points. ET-1 lesions resulted in somatosensory and postural-motor impairments in the contralateral (to the lesion) forelimb as assessed on a battery of sensitive measures of sensorimotor function. The lesions also resulted in the development of a hyper-reliance on the ipsilateral forelimb for postural-support behaviors. In comparison to sham-operated rats, in layer V of the motor cortex opposite the lesions, there were time- and laminar-dependent increases in the surface density of dendritic processes immunoreactive for microtubule-associated protein 2, in the optical density of N-methyl-D-asparate receptor (NMDA) subunit 1 immunoreactivity, and in the numerical density of cells immunolabeled for Fos, the protein product of the immediate early gene c-fos. These findings corroborate and extend previous findings of the effects of electrolytic lesions of the SMC. It is likely that compensatory forelimb behavioral changes and transcallosal degeneration play important roles in these changes in the cortex opposite the lesion, similar to previously reported effects of electrolytic SMC lesions.
The degree to which memory is enhanced by estrogen replacement in postmenopausal women may depend on environmental factors such as education. The present study utilized an animal model of environmental enrichment to determine whether environmental factors influence the mnemonic and neural response to estrogen. Female mice were raised in standard (SC) or enriched (EC) conditions from weaning until adulthood (7 months). All mice were ovariectomized at 10 weeks, and tested in object recognition and water-escape motivated radial arm maze (WRAM) tasks at 6 months. Each day at the completion of training, mice received injections of 0.1 mg/kg cyclodextrin-encapsulated 17-beta-estradiol (E2), 0.2 mg/kg E2, or cyclodextrin vehicle (VEH). At the completion of behavioral testing, hippocampal levels of the presynaptic protein synaptophysin and of brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) were measured. Enrichment effects were evident in VEH-treated mice; relative to SC-VEH females, EC-VEH females committed fewer working memory errors in the WRAM and exhibited increased hippocampal synaptophysin levels. Estrogen effects depended on environmental conditions. E2 (0.2 mg/kg) improved object memory only in SC females. The same dose improved working memory in SC females, but somewhat impaired working memory in EC females. Furthermore, both doses reduced hippocampal synaptophysin levels in EC, but not SC, females. In contrast, E2 reduced hippocampal BDNF levels in SC, but not EC, females. This study is the first to compare the effects of estrogen on memory and hippocampal function in enriched and non-enriched female mice. The results suggest that: (1) estrogen benefits object and working memory more in mice raised in non-enriched environments than in those raised in enriched environments, and (2) the changes induced by estrogen and/or enrichment may be associated with alterations in hippocampal synaptic plasticity.
Recent reports have revealed an involvement of microglial cells in dopaminergic neurodegeneration. In the present study, we tested the hypothesis that interleukin-18 (IL-18) plays a role in the microglial activation. The present study investigated microglial activation and dopaminergic neurodegeneration in substantia nigra pars compacta (SNpc) following 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP) treatment in wild type (WT) and IL-18 knockout (KO) mice. The number of dopaminergic neuron loss in WT mice was significantly decreased 7 days after MPTP treatment compared with IL-18 KO mice. In WT mice microglial activation occurred in the SN at 1 day after MPTP treatment, progressively increased within the SNpc until 7 days post MPTP, and subsided by 14 days. In contrast, in IL-18 KO mice microglial activation occurred in the SN at 1 day post-MPTP, and decreased by 7 days, earlier than in WT mice. The lesser microglial activation and dopaminergic neurodegeneration in the SNpc following MPTP treatment in WT indicates the possibility that IL-18 may participate in microglial activation and dopaminergic neurodegeneration.
Episodic release of gonadotropin releasing hormone (GnRH) is obligatory for mammalian reproduction. The contribution of synaptic input to intermittent firing of GnRH neurons is unclear. GnRH neurons have very few synapses and most post-synaptic currents are small. Therefore, the impact of synaptic currents on firing in GnRH neurons was directly examined using simulated (S)-alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-isoxazolepropionic acid (AMPA)-like inputs applied with the method of dynamic current clamping. Tightly synchronized inputs and 50 ms bursts of excitatory input resulted in action potentials that were coincident with the stimulus. Neither input pattern resulted in sustained firing. When ongoing patterns of simulated inputs were applied over a range of parameters, action potentials were associated with clusters of AMPA-like inputs of 250 pS (approximately 15 pA amplitudes), while single inputs of 500 pS (approximately 30 pA amplitudes) resulted in action potentials. Ongoing inputs of 500 pS drove firing at 4-9 Hz. These findings provide evidence that small, simulated glutamatergic inputs can control firing in GnRH neurons and suggest that despite the small amplitudes, endogenous synaptic input mediated by glutamate may contribute to firing in GnRH neurons.
The neuropeptide galanin exhibits anticonvulsant effects in experimental epilepsy. Two galanin receptor subtypes, GalR1 and GalR2, are present in the brain. We examined the role of GalR1 in seizures by studying the susceptibility of GalR1 knockout (KO) mice to status epilepticus (SE) and accompanying neuronal injury. SE was induced in GalR1 KO and wild type (WT) mice by Li-pilocarpine, 60 min electrical perforant path stimulation (PPS), or systemic kainic acid (KA). Seizures were analyzed using Harmonie software. Cell injury was examined by FluoroJade B- and terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase-mediated uridine triphosphate nick end labeling; neurogenesis was studied using bromodeoxyuridine labeling. Compared with WT littermates, GalR1 KO showed more severe seizures, more profound injury to the CA1 pyramidal cell layer, as well as injury to hilar interneurons and dentate granule cells upon Li-pilocarpine administration. PPS led to more severe seizures in KO, as compared with WT mice. No difference in the extent of neuronal degeneration was observed between the mice of two genotypes in CA1 pyramidal cell layer; however, in contrast to WT, GalR1 KO developed mild injury to hilar interneurons on the side of PPS. KA-induced seizures did not differ between GalR1 KO and WT animals, and led to no injury to the hippocampus in either of experimental group. No differences were found between KO and WT mice in both basal and seizure-induced neuronal progenitor proliferation in all seizure types. Li-pilocarpine led to more extensive glia proliferation in GalR1 KO than in WT, and in both mouse types in two other SE models. In conclusion, GalR1 mediate galanin protection from seizures and seizure-induced hippocampal injury in Li-pilocarpine and PPS models of limbic SE, but not under conditions of KA-induced seizures. The results justify the development and use of GalR1 agonists in the treatment of certain forms of epilepsy.
The present study investigated the role of neuronal nitric oxide synthase (nNOS) in carrageenan-induced inflammatory pain by combining genomic and pharmacological strategies. Intrathecal injection of the nNOS inhibitor 7-nitroindazole dose-dependently inhibited carrageenan-induced thermal hyperalgesia in both early and late phases in wild-type mice. However in nNOS knockout mice, carrageenan-induced thermal hyperalgesia remained intact in the early phase but was reduced in the late phase. Spinal Ca2+ -dependent nitric oxide synthase (NOS) activity in nNOS knockout mice was significantly lower than that in wild-type mice. Following carrageenan injection, although the spinal Ca2+ -dependent NOS activity in both wild-type and knockout mice increased, the enzyme activity in nNOS knockout mice reached a level similar to that in wild-type mice. On the other hand, no significant difference in spinal Ca2+ -independent NOS activity was noted between wild-type and nNOS knockout mice before and after carrageenan injection. Furthermore, intrathecal administration of the endothelial NOS (eNOS) inhibitor L-N5-(1-iminoethyl)-ornithinein nNOS knockout mice inhibited the thermal hyperalgesia in both early and late phases, though this inhibitor had no effect in wild-type mice. Meanwhile, Western blot showed that eNOS expression in the spinal cord of nNOS knockout mice was up-regulated compared with wild-type mice; immunohistochemical staining showed that the spinal eNOS was mainly distributed in superficial laminae of the dorsal horn. Finally, double staining with confocal analysis showed that the enhanced spinal eNOS was expressed in astrocytes, but not in neurons. Our current results indicate that nNOS plays different roles in the two phases of carrageenan-induced inflammatory pain. In this model, enhanced spinal eNOS appears to compensate for the role of nNOS in nNOS knockout mice.
We examined efferent connections of the cortical auditory field that receives thalamic afferents specifically from the suprageniculate nucleus (SG) and the dorsal division (MGD) of the medial geniculate body (MG) in the rat [Neuroscience 117 (2003) 1003]. The examined cortical region was adjacent to the caudodorsal border (4.8-7.0 mm posterior to bregma) of the primary auditory area (area Te1) and exhibited relatively late auditory response and high best frequency, compared with the caudal end of area Te1. On the basis of the location and auditory response property, the cortical region is considered identical to &quot;posterodorsal&quot; auditory area (PD). Injections of biocytin in PD revealed characteristic projections, which terminated in cortical areas and subcortical structures that play pivotal roles in directed attention and space processing. The most noticeable cortical terminal field appeared as dense plexuses of axons in area Oc2M, the posterior parietal cortex. Small terminal fields were scattered in area frontal cortex, area 2 that comprises the frontal eye field. The subcortical terminal fields were observed in the pontine nucleus, the nucleus of the brachium inferior colliculus, and the intermediate and deep layers of the superior colliculus. Corticostriatal projections targeted two discrete regions of the caudate putamen: the top of the middle part and the caudal end. It is noteworthy that the inferior colliculus and amygdala virtually received no projection. Corticothalamic projections terminated in the MGD, the SG, the ventral zone of the ventral division of the MG, the ventral margin of the lateral posterior nucleus (LP), and the caudodorsal part of the posterior thalamic nuclear group (Po). Large terminals were found in the MGD, SG, LP and Po besides small terminals, the major component of labeling. The results suggest that PD is an auditory area that plays an important role in spatial processing linked to directed attention and motor function. The results extend to the rat findings from nonhuman primates suggesting the existence of a posterodorsal processing stream for auditory spatial perception.
Prostaglandin E2 (PGE2) produced in the medial preoptic region (MPO) in response to immune signals is generally accepted to play a major role in triggering the illness response, a complex of physiological and behavioral changes induced by infection or injury. Hyperalgesia is now thought to be an important component of the illness response, yet the specific mechanisms through which the MPO acts to facilitate nociception have not been established. However, the MPO does project to the rostral ventromedial medulla (RVM), a region with a well-documented role in pain modulation, both directly and indirectly via the periaqueductal gray. To test whether PGE2 in the MPO produces thermal hyperalgesia by recruiting nociceptive modulating neurons in the RVM, we recorded the effects of focal application of PGE2 in the MPO on paw withdrawal latency and activity of identified nociceptive modulating neurons in the RVM of lightly anesthetized rats. Microinjection of a sub-pyrogenic dose of PGE2 (50 fg in 200 nl) into the MPO produced thermal hyperalgesia, as measured by a significant decrease in paw withdrawal latency. In animals displaying behavioral hyperalgesia, the PGE2 microinjection activated on-cells, RVM neurons thought to facilitate nociception, and suppressed the firing of off-cells, RVM neurons believed to have an inhibitory effect on nociception. A large body of evidence has implicated prostaglandins in the MPO in generation of the illness response, especially fever. The present study indicates that the MPO also contributes to the hyperalgesic component of the illness response, most likely by recruiting the nociceptive modulating circuitry of the RVM.
In an attempt to characterize changes in transcription after a sub-chronic spinal cord injury (SCI), we investigated gene expression profiles using cDNA microarray. Among 7523 genes and expressed sequence tags (ESTs) examined, 444 transcripts, including 218 genes and 226 ESTs, were identified to be either up-regulated (373 of 444) or down-regulated (71 of 444) greater than 2.0-fold in the spinal cord at 14 days after a complete spinal transection at the 11th thoracic level in adult rats. Based on their potential function, these differentially expressed genes were categorized into seven classes which include cell division-related protein, channels and receptors, cytoskeletal elements, extracellular matrix proteins, metalloproteinases and inhibitors, growth-associated molecules, metabolism, intracellular transducers and transcription factors, as well as others. Strong expressional changes were found in all classes revealing the complexity and diversity of gene expression profiles following SCI. We verified array results with RT-PCR for eight genes, Northern blotting for nine genes, and in situ hybridization for one gene and immunohistochemistry for four genes. These analyses confirmed, to a large extent, that the array results have accurately reflected the molecular changes occurring at 14 days post-SCI. Importantly, the current study has identified a number of genes, including annexins, heparin-binding growth-associated protein (HB-GAM), P9ka (S100A4), matrix metalloproteinases, and lysozyme, that may shed new light on SCI-related inflammation, neuroprotection, neurite-outgrowth, synaptogenesis, and astrogliosis. In conclusion, the identification of molecular changes using the large-scale microarray analysis may lead to a better understanding of underlying mechanisms, thus, the development of new repair strategies for SCI.
The entorhinal cortex (EC) is involved in a variety of cognitive functions by virtue of its neuronal input from the neocortex and projection to the hippocampal formation and the limbic-striatal system. Neonatal lesions are increasingly considered useful models for disconnection syndromes such as schizophrenia. Therefore, we investigated the effects of neonatal EC lesions on adult rat behavior. Neonatal (postnatal day 7) lesions were inflicted by bilateral injections of ibotenate into the EC. Sham-lesioned (vehicle injection) and naive (unoperated) rats served as controls. Locomotor activity was measured in prepubertal and young adult rats. Adult rats were then tested for spatial learning in an eight-arm radial maze (reinforced delayed alternation) and for motivation (progressive ratio schedule of operant behavior). Finally, prepulse inhibition (PPI) of the acoustic startle reflex and locomotor activity were investigated with and without apomorphine (APO) challenge. Brain tissue damage was assessed using Nissl-staining. The total volume of the adult rat EC was reduced after neonatal ibotenate-injection. Neonatal EC-lesions increased perseveration only in a delayed task in the radial maze and induced a leftward-shift of breakpoints in operant responding. Lesions did not alter baseline locomotor activity, but enhanced the locomotor stimulating effect of APO. PPI was not affected by neonatal lesions of the EC with and without APO challenge. Neonatal lesions of the EC impaired the ability to hold information during delays and reduced motivation during operant behavior which reflects a state of anhedonia. Thus, they may serve as an animal model for certain aspects of schizophrenia.
The superoxide dismutase 1 (SOD1)G93A mouse was recently established as transgenic model of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. We were interested to know whether the SOD1 G93A mutation promotes neuronal injury after intraluminal middle cerebral artery thread occlusion and/or retinal ganglion cell (RGC) axotomy in mice, which are highly reproducible and clinically relevant in vivo models of acute and subacute neuronal degeneration, respectively. In our experiments, G93A mutant SOD1 neither influenced ischemic injury after 90 or 30 min of focal ischemia, nor had an impact on the severity of RGC degeneration after optic nerve transection, when human SOD1 G93A mutant mice were compared to human wild-type SOD1 mice. Our data indicate that the clinically relevant SOD1 G93A mutation, which leads to amyotrophic lateral sclerosis in humans and mice, does not necessarily worsen neuronal degeneration in other pathologies. Thus, the G93A mutation may be counterbalanced in non-motor neurons of young animals, and region-specific and age-related factors may be necessary so that neurodegeneration is re-enforced.
N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA)receptors (NMDARs) located on peripheral terminals of primary afferents are involved in the transduction of noxious mechanical stimuli. Exploiting the fact that both NMDARs and stretch-activated channels are retained in short-term culture and expressed on the soma of dorsal root ganglia (DRG) neurons, we examined the effect of NMDA on mechanically mediated changes in intracellular calcium concentration ([Ca2+]i). Our aims were to determine whether NMDARs modulate the mechanosensitivity of DRG neurons. Primary cultures of adult rat lumbosacral DRG cells were cultured for 1-3 days. [Ca2+]i responses were determined by Fura-2 ratio fluorescence. Somas were mechanically stimulated with fire-polished glass pipettes that depressed the cell membrane for 0.5 s. Voltage-activated inward Ca2+ currents were measured by the whole cell patch clamp. Stimulation of neurons with 100 microM NMDA in the presence, but not the absence, of co-agonist (10 microM D-serine) caused transient [Ca2+]i responses (101+/-9 nM) and potentiated [Ca2+]i peak responses to subsequent mechanical stimulation more than two-fold (P &lt; 0.001). NMDA-mediated potentiation of mechanically induced [Ca2+]i responses was inhibited by the selective protein kinase C (PKC) inhibitor GF109203X (GFX; 10 microM), which had no independent effects on NMDA- or mechanically induced responses. Short-term treatment with the PKC activator phorbol dibutyrate (1 microM PDBu for 1-2 min) also potentiated mechanically induced [Ca2+]i responses nearly two-fold (P &lt; 0.001), while longer exposure (&gt;10 min) inhibited the [Ca2+]i transients by 44% (P &lt; 0.001). Both effects of PDBu were prevented by prior treatment with GFX. Inhibition of voltage-dependent Ca2+ channels with 25 microM La3+ had no effect on mechanically induced [Ca2+]i transients prior to NMDA, but prevented enhancement of the transients by NMDA and PDBu. NMDA pretreatment transiently enhanced nifedipine-sensitive, voltage-activated Ca2+ currents by a process that was sensitive to GFX. In conclusion, activation of NMDARs on cultured DRG neurons sensitize voltage-dependent L-type Ca2+ channels which contribute to mechanically induced [Ca2+]i transients through a PKC-mediated process.
Recently, we have demonstrated that sensory neurons of rat lumbar dorsal root ganglia (DRG) respond to hypoxia with an activation of endothelial nitric oxide (NO) synthase (eNOS) resulting in enhanced NO production associated with mitochondria which contributes to resistance against hypoxia. Extracellular calcium is essential to this effect. In the present study on rat DRG slices, we set out to determine what types of calcium channels operate under hypoxia, and which upstream events contribute to their activation, thereby focusing upon mitochondrial complex II. Both the metallic ions Cd2+ and Ni2+, known to inhibit voltage-gated calcium channels and T-type channels, respectively, and verapamil and nifedipine, typical blocker of L-type calcium channels completely prevented the hypoxic neuronal NO generation. Inhibition of complex II by thenoyltrifluoroacetone at the ubiquinon binding site or by 3-nitropropionic acid at the substrate binding site largely diminished hypoxic-induced NO production while having an opposite effect under normoxia. An additional blockade of voltage-gated calcium channels entirely abolished the hypoxic response. The complex II inhibitor malonate inhibited both normoxic and hypoxic NO generation. These data show that complex II activity is required for increased hypoxic NO production. Since succinate dehydrogenase activity of complex II decreased at hypoxia, as measured by histochemistry and densitometry, we propose a hypoxia-induced functional switch of complex II from succinate dehydrogenase to fumarate reductase, which subsequently leads to activation of voltage-gated calcium channels resulting in increased NO production by eNOS.
Zac1, a new zinc-finger protein that regulates both apoptosis and cell cycle arrest, is abundantly expressed in many proliferative/differentiation areas during brain development. In the present work, we studied Zac1 gene expression and protein in experimental seizure models following i.p. injection of pentylenetetrazole (PTZ) or kainic acid (KA). Following KA treatment, an early and intense up-regulation of Zac1 is detected in the limbic areas, such as the hippocampus, cortex and amygdaloid and hypothalamic nuclei. Pre-treatment with MK-801, an antagonist of the NMDA receptors, fully blocks the effect of KA in the hippocampus, whereas it only attenuates KA-induced Zac1 up-regulation in the other areas of the limbic system. A reduced induction is obtained with PTZ-treated animals, specifically in the entorhinal and piriform cortices as well as in amygdaloid and hypothalamic nuclei. Thus, Zac1 is highly induced in the seizure models that generate strong neuronal stimulation and/or extensive cell damage (cell death), reinforcing its putative role in the control of the cell cycle and/or apoptosis. Moreover, strong induction is observed in the granular cells of the dentate gyrus (which are resistant to neurodegeneration) and in some glial cells of the dentate gyrus and subventricular zone, suggesting that Zac1 may be implicated in the mechanisms of neural plasticity following injury.
Cells that survive traumatic brain injury are exposed to changes in their neurochemical environment. One of these changes is a prolonged (48 h) uptake of calcium which, by itself, is not lethal. The N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor (NMDAR) is responsible for the acute membrane flux of calcium following trauma; however, it is unclear if it is involved in a flux lasting 2 days. We proposed that traumatic brain injury induced a molecular change in the NMDAR by modifying the concentrations of its corresponding subunits (NR1 and NR2). Changing these subunits could result in a receptor being more sensitive to glutamate and prolong its opening, thereby exposing cells to a sustained flux of calcium. To test this hypothesis, adult rats were subjected to a lateral fluid percussion brain injury and the NR1, NR2A and NR2B subunits measured within different regions. Although little change was seen in NR1, both NR2 subunits decreased nearly 50% compared with controls, particularly within the ipsilateral cerebral cortex. This decrease was sustained for 4 days with levels returning to control values by 2 weeks. However, this decrease was not the same for both subunits, resulting in a decrease (over 30%) in the NR2A:NR2B ratio indicating that the NMDAR had temporarily become more sensitive to glutamate and would remain open longer once activated. Combining these regional and temporal findings with 45calcium autoradiographic studies revealed that the degree of change in the subunit ratio corresponded to the extent of calcium accumulation. Finally, utilizing a combination of NMDAR and NR2B-specific antagonists it was determined that as much at 85% of the long term NMDAR-mediated calcium flux occurs through receptors whose subunits favor the NR2B subunit. These data indicate that TBI induces molecular changes within the NMDAR, contributing to the cells' post-injury vulnerability to glutamatergic stimulation.
Acetyl-L-carnitine is known to improve many aspects of the neural activity even if its exact role in neurotransmission is still unknown. This study investigates the effects of acetyl-L-carnitine in T segmental sensory neurons of the leech Hirudo medicinalis. These neurons are involved in some forms of neural plasticity associated with learning processes. Their physiological firing is accompanied by a large afterhyperpolarization that is mainly due to the Na+/K+ ATPase activity and partially to a Ca2+ -dependent K+ current. A clear-cut hyperpolarization and a significant increase of the afterhyperpolarization have been recorded in T neurons of leeches injected with 2 mM acetyl-L-carnitine some days before. Acute treatments of 50 microM acetyl-L-carnitine induced similar effects in T cells of naive animals. In the presence of apamin, a pharmacological blocker of Ca2+ -dependent K+ channel, acetyl-L-carnitine still enhanced the residual afterhyperpolarization, suggesting an effect of the drug on the Na+/K+ATPase. Acetyl-L-carnitine also increased the hyperpolarization induced by intracellular injection of Na+ ions. Therefore, acetyl-L-carnitine seems to be able to exert a positive sustained effect on the Na+/K+ ATPase activity in leech T sensory neurons. Moreover, in these cells, widely arborized, the afterhyperpolarization seems to play an important role in determining the action potential transmission at neuritic bifurcations. A computational model of a T cell has been previously developed considering detailed data for geometry and the modulation of the pump current. Herein, we showed that to a larger afterhyperpolarization, due to the acetyl-L-carnitine-induced effects, corresponds a decrement in the number of action potentials reaching synaptic terminals.
Maneb, a widely used fungicide, has been associated with Parkinsonism in humans. In experimental models, maneb and its major active element, manganese ethylene-bis-dithiocarbamate (Mn-EBDC) cause selective nigrostriatal neurodegeneration in mice and in rats, respectively. To investigate the mechanisms underlying this neurodegeneration, we studied the effects of Mn-EBDC on proteasomal function, which is decreased in patients with Parkinson's disease (PD), in a dopaminergic neuronal cell line (MES 23.5 or MES). The results demonstrated that exposure of MES cells to 6 microM Mn-EBDC for 7 days produced not only significant neurotoxicity but also inhibition of proteasomal chymotrypsin-like and postglutamyl peptidase activities. Proteasomal dysfunction was accompanied by formation of cytoplasmic inclusions that were positive for alpha-synuclein immunostaining and significantly increased sodium dodecyl sulfate-insoluble alpha-synuclein aggregation seen by Western blot analysis. In addition, there was a significant increase in oxidative stress, evidenced by elevated total protein carbonyl content, in cells treated with Mn-EBDC. Manipulation of intracellular reduced glutathione levels with N-acetyl-L-cysteine or L-buthionine sulfoximine pretreatment to modulate Mn-EBDC-mediated oxidative stress altered Mn-EBDC-mediated neurotoxicity, proteasomal dysfunction, and alpha-synuclein aggregation in these cells. These data suggest that neurotoxicity-induced by Mn-EBDC is at least partially attributable to Mn-EBDC-mediated proteasomal inhibition, and that the proteasome may be an important target by which environmental exposure modifies the risk for developing PD in vulnerable populations.
Recent studies demonstrate that P2X7 receptor subunits (P2X7RS) are present at central and peripheral synapses and suggest that P2X7RS can regulate transmitter release. In brainstem slices from 15 to 26 day old pentobarbitone-anesthetized mice, we examined the effect of P2X7RS activation on excitatory postsynaptic currents (EPSCs) recorded from hypoglossal motoneurons using whole-cell patch clamp techniques. After blockade of most P2X receptors with suramin (which is inactive at P2X7RS) and of adenosine receptors with 8-phenyltheophylline (8PT), bath application of the P2X receptor agonist 3'-0-(4-benzoyl)ATP (BzATP) elicited a 40.5+/-16.0% (mean+/-S.E.M., n = 8, P = 0.039) increase in evoked EPSC amplitude and significantly reduced paired pulse facilitation of evoked EPSCs. This response to BzATP (with suramin and 8PT present) was completely blocked by prior application of Brilliant Blue G (200 nM or 2 microM), a P2X7RS antagonist. In contrast, BzATP application with suramin and 8PT present did not alter miniature EPSC frequency or amplitude when action potentials were blocked with tetrodotoxin. These electrophysiological results suggest that P2X7RS activation increases central excitatory transmitter release via presynaptic mechanisms, confirming previous indirect measures of enhanced transmitter release. We suggest that possible presynaptic mechanisms underlying enhancement of evoked transmitter release by P2X7RS activation are modulation of action potential width or an increase in presynaptic terminal excitability, due to subthreshold membrane depolarization which increases the number of terminals releasing transmitter in response to stimulation.
Nicotinamide adenine dinucleotides can exhibit a daily rhythm in plants and regulate the activity of mammalian clock-like transcription factors in vitro. Because one such redox-sensitive transcription factor is present in the master circadian clock of the brain (the suprachiasmatic nuclei, SCN) and the SCN exhibits a characteristic daily rhythm in glucose usage, nicotinamide cofactors might be expected to influence, exhibit, and/or reflect biological rhythms in SCN cells. Therefore, cofactors were extracted from a model SCN cell line at 3 h intervals over 1-2 day periods and samples were analyzed by capillary electrophoresis with multiphoton excitation of fluorescence. Natively fluorescent reduced cofactors (nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide, NADH, and its phosphorylated form, NADPH) were assayed directly, and nonfluorescent oxidized cofactors (nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide, NAD, and its phosphorylated form, NADP) were enzymatically reduced to their fluorescent counterparts before analysis. In the first day after a synchronizing pulse of fetal bovine serum, a dramatic upregulation in cellular NADH content was observed, consistent with a response to serum insulin; this was accompanied by a smaller decrease in NADPH redox state, which may indicate scavenging of reactive oxygen species generated by increased cellular metabolism. However, when cells were investigated after these early phenomena had recovered or stabilized, no circadian NAD(P)(H) rhythms were observed. During these studies, the NADH/NAD(H) concentration ratio in SCN2.2 cells (0.13+/-0.03) was not high enough to activate clock-like transcription factors. Although the NADPH/NADP(H) concentration ratio was more appropriate (0.8+/-0.1), the intracellular NADPH concentration was &lt; or = 0.7 mM, far too low for half-maximal DNA binding of clock-like transcription factors in vitro. Moreover, these concentration and ratio values represent cellular averages, and free cofactors should be much lower in the cell nucleus. Our data show that SCN2.2 cells maintain nearly constant circadian NAD(P)(H) levels, and that the previously reported in vitro relationship between clock-like transcription factors and NAD(P)(H) does not appear to be biologically relevant.
In anaesthetised rats, long-term potentiation (LTP) was induced unilaterally in the dentate gyrus by tetanic stimulation of the perforant path. Animals were killed 6 h after LTP induction and dendritic spines and synapses in tetanised and untetanised (contralateral) hippocampal tissue from the middle molecular layer (MML) were examined in the electron microscope using stereological analysis. Three-dimensional reconstructions were also used for the first time in LTP studies in vivo, with up to 130 ultrathin serial sections analysed per MML dendritic segment. A volume sampling procedure revealed no significant changes in hippocampal volume after LTP and an unbiased counting method demonstrated no significant changes in synapse density in potentiated compared with control tissue. In the potentiated hemisphere, there were changes in the proportion of different spine types and their synaptic contacts. We found an increase in the percentage of synapses on thin dendritic spines, a decrease in synapses on both stubby spines and dendritic shafts, but no change in the proportion of synapses on mushroom spines. Analysis of three-dimensional reconstructions of thin and mushroom spines following LTP induction revealed a significant increase in their volume and area. We also found an increase in volume and area of unperforated (macular) and perforated (segmented) postsynaptic densities. Our data demonstrate that whilst there is no change in synapse density 6 h after the induction of LTP in vivo, there is a considerable restructuring of pre-existing synapses, with shaft and stubby spines transforming to thin dendritic spines, and mushroom spines changing only in shape and volume.
The effects of metabolic inhibition of cholesterol biosynthesis on the trafficking of the nicotinic acetylcholine receptor (AChR) to the cell membrane were studied in living CHO-K1/A5, a Chinese hamster ovary clonal line that heterologously expresses adult alpha2betadeltaepsilon mouse AChR. To this end, we submitted CHO-K1/A5 cells to long-term cholesterol deprivation, elicited by Mevinolin, a potent inhibitor of 3-hydroxy-3-methyl-glutaryl-CoA reductase and applied a combination of biochemical, pharmacological and fluorescence microscopy techniques to follow the fate of the AChR. When CHO-K1/A5 cells were grown for 48 h in lipid-deficient medium supplemented with 0.5 microM Mevinolin, total cholesterol was significantly reduced (40%). Concomitantly, the maximum number of binding sites (Bmax) of the cell-surface AChR for the competitive antagonist alpha-bungarotoxin was reduced from 647+/-30 to 352+/-34 fmol/mg protein, i.e. by 46%. The apparent dissociation constant (Kdapp) for alpha-bungarotoxin of the AChRs remaining at the cell surface was not modified by cholesterol depletion. Similarly, the half-concentration inhibiting the specific binding of the radioligand (IC50) for another competitive antagonist, d-tubocurarine, did not differ from that in control cells. The decrease in cell-surface AChR was paralleled by an increase in intracellular AChR levels, which rose from 44+/-2.1% in control cells to 74+/-3.3% in Mevinolin-treated cells. When analyzed by wide-field fluorescence microscopy, the fluorescence signal arising from alpha-bungarotoxin labeled cell-surface AChRs was reduced by approximately 70% in Mevinolin-treated cells. The distribution of intracellular AChR also changed: Alexa594-alpha-bungarotoxin-labeled AChR exhibited a highly compartmentalized pattern, concentrating at the perinuclear and Golgi-like regions. Temperature-arrest of protein trafficking magnified this effect, emphasizing the Golgi localization of the AChR. Colocalization studies using the transiently expressed fluorescent trans-Golgi/trans-Golgi network marker pEYFP/human beta1,4-galactosyltransferase and the trans-Golgi network marker syntaxin 6 provided additional support for the Golgi localization of intracellular AChRs. The low AChR cell-surface expression and the increase in intracellular AChR pools in cholesterol-depleted cells raise the possibility that cholesterol participates in the trafficking of the receptor protein to the plasmalemma and its stability at this surface location.
The nucleus accumbens (NAC) is considered to be an important neural interface between corticolimbic and motor systems of the brain. Several studies have shown that the NAC is not only involved in motivation and reward-related processes but also in spatial behavior. We here investigated the involvement of different glutamate receptor subclasses within NAC core and shell subregions on behavior in a radial-maze. Rats were first trained in a four-arm-baited eight-arm radial maze task for baseline performance. Thereafter, the effects of microinjection of the nonselective glutamate receptor antagonist kynurenic acid (4.5 microg), the NMDA receptor antagonist 2-amino-5-phosphonopentanoic acid (1 microg) and the non-NMDA receptor antagonist 6,7-dinitroquinoxaline-2,3-dione (0.75 microg) in NAC core and shell were tested on reference memory errors (RME) and working memory errors (WME). Moreover, the choice pattern of entries and duration of arm-entries were evaluated. Microinjection of all drugs increased RME. Additionally, non-NMDA receptor blockade in NAC shell but not core increased WME. After microinjection of all drugs into NAC core and shell rats preferentially choose the arms next to the previously visited arm. This work shows that glutamate receptors in both NAC subregions are important for spatial behavior. The deficits seen after glutamate receptor blockade may not be working- or reference memory-related but caused by a switch from a memory-dependent allocentric strategy to an egocentric response strategy.
The synaptic delivery of GluR4-containing AMPA receptors during in vitro classical conditioning of a neural correlate of an eyeblink response was examined by fluorescence imaging of punctate staining for glutamate receptor subunits and the presynaptic marker synaptophysin. There was a significant increase in GluR4-containing AMPA receptors to synaptic sites after conditioning as determined by colocalization of GluR4 subunit puncta with synaptophysin. Moreover, the trafficking of these receptor subunits requires NMDA receptor activation as it was blocked by D,L-2-amino-5-phosphonovaleric acid (AP-5). In contrast, colocalization of NR1 subunits with synaptophysin was stable regardless of whether the preparations had undergone conditioning or had been treated by AP-5. The enhanced colocalization of GluR4 and synaptophysin was accompanied by an increase in both the total number and size of puncta for both proteins, suggesting greater synthesis and aggregation during conditioning. Western blot analysis confirmed upregulation of synaptophysin and GluR4 following conditioning. These data support the hypothesis that GluR4-containing AMPA receptors are delivered to synaptic sites during conditioning. Further, they suggest coordinate presynaptic and postsynaptic modifications during in vitro classical conditioning.
While peripheral tissues and serum-shocked fibroblasts express rhythmic oscillations in clock gene expression, only the suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN) is capable of endogenous, self-sustained rhythmicity and of functioning as a pacemaker by imposing rhythmic properties upon other cells. To differentially examine the molecular elements necessary for the distinctive rhythm-generating and pacemaking properties of the SCN, the effects of antisense inhibition of Clock expression on the rhythms in 2-deoxyglucose uptake and Per gene expression were compared in immortalized SCN cells and a fibroblast cell line. Similar to changes in molecular and physiological rhythmicity observed in the SCN of Clock mutant mice, the rhythmic pattern of Per2 expression was disrupted and the period of metabolic rhythmicity was increased in SCN2.2 cells subjected to antisense inhibition of Clock. NIH/3T3 fibroblasts cocultured with antisense-treated SCN2.2 cells showed metabolic rhythms with comparable increases in period and decreases in rhythm amplitude. Per2 expression in these cocultured fibroblasts exhibited a similar reduction in peak levels, but was marked by non-24 h or irregular peak-to-peak intervals. In serum-shocked NIH/3T3 fibroblasts, oscillations in Per2, Bmal1, and Cry1 expression persisted with some change in rhythm amplitude during antisense inhibition of CLOCK, demonstrating that feedback interactions between Clock and other core components of the clock mechanism may be regulated differently in SCN2.2 cells and fibroblasts. The present results suggest that CLOCK is differentially involved in the generation of endogenous molecular and metabolic rhythmicity within SCN2.2 cells and in the regulation of their specific outputs that control rhythmic processes in NIH/3T3 cells.
Estrogen (E) treatment of ovariectomized animals increases dendritic spines and/or synaptic protein expression in the hippocampus of female rats [J Neurosci 12 (1992) 2549; Endocrinology 142 (2001) 1284; Endocrinol Rev 20 (1999) 279; Annu Rev Pharmacol Toxicol 41 (2001) 569], mice [Proc Natl Acad Sci USA 101 (2004) 2185], rhesus monkeys [Proc Natl Acad Sci USA 98 (2001) 8071; Endocrinology 144 (2003) 4734; J Comp Neurol 465 (2003) 540] and hippocampal cells in vitro [J Neurosci 16 (1996) 4059; Neuroscience 124 (2004) 549]. The role of E in hippocampal synaptic structural plasticity in males is less well understood. In the present study, we have used a recently developed technique to count spinophilin immunogold-reactive (Ir) puncta as well as in situ hybridization to compare E effects on spinophilin-Ir and mRNA in gonadectomized female and male rats 48 h after E treatment. Spinophilin is an established spine marker, which interacts with several proteins (including actin and protein phosphatase 1) that are highly enriched in spines [Proc Natl Acad Sci USA 94 (1997) 9956; Proc Natl Acad Sci USA 97 (2000) 9287]. We report that E exerts sex-specific effects on dendritic spinophilin-labeled spines in the CA1 region: E treatment significantly increased spinophilin-Ir puncta, indicative of spines, in females, but led to a decrease in males. Furthermore, while hippocampal spinophilin mRNA changes could have occurred earlier, spinophilin mRNA levels were unchanged after 48 h of E in both males and females. This suggests the possibility that E regulates spinophilin protein expression and or stability within dendrites via post-transcriptional mechanisms.
Effects of two small G-proteins, Rap1 and Ras, on the sodium channel activity in NG108-15 cells were studied using sindbis virus-mediated gene transfer. When an activated Rap1A mutant (Rap1-12V, the activated mutant of Rap1 carrying glycine to valine substitution at codon 12) or a dominant-negative H-Ras mutant (Ras-17N, carrying serine to asparagine substitution at codon 17) was expressed in differentiated NG108-15 cells, the proportion of cells generating action potential decreased and the amplitudes of sodium current diminished. This effect was sensitive to an inhibitor of protein kinase A. The effects of a cyclic AMP (cAMP) analog (dibutyl cAMP) on sodium current in these cells were biphasic: inhibitory at lower concentrations (&lt;100 microM) and enhancing at higher concentrations (200-500 microM). The inhibitory phase of cAMP effect was suppressed by an activated Ras mutant (Ras-12V) while the enhancing phase was suppressed by Rap1-12V. These data are consistent with the model that Rap1 and Ras function as counteracting regulators of voltage-gated sodium current through cAMP-dependent mechanisms.
Sensory experience and learning can modify cortical body maps. We have previously reported that 3 days of classical conditioning, in which stimulation of a row of whiskers was paired with tail shock, produced an expansion of the cortical representation of the &quot;trained row&quot; labeled with 2-deoxyglucose (2DG), in layer IIIb and IV of the barrel cortex. The present study examined plastic remodelling of the vibrissal cortical representation after pairing whisker stimulation with a drop of sweet water. Cortical representations of rows of whiskers were mapped by 2DG autoradiography after 3 days and 2 months of training. The training resulted in enlargement of the cortical representation of vibrissae involved in the stimulus pairing compared with the contralateral representation of a row of whiskers, that were not touched during the training. This modification of whisker representation was different after short-term and long-term appetitive training. After three pairing sessions, changes in the width of cortical representation were visible in layers II/IIIa (29%) and layers V/VI (28%). After 2 months of training, significant changes in the width of cortical representation row B were found only in layer IV (41%). The changes were not observed in animals, that received whisker stimulation alone or in those who were subjected to training with unpaired stimuli. The results demonstrate that stimulus-pairing-induced changes in cortical whisker representation appeared with different time courses at different levels of cortical columnar information processing.
Chronic exposure to cold in rats alters the activity of locus coeruleus (LC) neurons. In this study we aimed to examine the cellular effect of cold stress on catecholamine neurons, and determine whether this is specific to the LC compared with other catecholamine cell groups. Male Sprague-Dawley rats were subjected to 21 days of isolation under ambient conditions, chronic cold exposure at 5 degrees C, or after chronic cold followed by return to ambient temperature for 7 or 14 days. In the LC, chronic cold exposure significantly reduced tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) mRNA expression by approximately 45% compared with control rats, and remained significantly reduced (approximately 36%) after return to ambient conditions for 7 days; however, expression returned to normal after 14 days' recovery. There were no significant changes in TH mRNA in the substantia nigra or ventral tegmental area. Chronic cold increased expression of alpha2A adrenoceptor mRNA in the LC (approximately 27%). There were decreases in alpha2A expression in the nucleus tractus solitarius; however, this was seen only in rats returned to ambient conditions for 7 days. Additionally, alpha2A mRNA in the caudal ventrolateral medulla (A1 region) increased following cold exposure (approximately 84%) compared with controls. Binding of [125I]iodoclonidine to alpha2-like protein increased in the olfactory bulbs but decreased in the medial amygdala following cold exposure. Collectively, these data indicate robust effects of cold on central catecholamine neurons, not necessarily specific to the LC.
Repeated treatment with methamphetamine leads to an enhancement in the methamphetamine-induced dopamine release and its related behaviors. This phenomenon is called sensitization or reverse tolerance. Protein kinase C (PKC) controls numerous signaling cascades by virtue of its ability to phosphorylate target proteins that include other kinases. The purpose of study was then to investigate the implication of PKC in the development of sensitization to the rewarding effect and to the extracellular dopamine release induced by methamphetamine in rats. The conditioned place preference paradigm and in vivo microdialysis assay were performed in the present study. An intra-nucleus accumbens injection of a selective PKC inhibitor chelerythrine chloride abolished the enhancement of the methamphetamine-induced place preference following repeated treatment with methamphetamine. Furthermore, intra-nucleus accumbens injection of chelerythrine chloride blocked the development of sensitization to dopamine release and to the decrease in the major dopamine metabolites, 3'4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid and homovanillic acid, in the nucleus accumbens induced by repeated methamphetamine treatment. Under these conditions, the immunoreactivity of the cytosolic phosphorylated conventional- or classic-type PKC in the limbic forebrain region including the nucleus accumbens was slightly, but significantly increased in methamphetamine-sensitized rats. The present data provide evidence for the implication of PKC in the nucleus accumbens in the development of sensitization to the methamphetamine-induced rewarding effect, dopamine release and inhibition of dopamine metabolism/re-uptake in rats.
Previous microdialysis studies have identified a suppressive effect of the novel opioid peptide nociceptin (also known as orphanin FQ) on dopamine release from mesolimbic neurons. In order to further evaluate the locus of this action, we investigated nociceptin's action in an in vitro model system, namely midbrain dopamine neurons in primary culture. Immunohistochemical analysis revealed abundant tyrosine hydroxylase- and GABA-immunoreactive neurons, with a strong correlation between tyrosine hydroxylase content and basal endogenous dopamine release. Nociceptin (0.01-100 nM) suppressed basal dopamine release by up to 84% (EC50=0.65 nM). This action was reversible by drug removal and attenuated by co-application of the non-peptidergic ORL1 antagonist, Compound B. Nociceptin had no significant effect on dopamine release evoked by direct depolarization of the terminals with elevated extracellular K+, suggesting that nociceptin suppresses dopamine release by modulating the firing rate of the dopamine neurons. Nociceptin also suppressed GABA release from the cultures (45% maximal inhibition; EC50=1.63 nM). Application of the GABA-A antagonist, bicuculline, elevated extracellular dopamine concentrations but the dopamine release inhibiting property of nociceptin persisted in the presence of bicuculline. The NMDA receptor antagonist, D(-)-2-amino-5-phosphononpentanoic acid (AP-5) had no effect on basal dopamine release and failed to modify nociceptin's inhibitory effects. Thus, nociceptin potently modulates dopamine release from midbrain neurons most likely as a result of a direct suppression of dopamine neuronal activity.
The organization of the efferent projections from the spinal trigeminal nucleus oralis (Sp5O) to the diencephalon was studied in the rat using the anterograde tracer Phaseolus vulgaris leucoagglutinin. The present study confirms the existence of trigemino-thalamic pathways originating from the Sp5O and details their distribution. The main diencephalic targets of the Sp5O are the ventral posteromedial thalamic nucleus (VPM), the posterior thalamic nuclei (Po) and the ventral part of the zona incerta (ZIv), contralaterally, and the parvicellular part of the ventral posterior thalamic nucleus (VPpc), bilaterally. The distribution of these projections varies according to the dorso-ventral location of the injection sites: the dorsal part of the Sp5O projects to the medial part of the VPM and the Po, and to the caudal part of the ZIv, as well as to the VPpc. The ventral part of the Sp5O projects to the lateral part of the VPM and the Po and to the rostral part of the ZIv. These results suggest that the trigemino-diencephalic pathways originating from the Sp5O are involved in the processing of gustatory and somatosensory information.
Increased serum levels of S100B are positively correlated with multiple forms of CNS damage, such as stroke, CNS trauma and neurodegenerative diseases, but also in psychiatric disorders. However, it is currently not known whether increased serum levels of S100B reflect a neuroregenerative or neurodegenerative response. Since glutamate receptor overactivation (excitotoxicity) may contribute to neuronal pathology in psychiatric disorders, we investigated the effect of S100B on N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA)-induced neuronal cell death. Here we demonstrate that very low concentrations of S100B significantly protect primary rat hippocampal neurons against NMDA toxicity by activation of transcription factors of the Rel/nuclear factor kappaB (NF-kappaB) family. Further experiments suggest that i) S100B activated expression of the receptor of advanced glycation products (RAGE) gene in neurons and ii) S100B induced a unique composition of the active NF-kappaB complex consisting of the p65 and c-Rel subunits suggesting a novel mechanism for NF-kappaB activation involved in S100B-mediated neuroprotection. Our data suggest that S100B secreted during the glial response to brain injury potently activates p65/c-Rel in a RAGE-dependent manner and may exert neuroprotective and neuroregenerative effects in psychiatric disorders.
The stable and specific locking-in of pre- and postsynaptic membranes in synaptogenesis may be mediated by integral membrane proteins, such as members of the cadherin family. Cadherins are ideal candidate molecules for mediating synaptic specificity because they are differentially expressed in functionally connected brain structures. We studied the expression of four classic cadherins (R-cadherin, N-cadherin, cadherin-6B and cadherin-7) at the synaptic level on the somata and the proximal neurites of identified neuron populations that were traced selectively in the developing chicken visual system. Three major findings were observed. (1) Synapses on somata of shepherd's crook cells of the optic tectum are associated preferentially with one cadherin subtype. (2) In an isthmic nucleus that contains a mixed population of cells expressing different cadherins, somatic synapses tend to express the same cadherin subtype as the rest of the cell. (3) In the oculomotor complex, two cadherin subtypes are expressed only by synapses on the axon hillock. However, another neuron type that projects from the tectum to the isthmic nucleus does not show such selective synaptic cadherin staining. Our findings support the idea that a cadherin-based adhesive mechanism can mediate synaptic specificity.
