Conventional tests of behavioral phenotyping frequently have difficulties differentiating certain genotypes and replicating these differences across laboratories and protocol conditions. This study explores the hypothesis that automated tests can be designed to quantify ethologically relevant behavior patterns that more readily characterize heritable and replicable phenotypes. It used SEE (Strategy for the Exploration of Exploration) to phenotype the locomotor behavior of the C57BL/6 and DBA/2 mouse inbred strains across 3 laboratories. The 2 genotypes differed in 15 different measures of behavior, none of which had a significant genotype-laboratory interaction. Within the same laboratory, most of these differences were replicated in additional experiments despite the test photoperiod phase being changed and saline being injected. Results suggest that well-designed tests may considerably enhance replicability across laboratories.
Intestinal pseudo-obstruction is defined as a clinical syndrome characterized by impairment of intestinal propulsion, which may resemble intestinal obstruction, in the absence of a mechanical cause. It may involve the small and/or the large bowel, and may present in acute, subacute or chronic forms. We have performed a systematic review of acute pseudo-obstruction, also referred to as Ogilvie's syndrome in the literature, and focused on proposed mechanisms, manifestations and management of post-surgery and critically ill patients who suffer from one or more underlying clinical conditions. The hallmark of the syndrome is massive intestinal distension, which is detected on clinical inspection and plain abdominal radiography. The underlying pathophysiological mechanisms are not fully understood. Therefore, treatment focuses on preventing intestinal perforation, which is associated with an average 21% mortality rate.
Protective effects of quinic acids from Aster scaber on tetrahydropapaveroline (THP)-induced cell toxicity were evaluated in rat C6 glioma cells. Among 4 quinic acid derivatives tested, (-) 4,5-dicaffeoyl quinic acid (QA3) exhibited the highest protective effect against THP-induced cell toxicity. C6 cells treated with THP exhibited the decrease in the survival rate and activities of glutathione peroxidase and catalase, but increased the level of malondialdehyde and superoxide dismutase activity. Staining C6 cells with propidium iodide and Hoechst 33342 revealed that 10 microM of THP treatment caused to necrotic and apoptotic cell death. However, preincubation of cells with QA3 prior to THP exposure recovered the cell survival rate and activities of antioxidant enzymes to control level. Taken together, the results indicate that QA3 might be a potential agent for treating or preventing diseases with oxidative stress.
We have demonstrated that continuous administration of a gonadotropin-releasing hormone agonist (GnRH-Ag) in vivo suppressed progesterone production and induced apoptosis in the corpus luteum (CL) of the pregnant rat. To investigate the mechanism(s) by which progesterone secretion is suppressed and apoptosis is induced in the luteal cells, we studied nitric oxide (NO) as a messenger molecule for GnRH action. Rats were treated individually on Day 8 of pregnancy with 5 microg/day of GnRH-Ag for 4, 8, and 24 h. GnRH-Ag decreased the production of progesterone and pregnenolone 8 and 24 h after the administration. Corresponding with the reduction in these steroid hormones, luteal NO concentrations decreased at 8 and 24 h. Western blotting and immunohistochemical studies of endothelial nitric oxide synthase (eNOS), inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS), and neuronal nitric oxide synthase (nNOS) in the CL demonstrated that administration of GnRH-Ag was associated with a marked decrease in eNOS and iNOS compared with sham controls at 4 and 8 h, but nNOS did not change throughout the experimental period. We demonstrated, for the first time, the presence of nNOS protein in the CL of the pregnant rat. To determine if this suppressive action of GnRH-Ag is directly on the CL, luteal cells were treated with GnRH-Ag for 4, 8, 12, and 24 h in vitro. Progesterone and NO concentrations in the media decreased at 8 and 12 h after the treatment and recovered at 24 h. Western blots revealed that eNOS and iNOS decreased in luteal cells treated with GnRH-Ag compared with controls at 4 and 8 h. These results demonstrate that suppression of luteal NO synthesis by GnRH-Ag is direct and leads to a decrease in the luteal production and release of progesterone and pregnenolone and thus suggest that GnRH could induce luteolysis in pregnant rats via NO.


The authors present four patients with a history of high dose cranial irradiation, who were diagnosed years later to have symptomatic meningiomas requiring surgical management. Relevant literature pertaining to these rare tumours is reviewed and their unusual characteristics highlighted. Their aetio-pathogenesis and management strategies are discussed.
1 Neuropeptide Y (NPY), peptide YY (PYY) and pancreatic polypeptide (PP) differentially activate three Y receptors (Y(1), Y(2) and Y(4)) in mouse and human isolated colon. 2 The aim of this study was to characterise Y(2) receptor-mediated responses in colon mucosa and longitudinal smooth muscle preparations from wild type (Y(2)+/+) and knockout (Y(2)-/-) mice and to compare the former with human mucosal Y agonist responses. Inhibition of mucosal short-circuit current and increases in muscle tone were monitored in colonic tissues from Y(2)+/+ and Y(2)-/- mice+/-Y(1) ((R)-N-[[4-(aminocarbonylaminomethyl)phenyl)methyl]-N(2)-(diphenylacetyl)-argininamide-trifluoroacetate (BIBO3304) or Y(2) (S)-N(2)-[[1-[2-[4-[(R,S)-5,11-dihydro-6(6H)-oxodibenz[b,e]azepin-11-yl]-1-piperazinyl]-2-oxoethyl]cyclopentyl]acetyl]-N-[2-[1,2-dihydro-3,5(4H)-dioxo-1,2-diphenyl-3H-1,2,4-triazol-4-yl]ethyl]-argininamide (BIIE0246) antagonists. 3 Predictably, Y(2)-/- tissues were insensitive to Y(2)-preferred agonist PYY(3-36) (&lt;/=100 nM), but unexpectedly Y(4)-preferred PP responses were right-shifted probably as a consequence of elevated circulating PP levels, particularly in male Y(2)-/- mice (Sainsbury et al., 2002). 4 BIBO3304 and BIIE0246 elevated mucosal ion transport, indicating blockade of inhibitory mucosal tone in Y(2)+/+ tissue. While BIBO3304 effects were unchanged, those to BIIE0246 were absent in Y(2)-/- mucosae. Neither antagonist altered muscle tone; however, BIIE0246 blocked NPY and PYY(3-36) increases in Y(2)+/+ basal tone. BIBO3304 abolished residual Y(1)-mediated NPY responses in Y(2)-/- smooth muscle. 5 Tetrodotoxin significantly reduced BIIE0246 and PYY(3-36) effects in Y(2)+/+ mouse and human mucosae, but had no effect upon Y-agonist contractile responses, indicating that Y(2) receptors are located on submucosal, but not myenteric neurones. 6 Tonic activation of submucosal Y(2) receptors by endogenous NPY, PYY or PYY(3-36) could indirectly reduce mucosal ion transport in murine and human colon, while direct activation of Y(2) receptors on longitudinal muscle results in contraction.
(1) Bombesin (BN), originally isolated from amphibians, is structurally related to a family of BN-like peptides found in mammals, which include gastrin-releasing peptide (GRP) and neuromedin B (NMB). These peptides have important effects on secretion, smooth muscle contraction, metabolism and behavior. Here we report cloning and characterization of two subtypes of BN-like peptide receptors in Aves. (2) The amino-acid sequence of chick GRP-R (chGRP-R) is highly identical with mammalian and amphibian GRP-R, and this receptor showed high affinity for GRP, BN and synthetic bombesin agonist, [D-Phe(6), beta-Ala(11), Phe(13), Nle(14)]bombesin(6-14) ([FAFNl]BN(6-14)). The chGRP-R gene was localized to chicken chromosome 1q23distal-q24proximal, where chick homologs of other human X-linked genes have also been mapped. (3) ChBRS-3.5, having sequence similarities to both mammalian bombesin-like peptide receptor subtype-3 and amphibian bombesin-like peptide receptor subtype-4, showed high affinity for [FAFNl]BN(6-14), moderate affinity for BN, but low affinity for both GRP and NMB. (4) Expression of both receptors was detected in brain, but only chGRP-R was expressed in gastrointestinal (GI) tissues. (5) When expressed in Chinese hamster ovary K1 cells, these receptors mediate intracellular calcium mobilization upon agonist stimulation. These results suggest that a novel BN peptide may occur in Aves as an endogenous ligand for chBRS-3.5. (6) The receptor sequences responsible for ligand selectivities were discussed and this knowledge about avian BN-like peptide receptors will help us to understand the molecular basis for agonist sensitivities of BN-like peptide receptors.
(1) We have investigated the properties of native and haemagglutinin (HA)-tagged neuropeptide Y (NPY) Y(1) receptors after mutation of the palmitoylation site Cys(337) to Ser or Ala. (2) In Chinese hamster ovary cells expressing similar receptor levels, the C337A mutation abolished incorporation of [(3)H]palmitic acid into the HA-Y(1) receptor. (3) Cys(337) substitution did not alter the affinities of Y(1) receptor agonists or antagonists, but it eliminated the ability of guanosine-5'-O-(3-thio)triphosphate (GTPgammaS) to displace [(125)I]PYY-specific binding (compared to approximately 50% inhibition in Y(1) or HA-Y(1) clones). (4) Stimulation of GTPgamma[(35)S] binding by native and HA-Y(1) receptors in standard incubation buffer (100 mM NaCl, 10 micro M GDP) was prevented by Cys(337) mutation. In this assay, the function of Y(1)(C337S) receptors could be partially rescued by reducing the Na(+) concentration, and when overexpressed (B(max): approximately 10 pmol mg(-1)), both HA-Y(1) and HA-Y(1)(C337A) receptors displayed similar responses to NPY and peptide YY (PYY). (5) In stably transfected adenocarcinoma cells expressing Y(1) or Y(1)(C337S) receptors, PYY inhibited anion secretion stimulated by vasoactive intestinal peptide (VIP; measured as short-circuit current, I(SC)) with similar potency (EC(50): 26-53 nM). In contrast to the transient Y(1) receptor-mediated responses observed at maximal PYY concentrations, I(SC) reductions in both Y(1)(C337S) clones were sustained. (6) We conclude that nonpalmitoylation of the Y(1) receptor reduces its coupling efficiency to G proteins, and may also indirectly influence desensitisation processes that depend on the formation of an active agonist-receptor conformation.


Restless legs syndrome (RLS) is a common neurological disorder characterized by an irresistible desire to move the extremities associated with paraesthesia/dysaesthesia. These symptoms occur predominantly at rest and worsen at night, resulting in nocturnal insomnia and chronic sleep deprivation. In this paper, we show significant evidence of linkage to a new locus for RLS on chromosome 14q13-21 region in a 30-member, three-generation Italian family affected by RLS and periodic leg movements in sleep (PLMS). This is the second RLS locus identified so far and the first consistent with an autosomal dominant inheritance pattern. The new RLS critical region spans 9.1 cM, between markers D14S70 and D14S1068. The maximum two-point log of odds ratio score value, of 3.23 at theta = 0.0, was obtained for marker D14S288. The accurate clinical evaluation of RLS-affected, as well as unaffected, family members allowed for the configuring of RLS as a phenotypic spectrum ranging from PLMS to RLS. Motor component, both while awake and during sleep, was an important aspect of the phenotype in the family analysed. The complementary clinical and genetic studies on multiplex families are likely to be of the utmost importance in unfolding the complete expressivity of RLS phenotype spectrum.
Recovery of motor function after stroke may occur over weeks or months and is often attributed to neuronal reorganization. Functional imaging studies investigating patients who have made a good recovery after stroke have suggested that recruitment of other motor-related networks underlies this recovery. However, patients with less complete recovery have rarely been studied, or else the degree of recovery has not been taken into account. We set out to investigate the relationship between the degree of recovery after stroke and the pattern of recruitment of brain regions during a motor task as measured using functional MRI. We recruited 20 patients who were at least 3 months after their first ever stroke, and 26 right-handed age-matched control subjects. None of our patients had infarcts involving the hand region of the primary motor cortex. All subjects were scanned whilst performing an isometric, dynamic visually paced handgrip task. The degree of functional recovery of each patient was assessed using a battery of outcome measures. Single-patient versus control group analysis revealed that patients with poor recovery were more likely to recruit a number of motor-related brain regions over and above those seen in the control group during the motor task, whereas patients with more complete recovery were more likely to have 'normal' task-related brain activation. Across the whole patient group and across stroke subtypes, we were able to demonstrate a negative correlation between outcome and the degree of task-related activation in regions such as the supplementary motor area, cingulate motor areas, premotor cortex, posterior parietal cortex, and cerebellum. This negative correlation was also seen in parts of both contralateral and ipsilateral primary motor cortex. These results further our understanding of the recovery process by demonstrating for the first time a clear relationship between task-related activation of the motor system and outcome after stroke.
In 20-30% of potential surgical candidates with refractory focal epilepsy, standard MRI does not identify the cause. gamma-Aminobutyric acid (GABA) is the principal inhibitory neurotransmitter in the brain. [(11)C]Flumazenil (FMZ) PET images most subtypes of GABA(A) receptors, present on most neurons. We investigated [(11)C]FMZ binding in grey and white matter in 16 normal controls and in 44 patients with refractory neocortical focal epilepsy and normal optimal MRI. Fourteen patients had unilateral frontal lobe epilepsy, five occipital lobe epilepsy (OLE), six parietal lobe epilepsy (PLE) and 19 neocortical epilepsy that was not clearly lobar. Parametric images of FMZ volume of distribution (FMZ-V(d)) were computed. Statistical parametric mapping (SPM99) with explicit masking, including the white matter, was used to analyse individual patients and groups. Thirty-three of the 44 patients showed focal abnormal FMZ-V(d); increases in 16, decreases in eight, and both increases and decreases in nine. In seven patients, the increases in FMZ binding were periventricular, in locations normally seen in periventricular nodular heterotopia on MRI. There were frontal and parietal increases in FMZ binding in grey and white matter in the PLE group and decreases in the cingulate gyrus in the OLE group. FMZ binding increases, particularly periventricular increases, were a prominent feature of MRI-negative focal epilepsies and may represent neuronal migration disturbances.
This brief commentary highlights seven sins in the study of emotion that are explicitly treated in contemporary affective neuroscience. These sins are (1) Affect and cognition are subserved by separate and independent neural circuits; (2) Affect is subcortical; (3) Emotions are in the head; (4) Emotions can be studied from a purely psychological perspective; (5) Emotions are similar in structure across age and species; (6) Specific emotions are instantiated in discrete locations in the brain; and (7) Emotions are conscious feeling states. Each of these is briefly discussed and evidence from affective neuroscience that bears on these sins is noted. The articles in this Special Issue underscore the vitality of research in affective neuroscience and illustrate how some of these sins can be addressed and rectified using concepts and methods from affective neuroscience.
It has been recently shown that human adolescents with Attention Deficit/Hyperactivity Disorder (ADHD) have frontal lobe deficits, especially on the right sides of their brains (). ADHD is commonly treated with psychostimulants which may have adverse consequences. Hence, less invasive therapies need to be developed. In the present work, we tested the ability of right frontal lesions to induce hyperactivity in rats. We also evaluated the effects of chronic play therapy during early adolescence to reduce both hyperactivity and the elevated playfulness later in development. Play therapy was able to reduce both hyperactivity and excessive playfulness. In additional work, we found that access to rough-and-tumble play in normal animals could enhance subsequent behavioral indices of behavioral inhibition (i.e., freezing in response to a startle stimulus) that appeared to be independent of increased fearfulness and fatigue. Overall, these results suggest that (1) neonatal frontal lobe lesions can be used as an animal model of the overactivity in ADHD and (2) rough-and-tumble play therapy may be a new useful treatment for ADHD.
This study tested the hypothesis that the recognition of emotions would draw upon anatomically separable brain regions, depending on whether the stimuli were static or explicitly conveyed information regarding actions. We investigated the hypothesis in a rare subject with extensive bilateral brain lesions, patient B., by administering tasks that assessed recognition and naming of emotions from visual and verbal stimuli, some of which depicted actions and some of which did not. B. could not recognize any primary emotion other than happiness, when emotions were shown as static images or given as single verbal labels. By contrast, with the notable exception of disgust, he correctly recognized primary emotions from dynamic displays of facial expressions as well as from stories that described actions. Our findings are consistent with the idea that information about actions is processed in occipitoparietal and dorsal frontal cortices, all of which are intact in B.'s brain. Such information subsequently would be linked to knowledge about emotions that depends on structures mapping somatic states, many of which are also intact in B.'s brain. However, one of these somatosensory structures, the insula, is bilaterally damaged, perhaps accounting for B.'s uniformly impaired recognition of disgust (from both static and action stimuli). Other structures that are damaged in B.'s brain, including bilateral inferior and anterior temporal lobe and medial frontal cortices, appear to be critical for linking perception of static stimuli to recognition of emotions. Thus the retrieval of knowledge regarding emotions draws upon widely distributed and partly distinct sets of neural structures, depending on the attributes of the stimulus.
Facial expressions are one example of emotional behavior that illustrate the importance of emotions to both basic survival and social interaction. Basic facial responses to stimuli such as sweet and bitter taste are important for species fitness and governed by simple rules. Even at this basic level, facial responses have communicative value to other species members. During evolution simple facial responses were extended for use in more complex nonverbal communications; the responses are labile. The perception and production of facial expressions are cognitive processes and numerous subcortical and cortical areas contribute to these operations. We suggest that no specific emotion center exists over and above cognitive systems in the brain, and that emotion should not be divorced from cognition.
This article summarizes recent conceptual and empirical advances in understanding basic affective processes of hte mammalian brain and how we might distinguish affective from cognitive processes. Six reasons are advanced for distinguishing the two types of consciousness, including (i) the presence of experienced valence, (ii) cortical sub-cortical locus of control, (iii) different developmental trajectories, (iv) informational vs organic considerations, (v) differences in bodily expressions, (vi) differences in cerebral laterality. The position is advanced that to make progress on understanding the neurobiological nature of affect, we need to utilize experimental strategies different from those that are common in cognitive science.
Different types of syntactic information (word category, grammatical gender) are processed at different times during word recognition. However, it is an open issue which brain systems support these processes. In the present event-related fMRI study, subjects performed either a syntactic gender decision task on German nouns (GEN), a word category decision task (WC, nouns vs. prepositions), or a physical baseline task (BASE). Reaction times in WC were faster than in GEN, supporting earlier electrophysiological results. Relative to BASE, both syntactic tasks activated the inferior tip of BA 44. In addition, BA 45 showed activation in GEN, whereas BA 47 was activated in WC. The imaging data indicate that the inferior portion of BA 44 together with type-specific prefrontal areas supports both initial word category related and later syntactic processes.
Brain processes underlying spoken language comprehension comprise auditory encoding, prosodic analysis and linguistic evaluation. Auditory encoding usually activates both hemispheres while language-specific stages are lateralized: analysis of prosodic cues are right-lateralized while linguistic evaluation is left-lateralized. Here, we investigated to what extent the absence of prosodic information influences lateralization. MEG brain-responses indicated that syntactic violations lead to early bi-lateral brain responses for syntax violations. When the pitch of sentences was flattened to diminish prosodic cues, the brain's syntax response was lateralized to the right hemisphere, indicating that the missing pitch was generated automatically by the brain when it was absent. This represents a Gestalt phenomenon, since we perceive more than is actually presented.
The neural mechanisms underlying recovery of cognitive functions are incompletely understood. Aim of this study was to assess, using functional magnetic resonance (fMRI), the pattern of brain activity during covert word retrieval to letter and semantic cues in five aphasic patients after stroke, in order to assess the modifications of brain function which may be related to recovery. Four out of five patients had undergone language recovery, according to standard testing, after at least 6 months of rehabilitation. The cerebral activation of each patient was evaluated and compared with the activation pattern of normal controls studied with the same fMRI paradigm. In the patients, the pattern of brain activation was influenced by the site and extent of the lesion, by the degree of recovery of language, as reflected by task performance outside the scanner, and by task requirements. In the case of word retrieval to letter cues, a good performance was directly related to the activation in Broca's area, or in the right-sided homologue. On the other hand, in the case of semantic fluency, the relationship between performance level and activation was less clear-cut, because of extensive recruitment of frontal areas in patients with defective performance. These findings suggest that the performance in letter fluency is dependent on the integrity of the left inferior frontal cortex, with the participation of the homologous right hemispheric region when the left inferior frontal cortex is entirely of partially damaged. Semantic fluency, which engages the distributed network of semantic memory, is also associated with more extensive patterns of cerebral activation, which however appear to reflect retrieval effort rather than retrieval success.
Based on the results of recent electrophysiological and anatomical studies, we argue that the classical division of the entorhinal cortex (EC) into a superficial layer input station and deep layer output station is no longer tenable. We point out that the anatomical data suggest that the medial and lateral divisions of EC are separate, and recent studies of the propagation of signals originating in the lateral olfactory tract and perirhinal cortex to the EC [J. Neurophysiol. 83 (2000) 1924-1931; Biella and de Curtis, 2000) indicate that the lateral division is the input station, and the medial division the output station for information processed in the hippocampus and subiculum.
The striatum has recently been implicated as an area that may mediate age-associated cognitive decline because of diminution of volume and functional activity. We used 18F-fluorodeoxyglucose (FDG) with positron emission tomography (PET) and high-resolution magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) to examine the effects of age on striatal glucose metabolic rate and size in 70 healthy, normal subjects. During the FDG tracer uptake period, subjects performed a serial verbal learning task, based on the California Verbal Learning Test. PET images were co-registered to the MR images. The interrelations among striatal glucose metabolic rate, size, and performance on the verbal learning task were examined with repeated-measures analysis of variance and correlational analysis. As age increased, relative glucose metabolic rate (GMR) increased in the putamen and decreased in the caudate. Female subjects had lower relative GMR than male subjects in the caudate, but equal in the putamen. Striatal size remained relatively constant across the lifespan in men but was lower in women aged 50-70 than in men. While there were significant associations between striatal activity and performance on the uptake task, these findings were mostly accounted for by age. The findings are consistent with our earlier report on the same cohort that demonstrated an age-related shift from anterior to posterior cortical metabolism, as the putamen receives primarily posterior cortical input and the caudate receives relatively more anterior cortical input. Findings of significant involvement of striatal functioning in verbal learning are most likely accounted for by age and suggest an age-related shift from anterior to posterior circuitry in the human telencephalon.

Taxol potently blocks mitosis at the transition from metaphase to anaphase, leading to apoptosis in many types of tumor cells. However, the precise mechanism of action of Taxol is not understood. Here we have tested the hypothesis that a primary mechanism of action of Taxol involves suppression of spindle microtubule dynamics. We have used centromere-binding protein B coupled to green fluorescent protein as a marker for the kinetochores and centromeres of chromosomes and analyzed the effects of low Taxol concentrations on the dynamics of centromeres during metaphase of mitosis in living human osteosarcoma (U2OS) cells by quantitative time-lapse confocal microscopy. In the absence of Taxol, the centromere pairs on attached sister chromatids alternately stretch apart and relax back together approximately 1.2 times/min due to tension on the kinetochores produced by the spindle microtubules (referred to here as centromere dynamics). We found that 50-100 nM Taxol significantly suppressed centromere dynamics. For example, Taxol reduced the mean separation distance between the sister centromeres from 0.73 to 0.65 microm, a distance equivalent to that observed in the complete absence of microtubules. The frequency of transitions between stretching and relaxing was also significantly diminished by Taxol (by 27%-35%). The suppressive effects of Taxol on centromere dynamics were associated with maximal accumulation of cells at mitosis (63%), a &gt;90% block of the metaphase/anaphase transition, and complete inhibition of cell proliferation. The data strongly support the idea that the inhibition of centromere dynamics by Taxol prevents silencing of the mitotic spindle surveillance (checkpoint) mechanism. Because Taxol strongly suppresses microtubule dynamics, the data also indicate that centromere dynamics can be accounted for by microtubule dynamics and may not require significant energetic contributions from microtubule motors. The strict correlation between the degree of suppression of centromere dynamics by Taxol and the degree of mitotic block strongly indicates that the primary mechanism responsible for the mitotic block by Taxol in U2OS cells involves suppression of the polymerization dynamics of kinetochore microtubules.
The aberrant splicing isoform (PS2V), generated by exon 5 skipping of the Presenilin-2 (PS2) gene transcript, is a diagnostic feature of sporadic Alzheimer's disease (AD). We found PS2V is hypoxia-inducible in human neuroblastoma SK-N-SH cells. We purified a responsible trans-acting factor based on its binding to an exon 5 fragment. The factor was identified as the high mobility group A1a protein (HMGA1a; formerly HMG-I). HMGA1a bound to a specific sequence on exon 5, located upstream of the 5' splice site. HMGA1a expression was induced by hypoxia and the protein was accumulated in the nuclear speckles with the endogenous splicing factor SC35. Overexpression of HMGA1a generated PS2V, but PS2V was repressed by cotransfection with the U1 snRNP 70K protein that has a strong affinity to HMGA1a. HMGA1a could interfere with U1 snRNP binding to the 5' splice site and caused exon 5 skipping. HMGA1a levels were significantly increased in the brain tissue from sporadic AD patients. We propose a novel mechanism of sporadic AD that involves HMGA1a-induced aberrant splicing of PS2 pre-mRNA in the absence of any mutations.
The physiological role of the metallothionein (MT) family of proteins during peripheral nerve injury and regeneration was examined in Mt1+ 2 and Mt3 knockout (KO) mice. To this end, the right sciatic nerve was crushed, and the regeneration distance was evaluated by the pinch test 2-7 days postlesion (dpl) and electrophysiologically at 14 dpl. The quality of the regeneration was assessed by light microscopy and immunohistochemical methods. The results show that the regeneration distance was greater in the Mt3 KO than in the Mt1+ 2 KO mice, whereas control mice showed intermediate values. Moreover, the number of regenerating axons in the distal tibial nerve was significantly higher in Mt3KO mice than in the other two strains at 14 dpl. Immunoreactive profiles to protein gene product 9.5 were present in the epidermis and the sweat glands of the plantar skin of the hindpaw of the Mt3 KO group. The improved regeneration observed with the Mt3 KO mice was confirmed by compound nerve action potentials that were recorded from digital nerves at 14 dpl only in this group. We conclude that Mt3 normally inhibits peripheral nerve regeneration.
In the developing brain, postmitotic neurons exhibit dynamic changes in mode, direction, tempo and rate of migration as they traverse different cortical layers. Such changes in cell migration require orchestrated activities of multiple guidance cues and transmembrane signals. In this article, we first describe when, where and how cerebellar granule cells alter their migratory behavior during the entire course of their migration. We then present how internal (inherent) programs regulate the sequential changes in the migratory behavior of granule cells in vitro. Finally, we discuss the roles of external guidance cues and transmembrane signals in controlling granule cell migration.
1. AMPA receptor potentiators (ARPs) exhibit antidepressant-like activity in preclinical tests (for example, the forced swim test) that are highly predictive of efficacy in humans. Unlike most currently used antidepressants, ARPs do not elevate extracellular levels of biogenic amines (e.g., 5HT, NE) in prefrontal cortex at doses that are active in the forced swim test. 2. The present series of experiments examined the effects of combining the ARP, LY 392098, with biogenic amine-based antidepressants in the forced swim test. Male, NIH Swiss mice were placed in a cylinder of water and observed for attempted escape behaviors and immobility. 3. LY 392098 dose-dependently decreased immobility as did a range of classical antidepressants. At doses of LY 392098 below those that decreased immobility, this compound significantly increased the potency with which fluoxetine and citalopram (SSRI antidepressants), imipramine (tricyclic antidepressant), duoxetine (norepinephrine/serotonin uptake blocker), nisoxetine (norepinephrine uptake inhibitor), and rolipram (PDE4 inhibitor) decreased immobility in the forced swim test with potency shifts upward of 5-fold (fluoxetine, imipramine, and rolipram). Likewise, ineffective doses of the traditional antidepressants potentiated the effects LY 392098 with shifts in the dose-effect functions that were 10-fold or more for citalopram, fluoxetine, imipramine, and duloxetine. 4. Combined with other evidence for a role of AMPA receptors in the efficacy of antidepressants, the current data suggest that the addition of an ARP may augment the activity and perhaps the onset of the therapeutic effects of biogenic amine and second messenger-based antidepressants.
The regeneration of sensory nerve fibres is regulated by trophic factors released from their target tissue, particularly the basal epidermis, and matrix molecules. Means to modulate this response may be useful for the treatment of neuromas and painful hypertrophic scars and of sensory deficits in skin grafts and flaps. We have developed an in vitro model of sensory neuron regeneration on human skin in order to study the mechanisms of sensory dysfunction in pathological conditions. Adult rat sensory neurons were co-cultured with unfixed cryosections of normal or injured (crushed) human skin for 72 h. Neurons were immunostained for growth-associated protein-43 and the neurite lengths of neuronal cell bodies situated in various skin regions were measured. Two-way analysis of variance was performed. Neurites of sensory cell bodies on epidermis of normal skin were the shortest, with a mean +/- SEM of 75+/-10 micrometer, whereas those of cells on the dermo-epidermal junction were the longest, with a mean +/- SEM of 231+/-18 micrometer. Neurons on the dermo-epidermal junction of injured skin had significantly longer neurites than those on the same region of normal skin (mean +/- SEM = 289+/-21 micrometer). Regeneration of sensory neurons may be influenced by extracellular matrix molecules, matrix-binding growth factors and trophic factors. Altered substrate or trophic factors in injured skin may explain the increase of neurite lengths. This in vitro model may be useful for studying the molecular mechanisms of sensory recovery and the development of neuropathic pain following peripheral nerve injury.
The purpose of this study was to assess the sensitivity of 5-HT(1D) receptors in patients with episodic cluster headache using sumatriptan as a pharmacological probe. The drug, a selective 5-HT(1B/1D) agonist, stimulates the secretion of growth hormone and inhibits the release of prolactin, adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH) and cortisol. These effects may be used to explore the function of serotonergic systems in vivo. We administered subcutaneous sumatriptan and placebo to 20 patients with cluster headache (10 in the active phase and 10 in the remission period) and to 12 controls. The sumatriptan-induced increase of growth hormone concentrations was significantly (P &lt; 0.05) blunted in patients with active cluster headache. Prolactin and ACTH responses to the drug were significantly (P &lt; 0.05) reduced in patients with cluster headache, both in the active and in the remission period. Our results suggest that cerebral serotonergic functions mediated by 5-HT(1D) receptors are altered in patients with episodic cluster headache.
GABAergic interneurons perform crucial roles in cortical development and function. These roles are executed by a diversity of interneuron subtypes, and abnormal function of particular subtypes has been implicated in a variety of neuropsychiatric diseases. However, little is known about the mechanisms that generate interneuron diversity. This paper discusses the potential origins of interneuron subtypes. Evidence is reviewed that suggests bipolar calretinin expressing interneurons may have distinct origins from those that express parvalbumin or somatostatin. In addition, evidence is presented that migratory cells from the subcortical subventricular zone (SVZ) do not proliferate after migration into the cortical SVZ.
A model of cortical dysplasia results from disruption of the earliest generated neocortical cells. Injections of an antimitotic (methylazoxy methanol - MAM) into pregnant ferrets result in a constellation of effects, which include disruption of radial glia, with early differentiation in astrocytes, and impaired migration of neurons into the cortical plate. We found previously that culture of P0 MAM-treated slices with explants of normal cortical plate reorganizes the radial glia toward their normal morphology and improves migration of neurons into the cortical plate. This suggested that P0 normal cortical plate contains a 'factor' capable of providing reorganizing cues to disorganized developing cortex. The current study characterizes the biological activity in normal cortical plate by isolating fractions of different molecular weight obtained from conditioned media of organotypic cultures. The only media fraction capable of providing reorganizing activity to MAM-treated cortex was the molecular weight fraction between 30 and 50 kDa. Treatment designed to denature proteins demonstrated that the active molecular weight fraction (30-50 kDa) was not able to provide reorganizing cues when either heated or treated with Proteinase K. These data provide support for the idea that normal cortical plate of neonatal ferret contains a radialization factor that is a protein of 30-50 kDa.
It has been estimated that approximately 30% of the population is unable to detect the odor of androstenone. These estimates, however, were made using tests and criteria optimized for identifying detection. Such criteria favor Type II over Type I errors--that is, they are excellent at identifying true detectors at the cost of erroneously labeling some detectors as non-detectors. Because these criteria were used to identify non-detectors, it is possible that the rate of non-detection may have been overestimated. To test this we screened 55 subjects for non-detection employing previously used methods. This screen yielded nine putative non-detectors, a 16.3% putative non-detection rate. We then retested these putative non-detectors using a forced choice (yes-no) paradigm to obtain a precise measure of their sensitivity. We found that this group of putative non-detectors was significantly above chance at detecting androstenone (P &lt; 0.001), despite very low self-confidence in their performance. Based on the results of the signal detection analysis in this sample, we estimate the rate of actual androstenone non-detection in young healthy adults is between 1.8 and 5.96%, which is significantly lower than previously estimated. This finding is significant considering the implications of specific anosmias on the understanding of odor discrimination.
During the 1970s, the multiunit reactivity of the olfactory bulb to food odor was extensively shown to increase before their usual meal in rats habituated to having a single 2 h daily meal compared to the same rats recorded after their usual meal. More recently, we reported dramatic modifications of mitral cell single-unit reactivity in adult rats following a simple a manipulation of the olfactory environment--exposure to an odor. The present study aimed at testing the hypothesis that a simple behavioral change such as habituation to chronic food restriction may induce profound changes in olfactory bulb responsiveness compared to occasional fasting. We compared mitral cell reactivity in non-fasted rats, in rats fasted during 22 h for the very first time, and in rats habituated during 15 days to a chronic 22 h food restriction. Mitral cell single-unit reactivity was found to increase less in rats habituated to fasting than in newly fasted rats. Indeed, the proportion of mitral cell responses to food and non-food odors was significantly higher in rats habituated to fasting than in non-fasted rats, but lower than in newly fasted rats. The proportion of simple unsynchronized and synchronized responses of 1b and 2b types was also lower in habituated rats whereas the proportion of complex synchronized responses of 4b type increased. This decreased responsiveness in habituated rats, similar to that observed in rats repeatedly exposed for 20 min per day to an odor during six consecutive days in our previous studies, is discussed with respect to olfactory bulb plasticity.
Parental ratings of preschoolers' risk for injury, direct assessment of preschoolers' behavior thought related to risk for injury (e.g., Inattention, impulsivity) and number of documented injuries were examined in preschoolers with Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder (ADHD) and their non-ADHD peers (Control). Of preschoolers with ADHD, 58.3% exhibited behavior which placed them at-risk for physical injury (0% Control), and their performance was significantly poorer on clinic-based tests. Nonetheless, preschoolers with ADHD did not actually sustain significantly more injuries which warranted medical treatment in an emergency department. Although preschoolers with ADHD may be at increased risk for minor injuries, further research is needed to determine whether they more frequently sustain more serious injuries.

The diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease (AD) is still made by excluding other disorders with a similar clinical picture. In addition, an analysis of symptoms and signs, blood analyses and brain imaging are the major ingredients of the clinical diagnostic work-up. However, the sensitivity of a clinical diagnosis using these instruments is unsatisfactory and disease markers with high sensitivity and specificity for AD would be a welcome supplement. Ideally, such markers should reflect the pathophysiological mechanisms of AD, that is, according to the currently predominant hypothesis mismetabolism of beta-amyloid and neurofibrillary degeneration. Among several, we have focused on three candidates that have been suggested to fulfil the requirements for biomarkers of AD: beta-amyloid42 (Abeta42), total tau (T-tau) and tau phosphorylated at various epitopes (P-tau). The cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) levels of these proteins reflect the metabolism of these proteins in the central nervous system. Only published articles using established ELISA methods for the quantification of these markers in CSF and preferably also presenting sensitivity and specificity figures have been included in this review. The number of patients included in the different studies varies; some having included only a few patients. Furthermore, diagnostic criteria vary and clinicopathological studies are scarce. However, there are some large studies, including even minor studies, and most have found reduced CSF levels of Abeta42 and increased CSF levels of T-tau in AD. The sensitivity and specificity of these measures are high for separation of AD patients from controls, but their specificity against other dementias is moderate. It increases if P-tau is added. An increasing number of studies suggest that supplementary use of these CSF markers, preferably in combination, adds to the accuracy of an AD diagnosis.


Heterotrimeric G-proteins are molecular switches that couple serpentine receptors to intracellular effector pathways and the regulation of cell physiology. Ligand-bound receptors cause G-protein alpha subunits to bind guanosine 5'-triphosphate (GTP) and activate effector pathways. Signal termination is facilitated by the intrinsic GTPase activity of G-protein alpha subunits. Regulators of G-protein signaling (RGS) proteins accelerate the GTPase activity of the G-protein alpha subunit, and thus negatively regulate G-protein-mediated signal transduction. In vitro biochemical assays of heterotrimeric G-proteins commonly include measurements of nucleotide binding, GTPase activity, and interaction with RGS proteins. However, the conventional assays for most of these processes involve radiolabeled guanine nucleotide analogues and scintillation counting. In this article, we focus on fluorescence-based methodologies to study heterotrimeric G-protein alpha subunit regulation in vitro. Furthermore, we consider the potential of such techniques in high-throughput screening and drug discovery.
It is the central hypothesis of this paper that the mental states commonly referred to as altered states of consciousness are principally due to transient prefrontal cortex deregulation. Supportive evidence from psychological and neuroscientific studies of dreaming, endurance running, meditation, daydreaming, hypnosis, and various drug-induced states is presented and integrated. It is proposed that transient hypofrontality is the unifying feature of all altered states and that the phenomenological uniqueness of each state is the result of the differential viability of various frontal circuits. Using an evolutionary approach, consciousness is conceptualized as hierarchically ordered cognitive function. Higher-order structures perform increasingly integrative functions and thus contribute more sophisticated content. Although this implies a holistic approach to consciousness, such a functional hierarchy localizes the most sophisticated layers of consciousness in the zenithal higher-order structure: the prefrontal cortex. The hallmark of altered states of consciousness is the subtle modification of behavioral and cognitive functions that are typically ascribed to the prefrontal cortex. The theoretical framework presented yields a number of testable hypotheses.
Arnold Pick (1851-1924) provided the first description of the neurodegenerative disease associated with his name; but his importance to the field of neuroscience goes far beyond this eponymous gift. His view that the process of dementia should be seen as a mosaic of circumscribed neuropsychological deficits and not as a diffuse degradation of mental abilities is essential for progress in a cognitive neuropsychological approach to the study of dementias.
Nearly 100 years after their publication Hugo Liepmann's ideas are still influential for today's neuropsychology. This influence is, however, restricted to a small, albeit central, portion of his work. Cognizance of their wider biographical and scientific context may help to bring about a deeper understanding of their significance. This paper provides a comprehensive review of Liepmann's life and work. In the first part of this paper I try to give an impression of his life, his personality and his style as a clinician and as a scientific writer. The second part is a review of his ideas on cerebral localization of psychological function, and the third an account of his writings on apraxia. Finally, I briefly consider Liepmann's legacy and argue that the less well known parts of his writings are at least as topical today as are his famous papers on apraxia.
Omission and substitution of articles have often been mentioned as characteristics of agrammatic speech. In these descriptions, articles are considered to be so-called function words or closed-class words. These are supposed to be difficult for agrammatic speakers. From a linguistic point of view, the class of function words is far from homogeneous and even within the class of articles different linguistic properties can be distinguished. In many languages--Dutch, German, Italian and Portuguese are used as examples in this paper--the article is specified for gender. In German the article is specified for case as well. Gender and case differ from both a linguistic and a psycholinguistic point of view. Gender information is part of the word form. In some languages, gender can be derived from the word-form (as in Portuguese or Italian), while in other languages, the gender of nouns is stored as part of the word-form (as in Dutch and German). Case is a syntactic notion and relates to a dependency between the constituents in a sentence. Bearing in mind the fact that article production is impaired in agrammatic Broca's aphasia, one may wonder whether gender and/or case information plays a role here. For the present study, article production of nine Dutch and ten German individuals with agrammatic Broca's aphasia has been analyzed and the data show that most substitution errors concern case; the gender of the produced articles is usually correct. This supports the hypothesis that agrammatic speech is the consequence of an underlying deficit in syntactic processing.
The central nervous system plays a key role in the regulation of cardiovascular function, and alterations in the central neural mechanisms that control blood pressure may underlie the vast majority of cases of primary hypertension. The well-studied baroreceptor reflex powerfully regulates arterial pressure, though its involvement in the pathogenesis of chronic hypertension is likely to be only of minor importance. Supraspinal maintenance of sympathetic vasomotor outflow appears to emanate from neurons in the rostral ventrolateral medulla, and the tonic drive exerted on sympathetic vasomotor activity by the rostral ventrolateral medulla appears to be increased in several animal models of hypertension. In particular, the excitation of the rostral ventrolateral medulla by excitatory amino acid neurotransmitters and by stimulation of AT(1) angiotensin receptors appears to be increased in experimental hypertension. The current data support the view that neurogenic hypertension is mediated by increased excitatory drive of rostral ventrolateral medulla sympathoexcitatory neurons.
Protein misfolding and aggregation are common to most neurodegenerative diseases, suggesting that abnormalities of protein homeostasis contribute to pathogenesis. Research implicates at least two components of cellular protein quality control in disease: molecular chaperones and the ubiquitin-proteasome pathway (UPP). Although evidence is more compelling for chaperone involvement, recent cell-based and genetic studies suggest that perturbations in the UPP also contribute to neurodegenerative disease processes. UPP involvement in disease seems even more probable when the UPP is viewed not simply as an isolated degradation machine but rather as a complex cascade linked both to other ubiquitin-dependent processes and to chaperone systems.



Our understanding of the role of transcription factors in skeletal muscle vastly exceeds our ability to manipulate this class of proteins for therapeutic benefit. Transcription factors responsible for controlling the fate, growth, migration, proliferation, differentiation and regeneration of muscle cells have been identified, and additional factors involved in these processes continue to be discovered. These factors are often involved in multiple steps in muscle differentiation and can have redundant activities. As such, a detailed understanding of their intermolecular interactions and the gene programs they control is essential to the rational design of therapeutics. Mutations in transcription factors cause a number of muscle disorders. Moreover, the manipulation of transcriptional signals holds the promise of treating muscle diseases by exploiting the ability of muscle cells to regenerate after injury. Finally, several proteins have recently been shown to inhibit muscular dystrophy in mouse models. Because some of these proteins are enriched at the neuromuscular synapse, the manipulation of factors governing synaptic transcription is a promising new approach to the treatment of muscular dystrophy.
New imaging technology allows us to study neurologic disorders that have had no previous structural basis. There have been recent reports on the involvement of nociceptive pathways in daily headache. A systematic review was performed using key words &quot;chronic daily headache&quot; and &quot;imaging.&quot; This paper reviews the literature on imaging studies performed on daily headache with emphasis on the new imaging technology.
A recent Juan March Foundation workshop on &quot;wnt genes and Wnt signaling&quot; brought developmental and cancer biologists together to share some of the latest advances in Wnt research. Discussion topics included molecular, genetic, and genomic dissections of wnt genes in embryogenesis and cancer, Wnt signaling components and downstream targets, interactions with other signaling pathways, cell biological aspects of Wnt signaling, and a first glimpse of a purified Wnt protein.
NOTCH signaling plays a key role in cell fate determination in both vertebrates and invertebrates. It is well known that Su(H)/RBP-J is a major mediator of NOTCH signaling. In a previous study, it was shown that NOTCH signaling was involved in cranial neural crest formation in avian embryos. However, Su(H)/RBP-J activity did not appear to be required in this process. In this study, the Deltex/Dtx gene was focussed on as a potential mediator of NOTCH signaling in neural crest formation. At the time of neural crest formation, quail Deltex2 was expressed throughout the ectoderm. Misexpression of a dominant-negative form of Deltex in the ectoderm caused reduced expression of Slug, a neural crest marker. Dominant-negative Deltex expression reduced the expression of Bmp4, a neural crest inducer, whereas co-transfection of Bmp4 with dominant-negative Deltex rescued Slug expression. In parallel, Hairy2 expression in the epidermis was regulated by a Su(H)-dependent pathway. These results indicate that NOTCH signaling has dual functions mediated by either Su(H) or Deltex in the avian embryonic ectoderm.
In Drosophila, cell-fate determination of all neuroectoderm-derived glial cells depends on the transcription factor Glial cells missing (GCM), which serves as a binary switch between the neuronal and glial cell fates. Because the expression of GCM is restricted to the early phase of glial development, other factors must be responsible for the terminal differentiation of glial cells. Expression of three transcription factors, Reversed Polarity (REPO), Tramtrack p69 (TTK69) and PointedP1 (PNTP1), is induced by GCM in glial cells. REPO is a paired-like homeodomain protein, expressed exclusively in glial cells, and is required for the migration and differentiation of embryonic glial cells. To understand how REPO functions in glial terminal differentiation, we have analyzed the mechanism of gene regulation by REPO. We show that REPO can act as a transcriptional activator through the CAATTA motif in glial cells, and define three genes whose expression in vivo depends on REPO function. In different types of glial cells, REPO can act alone, or cooperate with either TTK69 or PNTP1 to regulate different target genes. Coordination of target gene expression by these three transcription factors may contribute to the diversity of glial cell types. In addition to promoting glial differentiation, we found that REPO is also necessary to suppress neuronal development, cooperating with TTK69. We propose that REPO plays a key role in both glial development and diversification.
In the mammalian cochlea, stereociliary bundles located on mechanosensory hair cells within the sensory epithelium are unidirectionally oriented. Development of this planar polarity is necessary for normal hearing as stereociliary bundles are only sensitive to vibrations in a single plane; however, the mechanisms governing their orientation are unknown. We report that Wnt signaling regulates the development of unidirectional stereociliary bundle orientation. In vitro application of Wnt7a protein or inhibitors of Wnt signaling, secreted Frizzled-related protein 1 or Wnt inhibitory factor 1, disrupts bundle orientation. Moreover, Wnt7a is expressed in a pattern consistent with a role in the polarization of the developing stereociliary bundles. We propose that Wnt signaling across the region of developing outer hair cells gives rise to planar polarity in the mammalian cochlea.
This study evaluated the respiratory indexes (respiratory control ratio [RCR] and ADP/O ratio), mitochondrial transmembrane potential (DeltaPsim), repolarization lag phase, repolarization level, ATP/ADP ratio, and induction of the permeability transition pore of brain mitochondria isolated from normal Wistar and GK diabetic rats of different ages (1.5, 12, and 24 months of age). The effect of amyloid beta-peptides, 50 micromol/l Abeta(25-35) or 2 micromol/l Abeta(1-40), on mitochondrial function was also analyzed. Aging of diabetic mice induced a decrease in brain mitochondrial RCR, ADP/O, and ATP/ADP ratios but induced an increase in the repolarization lag phase. Brain mitochondria from older diabetic rats were more prone to the induction of the permeability transition pore, i.e., mitochondria from 24-month-old diabetic rats accumulated much less Ca(2+) (20 micromol/l) than those isolated from 12-month-old rats (50 micromol/l) or 1.5-month-old rats (100 micromol/l). In the presence of 50 micromol/l Abeta(25-35) or 2 micromol/l Abeta(1-40), age-related mitochondrial effects were potentiated. These results indicate that diabetes-related mitochondrial dysfunction is exacerbated by aging and/or by the presence of neurotoxic agents such as amyloid beta-peptides, supporting the idea that diabetes and aging are risk factors for the neurodegeneration induced by these peptides.
Alcohol, nicotine, and caffeine are the most widely consumed psychotropic drugs worldwide. They are largely consumed by normal individuals, but their use is even more frequent in psychiatric patients, Thus, patients with schizophrenia tend to abuse all three substances. The interrelationships between depression and alcohol are complex. These drugs can all create dependence, as understood in the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders, Fourth Edition (DSM-IV). Alcohol abuse is clearly deleterious to the brain, provoking acute and chronic mental disorders, ranging from intoxication with impairment of cognition, to delirium tremens, halluosis, and dementia. In contrast, the main health consequences of nicotine, notably cancer and cardiovascular disases, lie outside the realm of psychiatry However, the mes of nicotine dependence and motivation to smoke or quit are of concern to psychiatrists.
Gene transfer technology has many potential applications in medicine. Phase I and phase II gene-based clinical trials have been conducted for the treatment of cancer, monogenic disorders, some neurodegenerative illnesses, cardiopathies and infectious diseases. A phase I gene therapy clinical trial has recently been approved for the treatment of Parkinson's disease, while preclinical studies are in progress to develop gene-based interventions for the treatment of Alzheimer's disease and Huntington's disease, amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, spinal cord injury, and diabetes type 1 and type 2. A number of gene transfer models have been generated for gene therapy and genetic immunization programs. Vector design is addressing several pressing issues in the matter of gene delivery improvement, stabilization of transgene expression and safety. This is necessary in order to achieve efficient gene-based therapeutic interventions. Indeed, considerable progress has been reported in the field of vector design, which has produced some encouraging results in clinical trials and preclinical studies. However, vector design should be further developed to allow for the successful application of gene transfer technology in therapy. This review summarizes the latest achievements and controversies in clinical trials and preclinical studies in the field of gene therapy.

Two-dimensional polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis (PAGE), together with 2-D gel electrophoresis (GE) analysis software, is a common technique to analyze a complex proteome. In order to accurately locate the differentially expressed proteins in human pituitary macroadenoma tissues in our long-term research program to clarify the molecular mechanisms of macroadenoma formation, a reproducible separation system is needed. An immobilized pH-gradient dry gel-strip (IPG strip) has been extensively used for first-dimensional isoelectric focusing (IEF), and has achieved a high degree of reproducibility in the IEF direction. For the second dimension (SDS-PAGE), different types of gel systems are available, including horizontal vs. vertical gel systems, and gradient vs. constant-percentage gels. A typical horizontal system is the Multiphor II system that analyzes one gel at a time, using a precast gradient gel (180 x 245 x 0.5 mm), and a typical vertical system is the Dodeca system, which analyzes up to 12 gels at a time, using usually a single-concentration gel (190 x 205 x 1 mm). The present study evaluated the spatial and quantitative reproducibility of the two systems for the separation of the complex human pituitary proteome. PDQuest software was used to analyze the digitized gel-image data, and SPSS statistical software was used to analyze the data. The results demonstrated a high percentage (&gt;99%) of protein-spot matches within each electrophoretic system. The Dodeca gel system demonstrated better between-gel reproducibility for spot position, higher resolution in the Sodium dodecyl sulfate (SDS)-PAGE direction, lower gel background, better spot quality, and higher reproducibility of the spot volume.
The long-term goal of this research program is to clarify the molecular mechanisms that participate in the formation of human pituitary macroadenomas. One approach to that goal is to characterize the differentially expressed proteins that are found by a comparison of the proteomes of control pituitary vs. macroadenoma tissues. In order to accurately perform a comparative proteomics study, based on the combination of two-dimensional polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis (2-D PAGE) and PDQuest 2-D analysis software, a reproducible 2-DE separation system with a wide linear dynamic measure range is needed. A typical horizontal system is the Multiphor II system that analyzes one gel at a time, using a precast gradient gel (180 x 245 x 0.5 mm); a typical vertical system is the Dodeca system that analyzes up to 12 gels at a time on a single-concentration gel (190 x 205 x 1.0 mm). We have evaluated (Zhan and Desiderio, Electrophoresis 2003, 24, 1834-1846) the spatial and quantitative reproducibility of the two second-dimensional gel systems to separate a human pituitary proteome; that study showed a higher reproducibility for the Dodeca gel system. This present study investigated the relationship between the spot volume and the amount of protein loaded onto the gel for those two 2-D systems. The results demonstrated that the Dodeca gel system provides a wider linear dynamic range to measure the changes in the protein abundance in pituitary proteome.
Oxidative stress has been recently considered as a mediator of nerve cell death in several neurodegenerative diseases. We studied the effect of the parkinsonism-inducing toxine 1-methyl-4-phenyl-pyridine (MPP+) on several parameters of cell distress using native and neuronal PC12 cells. Then, since estrogens have been reported to prevent neuronal degeneration caused by oxidative damage, we investigated the ability of 17beta- estradiol (E2); two Ginkgo biloba extracts, EGb 761 and Cp 202; as well as two flavonoids, quercetin and kaempferol, to rescue PC12 cells submitted to MPP+- induced oxidative stress. Our results consistently show that both Ginkgo biloba extracts could prevent cell death in native and neuronal PC12 cells, while in neuronal PC12 cells also quercetin and E2 could reverse MPP+ neurotoxic effet. Western blot analysis demonstrated that MPP+ injuries might modulate dopamine transporter (DAT) protein expression but not estrogen receptor beta (ERbeta) protein expression. EGb 761 and Cp 202 also modulate DAT and ERbeta protein expression in neuronal cells. From these studies, we outline the importance of testing estrogen-like plant-derived molecules as potent antioxidants and examine their effect on protein expression.
gamma-Aminobutyric acid (GABA) inhibits the embryonic migration of GnRH neurons and regulates hypothalamic GnRH release. A subset of GnRH neurons expresses GABA along their migratory route in the nasal compartment before entering the brain, suggesting that GABA produced by GnRH neurons may help regulate the migratory process. To examine this hypothesis and the possibility that persistence of GABA production by GnRH neurons may affect subsequent reproductive function, we generated transgenic mice in which the expression of glutamic acid decarboxylase-67 (GAD-67), a key enzyme in GABA synthesis, is targeted to GnRH neurons under the control of the GnRH gene promoter. On embryonic d 15, when GnRH neurons are still migrating, the transgenic animals had more GnRH neurons in aberrant locations in the cerebral cortex and fewer neurons reaching the hypothalamic-preoptic region, whereas migration into the brain was not affected. Hypothalamic GnRH content in mutant mice was low during the first week of postnatal life, increasing to normal values during infantile development (second week after birth) in the presence of increased pulsatile GnRH release. Consistent with these changes, serum LH and FSH levels were also elevated. Gonadotropin release returned to normal values by the time steroid negative feedback became established (fourth week of life). Ovariectomy at this time demonstrated an enhanced gonadotropin response in transgenic animals. Although the onset of puberty, as assessed by the age at vaginal opening and first ovulation, was not affected in the mutant mice, estrous cyclicity and adult reproductive capacity were disrupted. Mutant mice had reduced litter sizes, increased time intervals between deliveries of litters, and a shorter reproductive life span. Thus, GABA produced within GnRH neurons does not delay GnRH neuronal migration, but instead serves as a developmental cue that increases the positional diversity of these neurons within the basal forebrain. In addition, the results suggest that the timely termination of GABA production within the GnRH neuronal network is a prerequisite for normal reproductive function. The possibility arises that similar abnormalities in GABA homeostasis may contribute to syndromes of hypothalamic amenorrhea/oligomenorrhea in humans.
The extracellular Ca(2+)-sensing receptor (CaR) is expressed in many different organs in various species, ranging from mammals to fish. In some of these organs, this G protein-coupled receptor is involved in the control of systemic Ca(2+) homeostasis, whereas in other organs its role is unclear (e.g. in the pituitary gland). We have characterized the CaR in the neuroendocrine melanotrope cell of the intermediate pituitary lobe of the South African clawed toad Xenopus laevis. First, the presence of CaR mRNA was demonstrated by RT-PCR and in situ hybridization. Then it was shown that activation of the CaR by an elevated extracellular Ca(2+) concentration and different CaR-activators, including L-phenylalanine and spermine, stimulates both Ca(2+) oscillations and secretion from the melanotrope. Furthermore, it was revealed that activation of the receptor stimulates Ca(2+) oscillations through opening of voltage-operated Ca(2+) channels in the plasma membrane of the melanotropes. Finally, it was shown that the CaR activator L-phenylalanine could induce the biosynthesis of proopiomelanocortin in the intermediate lobe. Thus, in this study it is demonstrated that the CaR is present and functional in a defined cell type of the pituitary gland, the amphibian melanotrope cell.
The objective of this study was to explore whether and how ovarian hormones interact with the febrile response to pyrogens. Estrogen and progesterone treatment of ovariectomized rats was associated with a reduction in lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-induced fever, compared with ovariectomized controls. LPS-fever reduction was accompanied by reduced levels of the inducible cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) protein expression in the hypothalamus as well as reduced plasma levels of IL-1beta. The amount of LPS-induced IL-6 in the plasma was not affected by ovarian hormone replacement. In contrast, hypothalamic COX-2 expression in response to intraperitoneal injection of IL-1beta was potentiated by the ovarian hormone replacement. IL-1beta induced a moderate increase in plasma levels of IL-6 that was suppressed by ovarian hormone replacement. These data suggest that ovarian hormone replacement attenuated the proinflammatory response to LPS by suppressing the LPS-induced IL-1beta production and COX-2 expression in the hypothalamus. The markedly different action of ovarian hormones on IL-1beta and LPS effects suggests that this sex hormone modulation of the immune response is a function of the nature of infection and provides further evidence that LPS actions are different from those of IL-1beta.
Dietary restriction (DR) extends life span and improves glucose metabolism in mammals. Recent studies have shown that DR stimulates the production of brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) in brain cells, which may mediate neuroprotective and neurogenic actions of DR. Other studies have suggested a role for central BDNF signaling in the regulation of glucose metabolism and body weight. BDNF heterozygous knockout (BDNF+/-) mice are obese and exhibit features of insulin resistance. We now report that an intermittent fasting DR regimen reverses several abnormal phenotypes of BDNF(+/-) mice including obesity, hyperphagia, and increased locomotor activity. DR increases BDNF levels in the brains of BDNF(+/-) mice to the level of wild-type mice fed ad libitum. BDNF(+/-) mice exhibit an insulin-resistance syndrome phenotype characterized by elevated levels of circulating glucose, insulin, and leptin; DR reduces levels of each of these three factors. DR normalizes blood glucose responses in glucose tolerance and insulin tolerance tests in the BDNF(+/-) mice. These findings suggest that BDNF is a major regulator of energy metabolism and that beneficial effects of DR on glucose metabolism are mediated, in part, by BDNF signaling. Dietary and pharmacological manipulations of BDNF signaling may prove useful in the prevention and treatment of obesity and insulin resistance syndrome-related diseases.
Approximately 25-30% of patients referred to epilepsy centers for refractory epilepsy are found to have nonepileptic seizures (NES). In many cases psychological assessments are performed to evaluate for underlying psychiatric disorders. The authors analyzed the clinical features of 23 patients with NES and correlated the features with underlying psychological status. Thirteen of the twenty-three patients (56.5%) had motor manifestations and 10 presented with limpness and unresponsiveness. There was no significant difference in the occurrence of depression, anxiety, posttraumatic stress disorder, or malingering between patients with limpness and those with motor manifestations. However, only patients with motor manifestations had a history of sexual and physical abuse. Those with limp and unresponsive presentations were less likely to have a history of sexual and/or physical abuse. This finding may help treating physicians to choose optimum psychiatric treatment for patients with NES. Additional studies are needed to clarify the association.
In the present study, we have investigated GABA(B) receptor expression in somatosensory cortex (S1) and the ventrobasal (VB) and reticular (Rt) thalamic nuclei of Genetic Absence Epilepsy Rats from Strasbourg (GAERS), which represent an animal model for the human absence epilepsy. We focused our attention on the thalamocortical network because it has been demonstrated that absence seizures are generated in this specific circuit, which is under the control of several inhibitory, e.g. GABA, and excitatory systems. Autoradiography data obtained with the GABA(B) receptor antagonist [3H]CGP62349 did not show any differences in Kd or Bmax values between control rats and GAERS. In situ hybridisation (ISH) results showed a significant increase in messenger RNA for GABA(B1) in the S1 and a decrease in the VB thalamic nucleus but not in the Rt thalamic nucleus. By contrast the immunocytochemical data revealed an increased expression of both GABA(B1) and GABA(B2) receptor subunits in all the regions examined, somatosensory cerebral cortex, VB thalamus and Rt nucleus in GAERS compared to controls. The main finding was an up-regulation of GABA(B) receptor protein in the corticothalamic circuit in GAERS compared to controls.
The cingulate gyrus (CG) is often involved during partial epileptic seizures. The purpose of the study was to analyse the CG morphology and to measure the CG volume in epileptic patients, in order to detect subtle MRI abnormalities such as atrophy, which could be indicative of its implication in the epileptogenic area. The population consisted of 20 epileptic patients (31.2 +/- 9.4 years) and 20 normal volunteers (31.8 +/- 7.7 years). The epileptic patients underwent intracerebral recordings, and were sub-divided into five patients presenting with seizures involving the CG (CG 1), seven patients in whom the CG was only secondarily involved (CG 2) and eight patients in whom the CG was not invoved at all (CG 3). All subjects were investigated by MRI (1.5 tesla Gyroscan Philips): axial T1w 3D Gradient Echo acquisitions, thickness 1.5 mm, reconstructions in all planes. At first, we described the sulcal limits of the CG, trying to define a &quot;normalised CG&quot;. In a second step, we segmented the CG intrasulcal grey matter using the &quot;Surgiscope Scopeplan&quot; (Elekta). We compared (Mann and Whitney U test [alpha=0.05]), the CG volumes of CG 1 to CG 2 + 3, and the volume of CG 1 and of CG 1 + 2 + 3 to that of normal volunteers. There was no significant difference between CG 1 and CG 2 + 3 (P= 0.89), between CG 1 and normal volunteers (P= 0.75) or between CG1 + 2 + 3 and normal volunteers (P = 0.83). The volumetric analysis showed no atrophy of the CG in epileptic patients and did not distinguish the group in whom seizures involved the CG, from the other groups.

The concepts of pathophysiology of epilepsy which underly the non-resective surgical treatment of epilepsy are reviewed. The available techniques, lesioning, disconnection and stimulation are described and reviewed critically. Stereotactic lesioning, popular in the 1950's has been largely abandoned but stereotactic radiosurgery emerges as a useful technique, especially in the treatment of mesial temporal sclerosis. Disconnection by callosotomy has fewer applications than previously and multiple subpial transection (MST) has limited applications. Stimulation is a technique with increasing usefulness. Vagus nerve stimulation(VNS) is an accepted method of treatment with low morbidity and mortality, which improves seizure control in at least 30% of patients, together with concomitant improvements in QOL and economic advantages. Stimulation of deep brain targets in the thalamus, subthalamus and mesial temporal structures is practical. There are indications that this improves seizure control in groups of patients previously un helped by surgery, and this methodology has enormous potential.
Ca2+ and cAMP are ubiquitous second messengers in eukaryotes and control numerous physiological responses ranging from fertilization to cell death induction. To distinguish between these different responses, their subtle regulation in time, space and amplitude is needed. Therefore, the characterization of the signalling process requires measurement of second messengers with tools of precise localization, high dynamic range and as little disturbance of cell physiology as possible. Recently, fluorescent proteins of marine jellyfish have given rise to a set of genetically encoded biosensors which fulfil these criteria and which have already led to important new insights into the subcellular handling of Ca2+ and cAMP. The use of these probes in combination with new microscopical methods such as two-photon microscopy now enables researchers to study second messenger signalling in intact tissues. In this review, the genetically encoded measurement probes and their origin are briefly introduced and some recent insights into the spatio-temporal complexity of both Ca2+ and cAMP signalling obtained with these tools are discussed.
Altered peptide ligands (APL) induce T cell responses different from those induced by the original agonistic peptide. As shown for CD4(+) T cells, partial agonists induce partial T cell activation without proliferation because of lower affinities and higher off rates to TCR than those of agonists. To determine whether overexpression of partially agonistic TCR ligands on antigen-presenting cells provides high-avidity TCR ligands, we generated L cell transfectants expressing various numbers of HLA-DR4 covalently linked with APL derived from a streptococcal peptide and observed responses of the cognate T cells. Some overexpressed HLA-DR4/partially agonistic APL complexes induced T cell proliferation in a density-dependent manner. However, tyrosine phosphorylation of zeta-associated protein-70 (ZAP-70) and linker for activation of T cells and kinase activity of ZAP-70 were not detectable. T cell proliferation stimulated with L cell transfectants was sensitive to the PKC inhibitor G6976, but to a lesser extent to G6983, suggesting the involvement of mu isotype of PKC (PKCmu). In vitro kinase assays revealed that PKCmu activity was up-regulated only in T cells stimulated with L cell transfectants that induced T cell proliferation. Our data suggest the presence of a unique signaling pathway coupling TCR ligation with T cell proliferation associated with PKCmu activation and impaired ZAP-70 activation.
Behavioural data have shown that the perception of an object automatically potentiates motor components (affordances) of possible actions toward that object, irrespective of the subject's intention. We carried out an event-related fMRI study to investigate the influence of the intrinsic properties of an object on motor responses which were either compatible or incompatible with the action that the object affords. The subjects performed power or precision grip responses based on the categorization of objects into natural or man-made. The objects were either 'small' (usually grasped with a precision grip) or 'large' (usually grasped with a power grip). As expected, the motor responses were fastest to objects that afforded the same grip (congruent) and slowest to objects that afforded the other grip (incongruent). Imaging revealed activations which covaried with compatibility in the parietal, dorsal premotor and inferior frontal cortex. We suggest that the greater the difference in reaction times between congruent and incongruent trials, the greater the competition between the action afforded by the object and the action specified by the task, and thus the greater the activation within this network.
Granule cells of the hippocampal dentate gyrus receive two powerful excitatory inputs: the perforant path, originating from the entorhinal cortex, and the associational pathway, originating from mossy cells, the principal neurons of the dentate gyrus hilus. We examined the electrophysiological properties of the less well-studied associational pathway and its interaction with the perforant path in the intact mouse hippocampus and then tested homosynaptic, trans-synaptic and associative long-term potentiation of these pathways. The associational pathway was either monosynaptically activated by stimulation within the inner molecular layer or trisynaptically activated after stimulation of the perforant path. Laminar profiles of extracellularly recorded associational pathway field potentials demonstrated a bell-shaped curve with a peak in the inner molecular layer. Tetanization of the perforant path induced not only homosynaptic potentiation of the perforant path (162.4 +/- 6.7% at 0.5-1.5 h after tetanus) but also heterosynaptic potentiation of the associational pathway (115.7 +/- 4.9%). Direct tetanization of the associational pathway within the inner molecular layer was ineffective in either the septo-temporal (97.2 +/- 4.5%) or temporal-septal (104.4 +/- 4.6%) direction. In contrast, conjoint tetanization of the associational pathway with the perforant path potentiated the associational pathway responses in both the septo-temporal (123.4 +/- 5.8%) and the temporal-septal (124.8 +/- 7.3%) directions. Paired-pulse facilitation was attenuated by long-term potentiation in the perforant path and the associational pathway, suggesting pre-synaptic involvement. These results demonstrate that long-term potentiation of the associational pathway and the perforant path is a product of the network properties of the dentate gyrus rather than of each monosynaptic input alone. The architecture of this neural network may be designed for flexible dynamic associations of the afferent perforant path inputs to configure encoded information within hippocampal neuronal ensembles.
Messenger ribonucleic acid encoding the alpha-subunit of calcium/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II (camkII) is abundantly and constitutively expressed in dendrites of pyramidal and granule cell neurons of the adult hippocampus. Recent evidence suggests that camkII messenger ribonucleic acid is stored in a translationally dormant state within ribonucleic acid storage granules. Delivery of camkII messenger ribonucleic acid from sites of storage to sites of translation may therefore be a key step in activity-driven dendritic protein synthesis and synaptic plasticity. Here we explored possible camkII trafficking in the context of long-term potentiation in the dentate gyrus of awake, adult rats. Long-term potentiation was induced by patterned high-frequency stimulation, synaptodendrosomes containing pinched-off dendritic spines were obtained from microdissected dentate gyrus, and messenger ribonucleic acid levels were determined by real-time polymerase chain reaction. High-frequency stimulation triggered a rapid 2.5-fold increase in camkII messenger ribonucleic acid levels in the synaptodendrosome fraction. This increase occurred in the absence of camkII upregulation in the homogenate fraction, indicating trafficking of pre-existing messenger ribonucleic acid to synaptodendrosomes. The elevation in camkII messenger ribonucleic acid was paralleled by an increase in protein expression specific to the synaptodendrosome fraction, and followed by depletion of camkII message. Activity-dependent regulation of camkII messenger ribonucleic acid and protein did not require N-methyl-d-aspartate receptor activation. In contrast, N-methyl-d-aspartate receptor activation was required for induction of the immediate early genes zif268 and activity-regulated cytoskeleton-associated protein in dentate gyrus homogenates. The results support a model in which locally stored camkII messenger ribonucleic acid is rapidly transported to dendritic spines and translated during long-term potentiation in behaving rats.
To explore the role of brain-derived neurotrophic factor for survival and generation of striatal neurons after stroke, recombinant adeno-associated viral vectors carrying brain-derived neurotrophic factor or green fluorescent protein genes were injected into right rat substantia nigra 4-5 weeks prior to 30 min ipsilateral of middle cerebral artery occlusion. The brain-derived neurotrophic factor-recombinant adeno-associated viral transduction markedly increased the production of brain-derived neurotrophic factor protein by nigral cells. Brain-derived neurotrophic factor was transported anterogradely to the striatum and released in biologically active form, as revealed by the hypertrophic response of striatal neuropeptide Y-positive interneurons. Animals transduced with brain-derived neurotrophic factor-recombinant adeno-associated virus also exhibited abnormalities in body posture and movements, including tilted body to the right, choreiform movements of left forelimb and head, and spontaneous, so-called 'barrel' rotation along their long axis. The continuous delivery of brain-derived neurotrophic factor had no effect on the survival of striatal projection neurons after stroke, but exaggerated the loss of cholinergic, and parvalbumin- and neuropeptide Y-positive, gamma-aminobutyric acid-ergic interneurons. The high brain-derived neurotrophic factor levels in the animals subjected to stroke also gave rise to an increased number of striatal cells expressing doublecortin, a marker for migrating neuroblasts, and cells double-labelled with the mitotic marker, 5-bromo-2'-deoxyuridine-5'monophosphate, and early neuronal (Hu) or striatal neuronal (Meis2) markers. Our findings indicate that long-term anterograde delivery of high levels of brain-derived neurotrophic factor increases the vulnerability of striatal interneurons to stroke-induced damage. Concomitantly, brain-derived neurotrophic factor potentiates the stroke-induced neurogenic response, at least at early stages.
During suckling, oxytocin (OT) neurons display a bursting electrical activity, consisting of a brief burst of action potentials which is synchronized throughout the OT neuron population and which periodically occurs just before each milk ejection in the lactating rat. To investigate the basis of such synchronization, we performed simultaneous intracellular recordings from pairs of OT neurons identified retrospectively by intracellular fluorescent labelling and immunocytochemistry in organotypic slice cultures derived from postnatal rat hypothalamus. A spontaneous bursting activity was recorded in 65% of OT neurons; the remaining showed only a slow, irregular activity. Application of OT triggered bursts in nonbursting neurons and accelerated bursting activity in spontaneously bursting cells. These cultures included rare vasopressinergic neurons showing no bursting activity and no reaction to OT. Bursts occurred simultaneously in all pairs of bursting OT neurons but, as in vivo, there were differences in burst onset, amplitude and duration. Coordination of firing was not due to electrotonic coupling because depolarizing one neuron in a pair had no effect on the membrane potential of its partner and halothane and proprionate did not desynchronize activity. On the other hand, bursting activity was superimposed on volleys of excitatory postsynaptic potentials (EPSPs) which occurred simultaneously in pairs of neurons. EPSPs, and consequently action potentials, were reversibly blocked by the non-NMDA glutamatergic receptor antagonist CNQX. Taken together, these data, obtained from organotypic cultures, strongly suggest that a local hypothalamic network governs synchronization of bursting firing in OT neurons through synchronous afferent volleys of EPSPs originating from intrahypothalamic glutamatergic inputs.
Various studies demonstrated that the neurotransmitter norepinephrine (NE) plays a relevant role in modulating seizures; in particular, a powerful effect consists in delaying the kindling of limbic areas such as the amygdala and hippocampus. Given the rich NE innervation of limbic regions, we selected a sensitive trigger area, the anterior piriform cortex, to test whether previous loss of noradrenergic terminals modifies sporadic seizures in rats. The damage to locus coeruleus terminals was produced by using the selective neurotoxin N-(-2-chloroethyl)-N-ethyl-2-bromobenzylamine (DSP-4, 60 mg/kg i.p.). In intact rats, bicuculline (a GABA-A antagonist, 118 pmol) microinfused into this area produced sporadic seizures, while in rats previously injected with DSP-4, bicuculline determined long-lasting self-sustaining status epilepticus. In intact rats, sporadic seizures were accompanied by a marked increase in norepinephrine release in the contralateral piriform cortex, while in locus coeruleus-lesioned rats this phenomenon was attenuated. While bicuculline-induced sporadic seizures were prevented by the focal infusion of amino-7-phosphonoheptanoic acid (AP-7, a selective NMDA antagonist), or 1,2,3,4-tetrahydro-6-nitro-2,3-dioxo-benzo[f]quinoxaline-7-sulphonamide (NBQX, a selective non-NMDA antagonist), status epilepticus obtained in norepinephrine-lesioned rats was insensitive to AP-7 but was still inhibited by NBQX. By using fluorescent staining for damaged (Fluoro-Jade B) and intact (DAPI) neurons, as well as cresyl violet, we found that rats undergoing status epilepticus developed neuronal loss in various limbic regions. This study demonstrates a powerful effect of noradrenergic terminals in regulating the onset of limbic status epilepticus and its sensitivity to specific glutamate antagonists.
The role of the piriform cortex (PC) in olfactory information processing remains mainly unknown. Indeed, until recently, only a few studies have investigated the response of PC neurons to odours and these studies did not take into account the functional heterogeneity of the PC previously described using an electrical stimulation paradigm. In this experiment, extracellular activity in response to odour was recorded in urethane anaesthetized rats in the different parts of the cortex ranging from anterior to posterior. A large percentage of cortical cells were silent at rest, and this percentage increased from anterior to posterior. Analysis of odour evoked activity revealed a large percentage of nonresponsive cells that increased from anterior to posterior. Cell activity was largely synchronized with breathing and different temporal patterns were observed. The anterior PC was characterized by odour-evoked responses phase-locked with the inhalation-exhalation transition period. By contrast, activity in the posterior PC was mainly phase-locked with inhalation or exhalation. These data confirm the spatial functional heterogeneity previously reported in the PC. Functional anatomy of the PC suggests that activity in the anterior PC can be mainly driven by afferent activity coming from the OB whereas posterior cells were certainly entrained by more complex mechanisms.
Cyclooxygenase (COX), which is present in two isoforms (COX1 and 2), synthesizes prostaglandins from arachidonic acid; it plays a crucial role in inflammation in both central and peripheral tissues. Here, we describe its role in synaptic plasticity and spatial learning in vivo via an effect on brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) and prostaglandin E2 (PGE2; both measured by Elisa). We found that broad-spectrum COX inhibition (BSCI) inhibits the induction of long-term potentiation (LTP; the major contemporary model of synaptic plasticity), and causes substantial and sustained deficits in spatial learning in the watermaze. Increases in BDNF and PGE2 following spatial learning and LTP were also blocked. Importantly, 4 days of prior exercise in a running wheel increased endogenous BDNF levels sufficiently to reverse the BSCI of LTP and spatial learning, and restored a parallel increase in LTP and learning-related BDNF and PGE2. In control experiments, we found that BSCI had no effect on baseline synaptic transmission or on the nonhippocampal visible-platform task; there was no evidence of gastric ulceration from BSCI. COX2 is inhibited by glucorticoids; there was no difference in blood corticosterone levels as measured by radioimmunoassay in any condition. Thus, COX plays a previously undescribed, permissive role in synaptic plasticity and spatial learning via a BDNF-associated mechanism.
Nurr1 (Nr4a2) is a transcription factor expressed in dopamine cells from early development and throughout life. Null mutants for Nurr1 lack the ventral midbrain dopamine neurons and die soon after birth. Animals with a heterozygous deletion are viable and display no apparent abnormality. We have investigated the impact of heterozygous deletion of Nurr1 on ethanol consumption in adult mice as a model for drug-induced reward and on wheel running as a model for natural reward. Interestingly, Nurr1 heterozygous mice never developed high ethanol consumption nor did they develop as much running behaviour as did the wild-type animals. Thus, Nurr1 appears to have a key role for the reinforcing properties of ethanol and running that underlies the development of excessive reward-seeking behaviours characteristic for addiction. Quantitative trait loci mapping using C57Bl/6 and DBA/2 mice describe a locus for ethanol preference on chromosome 2, wherein Nurr1 is located. We found two dinucleotide repeats in the Nurr1 promoter that were longer in mice with low preference for ethanol (DBA/2 and 129/Sv) than in mice with high preference for ethanol (C57Bl/6J and C57Bl/6NIH). These sequential data are compatible with Nurr1 as a candidate gene responsible for the quantitative trait loci for ethanol preference on mouse chromosome 2. Together, our data thus imply involvement of Nurr1 in the transition to a state of high ethanol consumption as well as in the development of a high amount of wheel running in mice.
In order to reveal axonal rewiring in the hippocampal and parahippocampal regions after status epilepticus, we investigated the temporal evolution of growth-associated protein-43 (GAP-43) mRNA and protein expression in two rat models of mesial temporal lobe epilepsy (MTLE). Status epilepticus (SE) was induced by electrical stimulation of the angular bundle or by intraperitoneal kainic acid (KA) injections. Despite increased GAP-43 mRNA expression in dentate granule cells at 24 h after SE, GAP-43 protein expression in the inner molecular layer (IML) of the dentate gyrus decreased progressively after 24 h after SE in both models. Nevertheless robust mossy fiber sprouting (MFS) was evident in the IML of chronic epileptic rats. Remaining GAP-43 protein expression in the IML in chronic epileptic rats did not correlate with the extent of MFS, but with the number of surviving hilar neurons. In the parahippocampal region, GAP-43 mRNA expression was decreased in layer III of the medial entorhinal area (MEAIII) in parallel with extensive neuronal loss in this layer. There was a tendency of GAP-43 mRNA up-regulation in the presubiculum, a region that projects to MEAIII. With regard to this parahippocampal region, however, changes in GAP-43 mRNA expression were not followed by protein changes. The presence of the presynaptic protein GAP-43 in a neurodegenerated MEAIII indicates that fibers still project to this layer. Whether reorganization of fibers has occurred in this region after SE needs to be investigated with tools other than GAP-43.
Microglial cells are the pathologic sensors in the brain. ATP released from damaged cells is a candidate for signalling neural injury to microglia. Moreover, ATP is an extracellular messenger for propagating astrocyte activity in the form of Ca2+ waves. To test for the functional expression of purinoreceptors in microglial cells we employed the patch-clamp technique in acute slices of adult mouse brain. ATP triggered a nonselective cationic and a K+ current. Pharmacological screening with purinergic ligands indicated the presence of P2Y1 and P2Y2/4 receptors linked to the activation of a K+ current and P2X receptors, including P2X7, linked to the activation of a nonselective cationic current. These findings suggest that microglial cells in situ express different purinergic receptors with distinct sensitivity and functional coupling. To test for the involvement of purinoreceptors in microglial activation, we stimulated cultured microglial cells with lipopolysaccharide and measured the release of tumour necrosis factor alpha, interleukin-6, interleukin-12 and macrophage inflammatory protein 1alpha, induction of K+ outward currents and nitric oxide release. All these parameters were reduced in the presence of purinergic ligands, indicating that purinergic receptor activation attenuated indicators of microglial activation.
In this paper we describe the cloning of a putative ionotropic glutamate receptor subunit, SqGluR, and its distribution in the nervous system of the squid. A full-length cDNA was assembled from a cDNA library of the stellate ganglion/giant fibre lobe complex of Loligo opalescens. The deduced amino acid sequence of the mature SqGluR displayed 44-46% amino acid identity with mammalian GluR1-GluR4 and 53% with Lym-eGluR1 from Lymnaea stagnalis. In situ hybridizations in adult squid confirmed that the SqGluR mRNA is abundant in giant fibre lobe neurons, in large, presumptive motor neurons of the stellate ganglion proper and in the supraoesophageal and optic lobes of the central nervous system. In newborn squid, SqGluR mRNA expression was detected throughout the nervous system but not elsewhere. A synthetic peptide corresponding to the last 15 amino acids of the SqGluR C-terminus was used to generate polyclonal antibodies, which were used for immunoblot analysis to demonstrate widespread expression in the squid central and peripheral nervous systems. Injection of the synthetic peptide into the postsynaptic side of the giant synapse inhibited synaptic transmission.
This study tested suicidality in relation to cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid (5-HIAA) and the dexamethasone suppression test. Patients with nonsuppression of cortisol had the highest scores of the Suicide Assessment Scale (SUAS) and the Montgomery Asberg Depression Rating Scale (MADRS), respectively (P &lt; 0.05; P &lt; 0.01). The results persisted when analysed for covariance with CSF-5-HIAA. We have previously noted an elevated suicide risk in suicide attempters with high SUAS-scores, why a large part of nonsuppressors may be at high risk for future suicide.
Male and female Hartley strain guinea pigs weighing 280 +/- 10 g were given acetaminophen-treated water ad libitum for 10 days. Sham-treated control animals were given similar quantities of untreated tap water (vehicle-treated control group). On Day 10, hearts were extracted, instrumented, and exposed to an ischemia (low-flow, 20 min)/reperfusion protocol. Our objective was to compare and contrast ventricular function, coronary circulation, and selected biochemical and histological indices in the two treatment groups. Left ventricular developed pressure in the early minutes of reperfusion was significantly greater in the presence of acetaminophen, e.g., at 1 min, 40 +/- 4 vs 21 +/- 3 mmHg (P &lt; 0.05). Coronary perfusion pressure was significantly less from 3 to 40 min of reperfusion in the presence of acetaminophen. Creatine kinase release in vehicle-treated hearts rose from 42 +/- 14 (baseline) to 78 +/- 25 units/liter by the end of ischemia. Corresponding values in acetaminophen-treated hearts were 36 +/- 8 and 44 +/- 14 units/liter. Acetaminophen significantly (P &lt; 0.05) attenuated release of creatine kinase. Chemiluminescence, an indicator of the in vitro production of peroxynitrite via the in vivo release of superoxide and nitric oxide, was also significantly attenuated by acetaminophen. Electron microscopy indicated a well-preserved myofibrillar ultrastructure in the postischemic myocardium of acetaminophen-treated hearts relative to vehicle-treated hearts (e.g., few signs of contraction bands, little or no evidence of swollen mitochondria, and well-defined light and dark bands in sarcomeres with acetaminophen; opposite with vehicle). We conclude that chronic administration of acetaminophen provides cardioprotection to the postischemic, reperfused rodent myocardium.
Attending to a cued location in space leads to faster reaction times when a stimulus is presented there. The reasons for this attentional effect, and its specific locus in the information-processing chain between stimulus and response, remain unclear. One suggestion is that attention speeds the conscious detection of stimuli. Surprisingly, this possibility appears not to have been tested directly. To resolve this question, we asked subjects to make simple responses to lateralised targets that followed either a valid, invalid or neutral cue, and to judge the perceived time of the target onset, or of their response, by delayed report of the position of a clock hand. Our results showed that only a small and non-significant part of the attentional effect is due to delayed conscious awareness of the stimulus. The greater part of the attentional effect is localised either subsequent to conscious detection of stimuli or occurs in a separate, parallel processing stream from that which generates the motor response.
We assessed the influence of vestibular stimulation by whole-body oscillation in the yaw plane on the cardiorespiratory responses after a change of posture from sitting to standing. Eighteen healthy subjects (21-70 years old) and six patients with bilateral vestibular loss (46-59 years old) were tested. For comparison, a subgroup, age matched to the patients, was created from the healthy group. After a 10-min rest, subjects who were sitting, back unsupported, stood on a platform affording en bloc head and body support. The platform was either static or oscillated at 0.1 Hz and 0.5 Hz (20 degrees amplitude) for 2 min. Presentation of the three conditions was counterbalanced. Respiration, ECG, blood pressure and head position were recorded. During oscillation at 0.5 Hz, the respiratory responses were different between groups; healthy subjects showed a significant increase of the respiratory frequency (1.75+/-2.1 breaths/min), which was not observed in the patients (0.16+/-0.7 breaths/min) ( p&lt;0.05, ANOVA). Absolute changes of heart rate and blood pressure were similar for the three conditions in all the subjects. However, healthy subjects showed a decrease of power spectrum density of the high-frequency ('respiratory') component of heart rate variability on standing during all three conditions. This response was variable among the patients and the age-matched group. The study shows that semicircular canal activation influences the respiratory rhythm during movements in the yaw plane in standing subjects. In addition, we observed that changes of the respiratory influence on heart rate variability during orthostatic stress are not affected by yaw oscillation or chronic vestibular loss, but may be affected by factors related to age.
The past two to three years have witnessed a remarkable increase in the number of gene therapy studies to treat almost every disease of the eye. All types of delivery systems, viral and non-viral, have been used. Experiments have begun to move from the use of reporters, to genes with potential therapeutic value. In this paper, rather than giving an overview from the beginning of ocular gene therapy, I have chosen to review its most recent advances. Although numerous issues remain to be solved, the emerging picture is encouraging. Within the experimental setting, conditions in the anterior and posterior segments have been improved by the administration of genes encoding beneficial proteins. In one case, vision has been restored in a congenitally blind animal. Limitations do exit, however a greater understanding of the molecular biology of eye tissues coupled with the development of low immunogenicity vectors will continue edging the way for a future use of gene therapy in the clinical setting.
The validity of the oxidative stress hypothesis of aging has sometimes been questioned because the administration of low molecular weight antioxidants such as alpha-tocopherol does not retard the aging process and extend maximum life span. Thus, the goal of the current study was to determine if increased oral intake of alpha-tocopheryl acetate indeed results in its augmentation in tissues or in their mitochondria, and whether or not this causes an attenuation of oxidative damage. Groups of relatively old (21 months) experimental mice were fed a diet supplemented with 1.65 g/kg alpha-tocopheryl acetate or the base diet (NIH-31), for 13 weeks. Supplementation with alpha-tocopheryl acetate increased alpha-tocopherol concentrations approximately 3-5-fold in plasma and in tissue homogenates and approximately 2-3-fold in mitochondria from liver, skeletal muscle and heart of the mice. However, supplementation affected neither the rate of heart mitochondrial H(2)O(2) generation nor products of lipid peroxidation (thiobarbituric acid-reactive substances) and protein oxidation (protein carbonyls). Thus, in contrast to life-extending interventions such as caloric restriction, that can produce relatively rapid decreases in oxidative damage, supplementation with alpha-tocopheryl acetate had little or no impact on the steady-state level of cellular oxidative damage. This difference could explain why alpha-tocopherol administration has been found to be ineffective in the extension of the life span.
Recent studies have suggested that testosterone levels are lower in men with Alzheimer's disease and that testosterone treatment improves cognition in older men. Since testosterone can be aromatized to estrogen, testosterone's effects could be due to conversion into estrogen. We treated aged male rats with either testosterone or dihydrotestosterone (DHT), the latter of which is not aromatized to estrogen, in order to determine whether these treatments improve spatial working and reference memory as assessed in the water radial arm maze. We also tested whether such effects are related to beta-amyloid levels in the hippocampus or neurotrophin levels in the hippocampus, entorhinal cortex, frontal cortex, or striatum. Aged rats made more errors than young rats on all memory measures. Testosterone, but not DHT, improved working memory and decreased hippocampal NGF protein in aged rats, while having no effect on beta-amyloid. However, higher beta-amyloid levels were correlated with poorer working memory performance in young rats. Neurotrophin levels in entorhinal cortex were positively correlated with errors for all memory measures in androgen-treated rats. Similar to findings in human studies, in our study androgen treatment lowered circulating estradiol levels in aged rats, suggesting that androgen treatment exerts feedback to the hypothalamic pituitary axis and that conversion to estrogen may not be the underlying biological mechanism of testosterone's effects on memory and growth factor levels. The ratio of estradiol to testosterone, or the actions of the aromatase enzyme itself, may be responsible for the observed effects. These data support the hypothesis that testosterone therapy in aging men may provide positive effects on cognition and that neural regions that are linked to cognition, such as the hippocampus and/or entorhinal cortex, may be involved in such effects.
Stressful, preconditioning stimuli can elicit rapid and delayed forms of tolerance to ischemic injury. The identification and characterization of preconditioning stimuli that are effective, but relatively benign, could enhance the clinical applicability of induced tolerance. This study examines the efficacy of brief hypothermia as a preconditioning stimulus for inducing rapid tolerance. Rats were administered hypothermic preconditioning or sham preconditioning and after an interval of 20-120 min were subjected to transient focal ischemia using a three-vessel occlusion model. The volume of cerebral infarction was measured 24 h or 7 days after ischemia. In other experiments, the depth or duration of the hypothermic stimulus was manipulated, or a protein synthesis inhibitor (anisomycin) was administered. Twenty minutes of hypothermia delivered 20 or 60 (but not 120) min prior to ischemia significantly reduces cerebral infarction. The magnitude of protection is enhanced with deeper levels of hypothermia, but is not affected by increasing the duration of the hypothermic stimulus. Treatment with a protein synthesis inhibitor does not block the induction of rapid tolerance. Hypothermic preconditioning elicits a rapid form of tolerance to focal ischemic injury. Unlike delayed tolerance induced by hypothermia, rapid tolerance is not dependent on either de novo protein synthesis or the duration of the preconditioning stimulus. These findings suggest that the mechanisms underlying rapid and delayed tolerance induced by hypothermia differ fundamentally. Brief hypothermia could provide a rapid means of inducing transient tissue protection in the context of predictable ischemic events.
Peripheral nerve injury is often followed by incomplete recovery of function and sometimes associated with neuropathic pain. There is, therefore, need for therapies which improve the speed of recovery and the final functional outcome after peripheral nerve injuries. In addition, neuropathic pain is not easily dealt with clinically and should preferably be eliminated. Neurotrophic factors have well-documented abilities to support neuron survival and stimulate neurite outgrowth, making them excellent candidates for use in repairing injured nerves. We investigated the possible beneficial effects of repairing the transected rat sciatic nerve by local application of a fibrin sealant containing nerve growth factor (NGF), glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF), or acidic fibroblast growth factor (aFGF). Fibrin sealant was used in conjunction with sutures. Evaluation of motor and sensory function, autotomy, and histological parameters was carried out from 1 to 12 weeks after injury. We demonstrate that NGF cotreatment decreased the occurance of autotomy, suggesting a reduction of neuropathic pain, and improved the performance in motor and sensory tests. In addition, the number of regenerating motoneurons was significantly increased after NGF administration. GDNF increased the speed of sensory recovery, but also markedly increased autotomy, indicating an increased degree of neuropathic pain. aFGF did not alter the outcome of the motor or sensory tests. Fibrin sealant could easily be used in conjunction with sutures to deliver neurotrophic substances locally to the damaged nerve and to enhance recovery of nerve function.
Neural stem cells (NSCs) offer the potential to replace lost tissue after nervous system injury. This study investigated whether grafts of NSCs (mouse clone C17.2) could also specifically support host axonal regeneration after spinal cord injury and sought to identify mechanisms underlying such growth. In vitro, prior to grafting, C17.2 NSCs were found for the first time to naturally constitutively secrete significant quantities of several neurotrophic factors by specific ELISA, including nerve growth factor, brain-derived neurotrophic factor, and glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor. When grafted to cystic dorsal column lesions in the cervical spinal cord of adult rats, C17.2 NSCs supported extensive growth of host axons of known sensitivity to these growth factors when examined 2 weeks later. Quantitative real-time RT-PCR confirmed that grafted stem cells expressed neurotrophic factor genes in vivo. In addition, NSCs were genetically modified to produce neurotrophin-3, which significantly expanded NSC effects on host axons. Notably, overexpression of one growth factor had a reciprocal effect on expression of another factor. Thus, stem cells can promote host neural repair in part by secreting growth factors, and their regeneration-promoting activities can be modified by gene delivery.
Antisense offers a precise and specific means of knocking down expression of a target gene, and is a major focus of research in neuroscience and other areas. It has application as a tool in gene function and target validation studies and is emerging as a therapeutic technology in its own right. It has become increasingly obvious, however, that there are a number of hurdles to overcome before antisense can be used effectively in the CNS, most notably finding suitable nucleic acid chemistries and an effective delivery vehicle to transport antisense oligonucleotides (AS-ODNs) across the blood-brain barrier (BBB) to their site of action. Despite these problems, a number of potential applications of AS-ODNs in CNS therapeutics have been validated in vitro and, in some cases, in vivo. Here the authors outline available nucleic acid chemistries and review progress in the development of non-invasive delivery vehicles that may be applicable to CNS therapeutics. Further to this, they discuss a number of experimental applications of AS-ODNs to CNS research and speculate on the development of antisense techniques to treat CNS disease.
Hypertension and insulin resistance syndrome are risk factors for cardiovascular disease, and it is therefore important to identify interventions that can reduce blood pressure and improve glucose metabolism. We performed experiments aimed at determining whether intermittent fasting (IF) can improve cardiovascular health and also tested the hypothesis that beneficial effects of IF can be mimicked by dietary supplementation with 2-deoxy-D-glucose (2DG) a non-metabolizable glucose analog. Four-month-old male rats were implanted with telemetry probes to allow continuous monitoring of heart rate, blood pressure, physical activity, and body temperature. Rats were then maintained for 6 months on one of three different dietary regimens: ad libitum feeding, IF, or 2DG supplementation. Rats on the IF regimen consumed 30% less food over time and had reduced body weights compared with rats fed ad libitum, whereas rats on the 2DG regimen did not reduce their food intake and maintained their body weight. Heart rate and blood pressure were significantly decreased within 1 month in rats on IF and 2DG diets and were maintained at reduced levels thereafter. Body temperature was significantly decreased in group IF, but not in group 2DG. Levels of serum glucose and insulin were significantly decreased in rats maintained on IF and 2DG-supplemented diets, suggesting that IF and 2DG diets affect insulin sensitivity in a similar manner. Finally, rats in groups IF and 2DG exhibited increased levels of plasma adrenocorticotropin and corticosterone, indicating that these diets induced a stress response. We conclude that reductions in blood pressure, heart rate, and insulin levels, similar to or greater than those obtained with regular physical exercise programs, can be achieved by IF and by dietary supplementation with 2DG by a mechanism involving stress responses.
Glutamate and NPY have been implicated in hippocampal neuropathology in temporal lobe epilepsy. Thus, we investigated the involvement of NPY receptors in mediating neuroprotection against excitotoxic insults in organotypic cultures of rat hippocampal slices. Exposure of hippocampal slice cultures to 2 microM AMPA (alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-isoxazole-4-propionate) induced neuronal degeneration, monitored by propidium iodide uptake, of granule cells and CA1 pyramidal cells. For dentate granule cells, selective activation of Y1, Y2, or Y5 receptors with 1 microM [Leu31,Pro34]NPY, 300 nM NPY13-36 or 1 microM 500 nM NPY(19-23)-(Gly1,Ser3,Gln4,Thr6,Ala31,Aib32,Gln34)-PP, respectively, had a neuroprotective effect against AMPA, whereas only the activation of Y2 receptors was effective for CA1 pyramidal cells. When the slice cultures were exposed to 6 microM kainate, the CA3 pyramidal cells displayed significant degeneration, and in this case the activation of Y1, Y2, and Y5 receptors was neuroprotective. For the kainic acid-induced degeneration of CA1 pyramidal cells, it was again found that only the Y2 receptor activation was effective. Based on the present findings, it was concluded that Y1, Y2, and Y5 receptors effectively can modify glutamate receptor-mediated neurodegeneration in the hippocampus.
Gamma-secretase cleavage is the final proteolytic step that releases the amyloid beta-peptide (Abeta) from the amyloid beta-protein precursor (APP). Significant evidence indicates that the presenilins (PS) are catalytic components of a high molecular weight gamma-secretase complex. The glycoprotein nicastrin was recently identified as a functional unit of this complex based on 1) binding to PS and 2) the ability to modulate Abeta production following mutation of a conserved DYIGS region. In contrast to the initial report, we find that overexpression of wild-type (WT) nicastrin increases Abeta production, whereas DYIGS mutations (MT) have little or no effect. The increase in Abeta production is associated with an increase in gamma-secretase activity but not with a detectable increase in PS1 levels. Subcellular fractionation studies show that WT but not MT nicastrin matures into buoyant membrane fractions enriched in gamma-secretase activity. These data support the hypothesis that nicastrin is an essential component of the gamma-secretase complex. The finding that WT nicastrin overexpression can increase gamma-secretase activity without altering levels of the presumed catalytic component (PS) of the enzyme may point to a role for nicastrin in facilitating cleavage by regulating substrate interactions with the gamma-secretase complex.
The bioinformatics of alternative and complementary medicine is outlined in 3 hypotheses that extend the molecular-genomic revolution initiated by Watson and Crick 50 years ago to include psychology in the new discipline of psychosocial and cultural genomics. Stress-induced changes in the alternative splicing of genes demonstrate how psychosomatic stress in humans modulates activity-dependent gene expression, protein formation, physiological function, and psychological experience. The molecular messengers generated by stress, injury, and disease can activate immediate early genes within stem cells so that they then signal the target genes required to synthesize the proteins that will transform (differentiate) stem cells into mature well-functioning tissues. Such activity-dependent gene expression and its consequent activity-dependent neurogenesis and stem cell healing is proposed as the molecular-genomic-cellular basis of rehabilitative medicine, physical, and occupational therapy as well as the many alternative and complementary approaches to mind-body healing. The therapeutic replaying of enriching life experiences that evoke the novelty-numinosum-neurogenesis effect during creative moments of art, music, dance, drama, humor, literature, poetry, and spirituality, as well as cultural rituals of life transitions (birth, puberty, marriage, illness, healing, and death) can optimize consciousness, personal relationships, and healing in a manner that has much in common with the psychogenomic foundations of naturalistic and complementary medicine. The entire history of alternative and complementary approaches to healing is consistent with this new neuroscience world view about the role of psychological arousal and fascination in modulating gene expression, neurogenesis, and healing via the psychosocial and cultural rites of human societies.
New surgical treatment for the intractable nasal obstruction in patients with nasal allergy by using Argon Plasma Coagulator (APC) was introduced. Of patients with allergic rhinitis treated at our institute, 28 patients complaining nasal obstruction were treated APC surgery. Epithelization of the mucosa of inferior turbinate was almost completely accomplished at 4 weeks after surgery, at which time mucosal swelling was reduced, and nasal obstruction was ameliorated in all cases, though a crust and fibrin membrane adhered to the mucosa between 2 to 4 weeks after surgery, resulting in temporary exacerbation of nasal obstruction. Nasal obstruction was again aggravated in only one patient about 6 months after surgery, but such symptom could be ameliorated by re-coagulation. No bleeding and no smoke occurred in the operation. No morbidity was also noticed after operation. APC is easy to perform safely and effectively compared with another laser surgeries, and is useful for intractable nasal obstruction occurring in patients with allergic rhinitis.
The molecular mechanisms that control the axon pathfinding of different subtypes of dorsal root ganglia (DRG) neurons are poorly understood. To address whether Netrin-1-Neogenin/UNC-5 signaling contributes to sensory axon pathfinding, we cloned chick UNC5 homolog 3 (cUNC-5H3) and characterized the spatial, cellular and temporal expression patterns of Netrin-1, Neogenin and cUNC-5H3 in cutaneous and proprioceptive DRG neurons. We have found that Netrin-1 is only expressed by late-arising cutaneous neurons. In contrast, cUNC-5H3 expression is restricted to proprioceptive neurons. Neogenin is expressed in all DRG neurons. Our results indicate that the pathfinding molecules, Netrin-1 and cUNC-5H3 are differentially expressed by early cutaneous and proprioceptive neurons.
Mental retardation in Down's syndrome, human trisomy 21, is characterized by developmental delays, language and memory deficits and other cognitive abnormalities. Neurophysiological and functional information is needed to understand the mechanisms of mental retardation in Down's syndrome. The trisomy mouse models provide windows into the molecular and developmental effects associated with abnormal chromosome numbers. The distal segment of mouse chromosome 16 is homologous to nearly the entire long arm of human chromosome 21. Therefore, mice with full or segmental trisomy 16 (Ts65Dn) are considered reliable animal models of Down's syndrome. Ts65Dn mice demonstrate impaired learning in spatial tests and abnormalities in hippocampal synaptic plasticity. We hypothesize that the physiological impairments in the Ts65Dn mouse hippocampus can model the suboptimal brain function occuring at various levels of Down's syndrome brain hierarchy, starting at a single neuron, and then affecting simple and complex neuronal networks. Once these elements create the gross brain structure, their dysfunctional activity cannot be overcome by extensive plasticity and redundancy, and therefore, at the end of the maturation period the mind inside this brain remains deficient and delayed in its capabilities. The complicated interactions that govern this aberrant developmental process cannot be rescued through existing compensatory mechanisms. In summary, overexpression of genes from chromosome 21 shifts biological homeostasis in the Down's syndrome brain to a new less functional state.
The genetic hierarchy that controls myelination of peripheral nerves by Schwann cells includes the POU domain Oct-6/Scip/Tst-1and the zinc-finger Krox-20/Egr2 transcription factors. These pivotal transcription factors act to control the onset of myelination during development and tissue regeneration in adults following damage. In this report we demonstrate the involvement of a third transcription factor, the POU domain factor Brn-2. We show that Schwann cells express Brn-2 in a developmental profile similar to that of Oct-6 and that Brn-2 gene activation does not depend on Oct-6. Overexpression of Brn-2 in Oct-6-deficient Schwann cells, under control of the Oct-6 Schwann cell enhancer (SCE), results in partial rescue of the developmental delay phenotype, whereas compound disruption of both Brn-2 and Oct-6 results in a much more severe phenotype. Together these data strongly indicate that Brn-2 function largely overlaps with that of Oct-6 in driving the transition from promyelinating to myelinating Schwann cells.
Within the central nervous system (CNS), there is a differential susceptibility among cell types to certain pathological conditions believed to involve oxidative stress. Oligodendrocytes are extremely sensitive to oxidative stress, which correlates with a decreased ability to repair damage in mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA), as we have shown previously. To determine whether there is a causal relationship, studies were carried out to correct the deficit in repair of the oxidative damage in mtDNA in cultured oligodendrocytes. A vector containing a mitochondrial transport sequence (MTS) upstream of the sequence for human 8-oxoguanine-DNA glycosylase (OGG) was transfected into the cells. The efficiency of transfection and the localization of recombinant protein were determined by fluorescence microscopy and by Western blot analysis. Subsequent mtDNA repair studies, employing 100 micro M menadione to produce reactive oxygen species, showed a significant enhancement in repair of oxidative lesions in mtDNA of MTS-OGG transfected oligodendrocytes compared with cells transfected with vector only. Experiments were also conducted to determine the effect of changing mtDNA repair capacity on menadione-induced apoptosis in oligodendrocytes. These experiments show that targeting the OGG repair enzyme to mitochondria reduces the release of cytochrome c from the intermitochondrial space and the activation of caspase 9 in oligodendrocytes after exposure to menadione. Therefore, targeting of DNA repair enzymes to mitochondria appears to be a viable approach for the protection of cells against some of the deleterious effects of oxidative stress.
The 14-3-3 protein family comprises critical regulatory molecules involved in signaling during cell division, proliferation, and apoptosis. Despite extensive study, the functions of the 14-3-3 proteins in brain remain unclear. 14-3-3gamma, a subtype of the 14-3-3 family of proteins, was thought to be brain- and neuron-specific. Using RNA arbitrarily primed PCR, we identified an upregulated cDNA fragment of the 14-3-3gamma gene in primary cultures of astrocytes. Using Northern blot analysis, we confirmed this fragment was brain-specific. In cultures of astrocytes, 14-3-3gamma genes and proteins were differentially expressed at different ages and the proteins were distributed only in the cytoplasm. These results indicated that 14-3-3gamma was not neuron-specific but also expressed in astrocytes. The function of this protein in brain is unclear. Northern and Western blot analyses demonstrated that 14-3-3gamma mRNA and protein were upregulated in cultured astrocytes in an anaerobic chamber-induced ischemia model. The induction of 14-3-3gamma proteins was neither suppressed by an MAP kinase inhibitor (U0126) nor a PI-3 kinase inhibitor (LY294002). These data indicated that induction of 14-3-3gamma might not involve PI-3 and MAP kinase-dependent pathways. Using coimmunoprecipitation, we demonstrated that endogenous 14-3-3gamma bound to c-Raf-1 and p-Raf 259. As Raf is one of the critical serine/threonine kinases controlling cell growth, differentiation, and death, the binding of 14-3-3gamma to Raf indicates the critical role of this protein in ischemia-induced apoptosis and the changes in signal transduction in astrocytes in culture.
The human vestibular apparatus detects head movements and gravitational stimuli which impinge upon the mechanosensory hair cells of the inner ear. The hair cells, in turn, transduce these stimuli into electrical signals which are transmitted to the brain. These sensory cells are exquisitely responsive, signaling deflections of their mechanosensitive organelles as small as 1-2 nanometers. Remarkably, they are able to preserve this level of sensitivity even when confronted with large tonic stimuli, such as gravity. To accomplish this feat hair cells have devised a novel adaptation process that repositions the mechanotransduction apparatus on a millisecond time scale to allow high sensitivity over a broad operating range. Mechanotransduction in hair cells occurs via a direct gating mechanism in which hair bundle deflection focuses tension onto membrane-bound, cation-selective ion channels located near the tips of the hair bundle. Increased tension favors an open conformation of the channel and allows calcium to enter the cell. Elevated intracellular calcium promotes adaptation which has been hypothesized to result from the activity of a cluster of molecular motors that continually adjust the tension in the transduction apparatus. Although the transduction channel itself remains elusive, myosin Ic has recently been identified as a molecular component of the &quot;adaptation&quot; motor.
We have generated monoclonal antibodies (MAbs) against three proteins sec6, sec15, and exo84. These proteins have been shown to be components of the exocyst complex, a macromolecule required for many biological processes such as kidney epithelial formation and neuronal development. These antibodies can detect the three proteins by enzyme-linked immunoadsorbent assay (ELISA), Western blotting, immunofluorescence microscopy, and immunoprecipitation. Using these antibodies, we found that the three proteins have similar subcellular localization which changes upon cell differentiation. These three proteins also co-immunoprecipitate with each other. These results suggest that at least three exocyst subunits associate with each other in vivo and redistribute in response to cell differentiation. In the future, these antibodies should be useful in the cell biological and functional analysis of the exocyst complex under physiological and pathological conditions.

Recent advances in neuroscience, microelectronics, and information technology have allowed construction of miniature, but highly intelligent, devices to be implanted within the brain to perform in vitro diagnostic and therapeutic functions. However, there exists a significant problem in establishing an effective wireless data communication link between brain implants and external computer. This communication investigates this link and presents a new design using the mechanism of volume conduction of biological tissues. A theoretical model of volume conduction of the head is utilized to compute signal strength in data communication and the result is evaluated by a physical model. The two-way data communication sensitivity of the volume conduction channel is found to be symmetric, as suggested by the reciprocity theorem. A high-performance, x-shaped volume conduction antenna has been designed. Experiments are performed on animals which demonstrate the effectiveness of this volume conduction approach.
We analyzed 15 sessions of 64-channel electroencephalographic (EEG) data recorded from a highly trained subject during sessions in which he attempted to regulate power at 12 Hz over his left- and right-central scalp to control the altitude of a cursor moving toward target boxes placed at the top-, middle-, or bottom-right of a computer screen. We used infomax independent component analysis (ICA) to decompose 64-channel EEG data from trials in which the subject successfully up- or down-regulated the measured EEG signals. Applying time-frequency analysis to the time courses of activity of several of the resulting 64 independent EEG components revealed that successful regulation of the measured activity was accompanied by extensive, asymmetrical changes in power and coherence, at both nearby and distant frequencies, in several parts of cortex. A more complete understanding of these phenomena could help to explain the nature and locus of learned regulation of EEG rhythms and might also suggest ways to further optimize the performance of brain-computer interfaces.
Microprocessors, even those in PocketPCs, have adequate power for many real-time biofeedback applications for disabled people. This power allows design of portable or wearable devices that are smaller and lighter, and that have longer battery life compared to notebook-based systems. In this paper, we discuss a general-purpose hardware/software solution based on industrial or consumer devices and a C++ framework. Its flexibility and modularity make it adaptable to a wide range of situations. Moreover, its design minimizes system requirements and programming effort, thus allowing efficient systems to be built quickly and easily. Our design has been used to build two brain computer interface systems that were easily ported from the Win32 platform.
The effects of tactile stimuli on plasma oxytocin and neuropeptide Y (NPY) were investigated in 21 volunteers exposed to massage. Blood samples for basal values were drawn immediately before and immediately after finishing the massage. A third sample was drawn after 60 min of restricted rest. On focusing on the difference between oxytocin concentrations before and immediately after massage, we found a sex difference. An opposite sex difference was found for NPY. The results imply that there might be sex-related difference in neurohormonal response to tactile stimuli such as in massage, and the results contradict those of previously reported animal experiments.
Hereditary spastic paraplegia is a rare disorder with gait disturbance due to a degeneration of the corticospinal tract, sometimes accompanied by involvement of other systems. Out of the 20 loci known so far, eight genes have now been identified, allowing the first molecular and cell studies in the pathophysiology of the disorder. These should also help to understand the function of the corticospinal tract at the molecular level and design strategies to prevent and treat spasticity due to more common causes. The proteins encoded by these genes play a role in development, in signal transduction between axons and myelinating cells, in cellular, particularly axonal trafficking or in energy metabolism. Some of them have actions in several areas of cellular function. Here we review the present knowledge about the genes involved in hereditary spastic paraplegia, a field presently undergoing rapid change.
Parkinson's disease (PD) is a progressive neurodegenerative disease with no known cure and affects approximately 1% of the elderly population. The major question in PD relates to the selective loss of dopaminergic neurons in patients. The underlying mechanism of genetic dysfunction and environmental toxins in contributing to the pathogenesis of PD may be oxidative stress. The interactions of genetic and environmental factors in PD may provide some answers to the longstanding question. In particular, the possibility that iron may provide selectivity to genetic susceptibility or dopamine reactivity in dopaminergic neuronal death is enhanced by the neuroprotection demonstrated in transgenic mice overexpressing ferritin or the use of iron chelators in MPTP-induced PD mouse. It will be important to dissect and understand the contributions of genes, environment and intrinsic cellular states in the generation and progression of the pathophysiology of PD.
The recent identification and characterization of gene products responsible for familial forms of Parkinson disease (PD) have provided significant insights into the pathogenesis of PD. Collectively, these studies point towards ubiquitin-proteasome system (UPS) dysfunction as an underlying mechanism responsible for dopaminergic cell death in PD. Emerging evidence further indicates a complex interplay between UPS derangements and other PD pathogenetic factors, all interwoven in an integrated network leading to dopaminergic cell death in PD. Taken together, these findings suggest that neuronal degeneration in PD is a result of a cascade of events, rather than a primary pathogenic event. Here, we review the clues uncovered from various Mendelian-inherited forms of PD that have helped shaped our understanding of the molecular mechanisms underlying PD pathogenesis.
Comparative, production-based research on animal vocalizations can allow assessments of continuity in vocal communication processes across species, including humans, and may aid in the development of general frameworks relating specific constitutional attributes of callers to acoustic-structural details of their vocal output. Analyses were undertaken on vowel-like baboon grunts to examine variation attributable to caller identity and the intensity of the affective state underlying call production. Six hundred six grunts from eight adult females were analyzed. Grunts derived from 128 bouts of calling in two behavioral contexts: concerted group movements and social interactions involving mothers and their young infants. Each context was subdivided into a high- and low-arousal condition. Thirteen acoustic features variously predicted to reflect variation in either caller identity or arousal intensity were measured for each grunt bout, including tempo-, source- and filter-related features. Grunt bouts were highly individually distinctive, differing in a variety of acoustic dimensions but with some indication that filter-related features contributed disproportionately to individual distinctiveness. In contrast, variation according to arousal condition was associated primarily with tempo- and source-related features, many matching those identified as vehicles of affect expression in other nonhuman primate species and in human speech and other nonverbal vocal signals.
An acoustic pointing task was used to determine whether interaural temporal disparities (ITDs) conveyed by high-frequency &quot;transposed&quot; stimuli would produce larger extents of laterality than ITDs conveyed by bands of high-frequency Gaussian noise. The envelopes of transposed stimuli are designed to provide high-frequency channels with information similar to that conveyed by the waveforms of low-frequency stimuli. Lateralization was measured for low-frequency Gaussian noises, the same noises transposed to 4 kHz, and high-frequency Gaussian bands of noise centered at 4 kHz. Extents of laterality obtained with the transposed stimuli were greater than those obtained with bands of Gaussian noise centered at 4 kHz and, in some cases, were equivalent to those obtained with low-frequency stimuli. In a second experiment, the general effects on lateral position produced by imposed combinations of bandwidth, ITD, and interaural phase disparities (IPDs) on low-frequency stimuli remained when those stimuli were transposed to 4 kHz. Overall, the data were fairly well accounted for by a model that computes the cross-correlation subsequent to known stages of peripheral auditory processing augmented by low-pass filtering of the envelopes within the high-frequency channels of each ear.


The effects of resistance training on arterial blood pressure and muscle sympathetic nerve activity (MSNA) at rest have not been established. Although endurance training is commonly recommended to lower arterial blood pressure, it is not known whether similar adaptations occur with resistance training. Therefore, we tested the hypothesis that whole body resistance training reduces arterial blood pressure at rest, with concomitant reductions in MSNA. Twelve young [21 +/- 0.3 (SE) yr] subjects underwent a program of whole body resistance training 3 days/wk for 8 wk. Resting arterial blood pressure (n = 12; automated sphygmomanometer) and MSNA (n = 8; peroneal nerve microneurography) were measured during a 5-min period of supine rest before and after exercise training. Thirteen additional young (21 +/- 0.8 yr) subjects served as controls. Resistance training significantly increased one-repetition maximum values in all trained muscle groups (P &lt; 0.001), and it significantly decreased systolic (130 +/- 3 to 121 +/- 2 mmHg; P = 0.01), diastolic (69 +/- 3 to 61 +/- 2 mmHg; P = 0.04), and mean (89 +/- 2 to 81 +/- 2 mmHg; P = 0.01) arterial blood pressures at rest. Resistance training did not affect MSNA or heart rate. Arterial blood pressures and MSNA were unchanged, but heart rate increased after 8 wk of relative inactivity for subjects in the control group (61 +/- 2 to 67 +/- 3 beats/min; P = 0.01). These results indicate that whole body resistance exercise training might decrease the risk for development of cardiovascular disease by lowering arterial blood pressure but that reductions of pressure are not coupled to resistance exercise-induced decreases of sympathetic tone.
Probabilistic learning was studied in spider-fearful and in panic-prone individuals. Participants learned to predict the occurrence of aversive outcomes on the basis of relevant and irrelevant stimuli. The salience of irrelevant stimuli was manipulated by the use of threat-related objects, i.e. pictures of spiders and pictures of emergency situations. In spider-fearful individuals, the presence of irrelevant pictures of spiders interfered with the adequate acquisition of the association between neutral relevant stimuli and aversive outcomes. Salient, i.e. threat-related, irrelevant stimuli exerted competitive effects on the accruing of associative strengths between neutral stimuli and aversive outcomes in spider-fearful, but not in panic-prone, individuals.
The Drosophila circadian clock is an ideal model system for teasing out the molecular mechanisms of circadian behavior and the means by which animals synchronize to day-night cycles. The clock that drives behavioral rhythms, located in the lateral neurons in the central brain, consists of a feedback loop of the circadian genes period (per) and timeless (tim). The molecular cycle, roughly 24 h long, is constantly reset by the environment. This review focuses on the main input pathways of the dominant circadian zeitgeber, light. Light acts directly on the clock primarily through cryptochrome (cry), a deep brain blue-light photoreceptor. CRY activation causes rapid TIM degradation, which is a predicted means of resetting the clock both on a daily basis at dawn and on an acute basis following an entraining light pulse during the night hours. In the absence of cry, the clock can still be driven by photic input through the visual system, though the mechanisms underlying this entrainment are unclear. Temperature can also entrain the clock, although the mechanisms by which this occurs are also unclear.
The purpose of this study was to develop and evaluate a biomechanical model of lumbar back extension over a wide range of positions for the lumbar spine, incorporating the latest information on muscle geometry and intra-abdominal pressure (IAP). Analysis of the Visible Human data was utilised in order to obtain anatomical information unavailable from the literature and magnetic resonance imaging was used to generate subject-specific anatomical descriptions. The model was evaluated by comparisons with measured maximal voluntary static back-extension torques. Predicted maximal specific muscle tensions agreed well with in vitro measurements from the literature. When modelling the maximal static back-extension torque production, it was possible to come fairly close to simultaneous equilibrium about all the lumbar discs simply by a uniform muscle activation of all back-extensor muscles (the caudal part showed, however, less agreement). This indicates that equilibrium in the lumbar spine is mainly regulated by passive mechanical properties, e.g. muscle length changes due to postural changes, rather than due to complex muscle coordination, as earlier proposed. The model showed that IAP (measured during torque exertions) contributes about 10% of the total maximal voluntary back-extensor torque and that it can unload the spine from compression. The spinal unloading effect from the IAP was greatest with the spine held in a flexed position. This is in opposition to the effects of changed muscle lever arm lengths, which for a given load would give the largest spinal unloading in the extended position. These findings have implications for the evaluation of optimal lifting techniques.
Heme and iron metabolism are of considerable interest and importance in normal brain function as well as in neurodegeneration and neuropathologically following traumatic injury and hemorrhagic stroke. After a cerebral hemorrhage, large numbers of hemoglobin-containing red blood cells are released into the brain's parenchyma and/or subarachnoid space. After hemolysis and the subsequent release of heme from hemoglobin, several pathways are employed to transport and metabolize this heme and its iron moiety to protect the brain from potential oxidative stress. Required for these processes are various extracellular and intracellular transporters and storage proteins, the heme oxygenase isozymes and metabolic proteins with differing localizations in the various brain-cell types. In the past several years, additional new genes and proteins have been discovered that are involved in the transport and metabolism of heme and iron in brain and other tissues. These discoveries may provide new insights into neurodegenerative diseases like Alzheimer's, Parkinson's, and Friedrich's ataxia that are associated with accumulation of iron in specific brain regions or in specific organelles. The present review will examine the uptake and metabolism of heme and iron in the brain and will relate these processes to blood removal and to the potential mechanisms underlying brain injury following cerebral hemorrhage.
In this paper, we propose a standardized set of 480 black-and-white line drawings, half meaningful and half meaningless. Meaningful pictures represent a common object, and were selected from the Snodgrass and Vanderwart set (1980). Meaningless pictures include 120 chimeric objects (made up of two halves of real objects) and 120 nonobjects, that were constructed from the meaningful pictures while controlling for visual complexity. We report the results of two experiments designed to standardize the revisited Snodgrass and Vanderwart set along two important dimensions for picture processing: object manipulability (Experiment 1) and pictorial ambiguity (Experiment 2). The relevance of these dimensions is discussed. Experiment 1 permit us to sort objects into four manipulability categories (i.e., the ease and distinctiveness with which use of the object can be mimed) and to propose a manipulability index. This experiment provides additional evidence for a partial overlap in the dichotomy between man-made objects and living things, on the one hand, and manipulable and unmanipulable objects, on the other hand. In Experiment 2, a pictorial ambiguity index was computed for meaningful and meaningless pictures. The results of this experiment point the distinction between chimeric objects and nonobjects showing that chimeric objects are more complex to process than nonobjects and objects. This standardized set of pictures provides a database and an hopefully useful tool for research in cognitive neuroscience.

The role of the family in the management of Type-I diabetes is gaining recognition. In countries where the adolescent is dependent on the family for medical needs, the family's role is all the more important. At times, when the family is uncooperative, the care of the adolescent is hampered, making psychosocial intervention even more difficult. The following case study illustrates the difficulty encountered while working with a young diabetic belonging to an Indian family. The issues related to parental role and management of diabetes-related problems are discussed.
Various personal, familial, and socio-cultural factors play a crucial role in the development of sexuality and sexual practices. They often influence the occurrence and maintenance of sexual dysfunctions. Therapies with individuals with sexual dysfunctions often emphasize the involvement of both the partners. Issues related to single males, especially in the Indian context, have not been explored. The present study is a retrospective analysis of clinical case records of single males who reported sexual dysfunctions between the years 1990 to 2000. Thirty-eight clinical case records were analyzed for the demographic details, nature of the problems, and interventions provided with the aim of exploring the reported symptomatology, precipitating and maintaining factors, prevalent beliefs about the causation of sexual dysfunction, and the outcome of interventions. The role of cultural and psychosocial issues is discussed and the need for research in this area is emphasized.
Elderly insomniacs are often treated pharmacologically with benzodiazepines, antihistamines, or natural products. A double-blind, randomized, crossover, placebo-controlled study was performed to assess the comparative pharmacodynamics of single doses of temazepam (15 and 30 mg), diphenhydramine (50 and 75 mg), and valerian (400 and 800 mg) in 14 healthy elderly volunteers (mean age, 71.6 years; range, 65-89). Assessments were made at 0, 0.5, 1, 2, 3, 4, 6, and 8 hours postdosing with use of validated measures of subjective sedation and mood (visual analogue scales, Tufts University Benzodiazepine scale) and psychomotor performance (manual tracking and digit symbol substitution tests). Temazepam had dose-dependent effects on sedation and psychomotor ability with a distinct time course. Temazepam 30 mg had the most detrimental effect on psychomotor ability (p &lt; 0.001 compared with all other treatments). Temazepam 30 mg and both doses of diphenhydramine elicited significantly greater sedation than placebo (p &lt; 0.05, all), and temazepam had the greatest effect. There was no difference in sedation scores between 50 and 75 mg diphenhydramine. Sedative effects were slightly lesser with 15 mg temazepam and were not significant in comparison with placebo. Psychomotor impairment was evident after administration of 75 mg diphenhydramine in comparison with placebo on the manual tracking test (p &lt; 0.05); this was less than the impairment with 30 mg temazepam (p &lt; 0.001) but similar to that with 15 mg temazepam (NS). No psychomotor impairment was detected with 50 mg diphenhydramine. Valerian was not different from placebo on any measure of psychomotor performance or sedation.
Focally treating the head brain of the medicinal leech Hirudo medicinalis with various biogenic amines affected the initiation, termination and maintenance of fictive swimming (i.e., the neural correlate of swimming). Application of serotonin to saline surrounding only the head brain inhibited fictive swimming, whereas removing serotonin induced swimming. This contrasts sharply with previous observations that serotonin applied to the nerve cord induces swimming. Although application of octopamine to the brain activated swimming, a mixture of octopamine and serotonin inhibited swimming. Subsequent removal of this mixture from the brain activated robust swimming and was more potent for activating swimming than either the removal of serotonin or the application of octopamine. Swim episodes induced by brain-specific manipulations of octopamine had more swim bursts per episode than those induced by serotonin. These brain-specific effects of the amines on fictive swimming are probably due to the modulation of higher-order circuits that control locomotion in the leech. We observed that serotonin or a mixture of serotonin and octopamine hyperpolarized an identified descending brain interneuron known as Tr2. Removal of the mixture caused Tr2 to exhibit membrane potential depolarizations that correlated in time with the expression of swim episodes.

In addition to its established role in the immune system, tumour necrosis factor alpha (TNFalpha) exerts complex regulatory actions on adipose tissue. TNFalpha is produced in and secreted by the adipocyte and thus is in a position to exert a paracrine and/or autocrine role within adipose tissue. TNFalpha affects many aspects of adipocyte function, from adipocyte development to lipid metabolism. Bringing together all of these diverse actions, TNFalpha appears to play a general role in reducing adipose tissue mass. Dysregulation of TNFalpha production and/or action could be one facet in the development of cachexia and obesity, as well as associated metabolic disorders such as insulin resistance.
Unlike normal subjects, in patients with anorexia nervosa (AN) the GH response to GHRH is refractory to the increasing and inhibitory effect of cholinergic agonists and antagonists, respectively. This cholinergic impairment could reflect malnutrition-induced exhaustion of acetylcholine (Ach) precursors. We studied whether treatment with glycerophosphocholine (GLY), an Ach precursor, could disclose the potentiating effect of pyridostigmine (PD) on the GH response to GHRH in AN. In 6 young women with AN (AW) we studied the GH response to iv GHRH (1.0 microg/kg) alone and combined with oral PD (120 mg) before and after 1 month of oral treatment with GLY (400 mg thrice daily). Eight age-matched normal women (NW) were studied as controls. Before GLY, basal GH levels in AW were higher (p &lt; 0.05) than in NW. The GH response to GHRH in AW was higher (p &lt; 0.05) than in NW. PD failed to modify the GHRH-induced GH rise in AW, while it enhanced it in NW (p &lt; 0.05). One month treatment with GLY in AW did not modify the GH response to GHRH either alone or combined with PD. This study shows the existence of a derangement in the cholinergic control of somatotroph function in AN and indicates that treatment with Ach precursors does not exert any effect on this impairment. This could reflect primary alterations of cholinergic neurons, though the effectiveness of more prolonged treatment and/or higher doses of cholinergic precursors needs to be verified.
Arachidonoyl-serotonin inhibits in a mixed-type manner the metabolism of the endocannabinoid anandamide by the enzyme fatty acid amidohydrolase. In the present study, compounds related to arachidonoyl-serotonin have been synthesised and investigated for their ability to inhibit anandamide hydrolysis by this enzyme in rat brain homogenates. Removal of the 5-hydroxy from the serotonin head group of arachidonoyl-serotonin produced a compound (N-arachidonoyltryptamine) that was a 2.3-fold weaker inhibitor of anandamide hydrolysis, but which also produced its inhibition by a mixed-type manner (Ki(slope) 1.3 microM; Ki(intercept) 44 microM). Replacement of the amide linkage in this compound by an ester group further reduced the potency. In contrast, replacement of the arachidonoyl side chain by a linolenoyl side chain did not affect the observed potency. N-(Fur-3-ylmethyl) arachidonamide (UCM707), N-(fur-3-ylmethyl)linolenamide and N-(fur-3-ylmethyl)oleamide inhibited anandamide hydrolysis with pI50 values of 4.53, 5.36 and 5.25, respectively. The linolenamide derivative was also found to be a mixed-type inhibitor. It is concluded that the 5-hydroxy group of arachidonoyl-serotonin contributes to, but is not essential for, inhibitory potency at fatty acid amidohydrolase.
The authors examined the role of online order control in the psychological refractory period (PRP) paradigm. In the first 2 experiments, participants switched between color-letter and letter-color orders so that subtask order was isolated as the only element being switched. The results indicated that order switching impaired the 2 PRP responses and modulated the PRP effect. Importantly, these effects were reduced by advance preparation, demonstrating that order representation was activated before the subtasks themselves. Preparation for subtask order did not reflect preparation for hand order, as shown in Experiment 3. In addition, there was no evidence that subtask order information dissipated between trials. The relevance of the results to theories of the PRP paradigm and task switching is discussed.
T helper cytokine and IgG subtype responses were studied in three strains of mice (C57BL/6J, Swiss albino, BALB/c; n=90 per strain) immunized with live Japanese encephalitis virus (JEV) by intraperitoneal (IP), subcutaneous (SC) and peroral (PO) routes. Lymphocytes obtained from the spleens of immunized and control mice were stimulated in vitro with JEV for 48 h and the supernatants were assayed for the presence of the cytokines IL-4 and IFN-gamma. JEV-specific IgG isotypes were also measured in the sera of immunized mice. T helper cytokine responses in mice immunized with JEV were found to be strain- and route-specific in the three species tested. Moreover, they were also dependent on the type of immunogen used (live vs killed virus), as well as the number of doses administered. C57BL/6J and BALB/c mice were more uniform in their T helper responses compared with the outbred Swiss albino mice and induced a good Th1 response (P&lt;0.001). Among the three routes evaluated, the IP and SC routes consistently elicited a Th1 response compared with the PO route (P&lt;0.001), where an initial Th2-type response reverted to a Th1 response after repeated immunization. Live JEV induced a Th1 response while the commercial killed vaccine induced a predominant Th2 profile.

The five senses of sight, hearing, smell, taste, and touch, enumerated by Aristotle, were incremented in the early-nineteenth century by the muscle sense, multiple dimensions of touch, and a movement sense. Aristotle explicitly excluded a sixth sense, and five remains the number of senses in popular imagination. The division of touch into several sensations was entertained and rejected by Aristotle, but it was given anatomical, physiological and psychophysical support in the late-nineteenth century. A separate muscle sense was proposed in the late-eighteenth century, with experimental evidence to support it. However, before these developments, behavioral evidence of the vestibular (movement) sense was available from studies of vertigo, although it was not integrated with the anatomy and physiology of the labyrinth until the nineteenth century. The history of the search for a sixth sense is outlined, and the evidence adduced to support the divisions is assessed. Behavioral evidence generally has been accorded less weight than that from anatomy and physiology.
The presence of a steeply sloping or depressed nasal floor within the nasal cavity of Neandertals is frequently mentioned as a likely specialization or autapomorphy. The depressed nasal floor has also been seen as contributing to a relatively more capacious nasal cavity in Neandertals, which is tied to cold-climate respiratory adaptation and energetics. These observations have been limited largely to a relatively few intact crania, and the character states associated with this trait have not been as precisely codified or analyzed as those published for Plio-Pleistocene hominins (McCollum et al., 1993, J. Hum. Evol. 24, 87; McCollum, 2000, Am. J. Phys. Anthrop. 112, 275). This study examines the internal nasal floor topography in complete crania and isolated maxillae in European, west Asian, and African fossil Homo (n=158) including 25 Neandertals, and a wide range of recent humans from Europe, the Near East, and Africa (n=522). The configuration of the internal nasal floor relative to the nasal cavity entrance is codified as: 1) level, forming a smooth continuous plane; 2) sloped or mildly stepped; or 3) bilevel with a pronounced vertical depression. The frequency of these nasal floor configurations, and their relationship to both nasal margin cresting patterning and a comprehensive set of nasofacial metrics is examined. Neandertals show a high frequency of the bilevel (depressed) configuration in both adults and subadults (80%), but this configuration is also present in lower frequencies in Middle Pleistocene African, Late Pleistocene non-Neandertal (Skhul, Qafzeh), and European Later Upper Paleolithic samples (15%-50%). The bilevel configuration is also present in lower frequencies (ca. 10%) in all recent human samples, but attains nearly 20% in some sub-Saharan African samples. Across extinct and extant Homo (excluding Neandertals), internal nasal floor configuration is not associated with piriform aperture nasal margin patterning, but the two are strongly linked in Neandertals. Variation in internal nasal floor configuration in recent humans is primarily associated with internal nasal fossa breadth and nasal bridge elevation, whereas in fossil hominins, it is associated primarily with variation in facial height. Cold-climate and activity-related thermal adaptation as an explanation for the high frequency of pronounced nasal floor depression in Neandertals is inconsistent with all available data. Alternatively, variation in internal nasal floor configuration is more likely related to stochastically derived populational differences in fetal nasofacial growth patterns that do not sharply differentiate genus Homo taxa (i.e., cladistically), but do phenetically differentiate groups, in particular the Neandertals, especially when considered in combination with other nasofacial features.
To characterize, over time, cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) virus-load change in clinically stable patients, human immunodeficiency virus (HIV)-1 RNA levels were measured in serial CSF samples and in plasma samples obtained, during periods of 20 days-6 years, from 17 HIV-infected individuals not receiving antiretroviral treatment. Longitudinal trends were analyzed by linear regression and restricted maximum-likelihood techniques. CSF HIV-1 RNA levels varied within a restricted range (+/-0.5 log(10) copies/mL) around each subject-specific mean. Although 16 of the 17 subjects had CSF slopes not significantly different from zero, slopes that were more positive were associated with lower CD4 counts. In an individual patient, a CSF virus-load change &gt;0.5 log(10) copies/mL may be clinically significant. Furthermore, our data suggest that, if the CSF virus load reflects the size of the reservoir of infected cells in the central nervous system, this reservoir may increase in those individuals with advanced immunosuppression but is stable, over several years, in patients without AIDS.
A new neural network model is introduced in this paper. The aim of the proposed Sierpinski neural networks is to provide a simple and biologically plausible neural network architecture that produces emergent complex spatio-temporal patterns through the activity of the output neurons of the network and is able to perform computational tasks. Such networks may play an important role in the analysis and understanding of complex dynamic activity observed at various levels of biological neural systems. The proposed Sierpinski neural networks are described in detail and their functioning is analyzed. We discuss about emerging neural activity patterns and their interpretations, neuro-computation with such emerging activity patterns, and also possible implications for computational neuroscience.
We investigated the expression of P2X5, P2X7, P2Y1 and P2Y2 receptor subtypes in normal human epidermis and in relation to markers of proliferation (PCNA and Ki-67), keratinocyte differentiation (cytokeratin K10 and involucrin) and markers of apoptosis (TUNEL and anticaspase-3). Using immunohistochemistry, we showed that each of the four receptors was expressed in a spatially distinct zone of the epidermis, suggesting different functional roles for these receptors. Functional studies were performed on primary cultures of human keratinocytes and on explanted rat skin, where different P2 receptor subtype agonists and antagonists were applied to cultured keratinocytes or injected subcutaneously into the skin, respectively. An increase in cell number was caused by low doses of the nonspecific P2 receptor agonist ATP, the P2Y2 receptor agonist UTP (p&lt;0.001), and the P2Y1 receptor agonist 2MeSADP (p&lt;0.05). There was a significant decrease in cell number as a result of treatment with the P2X5 receptor agonist ATPgammaS (p&lt;0.001) and the P2X7 receptor agonist BzATP (p&lt;0.001). Suramin caused a significant block in the effect of 100 microm ATP (p&lt;0.01) and 1000 microm ATP (p&lt;0.001) on cell number. These results imply that different purinergic receptors have different functional roles in the human epidermis with P2Y1 and P2Y2 receptors controlling proliferation, while P2X5 and P2X7 receptors control early differentiation, terminal differentiation and death of keratinocytes, respectively.
The aetiopathogenesis of acute unilateral peripheral vestibular dysfunction (APV), also known as vestibular neuritis, is still debated: the principal cause is viral infection with vascular factors second in importance. Plasmatic D-dimer, considered a plasmatic index of hypercoagulation, was measured in a group of 45 APV patients and in a group of 25 patients suffering from Mnire's disease. Measurements were taken both during the acute stage and after a four to six week period of pharmacological washout. The mean D-dimer levels were significantly higher than those measured in the controls both during the acute phase (301 SD161 vs 202 SD113 ng/mL) and after follow up (304 SD211 vs 192 SD111 ng/mL) (p = 0.008). Moreover, during the acute stage 23 of the APV patients (51.1 per cent) had plasmatic D-dimer levels above the upper normal limit (i.e.: &lt;300 ng/mL), compared to four of those with Mnire's disease (16 per cent). Our results lead us to postulate an involvement of the haemostatic system in APV.
The Neuroscience Institute of Schizophrenia and Allied Disorders's (NISAD) &quot;Gift of Hope&quot; Tissue Donor Program is a volunteer programme for people who wish to donate their brain when they die for neuroscience research into schizophrenia. Organ donation for purposes of research differs from transplant donation in a number of ways, most notably the absence of a single recipient. Within a particular community, however, (people with schizophrenia and their carers) the single recipient is replaced by a sense of shared experience and preventing suffering in others. Donors have an investment in the research.
Using in vivo microdialysis in the freely moving rat we have examined the effects of 5-HT(6) receptor antagonism on the neurochemical outcome of antidepressant treatment. Acute administration of both desipramine (10 mg/kg s.c.) and venlafaxine (10 mg/kg s.c.) produced a 2 fold increase in extracellular noradrenaline (NA) but no change in frontal cortex dopamine (DaA), 5-HT or glutamate. Fluoxetine (20 mg/kg s.c.) produced no change in extracellular levels of any of the neurotransmitters examined. SB-271046 produced a 3 fold increase in extracellular glutamate. Combination treatment of SB-271046 with each antidepressant produced no change in the antidepressant-induced changes in NA, DA or 5-HT. In contrast, both fluoxetine and venlafaxine attenuated the SB-271046-induced increase in extracellular glutamate, suggesting that 5-HT and possibly NA may be having an inhibitory action on the excitatory pathways enhanced by 5-HT(6) receptor blockade. Furthermore, these data indicate that the neurochemical effects induced by NA and/or 5-HT reuptake inhibitors are not enhanced by 5-HT(6) receptor blockade indicating that 5-HT(6) receptor antagonists are unlikely to augment the therapeutic efficacy of these types of antidepressants.

Cocaine self-administration is associated with a propensity to relapse in humans and reinstatement of drug seeking in rats after prolonged withdrawal periods. These behaviors are hypothesized to be mediated by molecular neuroadaptations within the mesolimbic dopamine system. However, in most studies of drug-induced neuroadaptations, cocaine was experimenter-delivered and molecular measurements were performed after short withdrawal periods. In the present study, rats were trained to self-administer intravenous cocaine or oral sucrose (a control non-drug reward) for 10 days (6-h/day) and were killed following 1, 30, or 90 days of reward withdrawal. Tissues from the accumbens and ventral tegmental area (VTA) were assayed for candidate molecular neuroadaptations, including enzyme activities of cAMP-dependent protein kinase (PKA) and adenylate cyclase (AC), and protein expression of cyclin-dependent kinase 5 (cdk5), tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) and glutamate receptor subunits (GluR1, GluR2 and NMDAR1). In the accumbens of cocaine-trained rats, GluR1 and NMDAR1 levels were increased on days 1 and 90, while GluR2 levels were increased on days 1 and 30, but not day 90; PKA activity levels were increased on days 1 and 30, but not day 90, while AC activity, TH and cdk5 levels were unaltered. In the VTA of cocaine-trained rats, NMDAR1 levels were increased for up to 90 days, while GluR2 levels were increased only on day 1; TH and Cdk5 levels were increased only on day 1, while PKA and AC activity levels were unaltered. Cocaine self-administration produces long-lasting molecular neuroadaptations in the VTA and accumbens that may underlie cocaine relapse during periods of abstinence.
alpha-Synuclein accumulation plays an important role in the pathogenesis of Lewy body disease (LBD) and Parkinson's disease (PD). Although the mechanisms are not yet clear, it is possible that dysregulation of the extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK) might play a role. As caveolins form scaffolds onto which signaling molecules such as ERK can assemble, we propose that signaling alterations associated with alpha-synuclein accumulation and neurodegeneration, might be mediated via caveolae. Therefore, the objective of the present study was to investigate the potential contribution of alterations in the caveolar system in mediating alpha-synuclein effects on the ERK signaling pathway. For this, synuclein-transfected B103 neuroblastoma cells were used as a model system. In this cell line, caveolin-1 expression was up-regulated, whereas, ERK was down-regulated. ERK was weakly but consistently co-immunoprecipitated with alpha-synuclein but caveolin-1 did not co-immunoprecipitate with alpha-synuclein. Moreover, treatment of alpha-synuclein- overexpressing cells with caveolin-1 antisense oligonucleotides resulted in stimulation of ERK activity, with amelioration of the neuritic alterations. Transduction of alpha-synuclein-overexpressing cells, with an adenoviral vector directing the expression of ERK, resulted in suppression of caveolin-1 expression and re-establishment of the normal patterns of neurite outgrowth. These results suggest that alpha-synuclein may also interfere with ERK signaling by dysregulating caveolin-1 expression. Thus, the caveolin-1/ERK pathway could be a therapeutic target for the alpha-synuclein-related neurodegenerative disorders.
Blockade of mitochondrial permeability transition protects against hypoglycemic brain damage. To study the mechanisms downstream from mitochondria that may cause neuronal death, we investigated the effects of cyclosporin A on subcellular localization of apoptosis-inducing factor and cytochrome c, activation of the cysteine proteases calpain and caspase-3, as well as its effect on brain extracellular calcium concentrations. Redistribution of cytochrome c occurred at 30 min of iso-electricity, whereas translocation of apoptosis-inducing factor to nuclei occurred at 30 min of recovery following 30 min of iso-electricity. Active caspase-3 and calpain-induced fodrin breakdown products were barely detectable in the dentate gyrus and CA1 region of the hippocampus of rat brain exposed to 30 or 60 min of insulin-induced hypoglycemia. However, 30 min or 3 h after recovery of blood glucose levels, fodrin breakdown products and active caspase-3 markedly increased, concomitant with a twofold increase in caspase-3-like enzymatic activity. When rats were treated with neuroprotective doses of cyclosporin A, but not with FK 506, the redistribution of apoptosis-inducing factor and cytochrome c was reduced and fodrin breakdown products and active caspase-3 immuno-reactivity was diminished whereas the extracellular calcium concentration was unaffected. We conclude that hypoglycemia leads to mitochondrial permeability transition which, upon recovery of energy metabolism, mediates the activation of caspase-3 and calpains, promoting cell death.
Heme oxygenase (HO) is implicated in protection against oxidative stress, proliferation and apoptosis in many cell types, including neurons. We utilized olfactory receptor neurons (ORNs) as a model to define the roles of HO-1 and HO-2 in neuronal development and survival, and to determine the mediators of these effects. The olfactory system is a useful model as ORNs display neurogenesis post-natally and do not contain nitric oxide synthase (NOS) activity, which could confound results. HO isoforms were expressed in ORNs during embryogenesis and post-natally. Mice null for either HO-1 or HO-2 displayed decreased proliferation of neuronal precursors. However, apoptosis was increased only in HO-2 null mice. Cyclic GMP immunostaining was reduced in ORNs in both genotypes, providing direct evidence that HO mediates cGMP production in vivo. Bilirubin immunostaining was reduced only in HO-2 null mice. These roles for HO-1 and HO-2 were confirmed using detergent ablation of the epithelium to observe increased neurogenesis of ORNs after target disruption in HO null mice. Primary cultures of ORNs revealed that proliferative and survival effects of HO were mediated through cGMP and bilirubin, respectively. These results support a role for HO, the CO-cGMP signaling system and bilirubin in neurodevelopment and in response to injury.
Seizures were induced in rats by intraperitoneal injection of pentylenetetrazole (PTZ, 70 mg/kg), followed, 30 min later, by injection of [1-13C]glucose and [1,2-13C]acetate. Analyses of extracts from cortex, subcortex and cerebellum were performed using 13C magnetic resonance spectroscopy and HPLC. It could be shown that PTZ affected different brain regions differently. The total amounts of glutamate, glutamine, GABA, aspartate and taurine were decreased in the cerebellum and unchanged in the other brain regions. GABAergic neurones in the cortex and subcortex were not affected, whereas those in the cerebellum showed a pronounced decrease of GABA synthesis. However, glutamatergic neurones in all brain regions showed a decrease in glutamate labelling and in addition a decreased turnover in cerebellum. It could be shown that this decrease was in the metabolic pool of glutamate whereas release of glutamate was unaffected since glutamine labelling from glutamate was unchanged. Aspartate turnover was also decreased in all brain regions. Changes in astrocyte metabolism were not detected, indicating that PTZ had no effect on astrocyte metabolism in the early postictal stage.
The inhibitors okadaic acid (OA), fostriecin (FOS) and cyclosporin A (CsA), were used to investigate the roles of protein phosphatases in regulating exocytosis in rat brain synaptosomes by measuring glutamate release and the release of the styryl dye FM 2-10. Depolarization was induced by 30 mM KCl, or 0.3 mM or 1 mM 4-aminopyridine (4AP). OA and FOS produced a similar partial inhibition of KCl- and 0.3 mM 4AP- evoked exocytosis in both assays, but had little effect upon exocytosis evoked by 1 mM 4AP. In contrast, CsA had no effect upon KCl- and 0.3 mM 4AP-evoked exocytosis, but significantly enhanced glutamate release but not FM 2-10 dye release evoked by 1 mM 4AP. None of the phosphatase inhibitors changed calcium signals from FURA-2-loaded synaptosomes either before or after depolarization. Pretreatment with 100 nM phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate abolished the inhibitory effect of OA on exocytosis induced by 0.3 mM 4AP. Taken together, these results show that exocytosis from synaptosomes has a phosphatase-sensitive and phosphatase-insensitive component, and that there are two modes of phosphatase-sensitive exocytosis that can be elicited by different depolarization conditions. Moreover, these two modes are differentially sensitive to phosphatase 2A and 2B.

This review considers the relative roles of sprouting stimuli, perisynaptic Schwann cells and neuromuscular activity in axonal sprouting at the neuromuscular junction in partially denervated muscles. A number of sprouting stimuli, including insulin-like growth factor II, which are generated from inactive muscle fibers in partially denervated and paralyzed skeletal muscles, has been considered. There is also evidence that perisynaptic Schwann cells induce and guide axonal sprouting in adult partially denervated muscles. Excessive neuromuscular activity significantly reduces bridging of perisynaptic Schwann cell processes between innervated and denervated endplates and thereby inhibits axonal sprouting in partially denervated adult muscles. Elimination of neuromuscular activity is also detrimental to sprouting in these muscles, suggesting that calcium influx into the nerve is crucial for axonal sprouting. The role of neuromuscular activity in axonal sprouting will be considered critically in the context of the roles of sprouting stimuli and perisynaptic Schwann cells in the process of axonal sprouting.
Most molecules that are present at synapses are glycosylated with carbohydrates, and some carbohydrate structures are themselves uniquely synaptic in their localization. Thus, proteins or lipids at the synapse may bear distinct carbohydrates that alter their localization or function. Here, I will review the evidence that there are unique synaptic carbohydrates at the neuromuscular junction. Then, I will review the evidence that such carbohydrates can affect the function of synaptic proteins, with particular attention to agrin, dystroglycan, and the neural cell adhesion molecule (NCAM). Finally, I will review recent data that demonstrates a role for one carbohydrate structure, the cytotoxic T cell (CT) antigen, in neuromuscular development. These studies suggest that glycosylation is an important modification to consider in studies of synapse formation and function.
Neuromuscular synapse elimination, Wallerian degeneration and peripheral neuropathies are not normally considered as related phenomena. However, recent studies of mutant and transgenic mice, particularly the Wld(S) mutant-in which orthograde degeneration is delayed following axotomy-suggest that re-evaluation of possible links between natural, traumatic and pathogenic regression of synapses may be warranted. During developmental synapse elimination from polyneuronally innervated junctions, some motor nerve terminals progressively and asynchronously vacate motor endplates. A form of asynchronous synapse withdrawal, strongly resembling synapse elimination, also occurs from mononeuronally-innervated motor endplates following axotomy in young adult Wld(S) mutant mice. A similar pattern is observed in skeletal muscles of several neuropathic mutants, including mouse models of dying-back neuropathies, motor neuron disease and-remarkably-models of neurodegenerative diseases such as Huntington's and Alzheimer's diseases. Taken together with recent analysis of synaptic remodelling at neuromuscular junctions in Drosophila, a strong candidate for a common regulatory mechanism in these diverse conditions is one based on protein ubiquitination/deubiquitination. Axotomised neuromuscular junctions in Wld(S) mutant mice offer favourable experimental opportunities for examining developmental mechanisms of synaptic regression, that may also benefit our understanding of how degeneration in the synaptic compartment of a neuron is initiated, and its role in progressive, whole-cell neuronal degeneration.
At developing neuromuscular synapses in vertebrates, different motor axon inputs to muscle fibers compete for maintenance of their synapses. Competition results in progressive changes in synaptic structure and strength that lead to the weakening and loss of some inputs, a process that has been called synapse elimination. At the same time, a single input is strengthened and maintained throughout adult life, consistently recruiting muscle fibers to contract even at rapid firing rates. Work over the last decade has led to an understanding of some of the cell biological mechanisms that underlie competition and how these culminate in synapse elimination. We discuss current ideas about how activity modulates neuromuscular synaptic competition, how competition leads to synapse loss, and how these processes are modulated by cell-cell signaling. A common feature of competition at neuromuscular as well as CNS synapses is that temporally correlated activity seems to slow or prevent competition, while uncorrelated activity seems to trigger or enhance competition. Important questions that remain to be addressed include how patterns of motor neuron activity affect synaptic strength, what is the temporal relationship between changes in synaptic strength and structure, and what cellular signals mediate synapse loss. Answers to these questions will expand our understanding of the mechanisms by which activity edits synaptic structure and function, writing permanent changes in neural circuitry.
Acetylcholinesterase (AChE) was the first identified synaptic component, characterized by its catalytic affinity for choline esters, and for a long time provided the conceptual scaffold for studies of the neuromuscular junction (NMJ). AChE was the first protein localized to the NMJ, in the 1930s, and its local expression shown to be regulated by the motoneuron in 1937. By the late 1940s a histochemical procedure was developed to visualize the enzyme at synapses, opening up a new era in the study of synaptic structure and function. This enzyme was also the first synaptic component to be purified, quantified, and later crystallized for structural and functional studies. Thus, historically, AChE has played a pivotal role in our understanding of NMJ development and function.AChE occurs in multiple oligomeric forms differing in their hydrophobic character and association with non-catalytic subunits that act as targeting sequences to insure correct localization at the cellular level. The predominant, if not unique, form of the enzyme responsible for terminating neuromuscular transmission is the collagen-tailed form of the enzyme attached to the synaptic basal lamina. This very large protein consists of three catalytic tetramers covalently linked to the three-stranded collagen-like tail (ColQ). The transcripts encoding AChE in muscle are preferentially expressed at sites of nerve-muscle contact and the AChE locally synthesized and assembled. Once externalized, the enzyme appears to be localized through interactions with the proteoglycan perlecan and subsequently covalently attached to the synaptic extracellular matrix. Thus a hierarchical series of events involving localized transcription and translation of the catalytic and non-catalytic subunits, localized assembly and secretion, and finally localized attachment to elements of the extracellular matrix insures that the enzyme is targeted to the correct location.
The neuromuscular junction (NMJ) represents the most well studied synapse and is widely regarded as structurally and functionally less complicated than neuronal synapses in the brain. Recent studies, however, have identified the localization and function of new signaling molecules at the NMJ. Surprisingly, many synaptic proteins previously identified in the brain are indeed also concentrated on the postsynaptic muscle side of the NMJ. These include the serine/threonine kinase Cdk5, the neurotrophin receptor TrkB, Eph receptors and ephrins, NMDA receptors and nitric oxide synthase, various PDZ-domain scaffold proteins, and beta-amyloid precursor protein. These observations indicate that the molecular composition of NMJ is much more intricate than we originally thought. The potential significance of these new signaling molecules at the NMJ will be discussed.
The selective transcription of acetylcholine receptor (AChR) subunit genes in synaptic myonuclei leads to the accumulation of AChR subunit mRNAs at the neuromuscular junction (NMJ). This mechanism contributes to the concentration of AChRs at the postsynaptic sarcolemma, and its physiological significance is underscored by the cases of human congenital myasthenias caused by mutation in a cis-regulatory element of the AChRepsilon-subunit promoter, which is necessary for its synaptic expression. The signal(s) that drives synapse-specific expression is unknown but neuregulin-1 (Nrg-1), a group of growth-factor-like polypeptides encoded by the nrg-1 gene, has been a favorite candidate. Nrg-1 was originally thought as a nerve-derived factor, acting in parallel to pathways controlling AChR clustering at the synapse ( i.e. agrin signaling). However, recent work suggests that Nrg-1 may actually be a muscle-derived signal that is concentrated at the NMJ, together with its receptors, by agrin and that acts as a secondary, downstream signal to enhance synapse-specific AChR transcription. Here, I review studies for and against Nrg-1 as a secondary signal driving synapse-specific expression at the NMJ. In addition, I briefly present new evidence that raise the possibility that Nrgs encoded by the ngr-1 -related gene nrg-2 might have a role controlling AChR expression.
In vertebrate neuromuscular junctions (nmjs), adenosine 5'-triphosphate (ATP) is stored at the motor nerve terminals and is co-released with acetylcholine during neural stimulation. Several lines of evidence suggest that the synaptic ATP can act as a synapse-organizing factor at the nmjs, mediated by metabotropic P2Y(1) receptors. P2Y(1) receptor mRNAs in chicken and rat muscles are low in embryo but increases markedly in the adult, and decreased after denervation. The P2Y(1) receptor protein is restricted to the nmjs and co-localized with AChRs in adult muscles. The activation of P2Y(1) receptor by adenine nucleotides in cultured chick myotubes stimulated the accumulation of inositol phosphates, intracellular Ca(2+) mobilization, protein kinase C activity and phosphorylation of extracellular signal-regulated kinases. The receptor activation led to an increase in the expression of transcripts encoding AChE catalytic subunit and AChR subunits. The ATP-induced post-synaptic gene expression is possibly mediated by the activation of signaling cascades of mitogen-activated protein kinase. Therefore, a model is being proposed here that the synaptic ATP has a role of synergy with other regulatory signals, such as neuregulin, which act via their post-synaptic receptors to activate second signaling molecules locally to enhance the transcription of AChR/AChE genes specifically in the adjacent sub-synaptic nuclei during the formation and, especially, the maintenance of post-synaptic specializations at the nmjs.
Following exocytosis, one of the major presynaptic events is replenishing synaptic vesicles (SVs) to ensure the possibility of continuous synaptic transmission. The nerve terminal is thought to recycle SVs through clathrin-mediated endocytosis and by a clathrin-independent pathway called &quot;kiss and run&quot;. This review highlights the use of the genetic model organism, the fruit fly (Drosophila melanogaster), in dissecting the molecular mechanisms of clathrin-mediated endocytosis in recycling SVs at neuromuscular junctions (NMJs). Analyses of endocytotic mutants in Drosophila indicate that clathrin-mediated endocytosis may be essential for SV recycling, including a putative fast recycling mechanism uncovered recently. Further, a rather complex picture begins to emerge suggesting that clathrin-mediated endocytosis involves several sequential steps mediated by a large number of proteins. Finally, these studies also reveal that SV proteins may be selectively retrieved into nascent SVs by clathrin accessory proteins and defects in protein retrieval have significant impacts on synaptic transmission. Following the completion of the Drosophila Genome Project and the development of gene targeting and RNAi approaches, genetic studies in Drosophila have become increasingly efficient. Hence, Drosophila is expected to continue to serve as an important model organism for studies of SV recycling.


Many studies point to an involvement of deficits in the serotonergic nervous system and hyperactivity of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis function with depression. Indeed early life stress, involving HPA axis activation, may predispose susceptible individuals to develop depression in later life. This study investigates the effects of elevating the neuroendocrine stress hormone, corticosterone, for 1 week in adolescent rats on markers of serotonergic neurone function at adulthood. Slow release corticosterone pellets were implanted for 7 days and various serotonergic parameters, as well as plasma corticosterone levels, were measured on day 7 or on day 28 (21 days following removal of the pellet). The corticosterone implant attenuated weight gain and reduced adrenal weights compared to that in control rats implanted with a cholesterol pellet. After 7 days, with the implant still in place, the diurnal variation in plasma corticosterone was reduced so that the level was approximately at that of the evening peak throughout the day. Twenty-one days after removal of the implant, the diurnal variation in plasma corticosterone returned. Corticosterone treatment decreased [3H] 8-hydroxy-2-(di-n-propylamino)tetralin binding to the 5-hydroxytryptamine1A receptor in the cortex but not in the hippocampus. Corticosterone treatment also enhanced the circadian rhythm observed in 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid level and the ratio of 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid to the 5-hydroxytryptamine in the frontal cortex. Despite corticosterone pellet removal 21 days earlier, there was a persistent decrease in whole body and adrenal weight, cortical 5-hydroxytryptamine1A receptor binding and an alteration in the diurnal variation in the 5-hydroxytryptamine &quot;turnover&quot; in the frontal cortex.
The molecular mechanisms for the interferon beta (IFNbeta) treatment of multiple sclerosis (MS) remain to be characterized. Using cDNA microarray technology, we have compared the gene expression profile of T and non-T cells derived from relapsing-remitting MS before and after treatment with IFNbeta-1b. IFNbeta treatment significantly altered expression of 21 genes out of 1263 at 3 and 6 months after treatment. These genes included nine with IFN-responsive promoter elements. Whereas there was no change in Th1 or Th2 marker genes, some of the changes were unexpected but coincided with the beneficial effect of IFNbeta in MS.
In humans, interleukin-12 (IL-12) and interferon-alpha (IFN-alpha) normally favor IFN-gamma-producing &quot;Th1&quot; T cell responses. Myasthenia gravis (MG) patients with thymomas frequently have high-titer neutralizing autoantibodies against these cytokines, but not against IFN-gamma. Because they occasionally develop intractable (even fatal) infections, we have tested effects of their sera on the generation of IFN-gamma responses by healthy adult T cells to autologous lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-treated dendritic cells (DC). Anti-IL-12(+) sera consistently reduced IFN-gamma responses substantially, whether assessed by intracellular staining or ELISA. Therefore, thymoma patients with intractable infections might benefit from cautious IFN-gamma therapy. We discuss wider implications of the surprising rarity of clear clinical hazards-or benefits-of these autoantibodies.
The identity of target antigen(s) in multiple sclerosis (MS) remains elusive despite much effort to identify it. We analyzed cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) from patients with MS, other neurological diseases (OND), other diseases (OD) and healthy controls for antibodies against purified sulfatide, a major glycosphingolipid of human myelin, by an enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) and a thin-layer chromatogram (TLC)-immunostaining technique. Elevated anti-sulfatide antibodies were significantly higher in MS patients as compared with the OND group (p&lt;0.05) and all controls combined (P&lt;0.025). Binding of high titer antibodies to sulfatide was confirmed with TLC-immunostaining. Anti-sulfatide antibodies were detected in all subtypes of MS although the frequency was higher in patients with secondary progressive MS (SPMS) than in patients with primary progressive (PPMS) and relapsing-remitting MS (RRMS). The data demonstrate a humoral response to sulfatide in the CSF of patients with MS.
Limited intrinsic myelin repair occurs in multiple sclerosis (MS), mediated by oligodendrocyte progenitors that divide and migrate into demyelinated lesions. Experimental remyelination suggests that this repair restores function and may protect axons from subsequent degeneration. Immunomodulatory drugs such as corticosteroids, interferon-beta and azathioprine are widely used in MS. However, their influence on disease progression is modest, for reasons that are not fully explained. The direct effects of these drugs on remyelination biology remain relatively unexplored. We have investigated the effect of these MS therapies on oligodendrocyte progenitors to identify whether drug treatment might directly compromise repair, either therapeutic or spontaneous. None of these drugs affected CG-4 survival, migration or proliferation.



This fourth and final review in the JNNP internet series summarises the essential internet resources for adult and paediatric clinical neurology, neuroradiology, and neurophysiology. This article is freely available on the JNNP website (www.jnnp.com), where-within seconds-the complete list of recommended websites can be easily downloaded and incorporated into your web browser as a Bookmark/Favorite file. The further progress of clinical neurology on the world wide web will be monitored in JNNP Neuronline fillers and JNNP Neurology in Practice supplements.



Visual object recognition is computationally difficult because changes in an object's position, distance, pose, or setting may cause it to produce a different retinal image on each encounter. To robustly recognize objects, the primate brain must have mechanisms to compensate for these variations. Although these mechanisms are poorly understood, it is thought that they elaborate neuronal representations in the inferotemporal cortex that are sensitive to object form but substantially invariant to other image variations. This study examines this hypothesis for image variation resulting from changes in object position. We studied the effect of small differences (+/-1.5 degrees ) in the retinal position of small (0.6 degrees wide) visual forms on both the behavior of monkeys trained to identify those forms and the responses of 146 anterior IT (AIT) neurons collected during that behavior. Behavioral accuracy and speed were largely unaffected by these small changes in position. Consistent with previous studies, many AIT responses were highly selective for the forms. However, AIT responses showed far greater sensitivity to retinal position than predicted from their reported receptive field (RF) sizes. The median AIT neuron showed a approximately 60% response decrease between positions within +/-1.5 degrees of the center of gaze, and 52% of neurons were unresponsive to one or more of these positions. Consistent with previous studies, each neuron's rank order of target preferences was largely unaffected across position changes. Although we have not yet determined the conditions necessary to observe this marked position sensitivity in AIT responses, we rule out effects of spatial-frequency content, eye movements, and failures to include the RF center. To reconcile this observation with previous studies, we hypothesize that either AIT position sensitivity strongly depends on object size or that position sensitivity is sharpened by extensive visual experience at fixed retinal positions or by the presence of flanking distractors.
Using spinal cord slice preparations and patch-clamp recordings in lamina II and lamina V regions, we tested a hypothesis that P2X receptor subtypes differentially modulate glutamate release from primary afferent terminals innervating different sensory regions. We found that activation of P2X receptors by alpha,beta-methylene-ATP increased glutamate release onto &gt;80% of DH neurons in both lamina regions. However, two distinct types of modulation, a transient and a long-lasting enhancement of glutamate release were observed. In lamina II recordings, &gt;70% of the modulation was transient. In contrast, P2X receptor-mediated modulation was always long-lasting in lamina V. Pharmacologically, both transient and long-lasting types of modulation were blocked by 10 microM pyridxal-phosphate-6-azophenyl-2',4'-disulphonic acid tetrasodium, a broad-spectrum P2X receptor antagonist. Transient modulation was not observed in the presence of 1 microM trinitrophenyl-ATP (TNP-ATP), a subtype-selective P2X receptor antagonist, suggesting that homomeric P2X3 receptors may be involved in the transient modulation in lamina II. The long-lasting modulation remained in the presence of 1 microM TNP-ATP. Selective removal of P2X3-expressing afferent terminals by the targeting toxin saporin-conjugated isolectin B4 or surgical removal of superficial DH did not affect P2X receptor-mediated long-lasting modulation in lamina V. Taken together, these results suggest that P2X receptor subtypes play distinct roles in sensory processing in functionally different sensory regions.
We examine the responses of single neurons and pairs of neurons, simultaneously recorded with a single tetrode in the primary visual cortex of the anesthetized macaque monkey, to transient presentations of stationary gratings of varying spatial phase. Such simultaneously recorded neurons tended to have similar tuning to the phase of the grating. To determine the response features that reliably discriminate these stimuli, we use the metric-space approach extended to pairs of neurons. We find that paying attention to the times of individual spikes, at a resolution of approximately 30 ms, and keeping track of which neuron fires which spike rather than just the summed local activity contribute substantially to phase coding. The contribution is both quantitative (increasing the fidelity of phase coding) and qualitative (enabling a 2-dimensional &quot;response space&quot; that corresponds to the spatial phase cycle). We use a novel approach, the extraction of &quot;temporal profiles&quot; from the metric space analysis, to interpret and compare temporal coding across neurons. Temporal profiles were remarkably consistent across a large subset of neurons. This consistency indicates that simple mechanisms (e.g., comparing the size of the transient and sustained components of the response) allow the temporal contribution to phase coding to be decoded.
The parabigeminal nucleus (PBN) is a small satellite of the superior colliculus located on the edge of the midbrain. To identify activity related to visuomotor behavior, we recorded from PBN cells in cats trained to fixate moving and stationary targets. Cats tracked moving targets primarily with small catch-up saccades, and for target speeds of 2-6 degrees /s, they did so with sufficient accuracy to keep targets within 2.5 degrees of the visual axis most of the time. During intersaccade intervals of such close-order tracking, PBN cells fired at rates related to retinal position error (RPE), the distance between the center of the retina and the saccade target. Each cell was characterized by a best direction of RPE. Most commonly, activity rose rapidly with increasing RPE, peaked at a small RPE within the area centralis, and dropped off gradually with increasing target distance. For some cells, the range over which activity was monotonically related to RPE was considerably larger, but because the PBN was not systematically sampled, the maximum range of RPE encoded is presently unknown. During saccades, activity began to change at about peak saccade velocity and then rapidly reached a level appropriate to the RPE achieved at saccade end. Most response fields were large, and stationary saccade targets presented anywhere within them evoked brisk responses that terminated abruptly on saccade offset. Spontaneous saccades in the dark had little effect on PBN activity. These data suggest that the PBN is an integral part of a midbrain circuit generating target location information.
Complex movements are generally thought to consist of a series of simpler elements. If this is so, how does the sensorimotor system assemble the pieces? This study recorded and evaluated sequences of arm movements to various targets placed in three-dimensional (3D) space. Subjects performed sequences consisting of single, double, or triple segments with the same first target but with different second targets. The data analysis focused on the first movement segment and evaluated hand path curvature, the hand's final approach to the first target, and the whole arm postures at the beginning and end. Although some idiosyncratic differences in approach were observed, only the final arm posture depended, in a consistent way, on which particular movement was to follow as the second segment. This provided evidence for &quot;coarticulation&quot; of the two segments, only at the level of arm posture, and simulations revealed that this anticipatory modification improved the energetic efficiency of the second segment. Data from movements through five consecutive triple segments (i.e., 5 triangles) were assessed to determine whether kinematic constraints, such as Donders' law, apply to repetitive drawing movements. Although such constraints could prevent the accumulation of changes in arm posture, this was not observed. Instead, in most cases, the elbow was a little bit higher at the end of each triangle than at the beginning. Taken together, the results suggest that coarticulation may facilitate the joining of two segments and the efficiency of the second movement, but does not extend over the drawing of several segments.
A fundamental question in vertebrate locomotion is whether distinct spinal networks exist that are capable of generating rhythmic output for each group of muscle synergists. In many vertebrates including the lamprey, it has been claimed that burst activity depends on reciprocal inhibition between antagonists. This question was addressed in the isolated lamprey spinal cord in which the left and right sides of each myotome display rhythmic alternating activity. We sectioned the spinal cord along the midline and tested whether rhythmic motor activity could be induced in the hemicord with bath-applied D-glutamate or N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) as in the intact spinal cord or by brief trains of electrical stimuli. Fast rhythmic bursting (2-12 Hz), coordinated across ventral roots, was observed with all three methods. Furthermore, to diminish gradually the crossed glycinergic inhibition, a progressive surgical lesioning of axons crossing the midline was implemented. This resulted in a gradual increase in burst frequency, linking firmly the fast hemicord rhythm [6.6 +/- 1.7 (SD) Hz] to fictive swimming in the intact cord (2.4 +/- 0.7 Hz). Ipsilateral glycinergic inhibition was not required for the hemicord burst pattern generation, suggesting that an interaction between excitatory glutamatergic neurons suffices to produce the unilateral burst pattern. In NMDA, burst activity at a much lower rate (0.1-0.4 Hz) was also encountered, which required the voltage-dependent properties of NMDA receptors in contrast to the fast rhythm. Swimming is thus produced by pairs of unilateral burst generating networks with reciprocal inhibitory connections that not only ensure left/right alternation but also downregulate frequency.
Compensatory mechanisms after genetic manipulations have been documented extensively for the nervous system. In many cases, these mechanisms involve genetic regulation at the transcription or expression level of existing isoforms. We report a novel mechanism by which single neurons compensate for changes in network connectivity by retuning their intrinsic electrical properties. We demonstrate this mechanism in the inferior olive, in which widespread electrical coupling is mediated by abundant gap junctions formed by connexin 36 (Cx36). It has been shown in various mammals that this electrical coupling supports the generation of subthreshold oscillations, but recent work revealed that rhythmic activity is sustained in knock-outs of Cx36. Thus, these results raise the question of whether the olivary oscillations in Cx36 knock-outs simply reflect the status of wild-type neurons without gap junctions or the outcome of compensatory mechanisms. Here, we demonstrate that the absence of Cx36 results in thicker dendrites with gap-junction-like structures with an abnormally wide interneuronal gap that prevents electrotonic coupling. The mutant olivary neurons show unusual voltage-dependent oscillations and an increased excitability that is attributable to a combined decrease in leak conductance and an increase in voltage-dependent calcium conductance. Using dynamic-clamp techniques, we demonstrated that these changes are sufficient to transform a wild-type neuron into a knock-out-like neuron. We conclude that the absence of Cx36 in the inferior olive is not compensated by the formation of other gap-junction channels but instead by changes in the cytological and electroresponsive properties of its neurons, such that the capability to produce rhythmic activity is maintained.
We studied the functional organization of human posterior parietal and frontal cortex using functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) to map preparatory signals for attending, looking, and pointing to a peripheral visual location. The human frontal eye field and two separate regions in the intraparietal sulcus were similarly recruited in all conditions, suggesting an attentional role that generalizes across response effectors. However, the preparation of a pointing movement selectively activated a different group of regions, suggesting a stronger role in motor planning. These regions were lateralized to the left hemisphere, activated by preparation of movements of either hand, and included the inferior and superior parietal lobule, precuneus, and posterior superior temporal sulcus, plus the dorsal premotor and anterior cingulate cortex anteriorly. Surface-based registration of macaque cortical areas onto the map of fMRI responses suggests a relatively good spatial correspondence between human and macaque parietal areas. In contrast, large interspecies differences were noted in the topography of frontal areas.
Space-specific neurons in the barn owl's inferior colliculus have spatial receptive fields (RFs) because of sensitivity to interaural time difference and frequency-specific interaural level difference (ILD). These neurons are assumed to be tuned to the frequency-specific ILDs occurring at their spatial RFs, but attempts to assess this tuning with traditional narrowband stimuli have had limited success. Indeed, tuning assessed in this manner, when processed via a linear model of spectral integration, typically explains only approximately half the variance in spatial response patterns. Here we report our findings that frequency-specific ILD tuning of space-specific neurons, when assessed from responses to broadband stimuli, predicted nearly 75% of the variance in spatial responses, using a linear model of spectral integration (p &lt; 0.0001; n = 97 neurons). Furthermore, when we tested neurons using only those frequencies we found to be spatially relevant, we saw that their responses were similar to those elicited by broadband stimuli. When we used frequencies not identified as spatially relevant, such similarity was lacking. Furthermore, spectral components that elicited high firing rates when presented as narrowband stimuli were found in several cases to be irrelevant for or detrimental to the definition of spatial RFs. Thus, neurons achieved sharp spatial tuning by selecting for ILDs of a subset of spectral components in noise, some of which were not identified using narrowband stimuli.
Previous physiological investigations have suggested the existence of a neural circuit that coordinates activation of motor and autonomic efferents before or at the onset of exercise. Traditionally these circuits have been postulated to involve forebrain areas. However, overlapping populations of medullary reticular formation neurons that participate in motor or autonomic control have been described previously, suggesting that individual pontomedullary reticular formation neurons may coordinate both motor and autonomic responses. We tested this hypothesis by conducting transneuronal retrograde tracing of motor and sympathetic nervous system pathways in rats using recombinant strains of pseudorabies virus (PRV). A PRV strain expressing the green fluorescent protein (PRV-152) was injected into the left gastrocnemius muscle, which was surgically sympathectomized, whereas another recombinant (PRV-BaBlu) was injected into the left adrenal gland. Immunofluorescence methods using monospecific antisera and distinct fluorophores identified neurons infected with one or both of the recombinants. Brainstem neurons coinfected with both PRV recombinants, which presumably had collateralized projections to both adrenal sympathetic preganglionic neurons and gastrocnemius motoneurons, were observed in several areas of the pontomedullary reticular formation. The largest number of such neurons was located in the rostral ventromedial medulla within the ventral gigantocellular nucleus, gigantocellular nucleus pars alpha, raphe obscurus, and raphe magnus. These neurons are candidates for relaying central command signals to the spinal cord.
The highly specific connection patterns of the mature CNS are shaped through finely regulated processes of axon growth and retraction. To investigate the relative contribution of cell-autonomous mechanisms and extrinsic cues in these events, we examined the development of Purkinje axon intracortical plexus in the rat cerebellum. During the first postnatal week, several new processes sprout from focal swellings along the initial portion of the Purkinje neurite and spread in the granular layer. Intense structural plasticity occurs during the following week, with pruning of collateral branches and remodeling of terminal arbors. The mature distribution of the Purkinje infraganglionic plexus, confined within the most superficial portion of the granular layer, is attained at approximately postnatal day 15. A similar neuritic branching pattern is also developed by Purkinje cells grown in cultures of dissociated cerebellar cells or transplanted to extracerebellar CNS regions, suggesting that cell-autonomous mechanisms contribute to determining the Purkinje axon phenotype. The structural remodeling of Purkinje intracortical plexus is concomitant with the development of cerebellar myelin. To ask whether myelin-associated factors contribute to the morphological maturation of Purkinje neurites, we prevented normal myelinogenesis by killing oligodendrocyte precursors with 5'-azacytidine or by applying neutralizing antibodies against the myelin-associated neurite growth inhibitor Nogo-A. In both conditions, Purkinje axons retained exuberant branches, and the terminal plexus spanned the entire extent of the granular layer. Thus, the formation of Purkinje axon collaterals is, in part, controlled by intrinsic determinants, but their growth and distribution are regulated by environmental signals, among which are myelin-derived cues.
The chemokine receptor CXCR4 is expressed in the embryonic and mature CNS, yet its normal physiological function in neurons remains obscure. Here, we show that its cognate chemokine, stromal cell-derived factor-1 (SDF-1), promotes the survival of cultured embryonic retinal ganglion cell neurons even in the absence of other neurotrophic factors. This survival effect is mediated primarily through a cAMP-dependent pathway that acts through protein kinase A and MAP kinase. Addition of SDF-1 to a human neuronal cell line induces phosphorylation of p44/p42 MAP kinase and GSK3beta. Mouse embryos lacking the CXCR4 receptor have a reduced number of retinal ganglion cells. The ligand of CXCR4, SDF-1, may therefore provide generalized trophic support to neurons during their development and maturation.
Hair cells of the inner ear contain high concentrations of calcium-binding proteins that limit calcium signals and prevent cross talk between different signaling pathways during auditory transduction. Using light microscope immunofluorescence and post-embedding immunogold labeling in the electron microscope, we characterized the distribution of three calcium-buffering proteins in the turtle cochlea. Both calbindin-D28k and parvalbumin-beta were confined to hair cells in which they showed a similar distribution, whereas calretinin was present mainly in hair-cell nuclei but also occurred in supporting cells and nerve fibers. The hair-cell concentration of calbindin-D28k but not of parvalbumin-beta increased from the low- to high-frequency end of the cochlea. Calibration against standards containing known amounts of calcium-buffering protein processed in the same fluid drop as the cochlear sections gave cytoplasmic concentrations of calbindin-D28k as 0.13-0.63 mm and parvalbumin-beta as approximately 0.25 mm, but calretinin was an order of magnitude less. Total amount of Ca 2+-binding sites on the proteins is at least 1.0 mm in low-frequency hair cells and 3.0 mm in high-frequency cells. Reverse transcription-PCR showed that mRNA for all three proteins was expressed in turtle hair cells. We suggest that calbindin-D28k and parvalbumin-beta may serve as endogenous mobile calcium buffers, but the predominantly nuclear location of calretinin argues for another role in calcium signaling. The results support conclusions from electrophysiological measurements that millimolar concentrations of endogenous calcium buffers are present in turtle hair cells. Parvalbumin-beta was also found in both inner and outer hair cells of the guinea pig cochlea.
Members of the synapse-associated protein-97 (SAP97) family of scaffold proteins have been implicated as central organizers of synaptic junctions to build macromolecular signaling complexes around specific postsynaptic neurotransmitter receptors. In this regard, SAP97 has been suggested to regulate the synaptic localization of glutamate receptor type 1 subunits of the AMPA-type glutamate receptors. To test this hypothesis directly, we assessed the effects of SAP97 overexpression on surface expression of synaptic AMPA receptors. We find that recombinant SAP97 not only becomes concentrated at synaptic junctions but also leads to an increase in synaptic AMPA receptors, spine enlargement, and an increase in miniature EPSC (mEPSC) frequency, indicating that SAP97 has both postsynaptic and presynaptic effects on synaptic transmission. Synaptic targeting of SAP97, increased surface AMPA receptors, and increased mEPSC frequency are dependent on the presence of specific alternatively spliced sequences in SAP97 that encode a protein 4.1 binding site. These results suggest that SAP97 can affect the synaptic recruitment of AMPA receptors and spine morphology and that these effects may be regulated by alternative splicing.
One prominent manifestation of mechanical activity in hair cells is spontaneous otoacoustic emission, the unprovoked emanation of sound by an internal ear. Because active hair bundle motility probably constitutes the active process of nonmammalian hair cells, we investigated the ability of hair bundles in the bullfrog's sacculus to produce oscillations that might underlie spontaneous otoacoustic emissions. When maintained in the normal ionic milieu of the ear, many bundles oscillated spontaneously through distances as great as 80 nm at frequencies of 5-50 Hz. Whole-cell recording disclosed that the positive phase of movement was associated with the opening of transduction channels. Gentamicin, which blocks transduction channels, reversibly arrested oscillation; drugs that affect the cAMP phosphorylation pathway and might influence the activity of myosin altered the rate of oscillation. Increasing the Ca 2+ concentration rendered oscillations faster and smaller until they were suppressed; lowering the Ca 2+ concentration moderately with chelators had the opposite effect. When a bundle was offset with a stimulus fiber, oscillations were transiently suppressed but gradually resumed. Loading a bundle by partial displacement clamping, which simulated the presence of the accessory structures to which a bundle is ordinarily attached, increased the frequency and diminished the magnitude of oscillation. These observations accord with a model in which oscillations arise from the interplay of the hair bundle's negative stiffness with the activity of adaptation motors and with Ca 2+-dependent relaxation of gating springs.
Several lines of evidence indicate that alterations in axonal transport play a critical role in Alzheimer's disease (AD) neuropathology, but the molecular mechanisms that control this process are not understood fully. Recent work indicates that presenilin 1 (PS1) interacts with glycogen synthase kinase 3beta (GSK3beta). In vivo, GSK3beta phosphorylates kinesin light chains (KLC) and causes the release of kinesin-I from membrane-bound organelles (MBOs), leading to a reduction in kinesin-I driven motility (Morfini et al., 2002b). To characterize a potential role for PS1 in the regulation of kinesin-based axonal transport, we used PS1-/- and PS1 knock-inM146V (KIM146V) mice and cultured cells. We show that relative levels of GSK3beta activity were increased in cells either in the presence of mutant PS1 or in the absence of PS1 (PS1-/-). Concomitant with increased GSK3beta activity, relative levels of KLC phosphorylation were increased, and the amount of kinesin-I bound to MBOs was reduced. Consistent with a deficit in kinesin-I-mediated fast axonal transport, densities of synaptophysin- and syntaxin-I-containing vesicles and mitochondria were reduced in neuritic processes of KIM146V hippocampal neurons. Similarly, we found reduced levels of PS1, amyloid precursor protein, and synaptophysin in sciatic nerves of KIM146V mice. Thus PS1 appears to modulate GSK3beta activity and the release of kinesin-I from MBOs at sites of vesicle delivery and membrane insertion. These findings suggest that mutations in PS1 may compromise neuronal function by affecting GSK-3 activity and kinesin-I-based motility.
Estrogen transiently disinhibits hippocampal CA1 pyramidal cells in adult female rats and prolongs the decay time of IPSCs in these cells. Estrogen-induced changes in synaptic inhibition are likely to be causally related to subsequent enhancements in excitatory synaptic function in CA1 pyramidal cells. Currently, it is unknown how or on what cells estrogen acts to regulate synaptic inhibition in the hippocampus. We used whole-cell voltage-clamp recording of synaptically evoked IPSCs, spontaneous IPSCs, and miniature IPSCs in CA1 pyramidal cells to evaluate estrogen-induced changes in synaptic inhibition in ovariectomized rats that either were pretreated with the estrogen receptor (ER) antagonist tamoxifen or in which basal forebrain cholinergic neurons were eliminated by previous infusion of 192IgG-saporin toxin into the medial septum. We found that estrogen-induced disinhibition and prolongation of IPSCs are entirely dependent on a tamoxifen-sensitive ER. Estrogen-induced disinhibition is partially dependent on basal forebrain cholinergic neurons, but the prolongation of IPSCs is not at all dependent on these cells. Paired-pulse experiments and recordings of action potential-related spontaneous IPSCs suggest that estrogen-induced disinhibition is associated with a decrease in probability of release at GABAergic synapses, which decreases the amplitude of IPSCs produced by inhibitory neuron action potentials. Our findings lend novel insights into estrogen regulation of inhibitory synapses in the hippocampus and point to estrogen action on basal forebrain cholinergic neurons as critically involved in mediating the effects of estrogen in the hippocampus.
At the vertebrate neuromuscular junction ATP is known to stabilize acetylcholine in the synaptic vesicles and to be co-released with it. We have shown previously that a nucleotide receptor, the P2Y1 receptor, is localized at the junction, and we propose that this mediates a trophic role for synaptic ATP there. Evidence in support of this and on its mechanism is given here. With the use of chick or mouse myotubes expressing promoter-reporter constructs from genes of acetylcholinesterase (AChE) or of the acetylcholine receptor subunits, P2Y1 receptor agonists were shown to stimulate the transcription of each of those genes. The pathway to activation of the AChE gene was shown to involve protein kinase C and intracellular Ca 2+ release. Application of dominant-negative or constitutively active mutants, or inhibitors of specific kinases, showed that it further proceeds via some of the known intermediates of extracellular signal-regulated kinase phosphorylation. In both chick and mouse myotubes this culminates in activation of the transcription factor Elk-1, confirmed by gel mobility shift assays and by the nuclear accumulation of phosphorylated Elk-1. All of the aforementioned activations by agonist were amplified when the content of P2Y1 receptors was boosted by transfection, and the activations were blocked by a P2Y1-selective antagonist. Two Elk-1 binding site sequences present in the AChE gene promoter were jointly sufficient to drive ATP-induced reporter gene transcription. Thus ATP regulates postsynaptic gene expression via a pathway to a selective transcription factor activation.
Microglia-brain macrophages are immune-competent cells of the CNS and respond to pathologic events. Using bacterial lipopolysaccharide (LPS) as a tool to activate cultured mouse microglia, we studied alterations in the intracellular calcium concentration ([Ca 2+]i) and in the receptor-evoked generation of transient calcium signals. LPS treatment led to a chronic elevation of basal [Ca 2+]i along with a suppression of evoked calcium signaling, as indicated by reduced [Ca 2+]i transients during stimulation with UTP and complement factor 5a. Presence of the calcium chelator BAPTA prevented the activation-associated changes in [Ca 2+]i and restored much of the signaling efficacy. We also evaluated downstream consequences of a basal [Ca 2+]i lifting during microglial activation and found BAPTA to strongly attenuate the LPS-induced release of nitric oxide (NO) and certain cytokines and chemokines. Furthermore, microglial treatment with ionomycin, an ionophore elevating basal [Ca 2+]i, mimicked the activation-induced calcium signal suppression but failed to induce release activity on its own. Our findings suggest that chronic elevation of basal [Ca 2+]i attenuates receptor-triggered calcium signaling. Moreover, increased [Ca 2+]i is required, but by itself is not sufficient, for release of NO and certain cytokines and chemokines. Elevation of basal [Ca 2+]i could thus prove a central element in the regulation of executive functions in activated microglia.
Traditionally, surgical correction of craniosynostosis involves calvarial remodeling, large blood losses necessitating transfusions, hospital stays of several days, and less-than-satisfactory results. In this study, outcomes from a minimally invasive technique called endoscopic strip craniectomy, along with a postoperative molding helmet, to correct craniosynostosis in young infants were evaluated. The endoscopic strip craniectomy was performed on 185 patients with clinical signs of craniosynostosis, with the following distribution: 107 sagittal, 42 coronal, 37 metopic, and 7 lambdoid, for a total of 198 sutures. The mean blood loss was 29.4 cc, and only two patients underwent intraoperative blood transfusion. Fourteen patients underwent postoperative blood transfusion; none was life-threatening. There were no deaths, complications, neurological injuries, or infections. All but six patients were discharged on the first postoperative day. A majority of the patients achieved or approached normocephaly, and there were no complications. Neuroscience nurses need to be aware of this technique when they discuss treatment options with the families of infants with craniosynostosis.
The suprachiasmatic nuclei (SCN) of the hypothalamus contain the master circadian clock in mammals. Nocturnal light pulses that reset the circadian clock also lead to rapid increases in levels of Per1 and Per2 mRNA in the SCN, suggesting that these genes are involved in the synchronization to light. During the day, when light has no phase-shifting effects in nocturnal rodents, the consequences of light exposure for Per expression have been less thoroughly studied. Therefore, the effects of light exposure during the day were assessed on Per1 and Per2 mRNA in the SCN of mice. Expression of Per1 and Per2 was generally increased by 30-min light pulses during the subjective day, with more pronounced effects in the morning. One exception was noted for a transient decrease in Per2 expression after a short light pulse applied at midday. Prolonged light exposure (up to 3 hr) starting at midday markedly increased Per2 expression but not that of Per1. Moreover, the amplitude of the daily variations of both Per and the duration of Per1 peak was increased in mice exposed to a light-dark cycle compared with those transferred to constant darkness. Finally, the amplitude of the daily variations of both Per and the basal level of Per1 were increased in mice under a light-dark cycle compared with animals synchronized to a skeleton photoperiod (i.e., with daily dawn and dusk 1-hr exposures to light). Taken together, the results indicate that prolonged light exposure during daytime positively modulates daily levels of Per1 and Per2 mRNA in the SCN of mice.
Glucagon-like peptide-1(7-36)-amide (GLP-1) is an endogenous insulinotropic peptide that is secreted from the gastrointestinal tract in response to food. It enhances pancreatic islet beta-cell proliferation and glucose-dependent insulin secretion and lowers blood glucose and food intake in patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus. GLP-1 receptors, which are coupled to the cyclic AMP second messenger pathway, are expressed throughout the brains of rodents and humans. It was recently reported that GLP-1 and exendin-4, a naturally occurring, more stable analogue of GLP-1 that binds at the GLP-1 receptor, possess neurotrophic properties and can protect neurons against glutamate-induced apoptosis. We report here that GLP-1 can reduce the levels of amyloid-beta peptide (Abeta) in the brain in vivo and can reduce levels of amyloid precursor protein (APP) in cultured neuronal cells. Moreover, GLP-1 and exendin-4 protect cultured hippocampal neurons against death induced by Abeta and iron, an oxidative insult. Collectively, these data suggest that GLP-1 can modify APP processing and protect against oxidative injury, two actions that suggest a novel therapeutic target for intervention in Alzheimer's disease.
A case of T12-L2 intraspinal extradural meningeal mesenchymal chondrosarcoma is described in a patient presenting with a clinical history of low-back pain and weakness of the lower limbs. Magnetic resonance T1-weighted Gadolinium enhanced imaging, showed an intraspinal extradural mass, extending from T12 to L2, located anterolaterally into the spinal canal and pushing posteriorly the conus medullaris. The mass was completely removed and postoperative histological diagnosis was of mesenchymal chondrosarcoma. The patient was completely symptoms-free after surgery. Intraspinal meningeal mesenchymal chondrosarcoma and treatment options are reviewed.
Progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy (PML) affects about 1 in 20 individuals with the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS) and has been associated with poor survival. This report describes the results of a phase II clinical trial using the drug topotecan, a semisynthetic analogue of camptothecan, administered to a cohort of subjects with AIDS-related PML. Data were evaluated on 11 of 12 subjects enrolled in the study. Three responded to therapy. Additionally, one patient was treated off-protocol and showed a response to treatment. Progression occurred after the first course; however, a partial response was noted after five courses. One study patient died from accidental overdose of topotecan. Overall, responders had higher pretreatment Karnofsky and lower Kurtzke expanded disability status scale scores than nonresponders. The most frequent toxicities were hematologic (anemia, neutropenia, and thrombocytopenia). Five patients had dose delays; all delays were due to hematologic adverse events. This study demonstrates that topotecan treatment may be associated with decreased lesion size and prolonged survival from the infection. Because of the small number of subjects in the study, further studies are required to evaluate the efficacy of topotecan in treating this disease.
Blockade of chemokine receptors (CKRs) has recently emerged as a possible pathway for therapeutic intervention in disease. In the present report, the expression of CCR2, CCR5, and CXCR3, associated with migration of mononuclear cells to inflamed tissue, was determined on CD4+ T cells in a 2-year longitudinal study of healthy volunteers using flow cytometry. Large interindividual variations in the expression of these receptors on CD4+ T cells were observed, whereas levels remained remarkably stable over time within subjects. The expression of CCR2, CCR5, and CXCR3 on CD4+ T cells was directly proportional to percentages of CD45RO(hi)/CD4+ T cells. In addition, highly significant associations between levels of CCR2, CCR5, and CXCR3 on CD4+ T cells were demonstrated in individual subjects, implying a common mechanism for regulating the expression of these CKRs on circulating T cells. These associations were not due to coexpression of CKRs on individual CD45RA-/CD4+ T cells. The results provide insight into the regulation of CKR expression on CD4+ T cells in vivo, and suggest that major fluctuations of CKR expression in individuals are uncommon.

Stressful events may trigger disease processes in many different organ systems, with the cardiovascular system being particularly vulnerable. Five-mo-old male rats had ad libitum (AL) access to food or were deprived of food every other day [intermittent food deprivation (IF)] for 6 mo, during which time their heart rate (HR), blood pressure (BP), physical activity and body temperature were measured by radiotelemetry under nonstress and stress (immobilization or cold-water swim) conditions. IF rats had significantly lower basal HR and BP, and significantly lower increases in HR and BP after exposures to the immobilization and swim stressors. Basal levels of adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH) and corticosterone were greater in the IF rats. However, in contrast to large stress-induced increases in ACTH, corticosterone and epinephrine levels in AL rats, increases in these hormones in response to repeated immobilization stress sessions were reduced or absent in IF rats. Nevertheless, the IF rats exhibited robust hypothalamic/pituitary and sympathetic neuroendocrine responses to a different stress (swim). The IF treatment improved glucose metabolism, as indicated by lower basal levels of circulating glucose and insulin, but with maintenance of glucose and insulin responses to stress. We concluded that improvements in cardiovascular risk factors and cardiovascular and neuroendocrine stress adaptation occur in response to IF.

The purpose of this study was to evaluate Widiger, Trull, Clarkin, Sanderson, and Costa's (1994) facet-level predictions about depressive personality disorder, thereby evaluating the validity of the depressive personality disorder construct. A sample of 67 patients was collected from two treatment facilities. Participants completed three different measures of depressive personality disorder and the NEO-PI-R (Costa &amp; McCrae, 1992). All measures of depressive personality disorder were significantly correlated with three of the four predicted facets: Anxiety, Depression, and Self-Consciousness. All three measures were significantly correlated with the Vulnerability, Warmth, Gregariousness, Assertiveness, Positive Emotions, Actions, Trusts, and Achievement Striving facets. A series of regression analyses was performed. Two of the predicted facets--Self-Consciousness and Tendermindedness--were able to uniquely account for variance in all three measures of depressive personality across most analyses. However, there was a lack of specificity across other facets in predicting the depressive personality disorder. A facet-level understanding of depressive personality disorder appears to be empirically justified, and the validity of the depressive personality disorder further supported. Additional work is needed on improving the measurement of depressive personality disorder.
Histamine H3 receptor (H3R) antagonists enhance neurotransmitter release and are being developed for the treatment of a variety of neurological and cognitive disorders. Many potent histamine H3R antagonists contain an imidazole moiety that limits receptor selectivity and the tolerability of this class of compounds. Here we present the in vitro pharmacological data for two novel piperazine amide ligands, A-304121 [4-(3-((2R)-2-aminopropanoyl-1-piperazinyl)propoxy)phenyl)cyclopropylmethanone] and A-317920 [N-((1R)-2-(4-(3-(4-(cyclopropylcarbonyl)phenoxy)propyl)-1-piperazinyl)-1-methyl-2-oxo-ethyl-)-2-furamide], and compare them with the imidazole H3R antagonists ciproxifan, clobenpropit, and thioperamide. Both A-304121 and A-317920 bind potently to recombinant full-length rat H3R(pKi values = 8.6 and 9.2, respectively) but have lower potencies for binding the full-length human H3R (pKi values = 6.1 and 7.0, respectively). A-304121 and A-317920 are potent antagonists at rat H3R in reversing R-alpha-methylhistamine [(R)-alpha-MeHA] inhibition of forskolin-stimulated cAMP formation (pKb values = 8.0 and 9.1) but weak antagonists at human H3Rs in cyclase (pKb values = 6.0 and 6.3) and calcium mobilization (pKb values = 6.0 and 7.3) assays in cells co-expressing Galphaqi5-protein. Both compounds potently antagonize native H3Rs by blocking histamine inhibition of potassium-evoked [3H]histamine release from rat brain cortical synaptosomes (pKb values = 8.6 and 9.3) and (R)-alpha-MeHA reversal of electric field-stimulated guinea pig ileum contractions (pA2 values = 7.1 and 8.3). A-304121 and A-317920 are also more efficacious inverse agonists in reversing basal guanosine 5'-O-(3-[35S]thio)triphosphate ([35S]GTP gamma S) binding at the human H3R (pEC50 values = 5.7 and 7.0) than are the imidazole antagonists. These novel and selective piperazine amides represent useful leads for the development of H3R antagonist therapeutic agents.
Pharmacological blockade of central histamine H3 receptors (H3Rs) enhances cognition in rodents and offers promise for the clinical treatment of neurological disorders. However, many previously characterized H3R antagonists are either not selective for H3Rs or have potentially significant tolerability issues. Here, we present in vivo behavioral and neurophysiological data for two novel and selective H3R antagonists with improved safety indices. Functional blockade of central H3Rs was first demonstrated for A-304121 [(4-(3-(4-((2R)-2-aminopropanoyl)-1-piperazinyl)propoxy)phenyl)cyclopropylmethanone] (1 mg/kg) and A-317920 [N-((1R)-2-(4-(3-(4-(cyclopropylcarbonyl)phenoxy)propyl)-1-piperazinyl)-1-methyl-2-oxo-ethyl)-2-furamide] (0.45 mg/kg) by significantly attenuating an acute dipsogenia response to the selective H3R agonist (R)-alpha-methylhistamine [(R)-alpha-MeHA]. Cognitive performance was improved in a five-trial rat pup avoidance test following administration of A-304121 (10 mg/kg) or A-317920 (3 mg/kg), with efficacy comparable with previously published observations for reference H3R antagonists thioperamide (10 mg/kg), ciproxifan (3 mg/kg), and GT-2331 [(1R,2R)-4-(2-(5,5-dimethylhex-1-ynyl)cyclopropyl)imidazole] (1 mg/kg). Social memory was also significantly enhanced in the adult rat with A-304121 (3, 10 mg/kg) and A-317920 (1, 3 mg/kg) at doses that produced no significant change in electroencephalogram slow-wave amplitude activity. Relative therapeutic indices (TIs) of 30 and 42 were estimated for A-304121 and A-317920, respectively, by comparing doses producing adverse effects in general observation studies with potency in inhibitory avoidance, which were superior to TIs of 8, 10, and 18 observed for the reference antagonists thioperamide, ciproxifan, and GT-2331, respectively. A-304121 and A-317920 represent a series of novel, H3R-selective piperazine amides that enhance cognition in vivo, which could offer advantages over existing H3R antagonists or cognition-enhancing agents.

Two family aggregation studies report the occurrence and co-occurrence of oral language impairments (LIs) and reading impairments (RIs). Study 1 examined the occurrence (rate) of LI and RI in children with specific language impairment (SLI probands), a matched control group, and all nuclear family members. Study 2 included a larger sample of SLI probands, as well as their nuclear and extended family members. Probands and their family members who met specific criteria were classified as language and/or reading impaired based on current testing. In Study 1, the rates of LI and RI for nuclear family members (excluding probands) were significantly higher than those for control family members. In the SLI families, affected family members were more likely to have both LI and RI than either impairment alone. In Study 2, 68% of the SLI probands also met the diagnostic classification for RI. The language and RI rates for the other family members, excluding probands, were 25% and 23% respectively, with a high degree of co-occurrence of LI and RI (46%) in affected individuals. Significant sex ratio differences were found across generations in the families of SLI probands. There were more male than female offspring in these families, and more males than females were found to have both LIs and RIs. Results demonstrate that when LIs occur within families of SLI probands, these impairments generally co-occur with RIs. Our data are also consistent with prior findings that males show impairments more often than females.
A new pedicle screw was designed to address the insertion limitations of the existing VSP and TIMX screws. In the standard VSP insertion technique, the T-handle wrench has an enlarged foot, which contacts the superior facet and interferes with countersinking the fixed nut. The hex of the machine screw may strip in hard bone. The hexagonal design of the fixed nut may make explantation difficult. The evolution of the VSP into the TIMX addresses some of these issues. However, the screw design still has problems. The tapered spacer extends beyond the diameter of the fixed nut and must be applied after the screw is inserted. The flattening of the machine thread requires rotational alignment of the screws before the plate can be inserted. The design does not allow for easy placement of the acorn nut. The modified VSP screw preserves the superior facet, allows for countersinking, permits application of the spacer prior to insertion, and facilitates application of the acorn nut. Rotational alignment of the screw is not required to accommodate the plate. The surgeon can save time and effort inserting and explanting the modified VSP screw.
Sexually dimorphic brain volumes (sexually dimorphic nucleus of the preoptic area (SDN-POA) and anteroventral periventricular (AVPV) nucleus) are influenced by estrogens. Phytoestrogens, derived from plants (especially soy products), are molecules structurally and functionally similar to estradiol. The purpose of this study was to examine: the consumption of phytoestrogen (using a phytoestrogen-rich (Phyto-600) versus a phytoestrogen-free (Phyto-free)) diets from conception to adulthood (or changing the diets during adulthood) and characterizing (a) circulating plasma phytoestrogen levels, (b) testosterone levels in males, (c) sexually dimorphic brain volumes (i.e. the SDN-POA and AVPV) and (d) the presence of apoptotic cells in these brain structures in Long-Evans rats. Phyto-600 fed animals displayed total serum phytoestrogens levels 37-fold higher compared to Phyto-free values. Circulating testosterone levels were not significantly altered by the diets. Female SDN-POA volumes were not altered by the diets. Whereas, males fed a Phyto-free diet displayed decreased SDN-POA volumes compared to male Phyto-600 values. Females fed the Phyto-600 diet displayed larger AVPV volumes compared to males on the same diet or females on the Phyto-free diet. Males fed the Phyto-free diet had the largest AVPV values compared to Phyto-600 fed males. When the SDN-POA region was examined in lifelong Phyto-free fed males, apoptotic cells were present versus males fed the Phyto-600 diet and in the AVPV region the opposite results were obtained. In summary, consumption of dietary phytoestrogens (estrogen mimics) can alter hormone-sensitive hypothalamic brain volumes in rodents during adulthood.


Although brain tissue from patients with human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) and/or AIDS is consistently infected by HIV type 1 (HIV-1), only 20 to 30% of patients exhibit clinical or neuropathological evidence of brain injury. Extensive HIV-1 sequence diversity is present in the brain, which may account in part for the variability in the occurrence of HIV-induced brain disease. Neurological injury caused by HIV-1 is mediated directly by neurotoxic viral proteins or indirectly through excess production of host molecules by infected or activated glial cells. To elucidate the relationship between HIV-1 infection and neuronal death, we examined the neurotoxic effects of supernatants from human 293T cells or macrophages expressing recombinant HIV-1 virions or gp120 proteins containing the V1V3 or C2V3 envelope region from non-clade B, brain-derived HIV-1 sequences. Neurotoxicity was measured separately as apoptosis or total neuronal death, with apoptosis representing 30 to 80% of the total neuron death observed, depending on the individual virus. In addition, neurotoxicity was dependent on expression of HIV-1 gp120 and could be blocked by anti-gp120 antibodies, as well as by antibodies to the human CCR5 and CXCR4 chemokine receptors. Despite extensive sequence diversity in the recombinant envelope region (V1V3 or C2V3), there was limited variation in the neurotoxicity induced by supernatants from transfected 293T cells. Conversely, supernatants from infected macrophages caused a broader range of neurotoxicity levels that depended on each virus and was independent of the replicative ability of the virus. These findings underscore the importance of HIV-1 envelope protein expression in neurotoxic pathways associated with HIV-induced brain disease and highlight the envelope as a target for neuroprotective therapeutic interventions.
Thrombolysis with intravenous alteplase for acute ischaemic stroke, which is already in clinical use in the USA and Canada, has recently been approved in the European Union. Until now, the use of alteplase has been limited to research or &quot;off label&quot; therapy in most of Europe. Despite the growing importance of this therapy and the many guidelines for use and comments on its effects, there is a lack of information about informed consent. The process of obtaining informed consent in the therapeutic decision process allows the patients to express their point of view on the risk-to-benefit ratio of thrombolytic therapy, on the different outcomes of stroke, and on the effect of thrombolysis. The discussion between the clinician and the patient or patient's family, during the process of obtaining consent to thrombolysis, can be problematic because therapy has to be given with extreme urgency. In this article, I highlight the importance of obtaining informed consent, help set out the process, and analyse the situations in which obtaining consent to thrombolysis may be legally and ethically avoided.


This is the first investigation performed to detect the presence of the p53 mutation in Malay patients with gliomas. The p53 gene was amplified using polymerase chain reaction (PCR) from 33 fresh-frozen tumour tissues from patients histologically confirmed as glioma. Four hot spot areas that lie between exon 5 to 8 were screened for mutation by mean of non-isotopic &quot;cold&quot; single strand conformation polymorphism (SSCP) analysis and direct sequencing. The frequency of p53 gene mutation in gliomas examined was 33% (11 of 33). Five (45.5%) cases had mutation in exon 7, four (36.4%) had mutation in exon 8 and two (18.1%) had mutation in exon 6. Seven (63.6%) of 11 mutations were single nucleotide point mutations of which 5 were missense mutations, 1 was nonsense mutation and 1 was, silent mutation. Three (27.3%) showed insertion mutation and 1 (9.1%) showed deletion mutation. Of the point mutations, 57.1% were transitions and 42.9% were transversions. These results suggested that p53 mutations frequently occur in gliomas and this gene does play an important role in the tumourigenesis process of Malay patients with brain tumours.
Archival reports demonstrate that black females are in the minority of reported breast cancer cases, yet are given a significantly poorer prognosis than their white counterparts. Numerous studies have been conducted in an attempt to explain this discrepancy. In the past, socio-economic variables such as economic status and access to adequate health care have been the focus of attention. More recently there has been a shift to understanding the racial differences in genotype, as well as hormones related to tumor growth. In the present report, we explore the effects of increased estrogen levels as a precursor to the detrimental effects of breast cancer in African American women when compared to Caucasian women. Furthermore we will explore the effects of increased estrogen levels on the apoptotic events of p53 and Bcl-2 proteins. We conclude with a discussion regarding the antagonistic behavior of varying isoforms of estrogen receptors, and their relationship to nitric oxide (NO) as a free radical. The main focus of this paper is to address the many carcinogenic pathways that are instigated by estrogen and those which may be linked to obesity. By determining the relative concentration of estrogen and related proteins within black and white populations we hope to better understand the above mentioned disparity.
Temperature measurement and control are essential in most ischemia experiments. Hypothermia lessens ischemic brain injury whereas hyperthermia exacerbates it. A substantial number of ischemia studies rely solely on rectal temperature measurements during the insult. However, rectal temperature may not accurately reflect brain temperature especially during global ischemia. Furthermore, postischemic temperature changes are often inadequately monitored. Delayed cooling reduces injury, whereas delayed hyperthermia aggravates it. This review summarizes our experiences with core and brain telemetry probes to continually measure temperature in various ischemia models. Furthermore, we discuss methods to simultaneously measure and regulate temperature in the freely moving postischemic rodent, and the need for such control in ischemia research.
A design for an inexpensive and reliable subminiature microdrive for recording single neurons in the freely moving animal is presented. The Scribe microdrive is small and lightweight and has been used successfully to record in freely moving rats and pigeons. It would also be suitable for recording in mice. The device is simple and inexpensive yet allows for stable and precise manipulation of the recording electrodes. As a result it supports stable recordings conducted over long periods. Because the Scribe microdrive is a small-diameter device it is also suitable for multisite, multielectrode applications. Here we discuss the construction of the device and comment on its use in recording from freely moving rats and pigeons.
Electromyography can be used to record activity from sets of muscles in awake, freely moving animals using implanted intramuscular electrodes. As a tool, EMG has a wide range of applications ranging from inferring neural processes to analyzing movement. The amplitude of the rectified and filtered electromyogram (EMG) can be used as an indirect measure of muscle activity. Although it is often tempting to correlate the EMG with muscle force, the fact that force varies more with different activation strategies than with EMG estimates must be taken into account. The purpose of this article is to provide the researcher wishing to introduce the technique of recording EMGs from conscious animals using intramuscular electrodes with a step-by-step guide. It includes details on the manufacture of electromyograph electrodes, recording, and analysis considerations along with a section on solving common problems. For the sake of clarity, this article focuses on using the cat as a model and on the implantation of hindlimb muscles with intramuscular wire electrodes. However, the procedures can be adapted for use on other striated muscles and species.
The methods described here allow recording of sympathetic nerve discharge in awake, freely moving animals, and follow a historical perspective of the different techniques developed over the years to record sympathetic discharge. The length of time each system is viable for recording varies from days to weeks. Also included are special hints for the surgical implantation of recording electrodes, types of recording electrodes and cables, as well as the minimum equipment necessary for recording sympathetic discharge. Lastly, a section on troubleshooting includes how to remove movement artifacts and extraneous noise, and minimize the destruction of leads common in recording in awake, freely moving animals. This article is written for the beginner or novice with an emphasis on what is needed when embarking on recording sympathetic nerve discharge in awake, freely moving animals.
Sample size calculation is a fundamental step for the validity and the usefulness of results from a study. Nevertheless, as demonstrated by some papers in the literature, such calculation is often ignored. Despite the lack of papers on this topic, it is probable that this shortcoming also affects studies on temporomandibular disorders. Therefore, the aim of this paper was to provide some basic rules to calculate the sample size necessary for different types of studies, both longitudinal and transversal, on those pathologies. Some examples of the application of such rules for different types of studies have also been provided, in order to make a full comprehension easier. In fact, the systematic application of those rules is strongly requested for the effective usefulness of results. Furthermore, an analysis of the statistical power of past studies on temporomandibular disorders could be useful to evaluate if our epidemiological and clinical-therapeutic knowledge of temporomandibular disorders is effectively based upon studies conducted with the appropriate sample size.
A cortical biopsy was analyzed using immunohistochemical methodology in a total of 213 patients with suspected normal pressure hydrocephalus (NPH). Normal intracranial pressure (ICP) was registered in 121 (43 %) of patients with suspected NPH. The incidence of Alzheimer's disease (AD) related lesions was quite high, since 38 % of all subjects displayed beta-amyloid (betaA4) aggregates and in 8 % of subjects paired helical filament-tau (PHF-tau) pathology was noted. The AD associated pathologies were more common in subjects with normal than elevated ICP. Of the 121 subjects with NPH, 16 (13 %) had subclinical, histopathologically verified AD and a further 40 subjects (33 %) could be considered to be at high risk to develop AD. Pharmacological treatment trials of AD should be carried out on subjects with evident brain pathology (betaA4 aggregates or PHF-tau pathology) especially during the early stage of the disease, i.e., the subclinical stage. For this purpose a simple cortical biopsy with a low risk of complication would represent a diagnostic &quot;method&quot; of choice.
Hyper or hypoxia may affect the immune system's chemokine production. Monocyte chemotactic protein-1 (MCP-1), an important chemotactic cytokine can be activated by active oxygen species. Groups of rats were exposed to hypoxic and hyperoxic environmental conditions for 60 h and MCP-1 was determined in their peripheral blood mononuclear cells by Elisa and Reverse Transcriptase Polymerase Chain Reaction (RT-PCR). In this study we evaluated if the ability of monocytes to produce MCP-1 under basal conditions or after stimulation with lipopolysaccharide (LPS) or phytohaemagglutinin (PHA) was differently affected by exposure to hyper or hypoxic conditions in young and aged rats. MCP-1 expression and production in monocyte/macrophages from rats at normoxic conditions was reduced in aged subjects. However, spontaneous, LPS or PHA-induced MCP-1 production was up-regulated by exposure to hyperoxic conditions in both young (62 +/- 8, 99 +/- 7, 102 +/- 8 pg/ml, respectively) and aged rats (79 +/- 4, 112 +/- 9, 117 +/- 10 pg/ ml, respectively). We conclude that hyperoxia is an important regulator of MCP-1 release and support the hypothesis that increased % of O2 may serve to initiate MCP-1 production which then serves to recruit and regulate the distribution of mononuclear cells to the sites of inflammation.
A deficit in the Jerky protein in mice causes recurrent seizures reminiscent of temporal lobe epilepsy. Jerky is present in mRNA particles in neurons. We show that the N-terminal 168 amino acids of Jerky are necessary and sufficient for mRNA binding. The binding domain is similar to the two tandemly arranged homeodomain-like helix-turn-helix DNA binding motifs of centromere binding protein B. The putative helix-turn-helix motifs of Jerky can also bind double-stranded DNA and represent a novel mammalian RNA/DNA binding domain. Microarray analysis identified mRNAs encoding proteins involved in ribosome assembly and cellular stress response that specifically bound to the RNA binding domain of Jerky both in vitro and in vivo. These data suggest that epileptogenesis in Jerky-deficient mice most likely involves pathways associated with ribosome biogenesis and neuronal survival and/or apoptosis.
To investigate the effect of global cerebral ischemia on brain cell proliferation in young adult macaques, we infused 5-bromo-2'-deoxyuridine (BrdU), a DNA replication indicator, into monkeys subjected to ischemia or sham-operated. Subsequent quantification by BrdU immunohistochemistry revealed a significant postischemic increase in the number of BrdU-labeled cells in the hippocampal dentate gyrus, subventricular zone of the temporal horn of the lateral ventricle, and temporal neocortex. In all animals, 20-40% of the newly generated cells in the dentate gyrus and subventricular zone expressed the neural progenitor cell markers Musashi1 or Nestin. A few BrdU-positive cells in postischemic monkeys were double-stained for markers of neuronal progenitors (class III beta-tubulin, TUC4, doublecortin, or Hu), neurons (NeuN), or glia (S100beta or GFAP). Our results suggest that ischemia activates endogenous neuronal and glial precursors residing in diverse locations of the adult primate central nervous system.
We have shown previously that immunization with myelin in incomplete Freund's adjuvant (IFA) is able to promote robust regeneration of corticospinal tract fibers in adult mice. In the present study the effectiveness of such immunization with myelin was compared to that of a combination of two axon growth inhibitors in myelin, Nogo-66 (the 66-amino-acid inhibitory region of Nogo-A) and myelin-associated glycoprotein (MAG). The effectiveness of two adjuvants, IFA and aluminum hydroxide (Alum), was also compared, the latter being one that can be used in humans. In addition, larger dorsal overhemisections were made at the lower thoracic level, which resulted in a larger scar. These studies were carried out in SJL/J mice, a mouse strain that is susceptible to autoimmune experimental allergic encephalomyelitis (EAE). None of the immunized mice developed EAE. Long-distance axon regeneration and sprouting of the corticospinal tract was seen in myelin and Nogo-66/MAG immunized mice. Alum was as effective or better than IFA as the adjuvant. Overall, the robustness of axon growth and sprouting was greater in mice immunized with myelin. The abundance of this growth was less than in our earlier work in which smaller lesions were made, pointing to the possible influence of inhibitors in the scar. This work shows, however, that axon growth inhibitors in myelin can be selectively blocked using this immunization approach to promote long-distance axon regeneration in the spinal cord.
We have previously demonstrated that profound and persistent neuropathic pain as displayed by mechanical and cold allodynia and thermal hyperalgesia can be produced by a lumbar 5 ventral root transection (L5 VRT) model in adult rats in which only the motor nerve fibers were injured without axotomy of sensory neurons. However, the underlying mechanisms remain to be determined. In this study, by examining its changes in expression and by inhibiting its functions using a neutralizing antibody, we have investigated whether nerve growth factor (NGF), a neurotrophic factor known to have a function in regulating nerve injury-induced pain, is involved in the development of neuropathic pain induced by L5 VRT. Motor nerve injury by L5 VRT resulted in a de novo expression of NGF mRNA in a subpopulation of small sensory neurons and pericellular satellite cells in ipsilateral L5 dorsal root ganglion. NGF protein expression was also increased by sensory neurons with various sizes and by keratinocytes in the target tissue ipsilateral skin. Systemic administration of NGF antiserum twice within 17 days markedly attenuated L5 VRT-induced mechanical allodynia but not the cold allodynia and thermal hyperalgesia. These findings suggest that NGF is an important pain mediator in the generation of mechanical sensitivity induced by L5 VRT.
The p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase (p38MAPK) is activated via phosphorylation in neurones and glial cells by a variety of stimuli including oxidative stress, excitotoxicity, and inflammatory cytokines. Activated p38MAPK can in turn induce phosphorylation of cytoskeletal proteins and activation of cytokines and nitric oxide, thus contributing to neurodegeneration. We investigated the expression and distribution of p38MAPK in the spinal cord of transgenic mice expressing a superoxide dismutase 1 mutation (SOD1G93A), a model of familial amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS). Accumulation of p38MAPK was found by immunoblotting in the spinal cord of G93A mice during the progression of disease, but no changes were detected in its mRNA levels. Immunostaining for phosphorylated p38MAPK in lumbar spinal cord sections of SOD1G93A mice at the presymptomatic and early stages of disease showed an increased labeling in motor neurones that colocalized with phosphorylated neurofilaments in vacuolized perikarya and neurites, as detected by confocal microscopy. As the disease progressed, activated p38MAPK also accumulated in hypertrophic astrocytes and reactive microglia, as demonstrated by colocalization with GFAP and CD11b immunostaining, respectively. These data suggest that activation of p38MAPK in motor neurons and then in reactive glial cells may contribute, respectively, to the development and progression of motor neuron pathology in SOD1G93A mice.
To gain insights in the molecular mechanisms of anesthesia, we analyzed the effects of bupivacaine on a series of voltage-gated K+ channels (Kv1.1, -1.2, -1.5, -2.1, -3.1, and -3.2) and various mutant channels derived from Kv2.1, using Xenopus laevis oocytes. Two phenomenologically different blocking effects were seen at room temperature: a time-dependent block of Kv1 and Kv3 channels (Kd between 110 and 240 microM), and a time-independent block on Kv2.1 (Kd = 220 microM). At 32 degrees C, however, Kv2.1 also showed a time-dependent block. Swapping the S6 helix between Kv1.2 and Kv2.1 introduced Kv1.2 features in Kv2.1. Critical residues were located in the N-terminal end of S6, positions 395 and 398. The triple substitution of residues 372, 373, and 374 in the S5-S6 linker decreased the bupivacaine affinity by 5-fold (Kd increased from 220 to 1170 microM). The results suggest that bupivacaine blocks Kv channels by an open-state-dependent mechanism and that Kv2.1 deviates from the other channels in allowing a partial closure of the channel with bupivacaine bound. The results also suggest that the binding site is located in the internal vestibule and that residues in the descending P-loop and the upper part of S6 are critical for the binding, most likely by allosteric mechanisms. A simple mechanistic scenario that explains the observations is presented. Thermodynamic considerations suggest that the interaction between bupivacaine and the channels is hydrophobic.
We determined the effect of flufenamic acid (FFA) and related derivatives on gap junction channel currents, applying the dual whole-cell patch-clamp technique to pairs of N2A neuroblastoma cells transfected with various connexins. FFA reduced gap junction channel currents in a reversible and concentration-dependent manner. Half-maximal concentrations for FFA-induced reduction of junctional conductance in cell pairs coupled by different connexins were similar (20 to 60 microM), indicating that FFA does not greatly discriminate between connexin subtypes. Hill coefficients for blockade were approximately 3, indicating a high degree of cooperativity. Analogs of FFA also reduced junctional conductance with similar potencies, whereas other unrelated chloride channel blockers had no effect. Inhibition of gap junction channels by FFA (pKa approximately 3.8) was increased at low external pH, suggesting that the uncharged form of the drug is important for blockade. The effect of FFA did not seem to be mediated by direct binding of the drug to the pore of the gap junction channel. Internal application of high concentrations of FFA by addition to patch pipettes did not cause inhibition of channel currents. The magnitude of inhibition was neither voltage-dependent nor influenced by the nature of permeant ion. Single-channel recordings indicated that FFA reduced the channel-open probability without modifying the current amplitude and induced slow transitions between open and closed states. We propose that FFA inhibits gap junctions by inducing a conformational change in the protein upon binding to a site that is presumably located within the membrane.
Acting through nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (nAChRs), acetylcholine plays an important role in retinal development and the formation of retinal connections to target tissues, but very little is known about the nAChR subtypes expressed in vertebrate retina during neuronal development. We used immunoprecipitation and [3H]epibatidine binding to study the expression of chick retina alpha-bungarotoxin-insensitive heteromeric nAChRs during development and adulthood, and found that it is strictly developmentally regulated, reaching a peak on postnatal day 1. The increase in [3H]epibatidine receptors is caused mainly by an increase in the receptors containing the alpha2, alpha6, beta3, and beta4 subunits. The contribution of beta subunits to [3H]epibatidine receptors significantly changes during development: the beta2 subunit is contained in the majority (84%) of receptors on embryonic day (E) 7 but in only 32% on postnatal day (P) 1, whereas the beta4-containing receptors increase from 22% to 78% during the same period. Using a sequential immunodepletion procedure, we purified the beta2- and beta4-containing subtypes and found that they coassemble with alpha4 and/or alpha3 on E11, and also with the alpha2, alpha6, and beta3 on P1. After the immunodepletion of alpha6-containing receptors, the beta2- and beta4-containing receptors have a very similar pharmacological profile on P1. Parallel immunoprecipitation experiments in other brain areas showed that the developmentally regulated receptors in optic lobe are those containing the alpha2, alpha5, and beta2 subunits and those containing the alpha4 and beta2 subunits, whereas the receptors in forebrain-cerebellum contain the alpha4 and beta2 subunits with or without the alpha5 subunit. These results indicate that there is an increase in receptor heterogeneity and complexity in chick retina during development that is also maintained in adulthood.
The superfamily of G-protein-coupled receptors (GPCRs) is very diverse in structure and function and its members are among the most pursued targets for drug development. We identified more than 800 human GPCR sequences and simultaneously analyzed 342 unique functional nonolfactory human GPCR sequences with phylogenetic analyses. Our results show, with high bootstrap support, five main families, named glutamate, rhodopsin, adhesion, frizzled/taste2, and secretin, forming the GRAFS classification system. The rhodopsin family is the largest and forms four main groups with 13 sub-branches. Positions of the GPCRs in chromosomal paralogons regions indicate the importance of tetraploidizations or local gene duplication events for their creation. We also searched for &quot;fingerprint&quot; motifs using Hidden Markov Models delineating the putative inter-relationship of the GRAFS families. We show several common structural features indicating that the human GPCRs in the GRAFS families share a common ancestor. This study represents the first overall map of the GPCRs in a single mammalian genome. Our novel approach of analyzing such large and diverse sequence sets may be useful for studies on GPCRs in other genomes and divergent protein families.

Since the advent of widespread testing for the presence of the DYT1 gene mutation, the range of phenotypes that have been associated with this genetic abnormality has expanded. We report on 5 DYT1 gene-positive patients with unusual phenotypes. Two of them had late presentation, one of these after peripheral injury. Three additional patients had late progression of symptoms, onset after exposure to haloperidol, and severe bulbar involvement, respectively. The clinical heterogeneity of this condition raises problems for clinicians in selecting appropriate patients for diagnostic testing. Also, because of the low phenotypic penetrance of DYT1 dystonia, the discovery of the DYT1 mutation in a patient with an atypical clinical syndrome may not necessarily suggest a causal relationship. We have, therefore, analysed all published clinical studies of DYT1 dystonia to guide clinical decision making concerning DYT1 gene testing based on current information.
This paper extends on previous data on prognosis in multiple sclerosis (MS), to encompass the entire course of the disease. The first episode suggestive of MS [the clinically isolated syndrome (CIS)] was included as a starting point, and the speed of secondary progression as an end point. Primary progressive MS was not included. Unique preconditions, with one neurological service covering the Gteborg district, allowed for establishing a strictly population-based, essentially untreated 15-year incidence cohort of 308 MS patients who were followed for 25 years. Survival analysis was performed as Kaplan-Meyer graphs, and independent predictors were ascertained by Cox regression analysis. A matrix of several predictors and end points was created. From CIS, a higher risk of developing clinically definite MS (CDMS), secondary progressive course and Disability Status Scale 7 (DSS7) was predicted by efferent tract lesions. However, less than 25% had reached DSS7 25 years after CIS with pure afferent lesions or other favorable predictors. During the first five years, higher relapse frequency, as well as incomplete remission of early bouts, predicted higher risks of secondary progressive course and DSS7 during follow-up to 25 years. However, these early predictors were unable to predict the rate of progression, which seems to contain an element of the disease process unassociated with its early events. Only late predictors, such as a shorter time from onset to secondary progression (1-10 years) and a higher number of functional systems involved at onset of progression predicted a faster progression rate. Predictors from this study could be used to refine historically controlled trials.


High and low spatial frequency information in visual images is processed by distinct neural channels. Using event-related functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) in humans, we show dissociable roles of such visual channels for processing faces and emotional fearful expressions. Neural responses in fusiform cortex, and effects of repeating the same face identity upon fusiform activity, were greater with intact or high-spatial-frequency face stimuli than with low-frequency faces, regardless of emotional expression. In contrast, amygdala responses to fearful expressions were greater for intact or low-frequency faces than for high-frequency faces. An activation of pulvinar and superior colliculus by fearful expressions occurred specifically with low-frequency faces, suggesting that these subcortical pathways may provide coarse fear-related inputs to the amygdala.
Fruit flies selectively orient toward the visual stimuli that are most salient in their environment. We recorded local field potentials (LFPs) from the brains of Drosophila melanogaster as they responded to the presentation of visual stimuli. Coupling of salience effects (odor, heat or novelty) to these stimuli modulated LFPs in the 20-30 Hz range by evoking a transient, selective increase. We demonstrated the association of these responses with behavioral tracking and initiated a genetic approach to investigating neural correlates of perception.

Understanding information processing at the neuronal level would provide valuable insights to computational intelligence research and computational neuroscience. In particular, understanding constraints on neuronal spike trains would provide indication about the type of syntactic rules used by neurons when processing information. A recent discovery, reported here, was made through analyzing microelectrode recordings (MER) made during surgical procedure in humans. Analysis of MERs of extracellular neuronal activity has gained increasing interest due to potential improvements to surgical techniques involving ablation or placement of deep brain stimulators, done in the treatment of advanced Parkinson's disease. Important to these procedures is the identification of different brain structures such as the globus pallidus internus from the spike train being recorded from the intracranial probe tip during surgery. Spike train data gathered during surgical procedure from multiple patients were processed using a novel feature extraction method reported here. Distinct structures within the spike trains were identified and used to build an effective brain region classifier. The extracted features upon analysis provide some insight into the 'syntactic' constraint on spike trains.
We investigated the importance of hippocampal theta oscillations and the significance of phase differences of theta modulation in the cortical regions that are involved in goal-directed spatial navigation. Our models used representations of entorhinal cortex layer III (ECIII), hippocampus and prefrontal cortex (PFC) to guide movements of a virtual rat in a virtual environment. The model encoded representations of the environment through long-term potentiation of excitatory recurrent connections between sequentially spiking place cells in ECIII and CA3. This encoding required buffering of place cell activity, which was achieved by a short-term memory (STM) in EC that was regulated by theta modulation and allowed synchronized reactivation with encoding phases in ECIII and CA3. Inhibition at a specific theta phase deactivated the oldest item in the buffer when new input was presented to a full STM buffer. A 180 degrees phase difference separated retrieval and encoding in ECIII and CA3, which enabled us to simulate data on theta phase precession of place cells. Retrieval of known paths was elicited in ECIII by input at the retrieval phase from PFC working memory for goal location, requiring strict theta phase relationships with PFC. Known locations adjacent to the virtual rat were retrieved in CA3. Together, input from ECIII and CA3 activated predictive spiking in cells in CA1 for the next desired place on a shortest path to a goal. Consistent with data, place cell activity in CA1 and CA3 showed smaller place fields than in ECIII.
In trying to rectify the differences in the risk, onset, and progression of neurodegenerative diseases between men and women, the gonadal hormone estrogen has been the primary focus of investigation for many years. Although this gender difference may encompass disparate and overlapping reasons, estrogen and signaling events mediated by its receptor have been shown to be neuroprotective in a number of neurodegenerative disease models such as Alzheimer's, Parkinson's, and Schizophrenia. Although data from human studies remains highly controversial, a large body of research findings suggests that this hormone plays a pivotal role in retarding and preventing the formation of neurodegenerative diseases through its receptor. By activating common intracellular signaling pathways and initiating &quot;cross talk&quot; with neurotrophins, estrogen plays an influential role in neuronal survival from injuries induced by ischemia or other environmental insults. Gaining a better understanding of these estrogen receptor mediated neuroprotective mechanisms may lead to new therapeutic strategies for the treatment or prevention of neurodegenerative diseases.


We evaluated the physiological relevance of metallothionein-III (MT-III) in the central nervous system following damage caused by a focal cryolesion onto the cortex by studying Mt3-null mice. In normal mice, dramatic astrogliosis and microgliosis and T-cell infiltration were observed in the area surrounding the lesioned tissue, along with signs of increased oxidative stress and apoptosis. There was also significant upregulation of cytokines/growth factors such as tumor necrosis factor-alpha, interleukin (IL)-1 alpha/beta, and IL-6 as measured by ribonuclease protection assay. Mt3-null mice did not differ from control mice in these responses, in sharp contrast to results obtained in Mt1- Mt2-null mice. In contrast, Mt3-null mice showed increased expression of several neurotrophins as well as of the neuronal sprouting factor GAP-43. Thus, unlike MT-I and MT-II, MT-III does not affect the inflammatory response elicited in the central nervous system by a cryoinjury, nor does it serve an important antioxidant role, but it may influence neuronal regeneration during the recovery process.
We have shown previously that in vitro ischemia could induce apoptosis in primary culture of astrocytes. In this paper we demonstrate that astrocytes in culture could undergo apoptosis during in vitro incubation postischemia. We also measured the changes of phosphorylated Erk1/2 (p-Erk1/2) and phosphorylated Akt (p-Akt) in order to determine whether these two pathways play a role in apoptosis. After 4 h in vitro ischemic incubation of cultured astrocytes, a limited amount of nuclear condensation was demonstrated by Hoechst 33342 staining. When ischemic incubation was halted and the cultures transferred to standard normoxic incubation (postischemia) conditions, DNA fragmentation and apoptosis were demonstrated by TUNEL and DNA laddering analysis. TUNEL-positive astrocytes began to appear at 6 h postischemia and increased in number from 12 h postischemia. Western blot analysis showed that both p-Erk1/2 and p-Akt were elevated in astrocytes subjected to 4 h of ischemia. Elevated p-Erk1/2 levels were sustained during the postischemia incubation for 12 h and decreased significantly afterward, but did not return to the levels in the control cultures that did not experience ischemic insult. In contrast, the p-Akt level continued to increase at 6 and 12 h postischemia before declining significantly. The changes in p-Erk1/2 and p-Akt correlated well with the appearance of apoptotic astrocytes in the culture.
We introduce a new correlation-based measure of spike timing reliability. Unlike other measures, it does not require the definition of a posteriori &quot;events&quot;. It relies on only one parameter, which relates to the timescale of spike timing precision. We test the measure on surrogate data sets with varying amounts of spike time jitter, and missing or additional spikes, and compare it with a widely used histogram-based measure. The measure is efficient and faithful in characterizing spike timing reliability and produces smaller errors in the reliability estimate than the histogram-based measure based on the same number of trials.
Research on the mechanism for growth hormone secretagogue (GHS) induction of growth hormone secretion led to the discovery of the GHS receptor (GHS-R) and later to ghrelin, an endogenous ligand for GHS-R. The ability of ghrelin to induce an increase in the intracellular Ca(2+) concentration - [Ca(2+)](i) - in somatotropes was examined in dispersed porcine pituitary cells using a calcium imaging system. Somatotropes were functionally identified by application of human growth hormone releasing hormone. Ghrelin increased the [Ca(2+)](i) in a dose-dependent manner in 98% of the cells that responded to human growth hormone releasing hormone. In the presence of (D-Lys(3))-GHRP-6, a specific receptor antagonist of GHS-R, the increase in [Ca(2+)](i) evoked by ghrelin was decreased. Pretreatment of cultures with somatostatin or neuropeptide Y reduced the ghrelin-induced increase of [Ca(2+)](i). The stimulatory effect of ghrelin on somatotropes was greatly attenuated in low-calcium saline and blocked by nifedipine, an L-type calcium channel blocker, suggesting involvement of calcium channels. In a zero Na(+) solution, the stimulatory effect of ghrelin on somatotropes was decreased, suggesting that besides calcium channels, sodium channels are also involved in ghrelin-induced calcium transients. Either SQ-22536, an adenylyl cyclase inhibitor, or U73122, a phospholipase C inhibitor, decreased the stimulatory effects of ghrelin on [Ca(2+)](i) transiently, indicating the involvement of adenylyl cyclase-cyclic adenosine monophosphate and phospholipase C inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate pathways. The nonpeptidyl GHS, L-692,585 (L-585), induced changes in [Ca(2+)](i) similar to those observed with ghrelin. Application of L-585 after ghrelin did not have additive effects on [Ca(2+)](i). Preapplication of L-585 blocked the stimulatory effect of ghrelin on somatotropes. Simultaneous application of ghrelin and L-585 did not cause an additive increase in [Ca(2+)](i). Our results suggest that the actions of ghrelin and synthetic GHS closely parallel each other, in a manner that is consistent with an increase of hormone secretion.
Intestinofugal afferent neurones (IFANs) provide excitatory synaptic input to abdominal prevertebral ganglion neurones. Input is greatly reduced during blockade of nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (nAChRs) in the wall of the colon, suggesting two projection pathways: a direct pathway without synaptic interruption and an indirect pathway interrupted by at least one nicotinic cholinergic synapse. This study aimed to characterize the morphology of IFANs and examine the distribution of nAChRs on them. We identified IFANs in guinea-pig colon by retrograde labelling with fluorescent tracer DiI placed either on the lumbar colonic nerves in vitro or inferior mesenteric ganglion in vivo. Confocal laser scanning microscopy and computerized image-processing software were used for 3D image reconstruction. Approximately 70% of identified IFANs had Dogiel type I-like morphology, the remainder were Dogiel type II-like. In vivo labelled IFANs were injected with Lucifer Yellow and immunostained for nAChRs using monoclonal antibody MAb35. Approximately 3% of total plasma membrane surface of IFANs with Dogiel type I morphology had MAb35-IR. In contrast, &lt;1% of membrane surface of IFANs with Dogiel type II morphology had MAb35-IR. The finding that IFANs displayed immunostaining for nAChRs suggests the presence of putative nicotinic synapses.
This report provides a commentary on the issues presented and discussed at the recent &quot;Functional Brain Connectivity&quot; workshop, held in Dusseldorf, Germany. The workshop brought together researchers using different approaches to study connectivity in the brain, providing them with an opportunity to share conceptual, mathematical, and experimental ideas and to develop strategies and collaborations for future work on functional integration. The main themes that emerged included: (1) the importance of anatomical knowledge in understanding functional interactions the brain; (2) the need to establish common definitions for terms used across disciplines; (3) the need to develop a satisfactory framework for inferring causality from functional imaging and EEG/MEG data; (4) the importance of analytic tools that capture the dynamics of neural interactions; and (5) the role of experimental paradigms that exploit the functional imaging of perturbations to cortical interactions.
A common problem in gradient-echo echo planar imaging (EPI) is the occurrence of image distortions and signal losses caused by susceptibility gradients near air/tissue interfaces. Since EPI is frequently used for functional magnetic resonance imaging experiments based on the blood oxygenation level-dependent effect, functional studies of certain brain regions affected by susceptibility gradients, such as the temporal lobes and the orbitofrontal cortex, may be compromised. In this work a method for signal recovery in certain regions of the orbitofrontal cortex is presented. The influence of in-plane susceptibility gradients is reduced by optimization of the imaging slice orientation. Through-plane susceptibility gradients are partly compensated by means of a moderate preparation gradient pulse similar to z-shimming. In contrast to several other techniques proposed in the literature for reducing susceptibility effects, this method does not compromise the temporal resolution and is therefore applicable to event-related studies.
Many everyday life predictions rely on the experience and memory of event frequencies, i.e., natural samplings. We used functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) to investigate the neural substrates of prediction under varying uncertainty based on a natural sampling approach. The study focused particularly on a comparison with other types of externally attributed uncertainty, such as guessing, and on the frontomedian cortex, which is known to be engaged in many types of decisions under uncertainty. On the basis of preceding stimulus cues, participants predicted events that occurred with probabilities ranging from p = 0.6 to p = 1.0. In contrast to certain predictions in a control task, predictions under uncertainty elicited activations within a posterior frontomedian area (mesial BA 8) and within a set of subcortical areas which are known to subserve dopaminergic modulations. The parametric analysis revealed that activation within the mesial BA 8 significantly increased with increasing uncertainty. A comparison with other types of uncertainty indicates that frontomedian correlates of frequency-based prediction appear to be comparable with those induced in long-term stimulus-response adaptation processes such as hypothesis testing, in contrast to those engaged in short-term error processing such as guessing.

A rare case of a lobar holoprosencephaly with cyclopia, associated with non-nervous system anomalies is being reported.
The association of internuclear ophthalmoplegia (INO) with torsional nystagmus is rare. We report a case of a 72-year-old male who developed brainstem stroke and was found to have left INO with torsional nystagmus. An MRI correlation in this case has been described.

In the present study, we performed immunohistochemical techniques to investigate the changes in ubiquitin expression in the central nervous system of the transgenic mice expressing a human superoxide dismutase 1 mutation (SOD1)G93A. Sections of brains from control mice showed virtually no immunostaining for ubiquitin, whereas sections from SOD1G93A transgenic mice contained numerous granular or linear deposits of ubiquitin. A high density of the processes containing ubiquitin was detected all around the gray matter of the spinal cord of the mutant transgenic mice. Ubiquitin immunoreactivity was also detected in the cerebellum, brainstem and midbrain of transgenic mice. The first demonstration of the distribution of ubiquitin in the whole brains of the transgenic mice may provide clues for understanding the neuronal degeneration mechanism in amyotrophic lateral sclerosis and other neurodegenerative diseases.
Platelet-derived growth factor (PDGF), vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) and fibroblast growth factor 2 (FGF-2) are involved in the development of grade 2 gliomas. The aim of the present study was to determine the presence of these growth factors in the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) and to assess their usefulness as biological markers. CSF was collected from 7 adult patients with newly diagnosed supratentorial low-grade gliomas by lumbar puncture and was analysed together with matched serum samples using radioreceptor and enzyme-linked immunosorbant assays. Neither PDGF nor VEGF were detected in the CSF, and FGF-2 was measurable at extremely low concentrations in only 2 of 7 patients. Serum levels were within normal limits. We conclude that these growth factors are not released into the CSF in any significant amounts and are therefore not suitable as biological markers in grade 2 gliomas.
Dystroglycan (DG) is an essential component of the dystrophin-glycoprotein complex, a molecular scaffold that links the extracellular matrix to the actin cytoskeleton. Dystroglycan protein is post-translationally cleaved into alpha dystroglycan, a highly glycosylated peripheral membrane protein, and beta dystroglycan, a transmembrane protein. Despite clear evidence of the importance of dystroglycan and its associated proteins in muscular dystrophy, the purpose of dystroglycan proteolysis is unclear. By introducing a point mutation at the normal site of proteolysis (serine 654 to alanine, DGS654A), we have created a dystroglycan protein that is severely inhibited in its cleavage. Transgenic expression of DGS654A in mouse skeletal muscles inhibited the expression of endogenously cleaved dystroglycan, while overexpression of wild type dystroglycan by similar amounts did not. DGS654A animals had increased serum creatine kinase activity and most muscles had increased numbers of central nuclei. Overexpression of wild type dystroglycan, by contrast, caused no dystrophy by these measures. Dystrophy in DGS654A muscles correlated with reduced binding of antibodies that recognize glycosylated forms of alpha dystroglycan. Lastly, neuromuscular junctions in DGS654A muscles were aberrant in structure. These data show that aberrant processing of the dystroglycan polypeptide causes muscular dystrophy and suggest that dystroglycan processing is important for the proper glycosylation of alpha dystroglycan.
The presence and distribution of misrouted (MR) olfactory projection fibres were studied in the olfactory bulbs of control human brains and in the brains of people who had suffered from Parkinson's and Alzheimer's disease. It appeared that MR fibres, that is, fibres that terminate deep into the glomerular layer, are a common phenomenon in the bulbs of aged people. In all but one of the bulbs studied, MR fibres are present. The amount of MR fibres is not related to age. With a few exceptions, the MR fibres are restricted to the external plexiform layer (EPL). Only in Parkinson bulbs the MR fibres occasionally form glomerulus-like structures. These pseudo glomeruli are located in the EPL. It is concluded that MR olfactory projection fibres are a normal phenomenon in the human olfactory bulb. In nonhuman mammalians, MR fibres have only been observed in foetal and neonatal olfactory bulbs. Possibly, the age-related loss of mitral cells, which are the natural synaptic targets for the olfactory projection fibres, may play a role in the aberrant behaviour of the MR olfactory receptor cell axons. The ectopic glomerulus-like structures in Parkinson bulbs share some characteristics with normal rat glomeruli that are not observed in normal human olfactory glomeruli. This may refer to possible changes in the genetic content of olfactory structures in Parkinson patients.
Pathological inclusions containing fibrillar aggregates of hyperphosphorylated tau protein are a characteristic feature in the tauopathies, which include Alzheimer's disease, frontotemporal dementia with parkinsonism linked to chromosome 17 (FTDP-17), progressive supranuclear palsy, corticobasal degeneration and Pick's disease. Tau isoform composition and cellular and regional distribution as well as morphology of these inclusions vary in each disorder. Recently, several pathological missense and exon 10 splice-donor site mutations of the tau gene were identified in FTDP-17. Exon 10 codes for the second of four microtubule-binding repeat domains. The splice-site mutations result in increased inclusion of exon 10 which causes a relative increase in tau isoforms containing four microtubule-binding repeat domains over those containing three repeat domains. This could be a central aetiological mechanism in FTDP-17 and, perhaps, other related tauopathies. We have investigated changes in the ratio and distribution of three-repeat and four-repeat tau in the different tauopathies as a basis of the phenotypic range of these disorders and the selective vulnerability of different subsets of neurones. In this study, we have developed two monoclonal antibodies, RD3 and RD4 that effectively distinguish these closely related tau isoforms. These new isoform-specific antibodies are useful tools for analysing tau isoform expression and distribution as well as pathological changes in the human brain.
The relative amounts of amyloid beta-protein (A beta) in cerebral blood vessels and parenchyma vary considerably amongst patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD). Although several mechanisms have been proposed to explain this variability, the underlying genetic and environmental determinants are still unclear, as are the functional consequences. Polymorphisms in APOE, the gene for apolipoprotein E (ApoE), influence the risk of developing AD and of deposition of A beta within the brain. We examined the relationship between the APOE genotype and the relative extent of accumulation of A beta as plaques within the cerebral parenchyma and in cortical blood vessels in the form of cerebral amyloid angiopathy (CAA), in autopsy brain tissue from 125 AD cases and from 53 elderly, neurologically normal controls of which 19 had CAA without other neuropathological features of AD. In the AD cases, we also assessed whether the severity of CAA was related to the age of onset and duration of dementia, risk factors for atherosclerotic vascular disease, and histologically demonstrable cerebral infarcts or foci of haemorrhage. The APOE genotype was determined by a standard polymerase chain reaction-based method. Paraffin sections of frontal, temporal and parietal lobes were immunolabelled for A beta and the parenchymal A beta load (total A beta minus vessel-associated A beta) was quantified by computer-assisted image analysis. CAA severity was scored for cortical and leptomeningeal vessels. The relevant clinical data were obtained from the database of the South West Brain Bank. In AD, we found the severity of CAA to be strongly associated with the number of epsilon 4 alleles (P &lt; 0.0001) but the parenchymal A beta load to be independent of APOE genotype. Cases with severe CAA had a lower parenchymal A beta load than had those with moderate CAA (P = 0.003). Neither the severity of CAA nor the parenchymal A beta load correlated with age of onset, duration of disease or age at death, and the severity of CAA also did not correlate with the presence of cerebral infarcts or foci of haemorrhage. These findings indicate that possession of the APOE epsilon 4 allele favours vascular over parenchymal accumulation of A beta in AD. This may influence the pathogenesis of neurodegeneration in epsilon 4-associated AD.
Interleukin-6 (IL-6) has a number of roles including recruitment of T lymphocytes and differentiation of B lymphocytes into IgG-secreting plasma cells. Furthermore, IL-6 is a neuropoietic cytokine with effects on neuronal differentiation, function and survival. We studied IL-6 concentrations in children with acute disseminated encephalomyelitis (ADEM; n = 14), and compared the values with those obtained from control patients with other inflammatory (OIND; n = 13) and non-inflammatory (NIND; n = 10) neurological disorders. Patients with ADEM had a significantly increased CSF IL-6 concentration compared with both OIND and NIND groups ( P &lt; 0.01). Serum IL-6 was also increased in the ADEM group compared with the OIND group ( P &lt; 0.05). CSF: serum IL-6 ratios were significantly increased in the ADEM group compared with the NIND group ( P &lt; 0.05), suggesting an intrathecal production of IL-6 rather than its passive transfer across the blood-brain barrier alone. In ADEM, there was a significant correlation between an increased CSF IL-6 and an identical pattern of oligoclonal IgG synthesis in both serum and CSF ( P &lt; 0.05). These results would suggest a role for IL-6 in the pathology of ADEM, and a possible direct link between an increased IL-6 and a proliferation of B lymphocytes with consequent IgG production.
In the retina, activation of dopamine receptors, particularly the D2-like family (D2, D3, D4 receptor subtypes), with quinpirole suppresses the light sensitive cAMP pool and inhibits melatonin synthesis in photoreceptor cells. We have characterised rat retinal D4 receptors using the D4 selective radioligand [(125)I] L-750667 which bound specifically and saturably to rat retinal membranes with high affinity (K(d) 0.06+/-0.02 nM) and exhibited a D4 receptor pharmacology. Comparison of the binding kinetics of [(125)I] L-750667 and [(3)H] spiperone revealed B(max) values of 134+/-27 fmol/mg and 219+/-47 fmol/mg respectively, indicating that the dopamine D4 receptor is a major component of D2-like dopamine receptors in the rat retina. Modulation of retinal cAMP levels by quinpirole was used to evaluate the functional relevance of rat retinal dopamine D4 receptors. Quinpirole (0.03-3 micro ) produced a dose-related decrease of the light sensitive cAMP pool which was reversed by haloperidol, clozapine and the D4 selective antagonist, L-745870 with a rank order of potency suggesting that the quinpirole effect is due to activation of the dopamine D4 receptors. The D2 selective ligand L-741626 had no effect on the quinpirole response confirming that the D4 receptor is the major receptor subtype mediating dopamine induced suppression of adenylate cyclase in the retina.
The 5-HT(7) receptor is a recent addition to the 5-HT receptor family and to date there is no clear idea as to its potential role in the CNS. The receptor has been mapped by in situ hybridization and 5-HT(7)-like immunoreactivity and has been detected in discrete areas of the brain including the hypothalamus (Oliver et al., 1999). This suggests the receptor may be involved in temperature regulation and have shown that a selective 5-HT(7) receptor antagonist reverses the hypothermic effect of 5-CT in guinea-pigs. The current study confirmed that the 5-HT(7) receptor antagonists, SB-269970 (1-30 mg/kg, i.p.) and SB-258719 (5-20 mg/kg, i.p.), but not the 5-HT(1A) receptor antagonist, WAY 100635(0.1-1 mg/kg, s.c.), or the 5-HT(1B/D) antagonist, GR127935 (1.25-5 mg/kg, i.p.), reversed the hypothermic effect of 5-CT in mice. In addition the effect of 5-CT on body temperature was examined on 5-HT(7) receptor null mutant mice. 5-CT (0.1-1 mg/kg, i.p.) significantly reduced rectal temperature in wildtype but not 5-HT(7) receptor knockout mice. This suggests that the hypothermic effects of 5-CT are mediated through the 5-HT(7) receptor. All procedures were carried out in accordance with the UK Animals (Scientific Procedures) Act (1986).
The effects of the cocaine- and amphetamine-regulated transcript (CART) peptide on central dopaminergic (DA) neurons were examined in ovariectomized, estrogen-primed Sprague-Dawley rats in both the morning and afternoon. Intracerebroventricular administration of 1 microg, but not lower doses of the CART peptide (55-102), either in the morning or afternoon produced a prolonged increase in the 3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid (DOPAC) level in the median eminence (ME) and a corresponding decrease of serum prolactin (PRL) levels, which resulted from stimulation of tuberoinfundibular dopaminergic neurons. The CART peptide stimulated DOPAC levels in the striatum (ST), nucleus accumbens (NA), hypothalamic paraventricular nucleus (PVN), and periventricular (A14), but had no effect in the medial prefrontal cortex (MPFC) or suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN). These effects of the CART peptide on stimulation of central DA systems and inhibition of PRL levels are specific because the inactive form of the CART peptide (0.1 and 1 microg) could not induce a similar response. Stimulatory effects of the CART peptide on different central DA systems displayed differential time-response profiles in the NA and ST, ME, and PVN and A14. These findings indicate that the CART peptide may selectively regulate certain central DA neuronal activities.
In this study, we have used a combination of immunocytochemical and Ca(2+) imaging techniques to determine the functional localisation of insulin receptors as well as the potential role for insulin in modulating hippocampal synaptic activity. Comparison of insulin receptor and MAP2 labelling demonstrated extensive insulin receptor immunoreactivity on the soma and dendrites of cultured hippocampal neurones. Dual labelling with synapsin 1 also showed punctate insulin receptor labelling associated with synapses. In functional studies, insulin inhibited spontaneous Ca(2+) oscillations evoked in cultured hippocampal neurones following Mg(2+) removal. This action of insulin was mimicked by the ATP-sensitive K(+) (K(ATP)) channel opener diazoxide or the large conductance Ca(2+)-activated K(+) (BK) channel activator NS-1619. Furthermore, application of the K(ATP) channel blocker glybenclamide or the BK channel inhibitors iberiotoxin or charybdotoxin attenuated the actions of insulin, whereas prior incubation with a combination of glybenclamide and iberiotoxin completely blocked insulin action. The ability of insulin to modulate the Ca(2+) oscillations was reduced by the inhibitors of MAPK activation PD 98059 and U0126, but not by the PI 3-kinase inhibitors LY 294002 or wortmannin, indicating that a MAPK-driven process underlies insulin action. In conclusion, insulin inhibits spontaneous Ca(2+) oscillations via a process involving MAPK-driven activation of BK and K(ATP) channels. This process may be a useful therapeutic target for the treatment of epilepsy and certain neurodegenerative diseases.
The discovery of the obese gene product, leptin has generated enormous interest in how the periphery signals the status of nutritional stores to specific hypothalamic nuclei involved in regulating feeding and energy balance. However it is emerging that leptin, in addition to its role as a circulating satiety factor, is a multi-faceted hormone that plays a key role in a variety of CNS functions. In this review, we summarise recent progress in leptin biology, with particular focus on its diversity of actions within the CNS, ranging from satiety signal, to regulator of bone formation and inhibitor of neuronal excitability.
Schizophrenic patients suffer from positive (delusions, hallucinations) and negative signs (social withdrawal) as well as emotional disturbance that included quantitative (blunted affect) and qualitative impairments (discordance of emotional level). Ketamine, a phencyclidine derivative, is a non competitive N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) glutamate receptor antagonist. In healthy subjects its administration induces some positive symptoms (perceptual distortions.), negative symptoms (emotional deficit, apathy, social withdrawal) and cognitive changes (memory impairments and perseverations) that resemble some aspects of the symptoms of schizophrenia. A double blind cross over, placebo controlled was performed in 12 normal subjects with 2 sessions separated by one week of wash-out to determine ketamine-induced effects on behavioral and emotional responses. During each session, subjects received either ketamine or placebo (saline) infusion. A subanesthetic dose of ketamine (0,5 mg/kg) was administered by constant perfusion over 60 min. Behavioral and cognitive responses were assessed using positive and negative symptoms scales (BPRS, items from SAPS and SANS), vigilance and mood visual analog scale, subjective feelings using the Addiction Research Center Inventory (ARCI) and the Profile of Mood States (POMS). Using Philippot's method, emotions were elicited by films segments which induce a diversity of predictable emotions (fear, anger, sadness, joy, disgust and neutral state) and emotional responses were assessed by the Differential Emotions Scale (DES Izard). Low dose of ketamine induced significant effects on 7-items BPRS score (positive and negative items) and significant effects on positive and negative symptoms from SANS and SAPS. This was associated with emotional blunting of visually-induced responses that resemble aspects of schizophrenic emotional impairments. Ketamine impaired ARCI subscales (benzedrine subscale, pentobarbital-chlorpromazine subscale and LSD subscale). The recent findings of ketamine's pharmacology and imaging studies allow to draw several hypothesis related to neurotransmitter systems (glutamate, dopamine, serotonin interactions) and cerebral areas (particularly prefrontal cortex, anterior cingulate cortex, hippocampus) underlying some of these ketamine-induced effects.
Repeated intermittent treatment with amphetamine increases the density of dendritic spines on medium spiny neurons (MSNs) in the nucleus accumbens (NAcc). The purpose of this study was two-fold: (1) to determine whether amphetamine has similar effects on MSNs in the caudate-putamen (CPu) and (2) to determine if this effect is localized to distal dendrites, the site of convergence of dopamine (DA) and glutamate synapses in the striatum. An amphetamine treatment regimen that produced behavioral sensitization increased the density of dendritic spines on MSNs in both the NAcc and dorsolateral CPu. This effect was long lasting, because it was evident 3.5 months after the discontinuation of drug treatment. The increase in spine density was confined to distal dendrites of MSNs, and was not apparent on dendrites close to the cell body. It is concluded that amphetamine may preferentially reorganize synapses at the site of DA-glutamate interaction in the striatum, which may alter DA-glutamate signaling and thereby contribute to some of the persistent behavioral and psychological consequences of repeated exposure to psychostimulant drugs.
Teenage drinking is a cause of growing concern in industrialized countries, where almost 35% of alcohol drinkers are under 16 years old. Increased anxiety, irritability, and depression among adolescents may induce them to seek the anxiolytic and rewarding properties of alcohol. We studied the effects of acute alcohol intoxication (AAI) on the plasma levels of progesterone and allopregnanolone in female adolescents. Blood samples were drawn from female adolescents who arrived at the emergency department. One study group was formed by those who arrived with evident behavioral symptoms of AAI and the other by those arriving for mild trauma (contusions, sprains) after no consumption of alcohol (controls). Our results demonstrate that AAI significantly increases serum progesterone and allopregnanolone levels in both follicular and luteal phases of the ovarian cycle. Since alcohol and allopregnanolone positively modulate gamma-aminobutyric acid type A (GABA(A)) receptors, allopregnanolone may play a major role in the anxiolytic and rewarding effects of alcohol, either directly or by influencing the sensitivity of GABA(A)-receptors to alcohol.
The objectives of this article were to study the impact of the hand function disability due to ulnar neuropathy at the elbow (UNE) on workers engaged in occupations requiring heavy hand use. Four patients (42.5 +/- 7 years old), all engaged in heavy-duty jobs, with severe conduction block but without severe axonal loss were recruited. The severity of ulnar nerve compression was quantified based on electrophysiologic studies, Jebsen-Taylor Hand Function Test, Jamar dynamometer, and Semmes-Weinstein Monofilaments Test. UNE resulted in a reduction in hand strength without any significant impact on fine motor dexterity. The 4 laborers whose work required strong hand grip found this debilitating. Severe UNE affects the hand function of heavy manual workers by impeding their grip and pinch strengths. However, UNE does not affect tasks requiring fine hand dexterity.
he characteristics and potential applications of a test assessing animals' behavioral responses to another individual placed in the neighboring sector of the cage, divided in half by a transparent partition with holes, are discussed. The animals' behavioral responses differed depending on the physiological and psychological state of an individual, its social experience, type of partner in the neighboring sector, and line. The &quot;partition&quot; test can be informative and productive in experiments designed to study the neurochemical and neurophysiological mechanisms of sociability, anxiety, olfaction, aggressive and sexual behavior, and in experiments addressing the psychotropic properties of agents.
Focusing on the hippocampal CA1 region, effects of peripheral gonadal and adrenal steroids on the glucocorticoid receptor (GR) were immunohistochemically evaluated in male and female adult rat brains after adrenalectomy (ADX), gonadectomy (GDX), and administration of estradiol (E2) and/or corticosterone (CS). In ADXed male rats, the hippocampal nuclear GR decreased and turned back to the cytoplasm, whereas in females, nuclear localization persisted even after ADX. In GDX+ADXed female rats, the GR was dispersedly translocated from the nucleus to the cytoplasm as well as in GDX+ADXed males. The dispersed cytoplasmic GR was again translocated into the nucleus by administration of CS. In addition, administration of a small dose of E2 for 4-13 days was found to sufficiently recover the nuclear location of GR in GDX+ADXed rat brains, whereas medium-to-large doses could not do this. Also, a longer administration more strongly enhances the nuclear GR location and expression. The present study provided strong immunohistochemical evidence that the sexually dimorphic effects of ADX on hippocampal GR are attributable to gonadal hormones, and that E2 is implicated in the effects in inversely-dose- and directly-duration-dependent manner. Taken together, intriguing gonadal and adrenal crosstalk is considered to play some important role in regulating hippocampal GR morphology and to have a possibly crucial influence on stress-related disorders such as depression.
Dynamic movements of AMPA receptors in and out of the postsynaptic membrane account for, at least in part, the expression of NMDA receptor-dependent changes in synaptic efficacy such as long-term potentiation and long-term depression. Recently some of key molecules and subunit rules involved in AMPA receptor trafficking have been identified. In this update article, we try to highlight what we believe to be the major conceptual problems and unanswered questions in this rapidly moving field of neuroscience.

Calcium-activated potassium channels are a large family of potassium channels that are found throughout the central nervous system and in many other cell types. These channels are activated by rises in cytosolic calcium largely in response to calcium influx via voltage-gated calcium channels that open during action potentials. Activation of these potassium channels is involved in the control of a number of physiological processes from the firing properties of neurons to the control of transmitter release. These channels form the target for modulation for a range of neurotransmitters and have been implicated in the pathogenesis of neurological and psychiatric disorders. Here the authors summarize the varieties of calcium-activated potassium channels present in central neurons and their defining molecular and biophysical properties.
How is sensory information encoded by the patterns of action potentials emitted by ensembles of neurons? Computational methods have recently been applied to this fundamental question and have found, both in the somatosensory and visual system, that the basic unit of information transmission is the timing of individual spikes. In systems studied to date, the neuronal population codes appear to be simple ones that do not rely on complex patterns of correlated spikes.


Various stresses cause the accumulation of unfolded proteins in the endoplasmic reticulum (ER). To manage the state, cells have the unfolded protein responses (UPR). If the UPR is unsuccessful, ER-mediated apoptosis occurs. To date, three types of UPR, i.e. the induction of chaperones, the translation block, and ER-associated degradation (ERAD) have been reported. To sense the accumulation of unfolded proteins, the ER has IRE1, PERK, and ATF6. The pathways mediated by IRE1 and ATF6 cause the induction of chaperones. The pathway mediated by PERK causes a translation block. The induction of caspase 12, the activation of the JNK pathway, and the induction of CHOP have been reported as apoptosis caused by ER stress. The stability of the cell is based on the balance between UPR and ER-mediated apoptosis. Recently several diseases have been reported to be related to ER stress. We reported that mutant presenilin 1 causes a vulnerability to ER stress because it attenuates the activation of IRE1, PERK, and ATF6. Recent reports have also shown that Parkinson disease and polyglutamine diseases are relevant to ER stress. Therefore it is suggested that the ER stress story is the common mechanism for neurodegerative disorders.
Protein kinase C (PKC) is a family, which consists of at least ten subtypes. To elucidate subtype-specific functions of PKC, we have developed the methods to observe PKC translocation in real time and in the living state using PKC fused with fluorescent proteins, including GFP and DsRed. Based on the live imaging of PKC translocation, we have demonstrated that PKC showed stimulus- and subtype-specific translocation, which can recognize its specific substrate and induce its specific cellular response (PKC targeting). These findings suggest that PKC targeting is the molecular basis underlying the diversity of PKC functions. Live imaging of PKC translocation has been proved to be a beneficial tool for understanding not only PKC functions, but also PKC-mediated signal transduction pathways. We have further analyzed PKC functions in the central nervous system using transgenic mice, which can express PKC-GFP in a brain-region-specific manner.

Apelin, the endogenous peptide ligand of the APJ receptor, is expressed in brain regions implicated in food and water intake. This study reports for the first time, the effect of apelin-12, one of the most potent apelin peptides, on spontaneous (nocturnal) feeding. Randomised intracerebroventricular injection of 1, 3 and 10 nmol apelin-12 or saline vehicle, 10 min prior to lights out, led to dose-dependent reductions in food intake 2-4 h after injection (n = 7; p &lt; 0.05). This suggests that apelin-12 exerts a delayed inhibitory effect on nocturnal feeding. Relative to saline, no effect was observed on total 24-h food intake post injection. In contrast, day-time administration of 10 nmol apelin-12 to satiated rats stimulated feeding (n = 5-11; p &lt; 0.05); lower doses had no effect. No changes in water intake were observed after apelin-12. These results suggest that apelin is involved in the central control of feeding.
Laser evoked potentials (LEPs) are nociceptive-related brain responses to activation of cutaneous nociceptors by laser radiant heat stimuli. We previously showed that LEP amplitude during the P2 period (approximately 400 ms) was increased by rare noxious stimuli, inside and outside the focus of spatial attention. It was postulated that this effect reflected a P3a response indexing an involuntary shift of attention. In the present study, LEPs were recorded in a three-stimulus oddball paradigm, commonly used to evoke P3a (or novelty-P3). CO(2) laser-induced noxious stimuli were delivered on one hand (80%, frequent). Two series of rare stronger-intensity deviant stimuli were randomly intermixed: target stimuli (10%) were delivered on the same hand while distractor stimuli (10%) were delivered on the other hand. Subjects were instructed to count targets. During an additional session, strong stimuli were delivered alone on one hand without instruction (100%, no-task stimuli). All stimulus types evoked a first positivity around 360 ms (P360). Targets and distractors elicited a late positive complex (LPC) around 465-500 ms. Topography of LPC to distractors was central and significantly more anterior than that of LPC to targets. Distractor LPC corresponds to P3a (or novelty-P3) indexing an involuntary orientation of attention toward an unexpected new/deviant event. It suggests that at least an early part of the LEP positivity (P360) is independent of P3-activities.
Highly variable phenotype expression has long been recognized in DYT1 carrier patients. We report here an Ashkenazi-Jewish woman who carried a DYT1 mutation and developed a predominant unilateral myoclonic-dystonia (MD) displaying a fluctuating course. The present case is the second supporting the variability of DYT1 phenotype and further illustrates its ability to mimic the MD syndrome.
Microdysgenesis (MD) is a neuropathological term that implies a variety of minor developmental abnormalities of the brain. Recently, MD has been used for pathological diagnosis of cerebral tissues surgically resected from epileptic patients. However, criteria or consensus on pathological diagnosis of MD is still vague and controversial because of the lack of control studies. Therefore, this study paid special attention to the presence of white matter neurons with perineuronal glial satellitosis (WMN-GS) and perivascular glial satellitosis (PVGS) in the white matter, which are occasionally observed in epileptic foci, in order to clarify whether they could be handled as definite findings of MD. The materials included 80 autopsied whole brains ranging from normal subjects to patients with cerebrovascular disorder, neurodegenerative diseases and malformations. In each case, the presence of WMN-GS and/or PVGS was searched in 10 gyri in all five lobes (rostral frontal lobe, caudal frontal lobe, parietal lobe, temporal lobe and oc-cipital lobe) and evaluated. Statistically significant, WMN-GS and/or PVGS preferentially appeared in a diseased group consisting of neuronal migration disorder and related conditions, such as polymicrogyria, nodular heterotopia or tuberous sclerosis, leading to a suggestive conclusion that the presence of WMN-GS and/or PVGS could be a peculiar form of MD possibly derived from neuronal migrational arrest or related events, even if they appear alone without any other gross abnormalities.
In a double-blind, placebo-controlled study, postmenopausal women (53-65 years old) were randomly assigned to 7-day treatment with Ginkgo (120 mg/day, n=15) or matched placebo (n=16). They were given a battery of cognitive tests and measurements of mood and menopausal symptoms at baseline (before treatment began) and at the end of 7 days. The group treated with Ginkgo was significantly better than the placebo group in a matching-to-sample test of nonverbal memory, but the groups did not differ in immediate or delayed paragraph recall or in delayed recall of pictures. In a test of frontal lobe function (rule shifting) and in the Paced Auditory Serial Addition Test (PASAT) (which measures sustained attention but also involves frontal lobe function), the group treated with Ginkgo performed significantly better than the placebo group. However, the groups did not differ in a test of planning. The treatments did not differ in their effects on the volunteers' ratings of menopausal symptoms, sleepiness, bodily symptoms or aggression. The benefits of Ginkgo on memory and frontal lobe function found in this study are modest but are unlikely to be secondary to major mood changes.
Both Ginkgo biloba and Panax ginseng exert a number of physiological effects and have been shown to modulate aspects of cognitive performance. Whilst a number of studies have examined ginkgo's effects on electroencephalograph (EEG) recordings, to date, none have investigated the EEG effects of ginseng. In this double-blind, placebo-controlled, balanced crossover experiment, the effects of single doses of G. biloba (360 mg GK501), P. ginseng (200 mg G115), and an identical placebo, on auditory-evoked potentials, contingent negative variation (CNV), and resting power within the delta, theta, alpha, and beta wavebands, were assessed in 15 healthy volunteers. Each participant was assessed on three separate occasions 4 h after consuming that day's treatment. The order of presentation of the treatments was dictated by a Latin square with 7 days between testing sessions. The results showed that ginseng led to a significant shortening of the latency of the P300 component of the evoked potential. Both ginseng and ginkgo also led to significant reductions in frontal 'eyes closed' theta and beta activity, with additional reduction for ginseng in the alpha waveband. These findings demonstrate for the first time that P. ginseng can directly modulate cerebroelectrical activity, and that these effects are more pronounced than those following G. biloba.
Ginseng has been used medicinally in the Far East for several millennia and is currently one of the most widely taken herbal products throughout the world. It has been attributed with a plethora of physiological effects that could potentially benefit cognitive performance or mood. Studies involving animals show that ginseng and its constituent ginsenosides can modulate indices of stress, fatigue, and learning. However, there is a lack of adequately controlled research showing behavioural effects following chronic administration to humans. Recent research has demonstrated that single doses of ginseng most notably engender cognitive benefits in terms of improved memory, but can also be associated with 'costs' in terms of attention task deficits following less mnemonically beneficial doses. A single dose of ginseng has also been shown to modulate cerebroelectrical (EEG) activity. It is suggested that ginseng would benefit from rigorous research further delineating its acute effects and exploring the relationship between acute effects and those seen during and following chronic administration regimens.
Sage (Salvia) has a longstanding reputation in British herbal encyclopaedias as an agent that enhances memory, although there is little evidence regarding the efficacy of sage from systematized trials. Based on known pharmacokinetic and binding properties, it was hypothesised that acute administration of sage would enhance memory in young adult volunteers. Two experiments utilised a placebo-controlled, double-blind, balanced, crossover methodology. In Trial 1, 20 participants received 50, 100 and 150 microl of a standardised essential oil extract of Salvia lavandulaefolia and placebo. In Trial 2, 24 participants received 25 and 50 microl of a standardised essential oil extract of S. lavandulaefolia and placebo. Doses were separated by a 7-day washout period with treatment order determined by Latin squares. Assessment was undertaken using the Cognitive Drug Research computerised test battery prior to treatment and 1, 2.5, 4 and 6 h thereafter. The primary outcome measures were immediate and delayed word recall. The 50 microl dose of Salvia essential oil significantly improved immediate word recall in both studies. These results represent the first systematic evidence that Salvia is capable of acute modulation of cognition in healthy young adults.
18-Methoxycoronaridine (18-MC), a novel iboga alkaloid congener that decreases drug self-administration in several animal models, may be a potential treatment for multiple forms of drug abuse. In animal models, 18-MC reduced intravenous morphine, cocaine, methamphetamine and nicotine self-administration, oral alcohol and nicotine intake, and attenuated signs of opioid withdrawal, but had no effect on responding for a nondrug reinforcer (water) and produced no apparent toxicity [Brain Res. 719 (1996) 29; NeuroReport 11 (2000) 2013; Pharmacol. Biochem. Behav. 58 (1997) 615; Psychopharmacology (Berl.) 139 (1998) 274; NeuroReport 9 (1998) 1283; Ann. N. Y. Acad. Sci. 914 (2000) 369]. Consistent with a relationship among drug sensitization, mesolimbic dopamine, and drug-seeking behavior, 18-MC also blocked the sensitized dopamine responses to morphine and cocaine in the nucleus accumbens. An extensive series of receptor studies showed that 18-MC was most potent and somewhat selective as an antagonist at alpha3beta4 nicotinic receptors. Low-dose combinations of 18-MC with other drugs known to have this same action (e.g., mecamylamine, dextromethorphan, bupropion) decreased morphine, methamphetamine, and nicotine self-administration in rats at doses that were ineffective if administered alone. Together, the data support the hypothesis that diencephalic pathways having high densities of alpha3beta4 nicotinic receptors modulate mesocorticolimbic pathways more directly involved in drug reinforcement. Antagonists of alpha3beta4 nicotinic receptors may represent a totally novel approach to treating multiple addictive disorders, and 18-MC might be the first of a new class of synthetic agents acting via this novel mechanism and having a broad spectrum of activity.
The hypothalamus is critically involved in energy homeostasis and is an appropriate focus for research investigating the central neural underpinnings of obesity, anorexia and normal food intake. However, little is known regarding pathways and mechanisms that convey relevant hypothalamic signals to the brainstem circuits that ultimately control ingestive behavior. This brief review highlights work investigating the postnatal development of hypothalamic inputs to the hindbrain dorsal vagal complex (DVC). Research findings indicate that these inputs are both structurally and functionally immature in newborn rats. The progressive postnatal maturation of descending projections to the DVC occurs in concert with newly emerging physiological and behavioral responses to osmotic dehydration, which inhibits gastric emptying and food intake in adult animals but not in neonates. The postnatal emergence of other intake controls might also reflect progressive engagement of DVC neural circuits, whose intrinsic components and output pathways are envisioned as being critical for initiating and terminating ingestive behavior.
Early onset obesity and type II diabetes is rapidly becoming an epidemic, especially within the United States. This dramatic increase is likely due to many factors including both prenatal and postnatal environmental cues. The purpose of this review is to highlight some of the recent advances in our knowledge of the development of the hypothalamic circuits involved in the regulation of energy balance, with a focus on the neuropeptide Y (NPY) system. Unlike the adult rat, during the postnatal period NPY is transiently expressed in several hypothalamic regions, along with the expected expression within the arcuate nucleus (ARH). These transient populations of NPY neurons during the postnatal period may provide local NPY production to sustain the necessary energy intake during this critical growth phase. This may be physiologically important since ARH-NPY projections do not fully develop until the 3rd postnatal week. The significance of this ontogeny is that many peripheral metabolic signals have little effect of feeding prior to the development of the ARH projections. The essential questions now are whether prenatal and/or postnatal exposure to high levels of insulin or leptin during development can cause permanent changes in the function of hypothalamic circuits. It is vital to understand not only the natural development of the hypothalamic circuits that regulate energy homeostasis, but also their abnormal development caused by maternal and postnatal environmental cues. This will be pivotal for designing intervention and therapeutics to treat early onset obesity/type II diabetes, which may very well need to be different from those designed to prevent/treat adult onset obesity/type II diabetes.
The aim of the present study was to investigate the effect of adjunctive olanzapine in patients with obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD) refractory to paroxetine. Twenty-one patients unresponsive to treatment with paroxetine, administered for at least 12 weeks at the dose of 60 mg/day, participated to a 12-week open-label, add-on trial with olanzapine (10 mg/day). The psychopathological state was evaluated by the Yale-Brown Obsessive-Compulsive Scale (Y-BOCS) and by Clinical Global Impression (CGI). Three patients did not complete the 12-week adjunctive treatment with olanzapine. In the 18 completers, the mean Y-BOCS score decreased significantly from 27.1+/-4.0 at baseline to 20.1+/-3.9 at final evaluation (P&lt;.001). Seven patients (38.9%) were rated as responders at final evaluation. Steady-state plasma concentrations of paroxetine were not modified during olanzapine coadministration. The drug combination was generally well tolerated and initial sedation and weight gain were the most frequent unwanted effects. Our findings confirm the results of previous studies and indicate that the addition of olanzapine to ongoing treatment with serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SRI) may be beneficial in some patients unresponsive to SRI monotherapy.
We report that a novel substance named dictyopyrone C (DPC) has remarkable effects on growth and differentiation of Dictyostelium discoideum Ax-2 cells, in a dose-dependent manner. In the presence of 3-15 microM DPC, differentiation of starving Ax-2 (clone MS) cells was greatly enhanced in submerged culture, when vegetative MS cells were harvested at the mid-late-exponential growth phase (&gt;3 x 10(6) cells per ml) and starved. In contrast, DPC above 30 microM markedly impaired the progression of differentiation including cell aggregation, most of starved cells being round after 3-4 h of DPC application and then lysed during further incubation. In the presence of 30 microM DPC however, MS cells that had been harvested at the early exponential growth phase (&lt;5 x 10(5) cells per ml) and starved became neither round nor lysed and exhibited rather enhanced differentiation. Essentially the same results were obtained in cultures of starved cells on nonnutrient agar. With respect to the DPC effect on MS cells growing in axenic medium, cell lysis and growth inhibition by DPC at concentrations higher than 15 microM were realized in the mid-late-exponential-growth-phase cells (&gt;3 x 10(6) cells per ml) but not in the early-exponential-growth-phase cells (&lt;5 x 10(5) cells per ml). Moreover, analysis using synchronized MS cells has demonstrated that the DPC effect changes in a cell-cycle-dependent manner. In contrast to such unique DPC actions, the pyrone ring of DPC had no effects on growth and differentiation within the range of 3-120 microM tested. These findings strongly suggested the importance of the combined structure of the pyrone ring and the linear carbon chain in revelation of the DPC activities.

A case is described herein of monozygotic twins discordant for schizophrenia that illustrates possible causal events of prenatal underdevelopment, morphological changes in the brain, poor premorbid functioning, and the development of schizophrenia. The affected twin was born with a birthweight of 1620 g, whereas the unaffected twin weighed 2300 g at birth. Marked differences in sociability and intelligence were observed between the twins from early childhood. Magnetic resonance imaging of the brain revealed high-intensity signals in the white matter and enlarged ventricles in the affected twin, while no such abnormality was detected in the well twin. This twin pair suggests a possibility that hypoxic brain damage associated with prenatal underdevelopment may be a causal factor for abnormalities in psychosocial development and subsequent schizophrenia.
We have earlier shown that breast cancer patients with moderately or well differentiated tumors seem to be able to inhibit stress evoked from anger in a successful manner, while those with poorer prognosis do not. We now report a study with an enlarged group of patients, investigating associations between tumor biological factors and psychological profile. 129 patients with Stages I and II breast cancer undergoing adjuvant radiation therapy were interviewed and tested with three projective personality tests assessing attitude to aggression and coping with stress and anxiety. Creative functioning was also tested. Patients with Stage I (smaller) tumors reported a &quot;fighting spirit&quot; attitude toward the disease, but they also showed depressive reaction patterns. Moreover, if the patient could successfully avoid or inhibit the stress evoked from perceiving an aggressive motif in the picture shown in the aggression test, the tumor biological situation was better. Patients who did not inhibit stress reactions on the aggression test and also on the anxiety test had a poorer tumor biological situation. Surprisingly, low speed of tumor cell proliferation (DNA S-phase fraction) correlated with high scores on the creativity test. Successful denial or inhibition of stress evoked by aggression combined with a creative, flexible attitude was associated with a better tumor biological situation.
Recently, Vecera, Behrmann, and McGoldrick (2000), using a divided-attention task, reported that targets are detected more accurately when they occur on the same structural part of an object, suggesting that attention can be directed toward object-internal features. We present converging evidence using the object-based inhibition of return (IOR) paradigm as an implicit measure of selection. The results show that IOR is attenuated when cues and targets appear on the same part of an object relative to when they are separated by a part boundary. These findings suggest that object-based mechanisms of selection can operate over shape representations that make explicit information about object-internal structure.
Recent studies examining the feedback consistency effect have been criticized for poor item selection (Peereman, Content, &amp; Bonin, 1998). In the present study, an experiment was run with a new set of items, in which feedback consistency was manipulated at a phoneme-grapheme level. The results suggested that participants responded faster to feedback-consistent words than to feedback-inconsistent words. This was despite the feedback-consistent and feedback-inconsistent word groups' being matched on many other dimensions, including word frequency and subjective orthographic frequency. These results may differ from those of previous studies, since previous studies in English have measured feedback consistency at the rime-body level.



The frequency, morbidity and complexity of neurodegenerative diseases (NDD) make them the greatest therapeutic challenge to Medicine today. These diseases are characterized by a decreased number of cells in certain neuronal populations, which is clinically reflected in the appearance of specific symptoms. In this study, we will centre our attention on the two fundamental lines of action that, from a pharmacological point of view, are available for the treatment of NDD. The first is aetiopathogenic, and is aimed at stopping cell death and promoting the recovery of cell populations. The second line is physiopathological and seeks to prevent, delay or palliate the appearance of the symptoms indicating an alteration in the levels of neurotransmitters, and its chief objective is to maintain them. Pharmacology has already provided neurologists with a wide range of tried and tested drugs, yet the results obtained in research laboratories in the last few years seem to indicate that the number of therapeutic possibilities are very likely to rise sharply in the future. Progress made in genomics and the better understanding of cellular biochemical cycles allow us to expect that this century will finally be that of the Neurosciences, and that Neurology, without losing its cognitive essence, will start to be considered to be a speciality that is as therapeutic as it is diagnostic.

The purpose of this lecture is to review the development of current neurophysiology and the revised standard of society for clinical EEG. 1. The improvement of neurophysiological tests. 1) EEG and evoked potential: EEG and evoked potential testing includes the routine EEG recording, EEG monitoring in surgical operation, all night sleep polygraph for the diagnosis of sleep apnea syndrome and many kinds of brain evoked potentials. Especially, the P300 component in the ERP(event-related evoked potential) is useful for the testing of essential brain functions. 2) EMG and evoked EMG: These tests are applied for the diagnosis of neurogenic, myogenic and neuromuscular junction disorder, and also the single fiber EMG using micro needle electrode is useful for the diagnosis of myasthenia gravis. Motor and sensory nerve conduction velocity are calculated from the latency of evoked EMGs. Furthermore, the distribution of these conduction velocities in many nerve fibers is measured by the collision technique. 3) Other tests: Near-infrared spectroscopy for the testing of brain functions has made rapid progress, and the transcranial magnetic stimulation method has come to be used for evaluation of functional diseases in the pyramidal tract, cerebellum and the spinal cord. 2. The revised JSCN technical standards for clinical EEG. The revised recording conditions of ECI(electro cerebral inactivity: flat EEG) in brain death are the focus of this lecture.
Involvement of the central nervous system in sarcoidosis arises predominantly due to infiltration of the meninges leading to pachymeningitis with cranial neuropathies, hydrocephalus, encephalopathy and hypothalamic dysfunction. Less frequently cerebral mass lesions occur, and spinal cord lesions have been reported. Involvement of the peripheral nervous system leading to radiculopathies, peripheral neuropathy and mononeuritis multiplex also occurs and muscle involvement may be difficult to diagnose until advanced stages. If neurological syndromes arise in patients with established biopsy proven systemic sarcoidosis, the diagnosis is usually easy to make, but oftentimes patients may present de novo with neurological symptoms and signs without systemic involvement. Subsequent investigations may lead on to the identification of systemic granulomata, but on other occasions these are not found; it has not yet been established what relationship such cases has to those with the systemic disorder in whom neurological complications arise.
Dopaminergic (DA) neurons in the midbrain are critically involved in several neurological-psychiatric illnesses and are specifically lost in Parkinson's disease. The DA neurons are generated through the interactions of multiple extrinsic and intrinsic factors during the embryogenesis. The identities and mechanisms of actions of a subset of these factors have recently been elucidated. The same factors have also been successfully used to induce efficient differentiation of DA neurons in vitro from embryonic stem cells or neural progenitors. These advances have far reaching scientific and medical implications.
The study is to establish the method of isolation and identification of bone marrow stromal cells and to investigate the ability of bone marrow stromal cells to accept and express TH gene. Cells were isolated by a density gradient (lymphocytes separation) and identified by BrdU labeling and fluorescence-activated cell sorting (FACS) technology using CD11b, CD45 and CD90 antibodies. TH and lacZ gene were transfected to rBMSCs with an adeno-associated virus vector. The results showed that most tightly adherent cells in the primary culture were fibroblast-like and formed foci of two to four cells. The cells in the foci remained dormant for 2 to 4 days and then began to multiply rapidly. After several passages, the adherent cells became more uniformly spindle-shaped in appearance. BrdU, indicating that BMSCs replicate actively, labeled about 74.9% of cultured cells. Data from FACS showed that about 75% of isolated cells were CD90(+)/CD45(-)/CD11b(-), which is the marker of bone marrow stromal cells. The efficiency of TH gene transfection was about 75%. BMSCs could readily be genetically engineered and could be useful delivery targets of gene therapy for Parkinson's disease.




This study, designed to evaluate a relapse prevention technique, is based on Swedish &quot;heavy&quot; social drinkers who wanted to drink less or quit completely. They were recruited by advertisement in national Swedish newspapers and were randomly assigned into a control group and a coping skill training group (treatment group). Data were collected during the period 1989-1991. Subjects in the coping skills training group were taught methods to cope with the craving for alcohol, and subjects in the control group had a conventional discussion about their problems and the future. All participants also had to set a goal to be reached after the treatment. Subjects were asked about their alcohol consumption and dependence of alcohol and other alcohol-related behaviors, before, six months, and 18 months after treatment. The coping skills training did not prove more efficient than nonspecific treatment received in the control group. Instead alcohol consumption decreased as a function of the subjects' initial goals, independent of treatment and a wish to control drinking seemed more efficient than to try to quit drinking completely.
Complex housing has been used widely as a model of experience-dependent change. Animals housed in complex environments typically show synaptogenesis throughout the sensory and motor cortex as well as the striatum and hippocampus, and thus it is generally assumed that such changes are likely to be found throughout the cerebrum. The purpose of the present study was to determine whether persistent alterations of dendritic morphology would be found in two regions that had previously not been examined, namely, the medial prefrontal region (Cg3) and nucleus accumbens (NAcc). The results show that housing female rats in complex environments for 3.5 months increased dendritic arborization on medium spiny neurons in the NAcc and on pyramidal cells in the somatosensory cortex (Par 1), but not in Cg3. Environmental complexity increased spine density in all three areas, however. The failure to find increased dendritic length or branching in Cg3 was unexpected. Thus, the data suggest that complex housing may not engage prefrontal neurons in the same manner as neurons in sensory or motor areas. It appears that complex housing may not produce generalized changes in cerebral morphology. The data further suggest that it is prudent to measure both dendritic length and spine density in studies of experience-dependent effects on synaptic plasticity.
The hippocampal region, a group of brain structures important for learning and memory, has been the focus of a large number of computational models. These tend to fall into two groups: (1) models of the role of the hippocampal region in incremental learning, which focus on the development of new representations that are sensitive to stimulus regularities and environmental context; (2) models that focus on the role of the hippocampal region in the rapid storage and retrieval of episodic memories. Rather than being in conflict, it is becoming apparent that both approaches are partially correct and might reflect the different functions of substructures of the hippocampal region. Future computational models will help to elaborate how these different substructures interact.
As long as 150 years ago, when Fritz and Hitzig demonstrated the electrical excitability of the motor cortex, scientists and fiction writers were considering the possibility of interfacing a machine with the human brain. Modern attempts have been driven by concrete technological and clinical goals. The most advanced of these has brought the perception of sound to thousands of deaf individuals by means of electrodes implanted in the cochlea. Similar attempts are underway to provide images to the visual cortex and to allow the brains of paralyzed patients to re-establish control of the external environment via recording electrodes. This review focuses on two challenges: (1) establishing a 'closed loop' between sensory input and motor output and (2) controlling neural plasticity to achieve the desired behavior of the brain-machine system. Meeting these challenges is the key to extending the impact of the brain-machine interface.
A novel photoreceptor of the mammalian retina has recently been discovered and characterized. The novel cells differ radically from the classical rod and cone photoreceptors. They use a unique photopigment, most probably melanopsin. They have lower sensitivity and spatiotemporal resolution than rods or cones and they seem specialized to encode ambient light intensity. Most surprisingly, they are ganglion cells and, thus, communicate directly with the brain. These intrinsically photosensitive retinal ganglion cells (ipRGCs) help to synchronize circadian rhythms with the solar day. They also contribute to the pupillary light reflex and other behavioral and physiological responses to environmental illumination.
Inverse agonism is emerging as a new endogenous principle for receptor regulation. Agouti-related protein (AgRP), following its release in the brain, stimulates food intake. AgRP binds to brain melanocortin receptors, which are involved in the regulation of body weight. In addition to antagonizing the effects of the melanocortin receptor agonist alpha-melanocyte-stimulating hormone (alpha-MSH), AgRP suppresses the constitutive activity of melanocortin MC(3) and MC(4) receptors, which characterizes AgRP as an inverse agonist rather than a neutral antagonist. The balance between the activity of AgRP-containing neurons and alpha-MSH-containing neurons determines the extent of activation of melanocortin receptors in neurons onto which they project. The identification of AgRP as an endogenous inverse agonist provides physiological relevance to inverse agonism in the control of body weight.
It is well known that certain spatial frequency (SF) bands are more important than others for character recognition. Solomon and Pelli [Nature 369 (1994) 395-397] have concluded that human pattern recognition mechanism is able to use only a narrow band from available SF spectrum of letters. However, the SF spectra of letters themselves have not been studied carefully. Here I report the results of an analysis of SF spectra of printed characters and discuss their relationship to the observed band-pass nature of letter recognition.
Sustained fixation of a bright coloured stimulus will, on extinction of the stimulus and continued steady fixation, induce an afterimage whose colour is complementary to that of the initial stimulus; an effect thought to be caused by fatigue of cones and/or of cone-opponent processes to different colours. However, to date, very little is known about the specific pathway that causes the coloured afterimage. Using isoluminant coloured stimuli recent studies have shown that pupil constriction is induced by onset and offset of the stimulus, the latter being attributed specifically to the subsequent emergence of the coloured afterimage. The aim of the study was to investigate how the offset pupillary constriction is generated in terms of input signals from discrete functional elements of the magno- and/or parvo-cellular pathways, which are known principally to convey, respectively, luminance and colour signals. Changes in pupil size were monitored continuously by digital analysis of an infra-red image of the pupil while observers viewed isoluminant green pulsed, ramped or luminance masked stimuli presented on a computer monitor. It was found that the amplitude of the offset pupillary constriction decreases when a pulsed stimulus is replaced by a temporally ramped stimulus and is eliminated by a luminance mask. These findings indicate for the first time that pupillary constriction associated with a coloured afterimage is mediated by the magno-cellular pathway.
A target's apparent colour is influenced by the colours in its surrounding. If the surrounding consists of a single coloured surface, the influence is a shift 'away' from the surface's colour. If the surface is more than 1 degrees from the target area the shift is very small. If there are many surfaces, then not only the average luminance and chromaticity of the surfaces matters, but also the chromatic variability. It is not yet clear whether it makes any difference where the chromatic variability is within the scene, so we constructed stimuli in which the chromatic variability was restricted to certain regions. We found that it made very little difference where the chromatic variability was located. The extent to which the average colour of nearby surfaces influences the apparent colour of the target seems to depend on the average chromatic variability of the whole scene.

When female mice are mated, they form a memory of the pheromonal signal of the male with which they mated. Our research objective was to determine the neural mechanisms underlying learning and memory by employing a convenient model of pheromone-induced olfactory memory (pheromonal memory). Formation of pheromonal memory depends on the association between mating and exposure to pheromones. Synaptic plasticity involving this memory occurs in the accessory olfactory bulb (AOB), depending on vaginocervical stimulation at mating. The vaginocervical stimulation at mating reduces the dendrodendritic feedback inhibition of principal neurons (mitral/tufted (MT) cells) in the AOB and enhances their cell activity. The enhancement of activity induces on these plastic changes in dendrodendritic synapses, which in turn enhance GABA-mediated inhibition of MT cell activity. This &quot;self-inhibition&quot; of MT cells activity in response to pheromonal signals of the partner can disrupt its signals at the AOB thereby preventing the signals from reaching the central brain. The formation and maintenance of pheromonal memory is based on this inhibition mechanism.

Electrocardiographic responses were assessed in conscious rabbits when the nasopharyngeal reflex was elicited by inhalation of formaldehyde vapour. There was a profound fall in heart rate (224+/-5 to 64+/-4 beats per min (bpm)) associated with abnormal or absent P-waves. There were no changes in the QRS complex. The R-T interval (control value 118+/-4 ms) was initially shortened to 107+/-3 ms and then prolonged to 130+/-4 ms. Heart rate and P-wave changes were prevented by muscarinic cholinergic blockade with methylscopolamine. The R-T shortening was reduced by 79+/-4% by beta-adrenergic blockade with propranolol. Methylscopolamine also unmasked small tachycardic responses (5-25 bpm) in 5/7 animals. This tachycardia was prevented by propranolol. Thus both parasympathetic vagal cardiac nerves and sympathetic cardiac nerves are activated during the nasopharyngeal reflex, with increased vagal effects in the sino-atrial node, and increased sympathetic effects in the ventricular myocardium.
In this report we show that dextromethorphan, a non-opioid cough suppressant, prevents the neurodegeneration of dopaminergic neurons in the substantia nigra of mice treated with diethyldithiocarbamate (DDC) and 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP). This effect is further substantiated by the assessment of dopamine (DA) content in the striatum of these animals. Dextromethorphan does not attenuate the striatal DA fall induced by MPTP alone but completely prevents DDC-induced enhancement after the combined treatment. Moreover, a study of DA metabolites has confirmed this neuroprotective property. The striatal levels of serotonin, which were studied as a control neuronal marker, did not change with any of the treatments administered. Furthermore, we show that dextromethorphan reduces the toxicity of glutamate against dopamine neurons in mesencephalic cell cultures. In line with previous data suggesting that dextromethorphan can prevent neuronal damage, our observations supply new evidence regarding the possibility of this compound being of therapeutic use in neurodegenerative diseases.
Sardinian alcohol-preferring (sP) and non-preferring (sNP) rats were studied to ascertain whether some behavioral and/or neurochemical traits, beyond ethanol preference, differentiated the two lines. Spontaneous reactivity of Wistar, sP and sNP rats to aversive or pleasurable stimuli was examined in an avoidance test, an elevated plus maze test, and in response to palatable food presentation. As the mesocorticolimbic dopaminergic system plays a relevant role in the response to rewarding or aversive stimuli, extraneuronal dopamine levels and cocaine-induced dopamine accumulation in the nucleus accumbens shell (NAcS) and medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC) were studied by microdialysis in the three groups of rats. Moreover, rats were exposed to repeated unavoidable stress and their avoidance response and NAcS dopamine output were determined. Finally, the capacity of sP, sNP, and Wistar rats to learn a palatable food-sustained appetitive behavior was studied. The present study shows that, beyond ethanol preference, there are several behavioral and neurochemical distinctions between sP and sNP rats. The sP rats displayed an increased level of anxiety-like behavior and sNP rats showed a reduced avoidance of noxious stimuli, compared to Wistar rats. Moreover, in the NAcS and PFC, extraneuronal dopamine levels were higher in sP rats and lower in sNP rats compared to Wistar rats; cocaine-induced dopamine accumulation in the NAcS was higher in sP rats than in sNP and Wistar rats. However, sP and sNP rats showed a similar behavioral and neurochemical response to chronic unavoidable stress. Interestingly, they also showed similar behavioral and neurochemical responses to a natural rewarding stimulus and a similar ability to learn an appetitive behavior.
An abundance of physiological data suggests an interaction between neuropeptide Y (NPY) and corticotropin-releasing hormone (CRH) in the regulation of endocrine and autonomic functions. Previously, studies in our laboratory have indicated that NPY neurons in the arcuate nucleus of the hypothalamus (ARH) project to and come in close contact with CRH neurons in the paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus (PVH). Conversely, it has been demonstrated that the ventromedial portion of the ARH, an area containing NPY neurons, displays CRH receptor binding and CRH receptor mRNA. These data suggest a possible reciprocal feedback regulation between NPY and CRH neurons. The ARH also contains several other populations of neurons that may be targets of the CRH system and express CRH receptors; most notable are tuberoinfundibular dopaminergic neurons (TIDA). The PVH is an important component in the regulation of prolactin secretion and may play a role in the suppression of TIDA activity, which is a critical step in the prolactin stress response. The purpose of the present study was to characterize the distribution and cellular localization of CRH R(1) receptor-like immunoreactivity (CRH R(1)-ir) in the rat hypothalamus and to determine the phenotype of neurons in the ARH that contain CRH R(1)-ir. CRH R(1)-ir was present throughout the rat brain. Hypothalamic regions with the highest levels of immunostaining were the supraoptic nucleus, magnocellular PVH, ARH, and suprachiasmatic nucleus. Double label immunofluorescence was used to demonstrate that CRH R(1)-ir in the ARH was localized to NPY cell bodies. Furthermore, TIDA neurons in the ARH also displayed CRH R(1)-ir. However, despite an abundance of CRH R(1)-ir cells in the ARH, CRH-ir fiber innervation to the ARH was extremely sparse. Therefore, although this study provides neuroanatomical evidence for direct CRH R(1) regulation of ARH NPY and TIDA neurons in the rat, it is not consistent with the idea of a reciprocal feedback loop and suggests the involvement of other CRH-like ligands, such as urocortin.
We analyse some of the most important anatomical and functional features emerging at different stages of mammalian brain evolution in terms of a possible computational advantage. At the transition from reptiles to mammals, a major anatomical change occurs in the originally sensory dorsal cortex. The principal layer of pyramidal cells is split by the insertion of a new layer of granule cells, giving rise to the laminated isocortex. It has been hypothesized that this qualitative change in the evolution of mammalian brains is necessary to support fine topography in their sensory maps. The simulation of neural network models demonstrates that a nonlaminated patch of cortex must compromise between transmitting &quot;where&quot; information, explicitly mapped, topographically, on the cortical sheet, and retrieving &quot;what&quot; information, represented by the distributed firing pattern across neurons. The differentiation of a granular layer is shown in the model to yield a small quantitative advantage, allowing to transmit a slightly better combination of both information types. Along the same theoretical lines, we are investigating the multiplication of successive sensory areas coding for ever more composite stimuli, such as those in the visual and auditory temporal cortices in primates. In particular we analyse the possible computational advantage for a specific neural population devoted to encode the complex structure of whole stimuli, rather than relying on the coactivation of separate populations encoding their basic elements.
Most sensory systems are active, in the sense that the animal performs specific motor actions in order to collect information of interest-signals are not merely passively received. We, therefore, expect cortical development to depend not only correct sensory experience, but also on correct motor experience. In this study, we used the rat whisker system as a model to compare the importance of these factors. In one group of animals, we trimmed all whiskers starting from post-natal day 8 (P8). In a second group, we left the whiskers intact, but prevented &quot;whisking&quot; by sectioning the facial (VIIth cranial) nerve on P8. The first group had severely disrupted sensory experience but normal motor patterns (&quot;whisker-cut&quot; rats); the second group had normal sensory pathways within which temporal activity patterns were disrupted by motor impairment (&quot;nerve-cut&quot; rats). When they reached 3 months of age, we recorded multi-unit responses from the infragranular layers of primary somatosensory cortex in response to deflection of either single whiskers or pairs of whiskers in order to compare these two groups to a third group of rats that had normal sensory and motor experience. Cortical topographic organization was unaltered in whisker- and nerve-cut rats. Whisker-cut rats showed a smaller than normal difference between the response magnitudes for the principal and surrounding whiskers, as well as stronger than normal interactions between co-active whisker inputs. Responses in nerve-cut rats were nearly indistinguishable from those in normal animals. Thus, unexpectedly, neither pure sensory nor sensorimotor deprivation caused gross functional disruption of SI according to our measures. It appears that abnormal sensory experience leads to alterations in the fine-tuning of cortical properties, but cortex is unexpectedly resistant to the effects of abnormal sensory and sensorimotor experience.
Genetic and epigenetic factors may alter the normal development of cerebral cortex, producing laminar and cellular abnormalities and heterotopiae, major causes of juvenile, drug-resistant epilepsy. Experimentally-induced migration disorders provide interesting insights in the mechanisms of the determination of neuronal phenotype and connectivity, of congenital cortical dysgenesis and the pathophysiology of associated neurological disorders, such as epilepsy. We investigated the effects of E14 administration of methylazoxymethanol acetate (MAM), which induces microencephaly by ablating dividing cells. Brains from newborn and adult rats were reacted for NADPH-d and CO histochemistry. Moreover, callosally-projecting neurons were retrogradely labeled with DiI at P9 or with BDA in adults. MAM-treated rats displayed a remarkable reduction in cortical thickness, mainly due to reduction in layer IV and in supragranular layers. Heterotopic nodules appeared in the supragranular layers and in the hippocampus. CO-positive barrels in somatosensory cortex were almost absent. The distribution of NADPH-d-positive neurons was regular, but they were rare in heterotopic nodules. Callosally-projecting neurons displayed abnormal orientation of the apical dendrite and increase in the basal dendritic length. Alterations in the dendritic arborization of pyramidal neurons may be one of the substrates for the increased sensitivity to drugs which induce epileptic seizures in these animals.
The presenilins and nicastrin form high molecular mass, multimeric protein complexes involved in the intramembranous proteolysis of several proteins. Post-translational glycosylation and trafficking of nicastrin is necessary for the activity of these complexes. We report here that although there are differences in the post-translational processing of nicastrin in neurons and glia, both of the presenilins are required for the physiological post-translational modification and for the correct subcellular distribution of nicastrin. Absence of presenilin 1 (PS1) is associated with dramatic reductions in the level of mature glycosylated nicastrin and with redistribution of nicastrin away from the cell surface. In contrast, absence of presenilin 2 (PS2) is associated with only modest reductions in the levels of immature nicastrin. It is notable that these differential effects parallel the differential effects of null mutations in PS1 and PS2 on APP and Notch processing. Our data therefore suggest that the differential interactions of PS1 and PS2 with nicastrin reflect different functions for the PS1 and PS2 complexes.
The 27-kDa heat shock protein (HSP27) has a potent ability to increase cell survival in response to a wide range of cellular challenges. In order to investigate the mode of action of HSP27 in vivo, we have developed transgenic lines, which express human HSP27 at high levels throughout the brain, spinal cord, and other tissues. In view of the particular property of HSP27 compared with other HSPs to protect neurons against apoptosis, we have tested these transgenic lines in a well established in vivo model of neurotoxicity produced by kainic acid, where apoptotic cell death occurs. Our results demonstrate for the first time the marked protective effects of HSP27 overexpression in vivo, which significantly reduces kainate-induced seizure severity and mortality rate (&gt;50%) in two independent lines and markedly reduces neuronal cell death in the CA3 region of hippocampus. This reduced seizure severity in HSP27 transgenic animals was associated with a marked attenuation of caspase 3 induction and apoptotic features. These studies clearly demonstrate that HSP27 has a major neuroprotective effect in the central nervous system in keeping with its properties demonstrated in culture and highlight an early stage in the cell death pathway that is affected by HSP27.
The unique nature of vestibular otoconia as calcium carbonate biominerals makes them particularly susceptible to chemical deformation during histological processing. We fixed and stored otoconia from all three otolith endorgans of embryonic, hatchling and adult Japanese quail in glutaraldehyde containing either phosphate or non-phosphate buffers for varying lengths of time and processed them for scanning electron microscopy. Otoconia from all age groups and otolith endorgans processed in 0.1 M phosphate buffer (pH 7.4) showed abnormal surface morphology when compared to acetone fixed controls. Otoconia processed in 0.1 M sodium cacodylate or HEPES buffered artificial endolymph (pH 7.4) showed normal morphology that was similar to controls. The degree of otoconial deformation was directly related to the time exposed to phosphate buffer. Short duration exposure produced particulate deformations while longer exposures resulted in fused otoconia that formed solid sheets. Otoconial surface deformation and fusing was independent of the glutaraldehyde component of the histological processing. These findings should help vestibular researchers to develop appropriate histological processing protocols in future studies of otoconia.
Low-power photographs of brain sections have been needed for neuroanatomical studies. This paper describes a setup for fluorescence digital photomacrography. High-resolution digital images were obtained with commercially available digital cameras combined with an oblique fluorescence illumination and filters for excitation and emission. The image of an entire coronal section of the macaque brain could be taken with a single exposure. The present photographic system would be useful not only for neuroanatomical, but also for histological, embryological or pathological studies that require low-magnification fluorescence images.
Targeted tumorigenesis in transgenic mice has been a powerful tool for the study of gene expression and oncogenesis, as well as for the production of differentiated immortal cell lines from rare cell types. Follicle-stimulating hormone (FSH) is secreted by the gonadotrope cells of the anterior pituitary gland and plays a pivotal role in mammalian reproduction. Here we have used the regulatory region of the ovine FSH beta gene to direct expression of the SV40 T antigen oncogene to gonadotrope cells in the pituitary of transgenic mice. Two of five transgenic mouse lines bearing this fusion gene rapidly developed pituitary tumors, with appearance of adenomatous foci as early as 6 weeks of age, resulting in death by 12 weeks of age in both genders. Histologic examination of tumor development over time revealed that increases in cell proliferation and dysplasia were accompanied by decreases in synthesis of pituitary hormones, indicating dedifferentiation of the pituitary cells. Histological features observed in these tumors were in agreement with this rapid transformation of cell phenotype. Tumors were multifocal in origin, and the most highly transformed cell types observed consisted of giant pale basophilic cells with enormous hyperploid nuclei associated with infiltrating neuronal-like cells, which were very abundant at later stages of tumor development. Mitotic indices were much higher in transgenic than wild-type pituitaries, as expected. Morphologic analysis of the gonads of these transgenic mice showed no major developmental differences, as compared to wild-type littermates, however the length of the seminiferous tubules in transgenic males was greater than age-matched wild-type animals. Despite this phenotype difference, both genders were fertile, with normal sperm development observed in males and normal estrous cycle stages in females. Moreover, while 8 -- 10-week-old transgenic males had much lower blood levels of FSH than littermates, transgenic female FSH levels were the same as those of wild-type females. These animals offer a unique and potentially useful model of organ-specific tumorigenesis, where a multistage pathway of tumor development is evident, both histologically and temporally. Study of such models will advance our knowledge on the physiological and molecular mechanisms involved in gene expression as well as tumor formation.
The aim of the study was to investigate cognitive impairment in major depression both acutely and after 6 months. All patients were investigated within a neurocognitive experimental setting at two testing sessions: at inclusion and after 6 months. Automatic and effortful information processing was investigated with a visual search paradigm. Twenty-one patients with recurrent major depression according to DSM-IV and a Hamilton Depression Rating Scale score &gt;18 were included in the study. Healthy subjects, matched for age and gender, were used as a control group. The results showed that the depressed patients performed equal to the control group on trials requiring automatic information processing at both sessions. However, the patients were impaired compared to the control group on trials requiring effortful information processing, also at both sessions. The depressed patients showed no improvement in cognitive performance from test 1 to test 2. The results indicate that the depressed patients had an impaired performance for effortful, but not automatic, visual search performance, and that the impairment remained after 6 months, despite significant improvement in their depression scores.
The neuropeptide oxytocin is produced in the hypothalamus and released centrally and peripherally in response to serotonergic stimulation. Plasma oxytocin levels may be a candidate as a biological index of serotonergic function in response to pharmacological challenge by serotonergic agents. Fourteen male healthy subjects underwent a placebo challenge and a D-fenfluramine (D-FEN) (0.5 mg/kg) challenge on different days. Serial plasma oxytocin and prolactin levels were measured on each challenge day. D-FEN was associated with an increase in both oxytocin and prolactin. Plasma oxytocin may function as an index of central serotonin (5-HT) function in human subjects. Since oxytocin is released directly from limbic-hypothalamic cells, this response presumably represents a direct central assessment of 5-HT response in limbic-hypothalamus. Further work will determine if the oxytocin response to 5-HT pharmaco-challenge, by virtue of its central origin, is more highly related to measures of psychopathology (e.g. aggression) than that of less central outcome parameters of 5-HT responsiveness (e.g. prolactin).
Neurotrophic molecules, released by neurons and neural target tissues, play a pivotal role in regulating neuronal development and plasticity. This article reviews recent work demonstrating the pivotal role of two such molecules, brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) and glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF), in the growth and maturation of respiratory neurons and the expression of normal ventilatory behavior. Although BDNF and GDNF are structurally dissimilar and signal through wholly distinct receptors, they are both required for development of peripheral chemoafferent neurons that provide hypoxic drive to the brainstem respiratory network. Studies of genetically engineered mice carrying targeted deletions in the genes encoding BDNF and GDNF, as well as genetic linkage analysis in humans, indicate that these trophic molecules may be candidate genes for human developmental disorders of breathing.
Acute exposure to ethanol has been shown to inhibit the function of N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptors (NMDAR). However, the mechanism by which ethanol produces inhibition of NMDAR and the factors that modulate this effect are not completely understood. Nitric oxide (NO) is an important modulator of NMDAR function in the hippocampus. Therefore, we examined the effects of NO donors on the ethanol-induced inhibition of NMDAR. Primary cultures of hippocampal neurons were prepared from postnatal day 3 rats. After 7 days in culture, NMDAR currents were recorded by using whole-cell patch-clamp electrophysiological techniques. Effects of acute exposure to ethanol on these currents were assessed in the absence and presence of NO donors. We found that the NO donors 1-hydroxy-2-oxo-3-(N-ethyl-2-aminoethyl)-e-ethyl-1-triazene (NOC-12, 100 microM) and S-nitroso-N-acetyl-D,L-penicillamine (SNAP, 500 microM) inhibit currents gated by 100 microM NMDA plus 0.5 microM glycine. The inhibitory effect of NOC-12 on NMDAR currents could not be observed when 100 microM of the NO scavenger 2-phenyl-4,4,5,5-tetramethylimidazoline-1-oxyl-3-oxide (PTIO) was present. Importantly, it was found that ethanol inhibits NMDAR responses to a significantly lesser extent in the presence of these donors. Ethanol (65 mM) inhibited NMDAR responses by 42+/-2%. In the presence of NOC-12 or SNAP, ethanol inhibited NMDAR responses by 21+/-4% and 11+/-7%, respectively. The effect of NOC-12 on ethanol's actions on NMDAR currents was blocked by PTIO. Our results suggest that NO is a novel modulator of the acute effects of ethanol on NMDAR function.
Disorders of lysosomal metabolism often involve the accumulation of specific types of glycolipid, particularly gangliosides, because of either degradative failure or other currently unknown mechanisms. Although the precise role of gangliosides in cells remains enigmatic, the presence of specific abnormalities secondary to ganglioside accumulation in lysosomal diseases has suggested important biological functions. Chief among these is the growth of new dendrites on particular classes of mature neurons secondary to an increase in GM2 ganglioside. That GM2 has also been shown to be elevated in normal immature neurons coincident with dendritic sprouting provides a compelling argument that this ganglioside plays a role in dendritic initiation. This discovery has led to the search for other regulators of dendritic differentiation that may in some way be linked to the expression and/or function of GM2 ganglioside. Principal candidates that have emerged include tyrosine kinase receptors, small GTPases and calcium/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II. Understanding the mechanism underlying ectopic dendritogenesis in lysosomal diseases can be expected to generate significant insight into the control of dendritic plasticity in normal brain. The detrimental aspects of ganglioside accumulation in storage diseases as well as the potential link between gangliosides and dendritogenesis also provide a strong rationale for developing pharmacological means to manipulate ganglioside expression in neurons.

Whether the neuronal encoding of number is linear or logarithmic divides cognitive neuroscientists working on mathematical cognition. Recordings from the prefrontal cortex of the monkey support the logarithmic hypothesis. Similarities between number and the coding of other quantities are also beginning to become apparent.
Under natural conditions, shifts of spatial attention are often followed by matching eye movement. Recent evidence suggests that this close coupling is reflected in the ability of the same cortical area to shift eye position and the locus of attention.
Autapses--synapses made by a neuron onto itself--have often been observed anatomically in vivo, but their purpose has remained uncertain. A recent paper describes functional autapses in the cerebral cortex and gives clues to their physiological role.
Attention can modulate sensitivity to local stimuli in early vision. But, can attention also modulate integration of local stimuli into global visual patterns? We recently measured effects of attention on the phenomenon of lateral interactions between collinear elements, commonly thought to reflect long-range mechanisms in early visual cortex underlying contour integration. We showed improved detection of low-contrast central Gabor targets in the context of collinear flankers, but only when the collinear flankers were attended for a secondary task rather than ignored in favor of an orthogonal flanker pair. Here, we contrast two hypotheses for how attention might modulate flanker influences on the target: by changing just local sensitivity to the flankers themselves (flanker-modulation-only hypothesis), or by weighting integrative connections between flanker and target (connection-weighting hypothesis). Modeled on the known nonlinear dependence of target visibility on collinear flanker contrast, the first hypothesis predicts that an increase in physical flanker contrast should readily offset any reduction in their effective contrast when ignored, thus eliminating attentional modulation. Conversely, the second hypothesis predicts that attentional modulation should persist even for the highest flanker contrasts. Our results showed the latter outcome and indicated that attention modulates flanker-target integration, rather than just processing of local flanker elements.



d-serine has been proposed as an endogenous modulator of N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA) receptors in many brain regions, but its presence and function in the vertebrate retina have not been characterized. We have detected d-serine and its synthesizing enzyme, serine racemase, in the retinas of several vertebrate species, including salamanders, rats, and mice and have localized both constituents to Mller cells and astrocytes, the two major glial cell types in the retina. Physiological studies in rats and salamanders demonstrated that, in retinal ganglion cells, d-serine can enhance excitatory currents elicited by the application of NMDA, as well as the NMDA receptor component of light-evoked synaptic responses. Application of d-amino acid oxidase, which degrades d-serine, reduced the magnitude of NMDA receptor-mediated currents, raising the possibility that endogenous d-serine serves as a ligand for setting the sensitivity of NMDA receptors under physiological conditions. These observations raise exciting new questions about the role of glial cells in regulating the excitability of neurons through release of d-serine.
Hypoxic-ischemic brain injury in premature infants results in cerebral white matter lesions with prominent oligodendroglial injury and loss, a disorder termed periventricular leukomalacia (PVL). We have previously shown that glutamate receptors mediate hypoxic-ischemic injury to oligodendroglial precursor cells (OPCs) in a model of PVL in the developing rodent brain. We used primary OPC cultures to examine the mechanism of cellular toxicity induced by oxygen-glucose deprivation (OGD) to simulate brain ischemia. OPCs were more sensitive to OGD-induced toxicity than mature oligodendrocytes, and OPC toxicity was attenuated by nonselective [2,3-dihydroxy-6-nitro-7-sulfamoylbenzo[f]quinoxaline (NBQX), 6-cyano-7-nitroquinoxaline-2,3-dione], alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionic acid (AMPA)-preferring (GYKI 52466), kainate-preferring (gamma-d-glutamylaminomethanesulfonic acid), or Ca2+-permeable AMPA/kainate receptor antagonists (joro spider toxin, JSTx) administered either during or after OGD. Furthermore, NBQX or JSTx blocked OGD-induced Ca2+ influx. Relevant to recurrent hypoxic-ischemic insults in developing white matter, we examined the effects of sublethal OGD preconditioning. A prior exposure of OPCs to sublethal OGD resulted in enhanced vulnerability to subsequent excitotoxic or OGD-induced injury associated with an increased Ca2+ influx. AMPA/kainate receptor blockade with NBQX or JSTx either during or after sublethal OGD prevented its priming effect. Furthermore, OGD preconditioning resulted in a down-regulation of the AMPA receptor subunit GluR2 on cell surface that increased Ca2+ permeability of the receptors. Overall, these data suggest that aberrantly enhanced activation of Ca2+-permeable AMPA/kainate receptors may be a major mechanism in acute and repeated hypoxic-ischemic injury to OPCs in disorders of developing cerebral white matter, such as PVL.
Kainate receptors (KA-Rs) are members of the glutamate-gated family of ionotropic receptors, which also includes N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA) and alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methylisoxazole-4-propionate (AMPA) receptors. KA-Rs are important modulators of interneuron excitability in the CA1 region of the hippocampus. Activation of these receptors enhances interneuron firing, which robustly increases spontaneous inhibitory postsynaptic currents in pyramidal neurons. We report here that ethanol (EtOH) potently inhibits this KA-R-mediated effect at concentrations as low as those that can be achieved in blood after the ingestion of just 1-2 drinks (5-10 mM). Pressure application of kainate, in the presence of AMPA and NMDA receptor antagonists, evoked depolarizing responses in interneurons that triggered repetitive action potential firing. EtOH potently inhibited these responses to a degree that was sufficient to abolish action potential firing. This effect appears to be specific for KA-Rs, as EtOH did not affect action potential firing triggered by AMPA receptor-mediated depolarizing responses. Importantly, EtOH inhibited interneuron action potential firing in response to KA-R activation by synaptically released glutamate, suggesting that our findings are physiologically relevant. KA-R-dependent modulation of glutamate release onto pyramidal neurons was not affected by EtOH. Thus, EtOH increases excitability of pyramidal neurons indirectly by inhibiting the KA-R-dependent drive of gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA)ergic interneurons. We postulate that this effect may explain, in part, some of the paradoxical excitatory actions of this widely abused substance. The excitatory actions of EtOH may be perceived as positive by some individuals, which could contribute to the development of alcoholism.
Retinal circadian oscillators regulate many aspects of retinal function. Investigations of these oscillators and the biochemical cascades that entrain them would be greatly facilitated if experimental paradigms could be identified that permit long-term monitoring of retinal circadian oscillator function in vitro. The purpose of this study was to determine if chicken retinas maintained in explant culture conditions could serve in this capacity. Retinal circadian oscillator function was studied by monitoring iodopsin transcription under cyclic light, constant dark, and following reversal of the light cycle. Rhythms observed in the explant cultures were compared to those observed in retinas of embryos (in ovo) and post-hatch chickens. Robust iodopsin transcript rhythms were observed for up to 9 days in explant cultures maintained under cyclic light. These rhythms persisted for 48 h in constant darkness and the time course for re-entrainment of the rhythm to a reversed light/dark cycle was similar to that observed in post-hatch chicken retinas. These results show that circadian oscillators located within the retina play a key role in the regulation of iodopsin transcription in retinal explant cultures and in retinas of post-hatch chickens. Interestingly, our data show that iodopsin transcription in retinas of intact embryos is primarily, if not entirely, driven by light. These results show that the circadian oscillators driving iodopsin transcription in embryonic retinal explant cultures exhibit functional characteristics similar to those found in post-hatch chicken retina, supporting use of this paradigm in further studies of entrainment of these oscillators in retina.
Small GTPases are monomeric guanine nucleotide binding proteins of 20-25 kDa mass. Rho GTPases belong to the Ras superfamily of small GTPases. The small GTPases of the Rho family have been shown to participate in the organisation of the actin cytoskeleton and signal transduction pathways leading to gene transcription. Recent evidence suggests that Rho family GTPases may play an important role in synaptic communication in the brain, and particularly in synatic plasticity. In this study the distribution of RhoA, RhoB, RhoG, Cdc42, and Rac1 was investigated in hippocampal and cerebellar tissue of adult rat brain using immunohistochemical techniques. Previous studies suggest that distribution of Rho family mRNA is uniform throughout these structures. Here we provide evidence for differences in expression of these proteins between different regions of the hippocampus, and between the molecular and granular layers in the cerebellum. These differences may prove important with regard to the physiological functions of Rho family GTPases.
Neurotrophins are critical for neuronal development, plasticity, and survival. Ethanol affects these processes. We tested the hypothesis that ethanol inhibits nerve growth factor (NGF)-stimulated gene expression. Dissociated cultures of fetal cortical neurons were treated with NGF and/or ethanol. NGF sustained cell viability and reduced the incidence of terminal uridylated nick-end labeling and pyknosis. Ethanol eliminated these effects and induced neuronal death. Differential display of mRNA showed that one gene fragment (245 bp) was expressed by cells treated with NGF alone; ethanol blocked its expression. This fragment, named neg (nerve growth factor-stimulated, ethanol-depressed gene), has high nucleotide identity with genes from human myeloid cells and murine lymphocytes. Ribonuclease protection assay and in situ hybridization verified NGF upregulation and ethanol antagonism. Thus, ethanol specifically alters the expression of a gene that appears to be involved in NGF-mediated neuroprotection.
Retrograde labeling was combined with cytochemistry to investigate phenotypic differences in primary afferent neurons relaying sensory information from deep and superficial craniofacial tissues. Calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP), substance P (SP), somatostatin (SOM) immunoreactivity and isolectin IB4, and cholera toxin B (ChTB) binding were examined for trigeminal masticatory muscle and cutaneous afferent neurons. Somata labeled from muscle were larger than cutaneous afferent neurons. Muscle afferent neurons exhibited positive staining as follows: 22% CGRP, 5% SP, 0% SOM; 18% ChTB, 5% IB4. The somata of CGRP- and SP-positive muscle afferent neurons were smaller than that of the overall muscle afferent population. Size differences were not detected between IB4- or ChTB-binding muscle afferent neurons and the total muscle afferent population. The following distribution was found for cutaneous afferent neurons: 26% CGRP, 7% SP, 1% SOM, 26% ChTB, 44% IB4. Cutaneous afferent neurons positive for SP were smaller, while ChTB-binding cutaneous afferents were larger than the overall cutaneous afferent population. No size differences were found between cutaneous CGRP-, SOM-, or IB4-positive neurons and the total cutaneous afferent population. Target-specific differences exist for SOM and IB4. The percentage of cutaneous afferent neurons positive for SOM and IB4 exceeds that for SOM- or IB4-positive muscle afferents. The number of retrogradely labeled neurons never differed between sexes. The percentage of retrogradely labeled muscle afferent neurons that were CGRP-positive was greater in males than females. These data indicate the presence of phenotypic, target, and sex differences in trigeminal ganglion primary afferent neurons.
Injections of rhodamine-B into the dorsal raphe nucleus (DRN) and Fluoro-Gold into the lateral geniculate nucleus (LGN) revealed double-labeled retinal ganglion cells (DL RGCs) projecting to both nuclei. The soma-size distribution of DL RGCs was compared with three other distributions: DRN-projecting RGCs, LGN-projecting RGCs, and a large sample of RGCs labeled via the optic nerve with DiI. DL RGC soma diameters fell primarily within the mid-to-upper size range of all three distributions. DL RGCs may provide information to both nuclei concerning comparable aspects of light and visual stimulation via collateralized axons.
The scarcity of mouse models for relapse to cocaine seeking has curtailed the study of genetic factors that may contribute to susceptibility for drug relapse. To contribute to the development of a new mouse model of drug relapse, C57BL/6 (B6) mice were trained to press a lever for infusions of cocaine (0.35 mg/kg, i.v.) on a fixed ratio 1 schedule of reinforcement during daily 2-h sessions. A light+tone stimulus complex was presented simultaneously with each cocaine infusion. Mice then underwent a series of extinction sessions during which lever presses had no scheduled consequences. As a result, lever pressing gradually declined. In experiment 1, the ability of the cocaine-paired light+tone stimulus complex to reinstate extinguished cocaine-seeking behavior (i.e. non-reinforced responses) was assessed. In experiment 2, the ability of cocaine priming (0, 1, 2.5, 5, 10, 20, and 40 mg/kg, i.p.) to reinstate cocaine-seeking behavior was measured. B6 mice failed to reinstate in response to i.p. cocaine priming; however, they exhibited robust conditioned stimulus-induced reinstatement. These findings suggest that conditioned stimulus-induced reinstatement in B6 mice is a promising model to study genetic and neurobiological factors that alter the ability of cocaine-paired stimuli to elicit relapse to cocaine seeking behavior.
It has been suggested that long-term potentiation (LTP) of dorsal horn neurons is a phenomenon that contributes to the development of chronic neuropathic pain. Spinal cord stimulation (SCS) may be an effective tool in alleviating such pain. The aim of this electrophysiological study in rats was to examine if SCS suppresses LTP of dorsal horn wide dynamic range (WDR) neurons. Increased knowledge of the mechanisms behind the effects of SCS may facilitate its further advancement and improve clinical efficacy. As previously shown, intensive, high-frequency electrical stimulation of the sciatic nerve in the rat induces an increased firing response of WDR neurons. Here we report that SCS gradually reduced this increased C-fiber response back to the baseline level. However, A-fiber responses were neither potentiated by the conditioning stimulus used nor were they affected by SCS. These data suggest that SCS affects the C-fiber component of dorsal horn central sensitization which is noteworthy since SCS, based on previous studies, is believed to primarily influence A-fiber functions.
Lipopolysaccharide (LPS), a component of the cell wall of Gram-negative bacteria, has been shown to induce profound changes both peripherally and centrally. It has recently been reported that intraperitoneal injection of LPS inhibited long term potentiation (LTP) in perforant path-granule cell synapses and that this effect was coupled with an increase in the concentration of the proinflammatory cytokine, interleukin-1 beta (IL-1 beta). The LPS-induced effects were abrogated by inhibition of caspase-1, suggesting that IL-1 beta may mediate the effects of LPS. Here we report that the inhibition of LTP induced by LPS and IL-1 beta was coupled with stimulation of the stress-activated protein kinase p38 in hippocampus and entorhinal cortex and that this effect was abrogated by the p38 inhibitor SB203580, while the effect of LPS was markedly attenuated in C57BL/6 IL-1RI-/- mice. The data also indicate that activation of the transcription factor, nuclear factor kappa B (NF kappa B), may play a role, since the inhibitory effect of LPS and IL-1 beta on LTP was attenuated by the NF kappa B inhibitor, SN50; consistently, LPS and IL-1 beta led to activation of NF kappa B in entorhinal cortex. We suggest that one consequence of these LPS and IL-1 beta-induced changes is a compromise in glutamate release in dentate gyrus, which was coupled with the inhibition of LTP. The evidence is consistent with the idea that the LPS-induced impairment in LTP is mediated by IL-1 beta and is a consequence of activation of p38.
Microglia are believed to participate in the mediation of neurodegeneration through producing a variety of cytotoxic factors upon activation. Pharmacological intervention in microglial activation may therefore exert a neuroprotective effect. In exploring pharmacological agents that can affect microglial activation, we found in this study that triptolide possesses a powerful inhibitory influence over microglia. Pretreatment with triptolide was able to dose-dependently reduce the lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-induced nitrite accumulation and tumor necrosis factor-alpha and interleukin-1beta release from LPS-activated microglia as revealed by Griess reaction and ELISA, respectively. Triptolide reduced LPS-stimulated mRNA expression of all three inflammatory factors. The results obtained from this study demonstrate that triptolide can inhibit inflammatory responses of microglia to inflammatory stimulation via a mechanism involving the inhibition of the synthesis and release of inflammatory factors.
Multiple nucleoside transport systems exist in the body yet the subtypes functional at the blood-brain barrier (BBB) have not been fully investigated. We have employed RBE4 immortalised rat brain endothelial cells to functionally identify the carrier subtypes involved in nucleoside transfer between blood and brain. Uptake in RBE4 cells was partially sodium dependent, indicating the presence of both equilibrative and concentrative systems. Uptake of adenosine via equilibrative transporters was sensitive to nitro-benzylmercaptopurine riboside, which showed biphasic inhibition. Uptake of [3H]-adenosine via concentrative transporters was studied using the subtype-specific inhibitors thymidine (cit), formycin-B (cif) and tubercidin (cib) and was significantly reduced by thymidine and formycin-B but not by tubercidin. This study suggests that nucleoside transport at the in situ BBB may be mediated by ei and es equilibrative transporters and by cit and cif concentrative transporters.
An abnormal sense of agency is among the most characteristic yet perplexing positive symptoms of schizophrenia. Schizophrenics may either attribute the consequences of their own actions to the intentions of others (delusions of influence), or may perceive themselves as causing events which they do not in fact control (megalomania). Previous reports have often described inaccurate agency judgements in schizophrenia, but have not identified the disordered neural mechanisms or psychological processes underlying these judgements. We report the perceived time of a voluntary action and its consequence in eight schizophrenic patients and matched controls. The patients showed an unusually strong binding effect between actions and consequences. Specifically, the temporal interval between action and consequence appeared shorter for patients than for controls. Patients may overassociate their actions with subsequent events, experiencing their actions as having unusual causal efficacy. Disorders of agency may reflect an underlying abnormality in the experience of voluntary action.
We have studied the differentiation of striatal projection neurons in co-culture with expanded glia from different regions of the embryonic mouse telencephalon. Our results show that when striatal progenitors are cultured on glia derived from the same region as they originate (i.e. the lateral ganglionic eminence), the neurons formed exhibit long processes. This is not the case when the cells are co-cultured with glia derived from the adjacent telencephalic region, the medial ganglionic eminence. Moreover, expression of the striatal projection neuron marker, dopamine- and cAMP-regulated phosphoprotein (DARPP-32) was significantly enhanced in neurons cultured on the homotopic glia. Thus, glial cultures derived from the lateral ganglionic eminence positively regulate the differentiation of striatal projection neurons in vitro.
Deception is a cognitive process in humans and animals which is not well understood. Most studies on lie detection have focused on emotional components associated with deception. We employed transcranial magnetic stimulation of the motor cortex in conjunction with a constrained question answer protocol for the first time to show increased cortical excitability in generating deceptive responses, in contrast with truthful responses. This may be due to increased cognitive activity in the motor and premotor connections. Our findings corroborate functional imaging studies and may have future implications in evaluating lie detection.
We examined whether morphine reduced the behavioral signs of neuropathic pain below level induced by T13 spinal hemisection in rats. In order to examine the effect of morphine on the mechanical allodynia, morphine alone, morphine with naloxone and saline were administered intraperitoneally and intrathecally and behavioral tests were conducted. In systemic injection, mechanical allodynia was reduced only when a higher concentration of morphine (5 mg/kg) was used. Intrathecally injected morphine (0.5, 1, 2, 5 microg) reduced mechanical allodynia dose-dependently. It is suggested that systemic morphine has limited effect on mechanical allodynia but direct spinal administration of morphine is more effective in controlling central pain following spinal cord injury.
CEP-1347 inhibits the signalling pathway of c-jun-N-terminal kinase, and is neuroprotective in vivo and in vitro. Embryonic chick dorsal root ganglion neurones are dependent on NGF for survival and neurite outgrowth; NGF withdrawal results in apoptotic cell death. We examined the neuroprotective and neurite outgrowth promoting activity of CEP-1347 in dissociated DRG neurones and in primary DRG explants. CEP-1347 was as effective as NGF in promoting survival of dissociated DRG neurones, but caused only limited neurite outgrowth from DRG explants. When NGF was subsequently added to CEP-1347 treated explants, the outgrowth increased to a similar level to explants which had received NGF throughout. CEP-1347 may be a useful tool to maintain viable DRG explants to allow evaluation of neurite outgrowth promoting compounds and dissection of survival and neurite outgrowth signalling pathways.
This study examined the effects of cued vs non-cued food delivery/consumption on extracellular glutamate and dopamine in the nucleus accumbens of food-deprived rats. Animals that always received a food pellet following a series of auditory tones showed a significant decrease in extracellular glutamate following food consumption, whereas animals that had not been previously exposed to tone-food pairing did not (p&lt;0.05). In contrast, extracellular dopamine was significantly increased in the nucleus accumbens during the first time period after food consumption (p&lt;0.05) regardless of whether animals had been exposed to prior tone-food pairing. Results suggest that food delivery/consumption is associated with a decrease in accumbal glutamate if food delivery has been previously paired with predictive environmental cues.
The role of the central nucleus of the amygdala in nociception--conditioned and unconditioned aversion--was studied. Rats received microinjection of vehicle or the N-type Ca2+ channel blocker omega-conotoxin GVIA (0.2 microg/250 nl) into the central amygdaloid nucleus prior to intra-plantar injection of formalin, ultrasound exposure or immediately prior to the acquisition phase of an aversive conditioning trial. Intra-amygdala omega-conotoxin GVIA resulted in an earlier onset of nociceptive response to formalin and increased nociceptive behaviour during the first 5 min. Omega-conotoxin GVIA significantly reduced conditioned freezing behaviour with no effect on ultrasound-induced unconditioned aversive behaviour. These data indicate that N-type Ca2+ channels in the central amygdaloid nucleus play a role in mediating behavioural responses to nociceptive and conditioned aversive stimuli.
AMPA receptors, which are composed of four subunits (GluR1-4), help mediate synaptic transmission at most excitatory synapses in the brain. Their subunit composition influences the kinetics of AMPA receptor deactivation and desensitization, thus, the efficacy of synaptic transmission. Immunohistochemical data suggest that AMPA receptor subunit expression in the olfactory bulb (OB) follows a distinct laminar and cellular distribution. However, little is known about the kinetic properties of AMPA receptors on OB neurons. In this study, we used kinetic analysis and pharmacologic methods to demonstrate that the rate and extent of desensitization of OB AMPA receptors vary within and between neuronal subtypes. Such variability suggests that a broad functional diversity of AMPA receptors contributes to olfactory information processing.
Disrupted in Schizophrenia-1 (DISC1) was identified as truncated by a balanced translocation segregating with schizophrenia and other major mental illness in a large Scottish family. As a step in evaluating the function of DISC1 and its potential role in human schizophrenia, we have determined its regional expression in the primate brain by in situ hybridization. DISC1 expression is highly localized, with most prominent expression in the dentate gyrus of the hippocampus and lateral septum, and lower levels of expression in the cerebral cortex, amygdala, paraventricular hypothalamus, cerebellum, interpeduncular nucleus, and subthalamic nucleus. Given that many of these regions have been implicated in schizophrenia pathogenesis, these results suggest brain circuits through which DISC1 truncation may predispose to schizophrenia.
The expression pattern of metabotropic glutamate receptor 1alpha (mGluR1alpha) was immunohistochemically investigated in substantia nigra dopaminergic neurons of the macaque monkey. In normal monkeys, mGluR1alpha immunoreactivity was weakly observed in the dorsal tier of the substantia nigra pars compacta (SNc-d) where calbindin-D28k-containing dopaminergic neurons invulnerable to parkinsonian degeneration are specifically located. On the other hand, mGluR1alpha was strongly expressed in the ventral tier of the substantia nigra pars compacta (SNc-v). In monkeys treated with the parkinsonism-inducing drug, 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP), mGluR1alpha expression was decreased in dopaminergic neurons in the SNc-v that were spared its toxic action. These results suggest that mGluR1alpha expression may be involved at least partly in the vulnerability of dopaminergic neurons to parkinsonian insults.



VacA is a major virulence factor of the widespread stomach-dwelling bacterium Helicobacter pylori. It causes cell vacuolation and tissue damage by forming anion-selective, urea-permeable channels in plasma and endosomal membranes. We report that several flavone derivatives and other polyphenols present in vegetables and plants inhibit ion and urea conduction and cell vacuolation by VacA. Red wine and green tea, which contain many of the compounds in question, also potently inhibit the toxin. These observations suggest that polyphenols or polyphenol derivatives may be useful in the prevention or cure of H. pylori-associated gastric diseases.
In pursuit of a GABA(A) alpha5-subtype-selective inverse agonist to enhance cognition, a series of 6,7-dihydro-2-benzothiophen-4(5H)-ones has been identified as a novel class of GABA(A) receptor ligands. These thiophenes have higher binding affinity for the GABA(A) alpha5 receptor subtype compared to the GABA(A) alpha1, alpha2, and alpha3 subtypes, and several analogues exhibit high GABA(A) alpha5 receptor inverse agonism. 6,6-Dimethyl-3-(2-hydroxyethyl)thio-1-(thiazol-2-yl)-6,7-dihydro-2-benzothiophen-4(5H)-one (43) has been identified as a full inverse agonist at the GABA(A) alpha5 receptor and is functionally selective over the other major GABA(A) receptor subtypes. 43 readily penetrates into the CNS to give selective occupancy of GABA(A) alpha5 receptors. In addition, 43 enhances cognitive performance in rats in the delayed 'matching-to-place' Morris water maze test-a hippocampal-dependent memory task-without the convulsant or proconvulsant activity associated with nonselective, GABA(A) receptor inverse agonists.

We investigated the neural basis of visual and saccade selection in the frontal eye field of macaque monkeys using a singleton search task with prosaccade or antisaccade responses. Two types of neurons were distinguished. The first initially selected the singleton even in antisaccade trials, although most subsequently selected the endpoint of the saccade. The time the singleton was located was not affected by stimulus-response compatibility and did not vary with reaction time across trials. The second type of neuron selected only the endpoint of the saccade. The time of endpoint selection by these neurons accounted for most of the effect of stimulus-response compatibility on reaction time. These results indicate that visual selection and saccade selection are different processes.
Glia are the most abundant cell type in the mammalian brain. They regulate neuronal development and function, CNS immune surveillance, and stem cell biology, yet we know surprisingly little about glia in any organism. Here we identify over 40 new Drosophila glial genes. We use glial cells missing (gcm) mutants and misexpression to verify they are Gcm regulated in vivo. Many genes show unique spatiotemporal responsiveness to Gcm in the CNS, and thus glial subtype diversification requires spatially or temporally restricted Gcm cofactors. These genes provide insights into glial biology: we show unc-5 (a repulsive netrin receptor) orients glial migrations and the draper gene mediates glial engulfment of apoptotic neurons and larval locomotion. Many identified Drosophila glial genes have homologs expressed in mammalian glia, revealing conserved molecular features of glial cells. 80% of these Drosophila glial genes have mammalian homologs; these are now excellent candidates for regulating human glial development, function, or disease.
We present a new technique for acquiring and analyzing intrinsic signal optical images of brain activity, using continuous stimulus presentation and data acquisition. The main idea is to present a temporally periodic stimulus and to analyze the component of the response at the stimulus frequency. Advantages of the new technique include the removal of heart, respiration, and vasomotor artifacts, a dramatic increase in spatial resolution, and a 30-fold or greater reduction in acquisition time. We also present a novel approach to localizing instantaneous neuronal responses using time-reversed stimuli that is widely applicable to brain imaging. To demonstrate the power of the technique, we present high-resolution retinotopic maps of five visual areas in mouse cortex and orientation maps in cat visual cortex.


We have discovered a novel series of N-[2-(2,2,2-trifluoro-1-hydroxy-1-trifluoromethyl-ethyl)-naphthalen-1-yl] amides that are potent openers of K(ATP) channels and investigated structure-activity relationships (SAR) around the 1,2-disubstituted naphthyl core. A-151892, a prototype compound of this series, was found to be a potent and efficacious potassium channel opener in vitro in transfected Kir6.2/SUR2B cells and pig bladder strips. Additionally, A-151892 was found to selectively inhibit unstable bladder contractions in vivo in an obstructed rat model of myogenic bladder function
The synthesis of four (+/-)-fluorinated 1-(3-morpholin-4-yl-phenyl)-ethylamines and an enantioselective approach to these amines through reductive amination are described.
Here we examine whether a permanent reduction in the noradrenergic (NA) innervation of the spinal cord leads to a chronic decreased nociceptive threshold. NA denervation of rats was achieved by intrathecal injection of dopamine beta-hydroxylase antibodies conjugated to the toxin saporin. A subset of animals also underwent unilateral L5 spinal nerve ligature to induce sustained neuropathic pain behavior. NA fibers and terminals were lost throughout the spinal cord 2 weeks after toxin application and were still absent 12 months later, indicating that regeneration did not occur. There was also a widespread loss of NA terminals in the cerebral cortex, whereas innervation of the hypothalamus and amygdala were close to normal and NA innervation of the brainstem was moderately reduced. There was extensive loss of NA cells in the locus coeruleus and A5 and A7 cell groups. Dopaminergic and serotoninergic innervation was normal. Intracerebroventricular injection of the toxin resulted in additional NA reduction in the hypothalamus, amygdala, and A1 and A2 cell groups. Long-term removal of NA afferents did not affect nociceptive thresholds. Neuropathic animals showed greater mechanical hyperalgesia in the affected hindpaw only during the first 60 days after toxin. Rats lacking NA spinal afferents were less responsive to the antinociceptive effects of morphine, especially in the neuropathic hindpaw, and did not display opioid-dependent stress analgesia. Finally, in the spinal cord of toxin-treated rats, immunoreactivity for substance P was decreased, whereas that of its receptor (NK1) was increased. These animals exhibited antinociception to a low dose of an NK1 receptor antagonist. Our results suggest that NA contributes only modestly to determining the nociceptive threshold and that its antinociceptive effects are closely linked to opioidergic and tachykinergic neurotransmission.
Excessive circulating levels of glucocorticoids are thought to be associated with cognitive impairment. We provide evidence that chronic activation of the glucocorticoid receptor (GR) in clonal neurons inhibits the transcriptional activity of the cyclic AMP response element-binding protein (CREB), which is believed to be involved in memory processes. To investigate the underlying mechanism we studied the phosphorylation of CREB and found altered phosphorylation kinetics in neurons chronically treated with glucocorticoids. Our results demonstrate a hitherto unrecognized crosstalk between the cyclic AMP and glucocorticoid pathway and may provide the molecular basis for the effects of long-term glucocorticoid exposure on cognitive function.
The horizontal and vertical vestibulo ocular reflex (VOR) of head tilted (het) mutant mice was compared to C57BL/6 controls. Eye movements were recorded in darkness using a temporarily attached search coil. Contributions of semicircular canal versus otolith organ signals were investigated by providing a canal only (vertical axis) or canal plus otolith organ (horizontal axis) stimulus. In controls, rotations that stimulated only the canals (upright yaw and on tail roll) produced accurate VOR timing during middle frequency rotations at 0.5 Hz (gain 0.27, phase error 6 degrees), and a phase advanced VOR during low frequency rotations at 0.05 Hz (0.05, 115 degrees). In het mutant mice, these rotations produced a highly attenuated VOR response and phase errors at both 0.5 Hz (0.11, 42 degrees) and 0.05 Hz (0.01, 36 degrees). In controls, rotations that stimulated both the otolith organs and semicircular canals (upright roll and on tail yaw) produced higher VOR gains overall than were elicited during vertical axis rotations, with phase accurate VOR at both 0.5 Hz (0.52, 4 degrees) and 0.05 Hz (0.34, 9 degrees). In het mutant mice, these rotations produced a highly attenuated VOR response and phase errors at both 0.5 Hz (0.14, 51 degrees) and 0.05 Hz (0.01, 43 degrees). During constant velocity rotations about an earth horizontal axis, eye velocity bias and modulation were virtually absent in het mutant mice, while robust in controls. Control mice produced compensatory ocular deviations in response to static head tilt, but responses in het mice were weak and inconsistent. These results show that het mice not only lack all aspects of otolith mediated VOR, but also are deficient in canal mediated VOR. Because semicircular canals are normal in het mice, we conclude that central neurons of the canal VOR are dependent on otolith organ signals for normal performance.
Middle cerebral artery occlusion (MCAO) impairs performance in the water maze task by rats. The purpose was to evaluate the effect of bilateral MCAO in naive and strategies-pretrained rats using a detailed behavioral analysis to further develop a water maze model of stroke. Rats were trained in either a simple swim-to-visible platform task or in a conventional spatial version with a hidden platform in the pool. In the visible platform task naive stroked rats were impaired because of a marked tendency to swim thigmotaxically on most trials. For the spatial learning experiment, some rats received Morris' water maze strategies pretraining prior to MCAO and subsequent spatial training to familiarize them with the general behavioral strategies required in the task. In the spatial learning task naive stroked rats had both strategies and spatial learning impairments but pretrained stroked rats were indistinguishable from sham controls on all behavioral measures. All stroked rats had comparable bilateral brain damage measured using a computerized volumetric measuring technique. These results indicate that in naive rats bilateral MCAO causes behavioral strategies impairments in the visible and hidden platform versions of the water maze as well as specific spatial learning impairments in the hidden platform version. The results also indicate that behavioral strategies pretraining allows stroked rats to acquire and remember sufficient strategies skills and spatial information to perform as well as sham controls during subsequent spatial training. These techniques appear to be capable of quantifying the effects of potentially protective treatments for stroke.
In recent years, there has been increasing recognition that pro-inflammatory cytokines play a role in behavioral and physiological alterations produced by exposure to psychological stressors. Indeed, increases in central IL-1 production have been observed following stressors such as inescapable tailshock and social isolation, while no changes in IL-1 have been observed following other stressors (e.g., exposure to a predator). The goal of the following work was to establish whether exposure to the forced swim test (FST), a commonly used animal model of behavioral despair/depression, leads to an increase in central or peripheral production of IL-1. Briefly, adult male Sprague-Dawley rats (n=8 per group) were forced to swim for 15-30 min (25 degrees C) and killed at various intervals (ranging from immediately to 24 h) following stressor termination. Brains (hippocampus, hypothalamus, posterior cortex) and multiple peripheral tissues (pituitary, adrenals, spleen, plasma) were then dissected and frozen for subsequent measurement of IL-1 using a commercially available enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay. No observable increases in IL-1 were found in rats that were forced to swim acutely, or in rats that were re-exposed to the forced swim stressor 24 h later. These data suggest that exposure to forced swim does not lead to an increase in central production of IL-1, suggesting that the central IL-1 system is unlikely to play a role in mediating behavioral consequences of this stressor. However, these data do not exclude the possibility that other pro-inflammatory cytokines (such as IL-6 and TNF-alpha) might be produced in response to forced swim exposure.
Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) have been known to reduce risk for Alzheimer's disease. In addition to the anti-inflammatory effects of NSAIDs to block cylooxygenase, it has been shown recently that a subset of NSAIDs selectively inhibits the secretion of highly amyloidogenic Abeta42 from cultured cells, although the molecular target(s) of NSAIDs in reducing the activity of gamma-secretase for Abeta42 generation (gamma(42)-secretase) still remain unknown. Here we show that sulindac sulfide (SSide) directly acts on gamma-secretase and preferentially inhibits the gamma(42)-secretase activity derived from the 3-[(3-cholamidopropyl)dimethylammonio]-2-hydroxy-1-propanesulfonate-solubilized membrane fractions of HeLa cells, in an in vitro gamma-secretase assay using recombinant amyloid beta precursor protein C100 as a substrate. SSide also inhibits activities for the generation of Abeta40 as well as for Notch intracellular domain at higher concentrations. Notably, SSide displayed linear noncompetitive inhibition profiles for gamma(42)-secretase in vitro. Our data suggest that SSide is a direct inhibitor of gamma-secretase that preferentially affects the gamma(42)-secretase activity.
Synaptic mechanisms of plasticity are calcium-dependent processes that are affected by dysfunction of mitochondrial calcium buffering. Recently, we observed that mice deficient in mitochondrial voltage-dependent anion channels, the outer component of the mitochondrial permeability transition pore, have impairments in learning and hippocampal synaptic plasticity, suggesting that the mitochondrial permeability transition pore is involved in hippocampal synaptic plasticity. In this study, we examined the effect on synaptic transmission and plasticity of blocking the permeability transition pore with low doses of cyclosporin A and found a deficit in synaptic plasticity and an increase in base-line synaptic transmission. Calcium imaging of presynaptic terminals revealed a transient increase in the resting calcium concentration immediately upon incubation with cyclosporin A that correlated with the changes in synaptic transmission and plasticity. The effect of cyclosporin A on presynaptic calcium was abolished when mitochondria were depolarized prior to cyclosporin A exposure, and the effects of cyclosporin A and mitochondrial depolarization on presynaptic resting calcium were similar, suggesting a mitochondrial locus of action of cyclosporin A. To further characterize the calcium dynamics of the mitochondrial permeability transition pore, we used an in vitro assay of calcium handling by isolated brain mitochondria. Cyclosporin A-exposed mitochondria buffered calcium more rapidly and subsequently triggered a more rapid mitochondrial depolarization. Similarly, mitochondria lacking the voltage-dependent anion channel 1 isoform depolarized more readily than littermate controls. The data suggest a role for the mitochondrial permeability transition pore and voltage-dependent anion channels in mitochondrial synaptic calcium buffering and in hippocampal synaptic plasticity.
We previously reported a genome-wide scan for bipolar affective disorder based on a multigenerational family sampled from a relatively homogeneous population derived from founding families that migrated to an isolated area of Quebec from the early 1830s onwards. For the genome scan, the pedigree was split into five branches to facilitate calculation and a second family was added to more specifically analyze chromosome 12 results. In the present study, we reanalyzed the undivided pedigree after genealogical links were reconstructed over ten generations to investigate a founder effect using an algorithm in the SIMWALK2 package. Our results do not lend support to the presence of a common haplotype shared among affected individuals.
This study investigated possible associations between selected polymorphisms in the serotonin receptor genes, 5-HT2A and 5-HT2C, with the presence of co-morbid depressive illness at baseline in a community based cohort of 158 patients with late onset patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD). An association was found between the presence of major depressive illness at baseline and both the 5-HT2A and 5-HT2C polymorphisms. Specifically, homozygous carriers of the 5-HT2A C102 allele were five times more likely to have major depressive illness than heterozygotes. In addition, homozygous or hemizygous carriers of the 5-HT2C Ser allele were 12 times more likely to have major depressive illness than homozygous or hemizygous carriers of the 5-HT2C Cys allele.
An association has been reported between a dopamine D(2) receptor gene (DRD2) Ser311Cys variant and schizophrenia. In a replication attempt, Swedish patients with schizophrenia (n = 173) and control subjects (n = 236) were assessed for the DRD2 Ser311Cys variant. Schizophrenic patients displayed higher Cys311 allele frequencies than control subjects (4.0 vs. 0.8%, chi(2) = 9.49, df = 1, P = 0.002; odds ratio (OR) 4.93, 95% confidence interval (95% CI) 1.61-15.12). The association was detected only in men. The results were supported by a meta-analysis of all published case-control studies comprising a total of 9,152 subjects (chi(2) = 11.37, df = 1, P &lt; 0.001; OR 1.43, 95% CI 1.16-1.78). The present results support the involvement of the DRD2 gene in the pathogenesis of schizophrenia.
Efficient screening for ligands of seven-transmembrane, G-protein-coupled receptors, whether transfected or endogenously expressed, often involves cell-based reporter assays. Here we describe the development of reporter gene assays in HeLa cells. The reporter construct includes a synthetic multifunctional promoter with several different response motifs (NF-kappaB, STAT, and AP-1) and hence efficiently funnels several signaling pathways. The assay, performed with the resulting reporter cell line HFF11, has an exceptional high Z-factor and a large signal-to-background ratio. To facilitate cell handling during screening, we introduced a secreted Renilla luciferase as a reporter enzyme. HR36 reporter cells, equipped with the construct, were added to ligands present in a multiwell plate and after addition of coelenterazine they produced a luminescence readout. This procedure economizes cell handling and at the same time increases assay quality and sensitivity
Motor performance in mice can be assessed with multiple apparatus and protocols. Use of the rotarod (a.k.a. rotorod, rota-rod, roto-rod, or accelerod) is very common, and it is often used with the apparent assumption by the experimenters that it is a straightforward and simple assay of coordination. The rotarod is sensitive to drugs that affect motor coordination, including ethanol. However, there are few systematic data assessing the range of &quot;normal&quot; performance in mice. There are also few data exploring optimal task parameters (e.g. the influence of different speeds of rotation). In these experiments, we show that both accelerating and fixed-speed rotarod (FSRR) performance vary under different test protocols and conditions, and that moderate to high doses of ethanol disrupt performance. Under certain conditions, low doses of ethanol were found to enhance performance on the accelerating rotarod (ARR). Therefore, it is not possible to characterize individual differences fully using a single set of test parameters. For example, because of the biphasic effect of ethanol on performance, at least two doses of the drug are necessary to explore individual sensitivity differences. We offer recommendations of parameters we believe to be generally suitable for exploring the performance of new genotypes using the rotarod. We suggest that other putative tests of &quot;ataxia&quot; are similarly complex, and that characterizing the contribution of genetic differences will require similar attention to the details of task apparatus and protocols. These data also underscore the need to employ multiple behavioral assays in order to model a complex domain such as &quot;ataxia&quot; or &quot;coordination.&quot;
CB(1) cannabinoid receptor agonists show a different profile compared to other drugs of abuse on the basis of experimental data that reveal their reinforcing properties. Thus, there are controversial data in the literature concerning the ability of CB(1) receptor agonists to reinforce behavioral responses in experimental animals, i.e. to lower self-stimulation thresholds, and to support self-administration or conditioned place preference. The aim of the present study was to examine the effects of WIN 55,212-2, a potent CB(1) receptor agonist (graded doses 0.1, 0.3, 1 mg/kg, i.p.), on the rewarding efficacy of lateral hypothalamic self-stimulation and on the systemic cocaine-induced potentiation of brain-stimulation reward. WIN 55,212-2 did not affect lateral hypothalamic self-stimulation thresholds both in drug nai;ve rats and in rats pretreated with the drug, whereas it produced a significant, dose-dependent decrease in the maximal rate of responding, i.e. in the performance of the animals. Cocaine (5.0 mg/kg, i.p.) produced a significant reduction in self-stimulation threshold, without altering maximal rates of responding. Importantly, WIN 55,212-2 attenuated the effect of cocaine at the two higher doses tested. The effects of the CB(1) receptor agonist were reversed by pretreatment with the selective CB(1) receptor antagonist SR 141716A (0.02 mg/kg, i.p.) that did not by itself affect cocaine's action. These results indicate that acute stimulation of CB(1) receptors per se does not affect baseline self-stimulation, but reduces the reinforcing effects induced by cocaine. Taken together these findings suggest that cannabinoids may interfere with brain-reward systems responsible for the expression of acute reinforcing properties of drugs of abuse, such as cocaine, and provide evidence that the cannabinoid system could be an interesting drug discovery and development target for the treatment of drug addiction.
The Morris water maze, one of the most common behavioral tasks to assess learning and memory in rodents, exposes the animals to cold water for a few minutes. Unlike rats, young healthy mice can become severely hypothermic during the task. Five swims of 45 s in 20 degrees C water with 30s between the trials was enough to cause up to 9 degrees C drop in the rectal temperature. The decline in core temperature was accompanied by slowing of the swimming speed. Moreover, the effect was dependent on the sex and genotype of the mice, such that females were more susceptible to hypothermia than males and transgenic mice carrying Alzheimer-associated APP and PS1 mutations more vulnerable than their nontransgenic littermates. Raising the water temperature from 20 to 24 degrees C alleviated the hypothermia, but did not remove the significant drop in core temperature when using 30-s inter-trial interval. However, increasing the break from 30 s to 13 min removed the net cooling effect of five trials on the core temperature and swimming speed. We conclude that the currently most common water maze protocol renders mice hypothermic, which may confound the test results, especially when transgenic female mice are used. We recommend monitoring of the swimming speed on a trial-by-trial basis and using longer inter-trial intervals.
Newborn rats were exposed to intermittent hypobaric hypoxia from birth until the age of 19 days. Spatial memory was tested in a Morris water maze from postnatal day (P) 23 to P32 and from P100 to P109. From P24 to P27 and on days P100 and P101, the escape latencies of hypoxic animals were longer than those of controls. At P24, the number of neuronal bodies increased in cortical layer II of the somatosensory, motor, and auditory areas, and in layer V of the motor area, but the number of neuronal bodies throughout the whole cortical thickness was unchanged. Decreases in the immunostaining density for neurofilaments (anti-NF 160), astrocytes (anti-GFAP), and oligodendrocytes (RIP) were found in the hippocampus, and the typical parallel organisation of neuronal and macroglial processes was lost. Decreases in immunostaining for neurofilaments and oligodendrocytes were also found in the somatosensory cortex and motor cortex. In adult hypoxic rats, at P114-P240, the number of neuronal bodies and the immunostaining density for neurofilaments, astrocytes, and oligodendrocytes in the examined areas were similar to adult controls; however, in the hippocampus we found hypertrophy of fine astrocytic processes and a decreased number of oligodendrocytic processes. We conclude that the neonatal brain damage induced by hypobaric hypoxia impairs spatial memory in infant as well as adult rats. Hypobaric hypoxia delays the maturation of neurones and substantially affects macroglia in the cortex and hippocampus.

Recently we developed a new technique, known as peripheral nociception test or algogenic-induced nociceptive flexion (ANF) test, to study the in vivo signal transduction of pain at the peripheral nerve endings in mice. In the present report, we examined the sensitivity of the method to detect pain signal and the stresses induced by the test on experimental animals. In the algogenic-induced biting and licking (ABL) test, bradykinin could not induce significant biting-licking response even at a dose of 1nmol. It induced significant biting-licking response only at 10nmol. However, with the ANF test, 100fmol of bradykinin was enough to produce sharp and significant nociceptive flexion response. Similarly, substance P, ATP and ONO-54918-07, a stable prostaglandin I(2) agonist, induced nociceptive flexion response in ANF test at much lower doses than needed to induce biting-licking responses in ABL test. Next, we measured the plasma corticosterone level after different nociception tests, which is a measure of stress on animals due to experimental manipulations. However, no significant rise in corticosterone level was observed with ANF test. Altogether, these findings indicate that the ANF test is a highly sensitive and less stressful technique to study in vivo mechanisms of pain at the peripheral nerve ending.
The clinical importance of benzodiazepines, barbiturates and general anesthetics, all of which act through the gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA)-A neurotransmitter receptor, is testament to its significance as a CNS drug target. These drugs were all developed before there was any understanding of the diversity of this receptor gene family. Recent studies using genetically modified mice and GABA-A receptor-subtype-selective compounds have helped to delineate the function of some of these subtypes, and have revealed that it might be possible to develop a new generation of selective drugs with improved profiles or novel applications.
Previous studies have shown that sulfatide is present and functionally involved in beta cells, and that anti-sulfatide antibodies (ASA) exist during development of type I diabetes mellitus. To further explore the possible role of sulfatide in type I diabetes, developmental expression was examined in human pancreas and in pancreas of the type I diabetes models BB rat and NOD mouse compared to Lewis rat and BALB/c mouse, respectively. Sulfatide was not only expressed in adult pancreas, but also in human fetal and rodent neonatal pancreas, i.e., during the growing period of the immunological self. Sulfatide had a different expression pattern in human beings and rodents, concerning both the amounts of sulfatide and expression during development. There was no change in the sulfatide fatty acid isoform expression during development. The pancreatic expression of another sulfated glycosphingolipid, sulfated lactosylceramide, indicated that this molecule is a potential fetal/neonatal marker, which was further expressed in the type I diabetic models. In conclusion, these findings give further support to the possibility that sulfatide is a relevant autoantigen in type I diabetes and that sulfated lactosylceramide might function as a potential risk factor for disease development, at least in the animal models.
Studies from our laboratory have revealed a novel mu opiate receptor, mu 3, which is expressed in both vascular tissues and leukocytes. The mu 3 receptor is selective for opiate alkaloids and is insensitive to opioid peptides. We now identify the mu 3 receptor at the molecular level using a 441-bp conserved region of the mu 1 receptor. Sequence analysis of the isolated cDNA suggests that it is a novel, alternatively spliced variant of the mu opiate receptor gene. To determine whether protein expressed from this cDNA exhibits the biochemical characteristics expected of the mu 3 receptor, the cDNA clone was expressed in a heterologous system. At the functional level, COS-1 cells transfected with the mu 3 receptor cDNA exhibited dose-dependent release of NO following treatment with morphine, but not opioid peptides (i.e., Met-enkephalin). Naloxone was able to block the effect of morphine on COS-1 transfected cells. Nontransfected COS-1 cells did not produce NO in the presence of morphine or the opioid peptides at similar concentrations. Receptor binding analysis with [(3)H]dihydromorphine further supports the opiate alkaloid selectivity and opioid peptide insensitivity of this receptor. These data suggest that this new mu opiate receptor cDNA encodes the mu 3 opiate receptor, since it exhibits biochemical characteristics known to be unique to this receptor (opiate alkaloid selective and opioid peptide insensitive). Furthermore, using Northern blot, RT-PCR, and sequence analysis, we have demonstrated the expression of this new mu variant in human vascular tissue, mononuclear cells, polymorphonuclear cells, and human neuroblastoma cells.
A 25-year-old Chinese man presented with a 2-year history of recurrent coma. His plasma ammonia level was extremely elevated, with raised citrulline level and absence of argininosuccinic acid. Adult-onset citrullinaemia, a condition rarely reported outside the Japanese population, was diagnosed. Serial magnetic resonance (MR) imaging, including diffusion-weighted (DW) studies, showed initial involvement of the insula cortex and cingulate gyrus, changing to a pattern of multiple small lesions in the depths of the cortical sulci. This changing pattern of lesions over time on DW MR imaging has not previously been described in adult-onset citrullinaemia.
Madras motor neuron disease (MMND) has the characteristic features of onset in the young, atrophy and weakness of the limbs, multiple cranial nerve palsies particularly the seventh, ninth to twelfth and sensorineural hearing loss with unique geographic distribution to southern part of India. During a period of 28 years (1974-2001), 7 (13%) among 54 patients of MMND seen at a tertiary referral center at Bangalore, India, had the additional features of optic atrophy in all and cerebellar involvement in three of them. There were three males and four females, the mean age at onset was 11.7 years, with a mean duration of illness of 6.4 years. All except one patient were ambulant and independent in the activities of daily living. Family history of MMND was present in more than a quarter (28.6%) of patients. Compared to MMND, these patients had onset of illness at a younger age and family history was more frequently observed, however, these differences were not statistically significant. Bulbar palsy was an invariable feature, being present in all patients compared to 38.3% of MMND and the difference was statistically significant (p=0.003). This clinical profile may be considered to be a variant of Madras motor neuron disease (MMNDV).
The chorda tympani (CT) nerve innervating the anterior tongue contains two types of NaCl-responsive fibers: one, the N-type, receives input from receptor cells, the NaCl responses of which are strongly inhibited by amiloride, whereas the other, the E-type, receives input from cells poorly sensitive or insensitive to amiloride. To investigate the formation of this differentially responsive neural system, we crushed the mouse CT nerve and examined the subsequent recovery of NaCl responses and amiloride sensitivity of the regenerated nerve and behavioral discrimination between NaCl and KCl. At 2 weeks after the nerve crush, no significant response of the nerve to chemical stimuli was observed. At 3 weeks, responses to salts gradually reappeared. In this period, almost all single fibers responding to NaCl were insensitive to amiloride (E-type). At 4 weeks, some of the single fibers showed amiloride sensitivity (N-type) and behavioral discrimination between NaCl and KCl reappeared. After &gt;or=5 weeks, the number of N-type fibers had reached the control level and became approximately equal to that of E-type fibers. During the course of recovery, N-type and E-type fibers were clearly distinguishable on the basis of their amiloride sensitivities, their KCl/NaCl response ratios, and their concentration-response relationships to NaCl. These results suggest that two salt-responsive systems are independently reformed after the nerve crush. The selective synapse reformation may account for recovery of behavioral discrimination between NaCl and KCl after taste nerve crush and regeneration. It may also explain stable sensory coding for taste quality during the continuous turnover of receptor cells in the healthy animal.
The placebo and nocebo effect is believed to be mediated by both cognitive and conditioning mechanisms, although little is known about their role in different circumstances. In this study, we first analyzed the effects of opposing verbal suggestions on experimental ischemic arm pain in healthy volunteers and on motor performance in Parkinsonian patients and found that verbally induced expectations of analgesia/hyperalgesia and motor improvement/worsening antagonized completely the effects of a conditioning procedure. We also measured the effects of opposing verbal suggestions on hormonal secretion and found that verbally induced expectations of increase/decrease of growth hormone (GH) and cortisol did not have any effect on the secretion of these hormones. However, if a preconditioning was performed with sumatriptan, a 5-HT(1B/1D) agonist that stimulates GH and inhibits cortisol secretion, a significant increase of GH and decrease of cortisol plasma concentrations were found after placebo administration, although opposite verbal suggestions were given. These findings indicate that verbally induced expectations have no effect on hormonal secretion, whereas they affect pain and motor performance. This suggests that placebo responses are mediated by conditioning when unconscious physiological functions such as hormonal secretion are involved, whereas they are mediated by expectation when conscious physiological processes such as pain and motor performance come into play, even though a conditioning procedure is performed.
The dopaminergic system has been shown to be involved in the processing of rewarding stimuli, specifically of errors in reward prediction, in animal studies as well as in recent neuroimaging studies in humans. Furthermore, a specific role of dopamine in the human homolog of the rostral cingulate motor area (rCMA) was proposed in a recent model of error detection. Negative feedback as well as self-detected errors elicit a negative event-related brain potential probably generated in the rCMA. We performed two experiments using functional magnetic resonance imaging to investigate the brain activity related to negative and positive feedback in a dynamically adaptive motion prediction task. Whereas positive feedback raised hemodynamic activity in the ventral striatum (nucleus accumbens), negative feedback activated the rCMA, the inferior anterior insula, and the epithalamus (habenular complex). These data demonstrate the role of the habenular complex in the control of the human reward system, a function previously hypothesized on the basis of animal research. The rCMA reacted only to errors with negative feedback but not to errors without feedback, which ruled out an influence of response conflict or uncertainty on its role in error detection by external signals.
Nitric oxide (NO) has been implicated in some of the central pathways engaged in the regulation of the sleep-wake cycle. The existence of nitric oxide synthase (NOS) in the cholinergic basal forebrain (BF) cells projecting to the cortex suggests a role for NO in the activation induced by the BF during arousal. We tested, in the anesthetized cat, the hypothesis that inhibition of NOS would decrease the ability of BF cholinergic fibers to induce cortical activation. In control conditions, BF stimulation evoked an awake-like EEG pattern (i.e., a decrease in the low-frequency-high-amplitude oscillatory activity and an increase in the high-frequency-low-amplitude activity). After blocking NOS activity, the capacity of BF stimulation to induce cortical activation was strongly impaired. Furthermore, voltammetric measurements of NO levels revealed an increase in cortical NO after BF stimulation, also blocked by systemic NOS inhibition. These results indicate that the blockade of NOS activity significantly reduces the ability of BF stimulation to induce changes in the EEG pattern and suggest a role for NO in the BF-cholinergic system implicated in arousal mechanisms.
Motor learning was induced in the translational vestibulo-ocular reflex (TVOR) when monkeys were repeatedly subjected to a brief (0.5 sec) head translation while they tried to maintain binocular fixation on a visual target for juice rewards. If the target was world-fixed, the initial eye speed of the TVOR gradually increased; if the target was head-fixed, the initial eye speed of the TVOR gradually decreased. The rate of learning acquisition was very rapid, with a time constant of approximately 100 trials, which was equivalent to &lt;1 min of accumulated stimulation. These learned changes were consolidated over &gt;or=1 d without any reinforcement, indicating induction of long-term synaptic plasticity. Although the learning generalized to targets with different viewing distances and to head translations with different accelerations, it was highly specific for the particular combination of head motion and evoked eye movement associated with the training. For example, it was specific to the modality of the stimulus (translation vs rotation) and the direction of the evoked eye movement in the training. Furthermore, when one eye was aligned with the heading direction so that it remained motionless during training, learning was not expressed in this eye, but only in the other nonaligned eye. These specificities show that the learning sites are neither in the sensory nor the motor limb of the reflex but in the sensory-motor transformation stage of the reflex. The dependence of the learning on both head motion and evoked eye movement suggests that Hebbian learning may be one of the underlying cellular mechanisms.
Magnocellular neurons of the supraoptic nucleus release the neuropeptides oxytocin and vasopressin from their dendrites to regulate their synaptic inputs. This study aims to determine the cellular mechanism by which vasopressin modulates excitatory synaptic transmission. Presumably by electroporation through perforated patch, we were able to successfully introduce biocytin into cells in which we performed an electrophysiological study. This method enabled us to determine that roughly half of the recorded neurons were immunoreactive to oxytocin-associated neurophysin and showed two characteristic features: an inward rectification and a sustained outward rectification. The remaining half showed a linear voltage-current relationship and was immunoreactive to vasopressin-associated neurophysin. Using these electrophysiological characteristics and post hoc immunohistochemistry to identify vasopressin or oxytocin neurons, we found that vasopressin decreased evoked EPSCs in vasopressin neurons while increasing EPSCs in oxytocin neurons. In both types of neurons, EPSC decay constants were not affected, indicating that desensitization of non-NMDA receptors did not underlie the EPSC amplitude change. In vasopressin neurons, both vasopressin and a V1a receptor agonist, F-180, decreased AMPA-induced currents, an effect blocked by a V1a receptor antagonist SR49059. In oxytocin neurons, AMPA-induced currents were facilitated by vasopressin, whereas F-180 had no effect. An oxytocin receptor antagonist blocked the facilitatory effect of vasopressin. Thus, we conclude that vasopressin inhibits EPSCs in vasopressin neurons via postsynaptic V1a receptors, whereas it facilitates EPSCs in oxytocin neurons through oxytocin receptors.
The present study sought to determine the downstream consequences of V1a vasopressin receptor (V1aR) activation of Ca2+ signaling in cortical astrocytes. Results of these analyses demonstrated that V1aR activation led to a marked increase in both cytoplasmic and nuclear Ca2+. We also investigated V1aR activation of Ca2+-activated signaling kinases, protein kinase C (PKC), Ca2+/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II (CaMKII), and the mitogen-activated protein (MAP) kinases [MAPK and extracellular signal-regulated kinases 1 and 2 (ERK1/2)], their localization within cytoplasmic and nuclear compartments, and activation of their downstream nuclear target, the transcription factor cAMP response element-binding protein (CREB). Results of these analyses demonstrated that V1aR activation led to a significant rise in PKC, CaMKII, and ERK1/2 activation, with CaMKII and ERK1/2 demonstrating dynamic transport between cytoplasmic and nuclear compartments. Although no evidence of PKC translocation was apparent, PKC and CaMKs were required for activation and nuclear translocation of ERK1/2. Subsequent to CaMKII and ERK1/2 translocation to the nucleus, CREB activation occurred and was found to be dependent on upstream activation of ERK1/2 and CaMKs. These data provide the first systematic analysis of the V1aR-induced Ca2+ signaling cascade in cortical astrocytes. In addition, results of this study introduce a heretofore unknown effect of vasopressin, dynamic Ca2+ signaling between the cytoplasm and nucleus that leads to comparable dynamics of kinase activation and shuttling between cytoplasmic and nuclear compartments. Implications for development and regeneration induced by V1aR activation of CREB-regulated gene expression in cortical astrocytes are discussed.
To investigate the intracellular signal transduction pathways involved in regulating the gene expression of brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) in primary afferent neurons, we examined the activation of extracellular signal-regulated protein kinase (ERK) in dorsal root ganglion (DRG) neurons after peripheral inflammation and sciatic nerve transection. Peripheral inflammation induced an increase in the phosphorylation of ERK, mainly in tyrosine kinase A-containing small-to-medium-diameter DRG neurons. The treatment of the mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) kinase 1/2 inhibitor U0126 reversed the pain hypersensitivity and the increase in phosphorylated-ERK (p-ERK) and BDNF in DRG neurons induced by complete Freund's adjuvant. On the other hand, axotomy induced the activation of ERK mainly in medium-and large-sized DRG neurons and in satellite glial cells. U0126 suppressed the axotomy-induced autotomy behavior and reversed the increase in p-ERK and BDNF. The intrathecal application of nerve growth factor (NGF) induced an increase in the number of p-ERK-and BDNF-labeled cells, mainly small neurons, and the application of anti-NGF induced an increase in p-ERK and BDNF in some medium-to-large-diameter DRG neurons. The activation of MAPK in the primary afferents may occur in different populations of DRG neurons after peripheral inflammation and axotomy, respectively, through alterations in the target-derived NGF. These changes, including the changes in BDNF expression, might be involved in the pathophysiological changes in primary afferent neurons.
One of the first steps in the coding of olfactory information is the transformation of synaptic input to action potential firing in mitral and tufted (M/T) cells of the mammalian olfactory bulb. However, little is known regarding the synaptic mechanisms underlying this process in vivo. In this study, we examined odor-evoked response patterns of M/T and granule cells using whole-cell recording in anesthetized, freely breathing rats. We find that odor-evoked excitatory responses in M/T cells typically consist of bursts of action potentials coupled to the approximately 2 Hz respiration rhythm. Odor-evoked, rhythmic M/T cell excitation is reliable during odor presentation (2-4 sec); in contrast, both excitatory responses of granule cells and M/T cell lateral inhibition adapt quickly after the first respiration cycle in the presence of odorants. We also find that the amplitude and initial slope of odor-evoked synaptic excitation play an important role in regulating the timing of M/T cell spikes. Furthermore, differences in odor concentration alter the shape of odor-evoked excitatory synaptic responses, the latency of M/T cell spikes, and the timing of M/T cell lateral inhibition.
The molecular mechanisms mediating degeneration of midbrain dopamine neurons in Parkinson's disease (PD) are poorly understood. Here, we provide evidence to support a role for the involvement of the calcium-dependent proteases, calpains, in the loss of dopamine neurons in a mouse model of PD. We show that administration of N-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP) evokes an increase in calpain-mediated proteolysis in nigral dopamine neurons in vivo. Inhibition of calpain proteolysis using either a calpain inhibitor (MDL-28170) or adenovirus-mediated overexpression of the endogenous calpain inhibitor protein, calpastatin, significantly attenuated MPTP-induced loss of nigral dopamine neurons. Commensurate with this neuroprotection, MPTP-induced locomotor deficits were abolished, and markers of striatal postsynaptic activity were normalized in calpain inhibitor-treated mice. However, behavioral improvements in MPTP-treated, calpain inhibited mice did not correlate with restored levels of striatal dopamine. These results suggest that protection against nigral neuron degeneration in PD may be sufficient to facilitate normalized locomotor activity without necessitating striatal reinnervation. Immunohistochemical analyses of postmortem midbrain tissues from human PD cases also displayed evidence of increased calpain-related proteolytic activity that was not evident in age-matched control subjects. Taken together, our findings provide a potentially novel correlation between calpain proteolytic activity in an MPTP model of PD and the etiology of neuronal loss in PD in humans.
We describe a novel mechanism for vital fluorescent dye entry into sensory cells and neurons: permeation through ion channels. In addition to the slow conventional uptake of styryl dyes by endocytosis, small styryl dyes such as FM1-43 rapidly and specifically label hair cells in the inner ear by entering through open mechanotransduction channels. This labeling can be blocked by pharmacological or mechanical closing of the channels. This phenomenon is not limited to hair cell transduction channels, because human embryonic kidney 293T cells expressing the vanilloid receptor (TRPV1) or a purinergic receptor (P2X2) rapidly take up FM1-43 when those receptor channels are opened and not when they are pharmacologically blocked. This channel permeation mechanism can also be used to label many sensory cell types in vivo. A single subcutaneous injection of FM1-43 (3 mg/kg body weight) in mice brightly labels hair cells, Merkel cells, muscle spindles, taste buds, enteric neurons, and primary sensory neurons within the cranial and dorsal root ganglia, persisting for several weeks. The pattern of labeling is specific; nonsensory cells and neurons remain unlabeled. The labeling of the sensory neurons requires dye entry through the sensory terminal, consistent with permeation through the sensory channels. This suggests that organic cationic dyes are able to pass through a number of different sensory channels. The bright and specific labeling with styryl dyes provides a novel way to study sensory cells and neurons in vivo and in vitro, and it offers new opportunities for visually assaying sensory channel function.
We investigated the use of the mouse tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) gene to drive knock-in constructs in catecholaminergic neurons. Two targeting constructs representing truncated forms of either of the BMP receptors ALK-2 or BMPR-II preceded by an internal ribosome entry site (IRES) were introduced into the 3' untranslated region of TH. An frt-flanked neomycin-resistance (neo(r)) cassette was placed in the 3' end of the targeting constructs. Mice homozygous for the knock-in alleles showed various degrees of hypokinetic behavior, depending mainly on whether the neo(r) cassette was removed. In situ hybridization and immunohistochemistry showed that TH mRNA and protein were variously down-regulated in these mouse strains. Reduced levels of dopamine and noradrenalin were found in several brain areas. However, number and morphology of neurons in substantia nigra and their projections to striatum appeared normal in the neo(r)-positive TH hypomorphic mice as examined by markers for L-aromatic amino acid decarboxylase and the dopamine transporter. Elimination of the neo(r) cassette from the knock-in alleles partially restored TH and dopamine levels. The present neo(r)-positive TH hypomorphic mice show that nigrostriatal innervation develops independently of TH and should find use as a model for conditions of reduced catecholamine synthesis, as seen in, for example, L-dihydroxyphenylalanine-responsive dystonia/infantile parkinsonism.
Orexin (hypocretin)-containing projections from lateral hypothalamus (LH) are thought to play an important role in the regulation of feeding behaviour and energy balance. In rodent studies, central administration of orexin peptides increases food intake, and orexin neurones in the LH are activated by hypoglycaemia during fasting. In addition, administration of orexins into the fourth ventricle or the dorsal motor nucleus of the vagus (DMV) has been shown to stimulate gastric acid secretion and motility, respectively, via vagal efferent pathways. In this study, whole-cell recordings were obtained from DMV neurones in rat brainstem slices to investigate the cellular mechanism(s) by which orexins produce their gastrostimulatory effects. To determine whether responsiveness to orexins might be differentially expressed among distinct populations of preganglionic vagal motor neurones, recordings were made from neurones whose projections to the gastrointestinal tract had been identified by retrograde labelling following apposition of the fluorescent tracer DiI to the gastric fundus, corpus or antrum/pylorus, the duodenum or caecum. Additionally, the responses of neurones to orexins were compared with those produced by oxytocin, which acts within the DMV to stimulate gastric acid secretion, but inhibits gastric motor function. Bath application of orexin-A or orexin-B (30-300 nM) produced a slow depolarization, accompanied by increased firing in 47 of 102 DMV neurones tested, including 70 % (30/43) of those that projected to the gastric fundus or corpus. In contrast, few DMV neurones that supplied the antrum/pylorus (3/13), duodenum (4/18) or caecum (1/13) were responsive to these peptides. The depolarizing responses were concentration dependent and persisted during synaptic isolation of neurones with TTX or Cd2+, indicating they resulted from activation of postsynaptic orexin receptors. They were also associated with a small increase in membrane resistance, and in voltage-clamp recordings orexin-A induced an inward current that reversed near the estimated equilibrium potential for K+, indicating the depolarization was due in large part to a reduction in K+ conductance. Orexins did not affect synaptically evoked excitation, but did reduce membrane excitability in a subset of gastric-projecting DMV neurones by enhancing GABA-mediated synaptic input. Lastly, although many DMV neurones responded to orexins and oxytocin with excitation, for the most part these peptides modulated excitability of distinct populations of gastric-projecting vagal motor neurones. These results indicate that orexins act preferentially within the DMV to directly excite vagal motor neurones that project to gastric fundus and corpus. In this way, release of endogenous orexins from descending hypothalamic projections into the DMV may mediate the increase in gastric acid secretion and motor activity associated with the cephalic phase of feeding.
We used whole-cell recordings to investigate subthreshold membrane potential oscillations and their relationship with intermittent firing in striatal fast-spiking interneurons. During current injections (100-500 pA, 1 s), these cells displayed a highly variable pattern of spike bursts (comprising 1-30 action potentials) interspersed with membrane potential oscillations. The oscillation threshold was -42 +/- 10 mV, and coincided with that for action potentials. The oscillation frequency was voltage dependent and ranged between 20 and 100 Hz. Oscillations were unaffected by the calcium channel blockers cadmium and nickel and by blockers of ionotropic glutamate and GABA receptors. Conversely, the sodium channel blocker tetrodotoxin fully abolished the oscillations and the spike bursts. The first spike of a burst appeared to be triggered by an oscillation, since the timing and rate of rise of the membrane potential in the subthreshold voltage region was similar for the two events. Conversely, the second spike (and the subsequent ones) displayed much faster depolarisations in the subthreshold voltage range, indicating that they were generated by a different mechanism. Consistent with these notions, a small pulse of intracellular current delivered during the oscillation was effective in triggering a burst of action potentials that largely outlasted the pulse. We conclude that fast-spiking interneuron oscillations are generated by an intrinsic membrane mechanism that does not require fast synaptic transmission, and which depends on sodium conductance but not calcium conductance, and that such oscillations are responsible for triggering the intermittent spike bursts that are typical of these neurons.
In neuronal cells, the influx of Ca2+ ions through voltage-dependent L-type calcium (L) channels couples excitation to multiple cellular functions. In addition to voltage, several neurotransmitters, hormones and cytokines regulate L channel gating via binding to G-protein-coupled receptors. Intracellular molecules that modify G-protein activity - such as regulator of G-protein-signalling (RGS) proteins - are therefore potential candidates for regulating Ca2+ influx through L channels. Here we show that a novel RGS2 splice variant from chick dorsal root ganglion (DRG) neurons, RGS2L, reduces bradykinin (BK)-mediated inhibition of neuronal L channels and accelerates recovery from inhibition. Chick RGS2 reduces the inhibition mediated by both the pertussis toxin (PTX)-sensitive (Gi/o-coupled) and the PTX-insensitive (presumably Gq/11-coupled) pathways. However, we demonstrate for the first time in a living cell that the extent of coupling to each pathway varies with RGS2L concentration. A low concentration of recombinant chick RGS2L (10 nM) preferentially reduces the inhibition mediated by the PTX-insensitive pathway, whereas a 100-fold higher concentration attenuates both PTX-sensitive- and PTX-insensitive-mediated components equally. Our data suggest that factors promoting RGS2L gene induction may regulate Ca2+ influx through L channels by recruiting low-affinity interactions with Gi/o that are absent at basal RGS2L levels.
We investigated in vivo effects of the L-type calcium channel agonist 1,4-dihydro-2,6-dimethyl-5-nitro-4-[2-(trifluoromethyl) phenyl] pyridine-3-carboxylic acid ((+/-)-Bay K8644) on mitochondrial monoamine oxidase (MAO) activity and striatal dopamine (DA) content employing fluorimetric and HPLC-electrochemical procedures, respectively. (+/-)-Bay K8644 administration resulted in visible behavioral dysfunctions in mice. A reversible dose-independent inhibition of striatal DA levels and a significant increase in the brain mitochondrial MAO-A and -B activities were observed in animals treated with the calcium agonist. A positive relationship between the rise in the enzyme activity and decrease in DA content in (+/-)-Bay K8644 treated animals indicates a direct, but transient effect of this channel activator on DA metabolism, which may be related to acute behavioral syndromes exhibited following administration of the drug. Moreover, a direct involvement of L-type dihydropyridine sensitive calcium channels is indicated in this action, since nicardipine could effectively attenuate (+/-)-Bay K8644-induced behavioral aberrations, or block the striatal DA depletion and the increase in MAO activity. The present results have far-reaching implications in neuropharmacological research, where co-treatment of calcium channel drugs and MAO inhibitors are warranted.
Estrogens exhibit complex but beneficial effects on brain structure, function and behavior. Soy-derived dietary phytoestrogens protect against hormone-dependent and age-related diseases, due to their estrogen-like hormonal actions. However, the effects of phytoestrogens on brain and behavior are relatively unknown. This study examined the influence of exposing male Long-Evans rats (lifelong) to either a phytoestrogen-rich (Phyto-600) or a phytoestrogen-free (Phyto-free) diet on body weights, behavioral pain thresholds, the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) hormonal stress response, hippocampal glucocorticoid receptor and brain neural cell adhesion molecules (NCAM) and synaptophysin levels using standard behavioral and biochemical techniques. Body weights were significantly decreased in Phyto-600 fed animals compared to Phyto-free values. There were no significant changes in behavioral pain thresholds, circulating corticosterone concentrations (after acute immobilization stress) or NCAM and synaptophysin levels in various brain regions by the diet treatments. However, Phyto-600 fed males displayed significantly higher plasma adrenocorticotrophin (ACTH) (post-stress) and hippocampal glucocorticoid receptor levels vs. Phyto-free values. These data suggest that (1) body weights are significantly reduced by soy-derived phytoestrogens, (2) behavioral pain thresholds (via heat stimuli) are not influenced by dietary phytoestrogens, but (3) these estrogenic molecules in the hippocampus enhance glucocorticoid receptor abundance and alter the negative feedback of stress hormones towards a female-like pattern of higher ACTH release after activation of the HPA stress axis. This study is the first to show that lifelong consumption of dietary phytoestrogens alters the HPA stress response in male rats.
In this study we sought to investigate whether the dopamine transporter, DAT, and its binding sites are expressed in the human amniotic epithelial cells (HAEC) using reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) and radioligand binding studies, respectively. The RT-PCR findings showed that HAEC expressed DAT mRNA with 100% homology to the human brain DAT. Saturation binding studies using [3H]mazindol showed a high affinity DAT binding site with K(D) and B(max) values of 12.32+/-1.67 nM and 82.7+/-9.74 fmol/mg protein, respectively. Competition experiments showed that selective DAT blockers are potent displacers of [3H]mazindol binding. The rank order of potency of the competing drugs is consistent with the pharmacology of the DAT. The present results provide compelling evidence that HAEC natively express the DAT mRNA and binding sites. More importantly, these results may suggest that HAEC is an appropriate human cell model for studying dopamine release and uptake processes and potential ligands at these sites.

The mRNA of Scamper, a putative intracellular calcium channel activated by sphingosylphosphocholine, contains a long 5' transcript leader with several upstream AUGs. In this work we have investigated the role this sequence plays in the translational control of Scamper expression. The cytosolic transcription machinery of a T7 RNA polymerase recombinant vaccinia virus was used to avoid artifacts arising from cryptic promoters or mRNA processing. Based on transient transfection experiments of dicistronic and bi-monocistronic plasmids expressing reporter genes, we present evidence that the 5' transcript leader of Scamper contains a functional internal ribosome entry site (IRES). Our data indicate that Scamper translation in Madin-Darby canine kidney cells is driven by a cap-independent mechanism supported by the IRES activity of its mRNA. Finally, the Scamper IRES appears to be the first IRES with specificity for kidney epithelial cells.

In a previous investigation we have demonstrated that neonatal rat pineal may become photosensitive if removed from the animal at post-natal day 1 and cultured for 7 days. In the present study we demonstrated that Aa-nat mRNA, the key enzyme in melatonin biosynthetic pathway, is affected by illumination in photosensitive pineal, and Aa-nat transcription in photosensitive pineal, but not in adult or non photosensitive pineals, is up-regulated by BMAL1:CLOCK.
Regenerating goldfish retinal explants cultured on poly-L-lysine overlaid with membranes isolated from 21-day regenerating 1/3 anterior optic tectum (Ant. OTec) exhibited extensive defasciculated neurite outgrowth. Heparatinase treatment of membranes caused the complete inhibition of neurite outgrowth on that substrate. Western blot analysis showed that the OTec membranes contain a 300 kDa heparan sulfate proteoglycan. Explants cultured on 21-day regenerating 1/3 Ant. OTec membranes in the presence of 1 mM beta-xyloside, an axonal proteoglycan synthesis inhibitor, showed a significant reduction in the number of neurites per explant and in the average neurite length. Taken all together, the present results provide evidence that a 300-kDa membrane HSPG present in the Ant. OTec is necessary for axonal outgrowth and that axonal PGs are involved in modulating outgrowth on 21-day regenerating 1/3 Ant. OTec membranes.
Tau protein is one of the major microtubule-associated proteins of the vertebrate nervous system. Some kinds of isoforms, for example, six isoforms in humans, are generated from a single gene by alternative mRNA splicing. The expression of tau protein is widely believed to be developmentally and pathologically regulated. We examined developmental changes in tau protein from humans, rats, mice, and guinea pigs to determine the universal function of each isoform. Tau isoforms, composed of variants in the amino terminal and carboxyl terminal regions, gradually shifted through development in protein. The developmental changes in the carboxyl terminal region were found to be conserved in all species in which three-repeat tau isoforms were dominant in the fetus or neonate, while four-repeat tau isoforms were dominant in adult brain. On the other hand, the changes in the amino terminal region were not identical in these species. These observations were confirmed using isoform-specific antibodies which could discriminate the numbers of amino-terminus insertions and carboxy-terminus repeat insertions. Developmental regulation of 3- and 4-repeat tau isoforms may contribute to axonal development and neural plasticity.

The authors surveyed 100 outpatients with dementia during the 2 months following the November 2000 US presidential election. A majority (60%) of respondents voted. Increasing severity of dementia was associated with reduced knowledge about the election as well as reduced voting participation by patients and caregivers. Actively voting persons had general knowledge about the election as evidenced by matching candidate photographs with name and party labels.
One hundred seventy-six consecutive patients treated with IV tissue plasminogen activator (tPA) for acute ischemic stroke were examined prospectively, and orolingual angioedema was found in nine (5.1%; 95% CI 2.3 to 9.5). The reaction was typically mild, transient, and contralateral to the ischemic hemisphere. Risk of angioedema was associated with angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (relative risk [RR] 13.6; 95% CI 3.0 to 62.7) and signs on initial CT of ischemia in the insular and frontal cortex (RR 9.1; 95% CI 1.4 to 30.0).

The generic membrane trafficking signals of internal RXR and carboxyl-terminal KKXX motifs direct intracellular endoplasmic reticulum (ER) localization of the signal-bearing proteins. These signaling motifs play a critical role in partitioning proteins into designated subcellular compartments by functioning as an intracellular &quot;zip code.&quot; In the process of determining the potential distinctions between these two otherwise functionally identical motifs, two functional zones of these signals were revealed. The KKXX signal was effective only when it was positioned closer to the membrane surface. In contrast, under identical conditions, the internal RXR signal was functional when it was positioned distally from the membrane. Different from the C-terminal KKXX signal, the internal RXR motif may be present in multiple copies. The receptor with multivalent RXR motifs displayed similar trafficking behavior to that of the same receptor with one copy of the RXR motif. The distinctive operating ranges from their anchored membrane surface provide experimental evidence for the notion that there are functional zoning layers within which membrane protein signal motifs are active.
Dietary restriction has been shown to have several health benefits including increased insulin sensitivity, stress resistance, reduced morbidity, and increased life span. The mechanism remains unknown, but the need for a long-term reduction in caloric intake to achieve these benefits has been assumed. We report that when C57BL6 mice are maintained on an intermittent fasting (alternate-day fasting) dietary-restriction regimen their overall food intake is not decreased and their body weight is maintained. Nevertheless, intermittent fasting resulted in beneficial effects that met or exceeded those of caloric restriction including reduced serum glucose and insulin levels and increased resistance of neurons in the brain to excitotoxic stress. Intermittent fasting therefore has beneficial effects on glucose regulation and neuronal resistance to injury in these mice that are independent of caloric intake.
Nifedipine, a drug used for treatment of hypertension and angina, exerts its effect by calcium channel blockade and nitric oxide production. We report here a previously uncharacterized action of nifedipine on central synaptic transmission that may partially explain its side effects. Nifedipine causes a long-lasting facilitation of tetrodotoxin-insensitive spontaneous glutamate release. This effect is independent of its L-type calcium channel blocking effect, and is not mimicked by other dihydropyridines such as nimodipine, nicardipine, or Bay K 8644. The effect was dose dependent, with EC(50) of 7.8 microM, with the lowest effective dose being 100 nM, a clinically relevant dose. At 10 microM, the increase is 14.7-fold. This effect is largely calcium-independent, because Cd(2+), thapsigargin, or BAPTA-AM [1,2-bis(2-aminophenoxy)ethane-N,N,N',N'-tetraacetic acid-acetoxymethyl ester] did not inhibit the nifedipine effect. Thus, nifedipine seems to act on the release process downstream of calcium entry or release. Protein kinases A or C do not mediate its effect, because it is not blocked by inhibitors of these kinases. Our finding indicates that nifedipine may be a useful tool as a secretagogue to directly target the release process, but raises caution for its use as an L-type calcium channel blocker.
It is well accepted that neuropeptide Y (NPY) plays a pivotal role in the regulation of food intake and energy homeostasis in the rodent, with NPY neurons in the arcuate nucleus (ARH) being thought of as the major contributor to the complex central feeding circuitry. Recent data from our group also indicate that NPY is important in the regulation of energy homeostasis in the nonhuman primate (NHP); exogenous NPY administration into the 3rd ventricle is a potent stimulator of food intake in the male rhesus macaque. The purpose of this study was to determine if NPY neurons in the rhesus macaque respond to a metabolic challenge, induced by 48 h of fasting, in a manner similar to that seen in the rodent. NPY mRNA was detected in hypothalamic sections from 48-h fasted or fed rhesus monkeys by in situ hybridization, using a [35S]UTP-labeled riboprobe specific for human NPY. Not surprisingly, NPY mRNA was abundant in the ARH of the NHP; however, of great interest was the expression of NPY mRNA in neurons within the paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus (PVH) and the supraoptic nucleus (SON). This raised the question as to whether all of these populations of NPY neurons are sensitive to changes in energy availability. Indeed, NPY expression in the ARH and PVH was significantly elevated in response to fasting; however, no significant change was detected in the SON. These data indicate that the NPY neurocircuitry involved in the regulation of food intake is more complex in the NHP than in rodents.
Cyclic AMP is a very important regulator in a wide range of biological processes, including inflammatory reactions. To investigate the role of cAMP in microglia, we examined the effect of dibutyryl-cAMP (dbcAMP) on lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-stimulated cytokine expression and signaling pathways in murine BV2 microglial cells. DbcAMP strongly suppressed LPS-induced TNF-alpha expression, without affecting NO, IL-6 or TGF-beta1 expression. In contrast, LPS-induced IL-1beta or IL-10 expressions were dramatically increased by dbcAMP. We further examined the effect of elevated cAMP on signaling molecules such as MAP kinases (p38 MAPK, ERK and JNK), NF-kappaB and AP1, which are involved in the regulation of inflammatory responses. DbcAMP decreased the LPS-induced phosphorylation of p38 MAPK, while it modestly enhanced the ERK activity. JNK phosphorylation was slightly reduced by dbcAMP only at the later time point. Electrophoretic mobility shift assay revealed that the elevated cAMP potentiated AP-1 binding activity by enhancing c-fos binding. On the other hand, dbcAMP repressed NF-kappaB-mediated transcription without affecting NF-kappaB binding. Treatment with H89, a selective inhibitor of protein kinase A, completely reversed cAMP-induced IL-10 and IL-1beta upregulation but only partially reversed the cAMP-induced repression of TNF-alpha. Thus, the effect of dbcAMP in BV2 cells appears to be mediated through both protein kinase A-dependent and -independent pathways. Taken together, our results demonstrate that cAMP modulates microglia activation in a diverse and complex manner.
We have previously defined a crucial DNA element controlling 90% of the expression of the presenilin 1 gene at (-35 to +6). This region contains an Ets transcription factor binding motif, and a 2-base pair alteration within the core sequence (GGAA to TTAA) of the Ets consensus also reduced transcription by over 90%. We have shown that Ets1/2 transcription factors bind specifically to the -10 Ets element and activate PS1 transcription. The identification of other transcription factors recognizing specifically this promoter area should provide insights into the regulation of PS1. We have used the -10 Ets element as a bait in yeast one hybrid screening of a human brain cDNA library. This assay selected three factors from the Ets family: Ets2, ER81 and Elk1. We show that in vitro translated ER81 indeed binds specifically to the -10 region of the PS1 promoter and that ER81 activates by two- to threefold the basal transcription of a presenilin-1 promoter-chloramphenicol acetyltransferase reporter synthetic gene (-119, +178)PS1CAT in transient infection assays in neuroblastoma cells (SK-N-SH). GABPalpha, a member of the Ets family closely related to Ets2 and also containing a pointed domain, only increased PS1 transcription by about twofold. Cotransfection of GABPbeta together with GABPalpha did not increase PS1 transcription. However, GABPbeta alone activated PS1 transcription by two- to threefold. In contrast, the more distantly related Ets factor Elk1 repressed PS1 transcription very effectively.
We have previously shown that exposure to environmentally relevant levels of Pb(2+) during brain development decreases the expression of N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor (NMDAR) subunit 1 (NR1) and NR2A genes in the hippocampus of young adult rats and was associated with deficits in hippocampal LTP and spatial learning [Neuroscience 99 (2000) 233-242]. In the present study, we demonstrate that the lower levels of NR1 subunit mRNA expressed in the Pb(2+)-exposed hippocampus are principally due to decreased levels of the NR1-4 and NR1-2 splice variants. These changes were present in the absence of changes in GluR1, PSD-95 and alphaCaMKII gene expression. A unique characteristic of these splice variants is that they lack the C1 cassette. Further, these splice variants have been shown to impart the highest cell surface expression, PKC potentiation and calcium kinetics to NMDAR complexes. Our present findings indicate that Pb(2+)-induced changes in NR1 subunit splice variant mRNA expression in the hippocampus may provide a mechanism by which Pb(2+)-exposure can modify NMDAR-mediated calcium signaling and influence the degree of synaptic plasticity.
Neurofilaments possess side arms that comprise the carboxy-terminal domains of neurofilament middle and heavy chains (NFM and NFH); that of NFH is heavily phosphorylated in axons. Here, we demonstrate that phosphorylation of NFH side arms is a mechanism for regulating transport of neurofilaments through axons. Mutants in which known NFH phosphorylation sites were mutated to preclude phosphorylation or mimic permanent phosphorylation display altered rates of transport in a bulk transport assay. Similarly, application of roscovitine, an inhibitor of the NFH side arm kinase Cdk5/p35, accelerates neurofilament transport. Analyses of neurofilament movement in transfected living neurons demonstrated that a mutant mimicking permanent phosphorylation spent a higher proportion of time pausing than one that could not be phosphorylated. Thus, phosphorylation of NFH slows neurofilament transport, and this is due to increased pausing in neurofilament movement.
Gap junctions regulate a variety of cell functions by directly connecting two cells through intercellular channels. Connexins are gap junction channel-forming protein subunits. In this study, we studied the expression of connexin 36 (Cx36) in the olfactory epithelium and olfactory bulb of adult mice. In situ hybridization revealed that mRNA for Cx36 was expressed in the olfactory sensory epithelium, main olfactory bulb and accessory olfactory bulb. Expression of mRNA encoding Cx36 was observed in the olfactory epithelium mainly in ventral and lateral regions of the turbinates. Immunohistochemical determination of Cx36 protein expression showed sparse punctuate staining in the olfactory epithelial layer. Intense Cx36-like immunostaining was found in the olfactory nerve bundles underlying the olfactory epithelium and in the olfactory nerve layer and glomerular layer of the olfactory bulb. Mapping of the intensity of Cx36-like immunofluorescence in glomeruli throughout the main olfactory bulb indicated a heterogeneous distribution. A set of approximately 50 glomeruli located in the anterior and posterior limits of the olfactory bulb was more intensely labeled than other glomeruli. There was intense immunofluorescence signal in the glomerular layer of the accessory olfactory bulb and in the vomeronasal nerve. beta-Galactosidase distribution in the olfactory epithelium and olfactory bulb in Cx36 knockout mice (Deans et al. [2001] Neuron 31:477-485) supported the findings with immunofluorescence. Cx36-like immunofluorescence was absent in the olfactory nerve bundles in Cx36 knockout mice. The immunolocalization of Cx36 to the olfactory and vomeronasal nerves, and a subset of olfactory glomeruli suggest a functional role for Cx36 in odor coding.

The function of the nervous system relies upon synaptic transmission, a process in which a neurotransmitter released from pre-synaptic terminals of one neuron (in response to membrane depolarization and calcium influx) activates post-synaptic receptors on dendrites of another neuron. Synapses are subjected to repeated bouts of oxidative and metabolic stress as the result of changing ion gradients and ATP usage. Mitochondria play central roles in meeting the demands of synapses for ATP and in regulating calcium homeostasis, and mitochondrial dysfunction can cause dysfunction and degeneration of synapses, and can trigger cell death. We have identified two types of mitochondrial proteins that serve the function of protecting synapses and neurons against dysfunction and death. Mitochondrial ATP-sensitive potassium (MitoKATP) channels modulate inner membrane potential and oxyradical production; mitochondrial potassium fluxes can affect cytochrome c release and caspase activation and may determine whether neurons live or die in experimental models of stroke and Alzheimer's disease. Uncoupling proteins (UCPs) are a family of mitochondrial membrane proteins that uncouple electron transport from ATP production by transporting protons across the inner membrane. Neurons express at least three UCPs including the widely expressed UCP-2 and the neuron-specific UCP-4 and UCP-5 (BMCP-1). We have found that UCP-4 protects neurons against apoptosis by a mechanism involving suppression of oxyradical production and stabilization of cellular calcium homeostasis. The expression of UCP-4 is itself regulated by changes in energy metabolism. In addition to their roles in neuronal cell survival and death, MitoKATP channels and UCPs may play roles in regulating neuronal differentiation during development and synaptic plasticity in the adult.
The pseudopeptide [Nphe(1)]N/OFQ(1-13)NH(2) (Nphe) has been shown to act as a pure, selective and competitive antagonist of nociceptin/orphanin FQ (N/OFQ) receptors in different tissues. However, Nphe displayed a highly variable potency, with pA(2) values ranging from 5.96 to 8.45. In the present study, we show that sodium ions and GTP markedly affect the potency of Nphe in blocking N/OFQ receptors coupled to cyclic AMP inhibition in different cellular systems. In intact N1E-115 neuroblastoma cells, the pA(2) value of Nphe increased from 7.13 to 8.02 when the extracellular sodium concentration was reduced from 138 to 2.5 mM. When N/OFQ inhibition of adenylyl cyclase activity was assayed in cell membranes, 100 mM NaCl decreased the pK(i) value of Nphe from 8.38 to 7.32, but increased that of the nonpeptide N/OFQ receptor antagonist CompB from 8.61 to 8.92. Similar effects of sodium ions on the potencies of Nphe and CompB were observed when the compounds were used to antagonize the N/OFQ inhibition of adenylyl cyclase activity in membranes of the external plexiform layer of the rat olfactory bulb. In the same assay, the increase of GTP concentration from 0.1 to 200 micro M decreased Nphe potency by 8-fold. These data demonstrate that sodium ions and GTP affect the potency of Nphe in a manner similar to that of agonists but not of pure antagonists and suggest that these factors may contribute to the reported variability of Nphe affinity constant.
The segregation of initially intermingled left and right eye inputs to the dorsal lateral geniculate nucleus (DLGN) during development is thought to be in response to precise spatial and temporal patterns of spontaneous ganglion cell activity. To test this hypothesis, we disrupted the correlated activity of neighboring ganglion cells in the developing ferret retina through immunotoxin depletion of starburst amacrine cells. Despite the absence of this type of correlated activity, left and right eye inputs segregated normally in the DLGN. By contrast, when all spontaneous activity was blocked, the projections from the two eyes remained intermingled. Thus, certain features of normal neural activity patterns are not required for the formation of eye-specific projections to the DLGN.

In mammals, an example of planar cell polarity (PCP) is the uniform orientation of the hair cell stereociliary bundles within the cochlea. The PCP pathway of Drosophila refers to a conserved signalling pathway that regulates the coordinated orientation of cells or structures within the plane of an epithelium. Here we show that a mutation in Vangl2, a mammalian homologue of the Drosophila PCP gene Strabismus/Van Gogh, results in significant disruptions in the polarization of stereociliary bundles in mouse cochlea as a result of defects in the direction of movement and/or anchoring of the kinocilium within each hair cell. Similar, but less severe, defects are observed in animals containing a mutation in the LAP protein family gene Scrb1 (homologous with Drosophila scribble). Polarization defects in animals heterozygous for Vangl2 and Scrb1 are comparable with Vangl2 homozygotes, demonstrating genetic interactions between these genes in the regulation of PCP in mammals. These results demonstrate a role for the PCP pathway in planar polarization in mammals, and identify Scrb1 as a PCP gene.
Neurophysiological events responsible for different types of human memory tend to occur concurrently and are therefore difficult to measure independently. To surmount this problem, we produced perceptual priming (indicated by speeded responses) in the absence of conscious remembering. At encoding, faces appeared briefly while subjects' attention was diverted to other stimuli. Faces appeared again in either an implicit or explicit memory test. Neural correlates of priming were identified as brain potentials beginning 270 ms after face onset with more negative amplitudes for repeated than for new faces. Remembered faces, in contrast, activated a different configuration of intracranial sources producing positive potentials maximal at 600-700 ms. We thus disentangled and characterized distinct neural events associated with memory with and without awareness.
Neuronal excitability and long-term synaptic plasticity at excitatory synapses are critically dependent on the level of inhibition, and accordingly, changes of inhibitory synaptic efficacy should have great impact on neuronal function and neural network processing. We describe here a form of activity-dependent long-term depression at hippocampal inhibitory synapses that is triggered postsynaptically via glutamate receptor activation but is expressed presynaptically. That is, glutamate released by repetitive activation of Schaffer collaterals activates group I metabotropic glutamate receptors at CA1 pyramidal cells, triggering a persistent reduction of GABA release that is mediated by endocannabinoids. This heterosynaptic form of plasticity is involved in changes of pyramidal cell excitability associated with long-term potentiation at excitatory synapses and could account for the effects of cannabinoids on learning and memory.
To study the role of NT3 in directing axonal projections of proprioceptive dorsal root ganglion (DRG) neurons, NT3(-/-) mice were crossed with mice carrying a targeted deletion of the proapoptotic gene Bax. In Bax(-/-)/NT3(-/-) mice, NT3-dependent neurons survived and expressed the proprioceptive neuronal marker parvalbumin. Initial extension and collateralization of proprioceptive axons into the spinal cord occurred normally, but proprioceptive axons extended only as far as the intermediate spinal cord. This projection defect is similar to the defect in mice lacking the ETS transcription factor ER81. Few if any DRG neurons from Bax(-/-)/NT3(-/-) mice expressed ER81 protein. Expression of a NT3 transgene in muscle restored DRG ER81 expression in NT3(-/-) mice. Finally, addition of NT3 to DRG explant cultures resulted in induction of ER81 protein. Our data indicate that NT3 mediates the formation of proprioceptive afferent-motor neuron connections via regulation of ER81.
We investigated the existence of a cross-modal sensory gating reflected by the modulation of an early electrophysiological index, the P50 component. We analyzed event-related brain potentials elicited by audiovisual speech stimuli manipulated along two dimensions: congruency and discriminability. The results showed that the P50 was attenuated when visual and auditory speech information were redundant (i.e. congruent), in comparison with this same event-related potential component elicited with discrepant audiovisual dubbing. When hard to discriminate, however, bimodal incongruent speech stimuli elicited a similar pattern of P50 attenuation. We concluded to the existence of a visual-to-auditory cross-modal sensory gating phenomenon. These results corroborate previous findings revealing a very early audiovisual interaction during speech perception. Finally, we postulated that the sensory gating system included a cross-modal dimension.
The tectofugal system dominates vision in most avian species. A key component of this pathway is the projection from the optic tectum onto the nucleus rotundus and the nucleus subpretectalis. Since subpretectalis has inhibitory projections onto rotundus, it constitutes a modulatory tectofugal sidepath to the tectorotundal system. We analyzed the connections and the immunocytochemical pattern of the subpretectalis in pigeons and show that it receives afferents from some tectal celltypes and from the nucleus pretectalis. Subpretectalis-neurons project non-topographically onto pretectalis and the rostrolateral rotundus. In addition, our immunocytochemical data make it likely that the cells of the subpretectalis receive glutamatergic and GABAergic input. These data provide evidence that the tectofugal sidepath over the subpretectalis could be involved in two major functions: The first is a modulation of attentional shifts from one eye to the other, while the second is a temporal fine-tuning of rotundal units.
Activation of calcium permeable glutamate receptors is likely to be important for neuronal death associated with brain trauma, stroke and neurodegenerative diseases. Cobalt uptake can be used to identify cells containing Ca2+-permeable non-NMDA ionotropic glutamate receptors. However, the relative contribution of AMPA and kainate receptors, and also the role of receptor desensitization on the influx of Co2+, remain to be established. We found that the selective non-desensitizing activation of AMPA receptors was efficient in promoting Co2+ staining. However, the selective activation of kainate receptors, even under non-desensitizing conditions, did not result in Co2+ staining. Taken together, our results show that non-desensitizing stimulation of AMPA, but not of kainate receptors, mediates the influx of Co2+ in cultured rat hippocampal neurons.
The neuropeptide nociceptin/orphanin FQ (N/OFQ) is implicated in many biological functions, including nociception, locomotor activity, stress and anxiety, drinking and food-intake. N/OFQ has also been reported to play a facilitatory role in acute kainate-induced seizures. The aim of the present study was to investigate its involvement in a chronic model of temporal lobe epilepsy, kindling epileptogenesis, using N/OFQ knock-out mice and their wild-type littermates as controls. Kindling development was retarded in N/OFQ-deficient mice, in that (compared with controls) they required a significantly greater number of stimulations and a significantly longer time in electrical seizures to reach kindling criteria. These data indicate that N/OFQ is involved in the development of kindling and that it may play a pro-epileptogenic role.
Neurons producing vasodilation during reproductive activity constitute a large population of neurons in pelvic autonomic ganglia. We used intracellular recording, dye-filling and multiple-labeling immunohistochemistry to determine the morphology and electrophysiological properties of, and number of synaptic inputs to, vasodilator pelvic neurons in female guinea pigs. Vasodilator neurons, identified by their immunoreactivity for vasoactive intestinal peptide (VIP) and their location in paracervical ganglia, had simple dendritic arbors (1 primary dendrite) compared with nonvasodilator neurons (3 dendrites). Vasodilator neurons had more depolarized resting membrane potentials (-47 mV) than other paracervical neurons (-55 mV) and had smaller apparent cell capacitances (65 pF vs. 110 pF). Vasodilator and nonvasodilator neurons could not be distinguished on the basis of their action potential discharge characteristics or current voltage relationships. Most pelvic neurons ( approximately 70%) had tonic (slowly adapting) discharges. Fifty-five percent of vasodilator and 60% of nonvasodilator neurons showed inward rectification when hyperpolarized below -90 mV. Around 65% of neurons showed evidence of M-current. Both vasodilator and nonvasodilator neurons ( approximately 80%) expressed an A-like current. Vasodilator neurons and nonvasodilator neurons received 1-2 fast synaptic inputs following stimulation of pelvic or hypogastric nerve trunks. Most neurons received a least one strong synaptic input. These results indicate that vasodilator neurons and neighboring neurons projecting to other pelvic targets, primarily in the myometrium, express a similar range of ionic conductances and integrate few synaptic inputs. The similarities between these two populations of neurons may be related to their coactivation as part of spinal somato-pelvic reflexes. Vasodilation and uterine contraction during reproductive behavior in female guinea pigs are likely to involve input from preganglionic neurons at both lumbar and sacral spinal levels.
The Fragile X mental retardation syndrome is the largest source of inherited mental retardation. The syndrome usually results from the transcriptional silencing of the fragile X mental retardation gene (FMR1). To date the most prominent reported neuronal abnormalities for the fragile X mental retardation syndrome include a higher density of long thin spines similar to those found in sensory deprived and developing tissue, suggesting a possible deficit in pruning of immature spines. Dendrites on spiny stellate cells in the inner 1/3 of the barrel wall in layer IV of the rodent somatosensory cortex have been shown to exhibit developmental pruning similar to that affecting spines. To determine if FMRP plays a role in dendritic development, these neurons were examined in two strains of adult FMRP knockout (FraX) mice. FraX mice in both strains exhibited a greater amount of septa-oriented dendritic material, a morphology consistent with pre-pruning status early in development. This observation suggests that FMRP could be necessary for normal developmentally regulated dendritic pruning.
We have previously shown that colon irritation (CI) in neonates results in chronic visceral hypersensitivity in adult rats, associated with central neuronal sensitization in the absence of identifiable peripheral pathology. The purpose of this study is to assess the relative contribution of peripheral mechanisms to chronic visceral hypersensitivity by examining the changes in responses of primary afferents at thoracolumbar (TL) and lumbosacral (LS) spinal segments to graded colorectal distension (CRD). Afferent discharges were recorded at the cut distal ends of spinal dorsal roots (DRs) in adult control and CI rats. We found that: (1). the average threshold of activation of LS afferents decreased significantly in CI rats; (2). the responses of TL and LS afferents to CRD in CI rats were significantly greater than those in control; (3). the spontaneous activity of LS afferents in CI rats was significantly stronger than that in control; (4). in CI rats, the average responses to graded CRD of LS DRs were significantly higher than those of TL DRs; and (5). the number of both LS DRs and TL DRs activated by CRD in CI rats was significantly larger than control. In summary, the results show that chronic visceral hypersensitivity is associated with peripheral sensitization, as well as central sensitization. TL visceral afferents projecting seem to be more involved in the processing of sensitized nociceptive input from the colon than acute nociceptive input. However, LS afferents seem to be equally important in both sensitized and acute pain states.
A morphometric survey of brain size and forebrain commissures of 21 inbred mouse strains from the Jackson Laboratory was done with animals tested in two laboratories as part of the Mouse Phenome Project. Strain BTBR T/+ tf/tf was found to have 100% total absence of the corpus callosum as well as severe reduction of the hippocampal commissure in almost every animal, the most severe commissure defect observed to date in any commercially available mouse strain. The strain 129S1/SvImJ had a milder defect with incomplete penetrance. Crosses of BTBR mice with inbred strains BALB/cWah1, 129P1/ReJ, and the recombinant strain 9XCA/Wah having a severe commissure defect supported a two-locus model of the genetic defect in these strains. Brain size varied greatly among strains but for any one strain was almost identical in mice housed for 5 weeks in the two laboratories. Sex differences in brain weight and forebrain commissure sizes were not statistically significant.
Like naturally occurring neuronal cell death, stereotyped pruning of long axon branches to temporary targets is a widespread regressive phenomenon in the developing mammalian brain that helps sculpt the pattern of neuronal connections. The mechanisms controlling stereotyped pruning are, however, poorly understood. Here, we provide evidence that semaphorins, activating the Plexin-A3 receptor, function as retraction inducers to trigger-stereotyped pruning of specific hippocampal mossy fiber and pyramidal axon branches. Both pruning events are defective in Plexin-A3 mutants, reflecting a cell-autonomous requirement for Plexin-A3. The distribution of mRNAs for Sema3F and Sema3A makes them candidates for triggering the pruning. In vitro, hippocampal neurons respond to semaphorins by retracting axon branches. These results implicate semaphorins as retraction inducers controlling stereotyped pruning in the mammalian brain.
Speed and reliability of synaptic transmission are essential for information coding in neuronal networks and require the presence of clustered neurotransmitter receptors at the plasma membrane in precise apposition to presynaptic terminals. Receptor clusterization is the result of highly regulated processes involving functional and structural proteins. Among the structural elements, microtubules are known to play a crucial role in anchoring of gamma-aminobutyric acid, type A (GABA(A)) receptors. Here we show that microtubule depolymerization with nocodazole induces the declusterization of GABA(A) receptors and modifies the kinetic properties of GABAergic currents in cultured hippocampal neurons. In particular, this drug, applied either in the bath or via the patch pipette, induced the acceleration of the onset kinetics of miniature inhibitory postsynaptic currents (mIPSCs) without significantly affecting their frequency, thus suggesting a main postsynaptic site of action. After nocodazole treatment, current responses to ultrafast applications of GABA exhibited a faster rise time and an accelerated onset of desensitization. A quantitative analysis of GABA-evoked currents and model simulations suggest that declusterization affects the gating properties of GABA(A) receptors. In particular, a faster entry into the desensitized state of declustered GABA(A) receptors may account for the changes in the kinetic properties of mIPSCs after nocodazole treatment. Hence it appears that the clustered condition of GABA(A) receptors contributes in shaping GABAergic currents.
Maurocalcine (MCa) isolated from Scorpio maurus palmatus venom shares 82% sequence identity with imperatoxin A. Both scorpion toxins are putative mimics of the II-III loop peptide (termed peptide A (pA)) of alpha(1s)-dihydropyridine receptor and are thought to act at a common site on ryanodine receptor type 1 (RyR1) important for skeletal muscle EC coupling. The relationship between the actions of synthetic MCa (sMCa) and pA on RyR1 were examined. sMCa released Ca(2+) from SR vesicles (EC(50) = 17.5 nm) in a manner inhibited by micromolar ryanodine or ruthenium red. pA (0.5-40 microm) failed to induce SR Ca(2+) release. Rather, pA enhanced Ca(2+) loading into SR and fully inhibited Ca(2+)-, caffeine-, and sMCa-induced Ca(2+) release. The two peptides modified single channel gating behavior in distinct ways. With Cs(+)-carrying current, 10 nm to 1 microm sMCa induced long lived subconductances having 48% of the characteristic full open state and occasional transitions to 29% at either positive or negative holding potentials. In contrast, pA stabilized long lived channel closures with occasional burst transitions to 65% (s1) and 86% (s2) of the full conductance. The actions of pA and sMCa were observed in tandem. sMCa stabilized additional subconductance states proportional to pA-induced subconductances (i.e. 43% of pA-modified s1 and s2 substates), revealing a proportional gating mechanism. [(3)H]Ryanodine binding and surface plasmon resonance analyses indicated that the peptides did not interact by simple competition for a single class of mutually exclusive sites on RyR1 to produce proportional gating. The actions of sMCa were also observed with ryanodine-modified channels and channels deficient in immunophilin 12-kDa FK506-binding protein. These results provide evidence that sMCa and pA stabilize distinct RyR1 channel states through distinct mechanisms that allosterically stabilize gating states having proportional conductance.







In Antioquia, Colombia, investigators have recently discovered the largest family with the E280A mutation in the presenilin 1 gene that causes one type of familial Alzheimer's disease (FAD). The current study compares two groups within this family: those diagnosed with Alzheimer's disease (AD) in its early stage (nine subjects) and relatives (carriers) who did not show any signs of dementia (nine subjects). A battery of the following neuropsychological tests was administered to subjects in both groups: the Consortium to Establish a Registry for Alzheimer's Disease (CERAD), a Phonological Verbal Fluency test, the Visual &quot;A&quot; Cancellation Test, memory of three phrases, the Rey-Osterrieth Complex Figure, and the Trail Making Test Part A. Statistical analyses of the average test scores of each group showed that the AD group scored significantly (p &lt; 0.01 or p &lt; 0.05) lower on 29 of the 43 neuropsychological variables measured (67 percent). Therefore, this specific battery was useful in discriminating subjects with AD from their healthy relatives who are carriers of the disease. The AD group as a whole presented slight dementia with predominant deficits in memory, language, praxis, and attention. This profile is similar to those reported in subjects with sporadic AD in its early stage and confirms the findings found in other neuropsychological studies of subjects with FAD linked to mutations in chromosome 14.
Statistical genetics software packages for linkage analysis have their own unique constraints on the size and shape of the pedigrees they can process. As a result, researchers are often forced to exclude from analysis some individuals in a given family. Existing procedures for reducing pedigree size to fit computational constraints use arbitrary rules and are not interactive. However, judicious evaluation of which subject(s) to remove to minimize loss of information involves consideration of many factors, including informativeness owing to position in pedigree, availability of genotypic information, and quality of phenotypic information. Thus, automation of this task would be of significant benefit. We designed an interactive algorithm (PowerTrim) that provides the user access to detailed information with which to make informed decisions. In addition, PowerTrim checks for transcriptional and data-entry errors, which can be very time-consuming to localize manually.
In this study, we investigated the mechanism that links activation of N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptors to inhibition of voltage-gated sodium channels in isolated catfish cone horizontal cells. NMDA channels were activated in voltage-clamped cells incubated in low-calcium saline or dialyzed with the calcium chelator BAPTA to determine that calcium influx through NMDA channels is required for sodium channel modulation. To determine whether calcium influx through NMDA channels triggers calcium-induced calcium release (CICR), cells were loaded with the calcium-sensitive dye calcium green 2 and changes in relative fluorescence were measured in response to NMDA. Responses were compared with measurements obtained when caffeine depleted stores. Voltage-clamp studies demonstrated that CICR modulated sodium channels in a manner similar to that of NMDA. Blocking NMDA receptors with AP-7, blocking CICR with ruthenium red, depleting stores with caffeine, or dialyzing cells with calmodulin antagonists W-5 or peptide 290-309 all prevented sodium channel modulation. These results support the hypothesis that NMDA modulation of voltage-gated sodium channels in horizontal cells requires CICR and activation of a calmodulin-dependent signaling pathway.
Ninety male Sprague-Dawley rats were exposed to 1:1-h light-dark (LD1:1) cycles for 50-90 days, and then they were released into constant darkness (DD). During LD1:1 cycles, behavioral rhythms were gradually disintegrated, and circadian rhythms of locomotor activity, drinking, and urine 6-sulfatoxymelatonin excretion were eventually abolished. After release into DD, 44 (49%) rats showed arrhythmic behavior for &gt;10 days. Seven (8%) animals that remained arrhythmic for &gt;50 days in DD were exposed to brief light pulses or 12:12-h light-dark cycles, and then they restored their circadian rhythms. These results indicate that the circadian clock was stopped, at least functionally, by LD1:1 cycles and was restarted by subsequent light stimulation.
Recent studies suggest that the mesoaccumbens dopamine system undergoes neurochemical alterations as a result of restricted feeding conditions with access to sugars. This effect appears to be similar to the neuroadaptation resulting from drugs of abuse and may underlay some pathological feeding behaviors. To further investigate the cellular mechanisms of these alterations, the present study used quantitative autoradiography and in situ hybridization to assess dopamine membrane transporter (DAT) protein density and mRNA expression in restricted-fed and free-fed adult male rats. The restricted feeding regimen consisted of daily limited access to either a normally preferred sucrose solution (0.3 M) or a less preferred chow in a scheduled (i.e., contingent) fashion for 7 days. Restricted-fed rats with the contingent sucrose access lost less body weight, ate more total food, and drank more fluid than free-fed, contingent food, or noncontingent controls. In addition, these animals had selectively higher DAT binding in the nucleus accumbens and ventral tegmental area. This increase in protein binding also was accompanied by an increase in DAT mRNA levels in the ventral tegmental area. In contrast to the restricted-fed groups, no differential effect in DAT regulation was observed across free-fed groups. The observed alteration in behavior and DAT regulation suggest that neuroadaptation in the mesoaccumbens dopamine system develops in response to repeated feeding on palatable foods under dietary constraints. This supports the notion that similar cellular changes may be involved in restrictive eating disorders and bingeing.






The articular capsules between the thoracic vertebrae, which have physiologically different functions from those of other levels of the vertebrae, have yet to be subjected to neuro-anatomical and fine structural analysis. In the present study, we analyzed serial frozen sections of decalcified thoracic vertebrae in human fetuses, and identified the articular capsule tissue with its unique distribution of elastic fibers. The fine structure of the elastic fibers was studied by transmission electron microscopy. In the early-stage fetus, the fibrous membrane forming the lateral intervertebral articular capsule contained abundant thin elastic fibers consisting of microfibrils. In the late-stage fetus, the lateral capsule of fibrous membrane was occupied by thick elastic fibers. A medial articular capsule, namely the ligamenta flava, contained numerous thick elastic fibers in both early and late-stage fetuses. The distributional differences in nerve fibers between early and late-stage fetuses were determined by immunostaining, using antibodies raised against protein gene product 9.5 (PGP 9.5; ubiquitin carboxyl-terminal hydrolase). Innervation by PGP 9.5 immunoreactive fibers was limited to the areas of the articular capsules near the blood vessels, which may indicate their functional relation with blood flow. No PGP 9.5 immunoreactive fibers were found in the ligamenta flava of the late-stage fetus. Innervation might be directly involved in the development of the intervertebral articular capsules in normal human fetuses.

We assessed biochemical endpoints indicative of acute toxicity in neonatal rat primary astrocyte cultures exposed to acrylamide. Metallothionein (MT), glutamine synthetase (GS), glutamate/aspartate transporter (GLAST), and taurine transporter (tau-T) mRNA expression levels as well as cell volume were determined in astrocytes acutely treated with 0.1 and 1.0 mM acrylamide. Statistically significant changes in acrylamide treated astrocytes were noted for GS (0.1 mM) and GLAST (1.0 mM) mRNA expression levels. All other measurements were insignificant in comparison with controls, suggesting that astrocytic function is minimally compromised even at exceedingly high levels of acute acrylamide exposure.
Delineating the mechanisms of survival pathways that exist in neurons will provide important insight into how neurons utilize intracellular proteins as neuroprotectants against the causes of acute neurodegeneration. We have employed cultured rat cerebellar granule cells as a model for determining the mechanisms of these intraneuronal survival pathways. Glutamate has long been known to kill neurons by an N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA) receptor-mediated mechanism. Paradoxically, subtoxic concentrations of NMDA protect neurons against glutamate-mediated excitotoxicity. Because NMDA protects neurons in physiologic concentrations of glucose and oxygen, we refer to this phenomenon as physiologic preconditioning. One of the major mechanisms of NMDA neuroprotection involves the activation of NMDA receptors leading to the rapid release of brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF). BDNF then binds to and activates its cognate receptor, receptor tyrosine kinase B (TrkB). The efficient utilization of these two receptors confers remarkable resistance against millimolar concentrations of glutamate that kill more than eighty percent of the neurons in the absence of preconditioning the neurons with a subtoxic concentration of NMDA. Exactly how the neurons mediate neuroprotection by activation of both receptors is just beginning to be understood. Both NMDA and TrkB receptors activate nuclear factor kappaB (NF-kappaB), a transcription factor known to be involved in protecting neurons against many different kinds of toxic insults. By converging on survival transcription factors, such as NF-kappaB, NMDA and TrkB receptors protect neurons. Thus, crosstalk between these very different receptors provides a rapid means of neuronal communication to upregulate survival proteins through release and transcriptional activation of messenger RNA.
The role of antibodies to specific neuronal and muscle ion channels in the etiology of neuromuscular transmission disorders is now well accepted. In addition, maternal antibodies can cross the placenta and cause neonatal disease or even alter the development of the infant, raising the possibility that some neurodevelopmental conditions could be caused by maternal antibodies. Voltage-gated ion channels are expressed in the brain as well as at the neuromuscular junction, and in recent years it has become clear that antibodies to some central nervous system (CNS) channels can be associated with CNS disease. This review highlights features of these conditions, preliminary investigations into neurodevelopmental disorders, and areas for further study.
Using (11)C-raclopride positron emission tomography after methamphetamine challenge, we have evaluated regional brain changes in synaptic dopamine (DA) levels in six volunteers and six advanced Parkinson's disease (PD) patients. The pharmacological challenge induced significant release of endogenous DA in putamen not only in the normal subjects, as reflected by a 25.2% reduction in (11)C-raclopride binding potential as compared with placebo, but also in the PD patients (6.8%). In individual PD patients, we found a correlation between putamen DA release and DA storage, as measured by (18)F-dopa uptake. Localization of significant changes in (11)C-raclopride binding after methamphetamine at a voxel level with statistical parametric mapping identified striatal and prefrontal DA release in both cohorts. Statistical comparisons between normal subjects and PD confirmed significantly reduced DA release in striatal areas in PD, but normal levels of prefrontal DA release. In conclusion, significant endogenous DA release can still be induced by pharmacological challenges in the putamen of advanced PD patients, and this release correlates with residual DA storage capacity. Our data also show that the capacity to release normal DA levels in prefrontal areas after a pharmacological challenge is preserved in severe stages of the disease.
Multipotential human central nervous system progenitor cells, isolated from human fetal brain tissue by selective growth conditions, were cultured as undifferentiated, attached cell layers. Selective differentiation yielded highly purified populations of neurons or astrocytes. This report describes the novel use of this cell culture model to study cell type-specific recognition of a human neurotropic virus, JC virus. Infection by either JC virions or a plasmid encoding the JC genome demonstrated susceptibility in astrocytes and, to a lesser degree, progenitor cells, whereas neurons remained nonpermissive. JC virus susceptibility correlated with significantly higher expression of the NFI-X transcription factor in astrocytes than in neurons. Furthermore, transfection of an NFI-X expression vector into progenitor-derived neuronal cells before infection resulted in viral protein production. These results indicate that susceptibility to JC virus infection occurs at the molecular level and also suggest that differential recognition of the viral promoter sequences can predict lineage pathways of multipotential progenitor cells in the human central nervous system.
Glutamate excitotoxicity is implicated in the progressive loss of oligodendrocytes in multiple sclerosis, but how glutamate metabolism is dysregulated in the disease remains unclear. Because there is microglia activation in all stages of multiple sclerosis, we determined whether a microglia product, interleukin-1beta, could provide the mechanism for glutamate excitotoxicity. We found that whereas interleukin-1beta did not kill oligodendrocytes in pure culture, it produced apoptosis of oligodendrocytes in coculture with astrocytes and microglia. This requirement for a mixed glia environment suggests that interleukin-1beta impairs the well-described glutamate-buffering capacity of astrocytes. In support, antagonists at AMPA/kainate glutamate receptors, NBQX and CNQX, blocked the interleukin-1beta toxicity to oligodendrocytes. Another microglia/macrophage cytokine, tumor necrosis factor-alpha, also evoked apoptosis of oligodendrocytes in a mixed glia environment in an NBQX-blockable manner. These results provide a mechanistic link between the persistent and insidious microglia activation that is evident in all stages of multiple sclerosis, with the recent appreciation that glutamate excitotoxicity leads to the destruction of oligodendrocytes in the disease.





beta-Amyloid (A beta) peptide has been shown to induce neuronal apoptosis; however, the mechanisms underlying A beta-induced neuronal cell death remain to be fully elucidated. The stress-activated protein kinase, c-Jun N-terminal kinase (JNK), is activated in response to cellular stress and has been identified as a proximal mediator of cell death. In the present study, expression of active JNK was increased in the nucleus and cytoplasm of A beta-treated cells. Evaluation of the nature of the JNK isoforms activated by A beta revealed a transient increase in JNK1 activity that reached its peak at 1 h and a later activation (at 24 h) of JNK2. The tumour suppressor protein, p53, is a substrate for JNK and can serve as a signalling molecule in apoptosis. In cultured cortical neurons, we found that A beta increased p53 protein expression and phosphorylation of p53 at Ser(15). Thus it appears that A beta increases p53 expression via phosphorylation-mediated stabilization of the protein. Given the lack of availability of a JNK inhibitor that can distinguish between JNK1- and JNK2-mediated effects, we employed antisense technology to deplete cells of JNK1 or JNK2 selectively. Using this strategy, the respective roles of JNK1 and JNK2 on the A beta-mediated activation of the apoptotic cascade (i.e. p53 stabilization, caspase 3 activation and DNA fragmentation) were examined. The results obtained demonstrate a role for JNK1 in the A beta-induced stabilization of p53, activation of caspase 3 and DNA fragmentation. In contrast, depletion of JNK2 had no effect on the proclivity of A beta to activate capase 3 or induce DNA fragmentation. These results demonstrate a significant role for JNK1 in A beta-mediated induction of the apoptotic cascade in cultured cortical neurons.
Our study was a replication and extension with methodological improvements to a previous study on effects of the electromagnetic field (EMF) emitted by a 902 MHz mobile phone on human cognitive functioning. Improvements on the previous study included multicentre testing and a double blind design. A total of 64 subjects (32 men and 32 women) in two independent laboratories performed a battery of 9 cognitive tasks twice: while the EMF was on and while it was off. Reaction times (RTs) and accuracy were recorded. The order of exposure and tasks was counterbalanced across subjects and gender. There were no statistically significant differences in performance between genders or laboratories. Although the RTs and the accuracy of answers were very similar to those of our previous study, our previous results were not replicated. We concluded that EMF had no effect on RTs or on the accuracy of the subjects' answers. Further, our results indicate that our EMF had no immediate effect on human cognitive functioning or that such effects are so small that they are observed on behavior only occasionally.
Active shock avoidance was used to explore the impact of behavioural stimulation on the neurochemistry of the suprachiasmatic nucleus. We have found previously that the expression of muscarinic acetylcholine receptors in the suprachiasmatic nucleus of young rats was significantly enhanced 24 hours after fear conditioning. Here, we investigated whether this observation is age-dependent. We used 26 month-old Wistar rats with a deteriorated circadian system, and compared them with young rats (4 months of age) with an intact circadian system. Vasopressin, representing a major output system of the suprachiasmatic nucleus, was studied in addition to muscarinic receptors. Young rats showed a significant increase in immunostaining for muscarinic acetylcholine receptors 24 h after training, corroborating earlier observations. Aged rats did not show such an increase. In contrast, aged rats did show an increase in vasopressin immunoreactivity 24 h after fear conditioning, both at the level of content and cell number, while young rats did not reveal a significant rise. Thus, it seems that these two neurochemical systems in the suprachiasmatic nucleus are regulated independently. The results further demonstrate that the circadian pacemaker is influenced by fear conditioning in an age-dependent manner.
The molecular clockwork in mammals involves various clock genes with specific temporal expression patterns. Synchronization of the master circadian clock located in the suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN) is accomplished mainly via daily resetting of the phase of the clock by light stimuli. Phase shifting responses to light are correlated with induction of Per1, Per2 and Dec1 expression and a possible reduction of Cry2 expression within SCN cells. The timing of peripheral oscillators is controlled by the SCN when food is available ad libitum. Time of feeding, as modulated by temporal restricted feeding, is a potent 'Zeitgeber' (synchronizer) for peripheral oscillators with only weak synchronizing influence on the SCN clockwork. When restricted feeding is coupled with caloric restriction, however, timing of clock gene expression is altered within the SCN, indicating that the SCN function is sensitive to metabolic cues. The components of the circadian timing system can be differentially synchronized according to distinct, sometimes conflicting, temporal (time of light exposure and feeding) and homeostatic (metabolic) cues.
We studied the dynamics of precise spike synchronization and rate modulation in a population of neurons recorded in monkey motor cortex during performance of a delayed multidirectional pointing task and determined their relation to behavior. We showed that at the population level neurons coherently synchronized their activity at various moments during the trial in relation to relevant task events. The comparison of the time course of the modulation of synchronous activity with that of the firing rate of the same neurons revealed a considerable difference. Indeed, when synchronous activity was highest, at the end of the preparatory period, firing rate was low, and, conversely, when the firing rate was highest, at movement onset, synchronous activity was almost absent. There was a clear tendency for synchrony to precede firing rate, suggesting that the coherent activation of cell assemblies may trigger the increase in firing rate in large groups of neurons, although it appeared that there was no simple parallel shifting in time of these two activity measures. Interestingly, there was a systematic relationship between the amount of significant synchronous activity within the population of neurons and movement direction at the end of the preparatory period. Furthermore, about 400 ms later, at movement onset, the mean firing rate of the same population was also significantly tuned to movement direction, having roughly the same preferred direction as synchronous activity. Finally, reaction time measurements revealed a directional preference of the monkey with, once again, the same preferred direction as synchronous activity and firing rate. These results lead us to speculate that synchronous activity and firing rate are cooperative neuronal processes and that the directional matching of our three measures--firing rate, synchronicity, and reaction times--might be an effect of behaviorally induced network cooperativity acquired during learning.
In the acute aftermath of exposure to extreme stress, nearly all trauma survivors experience one or more transient symptoms of stress. In the short run, these symptoms may serve an adaptive role and generally remit; in some cases, however, acute stress-related symptoms do not diminish and instead evolve into posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD). At present it is not clear when and with whom to intervene. On one hand, it is possible that some responses, such as early intrusive memories, effectively recruit support from others and facilitate the psychological processing of trauma; on the other hand, failing to intervene clinically with a recently traumatized individual may permit the subsequent development of PTSD. In this review, we focus on potential pharmacologic interventions aimed at treating early symptoms of extreme arousal or dissociation with the hope of possibly preventing PTSD. To date there is almost no empirical data on effective pharmacologic interventions in the immediate aftermath of extreme psychological trauma. As a result, much of what is discussed in this review is speculative in nature
Interest in developmental and psychobiological aspects of trauma has grown with recent research in adults with mood and anxiety disorders reporting histories of trauma during childhood. Studies conducted directly in children and adolescents could add much to ongoing research in this area. This review summarizes data in three areas of developmental science that might inform future studies. First, the review briefly summarizes current data on clinical aspects of trauma in juveniles, focusing on associations with psychopathology and moderators of outcome. Second, the review summarizes data from the basic sciences delineating experiential and developmental changes in brain systems involved in threat perception and response. This review incorporates knowledge gained from research examining the effects of rearing manipulations on regulation of the stress response in rodents and primates. Third, the review summarizes data from cognitive neuroscience studies among both adults and children, again focusing on studies examining aspects of the threat response. This summary includes a review from studies in patients with posttraumatic stress disorder.
We determined the gating and permeation properties of single L-type Ca(2+) channels, using hair cells and varying concentrations (5-70 mM) of the charge carriers Ba(2+) and Ca(2+). The channels showed distinct gating modes with high- and low-open probability. The half-activation voltage (V(1/2)) shifted in the hyperpolarizing direction from high to low permeant ion concentrations consistent with charge screening effects. However, the differences in the slope of the voltage shifts (in VM(-1)) between Ca(2+) (0.23) and Ba(2+) (0.13), suggest that channel-ion interaction may also contribute to the gating of the channel. We examined the effect of mixtures of Ba(2+) and Ca(2+) on the activation curve. In 5 mM Ca(2+), the V(1/2) was, -26.4 +/- 2.0 mV compared to Ba(2+), -34.7 +/- 2.9 mV, as the charge carrier. However, addition of 1 mM Ba(2+) in 4 mM Ca(2+), a molar ratio, which yielded an anomalous-mole fraction effect, was sufficient to shift the V(1/2) to -34.7 +/- 1.5 mV. Although Ca(2+)-dependent inactivation of the L-type channels in hair cells can yield the present findings, we provide evidence that the anomalous gating of the channel may stem from the closed interaction between ion permeation and gating.
Tropomyosin binds end to end along the actin filament. Tropomyosin ends, and the complex they form, are required for actin binding, cooperative regulation of actin filaments by myosin, and binding to the regulatory protein, troponin T. The aim of the work was to understand the isoform and structural specificity of the end-to-end association of tropomyosin. The ability of N-terminal and C-terminal model peptides with sequences of alternate alpha-tropomyosin isoforms, and a troponin T fragment that binds to the tropomyosin overlap, to form complexes was analyzed using circular dichroism spectroscopy. Analysis of N-terminal extensions (N-acetylation, Gly, AlaSer) showed that to form an overlap complex between the N-terminus and the C-terminus requires that the N-terminus be able to form a coiled coil. Formation of a ternary complex with the troponin T fragment, however, effectively takes place only when the overlap complex sequences are those found in striated muscle tropomyosins. Striated muscle tropomyosins with N-terminal modifications formed ternary complexes with troponin T that varied in affinity in the order: N-acetylated &gt; Gly &gt; AlaSer &gt; unacetylated. The circular dichroism results were corroborated by native gel electrophoresis, and the ability of the troponin T fragment to promote binding of full-length tropomyosins to filamentous actin.
In this paper we introduce and apply the concept of local evolvability to investigate the behaviour of populations during evolutionary search. We focus on the evolution of GasNet neural network controllers for a robotic visual discrimination problem, showing that the evolutionary process undergoes long neutral fitness epochs. We show that the local evolvability properties of the search space surrounding a group of statistically neutral solutions do vary across the course of an evolutionary run, especially during periods of population takeover. However, once takeover is complete there is no evidence for further increase in local evolvability across fitness epochs. We also see no evidence for the neutral evolution of increased solution robustness, but show that this may be due to the ability of evolutionary algorithms to focus search on volumes of the fitness landscape with above average robustness.
We developed a method to generate dendritic cells (DCs) from mouse embryonic stem (ES) cells. We cultured ES cells for 10 days on feeder cell layers of OP9, in the presence of granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor in the latter 5 days. The resultant ES cell-derived cells were transferred to bacteriologic Petri dishes without feeder cells and further cultured. In about 7 days, irregularly shaped floating cells with protrusions appeared and these expressed major histocompatibility complex class II, CD11c, CD80, and CD86, with the capacity to stimulate primary mixed lymphocyte reaction (MLR) and to process and present protein antigen to T cells. We designated them ES-DCs (ES cell-derived dendritic cells), and the functions of ES-DCs were comparable with those of DCs generated from bone marrow cells. Upon transfer to new dishes and stimulation with interleukin-4 plus tumor necrosis factor alpha, combined with anti-CD40 monoclonal antibody or lipopolysaccharide, ES-DCs completely became mature DCs, characterized by a typical morphology and higher capacity to stimulate MLR. Using an expression vector containing the internal ribosomal entry site-puromycin N-acetyltransferase gene or a Cre-lox-mediated exchangeable gene-trap system, we could efficiently generate ES cell transfectants expressing the products of introduced genes after their differentiation to DCs. ES-DCs expressing invariant chain fused to a pigeon cytochrome C epitope presented the epitope efficiently in the context of E(k). We primed ovalbumin (OVA)-specific cytotoxic T lymphocytes in vivo by injecting mice with ES-DCs expressing OVA, thus demonstrating immunization with ES-DCs genetically engineered to express antigenic protein. The methods may be applicable to immunomodulation therapy and gene-trap investigations of DCs.

In the past several years, a great deal has been learnt about the molecular basis through which specific neural pathways in the visual system are established during embryonic development. This review provides a framework for understanding the principles of retinal ganglion cell axon guidance, and introduces some of the families of axon guidance molecules involved. In addition, the potential relevance of retinal axon guidance to human visual developmental disorders, and to retinal axon regeneration, is discussed.
Expert opinion remains divided on the issue of whether the hippocampal system functions exclusively in spatial information processing, e.g. in navigation or in understanding spatial relations, or whether it plays a more general role in higher brain function. Previous work on monkeys and rats has tended to support the former view, whereas observations in the clinic point to the latter, including functions as diverse as declarative knowledge, episodic memory, word learning, and understanding relations among objects. One influential theory posits a general role for the hippocampal system in associative learning, with emphasis on associations learned rapidly and recently. The results presented here are consistent with this theory, along with previous clinical and theoretical studies indicating that the hippocampal system is necessary for associative learning even if no component of the association relies on spatial information. In the study reported here, rhesus monkeys learned a series of conditional stimulus-response associations involving complex visual stimuli presented on a video monitor. Each stimulus instructed one of three responses: tapping the stimulus with the hand, steady hand contact with the stimulus for a brief period of time, or steady contact for a longer time. Fornix transection impaired the learning of these associations, even though both the stimuli and the responses were nonspatially differentiated, and this deficit persisted for at least 2 years. This finding indicates that the hippocampal system plays an important role in associative learning regardless of the relevance of spatial information to any aspect of the association. Fornix-transected monkeys were impaired in learning new stimulus-response associations even when the stimuli were highly familiar. Thus, the deficit was one of associating each stimulus with a response, as opposed to problems in distinguishing the stimuli from each other. In contrast to these effects, fornix transection did not impair performance when familiar stimuli instructed a response according to an already-learned association, which shows that the deficit was one of learning new associations rather than one of retention or retrieval of previously learned ones. Taken together, these results show that fornix transection causes a long-lasting impairment in associative learning outside of the spatial domain, in a manner consistent with theories of hippocampal-system function that stress a general role in the rapid acquisition of associative knowledge.
Hyperactivity in the subthalamic nucleus (STN) is seen in animal models of Parkinson's disease, and lesioning of the STN dramatically relieves the animal's parkinsonism. Deep brain stimulation (DBS) of the STN is an effective treatment for patients with advanced Parkinson's disease. We have studied the effects of a unilateral lesion placed in the STN in predominantly hemi-parkinsonian patients. Twenty-one patients with advanced idiopathic Parkinson's disease were studied. Seventeen had asymmetrical tremor-dominant Parkinson's disease and four had bilateral disease. All patients underwent radiofrequency lesioning of the dorsolateral part of the STN under stereotactic guidance. The four patients with bilateral disease had, in addition, an electrode implanted contralaterally in the STN. Twenty-one patients have been followed for a minimum of 12 months. Clinical evaluation included the use of the Unified Parkinson's Disease Rating Scale (UPDRS) before and after surgery. Post-operative high-resolution MRI was performed in each patient to confirm lesion location, and this was correlated with clinical outcome. There was improvement in contralateral tremor, rigidity and bradykinesia in all patients followed for 6, 12 and 24 months, with the effect on tremor being greatest. L-dopa equivalent daily intake was approximately halved, and this resulted in a significant reduction in dyskinesia. Psychometric test scores were mostly unchanged or improved. All lesions were successfully located in the dorsolateral STN. Nineteen of the 21 lesions extended beyond the STN to involve pallidofugal fibres (H2 field of Forel) and the zona incerta (ZI). Lesion-induced dyskinesias were not a management problem except in one patient, whose lesion was confined to the STN. This patient was successfully treated with deep brain stimulator placement in the region of H2/ZI. Unilateral STN lesions can be made safely and are an effective alternative to thalamotomy, pallidotomy and unilateral STN DBS for the treatment of asymmetrical tremor-dominant advanced Parkinson's disease. Com bined lesioning of the dorsolateral STN and H2/ZI is particularly effective.
We have studied the progression of striatal and extrastriatal post-synaptic dopaminergic changes in a group of 12 patients with Huntington's disease using serial (11)C-raclopride PET, a specific marker of D2 dopamine receptor binding. All patients had two (11)C-raclopride PET scans 29.2 +/- 12.8 months apart, and six of them had a third scan 13.2 +/- 3.9 months later. We found a mean annual 4.8% loss of striatal (11)C-raclopride binding potential (BP) between the first and second scans, and a 5.2% loss between the second and third scans. Statistical Parametric Mapping (SPM) localized significant baseline reductions in (11)C-raclopride BP in both striatal and extrastriatal areas, including amygdala, temporal and frontal cortex in Huntington's disease compared with normal subjects matched for age and sex. When the (11)C-raclopride scans performed 29 months after the baseline scans were considered, SPM revealed further significant striatal, frontal and temporal reductions in (11)C-raclopride BP in Huntington's disease. Cross-sectional Unified Huntington's Disease Rating Scale (UHDRS) scores correlated with (11)C-raclopride binding, but there was no correlation between individual changes in UHDRS motor scores and changes in striatal binding. Performance on all neuropsychological measures deteriorated with time but only the accuracy score of the one-touch Tower of London test correlated significantly with striatal and putamen D2 binding. In summary, serial (11)C-raclopride PET demonstrates a linear progression of striatal loss of D2 receptors in early clinically affected Huntington's disease patients over 3 years. SPM also revealed a progressive loss of temporal and frontal D2 binding. Changes over time in clinical scores and in neuropsychological assessments, except for measures of planning, did not correlate with striatal D2 binding. This probably reflects both contributions from other affected brain structures and high variance in these measures.
The discovery of the genetic basis of hereditary lower motor neuron disease (LMND) and the recognition of multifocal motor neuropathy as a distinct clinical entity necessitate a new classification of LMND. To this end, we studied the clinical and electrophysiological features of 49 patients with sporadic adult-onset LMND in a cross-sectional study. Disease duration was more than 4 years to exclude the majority of patients with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. Based on the pattern of weakness, we identified three groups: 13 patients with generalized weakness (group 1); eight patients with symmetrical, distal muscle weakness (group 2); and 28 patients with non-generalized asymmetrical weakness of the arms in most patients (group 3). Group 3 could be subdivided into patients with weakness in predominantly the distal (group 3a) or the proximal (group 3b) muscle groups, both with disease progression to adjacent spinal cord segments. Distinctive features of group 1 were an older age at onset, more severe weakness and muscle atrophy, lower reflexes, greater functional impairment, more widespread abnormalities on concentric needle EMG, respiratory insufficiency and serum M-protein. In groups 2 and 3, concentric needle EMG findings also suggested a more widespread disease process. Retrospectively, the prognosis of sporadic adult-onset LMND appears to be favourable, because clinical abnormalities were still confined to one limb in most patients after a median disease duration of 12 years. We propose to classify the patients in the different subgroups as slowly progressive spinal muscular atrophy (group 1), distal spinal muscular atrophy (group 2), segmental distal spinal muscular atrophy (group 3a) and segmental proximal spinal muscular atrophy (group 3b). The described clinical phenotypes may help to distinguish between different LMND forms.
The contribution of EEG coherence analysis to the investigation of cognition and, in particular, language processing is demonstrated with examples of recent EEG studies. The concept of EEG coherence analysis is explained, and its importance emphasized in the light of recent neurobiological findings on frequency-dependent synchrony as a code of information processing between nerve cell assemblies. Furthermore, EEG coherence studies on naturally spoken and written word and sentence processing are reviewed and experimental results are presented giving new insights into the occurrence of &quot;transient functional language centers&quot; within the brain.
Double labeling is used for localizing two antigens simultaneously in the same tissue. We have used two approaches to post-embedding immunogold labeling to investigate whether nerve terminals in the guinea-pig anteroventral cochlear nucleus (AVCN) that contain gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) or glycine are capable of retrieving the other amino acid as part of an investigation of colocalization of these putative neurotransmitters. For this, vibroslices of perfusion-fixed brain stem were freeze-substituted and embedded in the low temperature resin, Lowicryl HM20. Simultaneous labeling of ultrathin sections was then performed with a mixture of a rabbit primary antibody to GABA and a guinea-pig primary antibody to the glycine transporter, GLYT2, followed by labeling with a mixture of secondary antibodies (goat anti-rabbit IgG-30 nm gold, goat anti-guinea pig IgG-15 nm gold). This approach indicated that GLYT2 occurs in the plasma membrane of some terminals that contain GABA. The other approach involved sequential labeling of ultrathin sections with a rabbit primary antibody to the GABA transporter, GAT1, followed by an anti-rabbit secondary antibody conjugated to 15-nm gold particles. Sections were then treated with paraformaldehyde vapor to denature any free anti-IgG binding sites on the first antibody, and labeled with a primary antibody to glycine also raised in rabbit followed by an anti-rabbit secondary antibody conjugated to 30-nm gold particles. This approach indicated that GAT1 occurs in the plasma membrane of some terminals that contain glycine. Thus, these techniques can be used to localize heat-labile multiple antigens in the same tissue.
Slow repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation (rTMS) is a method capable of transiently inhibiting cortical excitability and disrupting information processing in the visual system. This method can be used to topographically map the functional contribution of different cortical brain areas in visual processing. An early electrophysiological component, the CI is argued to reflect early visual processing. In addition, source-localization studies have provided evidence for the assumption that the striate cortex is the underlying neural generator of CI. In the present placebo-controlled, crossover study, slow rTMS was applied in order to further investigate the relationship between the striate cortex and the CI component. Based on the inhibitory effects of slow rTMS, a reduction in CI amplitude and an increase in latency were expected. Compared to placebo stimulation, slow rTMS over the striate cortex resulted in significant decreases of the CI amplitude, but did not affect latency. The present study provides causal evidence for the involvement of the striate cortex in generating the CI component.
Information about the form and the spatial location of objects is seamlessly integrated during visual perception. We used event-related potentials (ERPs) to explore neural activity related to processing form, location or the combination of both kinds of features. Healthy subjects performed three versions of a 'match-to-sample' task: a two-object task, a two-location task and an integrated object-location task. Responses were quickest and most accurate during the integrated task, slower and less accurate in the two-location task and slowest and least accurate in the two-object task. ERPs locked to the 'sample' stimulus at encoding, and to the 'target' stimulus during feature comparison differentiated between tasks. 'Sample' stimulus ERPs exhibited task-specific posterior cortical involvement in processing distinct visual features. 'Target' stimulus ERPs revealed task-related differences in features associated with frontal lobe mediated attentional processes: an early latency P300 showed increased amplitude during the integrated task. Results from this experiment support the view that distinct neural circuits mediate form vs. location processing and that form-location integration engages both pathways and upregulates frontal-parietal association networks.
Event-related potential (ERP) studies have highlighted an occipito-temporal potential, the N170, which is larger for faces than for other categories and delayed by stimulus inversion of faces, but not of other objects. We examined how high-pass and low-pass filtering modulate such early differences between the processing of faces and objects. Sixteen grey-scale pictures of faces and cars were filtered to preserve only relatively low (LSF) or high (HSF) spatial frequencies and were presented upright or upside-down. Subjects reported the orientation of the faces and cars in broad-pass and filtered conditions. In the broad-pass condition, we replicated typical N170 face-specific effects of amplitude and delay with inversion. These effects were also present in the LSF condition. However, a completely different pattern was revealed by the HSF condition: (1). a similar N170 amplitude for cars as compared to faces and (2). an absence of N170 latency delay with face inversion. These results show that the source of early processing differences between faces and objects is related to the extraction of information contained mostly in the LSF, which conveys coarse configuration cues particularly salient for face processing.
In clinical studies, many researchers have reported that drawing can be disturbed by left or right unilateral parietal lobe damage (constructional apraxia). There seem to be two possible predictions about the cerebral laterality for drawing. The first is that drawing requires both parietal lobes, therefore, a lesion to either side can disrupt drawing. The second is that individuals can differ in laterality: some have only right or left activations, and some have bilateral. To test these predictions, we investigated with functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) the cerebral activation whilst 17 right-handed healthy subjects performed a drawing task. The experiment consisted of two conditions: (1). naming an object in a presented picture and drawing it by using right index finger (DRAWING &amp; NAMING); (2). naming an object in a presented picture (NAMING). We considered the brain regions that had greater activity in the DRAWING&amp;NAMING condition than in the NAMING condition were the neural substrates of drawing. Individual analysis revealed that all subjects showed parietal activation bilaterally. We interpret that the results support the first prediction that both parietal lobes are required for drawing. By calculating the laterality indices of the individual parietal activations, it was found that there were more left dominant subjects than right dominant subjects (left, 12; right, 5). The results are inconsistent with previous studies on the incidence of constructional apraxia. In addition, we found activation in regions that were not previously reported in the literature of constructional apraxia: they are the ventral premotor area and posterior part of inferior temporal sulcus.



Systemic sepsis commonly produces brain dysfunction, sepsis-associated encephalopathy, which can vary from a transient, reversible encephalopathy to irreversible brain damage. The encephalopathy in the acute phase clinically resembles many metabolic encephalopathies: a diffuse disturbance in cerebral function with sparing of the brain stem. The severity of the encephalopathy, as reflected in progressive EEG abnormalities, often precedes then parallels dysfunction in other organs. Recent research has revealed a number of potentially important, non-mutually exclusive, mechanisms that have therapeutic implications.
The future will see increased medicalization of psychiatry and will demand changes in training that better prepare residents for the realities of practice in a sustained period of physician shortage. Residency programs will need to move from the current apprenticeship model of training to competency-based programs built on the CanMEDS 2000 articulation of physician roles. Training will need to focus on evidence-based treatments, more efficient models of health care delivery, more attentive tracking of resident clinical work, and more reliable and standardized methods of evaluating resident competencies.

Unlike most patients with glioblastoma multiforme who survive less than a year, approximately 2% have an unusually long survival after diagnosis and contemporary treatment (&gt; or = 3 or more years); rarely, the disease appears to be &quot;cured.&quot; Understanding these rare patients may tell us something important about the biology of glioblastoma multiforme. Patients who are young, have good performance status, and receive multimodalitytherapy (i.e., surgical resection, radiotherapy, and adjuvant chemotherapy) are more likely to have a long survival than older patients with poor performance status who are treated identically. However, the aforementioned clinical characteristics of long-term survivors do not explain why most patients with glioblastoma multiforme who have this same constellation of favorable features succumb to the disease relatively quickly. &quot;Glioblastoma multiforme&quot; is a group of diseases, one subtype of which behaves in a more indolent fashion, or responds well to current therapies, or both. In this review, we summarize the molecular characteristics of glioblastoma multiforme and pay special attention to molecular predictors of survival outcome, an area of research that is still in its infancy. We conclude by suggesting a translational research strategy that is aimed at uncovering the molecular signatures of long survivorship.
Our senses of touch, hearing, and balance are mediated by mechanosensitive ion channels. In vertebrates, little is known about the molecular composition of these mechanoreceptors, an example of which is the transduction channel of the inner ear's receptor cells, hair cells. Members of the TRP family of ion channels are considered candidates for the vertebrate hair cell's mechanosensitive transduction channel and here we review the evidence for this candidacy. We start by examining the results of genetic screens in invertebrates that identified members of the TRP gene family as core components of mechanoreceptors. In particular, we discuss the Caenorhabditis elegans OSM-9 channel, an invertebrate TRPV channel, and the Drosophila melanogaster TRP channel NOMPC. We then evaluate basic features of TRPV4, a vertebrate member of the TRPV subfamily, which is gated by a variety of physical and chemical stimuli including temperature, osmotic pressure, and ligands. Finally, we compare the characteristics of all discussed mechanoreceptive TRP channels with the biophysical characteristics of hair cell mechanotransduction, speculating about the possible make-up of the elusive inner ear mechanoreceptor.
The fates of Rat1a cells expressing FosB and DeltaFosB as fusion proteins (ER-FosB, ER-DeltaFosB) with the ligand binding domain of human estrogen receptor were examined. The binding of estrogen to the fusion proteins resulted in their nuclear translocation and triggered cell proliferation, and thereafter delayed cell death was observed only in cells expressing ER-DeltaFosB. The proliferation of Rat1a cells, but not cell death triggered by ER-DeltaFosB, was completely abolished by butyrolactone I, an inhibitor of cycline-dependent kinases, and was partly suppressed by antisense oligonucleotides against galectin-1, whose expression is induced after estrogen administration. The cell death was accompanied by the activation of caspase-3 and -9, the fragmentation of the nuclear genome and cytochrome c release from the mitochondria, and was suppressed by zDEVD-fmk and zLEHD-fmk but not zIETD-fmk. The cell death was not suppressed by exogenous His-PTD-Bcl-x(L) at all, suggesting involvement of a Bcl-x(L)-resistant pathway for cytochrome c release.
Shape and motion are complementary visual features and each appears to be processed in unique cortical areas. However, object motion is a powerful cue for the perception of three-dimensional (3-D) shape, implying that the two types of information--motion and form--are well integrated. We conducted a series of fMRI experiments aimed at identifying the brain regions involved in inferring 3-D shape from motion cues. For each subject, we identified regions in occipital-temporal cortex that were activated when perceiving: (i) motion in unstructured random-dot patterns, (ii) 2-D and 3-D line drawing shapes, and (iii) 3-D shapes defined by motion cues (shape-from-motion, SFM). We found closely adjacent areas in the lateral occipital region activated by random motion and line-drawing shapes. In addition, we found that the SFM stimuli produced a greater MRI signal in only one of the areas identified with the random motion and line-drawing stimuli: the superior lateral occipital (SLO) region. High-resolution analysis showed that SFM objects and line drawings were processed in separate but adjacent sub-regions in SLO, suggesting that SLO codes object shape but retains topographic segregation based on shape cues. Expanding the analysis to the entire cortex identified a parietal area that had overlapping activation for both SFM and line drawings and increased MRI signal for 3-D versus 2-D shapes, suggesting this area is important for processing shape information.
Recordings of event-related potentials (ERPs) were combined with structural and functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) to study the spatio-temporal patterns of cortical activity that underlie visual-spatial attention. Small checkerboard stimuli were flashed in random order to the four quadrants of the visual field at a rapid rate while subjects attended to stimuli in one quadrant at a time. Attended stimuli elicited enhanced ERP components in the latency range 80-200 ms that were co-localized with fMRI activations in multiple extrastriate cortical regions. The earliest ERP component (C1 at 50-90 ms) was unaffected by attention and was localized by dipole modeling to calcarine cortex. A longer latency deflection in the 150-225 ms range that was accounted for by this same calcarine source, however, did show consistent modulation with attention. This late attention effect, like the C1, inverted in polarity for upper versus lower field stimuli, consistent with a neural generator in primary visual cortex (area V1). These results provide support to current hypotheses that spatial attention in humans is associated with delayed feedback to area V1 from higher extrastriate areas that may have the function of improving the salience of stimuli at attended locations.
It has previously been proposed that the prefrontal cortex has a role in 'executive processes' and memory function. These activities presumably require modulation of activity in posterior cortex. On the basis of this hypothesis, it was proposed that prefrontal cortex lesions might alter neural activity in the hippocampus, a region implicated in memory processing. A major feature of hippocampal activity is place-related firing. Single unit recordings of CA1 complex spike cells ('place cells'; n = 64) were made as rats with prefrontal lesions (n = 6) or sham surgeries (n = 7) foraged freely. The spatial information content provided by spikes in cells of lesion animals was significantly greater than in sham-group animals, although the size of their place fields was not affected. The location of the firing fields of lesion-group rats were less stable across time when either 5 h or 3 min intervals were inserted between successive recordings of the same cell. It was hypothesized that animals with prefrontal lesions may be overly influenced by local, less stable environmental cues than sham rats. This may explain both the spatial information content and stability findings. These findings indicate that prefrontal cortex normally modulates spatial responses in the hippocampus.
1. Morphine and opiate narcotics are potent analgesics that have a high propensity to induce tolerance and physical dependence following their repeated administration. 2. The molecular basis of opiate dependence has not been completely elucidated, although the participation of opioid receptors is a prerequisite. Cellular dependence on opioids is believed to result from the chronic stimulation of opioid-regulated signalling networks. 3. As G-protein-coupled receptors, the opioid receptors must rely on heterotrimeric G-proteins for signal transduction. Recent advances in our understanding of G-protein signalling have unveiled novel signalling molecules and mechanisms, some of which may be intricately involved in the manifestation of opiate dependence. 4. In the present review, we will attempt to trace chronic opioid signals along elaborate G-protein-regulated pathways.

Continuous duodenal infusion of carbidopa/levodopa has been shown to control motor fluctuations in advanced Parkinson's disease (PD). The authors compared the pharmacokinetics of levodopa and 3-O-methyldopa in patients with advanced PD after administration of an oral sustained-release levodopa preparation and after continuous intestinal levodopa infusion with a new formulation as a gel suspension. A randomized crossover trial was carried out in 12 patients. Carbidopa/levodopa was administered as an oral sustained-release tablet and by nasoduodenal continuous infusion for 3-week periods for each treatment. Plasma levodopa concentrations and motor performance were evaluated every 30 minutes during 3 test days of each treatment period. The average intraindividual coefficient of variation for the plasma levodopa concentrations after oral therapy was 34% and was significantly lower (14%, p &lt; 0.01) during continuous infusion. Hourly video evaluations showed a significant increase in ON time during infusion and a significant decrease in OFF time and dyskinesia. Continuous intraduodenal delivery of a new carbidopa/levodopa formulation offers a means for markedly improved control of motor fluctuations in late stages of PD.
Medication- or substance-induced headache is probably an underrecognized entity with numerous etiologies, including prescribed medication, over-the-counter medication, illicit drugs, anesthetic agents, foods, food additives, beverages, vitamins, inhaled substances, and substances used in diagnostic procedures. The author performs a systemic review of the literature to provide an exhaustive description of the relationship between medications and substances and headaches of various types, along with pathophysiologic mechanisms whenever possible. Suggestions for improved identification of this phenomenon and its avoidance are provided. More scientific evaluation of substances and their possible association with headache is required with almost all substances indicated herein.
Epileptic conditions are characterized by an altered balance between excitatory and inhibitory influences at the cortical level. Transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) provides a noninvasive evaluation of separate excitatory and inhibitory functions of the cerebral cortex. In addition, repetitive TMS (rTMS) can modulate the excitability of cortical networks. We review the different ways that TMS has been used to investigate pathophysiological mechanisms and effects of antiepileptic drugs in patients with epilepsy and epileptic myoclonus. The safety of different TMS techniques is discussed too. Finally, we discuss the therapeutic prospects of rTMS in this field.
Depression induced cognitive impairment, also referred to as the dementia syndrome of depression or pseudodementia, has been well characterized, yet the extent to which the more common mild depressive symptoms influence cognition has not been well studied. We sought to identify the influence of mild depressive symptoms on verbal fluency performance in a large sample of healthy community dwelling older adults. Letter and semantic fluency testing was conducted on 188 participants (ages 60-92 years) with no known history of neurologic or psychiatric disease. Depressive symptoms were assessed with the Geriatric Depression Scale (GDS). A total of 39 subjects obtained GDS scores consistent with mild depressive symptoms (GDS=10-19), and 149 subjects were identified as not depressed (GDS&lt;10). ANOVA indicated that subjects with mild depressive symptoms performed significantly worse than normal controls on letter fluency (p&lt;.05), but there was no significant difference between the groups on semantic fluency. Analysis of the nondepressed group stratified into young-old, middle-old, and oldest-old revealed a significant decline in semantic (p&lt;.001) but not letter fluency with age. The nondepressed young-old showed the expected advantage for word list generation to semantic as compared to letter categories, yet this pattern was reversed in the older age groups, where letter fluency scores exceeded semantic fluency scores. Our results suggest that the presence of even mild depressive symptoms may confound using letter versus category discrepancies in the differential diagnosis of dementia. Further, our findings suggest that the commonly used strategy of examining letter-semantic fluency discrepancies may not be relevant for individuals of advanced age. Age-stratified normative data for fluency testing in older adults is also provided.
The authors describe a patient with chronic sarcoid myopathy. Except for the presence of left posterior synechia, no other organ involvement was observed. Gallium-67 ((67)Ga) scintigraphy showed many intense nodular uptake areas in both the upper and lower extremities. Treatment with oral prednisolone 30 mg/day resulted in a marked improvement on (67)Ga scintigraphy. This case suggests that (67)Ga scintigraphy is useful for the differential diagnosis of systemic myopathies and also for monitoring the effect of glucocorticoid treatment.

A key issue in cognitive neuroscience concerns the neural representation of conceptual knowledge. Currently, debate focuses around the issue of whether there are neural regions specialised for the processing of specific semantic attributes or categories, or whether concepts are represented in an undifferentiated neural system. Neuropsychological studies of patients with selective semantic deficits and previous neuroimaging studies do not unequivocally support either account. We carried out a PET study to determine whether there is any regional specialisation for the processing of concepts from different semantic categories using picture stimuli and a semantic categorisation task. We found robust activation of a large semantic network extending from left inferior frontal cortex into the inferior temporal lobe and including occipital cortex and the fusiform gyrus. The only category effect that we found was additional activation for animals in the right occipital cortex, which we interpret as being due to the extra visual processing demands required in order to differentiate one animal from another. We also carried out analyses in specific cortical regions that have been claimed to be preferentially activated for various categories, but found no evidence of any differential activation as a function of category. We interpret these data within the framework of cognitive accounts in which conceptual knowledge is represented within a nondifferentiated distributed system.
Category-specific deficits and their relation to types of feature knowledge are addressed with respect to three semantic domains: artefacts, living things, and mass-kinds. The performance of a herpes encephalitic patient with a classic category-specific pattern of knowledge, MU, was compared to that of the other HSE patients and normal subjects. In a feature verification task involving over 4000 questions, MU showed a severe impairment with the mass-kind category, where his sensory features knowledge was at chance and much worse than his functional knowledge. In the feature production task, however, MU was grossly impaired with respect to sensory relative to functional features across all categories. Control experiments suggest that the deficits were of knowledge. Overall, these findings give some support to the sensory-functional theory, and are difficult to explain on the domain-specific knowledge theory. However, an account is still needed of the differences observed in MU's performance between the two paradigms.
Research from the west indicates that women living with a psychiatric disorder are particularly vulnerable to sexual coercion and abuse. However, there have been no published reports of sexual abuse among female psychiatric patients in India. This exploratory study sought (1) to determine the prevalence of sexual coercion in a representative sample of female psychiatric patients in India; (2) to identify clinical and sociodemographic correlates of sexual coercion; (3) to clarify the association between sexual coercion and human immunodeficiency virus (HIV)-related risk behavior; and (4) to determine whether self-report of sexual coercion from these patients was recorded in their medical charts. Consecutive female inpatient admissions (N = 146) to a large psychiatric hospital in southern India were assessed using a structured interview and standardized measures. During these structured clinical interviews, sexual coercion was reported by 30% of the 146 women. The most commonly reported experience was sexual intercourse involving threatened or actual physical force (reported by 14% of women), and the most commonly identified perpetrator was the woman's husband or intimate partner (15%), or a person in a position of authority in their community (10%). Women with a history of abuse were more likely to report HIV-related sexual behavior (P &lt;.001). In contrast to the 30% of women who reported sexual coercion during interviews, only 3.5% of the medical records contained this information. Thus, sexual coercion is a serious and prevalent concern among female Indian psychiatric patients, but is rarely reported in medical charts. Increased screening and reporting are indicated, as are sexual abuse prevention and treatment programs.
Six normal humans experienced yaw axis steps of velocity at 120 degrees /s in the dark. During the post-rotary period, subjects either had a null-task (do nothing); an ocular motor task (forced convergence: crossing the eyes); or a visual task (fixating a head-stationary target against a background of 10 degrees light/dark bars). Tasks started at 3 s post-rotation, and lasted either 2, 5, 10, or 15 s. Ocular motor and visual tasks were tested on different days. Five repetitions of each task duration were recorded for each subject. A mean VOR gain of 0.52 was observed, which did not vary with experimental conditions. Both convergence and fixation markedly suppressed nystagmus; in fact, the VORs obtained with the two different tasks are superficially similar in appearance. However, mean null-task time-constants were 9.4 s for convergence days, but 8.4 s for fixation days, and there was a small but significant reduction in overall null-task VOR amplitude on fixation days. Also, post-convergence slow-phase velocities were slightly enhanced, while post-fixation velocities were significantly reduced. The time-constant of velocity storage was found to be 10.1 s for convergence responses and 8.2 s for fixation responses. These differences can be understood in terms of modifications in central velocity storage during visual fixation which do not occur with convergence. The mean fixation data were analyzed in the context of a VOR model well-established for monkey data. With appropriate choice of parameters, this model accurately reproduces most features of the human data. An estimate for the human cupula time-constant of 3.3 s is obtained. Compared with the monkey, fixation suppression is greater and post-fixation velocity reduction less. Retinal slip alone accounts well for this; &quot;velocity dumping&quot; by an integrator shunt must be slight if present at all. The model correctly represents the post-fixation VOR for all durations of fixation.

Conditioned place preference is a behavioral model currently used to measure the rewarding properties induced by the administration of a drug. In this paradigm, the rewarding properties of a compound are associated with the particular characteristics of a given environment. Due to the recent availability of multiple lines of genetically modified mice, this unit includes procedures for testing place preference in both rats and mice.
There are now three models of neuropathic pain in the rat that are in widespread use: the chronic constriction injury, the partial sciatic ligation model, and the spinal nerve ligation model. The procedures to create these models and the behavioral assays used to quantify the resulting abnormal pain sensations are described in this unit.
Behavioral tasks must be evaluated in terms of the cognitive functions they require in order to be performed. All of the tasks described in this chapter can be used with each of four experimental manipulations: stimulation of a single brain region by drugs or small electrical current, impairment of normal function by production of a lesion or administration of appropriate pharmacological agents, recording of brain activity during the performance of a specific behavioral task, or behavioral phenotyping of transgenic and knockout mice for genes expressed in specific brain regions. This unit describes protocols for the radial arm maze task and the water maze task, both of which require intact spatial memory abilities.
Social recognition in mice is represented by a simple pattern of behavior that can be accurately and reliably quantified by trained observers. The paradigm presented in this unit takes advantage of an ethologically relevant phenomenon marked by a vigorous and species-typical sequence of investigatory behaviors that occurs when conspecifics meet. Recognition is noted by decreased investigation of a previously encountered animal.
Many diseases are influenced by multiple genetic and environmental factors. Identifying the genes contributing to the probability of developing such diseases poses an extraordinary challenge because each gene may have a small influence. Further, in the presence of other influential genes and environmental factors, the impact of a single gene may be amplified. Many approaches are being taken to address the challenge presented by complex trait genetics, and data are being amassed at an alarming rate. Access to these data is crucial for coordination of efforts and avoidance of unnecessary duplication of research. This appendix describes some of the resources available on the World Wide Web that provide genetic and genomic data, tools for analyzing genome data, information on funding opportunities, and information about ethical, legal and social issues associated with the genetic analysis of disease traits.
Many of the units in this manual describe methods and techniques for the cloning, expression, and structural analysis of neural genes and proteins. We assume that users of these protocols have at least some introductory background in recombinant DNA technology (or are working with a collaborator who does); therefore, we have not provided comprehensive coverage of all of these topics, but rather have concentrated on presenting selected techniques that will be of the most interest and use to the general neuroscience laboratory. More comprehensive coverage of these topics can be found in Current Protocols in Molecular Biology (CPMB), which is extensively cross-referenced throughout this manual. These cross-references are summarized in this appendix.
We investigated neonates' capacity to haptically compare objects varying in texture property. Right-hand manual activity, assessed by holding time and hand-pressure frequency, was recorded for objects in the presence (test period) or absence (pretest and post-test periods) of an object simultaneously held in the left hand. Thirty-two babies were assigned to four experimental conditions according to the texture density of the object held in each hand: Objects had either the same (matching conditions) or different (non-matching conditions) texture density. Although holding time decreased during test period in both conditions, hand-pressure frequency changed according to the matching and non-matching conditions. In the matching condition, hand-pressure frequency of the right hand did not differ from hand-pressure frequency of the left hand. In the non-matching condition, hand-pressure frequency recorded from the right hand was significantly higher than hand-pressure frequency recorded from the left hand. These results point to neonates' capacity to compare information between simultaneously held objects. These results are interpreted in relation to existing data on the early capacity for intermodal exploration of objects.
The vertebrate inner ear develops from the otic placode, an ectodermal thickening that forms adjacent to the presumptive hindbrain. Previous studies have suggested that competent ectodermal cells respond to signals from adjacent tissues to form the placode. Members of the Fgf family of growth factors and the Dlx family of transcription factors have been implicated in this signal-response pathway. We show that compromising Fgf3 and Fgf8 signaling blocks ear development; only a few scattered otic cells form. Removal of dlx3b, dlx4b and sox9a genes together also blocks ear development, although a few residual cells form an otic epithelium. These cells fail to form if sox9b function is also blocked. Combined loss of Fgf signaling and the three transcription factor genes, dlx3b, dlx4b and sox9a, also completely eliminates all indications of otic cells. Expression of sox9a but not dlx3b, dlx4b or sox9b requires Fgf3 and Fgf8. Our results provide evidence for Fgf3- and Fgf8-dependent and -independent genetic pathways for otic specification and support the notion that Fgf3 and Fgf8 function to induce both the otic placode and the epithelial organization of the otic vesicle.
In spinal cord, oligodendrocyte precursors that give rise to myelin-forming cells originate in a restricted domain of the ventral ventricular zone. During development, these cells migrate widely throughout the spinal cord. Netrin 1 is expressed at the ventral ventricular zone during oligodendrocyte precursors emigration, and, in vitro, netrin 1 acts as chemorepellent and antagonizes platelet-derived growth factor (PDGF) chemoattraction. Oligodendrocyte precursors express the netrin receptors DCC and UNC5 and function-blocking anti-DCC antibody inhibits chemorepulsion of ventral spinal cord explants and netrin-secreting cells. In spinal cord slice preparations, addition of function-blocking anti-DCC antibody or netrin 1 dramatically inhibits oligodendrocyte precursor migration from the ventral ventricular zone. These data indicate the initial dispersal of oligodendrocyte precursors from their localized origin is guided by a chemorepellent response to netrin 1.
Math1 is a basic helix-loop-helix transcription factor expressed in progenitor cells that give rise to dorsal commissural interneurons in the spinal cord, granule cells of the cerebellum, and sensory cells in the inner ear and skin. Transcriptional regulation of this gene is tightly controlled both temporally and spatially during nervous system development. The signals that mediate this regulation are likely integrated at the Math1 enhancer, which is highly conserved among vertebrate species. We have identified the zinc-finger transcription factor Zic1 as a regulator of Math1 expression. Zic1 binds a novel conserved site within the Math1 enhancer, and represses both the expression of endogenous Cath1 (chicken homolog of Math1) and the activity of a Math1 enhancer driven lacZ reporter when expressed in chick neural tubes. Repression by Zic1 blocks the autoregulatory activity of Math1 itself. Although previous reports have shown that Zic1 and Math1 are both induced by BMP signaling, these genes appear to have opposing functions, as Math1 acts to promote neuronal differentiation in the chick neural tube and excess Zic1 appears to block differentiation. Zic1-mediated repression of Cath1 transcription may modulate the temporal switch between the progenitor state and differentiating dorsal cell types during neural tube development.
Despite the prevalence of their use, little is currently known of the molecular mechanisms of action of inhaled drugs of abuse. Recent studies have shown effects on NMDA, GABA(A) and glycine receptors in vitro, suggesting that inhalants may exert at least some of their pharmacological effects on ligand-gated ion channels. Enhancement of serotonin-3 receptor function has been shown to play a role in the reinforcing properties of drugs of abuse. We tested the hypothesis that the commonly abused inhaled agents 1,1,1-trichloroethane, trichloroethylene, and toluene enhance serotonin-3 receptor function. All three inhalants significantly and reversibly potentiated, in a dose-dependent manner, serotonin-activated currents mediated by mouse serotonin-3A receptors expressed in Xenopus oocytes. Our findings add the serotonin-3 receptor to the growing list of molecular targets commonly affected by both inhalants and classic CNS depressants such as ethanol and the volatile anesthetics.
Alcohol deprivation effect (ADE), i.e. the transient increase in alcohol intake that takes place in laboratory animals after a period of alcohol deprivation, has been proposed to model alcohol relapses in alcoholics. The present study investigated the effect of the GABA(B) receptor agonist, baclofen, on the development of ADE in selectively bred Sardinian alcohol-preferring (sP) rats. Acute administration of non-sedative doses of baclofen (0, 1, 1.7 and 3 mg/kg, i.p.) resulted in the complete suppression of the extra-amount of alcohol consumed during the first hour of re-access to alcohol after 7 days of deprivation. These results implicate the GABA(B) receptor in the neural substrate mediating ADE and suggest that baclofen may possess anti-relapse properties.
Despite the fact that most researchers acknowledge the high prevalence of comorbid substance abuse among schizophrenic patients, there is no common agreement regarding the etiology of this serious public health problem. At the center of this debate though, Khantzian's self-medication hypothesis has captured most of the attention. In the present literature review, the authors evaluate this hypothesis in the light of our current knowledge. Formulated in a clinical context, in reaction to the psychoanalytic interpretation of addiction as a pleasure seeking pathology, Khantzian's hypothesis holds that schizophrenic patients use psychoactive substances to relieve their symptoms. Properly understood, this conjecture presupposes that, with the relief of certain target symptoms, substance use would no more be a necessity. But in reality, the use of psychoactive substances usually leads to a general deterioration of the patients' condition. Pharmacodependent schizophrenic patients relapse more often, they are more frequently hospitalized, they show more violent behaviors, and they are more frequently homeless. In particular, the positive symptoms of these patients are generally exacerbated by the psychoactive drugs--with the possible exception of opiates. This observation is in lign with the fact that psychostimulants (cocaine, amphetamines), anesthesic dissociatives (PCP, ketamine) as well as hallucinogens (cannabis, LSD) are all known to exert psychotomimetic effects. As for negative symptoms, the reality is more complex. Preliminary results certainly suggest that stimulants (minor or major) relieve these symptoms, but in the case of the other psychoactive substances, empirical evidence remains fragmentary. Still, the properties of psychoactive substances invite to pay close attention, among the negative symptoms, to the cognitive deficits, the social inaptitudes and the hedonic deficits of these patients. Unsatisfied with the self-medication hypothesis, an increasing number of researchers hypothesize that schizophrenic patients abuse drugs in hope to relieve the negative affects (stress, depression) that commonly accompany their symptomatology. Interestingly, increasing data link these negative manifestations and substance abuse among schizophrenic patients. But these same data do not elucidate whether these manifestations are primary or secondary to drug abuse. For the moment, these findings must be replicated. Furthermore, it remains to be clarified what negative affect is involved here. Is it stress, anxiety or, as commonly thought, depression? Other paths aim in the direction of personality traits and dissociation. The first path is suggested by recent studies demonstrating that pharmacodependent schizophrenic patients differ from non-abusing schizophrenics in that their personality is characterized by traits such as sensation seeking and impulsivity. As for the second path, it is suggested by a recurrent observation in addictive medicine practice, that is: alcohol, cannabis, ketamine, LSD, opiates, PCP, all these substances can induce dissociative states (depersonalization, derealization, etc.). Surprisingly, most of the hypotheses advanced so far have been formulated without reference to neuroscience. However, from a biological perspective, substance abuse among schizophrenic patients appears paradoxical: while the positive symptoms of schizophrenia might involve an hyperactivity of the reward system, the drugs of abuse all seem to increase dopamine release in that same system. That very paradox further casts some doubt on the self-medication hypothesis. And it opens an alternative: schizophrenic patients might be biologically vulnerable to the rewarding effects of drugs abuse. On the therapeutic level finally, the authors argue that polypharmacy medications such as clozapine and quetiapine, known to act on the reward system preferentially to the extrapyramidal system and known to dissociate fastly from the dopamine-D2 receptor, could simplify clinical intervention.




In the pyramidal cell layer of the CA1 region of the hippocampus in the urethane-anesthetized adult rat, there is an initial alkalinization followed by an acidification in response to synchronized seizure activity induced by stimulus trains. In this study, the role of astrocytes in these extracellular pH changes during neuronal activity was examined using local injection of two relatively selective glial toxins (fluorocitrate (FC) and fluoroacetate (FA)) into the CA1 cell layer. Both glial toxins reduced the peak level of acidification reached after 20 Hz stimulus trains to the contralateral CA3 region, without changing the lengthening of the afterdischarge, when compared to animals that had received a local injection of vehicle. After administration of either glial toxin, the peak level of acidification still correlated with the total discharge duration, but the levels of acidification were consistently lower than in control animals. Administration of either glial toxin had no effect on the peak alkalinization during the stimulus train, or on the rate of recovery from peak level of acidification. Injection of either vehicle, FA, or FC had no effect on the amplitude or frequency of the neuronal discharge during the afterdischarge. The results suggest that, in normal conditions, astrocytes contribute to the acidification of the extracellular space that occurs in response to intense neuronal activity. This acidification may contribute to feedback regulation of neuronal excitability.
Absence epilepsy is characterised by recurrent periods of physical and mental inactivity coupled to bilateral, synchronous spike and wave discharges (SWDs) on the electroencephalogram. The mechanism of action of ethosuximide (ETX), a drug specific for absence seizures, is believed to involve a reduction in the low threshold T-type Ca(2+) current in thalamocortical and nucleus reticularis thalami (NRT) neurones, although other electrophysiological data have questioned this. Here, we employed a genetic rat model of absence seizures to investigate the effects of directly administering ETX to the thalamus.SWDs were immediately and substantially reduced (approximately 90%) by systemic administration of ETX (177-709 micromol/kg), or by bilateral microinfusion into the thalamus of the GABA(B) antagonist, CGP 36742 (5-27 nmol per side). However, infusion of ETX (1-200 nmol per side) into the ventrobasal complex or the NRT resulted in a reduction of SWDs that was delayed (30-60 min) and less marked (approximately 50%). Administration of ETX (0.2 mM to 1M) to a greater volume of thalamus by reverse microdialysis also produced significant but delayed reduction of SWDs at concentrations &gt;1mM. Only at 5mM were seizures significantly reduced (approximately 70%) within 30 min of administration. These results suggest that targeting of the thalamus alone may be insufficient for an immediate and full anti-absence action for ETX. Concomitant or exclusive actions in the cortex remain a possibility.
In recent years there has been a growing interest in medical and particularly neurological education and how this should be related to the needs for patient care. To evaluate neurological training in Italy, we conducted a survey of the residency programmes aimed at different aspects of training. The survey was conducted in the 38 neurological Italian teaching hospitals and 27 of these answered. Six of the 27 centres organized all of the scheduled teaching courses. The quality of courses was considered 'not sufficient' in 11 schools and 'good' in 12. Seminars were regularly performed in 18 centres but in 60% of these the number was &lt;1 per week. Questionnaires to evaluate the quality of teaching were lacking in all centres. Regarding the procedures performed by each resident there was a large variation between the different schools. A regular rotation of each resident in the neurophysiology services was performed in 14 schools. Ward and out patient activity varied widely and details are given. We conclude that there is marked heterogeneity in training programmes between different centres. Some important activities such as seminars and rotation in neurophysiology are performed poorly.
Several human and rat studies suggest that the striatal dynorphin system is important for neuroadaptation following cocaine exposure. In the current study, prodynorphin (PDYN) mRNA expression was examined in monkeys at initial and chronic phases of cocaine self-administration. Adult Rhesus monkeys were trained to self-administer food (banana flavoured pellets) or cocaine (0.03 or 0.3 mg/kg per injection) on a fixed interval 3-min schedule for 5 or 100 sessions. Each session ended after 30 reinforcers were delivered. The PDYN mRNA expression was analysed in the precommissural striatum using in situ hybridization histochemistry. We found a specific activation of PDYN mRNA expression in the limbic-innervated patch/striosome compartment of the dorsal caudate and dorsal putamen during the initial (i.e. 5 day) phase of the high dose cocaine self-administration. After 100 days of the high dose exposure, the patch/striosome compartment remained activated, but an increase in PDYN mRNA levels was also evident in the sensorimotor-connected matrix compartment of the caudate. Neither self-administration phase resulted in significant changes in the corresponding striatal regions of the low dose cocaine-exposed primates. Moreover, cocaine self-administration failed to alter the PDYN mRNA expression in high- or low-expressing PDYN cell populations in the nucleus accumbens during any condition studied. These results demonstrate the vulnerability of the dorsal striatum (in particular the caudate) to neuroadaptations following long-term high dose cocaine self-administration. In addition, the temporal nature of the changes in PDYN gene expression within the striatal compartments could reflect a change in drug responsivity that occurs during the transition to drug dependence.
Prion diseases are fatal, chronic neurodegenerative diseases of mammals, characterized by amyloid deposition, astrogliosis, microglial activation, tissue vacuolation and neuronal loss. In the ME7 model of prion disease in the C57BL/6 J mouse, we have shown previously that these animals display behavioural changes that indicate the onset of neuronal dysfunction. The current study examines the neuropathological correlates of these early behavioural changes. After injection of ME7-infected homogenate into the dorsal hippocampus, we found statistically significant impairment of burrowing, nesting and glucose consumption, and increased open field activity at 13 weeks. At this time, microglia activation and PrPSc deposition was visible selectively throughout the limbic system, including the hippocampus, entorhinal cortex, medial and lateral septum, mamillary bodies, dorsal thalamus and, to a lesser degree, in regions of the brainstem. No increase in apoptosis or neuronal cell loss was detectable at this time, while in animals at 19 weeks postinjection there was 40% neuronal loss from CA1. There was a statistically significant reduction in synaptophysin staining in the stratum radiatum of the CA1 at 13 weeks indicating loss of presynaptic terminals. Damage to the dorsal hippocampus is known to disrupt burrowing and nesting behaviour. We have demonstrated a neuropathological correlate of an early behavioural deficit in prion disease and suggest that this should allow insights into the first steps of the neuropathogenesis of prion diseases.
To what extent the hippocampus is required for contextual conditioning remains a matter of debate. The present experiments examined the effects of ibotenate hippocampal lesions on discriminative fear conditioning to context in mice using measures of freezing in two conditioning paradigms. In both paradigms animals received foot shock as the unconditional stimulus (US) when placed in the (conditioning) context and no foot-shock when placed in the other (neutral) context. In both contexts, animals were presented with a tone as the conditioned stimulus (CS). In the conditioning context there was either no interval (delay condition) or a 30-s interval (trace condition) between tone CS end and shock US onset. These two paradigms were used because theory predicts that in the trace condition animals would learn more about contextual cues as predictors, or not, of shock US occurrence than in the delay condition. In agreement with this, we observed that sham-operated mice learned the context discrimination faster in the trace than in the delay condition. Lesions of the hippocampus significantly retarded, but did not prevent, the acquisition of the context discrimination in the trace condition. In contrast, lesions produced an opposite (facilitatory) effect in the delay condition, which was mainly observed during tone CS presentation. The data suggest that mice used two distinct competing strategies in solving this discrimination task: (i) a strategy relying on the processing of background contextual stimuli allowing direct establishment of context-US associations of different strengths, and (ii) a conditional cue (tone)-based strategy. Hence, hippocampal lesions may impair the use of the former strategy while exacerbating (unmasking) the use of the latter.
Carrageenan-induced inflammatory pain lasting hours to days produces a protein kinase C epsilon (PKC epsilon )-dependent 'primed' state lasting several weeks, during which time injection of prostaglandin E2 induces hyperalgesia which is markedly enhanced and prolonged compared to PGE2-induced hyperalgesia in normal 'unprimed' rats. In the present study, we demonstrate that while inhibition of prostaglandin synthesis and antagonism of beta2-adrenergic receptors markedly attenuated the hyperalgesia induced by carrageenan, these interventions did not affect hyperalgesic priming. Tumor necrosis factor-alpha (rat recombinant; rrTNFalpha), another mediator of carrageenan-induced inflammation, alone produced hyperalgesia and priming, which were attenuated and prevented, respectively, by intrathecal administration of antisense to PKC epsilon. Inhibition of TNFalpha with thalidomide or a rat polyclonal anti-TNFalpha antibody attenuated carrageenan-induced hyperalgesia and prevented priming. Intrathecal administration of antisense to tumour necrosis factor receptor type-1 (TNFR1) reduced the level of TNFR1 transported toward the peripheral terminals of sensory neurons, and attenuated both carrageenan- and rrTNFalpha-induced priming. Acute hyperalgesia induced by carrageenan or rrTNFalpha remained intact in animals treated with TNFR1 antisense. Our results demonstrate that the generation of the primed state does not require production of hyperalgesia and that TNFalpha, which is generated during acute inflammation, can act on sensory neurons to induce hyperalgesic priming by activating neuronal PKC epsilon.
The mammalian olfactory bulb is characterized by prominent oscillatory activity of its local field potentials. Breathing imposes the most important rhythm. Other rhythms have been described in the beta- and gamma-frequency ranges. We recorded unitary activities in different bulbar layers simultaneously with local field potentials in order to examine the different relationships existing between (i) breathing and field potential oscillations, and (ii) breathing and spiking activity of different cell types. We show that, whatever the layer, odour-induced gamma oscillations always occur around the transition point between inhalation and exhalation while beta oscillations appear during early exhalation and may extend up to the end of inhalation. By contrast, unitary activities exhibit different characteristics according to the layer. They vary in (i) their temporal relationship with respect to the respiratory cycle; (ii) their spike rates; (iii) their temporal patterns defined according to the respiratory cycle. The time window of a respiratory cycle might thus be split into three main epochs based on the deceleration of field potential rhythms (from gamma to beta oscillations) and a simultaneous gradient of spike discharge frequencies ranging from 180 to 30 Hz. We discuss the possibility that each rhythm could serve different functions as priming, gating or tuning for the bulbar network.
Melanopsin-expressing ganglion cells have been proposed as the photoreceptors mediating non-rod, non-cone ocular responses to light. Here we use the aged (approximately 2 years) rodless and coneless (rd/rd cl) mouse to assess the impact of progressive inner retinal cell loss on melanopsin expression, circadian entrainment and pupillary constriction. Aged rd/rd cl mice show substantial transneuronal retinal degeneration leaving only the ganglion cell layer and little of the inner nuclear layer. Despite this loss, quantitative reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction showed normal levels of melanopsin expression, and immunocytochemistry demonstrated both the presence and normal cellular appearance of these cells. Furthermore, the optic nerves of the two genotypes (rd/rd cl and +/+) were not obviously different in animals older than 2 years. However, this massive level of retinal degeneration left both pupillary and circadian responses to light intact, even in rd/rd cl mice older than 2 years. Our data provide the first positive correlation between the persistence of melanopsin-expressing cells and the maintenance of both circadian and pupillary responses to light in the absence of rods and cones. These findings, together with recent studies on melanopsin knockout mice, are consistent with the hypothesis that melanopsin-expressing ganglion cells are photosensitive and mediate a range of irradiance-detection tasks.
Prepulse inhibition of the acoustic startle response is a behavioural tool applied to assess sensorimotor gating processes in humans and rats. Schizophrenic patients show deficits in prepulse inhibition of the acoustic startle response. The animal model of neurodevelopmental disorders such as schizophrenia, as purported in earlier reports and the present study, is based on the assumption that damage to brain structures early in life (on day 7) disrupts brain maturation of structures connected to the damaged areas, measurable by behavioural changes, whereas similar damage later in life (on day 21) does not result in these behavioural changes. Locomotor activity, the acoustic startle response and its prepulse inhibition were investigated in adult rats lesioned in the amygdala or ventral hippocampus on day 7 or 21 of life. The acoustic startle response was increased in animals lesioned in the amygdala on day 7 or 21 of life, but not in animals lesioned in the ventral hippocampus. Prepulse inhibition was impaired and locomotor activity enhanced in animals lesioned in the amygdala or ventral hippocampus on day 7, but not in animals lesioned in these structures on day 21 of life. The results on the acoustic startle response are suggestive of amygdaloid influences on modulation of the acoustic startle response. The effects of early postnatal lesions on prepulse inhibition and locomotor activity are in support of the animal model of neurodevelopmental disorders like schizophrenia.


Increasing evidence supports the notion that reduction of cellular expression and activity of antioxidant proteins and the resulting increase of oxidative stress are fundamental causes in the aging processes and neurodegenerative diseases. In the present study, we evaluated, in the brains of young and aged rats, the gene expression profiles of two inducible proteins critically involved in the cellular defense against endogenous or exogenous oxidants: heme oxygenase-1 (HO-1) and manganese superoxide dismutase-2 (SOD-2). SOD-2 is an essential antioxidant and HO-1 has been reported to be very active in regulating cellular redox homeostasis. Deregulation of these enzymes has been extensively reported to play a crucial role in the pathogenesis of neurodegenerative disorders. To measure the regional distribution of HO-1 and SOD-2 transcript levels in the rat brain, we have developed a real time quantitative reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction protocol. Although these two genes presented a highly dissimilar range of expression, with SOD-2 &gt;HO-1, both transcripts were highly expressed in the cerebellum and the hippocampus, showing in a different scale a strikingly parallel distribution gradient. To further investigate the regional brain expression of these mRNAs, we performed in situ hybridization using specific riboprobes. In situ hybridization results showed that both transcripts were highly concentrated in the hippocampus, the cerebellum and some specific regions of the brain cortex. We have also quantified, by reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction, the brain expression of HO-1 and SOD-2 mRNAs in middle aged (12 months) and aged (28 months) rats. We found that the hippocampus of aged rats presents a significant down regulation of SOD2 mRNA expression and a parallel upregulation of HO-1 mRNA compared with young (6 months) and middle-aged rats. Furthermore, in the cerebellum of the aged rats, we detected a parallel significant upregulation of both HO-1 and SOD-2 transcripts. These regional age-dependent differences may help to explain the increased susceptibility to oxidative damage in these two brain areas during aging.
Our ability to recognize and manipulate objects relies on our haptic sense of the objects' geometry. But little is known about the acuity of haptic perception compared to other senses like sight and hearing. Here, we determined how accurately humans could sense various geometric features of objects across the workspace. Subjects gripped the handle of a robot arm which was programmed to keep the hand inside a planar region with straight or curved boundaries. With eyes closed, subjects moved the manipulandum along this virtual wall and judged its curvature or direction. We mapped their sensitivity in different parts of the workspace. We also tested subjects' ability to discriminate between boundaries with different degrees of curvature, to sense the rate of change of curvature, and to detect the elongation or flattening of ellipses. We found that subjects' estimates of the curvature of their hand path were close to veridical, and did not change across the workspace though they did vary somewhat with hand path direction. Subjects were less accurate at judging the direction of the hand path in an egocentric frame of reference, and were slightly poorer at discriminating between arcs of different curvature than at detecting absolute curvature. They also consistently mistook flattened ellipses and paths of decreasing curvature (inward spirals) for circles-and mistook arcs of true circles for arcs of tall ellipses or outward spirals. Nevertheless, the sensitivity of haptic perception compared well with that of spatial vision in other studies. Furthermore, subjects detected curvature and directional deviations much smaller than those that actually arise for most reaching movements. These findings suggest that our haptic sense is acute enough to guide and train motor systems and to form accurate representations of shapes.
This study investigated whether potential emotional cues for drinking activate alcohol concepts in young drinkers. Participants were 84 university freshmen with high or low levels of anxiety sensitivity (AS). A verbal priming task measured activation (i.e., priming) of alcohol concepts (e.g., beer) by positive and negative mood phrases. Time to read alcohol target words was the dependent measure. Negative mood phrases consistently primed alcohol targets; positive mood phrases did not. Degree of negative mood priming did not differ as a function of gender or AS. Reported tendency to drink in bad moods predicted negative mood priming in women, whereas men showed negative mood priming irrespective of their reported drinking tendency. A general association between negative mood priming and severity of alcohol problems also emerged.

The benzothiazepine, diltiazem, is commonly used as an inhibitor of vascular L-type Ca channels, and is a clinically important anti-anginal and antihypertensive medication. In the retina, diltiazem also inhibits cyclic-nucleotide gated (CNG) channels, including the cGMP-gated channels in photoreceptors, and has been suggested to be a neuroprotectant in an animal model of retinitis pigmentosa, a degenerative disease of photoreceptors. In contrast to CNG channels, the actions of diltiazem on photoreceptor Ca channels have not been studied. We show that D-cis-diltiazem can block Ca channels in cone photoreceptors and that the potency and efficacy of cone photoreceptor Ca channel inhibition by this drug is unconventional. Over the concentration range of 5-500 microM diltiazem, the dose response curve was biphasic with a high affinity saturation level of approximately 30% block in the 20-50 microM range (IC(50)=4.9 microM) and a low affinity saturation block (near 100%) with concentrations up to 500 microM (IC(50)=100.4 microM). The degree of block was found to be equivalent when Bay K 8644 was used to increase Ca channel current, indicating that the levels of block do not result from multiple Ca channel subtypes having differing sensitivities to diltiazem. Calcium imaging showed that the relatively low efficacy of the high-affinity Ca channel block was not due to the species of charge-carrying divalent cation nor that it was associated with dialysis of cellular contents. These data contribute to an emerging perspective that the photoreceptor Ca channel has properties unique from other L-type channels, an important consideration should these channels become a target for testing putative neuroprotective therapies.
Multiple system atrophy (MSA) belongs to synucleinopathies and is characterized pathologically by oligodendroglial inclusions (GCIs) composed of 20- to 30-nm tubular filaments. alpha-Synuclein fibrils formed in vitro, however, range between 10 and 12 nm in diameter. To understand the relationship between alpha-synuclein and GCI filaments, we conducted structural analyses of GCIs in fixed brain sections and isolated from fresh-frozen MSA brains. In fixed brain sections, GCIs were composed of amorphous material-coated filaments up to 30 nm in size. The filaments were often organized in parallel bundles extending into oligodendroglial processes. In freshly isolated GCIs, progressive buffer washes removed amorphous material and revealed that GCI filaments consisted of 10-nm-sized central core fibrils that were strongly alpha-synuclein immunoreactive. Image analysis revealed that each core fibril was made of two subfibrils, and each subfibril was made of a string of 3- to 6-nm-sized particles probably alpha-synuclein oligomers. Immunogold labeling demonstrated that epitopes encompassing entire alpha-synuclein molecule were represented in the core fibrils, with the N-terminal 11-26 and C-terminal 108-131 amino acid residues most accessible to antibodies, probably exposed on the surface of the fibril. Our study indicates that GCI filaments are multilayered in structure, with alpha-synuclein oligomers forming the central core fibrils of the filaments.
Nervous system growth factors promote axonal growth following acute spinal cord injury. In the present experiment, we examined whether delivery of neurotrophic factors after chronic spinal cord injury would also promote axonal growth and influence functional outcomes. Adult Fischer 344 rats underwent mid-thoracic spinal cord dorsal hemisection lesions. Three months later, primary fibroblasts genetically modified to express human neurotrophin-3 (NT-3) were placed in, and distal to, the lesion cavity. Upon sacrifice 3 months later (6 months following the initial lesion), NT-3-grafted animals exhibited significant growth of corticospinal axons up to 15 mm distal to the lesion site and showed a modest but significant 1.5-point improvement in locomotor scores (P &lt; 0.05) on the BBB scale, compared to control-grafted animals. Thus, growth factor gene delivery can elicit growth of corticospinal axons in chronic stages of injury and improves functional outcomes compared to non-growth-factor-treated animals.
It has been reported that the H1 haplotype of the tau gene, located on chromosome 17q21, is associated with progressive supranuclear palsy. Recently, it has also been claimed that the H1 haplotype could also be a risk factor for frontotemporal dementia. However, these claims are variable and the involvement of the apolipoprotein E gene as well as the H1 haplotype has been suggested. In light of this we assessed the frequency of tau gene haplotypes in 113 cases of frontotemporal lobar degeneration and 168 control samples. We found a positive association between the H1 haplotype and frontotemporal dementia, but not with any of the other disease groupings (P = 0.029, odds ratio 1.81). We did not observe any affect on age at onset and tau haplotype or apolipoprotein E alleles, nor were any deviation from control frequencies of apolipoprotein E alleles observed. These data are consistent with the hypothesis that the tau gene, or nearby gene on the H1 haplotype, is a risk factor for frontotemporal dementia.
Vagal cardioinhibition is exerted through a reduction not only in the heart rate but also in the rate of propagation of the cardiac action potential and in myocardial contractility. In several species, such effects can be produced independently by selective activation of ganglia in identified 'fat pads'. In this study we investigate differential control of heart rate and atrioventricular conduction by two ganglionic clusters in the rat, a species increasingly important in studies of cardiovascular control. Epicardial sites producing low-threshold changes in P-P and P-R interval of the ECG in an arterially perfused preparation were explored with concentric bipolar stimulating electrodes. Stimulation sites centred on two principal ganglia, the sinoatrial (SA) ganglion at the junction of the right superior vena cava and right atrium, and the atrioventricular (AV) ganglion at the junction of the inferior pulmonary veins and left atrium. Stimulation of the SA ganglion decreased heart rate in all preparations, with little or no effect on AV conduction in one-third. Stimulation of the AV ganglion consistently slowed conduction without eliciting a comparable bradycardia. Responses survived blockade of ganglionic transmission by trimetaphan, with an enhanced chronotropic selectivity to SA ganglion stimulation, suggesting that co-excitation of preganglionic elements en passant may have contributed to the earlier mixed responses. Effective stimulation sites were precisely circumscribed and corresponded to principal ganglionic clusters confirmed histologically. We conclude that cardiac vagal ganglia in the rat show a topographical functional organisation and are amenable to investigation using the arterially perfused preparation.
Increase in free intracellular calcium [Ca 2+]i plays a crucial role in cardiomyocyte ischemic injury. Here we demonstrate that overexpression of the sarcoplasmic-reticulum stress-protein Grp94 reduces myocyte necrosis due to calcium overload or simulated ischemia. Selective three- to eightfold Grp94 increase, with no change in Grp78 or calreticulin amount, was achieved by stable transfection of skeletal C2C12 and cardiac H9c2 muscle cells. After exposure to the calcium ionophore A23187, LDH release from five different Grp94-overexpressing clones of either C2C12 and H9c2 origin was significantly lower than that of control ones and [Ca 2+]i increase was significantly delayed. The number of necrotic cells, evaluated by propidium iodide uptake, was reduced when cells from the Grp94-overexpressing H9c2 clone were exposed to conditions simulating ischemia. Experiments performed in neonatal rat cardiomyocytes co-transfected with grp94 and the green fluorescent protein (GFP) cDNAs validated the protective effect of Grp94 overexpression. A lower percentage of propidium-iodide positive/GFP-fluorescent myocytes co-expressing exogenous Grp94, with respect to myocytes expressing GFP alone, was observed after exposure to either A23187 (6.6% vs. 14.0%, respectively) or simulated ischemia (8.5% vs. 17.7%, respectively). In conclusion, the selective increase in Grp94 protects cardiomyocytes from both ischemia and calcium overload counteracting [Ca 2+]i elevations.
The effects of neonatal dexamethasone (DEX) treatment on spatial learning and hippocampal synaptic plasticity were investigated in adult rats. Spatial learning in reference and working memory versions of the Morris maze was impaired in DEX-treated rats. In hippocampal slices of DEX rats, long-term depression was facilitated and potentiation was impaired. Paired-pulse facilitation was normal, suggesting a postsynaptic defect as cause of the learning and plasticity deficits. Western blot analysis of hippocampal postsynaptic densities (PSD) revealed a reduction in NR2B subunit protein, whereas the abundance of the other major N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor subunits (NR1, NR2A), AMPA receptor subunits (GluR2/3), scaffolding proteins, and Ca2+/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II (alphaCaMKII) were unaltered. This selective reduction in NR2B likely resulted from altered receptor assembly rather than subunit expression, because the abundance of NR2B in the homogenate and crude synaptosomal fractions was unaltered. In addition, the activity of alphaCaMKII, an NMDA receptor complex associated protein kinase, was increased in PSD of DEX rats. The results indicate that neonatal treatment with DEX causes alterations in composition and function of the hippocampal NMDA receptor complex that persist into adulthood. These alterations likely explain the deficits in hippocampal synaptic plasticity and spatial learning induced by neonatal DEX treatment.
Clinical studies suggest that estrogen may improve cognition in Alzheimer's patients. Basic experiments demonstrate that 17beta-estradiol protects against neurodegeneration in both cell and animal models. In the present study, a human SH-SY5Y cell model was used to investigate molecular mechanisms underlying the receptor-mediated neuroprotection of physiological concentrations of 17beta-estradiol. 17beta-estradiol (&lt;10 nM) concomitantly increased neuronal nitric oxide synthase (NOS1) expression and cell viability. 17beta-estradiol-induced neuroprotection was blocked by the receptor antagonist ICI 182,780, also prevented by inhibitors of NOS1 (7-nitroindazole), guanylyl cyclase (LY 83,583), and cGMP-dependent protein kinase (PKG) (Rp-8-pCPT-cGMPs). In addition to the expression of NOS1 and MnSOD, 17beta-estradiol increased the expression of the redox protein thioredoxin (Trx), which was blocked by the inhibition of either cGMP formation or PKG activity. The expression of heme oxygenase 2 and brain-derived neurotrophic factor was not altered. Estrogen receptor-enhanced cell viability against oxidative stress may be linked to Trx expression because the Trx reductase inhibitor, 5,5'-dithio-bis(2-nitrobenzoic acid) significantly reduced the cytoprotective effect of 17beta-estradiol. Furthermore, Trx (1 microM) inhibited lipid peroxidation, proapoptotic caspase-3, and cell death during oxidative stress caused by serum deprivation. We conclude that cGMP-dependent expression of Trx--the redox protein with potent antioxidative and antiapoptotic properties--may play a pivotal role in estrogen-induced neuroprotection.

A central neuronal network regulates airway functions from the nares to the bronchioles and is an integral component of a regulatory system for brain control of breathing and airway patency during wakefulness and sleep. This network, components of which include sleep generating sites and monoaminergic neurons in particular, is characterized by reciprocal interconnections, parallel organization, and state-dependent activity patterns, which can be influenced by both genes and environment. Sleep generating neurons are interconnected with the monoaminergic containing cells to the extent that sleep-related changes in upper and lower airway patency could be due to inhibitory influences of sleep-activated neurons on serotonergic and noradrenergic producing cells. Neurochemical studies and physiologic experiments show that serotonergic and noradrenergic producing cells can make parallel pathways, directly innervating the hypoglossal motor cells regulating upper airway dilating muscles, and vagal preganglionic neurons providing cholinergic outflow to the airways. Activation of serotonergic and noradrenergic cell groups preferentially increases activity of the genioglossus muscle, but diminishes cholinergic outflow to the airways. Hence, inhibition of monoaminergic neurons during sleep may lead to a decrease in upper airway dilating forces and an elevation of cholinergic outflow to the airways. Qualitatively different responses of hypoglossal and airway-related vagal preganglionic neurons (AVPNs) occur in response to endogenously released serotonin or norepinephrine and could be related to its simultaneous action on different serotonin or norepinephrine receptor subtypes. Dysfunction of monaminergic cell groups during sleep may predispose to upper airway occlusion as well as bronchoconstriction. Pharmacological corrections of alterations of these transmitter specific converging systems might be an avenue for treatment of sleep related airway disorders such as sleep apnea and worsening of asthma.
Most of the organisms living on earth show 24 hour (circadian) rhythms that are endogenously controlled by biological clocks. In mammals, these rhythms are generated by the circadian pacemaker located in the suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN) of the hypothalamus. However, recent studies have demonstrated that circadian oscillators can be found in many organs and tissues, and it appears that the circadian oscillators in the periphery are not self-sustained, since, in vitro, the oscillation disappears after a few cycles. Although analysis of the clockwork mechanism indicates that the molecular composition of the clock in the SCN and in the peripheral tissues is very similar, the mechanism responsible for the damping of the circadian oscillation in the periphery is unknown. Recent studies have also indicated that the mammalian circadian system is hierarchically organized in that the SCN (i.e., the master circadian pacemaker) controls the peripheral oscillators in order to coordinate the physiological events in an entire body. The mechanisms by which the SCN controls peripheral oscillators are just starting to be elucidated. The aim of this review is to summarize the most recent findings on functioning of these extra-SCN oscillators and the mechanisms the SCN controls peripheral oscillators.
Integrin receptors mediate cell-cell and cell-extracellular matrix (ECM) interactions in many different cell types, including neuronal cells. Earlier studies have shown a clear role for integrins in axon extension and cell adhesion/migration in CNS inflammation. Here we summarize more recent work that shows integrin functions in many phases of neural development, from neuroblast migration to synapse formation. Integrins of the beta-1 and alpha-v family are widely expressed on neurons at many stages of development, and their activity is regulated. Integrins are also important in the adult nervous system, since they have been implicated in synaptic plasticity involved in memory and learning. In addition, several diseases of the nervous system appear to involve beta-1, beta-2, and alpha-v integrins on leukocytes and glial cells. Research challenges for the future include understanding functions of specific integrin heterodimers and identifying the relevant integrin ligands that function in the nervous system.

The melanotrope cell of the amphibian Xenopus laevis is a neuroendocrine transducer that converts neuronal input concerning the color of background into an endocrine output, the release of alpha-melanophore-stimulating hormone (alpha-MSH). The cell displays intracellular Ca(2+) oscillations that are thought to be the driving force for secretion as well as for the expression of genes important to the process of background adaptation. Here we review the functioning of the Xenopus melanotrope cell, with emphasis on the role of Ca(2+) oscillations in signal transduction in this cell. We start by giving a general overview of the evolution of Ca(2+) as an intracellular messenger molecule. This is followed by an examination of the melanotrope as a neuroendocrine integrator cell. Then, the evidence that Ca(2+) oscillations drive the secretion of alpha-MSH is reviewed, followed by a similar analysis of the evidence that the same oscillations regulate the expression of proopiomelanocortin (POMC), the precursor protein for alpha-MSH. Finally, the possible importance of the pattern of Ca(2+) signaling to melanotrope cell function is considered.
For most retinal degeneration disorders, no efficient treatment exists to preserve photoreceptors (PRs) and, consequently, to maintain vision. Gene transfer appears to be a promising approach to prevent PR loss. In order to design adequate vectors to target specific retinal cell types, we have analyzed the expression pattern of three different promoters (mouse phosphoglycerate kinase 1 (PGK), elongation factor-1 (EFS), rhodopsin (Rho)) in newborn and adult DBA/2 mice retinas using self-inactivating lentiviral vectors. At 7 days after intraocular injection and in optimal conditions, cell transduction was observed up to 1.5 mm from the injection site. PGK promoter expression was predominant in the retinal pigment epithelium (RPE), especially in adult mice, whereas the EFS promoter allowed a broad expression in the retina. Finally, as expected, the Rho promoter was specifically expressed in PRs. Differences in the cell types transduced and in transduction efficiency were observed between newborn and adult injected eyes emphasizing the importance of such basic studies for further gene therapy approaches as well as for understanding the transcriptional changes during retinal maturation. Thus, for future attempts to slow or rescue retinal degeneration by lentiviral delivery, PGK and EFS are more suitable to control the expression of a supporting secreted factor, PGK being mainly expressed in RPE and EFS in different cell types throughout the entire retina, whereas Rho should allow to specifically deliver the therapeutic gene to PRs.
The melanocortin receptors (MCR) belong to the superfamily of G-protein-coupled receptors that participate in both peripheral and central functions, including regulation of energy balance. Genomic clones of the five chicken (GGA) MCRs were isolated and used to find the chromosomal location of each of the loci. The genes encoding MC2R and MC5R mapped to the middle part of the long arm of chromosome 2 (GGA2q22-q26) and MC4R proximally on the same chromosome arm, close to the centromere (2q12). This arrangement seems to be conserved on chromosome 18 in the human (HSA18). The MC1R and MC3R genes mapped to different microchromosomes that also appear to share homology with the respective human localization. The conserved synteny of the MC2R, MC5R, and MC4R cluster in chicken (GGA2), human (HSA18), and other mammals suggests that this cluster is ancient and was formed by local gene duplications that most likely occurred early in vertebrate evolution. Analysis of conserved synteny with mammalian genomes and paralogon segments prompted us to predict an ancestral gene organization that may explain how this family was formed through both local duplication and tetraploidization processes.
Both testosterone (T) and progesterone (P) facilitate the expression of male-typical sexual behavior in a variety of animals, including rodents and lizards. In two species of whiptail lizards, Cnemidophorus inornatus and C. uniparens, both hormones elicit the full repertoire of courtship behavior. However, the relative efficacy of the two hormones is unknown. In Experiments 1 and 2 we assessed differences in capacity of exogenous T and P to induce male-typical courtship behavior in gonadectomized whiptail lizards. In both species, individuals implanted with T showed more frequent courtship behavior relative to those implanted with P or cholesterol. In Experiments 3 and 4 we examined whether T and P differentially affected the retention of courtship behavior following implant removal. In both species, individuals implanted with T showed more courtship behavior following implant removal than those previously given P. In these experiments, implants were removed at a time when individuals in both groups were behaviorally similar; therefore, the differences in behavior following implant removal were not due to differences in the amount of courtship experience. Taken together, the hormone that was more effective at activating courtship behavior was also more effective at maintaining courtship behavior following implant removal. In summary, though both T and P can elicit identical sexual behaviors in both whiptail species, T has a greater and more lasting effect on courtship behavior and possibly on the neural circuits underlying courtship behavior.
The mechanisms underlying the transition of brain activity toward epileptic seizures remain unclear. Based on nonlinear analysis of both intracranial and scalp electroencephalographic (EEG) recordings, different research groups have recently reported dynamical smooth changes in epileptic brain activity several minutes before seizure onset. Such preictal states have been detected in populations of patients with mesial temporal lobe epilepsy (MTLE) and, more recently, with different neocortical partial epilepsies (NPEs). In this paper, we are particularly interested in the spatio-temporal organization of epileptogenic networks prior to seizures in neocortical epilepsies. For this, we characterize the network of two patients with NPE by means of two nonlinear measures of interdependencies. Since the synchronization of neuronal activity is an essential feature of the generation and propagation of epileptic activity, we have analyzed changes in phase synchrony between EEG time series. In order to compare the phase and amplitude dynamics, we have also studied the degree of association between pairs of signals by means of a nonlinear correlation coefficient. Recent findings have suggested changes prior to seizures in a wideband frequency range. Instead, for the examples of this study, we report a significant decrease of synchrony in the focal area several minutes before seizures (&gt;30 min in both patients) in the frequency band of 10-25 Hz mainly. Furthermore, the spatio-temporal organization of this preictal activity seems to be specifically related to this frequency band. Measures of both amplitude and phase coupling yielded similar results in narrow-band analysis. These results may open new perspectives on the mechanisms of seizure emergence as well as the organization of neocortical epileptogenic networks. The possibility of forecasting the onset of seizures has important implications for a better understanding, diagnosis and a potential treatment of the epilepsy.
The efficacy of oral immunization, with and without commercial adjuvants, to mount a systemic immune response in young chickens was studied. Bovine serum albumin (BSA) mixed with a pegylated C8/C10 mono/di-glyceride, (Softigen), or Cholera toxin B-subunit (CTB), administered orally by gavage to 15-day-old chickens resulted in circulating immunospecific anti-BSA IgG, IgM and IgA antibodies. Continuous 5-day oral administration of BSA without adjuvant also resulted in immunospecific IgM and IgA antibodies in the circulation of chickens first immunized at 15 days of age; and immunospecific antibodies of all three classes in chickens first immunized when they were 22 days old. IgG and IgM serum concentrations were more than 4 to 10 times higher, respectively, in CTB- and Softigen-treated chickens as compared to chickens immunized without adjuvants. The IgA response in the orally immunized chickens seemed unaffected by CTB and Softigen. The antibody concentrations in chickens immunized subcutaneously with BSA emulsified in Freund's Incomplete Adjuvant (FIA) were approximately 10 times higher than those of the chickens orally immunized using CTB and Softigen.
Fever is rarely caused by levamisole. We report a 26-year-old woman who repeatedly developed fever 4-12 hrs after taking levamisole. The association was confirmed by repeated provocation tests.
Short-term treatment with granulocyte colony-stimulating factor has been successful in reducing the duration of clozapine-induced agranulocytosis. Long-term combination treatment with filgrastim and clozapine in patients with clozapine-induced agranulocytosis has only been described in two previous cases. We describe three patients with schizophrenia who developed granulocytopenia or agranulocytosis during treatment with clozapine and who did not respond to other antipsychotics. The patients received long-term combination treatment with clozapine and filgrastim. Using a combination treatment with filgrastim and clozapine, the psychotic symptoms were successfully controlled and no haematological complications were observed during the follow-up periods of 11, 30 and 48 months, respectively. Our cases suggest that long-term treatment with filgrastim might be a useful, but exceptional, treatment approach in patients who have developed clozapine-induced granulocytopenia or agranulocytosis.
Chronic fatigue syndrome (CFS) is characterised by fatigue and musculosketetal pain, the severity of which is variable. Simple reaction times (SRTs) and movement times (SMTs) are slowed in CFS. Our objective is to correlate the day-to-day changes in symptomatology with any change in SRT, SMT or corticospinal excitability. Ten CFS patients were tested on two occasions up to two years apart. Motor evoked potentials (MEPs) to transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) of the motor cortex were recorded from the thenar muscles. Threshold TMS strength to evoke MEPs was measured to index corticospinal excitability. SRTs and SMTs were measured. The percentage change in both SRTs and SMTs between the two test sessions correlated with the percentage change in corticospinal excitability assessed according to threshold TMS intensity required to produce MEPs. This study provides evidence that changing motor deficits in CFS have a neurophysiological basis. The slowness of SRTs supports the notion of a deficit in motor preparatory areas of the brain.
The N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor plays an important role in developmental plasticity. Earlier, we have shown that blocking the NMDA receptor with the non-competitive antagonist phencyclidine (PCP), during a brief postnatal period, disrupts the water maze performance in young juvenile rats (starting at 25 days of age). We now show the long-term effects of postnatal phencyclidine exposure on spatial learning and memory. Male and female rats were exposed to PCP (1 and 5mg/kg) or saline, from postnatal days 5-15, and their performance in the Morris water maze (MWM) was tested both as adolescents (starting on postnatal day (PD) 35) and as adults (starting on postnatal day 60). Separate groups of adult male and female postnatal PCP-treated and saline-treated rats were sacrificed and saturation [3H]MK-801 binding experiments were carried out in their hippocampi and frontal cortices; hippocampus and frontal cortex have high densities of NMDA receptors and both regions are important in spatial learning and memory. Postnatal PCP administration disrupted the water maze performance both in adolescent and adult rats of both sexes. Adult male and female rats treated postnatally with PCP had increased maximal [3H]MK-801 binding in the hippocampus and frontal cortex compared to same-sex saline-treated controls. Taken together, repeated postnatal PCP (RPP) administration impaired the acquisition of spatial learning in adolescent and adult male and female rats, and this cognitive deficit was associated with increased [3H]MK-801 labeled NMDA receptor in the hippocampus and frontal cortex. These findings are consistent with the hypothesis that PCP treatment during the postnatal period produces deficits in the water maze performance by disrupting the developing glutamatergic system.
Recent studies have implicated the inhibitory neurotransmitter GABA in the regulation of cell migration and proliferation in the embryonic brain. Herein, we examine the possibility that these effects are maintained postnatally. Using 5 days postnatal hippocampus, we tested GABA effects on growth into an incision made in CA1 and the possibility that this response to GABA is mediated via GABA(A)-receptor. Our data shows that GABA promotes neurite growth, cell proliferation and migration up to day 6 in vitro. GABA(A)-receptor is not involved in the trophic response to either exogenous or endogenous GABA. Moreover, GABA induced a 20% increase in NGF secretion to the growth medium, in a similar time frame to its effect on growth. Elevated NGF secretion was suppressed by the inhibition of cell proliferation. These results suggest that GABA can promote growth in postnatal hippocampal tissue. The effect involves cell proliferation and NGF secretion and does not depend on GABA(A)-receptor activation.
The neuroprotective activity of a novel N-acylprolyl-containing dipeptide analog of the nootropic 2-oxo-1-pyrrolidine acetamide (Piracetam) designated as GVS-111 (DVD-111/Noopept) was tested in two in vitro models of neuronal degeneration mediated by oxidative stress: normal human cortical neurons treated with H(2)O(2), and Down's syndrome (DS) cortical neurons. Incubation of normal cortical neurons with 50 microM H(2)O(2) for 1h resulted in morphological and structural changes consistent with neuronal apoptosis and in the degeneration of more than 60% of the neurons present in the culture. GVS-111 significantly increased neuronal survival after H(2)O(2)-treatment displaying a dose-dependent neuroprotective activity from 10nM to 100 microM, and an IC(50) value of 1.21+/-0.07 microM. GVS-111 inhibited the accumulation of intracellular free radicals and lipid peroxidation damage in neurons treated with H(2)O(2) or FeSO(4), suggesting an antioxidant mechanism of action. GVS-111 exhibited significantly higher neuroprotection compared to the standard cognition enhancer Piracetam, or to the antioxidants Vitamin E, propyl gallate and N-tert-butyl-2-sulpho-phenylnitrone (s-PBN). In DS cortical cultures, chronic treatment with GVS-111 significantly reduced the appearance of degenerative changes and enhanced neuronal survival. The results suggest that the neuroprotective effect of GVS-111 against oxidative damage and its potential nootropic activity may present a valuable therapeutic combination for the treatment of mental retardation and chronic neurodegenerative disorders.
Theoretical and methodological issues in the psychophysiology of the schizophrenic process are reviewed. These include the importance of schizotypy with its compensatory abilities as well as deficits for elucidating the processes of development and prevention of schizophrenia. The importance of individual differences, syndromes and single case studies. The recognition that this is a dynamic and fluctuating illness and hence the relevance of functional neurophysiology, including the role of imbalances in hemispheric activation in ontogeny, developmental course, expression of symptoms, the effects of neuroleptics and recovery process, and the influence of stress a precipitant of breakdown. The role of thalamo-cortical activation systems. The particular value of electrocortical measures including the interrelations of electroencephalographic rhythms throughout the spectrum, and relations of gamma, dynamic core neuronal complexity, connectivity and sensory gating with experiences of unreality and disturbances of consciousness.
Neurosurgical operations under local anesthesia provide a unique opportunity to investigate the neurobiology of human cognition. We have studied the cortical organization of language and verbal memory in this setting, using two different techniques: electrical stimulation mapping and extracellular microelectrode recording of activity of individual neurons. The two techniques provide very different perspectives. Stimulation mapping identifies brain areas that are essential for a behavior, while changes in neuronal activity can occur in non-essential regions. Stimulation mapping identifies multiple discrete areas in perisylvian cortex of the dominant hemisphere as essential for a function, with separation of areas for different aspects of language including naming in two languages, different semantic classes, naming compared to reading, and language from verbal memory. There is substantial individual variation in the location of these essential areas, variability that in part relates to subjects age, gender and verbal abilities. Neurons changing activity with language or verbal memory are widely distributed, in both hemispheres. However, individual neurons usually change activity with only one function, including naming in only one of two languages, only naming or reading, or with recent verbal memory encoding but not identification of similar items. A few lateralized changes in neuronal activity have been identified, including a predominance of inhibition in dominant hemisphere with naming, and polymodal memory responses in dominant hemisphere, unimodal in nondominant. Specific neuronal populations have been identified that are related to different aspects of memory, that differentiate correct from incorrect identification or memory performance and differentiate learned from unlearned associations, with some evidence of differences in neuronal activity related to subjects' ability.



This Presidential Address commemorates the 20th Anniversary of the International Organization of Psychophysiology (I.O.P.) and its multiple contributions. I.O.P.'s leadership at the scientific, humanitarian, social and political levels is discussed and its special functions within the United Nations and the World Health Organization are emphasized. The status of neuroscientific Psychophysiology as a leading discipline of Brain Science and Brain Medicine is underlined.




This paper examines whether correlations between speech perception and speech production exist, and, if so, whether they might provide a way of evaluating different acoustic metrics. The cues listeners use for many phonemic distinctions are not known, often because many different acoustic cues are highly correlated with one another, making it difficult to distinguish among them. Perception-production correlations may provide a new means of doing so. In the present paper, correlations were examined between acoustic measures taken on listeners' perceptual prototypes for a given speech category and on their average production of members of that category. Significant correlations were found for VOT among stop consonants, and for spectral peaks (but not centroids or skewness) for voiceless fricatives. These results suggest that correlations between speech perception and production may provide a methodology for evaluating different proposed acoustic metrics.


One of the most fascinating fields that have emanated in the past few decades is developmental biology. This is not only the case from a research point of view but also from the angle of clinical care and treatment strategies. It is now well demonstrated that there are many diseases (some believe all diseases) that have their roots in embryogenesis or in early life, where nature and environment often team up to facilitate the genesis of disease. There is probably no better example to illustrate the interactions between nature and environment than in early life, as early as in the first several cell cycles. As will be apparent in this review, the cell cycle is a very regulated activity and this regulation is genetic in nature, with checkpoint proteins playing an important role in controlling the timing, the size, and the growth of daughter cells. However, it is also very clear, as will be discussed in this work, that the microenvironment of the first dividing cells is so important for the outcome of the organism. In this review, we will focus on the effect of one stress, that of hypoxia, on the young embryo and its cell division and growth. We will first review some of the cell cycle definitions and stages and then review briefly our current knowledge and its gaps in this area.
Calpain 3/p94, the skeletal muscle-specific isoform of the calpain large subunit family, is a protein product of the gene responsible for limb-girdle muscular dystrophy type 2A (LGMD2A). Through yeast two-hybrid experiments, calpain 3 has been shown to bind to titin in myofibrils [Sorimachi et al. (1995) J. Biol. Chem. 270, 31158-31162]. However, because of extensive autolysis activity, calpain 3 localization in skeletal muscle has been undefined. In this study, we generated a polyclonal antibody against an N-terminal 98-amino-acid calpain 3 fragment, which is not homologous to the corresponding regions of other conventional calpains. This antibody stained myofibrils with a unique repeated doublet-pattern. Confocal microscopic observation with marker antibodies confirmed that calpain 3 is localized in the N2 region of myofibrils. Furthermore, using this antibody, we examined the localization of calpain 3 in LGMD2A muscles.
We evaluated the distribution of nitric oxide synthase (NOS) isoforms in the rostral ventrolateral medulla (RVLM), the medullary origin of sympathetic neurogenic vasomotor tone, and the contribution of NOS III to the cardiovascular actions of endogenous NO in the RVLM. Adult Sprague-Dawley rats were used. Reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction or Western blot analysis revealed that NOS I, II or III was expressed in the ventrolateral medulla at the mRNA or protein level under basal conditions. However, laser scanning confocal microscopic analysis of double-immunofluorescence images showed that whereas NOS I or II immunoreactivity colocalized with cells within the confines of the RVLM that stained positively with the neuronal marker, NeuN, NOS III immunoreactivity was associated primarily with blood vessels. Furthermore, bilateral microinjection into the RVLM of the selective NOS III inhibitor, N(5)-(1-iminoethyl)-L-ornithine, elicited minimal alterations in baseline systemic arterial pressure, heart rate or sympathetic vasomotor outflow in rats anesthetized with propofol. We conclude that whereas NOS I and II are present in neurons within the confines of the RVLM, NOS III is associated primarily with blood vessels. Our results further indicate that NOS III does not appear to contribute to the maintenance of basal sympathetic vasomotor outflows and arterial pressure by the endogenous NO at the RVLM.
Two forms of GnRH (GnRH-I and GnRH-II) are expressed in the hypothalamus of humans and rhesus monkeys, but their relative abilities to stimulate LH and FSH release are unknown. Therefore, young (8-12 yr) and old (21-23 yr) female rhesus monkeys were treated i.v. with bolus injections of either GnRH-I or GnRH-II (dose range, 0.01-10 microg/kg body weight); serial blood samples were remotely collected through a vascular catheter for up to 2 h after injection. Overall, plasma LH concentrations were similarly elevated after treatment with GnRH-I and GnRH-II, and the responses were slightly greater in the younger animals. Although plasma FSH concentrations were unaffected by a single exposure to GnRH-I or GnRH-II, they showed a similar significant increase after repeated exposures (every 2 h for 24 h). In a subsequent experiment, antide, a GnRH-I receptor antagonist, was administered (100 microg/kg body weight) together with a single injection of GnRH-I or GnRH-II (1 microg/kg body weight). As expected, GnRH-I-induced LH release was significantly attenuated by this combined treatment; moreover, GnRH-II-induced LH release was completely blocked. Taken together, these data show that GnRH-II can potently stimulate gonadotropin release in vivo and that this action is likely mediated through the GnRH-I receptor.


The degu (Octodon degus) is a diurnal rodent, native to Chile. Basic features of vision and visual organization in this species were examined in a series of anatomical, electrophysiological and behavioral experiments. The lens of the degu eye selectively absorbs short-wavelength light and shows a progressive increase in optical density as a function of age. Electroretinograms recorded using a flicker-photometric procedure reveal three spectral mechanisms: a rod with peak sensitivity of about 500 nm and two types of cone having respective spectral peaks of about 362 nm and 507 nm. Opsin antibody labeling was used to determine the retinal distributions of the three receptor types. A total of about one-third of the approximately 9 million photoreceptors of the degu retina are cones with the two types (507 nm/362 nm) represented in a ratio of about 13:1. The contributions to vision of all three receptor types were examined in a series of behavioral experiments. A consistent feature of both the electrophysiological and behavioral results is that relatively high levels of light adaptation are required to effect the full transition from rod-based to cone-based vision. In behavioral tests degus were shown to be able to make color discriminations between ultraviolet and visible lights.
At the transition from early reptilian ancestors to primordial mammals, the areas of sensory cortex that process topographic modalities acquire the laminar structure of isocortex. A prominent step in lamination is granulation, whereby the formerly unique principal layer of pyramidal cells is split by the insertion of a new layer of excitatory, but intrinsic, granule cells, layer IV. I consider the hypothesis that granulation, and the differentiation between supra- and infra-granular pyramidal layers, may be advantageous to support fine topography in their sensory maps. Fine topography implies a generic distinction between &quot;where&quot; information, explicitly mapped on the cortical sheet, and &quot;what&quot; information, represented in a distributed fashion as a distinct firing pattern across neurons. These patterns can be stored on recurrent collaterals in the cortex, and such memory can help substantially in the analysis of current sensory input. The simulation of a simplified network model demonstrates that a non-laminated patch of cortex must compromise between transmitting &quot;where&quot; information or retrieving &quot;what&quot; information. The simulation of a modified model including differentiation of a granular layer shows a modest but significant quantitative advantage, expressed as a less severe trade-off between &quot;what&quot; and &quot;where&quot;. The further connectivity differentiation between infra-granular and supra-granular pyramidal layers is shown to match the mix of &quot;what&quot; and &quot;where&quot; information optimal for their respective target structures.
Do cortical neurons operate as integrators or as coincidence detectors? Despite the importance of this question, no definite answer has been given yet, because each of these two views can find its own experimental support. Here we investigated this question using models of morphologically-reconstructed neocortical pyramidal neurons under in vivo like conditions. In agreement with experiments we find that the cell is capable of operating in a continuum between coincidence detection and temporal integration, depending on the characteristics of the synaptic inputs. Moreover, the presence of synaptic background activity at a level comparable to intracellular measurements in vivo can modulate the operating mode of the cell, and act as a switch between temporal integration and coincidence detection. These results suggest that background activity can be viewed as an important determinant of the integrative mode of pyramidal neurons. Thus, background activity not only sharpens cortical responses but it can also be used to tune an entire network between integration and coincidence detection modes.
Aerial respiratory behaviour in the pond snail, Lymnaea stagnalis, can be operantly conditioned. This associative learning then undergoes consolidation into a long-lasting memory which, depending on the training procedure used, causes intermediate-term memory (ITM; lasting 3 h) or long-term memory (LTM; lasting &gt;6 h) to be formed. We determined the differential susceptibility of these two forms of memory to translation and transcription blockers. The injection of a translation blocker, Anisomycin, 2.5 h before training prevents the establishment of both ITM and LTM. On the other hand, injection of the transcription blocker Actinomycin D, 2.5 h before training, did not prevent the establishment of ITM, but did, however, prevent LTM formation. Thus in Lymnaea, following associative learning, both ITM and LTM are dependent on new protein synthesis. ITM appears to be dependent on protein synthesis from preexisting transcription factors, whilst LTM is dependent on protein synthesis from new transcription messages.
A. Caramazza, A. Costa, M. Miozzo, and Y. Bi (2001) reported a series of experiments demonstrating that the ease of producing a word depends only on the frequency of that specific word but not on the frequency of a homophone twin. A. Caramazza, A. Costa, et al. concluded that homophones have separate word form presentations and that the absence of frequency-inheritance effects for homophones undermines an important argument in support of 2-stage models of lexical access, which assume that syntactic (lemma) representations mediate between conceptual and phonological representations. The authors of this article evaluate the empirical basis of this conclusion, report 2 experiments demonstrating a frequency-inheritance effect, and discuss other recent evidence. It is concluded that homophones share a common word form and that the distinction between lemmas and word forms should be upheld.
Two experiments examined the temporal course of pre- and postretrieval mechanisms using a new kind of dynamic metacognitive judgment. Experiment 1 presented participants with primed and unprimed triples of remote associates to a target word and required them to provide repeated metacognitive judgments, 4 times during a 12-s interval, about the likelihood that they would later recognize the target. Both familiarity with the words and the processing time were associated with changes in metacognitive evaluations. Experiment 2 placed pre- and postretrieval mechanisms in opposition by transforming an element of a previously primed question. For transformed questions this led to high initial ratings, which decreased over time, while for novel questions the ratings were initially lower and increased with time. The results are discussed in terms of pre- and postretrieval mechanisms interacting over time.
Multiple sclerosis (MS) is considered to be an autoimmune disease mediated by T cells reactive with Ags in the CNS. Therefore, it has been postulated that neuroantigen-reactive T cells bearing particular types of TCRs are expanded clonally during the course of the disease. However, there is a controversy with regard to the TCR usage by T cells associated with the development of MS. By the use of complementarity-determining region 3 spectratyping analysis that is shown to be a useful tool for identification of pathogenic TCR in autoimmune disease models, we tried to demonstrate that spectratype was T cells bearing particular types of TCR are activated in MS patients. Consequently, it was found that Vbeta5.2 were often oligoclonally expanded in peripheral blood of MS patients, but not of healthy subjects. Sequence analysis of the complementarity-determining region 3 region of spectratype-derived TCR clones revealed that the predominant TCR clone was different from patient to patient, but that similar results were obtained in a patient examined at different time points. More importantly, examination of cerebrospinal fluid T cells and longitudinal studies of PBLs from selected patients revealed that Vbeta5.2 expansion was detectable in the majority of patients examined. These findings suggest that Vbeta5.2 spectratype expansion is associated with the development of MS and that TCR-based immunotherapy can be applicable to MS patients if the TCR activation pattern of each patient is determined at different stages of the disease.
Myelomeningocele is a common developmental malformation of the central nervous system that usually results in motor deficits. Previous studies of myelomeningocele have not examined motor adaptation, which involves changes in the control of movements that occur as a result of repeated task exposure but do not depend on conscious recall of the exposure. We studied motor adaptation in 17 children with myelomeningocele and shunted hydrocephalus, 19 children with attention deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD), and 20 healthy siblings. All children were 8 to 15 years of age. They were administered 2 measures of motor adaptation known to be sensitive to subcortical abnormalities in adult neurological disorders. One task assessed the biasing in weight judgments that occurs after exposure to heavy versus light weights, and the other assessed the adaptation in reaching movements that occurs when vision is laterally displaced by prisms. Contrary to expectations, the groups did not differ in motor adaptation. Children in all 3 groups displayed significant biasing in their weight judgments and improvement in the accuracy of pointing during prism adaptation trials. Performance on the 2 motor adaptation tasks was not related to age or IQ. Weight biasing was positively related to a measure of response disinhibition. The findings suggest that myelomeningocele does not result in global impairment of motor skills, but instead in a profile of intact and impaired motor functions that potentially may be decomposed in accordance with the neuroscience of motor skills.
The recruitment of lymphocytes across the blood brain barrier (BBB) is mediated by adhesion molecules and chemokines. The expression of activation markers and of chemokine receptors on T cells homing to the nervous system (NS) may help define their functional state. In the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) of subjects with inflammatory neurological diseases (IND), including multiple sclerosis, we observed an increased number of T cells coexpressing CXCR3 and CCR5 as well as T cells with a CD45RO+ CCR7+ CD27+ memory phenotype. A subset of CCR7+ T cells coexpressed CXCR3 and CCR5. We also detected an increased number of interferon-gamma-producing T cells in the CSF compared with peripheral blood, mostly but not exclusively in the CD45RO+ CCR7- CD27- compartment. T helper 1 (Th1) clones, established from the CSF of individuals with IND and from a healthy subject, similarly migrated to CXCL10, CXCL12, and CCL5. CXCL10, CXCL12, and CCL19 were increased in the CSF of individuals with neuroinflammation. These findings suggest that CSF is enriched in Th1-polarized memory T cells capable of differentiating into effector cells upon antigen encounter. These cells are recruited into the CSF by inducible chemokines. Thus, CSF represents a transitional station for T cells trafficking to and from the NS.
The samurai chemist Jokichi Takamine (1854-1922) crystallized adrenalin, the first hormone to be isolated in the twentieth century, from the adrenal medulla, in the summer of 1900. This paper reviews Takamine's route to the discovery of adrenalin and presents historical photographs and documents collected in Kanazawa, Japan, where he grew up, and the United States, where he made his major discoveries.

Outcome of infection varies greatly among people, and in the case of three very different viruses, it is determined by apolipoprotein E (APOE) genotype. APOE might affect outcome of malaria infection also, since apoE protein and the protozoon (like the viruses) share cell entry mediators (heparan sulphate proteoglycans and/or specific apoE receptors). APOE polymorphisms give rise to protein variants that differ in binding strength to these mediators; thus, the extent of competition between apoE and protozoon for cell entry, and hence magnitude of protozoan damage, might depend on apoE isoform. Genotypes of infants infected with malaria were examined. It was found that APOE epsilon 2 homozygotes became infected at an earlier age than those carrying the other genotypes, the difference being statistically significant. Parasite densities, all of which were low, did not differ significantly. This effect, although based on small numbers, suggests that APOE epsilon 2 may be a risk factor for early infection.
Male zebra finches sing and females normally do not. This sexually dimorphic behavior is mediated by a sexually dimorphic series of interconnected nuclei that are larger and more developed in males. Estradiol administered to females as early as the day of hatching (P1) causes profound masculinization of this song system. The exact timing of estrogen action is unknown, and there is little information concerning the times and sites of expression of estrogen receptors and aromatase before P5. We measured the expression of mRNAs encoding these proteins in brain during late embryogenesis and on P1 to determine if estrogen synthesis or receptor-mediated actions on the song system, as part of the program of sexual differentiation, might be possible during this period. Using highly sensitive and specific in situ hybridization procedures for mRNAs encoding ERalpha, ERbeta, and aromatase, we detected mRNA for ERs in archistriatal regions as early as embryonic stage 34, and in diencephalic regions as early as embryonic stage 30. ERalpha mRNA was also detected in the dorsal mesencephalon at P1. Aromatase mRNA expression was present as early as embryonic stage 30 in diencephalic and mesencephalic regions. No obvious sex differences in the spatio-temporal pattern of mRNA expression were detected. Our results suggest that estrogen can influence cell growth and differentiation in zebra finch brain well before hatching and into posthatching life. The results fail to provide support for the hypothesis that sexual differentiation of the song system is mediated by sex differences in the expression of these mRNAs at these ages.

Chronic cocaine use in humans and animal models is known to lead to pronounced alterations in neuronal function in brain regions associated with drug reinforcement. To evaluate whether the alterations in gene expression in cocaine overdose victims are associated with specific dopamine populations in the midbrain, cDNA arrays and western blotting were used to compare gene and protein expression patterns between cocaine overdose victims and age-matched controls in the ventral tegmental area (VTA) and lateral substantia nigra (l-SN). Array analysis revealed significant up-regulation of numerous transcripts in the VTA, but not in the l-SN, of cocaine overdose victims including NMDAR1, GluR2, GluR5 and KA2 receptor mRNA (p &lt; 0.05). No significant alterations between overdose victims and controls were observed for GluR1, R3 or R4 mRNA levels. Correspondingly, western blot analysis revealed VTA-selective up-regulation of CREB (p &lt; 0.01), NMDAR1 (p &lt; 0.01), GluR2 (p &lt; 0.05), GluR5 (p &lt; 0.01) and KA2 (p &lt; 0.05) protein levels of cocaine overdose victims. The present results indicate that selective alterations of CREB and certain ionotropic glutamate receptor (iGluR) subtypes appear to be associated with chronic cocaine use in humans in a region-specific manner. Moreover, as subunit composition determines the functional properties of iGluRs, the observed changes may indicate alterations in the excitability of dopamine transmission underlying long-term biochemical and behavioral effects of cocaine in humans.
The vesicular monoamine transporter 2 (VMAT2) plays a pivotal role in regulating the size of vesicular and cytosolic dopamine (DA) storage pools within the CNS, and can thus influence extracellular DA neurotransmission. Transgenic mice have been generated with a dramatically reduced (by approximately 95%) expression of the VMAT2 gene which, unlike complete knockout lines, survive into adulthood. We compared the pre-synaptic regulation of both impulse-dependent (exocytotic) and carrier-mediated (via reversal of the DA transporter, DAT) DA release in the dorsolateral caudate putamen (CPu) of striatal slices derived from adult homozygous VMAT2 mutant and wild-type mice using fast cyclic voltammetry. Impulse-dependent DA release, evoked by a single electrical pulse, was lower in homozygous (116 nm) than wild-type mice (351 nm) indicating smaller vesicular DA stores, an observation supported by the evanescent effect of amfonelic acid (300 nm) in homozygous mice. Amphetamine (2 microm) increased extracellular DA via DAT reversal in both wild-type (by 459 nm) and VMAT2 mutant (by 168 nm, p &lt; 0.01 vs. wild-type) mice. In both cases, the effect was blocked by the DAT inhibitor GBR12935 (1 microm). Simultaneously, amphetamine decreased impulse-dependent DA release, albeit less in homozygous (by 55%) than in wild-type (by 78%) mice. In wild-types, this decrement was largely reversed by GBR12935 but not by the D2/D3 autoreceptor antagonist (-)sulpiride (1 microm). Conversely, in homozygous VMAT2 mutant mice, it was attenuated by (-)sulpiride but not GBR12935. The D2/D3 receptor agonist quinpirole inhibited impulse-dependent DA release with a lower EC50 value in homozygous mice (12 nm) compared with wild-types (34 nm), indicating the compensatory presence of functionally supersensitive release-regulating autoreceptors. However, analysis of DA reuptake kinetics obtained in the absence and presence of DAT blockade (by cocaine and amfonelic acid) revealed only minor differences in DAT functionality. These results demonstrate that impaired vesicular DA storage constrains extracellular DA levels in the dorsolateral CPu whether induced by either impulse-dependent or carrier-mediated mechanisms and that the relative importance of the DAT and terminal autoreceptors as control mechanisms in the actions of amphetamine are reversed in VMAT2 mutant mice.
In this work, we investigated the role of nitric oxide (NO) in neurotoxicity triggered by alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methylisoxazole-4-propionate (AMPA) receptor activation in cultured hippocampal neurons. In the presence of cyclothiazide (CTZ), short-term exposures to kainate (KA; 5 and 15 min, followed by 24-h recovery) decreased cell viability. Both NBQX and d-AP-5 decreased the neurotoxicity caused by KA plus CTZ. Long-term exposures to KA plus CTZ (24 h) resulted in increased toxicity. In short-, but not in long-term exposures, the presence of NO synthase (NOS) inhibitors (l-NAME and 7-NI) decreased the toxicity induced by KA plus CTZ. We also found that KA plus CTZ (15-min exposure) significantly increased cGMP levels. Furthermore, short-term exposures lead to decreased intracellular ATP levels, which was prevented by NBQX, d-AP-5 and NOS inhibitors. Immunoblot analysis revealed that KA induced neuronal NOS (nNOS) proteolysis, gradually lowering the levels of nNOS according to the time of exposure. Calpain, but not caspase-3 inhibitors, prevented this effect. Overall, these results show that NO is involved in the neurotoxicity caused by activation of non-desensitizing AMPA receptors, although to a limited extent, since AMPA receptor activation triggers mechanisms that lead to nNOS proteolysis by calpains, preventing a further contribution of NO to the neurotoxic process.
Vacuolar changes in primary sensory neurons have been described in the context of disease and injury. In this work we examine microvacuolation of rat dorsal root ganglion (primary sensory) neurons. This change, attributed to swelling of mitochondria, had a direct relationship with the duration of the post mortem interval prior to harvesting. Similar microvacuolation, but also the presence of subplasmalemmal scalloping was prominent in dorsal root ganglion samples from patients without known peripheral disease undergoing post mortem examination. Both types of vacuolar change differ from &quot;signet ring&quot; vacuolation linked to neuron injury or disease. We suggest that care is required in evaluating vacuolar changes in primary sensory neurons. Microvacuolation is probably not a feature of sensory neuron disease.
Pharmacological approaches and optical recordings have shown that Schwann cells of a myelinating phenotype are activated by 5-HT upon its interaction with the 5-HT(2A) receptor (5-HT(2A)R). In order to further characterize the expression and distribution of this receptor in Schwann cells, we examined rat sciatic nerve and cultured rat Schwann cells using probes specific to 5-HT(2A)R protein mRNA. We also examined the endogenous sources of 5-HT in rat sciatic nerve by employing both histochemical stains and an antibody that specifically recognizes 5-HT. Rat Schwann cells of a myelinating phenotype contained both 5-HT(2A)R protein and mRNA. In the healthy adult rat sciatic nerve, 5-HT(2A)Rs were evenly distributed along the outermost portion of the Schwann cell plasma membrane and within the cytoplasm. The most prominent source of 5-HT was within granules of the endoneurial mast cells, closely juxtaposed to Schwann cells within myelinating sciatic nerves. These results support the hypothesis that the 5-HT receptors expressed by rat Schwann cells in vivo are activated by the release of 5-HT from neighboring mast cells.
Corticotropin-releasing hormone (CRH) is a 41 amino acid neuropeptide which plays an important role in the stress response in the hypothalamus. We describe the development of an immortalized hypothalamic cell line which expresses CRH. We hypothesized that this cell line would possess the relevant characteristics of parvocellular CRH-expressing neurones such as glucocorticoid receptor (GR) expression and vasopressin (VP) coexpression. For production of hypothalamic cells, embryonic day 19 rat pup hypothalami were dissected and dissociated into tissue culture dishes. They were immortalized by retrovirus-mediated transfer of the SV40 large T antigen gene at 3 days of culture and then screened for expression of CRH following dilution cloning. One cell line was chosen (IVB) which exhibited CRH-like immunoreactivity (CRH-LI) and expressed CRH, VP and CRH1 receptor RNA via the reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction. In addition, the cell line expressed the neuronal marker, microtubule-associated protein-2. We verified that the CRH-LI from IVB cell lysates coeluted with CRH standard via reversed-phase high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC). Furthermore, oxidation of the lysate converted its HPLC profile to that identical with oxidized CRH standard. In addition, IVB cells exhibited high affinity binding to CRH. Incubation of IVB cells with CRH lead to increases in cAMP levels and protein kinase A activity in a concentration-dependent manner. Incubation of IVB cells with CRH also resulted in increases in phospho-cyclic-AMP response element binding protein (CREB) immunostaining as detected by immunocytochemical analysis. Finally, CRH treatment of IVB cell lines has been linked to CREB-mediated gene expression as determined via the PathDetect CREB trans-reporting system. The characteristics of IVB cells, such as CRH and VP coexpression, GR expression and a biologically active CRH-R1-mediated signalling pathway, suggest that this neuronal cell line may serve as model of parvocellular CRH neurones.


Although genomic screening studies have identified several genes associated with Parkinson's disease (PD), there is evidence that environmental factors are also involved in the pathogenesis of the disease and that hydrocarbon-solvents may be one of them. The genetic component is less evident in late-onset PD. To assess whether age and PD may affect the catabolism of the hydrocarbon n-hexane, a two-part study was performed. In the first part the urinary levels of its main metabolites, 2,5-hexanedione and 2,5-dimethylpyrroles, were measured in 108 patients and 108 healthy controls, matched by age and sex. Metabolite urinary excretion was significantly reduced in PD patients as compared with controls and was inversely related to age in both groups. In the second part the same comparison was made between 24 non-smoking and 10 smoking patients, matched to controls, after smoking of a hydrocarbon-rich cigarette. In these subjects also n-hexane and 2,5-hexanedione blood levels were measured. There was no appreciable difference in n-hexane blood levels between patients and controls in non-smokers, whereas there was a significant increase in patients over controls in smokers (p &lt; 0.01). 2,5-hexanedione blood levels were significantly lower in patients than in healthy controls, both in non-smokers and in smokers, but the reduction was more pronounced in smokers (-46.3 % versus -10.7 %). The same was true for 2,5-hexanedione and 2,5-dimethylpyrrole urinary levels. This study suggests that aging and PD may be associated with a reduction in the capacity to eliminate the hydrocarbon n-hexane. This metabolic alteration may play a role in the pathogenesis of PD.



Delayed structural cerebral sequelae has been reported following cranial radiation therapy (CRT) to children with primary brain tumors, but little is known about potential functional changes. Twenty-four patients were included, diagnosed and treated at a median age of 11 years, and examined after a median recurrence free survival of 16 years by MRI and Positron Emission Tomography using the glucose analog 2-18F-fluoro-2-deoxy-D-glucose (18FDG). Three patients were not analyzed further due to diffuse cerebral atrophy, which might be related to previous hydrocephalus. Twenty-one patients were evaluable and regional cerebral metabolic rate for glucose (rCMRglc) was estimated in nontumoral brain regions in 12 patients treated with surgery alone and 9 patients treated with both surgery and CRT. Furthermore 10 normal controls matched for age at examination were included. Patients treated with both surgery and CRT had a general decreased rCMRglc compared to normal controls and patients treated with surgery alone, significantly (p &lt; 0.05) in 5 of 11 regions of interest. No difference was found in rCMRglc between normal controls and patients treated with surgery alone. We conclude that there is a general reduction in rCMRglc in long-term recurrence free survivors of childhood primary brain tumors treated with CRT in high doses (44-56 Gy).
As little consensus exists on the postoperative care of patients undergoing stereotactic biopsy, we sought to establish a new algorithm for their postoperative management. First, we surveyed active members of the AANS/CNS Section on Tumors to determine national practice patterns for patients after stereotactic biopsy. Second, we retrospectively reviewed 84 consecutive stereotactic biopsy procedures at our institution to assess the potential benefit of routine computed tomography (CT) scanning and intensive care unit (ICU) monitoring. Finally, we prospectively applied this new algorithm in 54 patients to assess its validity. Of 629 surgeons, 263 (42%) responded; they were experienced neurosurgeons (mean 15 years in practice) who performed more than 10 stereotactic biopsies per year. Most surgeons (59%) routinely ordered postoperative CT scans, and the remainder ordered scans based on specific indications. Patients were transferred from the recovery room to a special care unit (47%), regular room (47%), or home (6%). In our retrospective review, 81 patients underwent 84 stereotactic biopsy procedures; 79 underwent postoperative CT scanning and all 81 were monitored overnight in the ICU. Among five (6%) patients who experienced intraoperative hemorrhage, two (2%) underwent craniotomy to control arterial bleeding. Three (4%) patients developed new neurological deficits, which occurred within 2 h of surgery. In both groups, CT scans were helpful in excluding hemorrhage that would require re-operation. In the remaining patients (90%), findings on routine postoperative CT did not alter patient management and ICU monitoring appeared unnecessary because neurological complications occurred within 2 h postoperatively. We confirmed these results in the prospective study of 54 patients undergoing stereotactic biopsy without routine postoperative CT scanning or ICU monitoring. In contrast with national practice patterns reported, we recommend that CT scanning and ICU monitoring be reserved for patients who have intraoperative hemorrhage or new deficits after surgery. All other patients can be monitored for 2 h in the recovery room and transferred to a regular hospital room without a postoperative CT scan.
Experimental mouse models are emerging as useful systems for the study of human brain tumors. Nuclear magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) methods can noninvasively provide images of complex heterogeneous tissues such as experimental brain tumors. The current report demonstrates the feasibility of longitudinal high-resolution MRI in two mouse brain tumor models: patched heterozygous (ptc +/-) mice with spontaneously arising posterior fossa tumors that resemble human medulloblastoma, and homozygous nude mice implanted with intracerebral xenografts of human medulloblastoma cell lines. Methods were optimized to achieve favorable volumetric comparison with histologic methods and sub-millimeter resolution, improved by contrast enhancement with intravenous administration of a gadolinium-based agent. Results also show that experimental mice, even symptomatic mice, tolerate repeated serial imaging studies over weeks to months to follow tumor progression and to visualize placement of an intracerebral drug delivery system.
Previous reports suggest that age-related lysosomal disturbances contribute to Alzheimer-type accumulations of protein species, blockage of axonal/dendritic transport, and synaptic decline. Here, we tested the hypothesis that lysosomal enzymes are upregulated as a compensatory response to pathogenic protein accumulation. In the hippocampal slice model, tau deposits and amyloidogenic fragments induced by the lysosomal inhibitor chloroquine were accompanied by disrupted microtubule integrity and by corresponding declines in postsynaptic glutamate receptors and the presynaptic marker synaptophysin. In the same slices, cathepsins B, D, and L, beta-glucuronidase, and elastase were upregulated by 70% to 135%. To address whether this selective activation of the lysosomal system represents compensatory signaling, N-Cbz-L-phenylalanyl-L-alanyl-diazomethylketone (PADK) was used to enhance the lysosome response, generating 4- to 8-fold increases in lysosomal enzymes. PADK-mediated lysosomal modulation was stable for weeks while synaptic components remained normal. When PADK and chloroquine were co-infused, chloroquine no longer increased cellular tau levels. To assess pre-existing pathology, chloroquine was applied for 6 days after which its removal resulted in continued degeneration. In contrast, enhancing lysosomal activation by replacing chloroquine after 6 days with PADK led to clearance of accumulated protein species and restored microtubule integrity. Transport processes lost during chloroquine exposure were consequently re-established, resulting in marked recovery of synaptic components. These data indicate that compensatory activation of lysosomes follows protein accumulation events, and that lysosomal modulation represents a novel approach for treating Alzheimer disease and other protein deposition diseases.
Previous studies have reported that the translational vestibuloocular reflex (TVOR) follows a three-dimensional (3D) kinematic behavior that is more similar to visually guided eye movements, like pursuit, rather than the rotational VOR (RVOR). Accordingly, TVOR rotation axes tilted with eye position toward an eye-fixed reference frame rather than staying relatively fixed in the head like in the RVOR. This difference arises because, contrary to the RVOR where peripheral image stability is functionally important, the TVOR like pursuit and saccades cares to stabilize images on the fovea. During most natural head and body movements, both VORs are simultaneously activated. In the present study, we have investigated in rhesus monkeys the 3D kinematics of the combined VOR during yaw rotation about eccentric axes. The experiments were motivated by and quantitatively compared with the predictions of two distinct hypotheses. According to the first (fixed-rule) hypothesis, an eye-position-dependent torsion is computed downstream of a site for RVOR/TVOR convergence, and the combined VOR axis would tilt through an angle that is proportional to gaze angle and independent of the relative RVOR/TVOR contributions to the total eye movement. This hypothesis would be consistent with the recently postulated mechanical constraints imposed by extraocular muscle pulleys. According to the second (image-stabilization) hypothesis, an eye-position-dependent torsion is computed separately for the RVOR and the TVOR components, implying a processing that takes place upstream of a site for RVOR/TVOR convergence. The latter hypothesis is based on the functional requirement that the 3D kinematics of the combined VOR should be governed by the need to keep images stable on the fovea with slip on the peripheral retina being dependent on the different functional goals of the two VORs. In contrast to the fixed-rule hypothesis, the data demonstrated a variable eye-position-dependent torsion for the combined VOR that was different for synergistic versus antagonistic RVOR/TVOR interactions. Furthermore, not only were the eye-velocity tilt slopes of the combined VOR as much as 10 times larger than what would be expected based on extraocular muscle pulley location, but also eye velocity during antagonistic RVOR/TVOR combinations often tilted opposite to gaze. These results are qualitatively and quantitatively consistent with the image-stabilization hypothesis, suggesting that the eye-position-dependent torsion is computed separately for the RVOR and the TVOR and that the 3D kinematics of the combined VOR are dependent on functional rather than mechanical constraints.
Odor perception depends on a constellation of molecular, cellular, and network interactions in olfactory brain areas. Recently, there has been better understanding of the cellular and molecular mechanisms underlying the odor responses of neurons in the olfactory epithelium, the first-order olfactory area. In higher order sensory areas, synchronized activity in networks of neurons is known to be a prominent feature of odor processing. The perception and discrimination of odorants is associated with fast (20-70 Hz) electroencephalographic oscillations. The cellular mechanisms underlying these fast network oscillations have not been defined. In this study, we show that synchronous fast oscillations can be evoked by brief electrical stimulation in the rat olfactory bulb in vitro, partially mimicking the natural response of this brain region to sensory input. Stimulation induces periodic inhibitory synaptic potentials in mitral cells and prolonged spiking in GABAergic granule cells. Repeated stimulation leads to the persistent enhancement in both granule cell activity and mitral cell inhibition. Prominent oscillations in field recordings indicate that stimulation induces high-frequency activity throughout networks of olfactory bulb neurons. Network synchronization results from chemical and electrical synaptic interactions since both glutamate-receptor antagonists and gap junction inhibitors block oscillatory intracellular and field responses. Our results demonstrate that the olfactory bulb can generate fast oscillations autonomously through the persistent activation of networks of inhibitory interneurons. These local circuit interactions may be critically involved in odor processing in vivo.
Information in a spike train is limited by variability in the spike timing. This variability is caused by noise from several sources including synapses and membrane channels; but how deleterious each noise source is and how they affect spike train coding is unknown. Combining physiology and a multicompartment model, we studied the effect of synaptic input noise and voltage-gated channel noise on spike train reliability for a mammalian ganglion cell. For tonic stimuli, the SD of the interspike intervals increased supralinearly with increasing interspike interval. When the cell was driven by current injection, voltage-gated channel noise and background synaptic noise caused fluctuations in the interspike interval of comparable amplitude. Spikes initiated on the dendrites could cause additional spike timing fluctuations. For transient stimuli, synaptic noise was dominant and spontaneous background activity strongly increased fluctuations in spike timing but decreased the latency of the first spike.
A postural control system in the lamprey is driven by vestibular input and maintains a definite orientation of the animal during swimming. After a unilateral labyrinthectomy (UL), the lamprey continuously rolls toward the damaged side. Important elements of the postural network are the reticulospinal (RS) neurons that are driven by vestibular input and transmit commands for postural corrections to the spinal cord. We characterized the effect of UL on vestibular responses in RS neurons elicited by rotation of the animal in the pitch plane. The activity of RS neurons was recorded from their axons in the spinal cord before and after UL. The neurons can be classified into the Up and Down groups activated preferentially with nose-up or nose-down rotation, respectively. After UL, vestibular responses in the group Up changed only slightly on the damaged side and disappeared almost completely on the opposite side. In the group Down, responses on both sides persisted after UL. These results indicate that the left and right subgroups of the group Up neurons receive excitatory input mainly from the contralateral labyrinth. In contrast, the group Down neurons receive excitatory input from both labyrinths. We conclude that the UL-induced changes in vestibular responses to pitch tilt will disturb the normal activity of the postural control system. The UL-induced asymmetry in the bilateral activity of the group Up neurons seems to be an important factor contributing to the loss of equilibrium in UL animals and to their rotation during swimming.
The involvement of neuronal protein synthetic machinery and extrinsic trophic factors during synapse formation is poorly understood. Here we determine the roles of these processes by reconstructing synapses between the axons severed from identified Lymnaea neurons in cell culture, either in the presence or absence of trophic factors. We demonstrate that, although synapses are maintained between isolated pre- and postsynaptic axons for several days, the presynaptic, but not the postsynaptic, cell body, however, is required for new synapse formation between soma-axon pairs. The formation of cholinergic synapses between presynaptic soma and postsynaptic axon requires gene transcription and protein synthesis solely in the presynaptic neuron. We show that this synaptogenesis is contingent on extrinsic trophic factors present in brain conditioned medium (CM). The CM-induced excitatory synapse formation is mediated through receptor tyrosine kinases. We further demonstrate that, although the postsynaptic axon does not require new protein synthesis for synapse formation, its contact with the presynaptic cell in CM, but not in defined medium (no trophic factors), differentially alters its responsiveness to exogenously applied acetylcholine at synaptic compared with extrasynaptic sites. Together, these data suggest a synergetic action of cell-cell signaling and trophic factors to bring about specific changes in both pre- and postsynaptic neurons during synapse formation.
The present study identifies the mechanics of planar reaching movements performed by monkeys (Macaca mulatta) wearing a robotic exoskeleton. This device maintained the limb in the horizontal plane such that hand motion was generated only by flexor and extensor motions at the shoulder and elbow. The study describes the kinematic and kinetic features of the shoulder, elbow, and hand during reaching movements from a central target to peripheral targets located on the circumference of a circle: the center-out task. While subjects made reaching movements with relatively straight smooth hand paths and little variation in peak hand velocity, there were large variations in joint motion, torque, and power for movements in different spatial directions. Unlike single-joint movements, joint kinematics and kinetics were not tightly coupled for these multijoint movements. For most movements, power generation was predominantly generated at only one of the two joints. The present analysis illustrates the complexities inherent in multijoint movements and forms the basis for understanding strategies used by the motor system to control reaching movements and for interpreting the response of neurons in different brain regions during this task.
We measured the contrast threshold for mammalian brisk-transient ganglion cells in vitro. Spikes were recorded extracellularly in the intact retina (guinea pig) in response to a spot with sharp onset, flashed for 100 ms over the receptive field center. Probability density functions were constructed from spike responses to stimulus contrasts that bracketed threshold. Then an &quot;ideal observer&quot; (IO) compared additional trials to these probability distributions and decided, using a single-interval, two-alternative forced-choice procedure, which contrasts had most likely been presented. From these decisions we constructed neurometric functions that yielded the threshold contrast by linear interpolation. Based on the number of spikes in a response, the IO detected contrasts as low as 1% [4.2 +/- 0.4% (SE); n = 35]; based on the temporal pattern of spikes, the IO detected contrasts as low as 0.8% (2.8 +/- 0.2%). Contrast increments above a very low &quot;basal contrast&quot; were discriminated with greater sensitivity than they were detected against the background. Performance was optimal near 37 degrees C and declined with a Q(10) of about 2, similar to that of retinal metabolism. By the method used by previous in vivo studies of brisk-transient cells, our most sensitive cells had similar thresholds. The in vitro measurements thus provide an important benchmark for comparing sensitivity of neurons upstream (cone and bipolar cell) and downstream to assess efficiency of retinal and central circuits.
Constitutive activation of Galphas in the Drosophila brain abolishes associative learning, a behavioral disruption far worse than that observed in any single cAMP metabolic mutant, suggesting that Galphas is essential for synaptic plasticity. The intent of this study was to examine the role of Galphas in regulating synaptic function by targeting constitutively active Galphas to either pre- or postsynaptic cells and by examining loss-of-function Galphas mutants (dgs) at the glutamatergic neuromuscular junction (NMJ) model synapse. Surprisingly, both loss of Galphas and activation of Galphas in either pre- or postsynaptic compartment similarly increased basal neurotransmission, decreased short-term plasticity (facilitation and augmentation), and abolished posttetanic potentiation. Elevated synaptic function was specific to an evoked neurotransmission pathway because both spontaneous synaptic vesicle fusion frequency and amplitude were unaltered in all mutants. In the postsynaptic cell, the glutamate receptor field was regulated by Galphas activity; based on immunocytochemical studies, GluRIIA receptor subunits were dramatically downregulated (&gt;75% decrease) in both loss and constitutive active Galphas genotypes. In the presynaptic cell, the synaptic vesicle cycle was regulated by Galphas activity; based on FM1-43 dye imaging studies, evoked vesicle fusion rate was increased in both loss and constitutively active Galphas genotypes. An important conclusion of this study is that both increased and decreased Galphas activity very similarly alters pre- and postsynaptic mechanisms. A second important conclusion is that Galphas activity induces transynaptic signaling; targeted Galphas activation in the presynapse downregulates postsynaptic GluRIIA receptors, whereas targeted Galphas activation in the postsynapse enhances presynaptic vesicle cycling.
Hypocretin-1 and -2 (Hcrt-1 and -2, also called orexin-A and -B) are newly identified neuropeptides synthesized by hypothalamic neurons. Defects in the Hcrt system underlie the sleep disorder narcolepsy, which is characterized by sleep fragmentation and the involuntary loss of muscle tone called cataplexy. Hcrt neurons project to multiple brain regions including cranial and spinal motor nuclei. In vitro studies suggest that Hcrt application can modulate presynaptic glutamate release. Together these observations suggest that Hcrt can affect motor output and that glutamatergic processes may be involved. We addressed these issues in decerebrate cats by applying Hcrt-1 and -2 into the trigeminal motor nucleus to determine whether these ligands alter masseter muscle activity and by pretreating the trigeminal motor nucleus with a N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA) antagonist to determine if glutamatergic pathways are involved in the transduction of the Hcrt signal. We found that Hcrt-1 and -2 microinjections into the trigeminal motor nucleus increased ipsilateral masseter muscle tone in a dose-dependent manner. We also found that Hcrt application into the hypoglossal motor nucleus increases genioglossus muscle activity. Pretreatment with a NMDA antagonist (d-(-)-2-amino-phosphonovaleric acid) abolished the excitatory response of the masseter muscle to Hcrt-1 application; however, pretreatment with methysergide, a serotonin antagonist had no effect. These studies are the first to demonstrate that Hcrt causes the excitation of motoneurons and that functional NMDA receptors are required for this response. We suggest that Hcrt regulates motor control processes and that this regulation is mediated by glutamate release in the trigeminal motor nucleus.
Cocontraction (the simultaneous activation of antagonist muscles around a joint) provides the nervous system with a way to adapt the mechanical properties of the limb to changing task requirements-both in statics and during movement. However, relatively little is known about the conditions under which the motor system modulates limb impedance through cocontraction. The goal of this study was to test for a possible relationship between cocontraction and movement accuracy in multi-joint limb movements. The electromyographic activity of seven single- and double-joint shoulder and elbow muscles was recorded using surface electrodes while subjects performed a pointing task in a horizontal plane to targets that varied randomly in size. Movement speed was controlled by providing subjects with feedback on a trial-to-trial basis. Measures of cocontraction were estimated both during movement and during a 200-ms window immediately following movement end. We observed an inverse relationship between target size and cocontraction: as target size was reduced, cocontraction activity increased. In addition, trajectory variability decreased and endpoint accuracy improved. This suggests that, although energetically expensive, cocontraction may be a strategy used by the motor system to facilitate multi-joint arm movement accuracy. We also observed a general trend for cocontraction levels to decrease over time, supporting the idea that cocontraction and associated limb stiffness are reduced over the course of practice.
Projections from the hippocampus, the mediodorsal thalamus (MD), and the ventral tegmental area (VTA) form interconnected neural circuits that converge in the prefrontal cortex (PFC) to participate in the regulation of executive functions. The present study assessed the roles that the MD and VTA play in regulating the hippocampal-PFC pathway using extracellular single-unit recordings in urethane-anesthetized rats. MD stimulation inhibited PFC neuron firing (approximately 100 msec duration) evoked by fimbria/fornix (FF) stimulation in a majority of neurons tested. However, this effect was reduced if activation of thalamocortical inputs occurred almost simultaneously (10 msec) with stimulation of the FF. In a separate population of neurons, burst stimulation of the MD produced a short-term (approximately 100 msec) inhibition or facilitation of FF-evoked firing in 66 and 33% of PFC neurons, respectively. Moreover, tetanic stimulation of the MD caused a longer-lasting (approximately 5 min) potentiation of FF-evoked firing. Burst stimulation of the VTA inhibited FF-evoked firing in a frequency-dependent manner: firing evoked by higher-frequency trains of pulses to the FF was less inhibited than firing evoked by single-pulse stimulation. The inhibitory actions of VTA stimulation were augmented by D1 receptor antagonism and attenuated by D2 and D4 antagonists. Moreover, stimulation of the MD 10 msec before stimulation of the FF attenuated the VTA-mediated inhibition of evoked firing. Thus, both the MD and VTA exert a complex gating action over PFC neural activity, either facilitating or inhibiting firing in the hippocampal-PFC pathway depending on the frequency and relative timing of the arrival of afferent input.
Hyperthermia is a symptom of methamphetamine (METH) intoxication and a factor implicated in neurotoxicity during chronic METH use. To characterize the thermic response to METH, it was injected once daily into rats at increasing doses (0, 1, 3, and 9 mg/kg, s.c.) while brain [nucleus accumbens (NAcc), hippocampus] and body (deep temporal muscle) temperatures were continuously monitored. METH produced dose-dependent hyperthermia, with brain structures (especially the NAcc) showing a more rapid and pronounced temperature increase than the muscle. At the highest dose, brain and body temperatures increased 3.5-4.0 degrees C above basal levels and remained elevated for 3-5 hr. Stressful and other high-activity situations such as interaction with a conspecific female are also known to induce a significant hyperthermic response in the rat. A combination of social interaction and METH administration was tested for additive effects. Male rats were exposed daily to a conspecific female for a total of 120 min, and METH was injected at the same doses 30 min after the initial contact with the female. An initial hyperthermic response ( approximately 1.5 degrees C) to social interaction was followed by a large and prolonged hyperthermic response (3.5-5.0 degrees C, 5-7 hr at 9 mg/kg) to METH, which was again stronger in brain structures (especially in the NAcc) than in the muscle. Although the combined effect of the hyperthermic events was not additive, METH administration during social interaction produced stronger and longer-lasting increases in brain and body temperature than that induced by drug alone, heating the brain in some animals near its biological limit (&gt;41 degrees C).
The optic tectum is the largest visual center in most vertebrates and the main target for retinal ganglion cells (RGCs) conveying visual information from the eye to the brain. The retinotectal projection has served as an important model in many areas of developmental neuroscience. However, knowledge of the function of the tectum is limited. We began to address this issue using laser ablations and subsequent behavioral testing in zebrafish. We used a transgenic zebrafish line that expresses green-fluorescent protein in RGCs projecting to the tectum. By aiming a laser beam at the labeled retinal fibers demarcating the tectal neuropil, the larval tectum could be selectively destroyed. We tested whether tectum-ablated zebrafish larvae, when presented with large-field movements in their surroundings, displayed optokinetic responses (OKR) or optomotor responses (OMR), two distinct visuomotor behaviors that compensate for self-motion. Neither OKR nor OMR were found to be dependent on intact retinotectal connections. Also, visual acuity remained unaffected. Tectum ablation, however, slowed down the OKR by reducing the frequency of saccades but left tracking velocity, gain, and saccade amplitude unaffected. Removal of the tectum had no effect on the processing of second-order motion, to which zebrafish show both OKR and OMR, suggesting that the tectum is not an integral part of the circuit that extracts higher-order cues in the motion pathway.
Under both pathological and experimental conditions, area CA3 of the adult or juvenile hippocampus generates periodic population discharges known as interictal bursts. Whereas the ionic and synaptic basis of individual bursts has been comprehensively studied experimentally and computationally, the pacemaker mechanisms underlying interictal rhythmicity remain conjectural. We showed previously that rhythmic population discharges resembling interictal bursts can be induced in hippocampal slices from first postnatal week mice, in Mg2+-free solution with GABA(A) receptor-mediated inhibition blocked. Here we show that these neonatal bursts occurred with high temporal precision and that their frequency and regularity were greatly reduced by the bradycardic agent ZD-7288 when applied at concentrations and durations that selectively block the hyperpolarization-activated, cationic current I(h). Augmenting I(h) by elevating intracellular cAMP dramatically increased burst frequency in a protein kinase A-independent manner. Burst amplitudes were strongly correlated with the preceding, but not the following, interburst intervals. The experimentally observed distribution of interburst intervals was modeled by assuming that a burst was triggered whenever the instantaneous rate of spontaneous EPSPs (sEPSPs) exceeded a threshold and that the mean sEPSP rate was minimal immediately after a burst and then relaxed exponentially to a steady-state level. The effect of blocking I(h) in any given slice could be modeled by decreasing only the steady-state sEPSP rate, suggesting that the instantaneous rate of sEPSPs is governed by the level of I(h) activation and raising the novel possibility that interburst intervals reflected the slow activation kinetics of I(h) in the neonatal CA3.
The G protein-coupled muscarinic acetylcholine receptor (mAChR) isoforms have been identified in neural stem/progenitor (or precursor) cells. In previous studies, activation of these receptors induced elevations in intracellular Ca(2+) signals and mitogen-activated protein (MAP) kinase activity that led to enhanced DNA synthesis along with neurogenesis in neural precursor cells. Here we report that the nonreceptor protein tyrosine kinase c-src activity is required for the muscarinic receptor-activated MAP kinase and cAMP-responsive element-binding protein (CREB). Stimulation of neural precursor cells dissociated from embryonic day 13 rat cortical neuroepithelium with the muscarinic receptor agonist carbachol (CCh) induced phosphorylations of c-src that were detected by antibodies raised against phospho-Tyr416 (Ptyr416), phospho-Tyr527 (Ptyr527), and phospho-Tyr215 (Ptyr215) of the kinase. Although an increase in Ptyr416 suggested direct activation of c-src, Ptyr215 may serve as an alternative mechanism underlying activation of c-src without dephosphorylation of Ptyr-527. Both extracellular signal-regulated kinase (Erk1/2) and CREB were significantly activated after CCh treatment indicated by increases in phosphorylation of these two proteins. The c-Src inhibitor PP1 abolished the CCh-induced activation of Erk1/2 and CREB in a dose-dependent manner. Moreover, CCh stimulated expression of the neuronal specific marker MAP2, which was inhibited by PP1. Cell proliferation assays and immunocytochemistry revealed that PP1 inhibited the CCh-induced DNA synthesis and MAP2(+) production. These results suggest that c-src activity is essential for the muscarinic receptor-mediated proliferation and neurogenesis in neural precursor cells via Erk1/2 and CREB signaling pathways.



Inflammation of a peripheral nerve (neuritis) causes mechanical and thermal hyperalgesia in the region in which the inflamed nerve innervates. We investigated whether peripherally applied norepinephrine (NE) would exacerbate mechanical hyperalgesia in rats with neuritis. After inflammation of the left L5 spinal nerve with complete Freund's adjuvant, the foot withdrawal thresholds to mechanical stimuli applied to the affected hind paw (mechanical thresholds) were decreased significantly, indicating the development of mechanical hyperalgesia. An intradermal injection of NE to the affected paw further aggravated mechanical hyperalgesia transiently (1-3 days) and then recovered to the pre-NE injection levels afterwards. This responsiveness to NE (adrenergic sensitivity) was observed not only while rats were showing inflammatory hyperalgesia but also after recovering from it. The effect of NE on mechanical hyperalgesia was mediated by both peripheral alpha(1)- and alpha(2)-adrenoceptors. Immunohistochemical study of the previously inflamed nerve showed that proinflammatory cytokine tumor necrosis factor immunoreactivity was significantly higher in the rats showing adrenergic sensitivity compared to rats without adrenergic sensitivity. The data thus suggest that peripheral NE, when released in an excessive amount from the sympathetic nervous system, might play an important role in the aggravation of pain in neuritis.
To identify why reconceptualization of the problem is difficult in chronic pain, this study aimed to evaluate whether (1) health professionals and patients can understand currently accurate information about the neurophysiology of pain and (2) health professionals accurately estimate the ability of patients to understand the neurophysiology of pain. Knowledge tests were completed by 276 patients with chronic pain and 288 professionals either before (untrained) or after (trained) education about the neurophysiology of pain. Professionals estimated typical patient performance on the test. Untrained participants performed poorly (mean +/- standard deviation, 55% +/- 19% and 29% +/- 12% for professionals and patients, respectively), compared to their trained counterparts (78% +/- 21% and 61% +/- 19%, respectively). The estimated patient score (46% +/- 18%) was less than the actual patient score (P &lt;.005). The results suggest that professionals and patients can understand the neurophysiology of pain but professionals underestimate patients' ability to understand. The implications are that (1) a poor knowledge of currently accurate information about pain and (2) the underestimation of patients' ability to understand currently accurate information about pain represent barriers to reconceptualization of the problem in chronic pain within the clinical and lay arenas.
Oxcarbazepine is a second-generation antiepileptic drug (AED) with proven efficacy in managing partial epileptic seizures, with or without secondary generalization, in adults and children. The overlap between the underlying pathophysiologic mechanisms of some epilepsy models and neuropathic pain models supports the rationale for using certain AEDs in the treatment of neuropathic pain. Several AEDs have reportedly produced analgesia in a range of neuropathic pains, including painful diabetic neuropathy (PDN) and post-herpetic neuralgia. Increasing evidence suggests that oxcarbazepine can provide significant analgesia in several neuropathic pain conditions, including trigeminal neuralgia and PDN, and is also may be effective in treating neuropathic pain refractory to other AEDs, such as carbamazepine and gabapentin. The analgesic effects of oxcarbazepine, and its generally improved safety and tolerability profile compared with other standard AEDs, suggests that oxcarbazepine will be an important addition to the neuropathic pain armamentarium. The rationale and evidence to support the efficacy of oxcarbazepine are presented here.
The muscarinic M(2) receptor was split at the third cytoplasmic loop into two fragments: the one containing the first five transmembrane regions and the N-terminal part of the third cytoplasmic loop was named M(2trunk), while the other, which contained the last two transmembrane regions and the C-terminal part of the third cytoplasmic loop, was named M(2tail). As seen in many other G protein-coupled receptors, when these two fragments were transfected together in COS-7 cells they rescued the pharmacological profile and the functional activity of the wild-type M(2) receptor. Conversely, N-[(3)H]methylscopolamine ([(3)H]NMS) association binding experiments showed a substantial difference between the wild-type M(2) and the split M(2trunk)/M(2tail) receptors. The progression of the association binding kinetic of the M(2trunk)/M(2tail) receptor was strictly dependent upon the amount of the fragment DNA transfected. When the amount of transfected DNA was 4 microg/plate and the B(max) of [(3)H]NMS at equilibrium was around 200 fmol/mg protein the form of the association was that of classical saturation, but when the amount of transfected DNA was lower the [(3)H]NMS association reached a maximum binding point and then declined to a lower equilibrium binding level. The form of the association was temperature-dependent: as the temperature was lowered, the maximum binding point tended to be higher. We suggest that this peculiar form of the [(3)H]NMS association binding to the muscarinic M(2trunk)/M(2tail) receptor is attributable to a less stable interaction between the trunk and the tail fragments of the split receptor.
Because nociceptin/orphanin FQ (N/OFQ) has both pronociceptive (hyperalgesia) and antinociceptive actions in pharmacological experiments, and there is no significant difference in the nociceptive responses between NOP(-/-) mice and their wild-type (NOP(+/+)) littermates, the physiological role of N/OFQ in pain regulation remains to be determined. Under the hypothesis that the use of molecularly distinct nociception test may reveal the pain modality-specific role of N/OFQ, we attempted to examine the physiological role of N/OFQ in pain transmission by using newly developed algogenic-induced nociceptive flexion test in NOP(-/-) and NOP(+/+) mice or NOP antagonist-treated mice. The nociceptive flexor responses upon intraplantar injection of bradykinin or substance P, which stimulates polymodal substance P-ergic fibers, were markedly potentiated in NOP(-/-) mice, compared with those in its NOP(+/+) mice. However, there were no significant changes in NOP(-/-) mice with adenosine triphosphate or prostaglandin I(2) agonist, which stimulates glutamatergic but not substance P-ergic fibers. The nocifensive responses induced by substance P (i.t.) were also potentiated in NOP(-/-) mice. On the other hand, there were no significant differences in NK1-like immunoreactivity, [(3)H]substance P binding, or NK1 gene expression in the dorsal horn of the spinal cord between NOP(-/-) and NOP(+/+) mice. In addition, NOP antagonists decreased the threshold in nociception tests driving spinal substance P neurotransmission. All these findings suggest that the N/OFQ-ergic neuron may play an in vivo inhibitory role on the second-order neurons for primary polymodal substance P-ergic fibers in the spinal cord.
Chromosomal loci containing genes affecting antinociceptive sensitivity to morphine have been identified, but virtually nothing is known about the genetic mediation of sensitivity to over-the-counter analgesics. Such knowledge would be of great clinical interest, as prodigious interindividual variability has been noted in the efficacy of these ubiquitously used drugs. In the present study, we assessed heritability and genetic correlations among three over-the-counter analgesics in mice of 12 inbred mouse strains on the 0.9% acetic acid (i.p.) writhing test. Analgesics included the centrally acting analgesic, acetaminophen (150 mg/kg, s.c.), and the nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), indomethacin (40 mg/kg, s.c.) and lysine-acetylsalicylic acid (800 mg/kg, s.c.). Significant strain differences in sensitivity to each of the drugs were observed, with narrow-sense heritability estimates ranging from 23 to 45%. Similar strains were sensitive and resistant, respectively, to the two NSAIDs (r(s) = 0.64). In contrast, a completely different pattern of sensitivities was observed for acetaminophen, implying genetic dissociation (r(s) = 0.29 and 0.02) compared with the NSAIDs. Additional experiments were performed on two strains, C57BL/6 and DBA/2, with extreme sensitivities to acetaminophen. Plasma acetaminophen levels in these strains were not significantly different during the time of antinociception assessment, suggesting the existence of genetic factors affecting acetaminophen pharmacodynamics rather than pharmacokinetics.
In this study, we have compared the abilities of orexin-A and orexin-B and variants of orexin-A to activate different Ca(2+) responses (influx and release) in human OX(1) and OX(2) receptor- expressing Chinese hamster ovary cells. Responses mediated by activation of both receptor subtypes with either orexin-A or -B were primarily dependent on extracellular Ca(2+), suggesting similar activation of Ca(2+) influx as we have previously shown for orexin-A and OX(1) receptors. Amino acid-wise truncation of orexin-A reduced its ability to activate OX(1) and OX(2) receptors, but the response mediated by the OX(2) receptor was more resistant to truncation than the response mediated by the OX(1) receptor. We also performed a sequential replacement of amino acids 14 to 26 with alanine in the truncated orexin-A variant orexin-A(14-33). Replacement of the same amino acids produced a fall in the potency for each receptor subtype, but the reduction was less prominent for the OX(2) receptor. The most marked reduction was produced by the replacement of Leu20, Asp25, and His26 with alanine. Interestingly, extracellular Ca(2+) dependence of responses to some of the mutated peptides was different from those of orexin-A and -B. The mutagenesis also suggests that although the determinants required from orexin-A for binding to and activation of the receptor are highly conserved between the orexin receptor subtypes, the OX(2) receptor requires fewer determinants. This might in part explain why orexin-B has the affinity and potency equal to orexin-A for this subtype, although it has 10- to 100-fold lower affinity and potency for the OX(1) receptor.
In colitis, chronic and recurrent inflammation is associated with a breakdown in host defence mechanisms that leads to local and systemic infection. Whether this is due to a compromised neuroimmune response has not been studied. Our aim was to determine if colitis altered the host neuroimmune response as reflected in either body temperature rhythm or the febrile responses to lipopolysaccharide (LPS). Body temperature was monitored by telemetry from conscious, unrestrained male rats treated with trinitrobenzene sulphonic acid or saline. Twenty-six days after initial induction, colitis was reactivated. Animals were given LPS (50 microg kg-1 Escherichia coli LPS) during colitis and after reactivation. At the peak of colitis, treated rats showed a disruption of circadian body temperature rhythm, manifested as day-time fever followed by night-time hypothermia. In response to LPS, controls displayed a characteristic fever, whereas treated animals had a significantly reduced fever and low plasma levels of interleukin-6 (IL-6) and tumour necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha). During reactivation of colitis, treated animals did not mount a fever or exhibit increased plasma levels of IL-6 and TNF-alpha after LPS. We conclude that experimental colitis is associated with a compromised neuroimmune status.
The regional organization of the ventral respiratory group (VRG) was examined with respect to generation of respiratory rhythm (breathing frequency) versus control of the respiratory motor pattern on individual nerves. In urethane-anaesthetized, neuromuscularly blocked and vagotomized Sprague-Dawley rats, arterial blood pressure (ABP) and respiratory motor outputs (phrenic, pharyngeal branch of the vagus, or superior laryngeal nerves) were recorded. The VRG organization was mapped systematically using injections of the excitatory amino acid DL-homocysteic acid (DLH; 5-20 mM, 2-6 nl) from single- or double-barrel pipettes at 100-200 microm intervals between the facial nucleus and the calamus scriptorius. Recording of respiratory neurons through the injection pipette ensured that the pipette was located within the VRG. At the end of each experiment, the injection pipette was used to make an electrical lesion, thereby marking the electrode position for subsequent histological reconstruction of injection sites. Four rostrocaudal regions were identified: (1) a rostral bradypnoea area, at the level of the Btzinger complex, in which respiratory rhythm slowed and ABP increased, (2) a tachypnoea/dysrhythmia area, at the level of the preBtzinger complex, in which breathing rate either increased or became irregular, with little or no change in ABP, (3) a caudal bradypnoea area at the level of the anterior part of the rostral VRG in which ABP decreased and (4) a caudal 'no effect' region in the posterior part of the rostral VRG. The peak amplitude of phrenic nerve activity decreased with injections into all three rostral regions. Changes in respiratory rhythm were associated with opposite changes in inspiratory (TI) and expiratory (TE) durations after injections into either the Btzinger complex or anterior rostral VRG, while both TI and TE decreased after injections into the preBtzinger complex. Effects on selected cranial nerves were similar to those on the phrenic nerve except that tonic activity was elicited on the superior larygneal nerve ipsilateral to injections in the Btzinger complex and on the pharyngeal branch of the vagus ipsilateral to injections in the preBtzinger complex. These data reinforce the subdivision of the VRG into functionally distinct compartments and suggest that a further subdivision of the rostral VRG is warranted. They also suggest that region-specific influences, especially on the pattern of cranial motor discharge, can be used to assist the identification of recording sites within the VRG. However, the postulated clear functional separation of rhythm- versus pattern-generating regions was not supported.
Melatonin, originating from intestinal enterochromaffin cells, mediates vagal and sympathetic neural stimulation of the HCO secretion by the duodenal mucosa. This alkaline secretion is considered the first line of mucosal defense against hydrochloric acid discharged from the stomach. We have studied whether luminally applied melatonin stimulates the protective secretion and whether a melatonin pathway is involved in acid-induced stimulation of the secretion. Rats were anaesthetized (Inactin) and a 12-mm segment of proximal duodenum with an intact blood supply was cannulated in situ. Mucosal HCO secretion (pH-stat) and the mean arterial blood pressure were continuously recorded. Luminal melatonin at a concentration of 1.0 micro m increased (P &lt; 0.05) the secretion from 7.20 +/- 1.35 to 13.20 +/- 1.51 micro Eq/cm/hr. The MT2 selective antagonist luzindole (600 nmol/kg, i.v.) had no effect on basal HCO secretion, but inhibited (P &lt; 0.05) secretion stimulated by luminal melatonin. Hexamethonium (10 mg/kg i.v. followed by continuous i.v. infusion at a rate of 10 mg/kg/hr), abolishes neurally mediated rises in secretion and also inhibited (P &lt; 0.05) the stimulation by luminal melatonin. Exposure of the lumen to acid containing perfusate (pH 2.0) for 5 min increased (P &lt; 0.05) the HCO secretion from 5.85 +/- 0.82 to 12.35 +/- 1.51 micro Eq/cm/hr, and luzindole significantly inhibited (P &lt; 0.05) this rise in secretion. The study thus demonstrates that luminal melatonin is a potent stimulant of duodenal HCO secretion and, furthermore, strongly suggests melatonin as an important mediator of acid-induced secretion.

According to the classification criteria proposed by the American College of Rheumatology, fibromyalgia is a long-standing multifocal pain condition combined with generalised allodynia/hyperalgesia. It is the generalised allodynia/hyperalgesia that distinguishes fibromyalgia from other conditions with chronic musculoskeletal pain. Central sensitisation of nociceptive neurons in the dorsal horn due to activation of N-methyl-D-aspartic acid receptors and disinhibition of pain due to deficient function of the descending inhibitory system are probable pathogenic factors for allodynia/hyperalgesia. Furthermore, chronic pain is a chronic emotional and physical stressor. Chronic stress and chronic sleep disturbance are not specific for fibromyalgia but could be the causes of symptoms like fatigue, cognitive difficulties and other stress-related symptoms. They may also cause neuroendocrinological and immunological aberrations.
Recent neuroscientific evidence has revealed that the adult brain is capable of substantial plastic change in such areas as the primary somatosensory cortex that were formerly thought to be modifiable only during early experience. These findings have implications for our understanding of chronic pain. Functional reorganisation in both the somatosensory and the motor system was observed in neuropathic and musculoskeletal pain. In patients with chronic low back pain and fibromyalgia the amount of reorganisational change increases with chronicity; in phantom limb pain and other neuropathic pain syndromes cortical reorganisation is correlated with the amount of pain. These central alterations may be viewed as pain memories that influence the processing of both painful and nonpainful input to the somatosensory system as well as its effects on the motor system. Cortical plasticity related to chronic pain can be modified by behavioural interventions that provide feedback to the brain areas that were altered by somatosensory pain memories or by pharmacological agents that prevent or reverse maladaptive memory formation.
Recent findings concerning the regenerative potential of the adult brain suggest a more pronounced plasticity than previously thought. One such finding is the generation of new neurons in the adult brain (neurogenesis). Loss of neurons has long been considered to be irreversible in the adult human brain, i.e., dead neurons are not replaced. The inability to generate replacement cells is thought to be an important cause of neurological disease and impairment. In most brain regions, the generation of neurons is generally confined to a discrete developmental period. Exceptions have recently been described in several regions of the brain that have been shown to generate new neurons well into the postnatal and adult period. One of the best characterized regions is the subgranular zone of the dentate gyrus in the brain, where granule neurons are generated throughout life from a population of progenitor/ stem cells. Furthermore, recent findings suggest that neurogenesis may be of importance for memory function as well as mood disorders. Several very important questions can be formulated on the basis of these discoveries, for instance, what factors influence the generation of new neurons and whether it is possible for enhanced neurogenesis to contribute to functional recovery.
One aim of rehabilitation after brain lesions should be to optimise the function of the remaining intact brain. Experimental studies on focal cerebral infarcts in the rat have demonstrated that postischemic environmental enrichment significantly improves functional outcome, increases dendrite branching and number of dendritic spines in the contralateral cortex, influences expression of many genes and modifies lesion-induced stem cell differentiation in the hippocampus. Furthermore, environmental factors can interact with specific interventions such as necrotic grafting and drug treatment, which underlines the importance of general stimulation and activation in rehabilitation after brain damage. Animal laboratories often provide an environment with little stimulation. This should be taken into account when evaluating the clinical relevance of animal studies on long-term functional outcome after brain lesions.




Insect and mammalian olfactory systems are strikingly similar. Therefore, Drosophila can be used as a simple model for olfaction and olfactory learning. The brain of adult Drosophila, however, is still complex. We therefore chose to work on the larva with its yet simpler but adult-like olfactory system and provide evidence for olfactory learning in individually assayed Drosophila larvae. We developed a differential conditioning paradigm in which odorants are paired with positive (&quot;+&quot; fructose) or negative (&quot;-&quot; quinine or sodium chloride) gustatory reinforcers. Test performance of individuals from two treatment conditions is compared-one received odorant A with the positive reinforcer and odorant B with a negative reinforcer (A+/B-); animals from the other treatment condition were trained reciprocally (A-/B+). During test, differences in choice between A and B of individuals having undergone either A+/B- or A-/B+ training therefore indicate associative learning. We provide such evidence for both combinations of reinforcers; this was replicable across repetitions, laboratories, and experimenters. We further show that breaks improve performance, in accord with basic principles of associative learning. The present individual assay will facilitate electrophysiological studies, which necessarily use individuals. As such approaches are established for the larval neuromuscular synapse, but not in adults, an individual larval learning paradigm will serve to link behavioral levels of analysis to synaptic physiology.
Many behavioral and electrophysiological studies in animals and humans have suggested that sleep and circadian rhythms influence memory consolidation. In rodents, hippocampus-dependent memory may be particularly sensitive to sleep deprivation after training, as spatial memory in the Morris water maze is impaired by rapid eye movement sleep deprivation following training. Spatial learning in the Morris water maze, however, requires multiple training trials and performance, as measured by time to reach the hidden platform is influenced by not only spatial learning but also procedural learning. To determine if sleep is important for the consolidation of a single-trial, hippocampus-dependent task, we sleep deprived animals for 0-5 and 5-10 h after training for contextual and cued fear conditioning. We found that sleep deprivation from 0-5 h after training for this task impaired memory consolidation for contextual fear conditioning whereas sleep deprivation from 5-10 h after training had no effect. Sleep deprivation at either time point had no effect on cued fear conditioning, a hippocampus-independent task. Previous studies have determined that memory consolidation for fear conditioning is impaired when protein kinase A and protein synthesis inhibitors are administered at the same time as when sleep deprivation is effective, suggesting that sleep deprivation may act by modifying these molecular mechanisms of memory storage.
Diffusion tensor imaging (DTI) was used to examine 1) age-related changes in genu, splenium, and centrum semiovale white matter diffusivity in 64 healthy men and women (age 23-85 years); 2) the relationship between diffusivity (trace) and fractional anisotropy (FA) across and within individuals; and 3) the role of macrostructural and microstructural partial voluming effects on the DTI metrics. Regional differences were greater in FA (approximately 43%) than in trace (approximately 16%). Depending on the region of interest, trace increased with age (r = 0.24 to 0.58) and FA decreased with age (r = -0.29 to -0.79). FA was inversely correlated with trace, even when controlling for age. Histogram analysis of trace and FA following systematic expansion and dilation of the white matter regions demonstrated greater susceptibility of FA than trace to error arising from macrostructural partial voluming, i.e., erroneous inclusion of primarily nonwhite-matter voxels. Three-phase ellipsoid shape analysis revealed that after morphometric erosion the spherical component remained greater in older than younger subjects in the splenium and centrum, suggesting that age-related reduction in FA arises from intravoxel increased interstitial fluid. Reducing the size of the white matter samples to control for macrostructural partial voluming attenuated but did not negate effects, indicating that observed changes in white matter with aging can reflect real microstructural alterations rather than sampling artifact. Morphological dilation of white matter regions of interest resulting in purposeful inclusion of non-white matter pixels significantly reduced mean FA, suggesting that reports of FA values below 0.25 in healthy adults may reflect partial voluming rather than actual changes in white matter coherence.
Diffusion MRI has the potential to probe the compartmental origins of MR signals acquired from human nervous tissue. However, current experiments in human subjects require long diffusion times, which may confound data interpretation due to the effects of compartmental exchange. To investigate human nervous tissue at shorter diffusion times, and to determine the relevance of previous diffusion studies in rat hippocampal slices, water diffusion in 20 perfused human hippocampal slices was measured using a wide-bore 17.6-T magnet equipped with 1000-mT/m gradients. These slices were procured from five patients undergoing temporal lobectomy for epilepsy. Tissue viability was confirmed with electrophysiological measurements. Diffusion-weighted water signal attenuation in the slices was well-described by a biexponential function (R(2) &gt; 0.99). The mean diffusion parameters for slices before osmotic perturbation were 0.686 +/- 0.082 for the fraction of fast diffusing water (F(fast)), 1.22 +/- 0.22 x 10(-3) mm(2)/s for the fast apparent diffusion coefficient (ADC), and 0.06 +/- 0.02 x 10(-3) mm(2)/s for the slow ADC. Slice perturbations with 20% hypotonic and 20% hypertonic artificial cerebrospinal fluid led to changes in F(fast) of -8.2% and +10.1%, respectively (ANOVA, P &lt; 0.001). These data agree with previous diffusion studies of rat brain slices and human brain in vivo, and should aid the development of working models of water diffusion in nervous tissue, and thus increase the clinical utility of diffusion MRI.
A highly effective outer volume suppression (OVS) technique, termed spatially selective echo dephasing (SSED), which employs gradient dephasing of spatially selective spin echoes, is introduced. SSED, which is relatively insensitive to T(1) dispersion among lipid signals and B(1) inhomogeneity, was integrated with very high spatial resolution 2D proton echo-planar spectroscopic imaging (PEPSI) to assess residual lipid bleeding into cortical regions in the human brain. The method was optimized to minimize signal refocusing of secondary spin-echoes in areas of overlapping suppression slices. A comparison of spatial presaturation with single or double SSED, and with combined presaturation and SSED shows that the latter method has superior performance with spatially uniform lipid suppression factors in excess of 70. Metabolite mapping (choline, creatine, and NAA) with a 64 x 64 spatial matrix and 0.3 cm(3) voxels in close proximity to peripheral lipid regions was demonstrated at 1.5 T with a scan time of 32 min using the standard head coil.
Functional perfusion imaging with a separate labeling coil located above the common carotid artery was demonstrated in human volunteers at 3 T. A helmet resonator and a spin-echo echo-planar imaging (EPI) sequence were used for imaging, and a circular surface coil of 6 cm i.d. was employed for labeling. The subjects performed a finger-tapping task. Signal differences between the condition of finger tapping and the resting state were between -0.5% and -1.1 % among the subjects. The imaging protocol included a long post-label delay (PLD) to reduce transit time effects. Labeling was applied for all repetitions of the functional run to reduce the sampling interval.
This article present a review of recent work on cognitive neuroscience approaches of schizophrenia. Some of the symptoms displayed by schizophrenic patients can be reconsidered within the framework of disorganization of well identified cognitive functions, like self-recognition. Neuroimaging techniques can reveal in these patients disruption of neural networks normally involved in such functions.

The use of music as a means of inducing positive emotions and subsequent relaxation has been studied extensively by researchers. A great deal of this research has centered on the use of music as a means of reducing feelings of anxiety and stress as well as aiding in the relief of numerous pathologies. The precise mechanism responsible for these mediated effects has never been truly determined. In the current report we propose that nitric oxide (NO) is the molecule chiefly responsible for these physiological and psychological relaxing effects. Furthermore this molecules importance extends beyond the mechanistic, and is required for the development of the very process that it mediates. Nitric oxide has been determined to aid in the development of the auditory system and participate in cochlear blood flow. We show that NO is additionally responsible for the induced exhibited physiological effects. We proceed to outline the precise neurochemical pathway leading to these effects. Furthermore we explore the interrelationship between the varying emotion centers within the central nervous system and explain how the introduction of music can mediate its effects via NO coupled to these complex pathways.
Particle-mediated ballistic delivery of fluorescent dyes has been recently used to label neuronal populations in a rapid and efficient fashion. Here we describe detailed protocols for this technique as well as recent improvements in its implementation. This technique allows rapid labeling of entire neurons in a Golgi-like manner after membranes of individual neurons are contacted by particles coated with lipophilic dyes. Neurons can be labeled by dyes of different colors at controlled densities to facilitate the study of structural interactions between cells. Furthermore, in conjunction with other histochemical labeling methods, the technique can be used to study changes in neuronal structures associated with pathologic processes in animal models or postmortem human brain. In addition to lipophilic dyes, water-soluble molecules such as calcium indicators can also be delivered efficiently with this technique. The method of ballistic delivery of indicators thus provides new avenues to probe the structure and function of the nervous system.
A multiple microelectrode carrier system is described that allows each of 16 microelectrodes in a high-density array to be manipulated in the brain independently by remote control during a cognitive task. Descriptions of the carrier system, advancing techniques, and microelectrode design are presented that allow high-fidelity, extracellular recordings of multiple cerebral cortex neurons with high signal-to-noise ratio and day-to-day repeatability. The motivation for the new carrier system was to provide a method to target multi-microelectrode recordings to a distinct population of fast-spiking neurons in the cerebral cortex during a behavioral task to assess their involvement in selective attention. Recent work using intracellular recording in vitro and single-neuron extracellular recordings in vivo has demonstrated that subpopulations of cortical interneurons can be identified on the basis of their action potential waveform and response to sensory input, and that such interneurons play a fundamental role in generating cortical rhythmicity associated with vigilant wakefulness. A new behavioral paradigm is presented, based on Pavlov's and Kamin's classic work on compound conditioning, that permits the electrophysiological patterns of selective attention among neuronal ensembles to be distinguished from those of sensation without attention in a primary sensory cortex. Our approach of multiple, individually guided cerebral cortical recordings in behaving rats during a complex cognitive task is beginning to provide new support for the role of fast cerebral rhythms in selective attention.

Actin filaments control cell morphology and are essential to the growth of dendritic spines and the plasticity of hippocampal long-term potentiation (LTP). The length of these filaments is regulated in muscle and nonmuscle cell types by tropomodulins 1-4 (Tmod1-4), a family of proteins that cap the pointed ends of actin filaments. To investigate whether tropomodulins could play a role in synaptic plasticity, learning, memory, or behavior, we created mice lacking Tropomodulin-2 (Tmod2), which is highly expressed in neuronal structures. Tmod2(lacZ-/-) mice are viable and fertile and exhibit no gross morphological or anatomical abnormalities, but behavioral analysis found hyperactivity, reduced sensorimotor gating, and impaired learning and memory. Electrophysiological analysis revealed enhanced LTP in Tmod2(lacZ-/-) mice. These studies suggest that Tmod2 plays a role in behavior, learning, memory, and synaptic plasticity.
Nicotine, acting at pentameric neuronal nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (nAChRs), is the primary addictive component in tobacco. At low doses, it affects attention, learning, memory, anxiety, cardiovascular responses, thermoregulation, and nociception. At high doses, nicotine produces more drastic behaviors and eventually induces tonic-clonic seizures in rodents. In mammals, several subunits of the nAChRs have been cloned, including eight alpha and three beta subunits. To study the physiological role of the alpha 5 subunit, we have generated alpha 5-deficient mice. These mice have a generally healthy appearance and are normal in a standard battery of behavioral tests. However, the sensitivity of alpha 5 mutant mice to nicotine-induced behaviors and seizures is dramatically reduced compared with their wild-type littermates. These animals have a normal brain anatomy and normal levels of mRNA for other nAChR subunits, namely alpha 4, alpha 6, alpha 7, beta 2, and beta 4. In addition, (125)I-epibatidine and [(125)I]alpha-bungarotoxin binding in the brains of alpha 5-deficient mice is normal. Together, these results suggest a direct involvement of the alpha 5 subunit in the observed phenotypes.
As schizophrenia is genetically and clinically heterogeneous, systematic investigations are required to determine whether ICD-10 or DSM-IV categorical diagnoses identify a phenotype suitable and sufficient for genetic research, or whether correlated phenotypes incorporating neurocognitive performance and personality traits provide a phenotypic characterisation that accounts better for the underlying variation. We utilised a grade of membership (GoM) model (a mathematical typology developed for studies of complex biological systems) to integrate multiple cognitive and personality measurements into a limited number of composite graded traits (latent pure types) in a sample of 61 nuclear families comprising 80 subjects with ICD-10/DSM-IV schizophrenia or schizophrenia spectrum disorders and 138 nonpsychotic first-degree relatives. GoM probability scores, computed for all subjects, allowed individuals to be partly assigned to more than one pure type. Two distinct and contrasting neurocognitive phenotypes, one familial, associated with paranoid schizophrenia, and one sporadic, associated with nonparanoid schizophrenia, accounted for 74% of the affected subjects. Combining clinical diagnosis with GoM scores to stratify the entire sample into liability classes, and using variance component analysis (SOLAR), in addition to parametric and nonparametric multipoint linkage analysis, we explored candidate regions on chromosomes 6, 10 and 22. The results indicated suggestive linkage for the familial neurocognitive phenotype (multipoint MLS 2.6 under a low-penetrance model and MLS&gt;3.0 under a high-penetrance model) to a 14 cM area on chromosome 6, including the entire HLA region. Results for chromosomes 10 and 22 were negative. The findings suggest that the familial neurocognitive phenotype may be a pleiotropic expression of genes underlying the susceptibility to paranoid schizophrenia. We conclude that use of composite neurocognitive and personality trait measurements as correlated phenotypes supplementing clinical diagnosis can help stratify the liability to schizophrenia across all members of families prior to linkage, allow the search for susceptibility genes to focus selectively on subsets of families at high genetic risk, and augment considerably the power of genetic analysis.

High-frequency deep brain stimulation (DBS) of the subthalamic nucleus (STN) improves the motor symptoms of Parkinson's disease (PD). Opposite changes in mood, such as mania or depression, have been reported after surgery, but it is not known whether these side effects are specifically related to STN DBS. To learn whether STN DBS also influences the limbic loop, we investigated acute subjective psychotropic effects related to levodopa or bilateral STN DBS. After a median postoperative follow-up of 12 months, 50 PD patients completed the Addiction Research Center Inventory (ARCI), assessing subjective psychotropic effects in four conditions: off-drug/on-stimulation; off-drug/off-stimulation; on-drug/off-stimulation; and on-drug/on-stimulation. Both levodopa and STN DBS improved all the ARCI subscales, indicating subjective feelings of well being, euphoria, increase in motivation, and decrease in fatigue, anxiety, and tension. A suprathreshold dose of levodopa was significantly more effective than STN DBS, using the same electrical parameters as for chronic stimulation, on four of the five ARCI subscales. We concluded that 1) both STN DBS and levodopa have synergistic acute beneficial psychotropic effects in PD, 2) the psychotropic effects of both treatments need to be considered in the long-term management of chronic STN DBS, and 3) the results indicate an involvement of the limbic STN in mood disorders of PD.
To evaluate the long-term efficacy and tolerability of quetiapine for psychosis among parkinsonian patients, a retrospective analysis of all parkinsonian patients taking quetiapine for psychosis in a single movement disorders center was carried out. Demographic data, including type and severity of psychosis, presence of dementia, treatment response, before and after Unified Parkinson's Disease Rating Scale (UPDRS)-motor scores and Hoehn and Yahr (H&amp;Y) scale were obtained. One hundred six parkinsonian patients with a mean age of 76.6 years were on an average levodopa (L-dopa) dose of 415 mg/d. Seventy-eight of 106 (74%) remained on quetiapine for a mean duration of 15 months at an average dose of 60 mg per day. Eighty-seven (82%) patients had partial or complete resolution of their psychosis whereas 19 (18%) patients had no improvement on quetiapine. Motor worsening was noted in 34 (32%) patients but was uncommonly sufficient to warrant quetiapine discontinuation. More quetiapine non-responders were noted to be demented, delusional, and experienced threatening psychosis but only the presence of dementia remained significant on multivariate analysis (OR = 11.6; 95% CI = 1.4-92.9). Also, patients who developed motor worsening while on quetiapine tended to be more demented (P = 0.07).
We report a Nigerian family with a late-onset autosomal dominant neuropathy consistent with Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease. Electrophysiological examination of the index patient confirmed a severe demyelinating neuropathy with secondary axonal features. Sequence analysis of the myelin protein zero (MPZ) gene identified a C-to-G transversion at nucleotide position 234, resulting in a serine-to-tryptophan mutation in codon 78 (S78W) of the translated protein. The presence of this novel missense mutation suggests a diagnosis of Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease type 1B. Our study confirms the worldwide distribution of this disorder and extends the genetic spectrum of mutations in the MPZ gene.
Glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF) is a potent neurotrophic factor with restorative effects in a wide variety of rodent and primate models of Parkinson disease, but penetration into brain tissue from either the blood or the cerebro-spinal fluid is limited. Here we delivered GDNF directly into the putamen of five Parkinson patients in a phase 1 safety trial. One catheter needed to be repositioned and there were changes in the magnetic resonance images that disappeared after lowering the concentration of GDNF. After one year, there were no serious clinical side effects, a 39% improvement in the off-medication motor sub-score of the Unified Parkinson's Disease Rating Scale (UPDRS) and a 61% improvement in the activities of daily living sub-score. Medication-induced dyskinesias were reduced by 64% and were not observed off medication during chronic GDNF delivery. Positron emission tomography (PET) scans of [(18)F]dopamine uptake showed a significant 28% increase in putamen dopamine storage after 18 months, suggesting a direct effect of GDNF on dopamine function. This study warrants careful examination of GDNF as a treatment for Parkinson disease.

The neurotrophin receptor p75(NTR) is involved in the regulation of axonal elongation by neurotrophins as well as several myelin components, including Nogo, myelin-associated glycoprotein (MAG) and myelin oligodendrocyte glycoprotein (OMgp). Neurotrophins stimulate neurite outgrowth by inhibiting Rho activity, whereas myelin-derived proteins activate RhoA and thereby inhibit growth. Here we show that direct interaction of the Rho GDP dissociation inhibitor (Rho-GDI) with p75(NTR) initiates the activation of RhoA, and this interaction between p75(NTR) and Rho-GDI is strengthened by MAG or Nogo. We also found that p75(NTR) facilitates the release of prenylated RhoA from Rho-GDI. The peptide ligand that is associated with the fifth alpha helix of p75(NTR) inhibits the interaction between Rho-GDI and p75(NTR), thus silencing the action mediated by p75(NTR). This peptide has potential as a therapeutic agent against the inhibitory cues that block regeneration in the central nervous system.


A pseudogene is a gene copy that does not produce a functional, full-length protein. The human genome is estimated to contain up to 20,000 pseudogenes. Although much effort has been devoted to understanding the function of pseudogenes, their biological roles remain largely unknown. Here we report the role of an expressed pseudogene-regulation of messenger-RNA stability-in a transgene-insertion mouse mutant exhibiting polycystic kidneys and bone deformity. The transgene was integrated into the vicinity of the expressing pseudogene of Makorin1, called Makorin1-p1. This insertion reduced transcription of Makorin1-p1, resulting in destabilization of Makorin1 mRNA in trans by way of a cis-acting RNA decay element within the 5' region of Makorin1 that is homologous between Makorin1 and Makorin1-p1. Either Makorin1 or Makorin1-p1 transgenes could rescue these phenotypes. Our findings demonstrate a specific regulatory role of an expressed pseudogene, and point to the functional significance of non-coding RNAs.
The dorsal column nuclei, cuneatus and gracilis, play a fundamental role in the processing and integration of somesthetic ascending information. Intracellular and patch-clamp recordings obtained in cat in vivo have shown that cuneothalamic projection neurons present two modes of activity: oscillatory and tonic (Canedo et al 1998 Neuroscience 84 603-17). The former is the basis of generating, in sleep and anaesthetized states, slow, delta and spindle rhythms under the control of the cerebral cortex (Mario et al 2000 Neuroscience 95 657-73). The latter is needed, during wakefulness, to process somesthetic information in real time. To study this behaviour we have developed the first realistic computational model of the cuneothalamic projection neurons. The modelling was guided by experimental recordings, which suggest the existence of hyperpolarization-activated inward currents, transient low- and high-threshold calcium currents, and calcium-activated potassium currents. The neuronal responses were simulated during (1) sleep, (2) transition from sleep to wakefulness and (3) wakefulness under both excitatory and inhibitory synaptic input. In wakefulness the model predicts a set of synaptically driven firing modes that could be associated with information processing strategies in the middle cuneate nucleus.
This report summarizes the presentations and discussions at a recent workshop entitled 'Functional Brain Connectivity', held in Dsseldorf, Germany. The aims of the workshop were to bring together researchers using different approaches to study connectivity in the brain, to enable them to share conceptual, mathematical and experimental ideas and to develop strategies for future work on functional integration. The main themes that emerged included: (1) the importance of anatomical knowledge in understanding functional interactions the brain; (2) the need to establish common definitions for terms used across disciplines; (3) the need to develop a satisfactory framework for inferring causality from functional imaging and electroencephalographic/magneto-encephalographic data; (4) the importance of analytic tools that capture the dynamics of neural interactions; and (5) the role of experimental paradigms that exploit the functional imaging of perturbations to cortical interactions.
A widely used signal processing paradigm is the state-space model. The state-space model is defined by two equations: an observation equation that describes how the hidden state or latent process is observed and a state equation that defines the evolution of the process through time. Inspired by neurophysiology experiments in which neural spiking activity is induced by an implicit (latent) stimulus, we develop an algorithm to estimate a state-space model observed through point process measurements. We represent the latent process modulating the neural spiking activity as a gaussian autoregressive model driven by an external stimulus. Given the latent process, neural spiking activity is characterized as a general point process defined by its conditional intensity function. We develop an approximate expectation-maximization (EM) algorithm to estimate the unobservable state-space process, its parameters, and the parameters of the point process. The EM algorithm combines a point process recursive nonlinear filter algorithm, the fixed interval smoothing algorithm, and the state-space covariance algorithm to compute the complete data log likelihood efficiently. We use a Kolmogorov-Smirnov test based on the time-rescaling theorem to evaluate agreement between the model and point process data. We illustrate the model with two simulated data examples: an ensemble of Poisson neurons driven by a common stimulus and a single neuron whose conditional intensity function is approximated as a local Bernoulli process.
Quite a number of structural and functional sex differences have been reported in the human hypothalamus and adjacent structures that may be related to not only reproduction, sexual orientation and gender identity, but also to the often pronounced sex differences in prevalence of psychiatric and neurological diseases. One of the recent focuses of interest in this respect is the possible beneficial effect of sex hormones on cognition in Alzheimer patients. The immunocytochemical localization of estrogen receptors (ER) alpha, beta and androgen receptors has shown that there are indeed numerous targets for sex hormones in the adult human brain. Observations in the infundibular nucleus have, however, indicated that in this brain area the hyperactivity resulting from a lack of estrogens in the menopause seems to protect females against Alzheimer changes, in contrast to males. It is thus quite possible that estrogen replacement therapy may, in these brain areas, lead to inhibition of neuronal metabolism and thus to the same proportion of Alzheimer changes as are observed in men. Knowledge about the functional sex differences in the brain and the effect of sex hormones on neuronal metabolism may thus provide clues not only for the possible beneficial effects of these hormones (e.g., on cognition or hypertension), but also on possible central side effects of estrogen replacement therapy.
Several lines of evidence indicate that Ca2+/calmodulin-stimulated isoforms of adenylyl cyclase (AC) are involved in long-term potentiation and in certain forms of learning. Recently, we found that training in different types of learning task differentially activates Ca2+-sensitive versus Ca2+-insensitive AC activities in certain brain regions, indicating that AC species other than those stimulated by Ca2+/calmodulin may play an important role in learning processes (Guillou, Rose, &amp; Cooper, 1999). Here, we report the effects of spatial reference memory training in a radial arm maze on the levels of AC1 and AC2 mRNA in the dorsal hippocampus of C57BL/6 mice. Acquisition of the task was associated with a learning-specific and time-dependent increase of AC1 mRNA expression selectively in subfields CA1-CA2. In contrast, AC2 mRNA levels were either reduced or not reliably affected depending on the stage of acquisition. Moreover, no significant changes in AC expression were observed either in the dorsal hippocampus of mice trained in a non-spatial (procedural) version of the task or in cortical regions of mice learning the spatial or procedural task. The regional specificity of these effects indicates that the formation of spatial and non-spatial memory requires distinct contributions from Ca2+-sensitive and Ca2+-insensitive AC in the hippocampus. It is suggested that downregulation of AC2 throughout all hippocampal subfields may play a permissive role during the acquisition of spatial learning whereas an upregulation of AC1 specifically in subfield CA1, may be critical to accurately encode, store or use spatial information.
Neurotrophic factors have been shown to potentiate necrotic neuronal death in cortical cultures. In this study we characterized the death induced by various oxidative insults and tested the effects of neurotrophic factors on that death. Treatment with fibroblast growth factor-2, neurotrophin-4, or insulin-like growth factor-1 potentiated neuronal cell death induced by iron-citrate (Fe) or buthionine sulfoximine (BSO), but not ethacrynic acid (EA). Neuronal death induced by each insult was blocked by the free radical scavenger, trolox. An analysis of the death indicated that Fe and BSO induced necrotic cell death, while EA induced apoptotic cell death. BSO and EA caused decreased cellular glutathione levels, whereas Fe had no effect on glutathione levels. Neurotrophic factors had no effect on the changes in glutathione. The results indicate that oxidative insults can induce either apoptotic or necrotic death and that the effects of neurotrophic factors are dependent on the type of cell death.
The marginal division (MrD) is a spindled-neurons consisted zone at the caudal border of the neostriatum in the mammalian brain and has been verified as contributing to associative learning and declarative memory in the rat and human with behavior and functional magnetic resonance imaging methods. It was proved to have functional connections with the limbic system. Whether the MrD has influence on the hippocampal long-term potentiation (LTP) was investigated in this study. LTP was induced from the dentate gyrus (DG) in the hippocampus by high-frequency stimulation (HFS) to the perforant path (PP). The amplitude of the population spike (PS) and the slope of the excitatory postsynaptic potential (EPSP) increased significantly to form LTP in the DG of the hippocampus after HFS of PP in normal and saline-injected control groups of rats. Lesions introduced in the MrD reduced significantly both the amplitude of PS and the slope of the EPSP following HFS of the PP. The results indicated that lesions in the MrD could attenuate LTP formation in the hippocampus. Our data suggest that the MrD might very possibly have excitatory functional influence on the hippocampus and therefore might influence the function of the hippocampus.
The aim of this study was to compare nonsurgical versus stereotactic aspiration of intracerebral hematomas in relation to clinical aspects, computed tomographic imaging features of the brain, laboratory parameters and specific risk factors that may influence the outcome in southeast Asian Malay patients. Fifty-five of the patients with intracerebral hemorrhage (ICH) underwent stereotactic aspiration and 57 did not. Analysis was done on risk factors, locations and treatments of ICH, and the final outcomes measured by the Glasgow Outcome Scale. A total of 112 patients were evaluated. Mean age was 52 years with ages ranging from 12 to 80 years. Hypertension was seen in 60.7% of patients with ICH. The mortality rate was 25% by 3 months. 58.9% had a poor final outcome, while 41.1% had a good outcome. The selected variables were incorporated into models generated by multiple logistic regression method analysis to define the significant predictors of outcome. Significant predictors of outcome were the Glasgow Coma Scale score on admission, the duration of surgery and the total volume of the hematoma. Significant predictors of mortality were high total white blood cell differential count, low plasma protein, and high plasma lactate dehydrogenase and brain edema. The study suggests that stereotactic aspiration of patients with ICH does not offer any definite advantage over conservative treatment.
Functional neuroimaging has provided a new view of activity in human visual cortex. There have been a series of interesting developments in understanding the relationship between the functional signals, particularly functional MRI, and basic measurements of action potentials and local field potentials. The new human neuro-imaging measurements have clarified some of the similarities and differences between the general organization of visual areas in human and macaque visual cortex, and there have been some interesting new results concerning cortical visual plasticity and dysfunction. The new fMRI focus on measurements of the human brain will drive new relationships between neurology and visual neuroscience that should help us learn much more about the neural basis of perception.
The pathophysiology of migraine is incompletely understood. Neurobiological and gene regulation studies and advanced brain imaging are providing new insights into migraine pathogenesis. Recent discoveries have shed light on the neuronal events mediating both the aura and the headache phases of migraine, identifying a cerebral cortical origin of migraine aura, susceptibility to attacks based on cortical hyperexcitability, and the trigeminovascular system and its central projections as the origin of headache. This review focuses on abnormal modulation of brain nociceptive systems leading to central sensitization that may explain prolonged headache of the migraine attack and shift of the migraine phenotype from episodic to chronic headache.
The person-to-person variability of drug response is a major problem in clinical practice and in drug development. It can lead to therapeutic failure or adverse drug reactions (ADRs) in individuals or subpopulation of patients. In addition to the high occurence of ADRs and the associated morbidity and mortality, substantial costs are incurred. Potential risk factors for drug inefficacy or toxicity include drug-drug interactions, the patient's age, renal and liver functions or other disease factors, and lifestyle variables such as smoking and alcohol consumption. In addition, it has become clear in recent years that genetic factors may also significantly modify drug responses or increase the risk for ADRs. Genetic variations in genes (polymorphisms) for drug-metabolizing enzymes, drug receptors, and drug transporters have been associated with individual variability in the efficacy and toxicity of drugs. It is now widely accepted that migraine is a polygenic and multifactorial disorders, thus considered to be a genetic complex disease. Genetic studies on migraine suggested a role of CACNA1A and DRD2 genes as susceptibility genes in this disorder.
Chronic daily headache (CDH) is an important problem for clinicians. It is frequent in tertiary care structures, although at present there is no clear consensus about definitions and operational criteria. In fact, CDH is a group of headache disorders that includes chronic migraine (CM). CDH usually evolves from an episodic headache form, which was migraine in most cases. Several psychopathological factors (e.g. psychiatric comorbidity, personality traits or stressful life events) and some somatic disorders (e.g. like arterial hypertension, allergic condition, sleep disturbances) are frequent in CM patients. Caffeine consumption, alcohol overuse and medication overuse (abortive drugs for migraine) could favour chronicity. The possible role of these factors remains poorly understood. Prospective studies and research about the pathophysiology of chronic pain will lead to a better understanding of CM.
In the International Headache Society (IHS) classification of 1988, chronic daily headache (CDH) forms are not exhaustively categorized. The forthcoming revision of the classification will include a number of CDH forms that had been reported prior to 1988 or have been identified after that date. In particular, chronic migraine will be added to the classification as a complication of migraine, provided that use of symptomatic drugs does not exceed 10 days per month. In addition to chronic cluster headache and chronic paroxysmal hemicrania, short-lasting unilateral neuralgiform headache with conjunctival injection and tearing (SUNCT) and hemicrania continua will be comprised among CDH forms with short-lived attacks. Hypnic headache will be included in Group 4 (&quot;Other primary headaches&quot;). No additions will be made to the new IHS classification for forms such as new daily persistent headache (NDPH) and cervicogenic headache as proposed by Sjaastad.
The nociceptive and the autonomic nervous systems interact at the levels of the periphery, spinal cord, brainstem, and forebrain. Spinal and visceral afferents provide converging information to spinothalamic neurons in the dorsal horn and to neurons of the nucleus tractus solitarius and parabrachial nuclei. These structures project to areas involved in reflex, homeostatic and behavioral control of autonomic outflow and nociception. Clinical and experimental observations on migraine suggest that a general hyperexcitability could develop along nociceptive trigeminal neurons allowing the activation of descending pathways that facilitate pain processing or the suppression of pathways that slow down pain transmission. Slowly progressive dysfunction of central pain systems secondary to the repetition of attacks of the originating headache has been implicated in transforming the process from an episodic to a chronic condition. This concept of an irritable focus in the central nervous system is currently known as &quot;central sensitization&quot; and is a characteristic feature of visceral pain. Considering primary headache as the result of the interactions between the nociceptive and autonomic systems (visceral pain) can help us to understand the complex pathophysiology of these disorders and to explore new treatments.
The transmission of pain-related information from the periphery to the cortex depends on signal integration at three levels of the nervous system: the spinal medulla, brainstem and telencephalon. In fulfilling its task of safeguarding human health, pain may develop as a result of damaged or altered primary afferent neurons (stimulus-dependent) or arise spontaneously without any apparent causal stimulus (stimulus-independent). Hyperalgesia (i.e. an exaggerated perception of pain after a painful stimulus) is due to an anomaly in the processing of nociceptive inputs in the central and peripheral nervous systems leading to the activation of the primary afferents by stimuli other than the usual stimuli.
Stroke in the young is rather rare. The absolute proportion of juvenile stroke is strongly linked to the structure of the population. In western European countries, with a high prevalence of old and very old people, less than 5% of strokes occur in subject under 45 years. The incidence is about 10 in 100,000 in several Italian studies. In Italy, about 3,300 new cases of juvenile stroke occur each year. Higher incidence rates have been found in the United States and developing countries. Subarachnoid hemorrhage prevails in young cases, compared with the total population of stroke patients. In the subgroup of patients with cerebral infarction, inter-atrial septum defects and inherited thrombophilic disorders seem to play an important role.
Presynaptic histamine H(3) receptors (H(3)R) regulate neurotransmitter release in the central nervous system, suggesting an important role for H(3) ligands in human diseases such as cognitive disorders, sleep disturbances, epilepsy, or obesity. Drug development for many of these human diseases relies upon rodent-based models. Although there is significant sequence homology between the human and rat H(3)Rs, some compounds show distinct affinity profiles. To identify the amino acids responsible for these species disparities, various mutant receptors were generated and their pharmacology studied. The N-terminal portion was shown to determine the species differences in ligand binding since a chimeric H(3)R containing N-terminal human and C-terminal rat receptor sequences exhibited similar pharmacology to the human receptor. Sequence analysis and molecular modeling studies suggested key amino acids at positions 119 and 122 in transmembrane region 3 play important roles in ligand recognition. Mutant receptors changing amino acids 119 or 122 of the human receptor to those in the rat improved ligand binding affinities and functional potencies of antagonist ligands, confirming the significant role that these amino acids play in species-related pharmacological differences. A model has been developed to elucidate the ligand receptor interactions for H(3)Rs, and pharmacological aspects of this model are described.
Previous investigations have shown that mGlu receptors would be involved in the amphetamine-induced motor response. However, data are somewhat controversial across studies where methodological protocols vary. The aim of the present study was to determine the involvement of mGlu receptors in the NAcc in the locomotor-activating properties of amphetamine in rats well habituated to their experimental environment, a condition known to modulate the motor response to amphetamine. Focal infusion of the group I mGlu receptor antagonist S-4-CPG, which has no effect on basal motor activity, virtually suppressed the locomotor response to amphetamine, while infusion of the group II mGlu receptor antagonist LY 341495 or the group III mGlu receptor agonist AP4, at the minimal dose that produces locomotor activation, reduced it by approximately a half. These effects were blocked by the group I mGlu receptor agonist DHPG, the group II mGlu receptor agonist APDC, and the group III mGlu receptor antagonist MPPG, respectively. These data confirm that mGlu receptors in the NAcc contribute to the psychostimulant motor effect of amphetamine. Results are discussed from the view of recent neuropharmacological studies that have defined the effects of these mGlu receptor ligands on basal motor activity and DA receptor agonists-induced locomotor responses in rats exposed to similar experimental procedures (Eur J Neuroscience 13 (2001) 2157; Neuropharmacology 41 (2001) 454; Eur J Neuroscience 13 (2001) 869). It is suggested that the contribution of mGlu receptors to the amphetamine-induced motor response may result mainly from their functional, either direct or indirect, interactions with D1-like receptors in the NAcc.
Metabotropic glutamate (mGlu) receptors are involved in several forms of synaptic plasticity in the rat hippocampus. Agonists which activate group I mGlu receptors induce slow-onset potentiation without prior tetanization in the hippocampal area CA1. Activation of group I mGlu receptors induces protein synthesis which may contribute to mGlu receptor-dependent forms of long-term plasticity. Calcium-binding proteins are widely considered to comprise key elements for synaptic plasticity. Therefore, we investigated whether the calcium sensor protein VILIP-1 is associated with group I mGlu receptor-mediated plasticity in the dentate gyrus (DG) in vivo.Application of either the group I and II mGlu agonist (1S,3R)-1-aminocyclopentane-1,3-dicarboxylate (ACPD) or the selective group I agonist (R,S)-3,5-dihydroxyphenylglycine (DHPG) resulted in slow-onset potentiation in the DG of adult rats. In hippocampal cell cultures both agonists elicited an enhanced expression of VILIP-1. In situ hybridization revealed strong hippocampal expression of VILIP-1 and intracerebral application of DHPG to adult rats significantly enhanced hippocampal VILIP-1 expression. The DHPG effects in both, hippocampal cultures and in vivo, were prevented by the group I mGlu receptor antagonist 4-Carboxyphenylglycine (4CPG). Calcium sensor proteins thus appear to be regulated by mGlu receptors in an activity-dependent manner. A specific role for group I mGlu receptors is evident. Furthermore, the sensor proteins may function as molecular switches for the long-term regulation of synaptic plasticity.
We report MRI findings in a patient with familial hemiplegic migraine (FHM) with repeated episodes of hemiparesis. FHM is caused by a penetrant autosomal dominant genetic mutation; several mutations have been genotyped, involving brain-expressed ion channels. We found cerebral oedema, dilatation of intracerebral vessels and decreased water diffusion contralateral to the hemiparesis, not respecting vascular territories, with subsequent complete resolution of both clinical and imaging abnormalities. These results are thought to be consistent with an underlying primary neuronal pathology with secondary vascular effects, as opposed to the traditional, primarily vascular, model of migraine aetiology.
Schizophrenia is a common and debilitating illness, characterized by chronic psychotic symptoms and psychosocial impairment that exact considerable human and economic costs. The literature in electronic databases as well as citations and major articles are reviewed with respect to the phenomenology, pathology, treatment, genetics and neurobiology of schizophrenia. Although studied extensively from a clinical, psychological, biological and genetic perspective, our expanding knowledge of schizophrenia provides only an incomplete understanding of this complex disorder. Recent advances in neuroscience have allowed the confirmation or refutation of earlier findings in schizophrenia, and permit useful comparisons between the different levels of organization from which the illness has been studied. Schizophrenia is defined as a clinical syndrome that may include a collection of diseases that share a common presentation. Genetic factors are the most important in the etiology of the disease, with unknown environmental factors potentially modulating the expression of symptoms. Schizophrenia is a complex genetic disorder in which many genes may be implicated, with the possibility of gene-gene interactions and a diversity of genetic causes in different families or populations. A neurodevelopmental rather than degenerative process has received more empirical support as a general explanation of the pathophysiology, although simple dichotomies are not particularly helpful in such a complicated disease. Structural brain changes are present in vivo and post-mortem, with both histopathological and imaging studies in overall agreement that the temporal and frontal lobes of the cerebral cortex are the most affected. Functional imaging, neuropsychological testing and clinical observation are also generally consistent in demonstrating deficits in cognitive ability that correlate with abnormalities in the areas of the brain with structural abnormalities. The dopamine and other neurotransmitter systems are certainly involved in the treatment or modulation of psychotic symptoms. These broad findings represent the distillation of a large body of disparate data, but firm and specific findings are sparse, and much about schizophrenia remains unknown.
Mutations in the parkin gene cause the majority of cases of familial-linked Parkinson's disease, and mounting evidence suggests that parkin may play a role in idiopathic disease. Previous reports suggest that parkin may respond to and relieve, via E3-ligase activity, cellular stress at the endoplasmic reticulum caused by the accumulation of unfolded proteins. However, parkin's relationship to the mammalian unfolded protein response is unclear. Here, we comprehensively evaluate endogenous parkin in SH-SY5Y neuroblastomas at the promoter, RNA, and protein levels in response to unfolded protein stress induced by tunicamycin. While we find strong up-regulation of genes linked to the unfolded protein stress pathway, we detect no significant changes in parkin. These data suggest a lack of association between parkin and the unfolded protein response in SH-SY5Y cells.
The expression of c-fos, a marker of neuronal activation, was examined in the gracile nucleus (GN) and nucleus of the solitary tract (NTS) after social interactions, including mating, between male and female prairie voles. In GN, mating, but not non-sexual interactions, induced similar significant increases in c-fos immunoreactivity in both males and females. The increased immunoreactivity was concentrated in medial and dorsal GN suggesting that expression was driven by stimulation of reproductive organs. In contrast, in NTS, mating-induced increases in c-fos expression occurred only in males. These results suggest that both GN and NTS comprise different functional components of mating circuitry and may contribute to pair bonding in monogamous voles.
cDNAs that encode beta subunits of voltage-dependent Ca(2+) channel were cloned from the optic lobe of the squid Loligo bleekeri. The subunits, LoCa(v)beta(1a) and LoCa(v)beta(1b) are 96% identical in amino acid sequence. The sole sequence differences are in the N-terminal region and in a five amino acid insertion in the central region of LoCa(v)beta(1b). RT-PCR revealed that LoCa(v)beta(1a) and LoCa(v)beta(1b) transcripts were expressed mainly in the optic lobe and stellate ganglion, and more weakly in mantle muscle, systemic heart, gill, branchial heart, stomach and liver. Coexpression of LoCa(v)beta(1a) or LoCa(v)beta(1b) with mammalian Ca(v)2.3 and alpha(2)/delta subunits in the Xenopus oocyte resulted in high-voltage-activated currents, and showed slow current inactivation and moderate steady-state inactivation. Comparison of the squid subunits with four mammalian beta subunits, beta(1b), beta(2a), beta(3) and beta(4), demonstrated that the modulatory effects of the beta subunits on steady-state inactivation kinetics were beta(3)&lt;beta(4) approximately beta(1b)&lt;LoCa(v)beta(1a) approximately LoCa(v)beta(1b)&lt;beta(2a). LoCa(v)beta(1a)-induced current amplitude was about two to four times higher than that of LoCa(v)beta(1b). Experiments with point mutants and chimeras suggest that potential PKC and CK2 phosphorylation sites in the N-terminal region of LoCa(v)beta(1b) affect the current amplitude reciprocally, and may be responsible for regulating current amplitude.
A central problem in motor research has been to understand how sensory signals are transformed to generate a goal-directed movement. This problem has been formulated as a set of coordinate transformations that begins with an extrinsic coordinate frame representing the spatial location of a target and ends with an intrinsic coordinate frame describing muscle activation patterns. Insight into this process of sensorimotor transformation can be gained by examining the coordinate frames of neuronal activity in interconnected regions of the brain. We recorded the activity of neurons in primary motor cortex (M1) and ventral premotor cortex (PMv) in a monkey trained to perform a task which dissociates three major coordinate frames of wrist movement: muscle, wrist joint, and an extrinsic coordinate frame. We found three major types of neurons in M1 and PMv. The first type was termed 'extrinsic-like'. The activity of these neurons appeared to encode the direction of movement in space independent of the patterns of wrist muscle activity or joint movement that produced the movements. The second type was termed 'extrinsic-like with gain modulation'. The activity of these neurons appeared to encode the direction of movement in space, but the magnitude (gain) of neuronal activity depended on the posture of the forearm. The third type was termed 'muscle-like' since their activity co-varied with muscle activity. The great majority of the directionally-tuned neurons in the PMv were classified as 'extrinsic-like' (48/59, 81%). A smaller group was classified as 'extrinsic-like with gain modulation' (7/59, 12%). In M1, the three types of neurons were more equally represented. Our results raise the possibility that cortical processing between M1 and PMv may contribute to a sensorimotor transformation between extrinsic and intrinsic coordinate frames. Recent modeling studies have demonstrated the computational plausibility of such a process.






Obesity is an embodiment of a multifactorial problem with several intermediates in its casual pathway. Virtually all who have written on obesity have responded to four inter-related factors: genetic, perinatal, environmental, and consumption-expenditure energy imbalance. The message to take home is that while a molecular description of each participant of the obesity machinery seems achievable in principle, a complex model describing all of them is currently beyond our grasp. That is why the eradication of the obesity epidemic is seen in a more precise neuropsychological description of what is wrong with each subset of patients. This review proposes that the neuropsychiatric experience might be the most fundamental for it could help to refocus the view of obesity from 'traditional' environmental factors and lifestyle changes to those dominated by a more 'individual-centred' perspective in which different modes of causal attribution are appropriate. This review advocates the idea of environmental dependency as a determinant of obesity, which has been an important idea in neurosciences for more than 30 years with roots in three important areas: psychological, neuropsychiatric, and experimental. The neuropsychology of obesity is yet to become part of today's agenda of obesity research.
We provide an overview of the current understanding of posttraumatic psychological problems, such as posttraumatic stress disorder, and the implications for maxillofacial surgeons and allied professionals. Posttraumatic stress disorder is not confined to combat veterans; it is common after all traumatic events-including maxillofacial injury-and can become chronic unless recognized and treated. The neurobiologic underpinnings of and the known vulnerability factors for posttraumatic stress disorder are increasingly understood, assisting the nursing and surgical staff in their assessments. Both psychological and pharmacologic treatments have been shown to have efficacy; nevertheless, intervention by mental health professionals will not be required by all.
Persistent pain is common following thoracotomy. A 64-year-old retired electrician with Type 2 diabetes presented with chest wall and abdominal pain 3 months following video-assisted thoracoscopic surgery (VATS). Postoperatively the patient had suffered pain despite a functioning thoracic epidural catheter. Following investigation, his persistent pain was due to diabetic thoracic radiculopathy (DTR). The disorder is characterized by pain, sensory loss, abdominal and thoracic muscle weakness in patients with diabetes. As in this patient, the pain and sensory loss usually resolve within one year after onset. The disorder may be distinguished from intercostal neuralgia based upon clinical and electromyographic features.
The regulation of cellular levels of adrenocorticotropin hormone (ACTH) in response to stimulated secretion was investigated to define the extent of cellular depletion of ACTH and subsequent increases to replenish ACTH levels in anterior pituitary cells (in primary culture). Treatment of cells with secretagogues for short-term incubation times (hours) resulted in extensive depletion of cellular ACTH. Corticotropin releasing factor (CRF) induced depletion of cellular levels of ACTH by 60-70% of control levels. The CRF-induced reduction of cellular ACTH was inhibited by the glucocorticoid dexamethasone. Phorbol myristate acetate (PMA), which stimulates protein kinase C (PKC), reduced ACTH levels by 50-60%. Forskolin, a stimulator of cAMP production, produced a moderate reduction in cellular ACTH. During prolonged incubation of cells (2 days) with these secretagogues, further reduction of ACTH levels by 70-80% was observed. However, increased cellular levels of ACTH occurred with continued treatment of cells with secretagogues, which provided nearly complete replenishment of cellular ACTH after 5 days treatment with secretagogues. Notably, the rising levels of cellular ACTH were inhibited by the aspartyl protease inhibitor acetyl-pepstatin A, and by the cysteine protease inhibitor E64d. These results demonstrate that depletion and recovery of ACTH levels are coordinately regulated, and that the increases in cellular levels of ACTH during the recovery phase involves participation of aspartyl and cysteine proteases. Thus, aspartyl and cysteine proteases may be involved in the cellular metabolism of ACTH.
Four experiments are reported in which the effects of peripheral cues on visual orienting were investigated. In the luminance condition, the cues consisted of a peripheral change in stimulus luminance. In the isoluminance condition, the cues consisted of an isoluminant color change, using the transient tritanopic technique. In Experiments 1 and 2, it was found that peripheral luminance cues captured attention, whereas peripheral isoluminance cues did not. In Experiments 3 and 4, the participants detected a peripheral target that was also isoluminant with the background. Under these conditions, it was found that both luminance and isoluminance cues captured attention. The results are discussed in terms of the roles of the dorsal and ventral streams in visual orienting, and it is concluded that our findings provide partial support for the contingent involuntary orienting hypothesis of C. Folk and colleagues.
The importance of testosterone for impulsive-like behavior is unclear. Here we studied the effect of testosterone administration during 6 and 14 days (separate experiments) with one, three and five testosterone-filled silastic capsules implanted subcutaneously on shock-induced behavioral inhibition and on flunitrazepam-induced disinhibition in a modified Vogel's drinking conflict model in rats. Alleviation of shock-induced behavioral inhibition has been suggested to reflect impulsive-like behavior and/or anxiolysis. Treatment with the highest testosterone dose used for 6 (Experiment 1) and 14 (Experiment 3) days increased the number of shocks accepted. Testosterone treatment affected serum levels of testosterone and accessory sex organ weights. Flunitrazepam induced behavioral disinhibition in both testosterone-treated (for 14 days) and sham-treated rats. Moreover, testosterone treatment for 14 days resulted in enhanced GABA-induced 36Cl- uptake into synaptoneurosomes as compared to controls. In conclusion, testosterone produces behavioral disinhibition and may enhance brain GABAA receptor function.
Dopamine D3 receptors have been implicated in the behavioral effects of abused drugs including ethanol. The present experiments characterized the acquisition of ethanol-induced place conditioning and ethanol self-administration in D3 knockout (D3 KO) mice compared with C57BL/6J (C57) mice. For place conditioning, D3 KO and C57 mice received six pairings of a tactile stimulus with ethanol (3 g/kg i.p.). D3 KO mice showed higher basal locomotor activity levels in comparison with the C57 mice during conditioning. Ethanol produced similar magnitudes of conditioned place preference in both genotypes. In a two-bottle drinking procedure, mice of each genotype received 24 h access to water and either 3% or 10% v/v ethanol. No difference was noted between D3 KO and C57 mice in either consumption or preference. In an operant self-administration procedure using 23 h sessions, D3 KO and C57 mice received access to 10% v/v ethanol on an FR4 schedule of reinforcement, food on an FR1 schedule of reinforcement and water from a sipper tube. D3 KO and C57 mice had similar response rates of ethanol and food as well as similar water intakes. Overall, these results indicate that elimination of D3 receptor function has little influence on ethanol reward or intake.
Many studies have shown interactions between mu-opiates and the mesolimbic dopamine (DA) system. Mu-opiate receptor antagonists have been reported to either increase or decrease the rate of cocaine self-administration, and the interpretation of these data has been difficult. In an attempt to further characterize and localize the effect of opiate receptor blockade on the reinforcing effects of cocaine, the mu-opiate irreversible antagonist beta-funaltrexamine (betaFNA) was administered locally to different regions of the mesocorticolimbic system. Microinjection of betaFNA into the ventral tegmental area (VTA) or the nucleus accumbens (NAcc) had no effect on cocaine self-administration under a fixed ratio (FR) schedule of reinforcement. However, blockade of opiate receptors in both brain regions did attenuate responding for cocaine maintained by a progressive ratio (PR) schedule. Administration of betaFNA in the dorsal striatum had no effect under either schedule condition. The present findings suggest that endogenous opiate systems within the mesolimbic DA system modulate the reinforcing effects of cocaine; however, this modulation seems to be schedule dependent.
The emergence of a conditioned cocaine-induced hyperlocomotion was examined in C57BL/6J mice using a procedure that has not been used previously. Two days after a session of preexposure to the test chambers under saline, a first group of mice (cocaine-cued) received five once-daily injections of 10-mg/kg s.c. cocaine every other day (on the odd days of the chronic treatment period) and a saline injection on the 5 days following each cocaine injection day (on the even days of the treatment period), in all cases before being placed in the test chamber. Another group of mice (saline-cued) received 10 injections of saline on both the even and the odd days in the same context, and a third group of mice (cocaine-uncued) received five injections of saline on the even days in the test context and five injections of cocaine on the odd days in an alternative context. On the odd days sessions, the cocaine-cued group showed significant repeated increases in locomotion without behavioural sensitisation being induced, whereas the saline-cued levels of locomotion remained on baseline levels. On the first even session, the three groups did not differ from each other and showed lower levels of locomotion than on the preexposure session. During the two following even sessions, the cocaine-cued group showed an increase in locomotion that levelled off on the two remaining sessions, whereas the saline-cued and the cocaine-uncued groups (which presented comparable values) exhibited significantly lower levels of locomotion. That pattern of successive placebo responses resembles the typical S-shaped development of a Pavlovian conditioned response, albeit the increase described here was quite rapid. The protocol used here may provide an additional method for the experimental analysis of stimulant-induced conditioned placebo activity.
A model of two coupled phase oscillators is presented, where the oscillators are subject to random forces and are stimulated at different times. Transient phase dynamics, synchronization, and desynchronization, which are stimulus locked (i.e., tightly time locked to a repetitively administered stimulus), are investigated. Complex coordinated responses, in terms of a noise-induced switching across trials between qualitatively different responses, may occur when the two oscillators are reset close to an unstable fixed point of their relative phases. This can be achieved with an appropriately chosen delay between the two stimuli. The switching of the responses shows up as a coordinated cross-trial (CT) response clustering of the oscillators, where the two oscillators produce two different pairs of responses. By varying noise amplitude and coupling strength we observe a stochastic resonance and a coupling-mediated resonance of the CT response clustering, respectively. The presented data analysis method makes it possible to detect such processes in numerical and experimental signals. Its time resolution is enormous, since it is only restricted by the time resolution of the preprocessing necessary for extracting the phases from experimental data. In contrast, standard data analysis tools applied across trials relative to stimulus onset, such as CT averaging (where an ensemble of poststimulus responses is simply averaged), CT standard deviation, and CT cross correlation, fail in detecting complex coordinated responses and lead to severe misinterpretations and artifacts. The consequences for the analysis of evoked responses in medicine and neuroscience are significant and are discussed in detail.
Tanshinones are the major lipid soluble pharmacological constituents of Danshen, the dried roots of Salvia miltiorrhiza Bunge (Labiatae), a well known traditional Chinese medicine used for the treatment of cerebrovascular diseases including stroke. Potential neuroprotective effects of tanshinones IIA (TsIIA) and IIB (TsIIB) were examined in adult mice subjected to transient focal cerebral ischemia caused by middle cerebral artery occlusion (MCAo). Our results revealed that TsIIA (16 mg/kg) readily penetrated the blood brain barrier reaching a peak concentration of 0.41 nmol/g brain wet weight 60 minutes after intraperitoneal injection and decreased slowly over several hours. Twenty-four hours after middle cerebral artery occlusion, brain infarct volume was reduced by 30% and 37% following treatment with TsIIA and TsIIB, respectively. The reduction in brain infarct volume was accompanied by a significant decrease in the observed neurological deficit. Tanshinones or other structurally related compounds may have potential for further development as neuroprotective drugs.
This article reviews functional neuroimaging studies of priming, a behavioural change associated with the repeated processing of a stimulus. Using the haemodynamic techniques of functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) and positron emission tomography (PET), priming-related effects have been observed in numerous regions of the human brain, with the specific regions depending on the type of stimulus and the manner in which it is processed. The most common finding is a decreased haemodynamic response for primed versus unprimed stimuli, though priming-related response increases have been observed. Attempts have been made to relate these effects to a form of implicit or &quot;unconscious&quot; memory. The priming-related decrease has also been used as a tool to map the brain regions associated with different stages of stimulus-processing, a method claimed to offer superior spatial resolution. This decrease has a potential analogue in the stimulus repetition effects measured with single-cell recording in the non-human primate. The paradigms reviewed include word-stem completion, masked priming, repetition priming of visual objects and semantic priming. An attempt is made to relate the findings within a &quot;component process&quot; framework, and the relationship between behavioural, haemodynamic and neurophysiological data is discussed. Interpretation of the findings is not always clear-cut, however, given potential confounding factors such as explicit memory, and several recommendations are made for future neuroimaging studies of priming.
The nature versus nurture debate has recently resurfaced with the emergence of the field of developmental molecular neurobiology. The questions associated with &quot;nature&quot; have crystallized into testable hypotheses regarding patterns of gene expression during development, and those associated with &quot;nurture&quot; have given over to activity-dependent cellular mechanisms that give rise to variable phenotypes in developing nervous systems. This review focuses on some of the features associated with complex brains and discusses the evolutionary and activity-dependent mechanisms that generate these features. These include increases in the size of the cortical sheet, changes in cortical domain and cortical field specification, and the activity-dependent intracellular mechanisms that regulate the structure and function of neurons during development. We discuss which features are likely to be genetically mediated, which features are likely to be regulated by activity, and how these two mechanisms act in concert to produce the wide variety of phenotypes observed for the mammalian neocortex. For example, the size of the cortical sheet is likely to be under genetic control, and regulation of cell-cycle kinetics through upregulation of genes such as beta-catenin can account for increases in the size of the cortical sheet. Similarly, intrinsic signaling genes or gene products such as Wnt, Shh, Fgf2, Fgf8 and BMP may set up a combinatorial coordinate system that guides thalamic afferents. Changes in peripheral morphology that regulate patterned activity are also likely to be under genetic control. Finally, the intracellular machinery that allows for activity-dependent plasticity in the developing CNS may be genetically regulated, although the specific phenotype they generate are not. On the other hand, aspects of neocortical organization such as sensory domain assignment, the size and shape of cortical fields, some aspects of connectivity, and details of functional organization are likely to be activity-dependent. Furthermore, the role of genes versus activity, and their interactions, may be different for primary fields versus non-primary fields.
Previous studies in crosses between the C57BL/6J (B6) and the DBA/2J (D2) mice have implicated a role of the genes encoding for the 67- and 65-kDa isoforms of the glutamate decarboxylase (Gad1 and Gad2) in the manifestation and severity of multiple ethanol-related traits such as acute ethanol withdrawal severity [Buck, K.J., Metten, P., Belknap, J.K., Crabbe, J.C., 1997. Quantitative trait loci involved in genetic predisposition to acute alcohol withdrawal in mice. J. Neurosci. 17, 3946-3955], ethanol preference [Phillips, T.J., Belknap, J.K., Buck, K.J., Cunningham, C.L., 1998. Genes on mouse chromosomes 2 and 9 determine variation in ethanol consumption. Mamm. Genome 9, 936-941] and ethanol-induced locomotion [Demarest, K., McCaughran Jr., J., Mahjubi, E., Cipp, L., Hitzemann, R., 1999. Identification of an acute ethanol response quantitative trait locus on mouse chromosome 2. J. Neurosci. 19, 549-561]. Strain-specific sequencing experiments as well as gene expression studies in drug-naive and ethanol-treated D2 and B6 mice were carried out. The Gad1 sequence was similar, the Gad2 cDNA carried only a silent polymorphism (1017 G&gt;C) between both strains. In addition, no significant GAD65 or GAD67 expression differences were detected in either drug-nai;ve or acute ethanol withdrawn animals by Western blot experiments. Therefore, these results do not support the hypothesis of an involvement of Gad1 or Gad2 in the pathophysiology of acute ethanol withdrawal severity and the other ethanol related traits.
In order to compare the proteomes from different cell types of pituitary adenomas for our long-term goal to clarify the molecular mechanisms that participate in the formation of pituitary adenoma, and to detect any tumor-related marker for an &quot;early-stage&quot; diagnosis, the two-dimensional gel electrophoresis (2-DE) reference map of a pituitary adenoma tissue proteome is described here. A vertical, two-dimensional (2-D) polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis system and PDQuest image analysis software have been used to provide a high level of between-gel reproducibility and to accurately array each protein expressed in a pituitary adenoma tissue. Mass spectrometry (matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization-time of flight MALDI-TOF and liquid chromatography-electrospray ionization-quadrupole-ion trap LC-ESI-Q-IT) and protein databases were used to characterize each protein in the 2-D gel. The results demonstrate that a good reproducibility of the 2-D gel pattern was attained. The position deviation of matched spots among four 2-D gels was 1.95 +/- 0.45 mm in the isoelectric focusing direction, and 1.70 +/- 0.53 mm in the sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis direction. A total of ca. 1000 protein spots were separated by 2-DE, and 135 protein spots that represent 111 proteins were characterized with mass spectrometry (96 spots for MALDI-TOF, 39 spots for LC-ESI-Q-IT). The characterized proteins include pituitary hormones, cellular signals, enzymes, cellular-defense proteins, cell-structure proteins, transport proteins, etc. Those proteins were located in the cytoplasmic, cellular membrane, mitochondrial, endoplasmic reticulum, nuclear, ribonucleosome, extracellular fractions, or were secreted in plasma, etc. Those identified proteins contribute to a functional profile of the pituitary adenoma proteome. These data will be used to expand the proteome database of the human pituitary, which can be accessed in the website http://www.utmem.edu /proteomics.

After the classic serial/parallel dichotomy of visual search mechanisms has been increasingly doubted, we investigated what search mechanisms are used between the two poles termed &quot;pop-out&quot; and &quot;strictly serial search&quot; in an overt feature search paradigm. Since reaction time slopes do not contain sufficient information for this purpose, we developed a novel technique for analyzing reaction times. Individual reaction times are modeled as sums of the durations of successive search steps. Model parameters are task characteristics (similarity, number and arrangement of target and distractors) and processing characteristics of the participant (e.g., attention dwell and shift durations). In Experiment 1, several model variants were fitted numerically to empirical reaction times. The best fitting model suggested that more than one item can be processed in a single fixation, movement of attention is abrupt and not continuous, and even in pop out search, attention is often explicitly moved to the target. In Experiment 2, we measured the central model parameter, the so-called range of attention, more directly and thereby validated the model. The model provides an explanation for the strong variation in the slope of reaction time functions, which is not based on an explicit distinction between parallel and serial search processes.
The hormonal response to the serotonin releasing agent/uptake inhibitor fenfluramine has been used as an indicator of central serotonin system function. The serotonergic system plays an important role in the etiology and pathogenesis of mood disorders. We compared the prolactin response to fenfluramine administration in unipolar depressed patients (major depressive disorder), depressed patients with bipolar disorder, and healthy controls. We found a trend towards a blunted prolactin response in depressed patients compared to healthy controls, after controlling for sex, family history, family history-by-gender interaction, and baseline levels. There was no significant difference between unipolar and bipolar patients in the baseline prolactin levels or the response to the fenfluramine administration. We also found a negative correlation between aggression and impulsivity scores and prolactin responses in subgroup with unipolar but not bipolar depression. Female patients with unipolar depression who had first-degree relatives with unipolar depression and normal controls had significantly higher prolactin responses than female patients with unipolar depression who did not have first-degree relatives with unipolar depression. The lack of difference in the response to fenfluramine administration between unipolar and bipolar depressed patients may indicate that overall serotonergic function in unipolar and bipolar depressed patients is similarly impaired.
Administration of bacterial endotoxin (lipopolysachharide; LPS) elevates proinflammatory cytokines, such as interleukin-1beta (IL-1beta) and IL-6, and activates the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis. Corticosterone (CORT), the glucocorticoid (GC) effector hormone of the HPA axis in rats, inhibits both proinflammatory cytokine production/release and activity of the HPA axis itself. Exposure to chronic or repeated stressors often induces resistance to the effects of GCs. The following experiments were conducted to test the hypothesis that an acute stressor, inescapable tailshock (IS), alters responsivity of the HPA axis and proinflammatory cytokine system to dexamethasone (DEX), a synthetic GC. First, we examined the ability of various doses of DEX to suppress proinflammatory cytokine and HPA activity in response to LPS challenge 24 h after either home cage (HCC) or IS treatment. Upon finding resistance to DEX in IS animals, we examined the duration of the altered response to DEX by testing animals 1, 4 and 21 days after IS. To test whether IS animals were selectively resistant to the suppressive effects of DEX on the response to LPS, the ability of DEX to suppress HPA activity in response to a non-inflammatory stressor, exposure to an elevated &quot;pedestal&quot;, was assessed. Again, DEX resistance was observed in IS animals. Finally, we examined whether changes in the responsivity to DEX were dependent upon the controllability of the stressor. The induction of DEX resistance was independent of the degree of behavioral control that the animal had over the stressor. Thus, a single session of IS induces DEX resistance of both HPA axis and cytokine responses measured in vivo.




The release of serotonin (5-HT) at serotonergic nerve terminals is regulated by 5-HT(1B) autoreceptors. Several studies have reported that the effects of selective 5-HT reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) on extracellular 5-HT are augmented by 5-HT(1B) receptor antagonists, whereas administration of these antagonists alone do not enhance 5-HT levels. It has been suggested that 5-HT(1B) receptors have low basal endogenous activity and therefore elevated endogenous 5-HT levels are needed to elicit an effect of 5-HT(1B) receptor antagonists. To test this hypothesis, different strategies were used to enhance 5-HT levels in the rat frontal cortex to assess the effects of locally applied NAS-181, a new selective 5-HT(1B) receptor antagonist. Blockade of 5-HT(1B) receptors with NAS-181 dose dependently augmented 5-HT levels when 5-HT levels were enhanced by a SSRI. No additional effect of NAS-181 on 5-HT output was found when 5-HT levels were enhanced by KCl depolarization-induced release or by preventing degradation of 5-HT with the monoamine oxidase inhibitor pargyline. In the presence of fluvoxamine, the increased 5-HT release evoked by KCl depolarization was augmented by NAS-181, supporting the idea that blockade of 5-HT transporters is necessary to measure an effect of 5-HT(1B) receptor blockade. In conclusion, the results provide circumstantial evidence that the effect of a 5-HT(1B) receptor antagonist depends on extracellular 5-HT levels, but strongly suggest that additional 5-HT reuptake inhibition is required to detect any effect of 5-HT(1B) receptor antagonist on 5-HT levels by in vivo microdialysis.
In the auditory oddball paradigm, the frequent occurrence of a sound (the &quot;standard&quot;) forms the basis of deviance detection. The incoming sounds are compared with the cortical representation of the standard and those sounds that do not match it elicit the mismatch negativity (MMN) event-related brain potential. Here we address the issue of whether the relative probability of the sounds in a sequence was a critical factor influencing which sounds would be represented as standards in the deviant comparison process. One frequent (F1) and two infrequent (D1 and D2) sounds that differed only in duration were presented in a sequence. D1 occurred proportionally as frequently with respect to D2 as F1 occurred with respect to D1. If the proportional relationship of sounds were critical then D1 could serve as a &quot;standard&quot; to D2 and thus D2 should elicit two MMNs. However, D2 elicited MMN only with respect to F1. This result as well as those obtained in two control conditions suggests that &quot;standards&quot; are not established on the basis of relative probability; they emerge as a result of global characteristics, the longer-term context, of the sound sequence.
We addressed the question of whether the mismatch negativity (MMN) event-related potential reflects an attention-independent process. Previous studies have shown that the MMN response to intensity deviation was significantly reduced or even abolished when attention was highly focused on a concurrent sound channel, whereas no conclusive evidence of attentional sensitivity has been obtained for frequency deviation. We tested a new hypothesis suggesting that competition between detection of identical deviations in attended and unattended channels and the biasing of this competition induced by the subject's task account for the observed MMN effects. In a fast-paced dichotic paradigm, we set up competition for frequency MMN and removed it for intensity MMN. We found that frequency MMN was now abolished in the unattended channel, whereas the amplitude of the intensity MMN was unaffected. These results support the competition hypothesis and suggest that selective attention in and of itself does not affect the MMN. Top-down processes can determine what information reaches the deviance-detection process when changes in multiple channels vie for the same MMN resource and one of the competing changes is relevant for the subject's task.
Electrophysiological correlates of change detection and change blindness were studied in 12 observers. The ERP difference between detected changes and undetected changes was considered an electrophysiological correlate of visual awareness. Two distinct electrophysiological responses correlated with the awareness of change. First, awareness was associated with a negative amplitude shift at posterior sites around 200 ms after the change in the stimulus. The latency of the negative shift varied as a function of the task difficulty and the speed of becoming aware of the change. Second, ERPs to detected changes became more positive as compared with undetected changes around 400 ms after the change in the stimulus, peaking at parietal sites. We suggest that the earlier negativity is associated with a change in the content of visual awareness, whereas the later positivity may reflect more global processes needed in decision making and action planning.
In chronic experiments on alert rabbits, the formation of short-latency positive and negative potentials preceding initial responses, in wide range of light intensities in visual structures, were revealed. The observed potentials were registered in retina under light intensity of 100-120 J. In corpus geniculatum laterale, colliculus superior and visual cortex, they were initiated under 30 J, 15-50 J and 50 J, respectively. The relations of these potentials to light stimulus intensities were studied.



Monoaminergic transmission has been implicated in the pathophysiology of schizophrenia. We investigated a putative functional promoter polymorphism in the monoamine oxidase A (MAOA) gene in schizophrenic patients (n=133) and control subjects (n=377). In men, there was an association between the less efficiently transcribed alleles and schizophrenia (chi(2)=4.01, df=1, p&lt;0.05). In women, no significant differences were found. The present results support the involvement of the MAOA gene in men with schizophrenia in the investigated Swedish population but should be interpreted with caution until replicated.
An absent response to the niacin skin test has been reported to occur in about 80% of schizophrenic patients, as compared to 20% of healthy individuals. Niacin provokes redness in skin caused by a capillary vasodilatation mediated by prostaglandins. The metabolism of prostaglandins is regulated by the enzyme phospholipase A2 (PLA2). Several studies have reported increased PLA2 activity in schizophrenia. In this study we investigated the relationship between niacin response and PLA2 activity in 38 drug-free schizophrenic patients and in 28 healthy controls. Twenty-two of these patients were reevaluated after 8 weeks under treatment with new generation antipsychotic drugs. Niacin response was absent in 23% of the schizophrenic patients and in 14% in controls (n.s.). PLA2 activity was higher in schizophrenics than in controls (344+/-115 vs. 290+/-71 pmol/ml/min; p=0.03). Patients with absent response to niacin had the highest PLA2 activity as compared to those with positive response (426+/-155 vs. 319+/-111; p=0.02). After 8 weeks on antipsychotic treatment, PLA2 activity was reduced (355+/-115 before, 267+/-39 after, p=0.001) and 4 out of 13 patients with absent response to niacin converted to positive. The reduction of PLA2 activity in these patients was higher than in patients who remained with absent response (36% vs. 23%). Our data support the findings that absent response to niacin is more frequent in schizophrenic than in healthy individuals although the magnitude of the difference was smaller than that reported in the literature. The relationship between absent response to niacin in schizophrenia and increased PLA2 activity suggests further that the skin test may be useful to easily identify a subgroup of patients with a disordered phospholipid metabolism.
Coenzyme Q10 (CoQ10, ubiquinone) is a highly mobile electron carrier in the mitochondrial respiratory chain that also acts as an antioxidant. We evaluated the neuroprotective efficacy of CoQ10 against fatality in an experimental model of endotoxemia that mimics systemic inflammatory response syndrome using a novel water-soluble formulation of this quinone derivative. Experiments were conducted in adult male Sprague-Dawley rats that were maintained under propofol anesthesia. Intravenous administration of Escherichia coli lipopolysaccharide (LPS; 30 mg/kg) induced progressive hypotension, with death ensuing within 4 h. The sequence of cardiovascular events during this LPS-induced endotoxemia can be divided into a reduction (Phase I), followed by an augmentation (Phase II; &quot;pro-life&quot; phase) and a secondary decrease (Phase III; &quot;pro-death&quot; phase) in the power density of the vasomotor components (0-0.8 Hz) of systemic arterial pressure signals. Pretreatment by microinjection bilaterally of CoQ10 (1 or 2 microg) into the rostral ventrolateral medulla (RVLM), the medullary origin of sympathetic vasomotor tone, significantly diminished mortality, prolonged survival time, and reduced the slope or magnitude of the LPS-induced hypotension. CoQ10 pretreatment also significantly prolonged the duration of and augmented the total power density of the vasomotor components of systemic arterial pressure signals in Phase II endotoxemia. The increase in superoxide anion production induced by LPS at the RVLM during Phases II and III endotoxemia was also significantly blunted. We conclude that CoQ10 provides neuroprotection against fatality during experimental endotoxemia by reducing superoxide anion production at the RVLM, whose neuronal activity is intimately related to the &quot;life-and-death&quot; process.






Epigallocatechin-3-gallate (EGCG), a component of green tea, inhibits human platelet aggregation and cytosolic [Ca(2+)](c) increases more strongly when these processes are induced by thrombin than by the non-proteolytic thrombin receptor activating peptide (TRAP), thromboxane mimetic U46619, or fluoroaluminate. In line with the previously demonstrated EGCG anti-proteolytic activity, a marked inhibition on aggregation is obtained by pre-incubation of thrombin with EGCG prior to addition to cellular suspension. The catechin also reduces cellular Ca(2+) influx following thapsigargin-induced calcium emptying of endoplasmic reticulum, and the agonist-promoted cellular protein tyrosine phosphorylation. Both tyrosine kinases Syk and Lyn, immuno-precipitated from stimulated platelets, are greatly inhibited upon cellular pre-incubation with EGCG, which also inhibits the in vitro auto-phosphorylation and exogenous activity of these two enzymes purified from rat spleen. Both thrombin-induced aggregation and [Ca(2+)](c) increase are reduced in platelets from rats that drank green tea solutions. It is concluded that EGCG inhibits platelet activation, by hindering the thrombin proteolytic activity, and by reducing the agonist-induced [Ca(2+)](c) increase through inhibition of Syk and Lyn activities.
How does conscious perception evolve following stimulus presentation? The idea that perception relies on discrete processing epochs has been often considered, but never widely accepted. The alternative, a continuous translation of the external world into explicit perception, although more intuitive and subjectively appealing, cannot satisfactorily account for a large body of psychophysical data. Cortical and thalamocortical oscillations in different frequency bands could provide a neuronal basis for such discrete processes, but are rarely analyzed in this context. This article reconciles the unduly abandoned topic of discrete perception with current views and advances in neuroscience.
Post-mitotic neurons and heart muscle cells undergo apoptotic cell death in a variety of acute and chronic degenerative diseases. The intrinsic pathway of apoptosis involves the permeabilization of mitochondrial membranes, which leads to the release of protease and nuclease activators, and to bioenergetic failure. Mitochondrial permeabilization is induced by a variety of pathologically relevant second messengers, including reactive oxygen species, calcium, stress kinases and pro-apoptotic members of the Bcl-2 family. Several pharmacological agents act on mitochondria to prevent the permeabilization of their membranes, thereby inhibiting apoptosis. Such agents include inhibitors of the permeability transition pore complex (in particular ligands of cyclophilin D), openers of mitochondrial ATP-sensitive or Ca(2+)-activated K(+) channels, and proteins from the Bcl-2 family engineered to cross the plasma membrane. In addition, manipulations that modulate the expression or activity of mitochondrial uncoupling proteins can prevent the death of post-mitotic cells. Such agents hold promise for use in clinical neuroprotection and cardioprotection.
The neural circuitry of the spinal cord is capable of solving some of the most complex problems in motor control. Therefore, spinal mechanisms are much more sophisticated than many neuroscientists give them credit for. A key issue in motor control is how sensory inputs direct and inform motor output,--that is, the sensorimotor process. Other major issues involve the actual control of the motor apparatus. In general, there are at least three basic requirements for motor control: the transformations that map information from sensory to motor coordinates, the specification of individual muscle activations to achieve a kinematic goal, and the control of multiple degrees of freedom. Here, we make the case that the vertebrate spinal cord has the capacity to solve each of these problems to a degree that is relevant for normal behavior.
How the dendritic branching patterns of different neurons are specified is a fascinating question in developmental neurobiology. This question can now be addressed in detail in Drosophila, owing to technological advances that allow in vivo labeling of the dendrites of identifiable neurons. Recent genetic analyses in flies have uncovered several molecules, including transcription factors, cytoskeleton-associated proteins and membrane receptor-like molecules, that provide a glimpse into the complex regulatory network that controls dendritic morphogenesis.
Efficient and accurate synaptic transmission requires proper localization of numerous signaling proteins in the synaptic membrane. At the neuromuscular junction, the nicotinic ACh receptor mediates postsynaptic depolarization, and acetylcholinesterase (AChE) terminates this process by hydrolyzing ACh. The mechanism by which the nerve directs receptor localization is understood in considerable detail; AChE clustering, by contrast, has received much less attention. Now, in a recent paper in Nature Neuroscience, the laboratories of Yoshiko Yamada and Richard Rotundo report that AChE clustering at the postsynaptic membrane requires perlecan, which binds both AChE and dystroglycan.
Binding of neurotrophins to p75(NTR) was recently identified as a positive signal for myelination by Schwann cells. This new finding adds yet another distinct biological role to the growing list of functions of p75(NTR) in the nervous system and identifies a novel target for promoting remyelination in peripheral neuropathies or post-nerve-injury.
Not so long ago, the auditory cortex took a back seat to the visual system in neuroscience research. With some notable exceptions outside the primate order, such as the classic work on echo-locating bats, owls and birdsong, the auditory cortex has been overlooked: only a few investigators were involved in understanding the structure and function of the monkey auditory cortex, and even fewer had the means to study its human counterpart. This situation has undergone a dramatic change in the past decade or so. Spurred on by advances in primate neurophysiology and neuroanatomy, and especially by developments in functional neuroimaging, substantial progress is now being made into understanding how the human auditory cortical system works.
Whole-cell recordings of tiger salamander ganglion cells were obtained using a superfused retinal slice preparation. Membrane current fluctuations were recorded under voltage-clamp conditions with cells usually held at -70 mV. Current fluctuations at rest (Mg2+ = 1 mM) were reduced by adding D-2-amino-7-phosphonoheptanoate (D-AP7). Resting fluctuations were increased by adding N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) or by removing extracellular Mg2+. These increased fluctuations were blocked by D-AP7. Blocking NMDA receptors under control conditions also reduced a tonic inward current by -1 to -15 pA. Fluctuation analysis of current noise shows that the noise power spectrum measured in the presence of NMDA is similar to that measured under Mg(2+)-free conditions. We conclude that NMDA receptors are active in cells held at -70 mV even in the presence of 1 mM Mg2+. We believe this activation is due to the presence of endogenous glutamate in the retina. The observations of this study strongly suggest that NMDA receptors contribute to the resting noise and conductance properties of retinal ganglion cells. Our results suggest NMDA receptors are activated by an ambient level of extracellular glutamate whose source has yet to be determined.
A review of the neurophysiological literature suggests that the magnocellular pathway has adequate spatial-frequency and contrast sensitivity to perceive text under normal contrast conditions (&gt;10%) and also is suppressed by red light. Results from three experiments involving color and reading show that red light impairs reading performance under normal luminance contrast conditions. However in a fourth experiment, isoluminant color text, designed to selectively activate the parvocellular pathway, is easier to read under red light. These discrepant results suggest that the magnocellular pathway is the dominant visual pathway for text perception. Implications for reading models and developmental dyslexia are discussed.
This study compared visual search strategies in patterns of radially moving dots (simulating self-motion) to those used in matched stationary displays (radial patterns of lines). To control for differences in target visibility, 75% detection thresholds for deviating motion direction and line orientation, respectively, were determined as a function of eccentricity in Experiment 1. These individual thresholds were used to study saccadic parameters in Experiment 2, when subjects searched for targets in the stationary and moving patterns. Despite similarities in search performance, visual search in moving radial patterns was characterised by fewer saccades, longer initial fixation times, and shorter saccadic amplitudes after the initial saccade than during search in a matched stationary radial pattern. These results suggest that detection performance alone cannot explain saccadic search behaviour, and that different search strategies may be used in moving compared to stable environments.
A superposition masking and summation to threshold paradigm was employed before and after unmasked Vernier acuity training to measure sensory changes of offset analysing mechanisms. Masking functions show a uniform downward translation after training and detection data reveal higher sensitivities to compound Gabor gratings in the post-test. These findings confirm the existence of learning related changes at early levels of information processing, but the results cannot be explained by neural fine tuning of offset analysing mechanisms. The data are consistent with the idea of task dependent broadening of orientation tuned mechanisms responsible for detecting small Vernier offsets.
Systemic ingestion of vanadate, a nonspecific inhibitor of tyrosine phosphatases, doubles wound breaking strength, enhances the packing of collagen fibers, and prevents the appearance of myofibroblasts in granulation tissue. Will the local application of vanadate mimic the systemic effects? Pairs of polyvinyl alcohol sponges, each with a central reservoir and attached injection port, were subcutaneously implanted in rats. Daily, one implant received 0.2 ml of saline and the other received 0.2 ml of 0.03 mM vanadate in saline. On day 7, harvested sponges had equivalent wet weights. The vanadate-treated sponges had fibroblasts separated by connective tissue, with a more intense birefringence of the collagen fibers. Transmission electron microscopy showed collagen more uniformly packed in the vanadate treated sponges where collagen fibers were equally spaced and had equal diameters. By immunohistology, myofibroblasts, defined by the expression of alpha-smooth muscle actin within stress fibers, were absent in vanadate-treated granulation tissue. The expression of alpha-smooth muscle actin was restricted to smooth muscle cells of blood vessels. Controls had densely packed alpha-smooth muscle actin staining myofibroblasts, weak birefringence, and randomly spaced collagen fibers with irregular diameters. We conclude that the local application of vanadate prevents the appearance of myofibroblasts and optimizes the organization of collagen fibers in developing granulation tissue.


Pavlovian theory of conditioned reflexes and Ukhtomsky's theory of dominanta are considered as the most important biological concepts of the XX century. They have laid the foundation of the modern views of the adaptive and active character of the nervous activity underlying the integral behavior in the environment. Approach to a burning problem of neurophysiological mechanisms of goaldirected behavior is impossible without a comprehensive study of works of both these schools. They have formed not only the methodological basis of modern investigations but opened a new avenue of attack.


The author describes the way in which nursing knowledge is developing through medical humanities. This is the study of medical themes and concerns in fictional representations of illness and health, to understand the effect of illness on individuals and society. Thus, the study of medical humanities shows how the humanities, such as literature and philosophy, can enhance nurse education.
The hypothesis that synaptic plasticity is a critical component of the neural mechanisms underlying learning and memory is now widely accepted. In this article, we begin by outlining four criteria for evaluating the 'synaptic plasticity and memory (SPM)' hypothesis. We then attempt to lay the foundations for a specific neurobiological theory of hippocampal (HPC) function in which activity-dependent synaptic plasticity, such as long-term potentiation (LTP), plays a key part in the forms of memory mediated by this brain structure. HPC memory can, like other forms of memory, be divided into four processes: encoding, storage, consolidation and retrieval. We argue that synaptic plasticity is critical for the encoding and intermediate storage of memory traces that are automatically recorded in the hippocampus. These traces decay, but are sometimes retained by a process of cellular consolidation. However, we also argue that HPC synaptic plasticity is not involved in memory retrieval, and is unlikely to be involved in systems-level consolidation that depends on HPC-neocortical interactions, although neocortical synaptic plasticity does play a part. The information that has emerged from the worldwide focus on the mechanisms of induction and expression of plasticity at individual synapses has been very valuable in functional studies. Progress towards a comprehensive understanding of memory processing will also depend on the analysis of these synaptic changes within the context of a wider range of systems-level and cellular mechanisms of neuronal transmission and plasticity.
Amyloid beta-protein (Abeta) is believed to be a primary cause of Alzheimer's disease (AD). Recent research has examined the potential importance of soluble species of Abeta in synaptic dysfunction, long before fibrillary Abeta is deposited and neurodegenerative changes occur. Hippocampal excitatory synaptic transmission and plasticity are disrupted in transgenic mice overexpressing human amyloid precursor protein with early onset familial AD mutations, and in rats after exogenous application of synthetic Abeta both in vitro and in vivo. Recently, naturally produced soluble Abeta was shown to block the persistence of long-term potentiation (LTP) in the intact hippocampus. Sub-nanomolar concentrations of oligomeric Abeta were sufficient to inhibit late LTP, pointing to a possible reason for the sensitivity of hippocampus-dependent memory to impairment in the early preclinical stages of AD. Having identified the active species of Abeta that can play havoc with synaptic plasticity, it is hoped that new ways of targeting early AD can be developed.
Long-term potentiation (LTP) and long-term depression (LTD) are thought to be critical mechanisms that contribute to the neural circuit modifications that mediate all forms of experience-dependent plasticity. It has, however, been difficult to demonstrate directly that experience causes long-lasting changes in synaptic strength and that these mediate changes in behaviour. To address these potential functional roles of LTP and LTD, we have taken advantage of the powerful in vivo effects of drugs of abuse that exert their behavioural effects in large part by acting in the nucleus accumbens (NAc) and ventral tegmental area (VTA); the two major components of the mesolimbic dopamine system. Our studies suggest that in vivo drugs of abuse such as cocaine cause long-lasting changes at excitatory synapses in the NAc and VTA owing to activation of the mechanisms that underlie LTP and LTD in these structures. Thus, administration of drugs of abuse provides a distinctive model for further investigating the mechanisms and functions of synaptic plasticity in brain regions that play important roles in the control of motivated behaviour, and one with considerable practical implications.
Our primary research interest is to understand the molecular and cellular mechanisms on neuronal circuitry underlying the acquisition, consolidation and retrieval of hippocampus-dependent memory in rodents. We study these problems by producing genetically engineered (i.e. spatially targeted and/or temporally restricted) mice and analysing these mice by multifaceted methods including molecular and cellular biology, in vitro and in vivo physiology and behavioural studies. We attempt to identify deficits at each of the multiple levels of complexity in specific brain areas or cell types and deduce those deficits that underlie specific learning or memory. We will review our recent studies on the acquisition, consolidation and recall of memories that have been conducted with mouse strains in which genetic manipulations were targeted to specific types of cells in the hippocampus or forebrain of young adult mice.
The paramount feature of long-term potentiation (LTP) as a memory mechanism is its characteristic persistence over time. Although the basic phenomenology of LTP persistence was established 30 years ago, new insights have emerged recently about the extent of LTP persistence and its regulation by activity and experience. Thus, it is now evident that LTP, at least in the dentate gyrus, can either be decremental, lasting from hours to weeks, or stable, lasting months or longer. Although mechanisms engaged during the induction of LTP regulate its subsequent persistence, the maintenance of LTP is also governed by activity patterns post-induction, whether induced experimentally or generated by experience. These new findings establish dentate gyrus LTP as a useful model system for studying the mechanisms governing the induction, maintenance and interference with long-term memory, including very long-term memory lasting months or longer. The challenge is to study LTP persistence in other brain areas, and to relate, if possible, the properties and regulation of LTP maintenance to these same properties of the information that is actually stored in those regions.
Working on the idea that postsynaptic and presynaptic mechanisms of long-term potentiation (LTP) expression are not inherently mutually exclusive, we have looked for the existence and functionality of presynaptic mechanisms for augmenting transmitter release in hippocampal slices. Specifically, we asked if changes in glutamate release might contribute to the conversion of 'silent synapses' that show N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) responses but no detectable alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionic acid (AMPA) responses, to ones that exhibit both. Here, we review experiments where NMDA receptor responses provided a bioassay of cleft glutamate concentration, using opposition between peak [glu](cleft )and a rapidly reversible antagonist, L-AP5. We discuss findings of a dramatic increase in peak [glu](cleft) upon expression of pairing-induced LTP (Choi). We present simulations with a quantitative model of glutamatergic synaptic transmission that includes modulation of the presynaptic fusion pore, realistic cleft geometry and a distributed array of postsynaptic receptors and glutamate transporters. The modelling supports the idea that changes in the dynamics of glutamate release can contribute to synaptic unsilencing. We review direct evidence from Renger et al., in accord with the modelling, that trading off the strength and duration of the glutamate transient can markedly alter AMPA receptor responses with little effect on NMDA receptor responses. An array of additional findings relevant to fusion pore modulation and its proposed contribution to LTP expression are considered.
The dendrites of CA1 pyramidal neurons in the hippocampus express numerous types of voltage-gated ion channel, but the distributions or densities of many of these channels are very non-uniform. Sodium channels in the dendrites are responsible for action potential (AP) propagation from the axon into the dendrites (back-propagation); calcium channels are responsible for local changes in dendritic calcium concentrations following back-propagating APs and synaptic potentials; and potassium channels help regulate overall dendritic excitability. Several lines of evidence are presented here to suggest that back-propagating APs, when coincident with excitatory synaptic input, can lead to the induction of either long-term depression (LTD) or long-term potentiation (LTP). The induction of LTD or LTP is correlated with the magnitude of the rise in intracellular calcium. When brief bursts of synaptic potentials are paired with postsynaptic APs in a theta-burst pairing paradigm, the induction of LTP is dependent on the invasion of the AP into the dendritic tree. The amplitude of the AP in the dendrites is dependent, in part, on the activity of a transient, A-type potassium channel that is expressed at high density in the dendrites and correlates with the induction of the LTP. Furthermore, during the expression phase of the LTP, there are local changes in dendritic excitability that may result from modulation of the functioning of this transient potassium channel. The results support the view that the active properties of dendrites play important roles in synaptic integration and synaptic plasticity of these neurons.
Theories of receptive field plasticity and information storage make specific assumptions for how synapses are modified. I give a personal account of how testing the validity of these assumptions eventually led to a detailed understanding of long-term depression and metaplasticity in hippocampal area CA1 and the visual cortex. The knowledge of these molecular mechanisms now promises to reveal when and how sensory experience modifies synapses in the cerebral cortex.
The discovery of long-term potentiation (LTP) transformed research on the neurobiology of learning and memory. This did not happen overnight, but the discovery of an experimentally demonstrable phenomenon reflecting activity-driven neuronal and synaptic plasticity changed discussions about what might underlie learning from speculation into something much more concrete. Equally, however, the relationship between the discovery of LTP and research on the neurobiology of learning and memory has been reciprocal; for it is also true that studies of the psychological, anatomical and neurochemical basis of memory provided a developing and critical intellectual context for the physiological discovery. The emerging concept of multiple memory systems, from 1970 onwards, paved the way for the development of new behavioural and cognitive tasks, including the watermaze described in this paper. The use of this task in turn provided key evidence that pharmacological interference with an LTP induction mechanism would also interfere with learning, a finding that was by no means a foregone conclusion. This reciprocal relationship between studies of LTP and the neurobiology of memory helped the physiological phenomenon to be recognized as a major discovery.
The role of N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptors in the induction of long-term potentiation (LTP) was established during the 1980s. In this article I present a personal reflection upon the role that my colleagues and I played in the discovery of the mechanism of induction of NMDA receptor-dependent LTP.
The early history of the experimental work leading to the discovery that long-term potentiation (LTP) embodies Hebb's principle of association is described. In addition, the fallacy underlying the sometimes presumed distinction between 'cooperativity' and 'associativity' in the induction of LTP is pointed out.
The first ten years of long-term potentiation (LTP) research are reviewed. Surprisingly, given the intensity of current interest, the discovery paper did not trigger a wave of follow-on experiments. Despite this, the initial work laid out what ultimately became standard questions and paradigms. The application of the then still novel hippocampal slice technique oriented LTP towards basic neuroscience, perhaps somewhat at the cost of lesser attention to its functional significance. The use of slices led to the discovery of the events that trigger the formation of LTP and provided some first clues about its extraordinary persistence. Signs of the intense controversy over the nature of LTP expression (release vs receptors) emerged towards the end of the first decade of work. What appears to be lacking in the literature of that time is a widespread concern about LTP and memory. This may reflect a somewhat different attitude that neurobiologists then had towards memory research and a perceived need to integrate the new potentiation phenomenon into the web of established science before advancing extended arguments about its contributions to behaviour.
In the mid-1960s, it was generally agreed that the engram, the neural trace of previously experienced events, must be encoded by Hebb-like neurons in which synaptic efficacy could be modified by activity. Here, I describe my attempts as a PhD student at McGill University, Montreal, to find rules governing cortical plasticity in the neocortex, and having failed, why the hippocampus seemed to offer a far better prospect.
This paper describes circumstances around the discovery of long-term potentiation (LTP). In 1966, I had just begun independent work for the degree of Dr medicinae (PhD) in Per Andersen's laboratory in Oslo after an eighteen-month apprenticeship with him. Studying the effects of activating the perforant path to dentate granule cells in the hippocampus of anaesthetized rabbits, I observed that brief trains of stimuli resulted in increased efficiency of transmission at the perforant path-granule cell synapses that could last for hours. In 1968, Tim Bliss came to Per Andersen's laboratory to learn about the hippocampus and field potential recording for studies of possible memory mechanisms. The two of us then followed up my preliminary results from 1966 and did the experiments that resulted in a paper that is now properly considered to be the basic reference for the discovery of LTP.
Searching for premonitory studies of hippocampal long-term potentiation (LTP), there is a paucity of data. While synaptic enhancement during repetitive activation was studied in several reports from many groups between 1955 and 1967, the reported after-effects were short, at the most lasting a few minutes. Responses lasting for more than 1 hour were not reported until 1973.

Parkinson's disease (PD) is a neurodegenerative disorder of uncertain pathogenesis characterized by the loss of the nigrostriatal dopaminergic neurons, which can be modeled by the neurotoxin 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP). Increased expression of cyclooxygenase type 2 (COX-2) and production of prostaglandin E(2) have been implicated in neurodegeneration in several pathological settings. Here we show that COX-2, the rate-limiting enzyme in prostaglandin E(2) synthesis, is up-regulated in brain dopaminergic neurons of both PD and MPTP mice. COX-2 induction occurs through a JNKc-Jun-dependent mechanism after MPTP administration. We demonstrate that targeting COX-2 does not protect against MPTP-induced dopaminergic neurodegeneration by mitigating inflammation. Instead, we provide evidence that COX-2 inhibition prevents the formation of the oxidant species dopamine-quinone, which has been implicated in the pathogenesis of PD. This study supports a critical role for COX-2 in both the pathogenesis and selectivity of the PD neurodegenerative process. Because of the safety record of the COX-2 inhibitors, and their ability to penetrate the blood-brain barrier, these drugs may be therapies for PD.
In the visual system, differential gene expression underlies development of the anterior-posterior and dorsal-ventral axes. Here we present the results of a microarray screen to identify genes differentially expressed in the developing retina. We assayed gene expression in nasal (anterior), temporal (posterior), dorsal, and ventral embryonic mouse retina. We used a statistical method to estimate gene expression between different retina regions. Genes were clustered according to their expression pattern and were ranked within each cluster. We identified groups of genes expressed in gradients or with restricted patterns of expression as verified by in situ hybridization. A common theme for the identified genes is the differential expression in the dorsal-ventral axis. By analyzing gene expression patterns, we provide insight into the molecular organization of the developing retina.
Consciousness has a number of apparently disparate properties, some of which seem to be highly complex and even inaccessible to outside observation. To place these properties within a biological framework requires a theory based on a set of evolutionary and developmental principles. This paper describes such a theory, which aims to provide a unifying account of conscious phenomena.
Many ion channels in vivo are heteromeric complexes with well defined subunit compositions. For some channels, domains have been identified that determine whether two or more subunit species are compatible in forming a complex. Nonetheless, an unsolved fundamental question is how the native composition of an ion channel is selected during assembly over functional alternatives, such as heteromeric complexes favored over homomers. Cyclic nucleotide-gated channels are tetramers and, in their native forms, are composed of A and B subunits. Although most A subunits can form functional homomeric channels when expressed alone, A/B heteromeric channels are selectively formed in the presence of a B subunit. Here, we show that this selective assembly of heteromeric channels requires a trimer-forming C-terminal leucine zipper (CLZ) domain recently identified in the distal C terminus of A, but not B, subunits. Thus, a CLZ-defective A subunit no longer forms predominantly A/B heteromeric channels with the B subunit. A mechanism for this specificity involving the trimerization of the CLZ domain is proposed.
Aging in rodents is known to lead to deficits in spatial learning and memory, including decreased performance on the Morris water maze. Recent attention has focused on the possible role of adult hippocampal neurogenesis in regulating spatial learning and memory. Therefore, in this study, we have examined levels of hippocampal cell proliferation in relation to water maze performance in aged and young male Fischer 344 rats. Aged rats (24 months old) were divided into aged-unimpaired and aged-impaired groups based on comparison with performance of young animals. Animals received five daily injections of the thymidine-analog bromodeoxyuridine (BrdU) and were killed 1 week later. Total numbers of BrdU-labeled cells were quantified in the hippocampal dentate gyrus and hilus and were related to behavioral performance. Whereas aging was associated with a significant reduction in the number of BrdU-labeled cells, behavioral impairment with aging was not associated with a further reduction in BrdU labeling. In the context of aging, these finding do not support a direct relationship of adult hippocampal neurogenesis with learning and memory capability.
The paraventricular nucleus of the thalamus (PVT) participates in the functional integration of limbic cortical and striatal circuitry. In the rat, the PVT projects to the deep layers of the medial prefrontal cortex (PFC) and to the shell of the nucleus accumbens (NAc). However, the synaptic organization of PVT afferents within these regions remains undescribed. Furthermore, although dopamine (DA) modulates excitatory glutamate transmission in both areas, possible anatomic substrates for specific DA modulation of PVT inputs have not yet been investigated. To address these issues, immunoperoxidase labeling for tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) in DA axons was combined with anterograde tract-tracing, either by biotinylated dextran amine (BDA) labeled with immunogold-silver or by degeneration after lesions of the PVT. In both regions, and with either tracing method, PVT terminals formed primarily asymmetric axospinous synapses; in the NAc, a proportion of PVT terminals also synapsed onto dendrites. PVT profiles in both regions were often seen in direct apposition to TH-immunoreactive axons; this association was more evident in the NAc where the DA innervation is denser. Within the PFC, PVT profiles and TH-labeled axons were occasionally apposed to the same dendrites, but synaptic specializations were not typically seen at these seeming points of convergence. Within the NAc, PVT profiles occasionally made synapses onto spines and distal dendrites that received convergent synapses from TH-immunoreactive varicosities. These findings represent the first demonstration of postsynaptic convergence between DA and thalamic afferents to a striatal region and are consistent with direct synaptic modulation of PVT transmission by DA in the NAc but not the PFC.
The avian hippocampal formation (HF) is a structure necessary for learning and remembering aspects of environmental space. Therefore, understanding the connections between different HF regions is important for determining how spatial learning processes are organized within the avian brain. The prevailing feed-forward, trisynaptic internal connectivity of the mammalian hippocampus and its importance for cognition have been well described, but the internal connectivity of the avian HF has only recently been investigated. To examine further the connectivity within the avian HF, small amounts of cholera toxin subunit B, primarily a retrograde tracer (n = 15), or biotinylated dextran amine, primarily an anterograde tracer (n = 10), were injected into localized regions of the HF. Examination of the immunohistochemically labeled tissue showed projections from extrinsic sensory processing areas into dorsolateral HF and the dorsal portion of the dorsomedial HF (DMd). DMd in turn projected into the medial (VM) and lateral (VL) ventral cell layers. A projection from VM into VL was found, and together these areas and DM provided input into the contralateral ventral cell layers. Ipsilaterally, a ventral portion of dorsomedial HF (DMv) received input from VL and VM. From DMv, projections exited HF laterally. The highlighted projections formed a discernible feed-forward processing network through the avian HF that resembled the trisynaptic circuit of the mammalian HF.
The phenomenon of building-related diseases is attracting much research interest in recent years because of the extent to which it affects people with compromised immune systems, especially children. In this study, we reported the neurological findings in children who attended our Center because of chronic exposure to toxic molds. Clinical neurological and neurobehavioral questionnaires were administered with the cooperation of the children's parents. The children then underwent a series of neurophysiological tests including electroencephalogram (EEG), brainstem evoked potential (BAEP), visual evoked potential (VEP), and somatosensory evoked potential (SSEP). The results showed high levels of abnormalities in the analysis of the subjective responses derived from the questionnaires. The EEG examination was abnormal in seven out of ten of the patients compared to the controls with only one in ten with episodes of bihemispheric sharp activity. In all the patients, there was frontotemporal theta wave activity that seemed to indicate diffuse changes characteristic of metabolic encephalopathies. Also, there was highly marked 1 to 3 Hz delta activity that was asymmetrical in the right hemisphere of the brain in three out of ten patients. The waveforms of BAEP showed abnormalities in 90% of the patients with both 15' and 31' check sizes compared to none in the controls. There were significant delays in waveform V in a majority of the patients representing dysfunctional cognitive process and conductive hearing loss in both ears. VEP showed clear abnormalities in four in ten of the patients with P100 amplitudes and latencies decreased bilaterally. In all the patients, there was slowing of conduction in the right tibial at an average of 36.9 ms and there was significant decrease in amplitude of response at the proximal stimulation site. Sensory latencies obtained in the median, ulnar, and sural nerves bilaterally showed abnormalities in five out of ten compared to none in the controls. The median, ulnar, and sural sensory potentials were abnormal in six out of ten patients. There was prolongation of the median distal sensory latencies bilaterally at an average of 4.55 ms on the right and an average of 6.10 ms on the left as compared to the ulnars of 2.55 ms bilaterally. There was no abnormality in the controls. These findings represent evidence of diffuse polyneuropathy to which three patients demonstrated borderline slow motor conduction at an average of 41.1 ms. Overall, the objective neurophysiological measurements (EEG, BAEP, VEP, and SSEP) were abnormal, indicating significant neurological deficits in all the patients. Our findings revealed the extent to which toxic molds can affect the neurological and behavioral status of children. Further work should be encouraged in this regard.
Ubiquitin carboxyl-terminal hydrolase L1 (UCH-L1) is a neuron-specific ubiquitin recycling enzyme. A mutation at residue 93 and polymorphism at residue 18 within human UCH-L1 are linked to familial Parkinson's disease and a decreased Parkinson's disease risk, respectively. Thus, we constructed recombinant human UCH-L1 variants and examined their structure (using circular dichroism) and hydrolase activities. We confirmed that an I93M substitution results in a decrease in kcat (45.6%) coincident with an alteration in alpha-helical content. These changes may contribute to the pathogenesis of Parkinson's disease. In contrast, an S18Y substitution results in an increase in kcat (112.6%) without altering the circular dichroistic spectrum. These data suggest that UCH-L1 hydrolase activity may be inversely correlated with Parkinson's disease risk and that the hydrolase activity is protective against the disease. Furthermore, we found that oxidation of UCH-L1 by 4-hydroxynonenal, a candidate for endogenous mediator of oxidative stress-induced neuronal cell death, results in a loss of hydrolase activity. Taken together, these results suggest that further studies of altered UCH-L1 hydrolase function may provide new insights into a possible common pathogenic mechanism between familial and sporadic Parkinson's disease.
Unilateral T13 hemisection of the rat spinal cord produces a model of chronic spinal cord injury (SCI) that is characterized by bilateral hyperexcitability of lumbar dorsal horn neurons, and behavioral signs of central pain. While we have demonstrated that responsiveness of multireceptive (MR) dorsal horn neurons is dramatically increased at 28 days after injury, the effects of acute hemisection are unknown and predicted to be different than observed chronically. In the present study, the consequences of T13 hemisection are examined acutely at 45 min in MR neurons both ipsilateral and contralateral to the site of injury, and compared to the same class of cells at 28 days after injury (n=20 cells total per group: 2-3 cells/side of the cord from n=5 animals). Acutely, ipsilateral to the hemisection, both spontaneous and evoked activity of MR neurons were significantly increased, whereas contralaterally, only evoked activity was significantly increased. In animals 28 days after hemisection, spontaneous activity of MR neurons was comparable to intact levels ipsilaterally, and cells exhibited hyperexcitability to evoked stimuli bilaterally. Expansion of cutaneous receptive fields was observed only in hindpaws ipsilateral to the lesion, acutely. These results demonstrate dynamic plasticity in properties of dorsal horn somatosensory neurons after SCI.
Zona incerta (ZI) is a controversial diencephalic area with a variety of cytoarchitectonic subdivisions, neurotransmitters and related functions. Medial ZI synthesizes dopamine (A13 group) and tyrosine hydroxylase (TH, a catecholamine synthesizing enzyme), which has been considered a neurochemical marker for this region. The rostromedial ZI also expresses melanin-concentrating hormone (MCH), but it is not known whether dopamine and MCH are colocalized. By using double label immunohistochemistry we analyzed the distribution of TH and MCH in the rat ZI. We found that MCH and TH neurons are intermingled but are not colocalized.
The cholinergic (ACh) projections of the nucleus basalis and the serotonergic (5-HT) projections of the raphe nuclei to the neocortex are required for the normal function of the neocortex. Nevertheless, damage to either system alone has little effect on the behavior of rats, but conjoint damage to both systems is reported to produce dementia to the point that animals are described as being unable to engage in intelligent behavior. Because rats with bilateral damage to both systems are so severely impaired, they are not useful for chronic studies. The objective of the present research was to determine whether unilateral depletions produce a functional impairment. Rats received unilateral neurotoxic lesions to either the nucleus basalis (quisqualic acid), or the medial forebrain bundle (5,7-dihydroxytryptamine), or both, which reduced neocortical levels of ACh (55%) and 5-HT (63%). The rats then received a battery of tests sensitive to unilateral neocortical injury. The 5-HT lesion produced no quantitative or qualitative deficits on reaching for food, walking across a horizontal ladder, forelimb placement in a cylinder, sensory detection of adhesive paper applied to the wrists, or forelimb inhibition during swimming. The ACh lesion produced mild qualitative deficits in reaching. Combined lesions produced mild deficits in skilled reaching, ladder walking, and sensory detection. In contrast to the mild impairments produced by the lesions, pharmacological blockade of either ACh with atropine or 5-HT with methiothepin mesylate systemically blocked skilled motor behavior as assessed by skilled reaching. The results are discussed in relation to the problems associated with the development of a unilateral model of dementia.
Huntington's disease (HD) is a neurodegenerative disorder caused by expansion of a polyglutamine tract in a protein called huntingtin. The inducible form of heat shock protein 70 (Hsp70) has been shown to reduce polyglutamine-induced toxicity. To investigate if overexpression of Hsp70 can affect disease progression in a mouse model of HD, we crossed R6/2 mice, expressing exon 1 of the HD gene with an expanded CAG repeat, with mice overexpressing Hsp70 (both types of transgenic mice were of the CBAxC57BL/6 strain). The resulting R6/2-Hsp70 transgenics exhibited 5- to 15-fold increases in Hsp70 expression in neocortical, hippocampal and basal ganglia regions. This correlated with a delayed loss of body weight compared to R6/2 mice. However, the number or size of nuclear inclusions, the loss of brain weight, reduction of striatal volume, reduction in size of striatal projection neurons, downregulation of DARPP-32, development of paw clasping phenotype and early death of the mice were not affected by Hsp70 overexpression. Interestingly, the polyglutamine protein affected the potential rescuing agent, because in older R6/2-Hsp70 mice a large proportion of the Hsp70 protein was sequestrated in nuclear inclusions.
GABA(B) receptors have been implicated in the GABAergic modulation of catecholaminergic and serotonergic pathways in the central nervous system. The GABA(B) receptor may require two subunits, GABA(B)R1 and GABA(B)R2, for functional activity. Using dual immunofluorescent labelling on adjacent cryostat sections, we investigated the presence of immunoreactivity for the GABA(B)R1 and GABA(B)R2 subunits in brainstem catecholamine (tyrosine hydroxylase-immunoreactive) and serotonin (tryptophan hydroxylase-immunoreactive) neurons. All neurons (&gt;98%) examined in catecholamine groups A1, A2, A5, A6, C1, and serotonin groups B1-3 and B6-8 were immunoreactive for the GABA(B)R1 subunit. All A5 and A6 neurons (&gt;97%) and at least 86% of A1, A2, C1, B2, B3, B7 and B8 neurons examined were GABA(B)R2-immunoreactive. The proportion of neurons with immunoreactivity for the GABA(B)R2 subunit varied between 0% and 99% for B1 neurons, and between 35% and 93% for B6 neurons. Statistical analysis showed that similar proportions of sampled neurons were immunoreactive for GABA(B)R1 and GABA(B)R2 in the A1, A5, A6, C1, B2 and B7 cell groups, whereas a smaller proportion of A2, B1, B3, B6 and B8 neurons were GABA(B)R2-immunoreactive than GABA(B)R1-immunoreactive. In general, our results suggest that GABA(B)R1 and GABA(B)R2 co-exist in the great majority of brainstem catecholamine and serotonin neurons. In the neurons that lack GABA(B)R2, the GABA(B)R1 subunit may act alone or with another protein.
The present investigation revealed that intraventricular administration of the anxiogenic substance CCK-8S (50 ng) decreased responding for previously rewarding brain stimulation (intracranial self-stimulation; ICSS) and subsequently increased brain stimulation threshold determinations from the dorsal aspects of the ventral tegmental area (VTA) immediately following CCK administration. While central administration of the mixed mu/delta opioid receptor agonist D-Ala(2)-Met(5)-enkephalinamide (DALA; 1 microg) was ineffective in abrogating CCK induced ICSS deficits during the immediate post-stressor interval, DALA restored ICSS brain stimulation thresholds to basal values 24, 48 and 168 h following CCK challenge. At 18 days following the initial 50 ng CCK-8S and/or DALA challenges, mice were exposed to a previously determined non-anxiogenic dose of CCK-8S (5 ng). Among mice which received an intervening dose of saline following the 50 ng CCK-8S challenge, depressed ICSS responding and elevated brain stimulation thresholds were evident during the immediate (Day 18), 24- (Day 19) and 48-h (Day 20) test sessions relative to mice that received an intervening dose of DALA on Day 1. These data imply that while CCK induces relatively protracted and exaggerated behavioral disturbances, mu/delta opioid-receptor activation may block CCK-induced behavioral sensitization and change the course of psychopathology.
There is evidence to suggest an antagonistic interaction between the anxiogenic peptide, cholecystokinin (CCK) and the anxiolytic opioid peptide, enkephalin in mesolimbic sites following stressor applications in humans and animals which may define specific behavioral symptom subsets and alter the course of anxiety-like behavior. Locomotor and rearing behavior were decreased following a central CCK-8S (50 ng) injection among independent groups of mice relative to saline-treated animals. Central administration of DALA not only ameliorated the CCK-induced behavioral deficits but exaggerated behavioral activity of CCK and saline control mice (SAL). Locomotor activity and rearing behavior were depressed 24 h following DALA administration yet returned to basal values 168 h following drug applications. Eighteen days following the initial 50 ng CCK-8S and intervening DALA challenge, mice were administered 5 ng CCK-8S. An intervening dose of DALA in mice following the original 50 ng CCK-8S administration on Day 1 was associated with elevated locomotor activity in mice in response to the 5 ng CCK-8S challenge on Day 18. In contrast to locomotor activity, mice administered DALA following the original 50 ng CCK-8S administration on Day 1 demonstrated decreased rearing behavior to both 5 ng CCK-8S challenge and SAL on Day 18. Moreover, administration of 5 ng CCK-8S on Day 18 was associated with decreased rearing behavior in mice previously administered SAL on Day 1. These data imply that while CCK induces relatively protracted behavioral disturbances, mu/delta receptor activation may change the course of psychopathology.
The lamprey spinal cord contains three dopaminergic systems. The most extensive is the ventromedial plexus in which dopamine is co-localized with 5-HT and tachykinins. In this study we have investigated the effects of endogenously released dopamine on NMDA-induced spinal activity, and for comparison applied dopamine exogenously. The dopamine reuptake blocker bupropion increases the levels of extracellular dopamine in the spinal cord. Bath application of bupropion during ongoing NMDA-induced network activity (around 2 Hz) resulted in an initial increase of the burst rate followed by a transitional phase with the fast rhythm superimposed on a much slower ventral root burst activity (below 0.25 Hz). Finally only the slow rhythm was observed. The same response pattern with regard to the fast and slow rhythms was observed when dopamine was slowly perfused over the spinal cord, resulting in a gradual build-up of dopamine concentration. At low constant dopamine concentrations, however, an increased burst frequency was maintained, but at somewhat higher concentrations the fast burst rate instead was decreased. The degree of modulation of fictive locomotion by dopamine was also tested at low and high NMDA concentrations. Dopamine was found to exert stronger effects at low NMDA concentrations. With high NMDA concentrations dopamine did not induce the transition phase or the slow ventral root bursting. The slow alternating ventral root bursts, induced by bupropion, shifted to synchronized activity when glycinergic synaptic transmission was blocked with strychnine, testifying that the alternation depended on a crossed glycinergic action as previously shown for the fast rhythm.
Survivin is a recently characterised inhibitor of apoptosis protein that has been implicated in the pathogenesis of several types of solid organ cancer. This study sought to describe the expression of survivin in a cohort of 90 benign meningiomas, together with the pattern of expression of other genes involved in the apoptotic process, namely bax and bcl2. Survivin expression was noted in 94% (85/90) of samples and was not correlated with the expression of either bax or bcl2 or with clinicopathological factors.
Global ischemia, induced in Mongolian gerbils by bilateral occlusion of the carotid arteries for 5 min, produced a significant increase in locomotor activity at 1 day post-occlusion and a severe loss of hippocampal CA1 neurons at 4 days post-occlusion. To explore the pharmacological relationship between ischemia-induced hypermotility and CA1 cell death in the hippocampus, we evaluated the efficacy of diverse classes of putative neuroprotective agents for preventing hypermotility and delayed neuronal death. Administration of any drug 30 min before global ischemia dose-dependently, and with similar potency, ameliorated both hippocampal delayed neuronal death and locomotor hyperactivity, with a rank order: tacrolimus (FK506)&gt;nizofenone&gt;clonindine&gt;dizocilpine (MK-801)&gt;6-(1H-imidazol-1-yl)-7-nitro-2,3(1H,4H)-quinoxalinedione hydrochloride (YM90K)&gt;phencyclidine&gt;pentobarbital&gt;2-(4-(p-fluorobenzoyl)-piperidin-1-yl)-2'-acetonaphthone hydrochloride (E-2001)&gt;cis-(+/-)-4-phosphonomethyl-2-piperidine carboxylic acid (CGS19755)&gt;3,4-dichloro-N-methyl-N-[2-(1-pyrrolidinyl)-cyclohexyl]benzeneacetamide (U-50,488H)&gt;piroxicam&gt;eliprodil&gt;vinpocetine. Furthermore, potencies of the protective effect on delayed neuronal death and inhibitory effects on hypermotility were closely correlated (r=0.98). These results suggest that post-ischemic CA1 injury and hypermotility share common mechanisms, and further imply that it is possible to predict the neuroprotective efficacy of drugs more easily by examining the inhibitory effects on post-ischemic hypermotility in global ischemia model in gerbils.
beta-Site amyloid precursor protein (APP)-cleaving enzyme (BACE) is an integral membrane aspartic proteinase responsible for beta-site processing of APP, and its cytoplasmic region composed of 24 amino acid residues has been shown to be involved in the endosomal localization of BACE. With the yeast two-hybrid screening, we found that the cytoplasmic domain of phospholipid scramblase 1 (PLSCR1), a type II integral membrane protein, interacts with the cytoplasmic region of BACE. In cultured cells, BACE and PLSCR1 were colocalized in the Golgi area and in endosomal compartments, whereas they were co-redistributed in late endosome-derived multivesicular bodies when treated with U18666A, suggesting that both proteins share a common trafficking pathway in cells. Co-immunoprecipitation analysis showed that both proteins form a protein complex at an endogenous expression level in the human neuroblastoma SH-SY5Ycells, and the dileucine residue of the BACE tail is also revealed to be essential for the physical interaction with PLSCR1 in vitro and in vivo. Moreover, both BACE and PLSCR1 were localized in a low buoyant lipid microdomain in SH-SY5Y cells. The dileucine-defective BACE mutant was also fractionated into the lipid microdomain, but much less stably than wild-type BACE. Taken together, our current study suggests the functional involvement of PLSCR1 in the intracellular distribution of BACE and/or recruitment of BACE into the detergent-insoluble lipid raft.
alpha-Synuclein is a small cytosolic protein of presynaptic nerve terminals composed of seven 11-residue repeats and a hydrophilic tail. alpha-Synuclein misfolding and dysfunction may contribute to the pathogenesis of Parkinson's disease and neurodegenerative dementias, but its normal folding and function are unknown. In solution, alpha-synuclein is natively unstructured but assumes an alpha-helical conformation upon binding to phospholipid membranes. We now show that this conformation of alpha-synuclein consists of two alpha-helical regions that are interrupted by a short break. The structural organization of the alpha-helices of alpha-synuclein was not anticipated by sequence analyses and may be important for its pathogenic role.
A balance of the activities of multiple enzymes maintains the typical asymmetry of plasma membrane lipids in healthy cells. Such enzyme activities are (a) the aminophopholipid translocase (APTL) (a lipid-selective P-type ATPase that catalyzes inward movement of aminophospholipids), (b) the scramblase (a calcium-dependent and ATP-independent enzyme that catalyzes both inward and outward movement of lipids), (c) the floppase (an ATP-dependent enzyme that catalyzes only outward movement of lipids). Activation or inhibition of any one of these enzymes would lead to a loss in this asymmetry. Apoptosis-associated externalization of phophatidylserine has been reported for many different cell-types, but the exact mechanism involved in this loss of membrane asymmetry has not been identified yet. In this report we demonstrate concurrence of APTL inhibition, caspase-3 activation and apoptosis in CNS-derived HN2-5 and HOG cells. Additionally, we provide data to demonstrate that the phagocytosis of apoptotic, CNS-derived HN2-5 cells by the microglial cells requires recognition through phosphatidylserine (PS). Thus the enzyme aminopholipid translocase is inhibited during apoptosis of CNS-derived cells and this alone could account for the loss of plasma membrane lipid-asymmetry observed in these cells.

Sindbis virus (SIN) expression vectors offer the opportunity for studying neuropathogenesis because of their distinct neural cell tropism. Here, we demonstrate that a recombinant SIN vector expressing EGFP (SINrep5-EGFP) infected multiple cell types including neural cells from several species relevant to lentivirus pathogenesis with high levels of transgene expression. Infection of human neurons by a recombinant SIN (SINrep5-JRFL) expressing the full-length envelope from a neurovirulent human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1) strain (JRFL) caused increased cytotoxicity compared to infection with SINrep5-EGFP (P &lt; 0.001), while no cytotoxicity was observed among infected human astrocytes or monocytoid cells. Both human monocyte-derived macrophages (MDM) (P &lt; 0.01) and astrocytes (P &lt; 0.001) infected with SINrep5-JRFL released soluble neurotoxins in contrast to SINrep5-EGFP or mock-infected cells, although this was most prominent for the astrocytes. Implantation of SINrep5-JRFL into the brains of SCID/NOD mice induced neuroinflammation, neuronal loss, and neurobehavioral changes characteristic of HIV-1 infection, which were not present in SINrep5-EGFP or mock-infected animals. Thus SIN expression vectors represent novel tools for studying in vitro and in vivo HIV-1 neuropathogenesis because of their high levels of transgene expression in specific cell types within the brain.
Functional MRI experiments in human subjects strongly suggest that the striatum participates in processing information about the predictability of rewarding stimuli. However, stimuli can be unpredictable in character (what stimulus arrives next), unpredictable in time (when the stimulus arrives), and unpredictable in amount (how much arrives). These variables have not been dissociated in previous imaging work in humans, thus conflating possible interpretations of the kinds of expectation errors driving the measured brain responses. Using a passive conditioning task and fMRI in human subjects, we show that positive and negative prediction errors in reward delivery time correlate with BOLD changes in human striatum, with the strongest activation lateralized to the left putamen. For the negative prediction error, the brain response was elicited by expectations only and not by stimuli presented directly; that is, we measured the brain response to nothing delivered (juice expected but not delivered) contrasted with nothing delivered (nothing expected).
Temporal difference learning has been proposed as a model for Pavlovian conditioning, in which an animal learns to predict delivery of reward following presentation of a conditioned stimulus (CS). A key component of this model is a prediction error signal, which, before learning, responds at the time of presentation of reward but, after learning, shifts its response to the time of onset of the CS. In order to test for regions manifesting this signal profile, subjects were scanned using event-related fMRI while undergoing appetitive conditioning with a pleasant taste reward. Regression analyses revealed that responses in ventral striatum and orbitofrontal cortex were significantly correlated with this error signal, suggesting that, during appetitive conditioning, computations described by temporal difference learning are expressed in the human brain.
Damage to the central nervous system (CNS) is always followed by an irreversible axon degeneration of injured neurons. The purine nucleoside inosine has been shown to induce neurons to regenerate axons in culture and in vivo. In the present study, we investigated the in vivo effects of inosine on the axon regeneration of axotomized retinal ganglion cells (RGCs) in adult rats, using the model of peripheral nerve (PN) grafting onto the ocular stump of the transected optic nerve. Animals were allowed to survive for 4 weeks after surgery with repeated intraperitoneal injections of inosine 1 day before PN grafting till they were killed. Treatment with inosine induced a significant increase (62%) in the number of FluroGold -labeled RGCs regrowing their axons into the PN graft, when compared with the control animals. The axon outgrowth-promoting effect of inosine in adult rodents may represent a potential clinical treatment for injured or degenerated CNS.
As part of investigations of the cellular uptake of apolipoprotein E (apoE) relevant to Alzheimer's disease we have found that different preparations of apoE are handled differently by cells expressing the LDL-receptor. Comparing recombinant, cellular and native apoE, complexed with different preparations of lipid we find that only cellular and native apoE enter a vesicular compartment. Some, but not all of these apoE containing vesicles are lysosomes. In order to further examine the intracellular fate of apoE we demonstrate that apoE-Enhanced green fluorescent protein chimeric protein can be taken up from medium by recipient cells and tracked within these cells for extended periods.
Rough and tumble (R&amp;T) play is assumed to have beneficial effects in developing organisms. To evaluate this idea, brain derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) gene expression was evaluated in 32-day-old juvenile rats that were allowed to play for 30 min prior to sacrifice. In situ hybridization for BDNF mRNA revealed that the amygdala and dorsolateral frontal cortex had significantly elevated BDNF mRNA expression as a result of play. These effects suggest that play may help program higher brain regions involved in emotional behaviors.
The concentrations of alcohol in blood (BAC) and two successive urine voids (UAC) from 100 drunk drivers were compared with the concentration of ethyl glucuronide (EtG), a minor metabolite of ethanol in urine, and the urinary creatinine content as an indicator of dilution. The subjects consisted of 87 men with mean age 42.2+/-14.2 years (+/-standard deviation, S.D.) and 13 women with mean age 42.5+/-14.4 years. Ethanol was measured in blood and urine by headspace gas chromatography (GC) and EtG was determined in urine by liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry (LC-MS). The mean UAC was 2.53+/-1.15g/l for first void compared with 2.35+/-1.17g/l for second void, decreasing by 0.18+/-0.24g/l on average (P&lt;0.001 in paired t-test). The ratios of UAC/BAC were 1.35+/-0.25 for first void and 1.20+/-0.16 for second void and the difference of 0.15+/-0.27 was statistically significant (P&lt;0.001). The UAC/BAC ratio was not correlated with creatinine content of the urine specimens, whereas the concentration of urinary EtG was positively correlated with creatinine (r=0.64 for first void and r=0.62 for second void). The UAC was not correlated with urinary EtG directly (r=-0.03 for first void and r=0.08 for second void) but after adjusting for the relative dilution of the specimens (EtG/creatinine ratio) statistically significant positive correlations were obtained (r=0.58 for first void and r=0.57 for second void). The dilution of the urine, as reflected in creatinine content, is important to consider when EtG measurements are interpreted. The excretion of EtG in urine, like glucuronide conjugates of other drugs, is influenced by diuresis. EtG represents a sensitive and specific marker of acute alcohol ingestion with applications in clinical and forensic medicine.
The authors mapped an autosomal recessive form of limb-girdle MD on chromosome 19q13.3 (LGMD2I), further narrowed down the candidate region to 1.1 Mb, and identified one new homozygous mutation in the fukutin-related protein (FKRP) gene on patients of the original Tunisian family. Immunohistochemical and immunoblot analysis showed abnormal expression of alpha-dystroglycan and laminin-alpha2 supporting the hypothesis that FKRP has a role in the interaction between the extracellular matrix components.
The aim of this investigation was to identify the proportional neurochemical codes of enteric neurons and to determine the specific terminal fields of chemically defined nerve fibers in all parts of the human gastrointestinal (GI) tract. For this purpose, antibodies against the vesicular monoamine transporters (VMAT1/2), the vesicular acetylcholine transporter (VAChT), tyrosine hydroxylase (TH), dopamine beta-hydroxylase (DBH), serotonin (5-HT), vasoactive intestinal peptide (VIP), and protein gene product 9.5 (PGP 9.5) were used. For in situ hybridization (35)S-labeled VMAT1, VMAT2, and VAChT riboprobes were used. In all regions of the human GI tract, 50-70% of the neurons were cholinergic, as judged by staining for VAChT. The human gut unlike the rodent gut exhibits a cholinergic innervation, which is characterized by an extensive overlap with VIPergic innervation. Neurons containing VMAT2 constituted 14-20% of all intrinsic neurons in the upper GI tract, and there was an equal number of TH-positive neurons. In contrast, DBH was absent from intrinsic neurons. Cholinergic and monoaminergic phenotypes proved to be completely distinct phenotypes. In conclusion, the chemical coding of human enteric neurons reveals some similarities with that of other mammalian species, but also significant differences. VIP is a cholinergic cotransmitter in the intrinsic innervation of the human gut. The substantial overlap between VMAT2 and TH in enteric neurons indicates that the intrinsic catecholaminergic innervation is a stable component of the human GI tract throughout life. The absence of DBH from intrinsic catecholaminergic neurons indicates that these neurons have a dopaminergic phenotype.
Neurons in prevertebral sympathetic ganglia receive convergent synaptic inputs from peripheral enteric neurons in addition to inputs from spinal preganglionic neurons. Although all inputs are functionally cholinergic, inputs from these two sources have distinctive neurochemical and functional profiles. We used multiple-labeling immunofluorescence, quantitative confocal microscopy, ultrastructural immunocytochemistry, and intracellular electrophysiologic recordings to examine whether populations of inputs to the guinea pig coeliac ganglion express different levels of synaptic proteins that could influence synaptic strength. Boutons of enteric intestinofugal inputs, identified by immunoreactivity to vasoactive intestinal peptide, showed considerable heterogeneity in their immunoreactivity to synaptosome-associated protein of 25 kDa (SNAP-25), synapsin, synaptophysin, choline acetyltransferase, and vesicular acetylcholine transporter. Mean levels of immunoreactivity to these proteins were significantly lower in terminals of intestinofugal inputs compared with terminals of spinal preganglionic inputs. Nevertheless, many boutons with undetectable levels of SNAP-25 immunoreactivity formed morphologically normal synapses with target neurons. Treatment with botulinum neurotoxin type A (20-50 nM for 2 hours in vitro) generated significant cleavage of SNAP-25 and produced similar dose- and time-dependent inhibitions of synaptic transmission from all classes of inputs, regardless of their mean level of SNAP-25 expression. The simplest interpretation of these results is that only synaptic boutons with detectable levels of SNAP-25 immunoreactivity contribute significantly to fast cholinergic transmission. Consequently, the low synaptic strength of intestinofugal inputs to final motor neurons in sympathetic pathways may be due in part to the low proportion of their boutons that express SNAP-25 and other synaptic proteins.
Short-chain fatty acids (SCFAs) have long been known to exert cellular effects on blood leukocytes. Acetate, propionate, and butyrate represent the most capable SCFA, inducing calcium mobilization which subsequently regulates leukocyte function in the immune system. We have cloned the previously described putative orphan G-protein coupled receptor, GPR43, and have functionally identified SCFA as the activating ligands. Acetate and propionate were found to be the two most potent ligands, although butyrate, formate, and valerate (in this order of potency) also were able to induce receptor activation. Both the human and mouse receptor homologues were found to share the same pattern of ligand activation. This finding, together with a high degree of amino acid sequence similarity between the mouse and human homologues, indicates an evolutionary conserved function. Upon ligand stimulation, the receptor mobilized intracellular calcium in both a recombinant system as well as in human granulocytes. We found the human gene to be predominantly expressed in peripheral blood leukocytes and, to a lesser extent, in spleen. We suggest the designation FFA(2)R to this second receptor activated by free fatty acids. The first-described FFAR, now named FFA(1)R, is activated by medium- to long-chain free fatty acids.
Previously we found that intra-ventral tegmental injections of the cholinergic agonist carbachol induce reward; such injections induce conditioned place preference and rats learn quickly to self-administer carbachol directly into the ventral tegmental area (VTA). To determine what brain regions are activated by such rewarding injections we studied the expression of the transcription factor c-Fos in local and distant brain regions following ventral tegmental injections of carbachol in rats. We also measured locomotion induced by such injections. Carbachol injections into the VTA induced vigorous locomotion while carbachol injections into the regions 1 mm dorsal or 1 mm lateral to the VTA induced delayed attenuated locomotion. Ventral tegmental injections of carbachol induced c-Fos expression throughout the brain. Significant correlations between locomotion c-Fos positive nuclei were found in the retrosplenial area the posterior hypothalamus including the supramammillary nucleus. These results suggest that the retrosplenial area supramammillary nucleus may be parts of the circuitry for the reward triggered by ventral tegmental cholinergic stimulation.
Acute post-training exposures to weak intensity theta-burst stimulation (TBS) patterned complex magnetic fields attenuated the magnitude of conditioned fear learning for contextual stimuli. A similar learning impairment was evoked in a linear and dose-dependent manner by pre-conditioning injections of the polyamine agmatine. The present study examined the hypothesis that whole-body applications of the TBS complex magnetic field pattern when co-administered with systemic agmatine treatment may combine to evoke impairments in contextual fear learning. Within minutes of 4 mg/kg agmatine injections, male Wistar rats were fear conditioned to contextual stimuli and immediately exposed for 30 min to the TBS patterned complex magnetic field or to sham conditions. TBS patterned complex magnetic field treatment was found to linearly summate with the contextual fear learning impairment evoked by agmatine treatment alone. Furthermore, we report for sham-treated rats, but not rats exposed to the synthetic magnetic field pattern, that the magnitude of learned fear decreased and the amount of variability in learning increased, as the K-index (a measure of change in intensity of the time-varying ambient geomagnetic field) increased during the 3-hr intervals over which conditioning and testing sessions were conducted.
The mammalian auditory cortex normally undergoes rapid and progressive functional maturation. Here we show that rearing infant rat pups in continuous, moderate-level noise delayed the emergence of adultlike topographic representational order and the refinement of response selectivity in the primary auditory cortex (A1) long beyond normal developmental benchmarks. When those noise-reared adult rats were subsequently exposed to a pulsed pure-tone stimulus, A1 rapidly reorganized, demonstrating that exposure-driven plasticity characteristic of the critical period was still ongoing. These results demonstrate that A1 organization is shaped by a young animal's exposure to salient, structured acoustic inputs-and implicate noise as a risk factor for abnormal child development.
We have previously shown that beta-amyloid (Abeta) increased the excitotoxicity of ibotenate, an N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor agonist, to hippocampal neurons of rats. In this report, non-toxic amounts of kainate were co-injected with Abeta into rat hippocampus. Nissl-stained brain sections revealed that Abeta/kainate co-injection exerted synergistic neuronal degeneration in the hippocampus as well as that by Abeta/ibotenate co-injection. MK-801, an NMDA receptor antagonist, blocked the neuronal loss induced by Abeta/ibotenate co-injection, but not by Abeta/kainate co-injection. On the other hand, 6-cyano-7-nitroquinoxaline-2, 3-dione, a kainate receptor antagonist, suppressed the neuronal loss induced by the Abeta/kainate co-injection, but not that by the Abeta/ibotenate co-injection. This suggests that Abeta increases the sensitivity of both the NMDA receptor and the kainate receptor.

Magnesium (Mg(++)) therapy has been shown to be neuroprotective and to facilitate recovery of motor and sensorimotor function in a variety of animal models of traumatic brain injury. However, few studies have investigated the efficacy of Mg(++) therapy on cognitive impairments following injury. The present study evaluated the ability of magnesium chloride (MgCl(2)) to facilitate recovery of function following bilateral anterior medial cortex lesions (bAMC). Rats received electrolytic bAMC lesions or sham surgery and were then treated with 1 mmol/kg, i.p. MgCl(2), 2 mmol/kg, i.p. MgCl(2), or 1.0 ml/kg, i.p. 0.9% saline. Drug treatment was administered 15 min following injury with subsequent injections administered at 24 and 72 h. Rats were tested on a battery of behavioral tests that measured both cognitive (reference and working memory in the Morris Water Maze (MWM) and spatial delayed matching-to-sample (DMTS)) and sensorimotor performance (bilateral tactile adhesive removal). The results indicated that bAMC lesions produced significant cognitive impairments in reference memory and working memory in the MWM, DMTS and sensorimotor impairments compared to shams. Mg(++) therapy exhibited a dose-dependent effect in facilitating recovery of function. Administration of 2mmol of MgCl(2) significantly improved performance on the bilateral adhesive tactile removal test, DMTS and working memory tests. The 1 mmol dose of MgCl(2) reduced the initial deficit on the tactile adhesive removal test and reduced the working memory impairment on the second day of testing. These results suggest Mg(++) therapy improves cognitive performance following injury in a dose-dependent manner.
In this paper, we describe the role of chemokine receptor CXCR4 activation by its natural ligand, the chemokine stromal cell-derived factor (SDF-1) (CXCL12), in glioblastoma cell growth in vitro. We show that both CXC chemokine receptor 4 (CXCR4) and SDF-1 mRNA are expressed in several human glioblastoma multiforme tumor tissues and in two human glioblastoma cell lines, U87-MG and DBTRG-05MG. These cells are able to secrete SDF-1 under basal conditions, and the rate of secretion is highly increased after lipopolysaccharide or 1% fetal bovine serum treatment. Exogenous SDF-1alpha induces proliferation in a dose-dependent manner in both cell lines. Moreover, we observed that SDF-1alpha-dependent proliferation is correlated with phosphorylation and activation of both extracellular signal-regulated kinases 1/2 and Akt and that these kinases are independently involved in glioblastoma cell proliferation. The role of CXCR4 stimulation in glioblastoma cell growth is further demonstrated by the ability of human monoclonal CXCR4 antibody (clone 12G5) to inhibit the SDF-1alpha-induced proliferation as well as the proliferation induced by SDF-1-releasing treatments (lipopolysaccharide and 1% fetal bovine serum). These data support a role for SDF-1alpha in the regulation of glioblastoma growth in vitro, likely through an autocrine/paracrine mechanism.
Although a large number of studies have been carried out on the diverse effects mediated by the common neurotrophin receptor p75(NTR), little is known about the molecular mechanisms by which p75(NTR) initiates intracellular signal transduction. We identified a variant of the beta catalytic subunit of cAMP-dependent protein kinase (PKACbeta) as a p75(NTR)-interacting protein, which phosphorylates p75(NTR) at Ser304. Intracellular cAMP in cerebellar neurons was accumulated transiently by ligand binding to p75(NTR). Activation of cAMP-PKA is required for translocation of p75(NTR) to lipid rafts, and for biochemical and biological activities of p75(NTR), such as inactivation of Rho and the neurite outgrowth. Proper recruitment of activated p75(NTR) to lipid rafts, structures that represent specialized signaling organelles, is of fundamental importance in determining p75(NTR) bioactivity.
Propagation of intercellular calcium waves (ICW) between astrocytes depends on the diffusion of signaling molecules through gap junction channels and diffusion through the extracellular space of neuroactive substances acting on plasmalemmal receptors. The relative contributions of these two pathways vary in different brain regions and under certain pathological conditions. We have previously shown that in wild-type spinal cord astrocytes, ICW are primarily gap junction-dependent, but that deletion of the main gap junction protein (Cx43) by homologous recombination results in a switch in mode of ICW propagation to a purinoceptor-dependent mechanism. Such a compensatory mechanism for ICW propagation was related to changes in the pharmacological profile of P2Y receptors, from an adenine-sensitive P2Y(1), in wild-type, to a uridine-sensitive P2U receptor subtype, in Cx43 knockout (KO) astrocytes. Using oligonucleotide antisense to Cx43 mRNA for acute downregulation of connexin43 expression levels, we provide evidence for the molecular nature of such compensatory mechanism. Pharmacological studies and Western blot analysis indicate that there is a reciprocal regulation of P2Y(1) and P2Y(4) expression levels, such that downregulation of Cx43 leads to decreased expression of the adenine-sensitive P2Y(1) receptor and increased expression of the uridine-sensitive P2Y(4) receptor. This change in functional expression of the P2Y receptor subtype population in acutely downregulated Cx43 was paralleled by changes in the mode of ICW propagation, similar to that previously observed for Cx43 KO spinal cord astrocytes. On the basis of these results, we propose that Cx43 regulates both modes of ICW by altering P2Y receptor subtype expression in addition to providing intercellular coupling.
Chronic inflammatory demyelinating polyneuropathy (CIDP) is a slowly progressive or recurrent neuropathy accompanied by infiltration of macrophages in the peripheral nerves. Macrophage colony-stimulating factor (M-CSF) and monocyte chemoattractant protein-1 (MCP-1) are a macrophage-related cytokine and chemokine, respectively. Although, intravenous immunoglobulin (IVIg) infusion therapy has been used for treating CIDP patients, not all CIDP patients have responded to IVIg infusion therapy. To determine the mechanisms of the action of IVIg, we examined serum M-CSF and MCP-1 levels during and after IVIg infusion therapy in 19 CIDP patients treated with IVIg (0.4 g/kg/day for 5 days). Ten of the 19 patients (52.6%) responded to IVIg therapy. Both M-CSF and MCP-1 concentrations in IVIg responders were significantly higher on day 1 postinfusion than those in nonresponders, but decreased to their pretreatment values on day 5 postinfusion. The results suggest that immunomodulation through M-CSF and MCP-1 is involved in the mechanisms underlying the effect of IVIg infusion therapy in CIDP patients.
Extensive research has shown that the hippocampus and striatum have dissociable roles in memory and are necessary for &quot;place&quot; and &quot;response&quot; learning, respectively. In the present study, rats were trained on a cross maze task that could be solved by either a place or a response strategy, and the strategy used was determined by a probe trial. Phosphorylated cAMP response element-binding protein (pCREB) and c-Fos immunoreactivity (IR) were measured in the hippocampus and striatum either immediately or 1 hr after cross maze training. Immediately after training, pCREB-IR and c-Fos-IR were significantly higher in the hippocampus and striatum of trained rats than in control rats matched for motor activity, but the increase was independent of the strategy revealed at probe. One hour after training, however, pCREB-IR and c-Fos-IR were sustained in the hippocampal pyramidal and granule cell layers of place learners but returned to basal levels among response learners. In addition, pCREB-IR was sustained in the dorsomedial and dorsolateral striatum of response learners but returned to basal levels among place learners. There were no differences between place and response learners in c-Fos-IR in the striatum at either time point. The present results indicate that cross maze training causes an initial activation of transcription factors in both the hippocampus and striatum. Formation of memory for a place strategy, however, is related to sustained phosphorylation of CREB and expression of c-Fos for at least 1 hr in the hippocampus, whereas formation of memory for a response strategy is related to phosphorylation of CREB in the striatum.
The relative contributions of glutamate and dopamine within the nucleus accumbens to cocaine-induced reinstatement of drug-seeking behavior were assessed. When extinguished cocaine self-administration behavior was reinstated by a cocaine-priming injection, extracellular levels of both dopamine and glutamate were elevated in the nucleus accumbens. However, when yoked cocaine or saline control subjects were administered a cocaine prime, only dopamine levels were elevated. Thus, glutamate increased only when animals reinstated lever pressing, whereas dopamine increased regardless of behavior. The increase in glutamate was not accounted for simply by the act of lever pressing itself, because the cocaine self-administration group still demonstrated elevated glutamate when the levers were withdrawn from the operant chamber. Moreover, reinstatement of lever pressing for food did not elevate extracellular glutamate, indicating that increased glutamate initiated responding selectively for a drug reinforcement. The source of glutamate was shown to be glutamatergic afferents from the prefrontal cortex because inhibiting prefrontal cortical glutamatergic neurons that project to the accumbens prevented the rise in glutamate. Together, these data demonstrate that activation of a glutamatergic projection from the prefrontal cortex to the nucleus accumbens underlies cocaine-primed reinstatement of drug-seeking behavior.
Repeated cocaine causes enduring changes in dopamine and glutamate transmission in the nucleus accumbens, and dopamine and glutamate terminals synapse on GABAergic accumbens neurons. The present study demonstrates that there are changes in GABA transmission in the accumbens at 3 weeks after discontinuing daily cocaine injections. No-net flux microdialysis revealed a significant increase in the basal levels of extracellular GABA in the accumbens of cocaine-treated rats. The elevated extracellular GABA was normalized by blocking voltage-dependent Na+ channels and provided increased tone on GABA(B) presynaptic autoreceptors and heteroreceptors because blocking GABA(B) receptors produced a greater elevation in extracellular GABA, dopamine, and glutamate in cocaine-treated compared with control subjects. For many G-protein-coupled receptors, increased agonist can cause receptor desensitization. Consistent with GABA(B) receptor desensitization, baclofen-stimulated GTPgammaS binding was reduced, and the reduction in G-protein coupling was accompanied by reduced Ser phosphorylation of the GABA(B2) receptor subunit. No effect by repeated cocaine was found in the levels of total GABA(B1) or GABA(B2) protein. Together, these data demonstrate that withdrawal from repeated cocaine treatment produces an increase in the basal levels of extracellular GABA in the accumbens that depends on neuronal activity. The increase may be mediated in part by functional desensitization of GABA(B) receptors, likely the result of diminished Ser phosphorylation of the GABA(B2) receptor.
Although the role of nucleus accumbens (NAcc) dopamine (DA) in reward learning has been extensively studied, few investigations have addressed its involvement in learning socially relevant information. Here, we have examined the involvement of NAcc DA in social attachment of the &quot;monogamous&quot; prairie vole (Microtus orchrogaster). We first demonstrated that DA is necessary for the formation of social attachment in male prairie voles, because administration of haloperidol blocked, whereas apomorphine induced, partner-preference formation. We then provided the first descriptions of DA neuroanatomy and tissue content in vole NAcc, and mating appeared to induce a 33% increase in DA turnover. We also showed that administration of haloperidol directly into the NAcc blocked partner preferences induced by mating and apomorphine. In addition, administration of apomorphine into the NAcc but not the caudate putamen induced partner preferences in the absence of mating. Together, our data support the hypothesis that NAcc DA is critical for pair-bond formation in male prairie voles.
After brief periods of heightened stimulation, calcium entry through L-type calcium channels leads to activation of the transcription factor cAMP response element-binding protein (CREB) and CRE-dependent transcription. Many of the details surrounding the mechanism by which L-type calcium channels are privileged in signaling to CREB, to the exclusion of other calcium entry pathways, has remained unclear. We hypothesized that the PDZ interaction sequence contained within the last four amino acids of the calcium channel alpha1C (Ca(V)1.2) subunit [Val-Ser-Asn-Leu (VSNL)] is critical for L-type calcium channels (LTCs) to interact with the signaling machinery that triggers activity-dependent gene expression. To disrupt this interaction, hippocampal CA3-CA1 pyramidal neurons were transfected with DNA encoding for enhanced green fluorescent protein tethered to VSNL (EGFP-VSNL). EGFP-VSNL significantly attenuated L-type calcium channel-induced CREB phosphorylation and CRE-dependent transcription, although somatic calcium concentrations after stimulation remained unchanged. The effect of EGFP-VSNL was specific to the actions of L-type calcium channels, because CREB signaling after NMDA receptor stimulation remained intact. The importance of the PDZ interaction sequence was verified using dihydropyridine (DHP)-insensitive alpha1C subunits. Neurons transfected with alpha1C lacking the terminal five amino acids (DHP-LTCnoPDZ) exhibited attenuated CREB responses in comparison with cells expressing the full-length subunit (DHP-LTC). Collectively, these data suggest that localized calcium responses, regulated by interactions with PDZ domain proteins, are necessary for L-type calcium channels to effectively activate CREB and CRE-mediated gene expression.
When stimulus information enters the visual cortex, it is rapidly processed for identification. However, sometimes the processing of the stimulus is inadequate and the subject fails to notice the stimulus. Human psychophysical studies show that this occurs during states of inattention or absent-mindedness. At a neurophysiological level, it remains unclear what these states are. To study the role of cortical state in perception, we analyzed neural activity in the monkey primary visual cortex before the appearance of a stimulus. We show that, before the appearance of a reported stimulus, neural activity was stronger and more correlated than for a not-reported stimulus. This indicates that the strength of neural activity and the functional connectivity between neurons in the primary visual cortex participate in the perceptual processing of stimulus information. Thus, to detect a stimulus, the visual cortex needs to be in an appropriate state.
RNA binding proteins may be important mediators of the activity-dependent transport of mRNAs to dendritic spines of activated synapses. We used fluorescence microscopy and digital imaging techniques applied to both fixed and live cultured hippocampal neurons to visualize the localization of the mRNA binding protein, zipcode binding protein 1 (ZBP1), and its dynamic movements in response to KCl-induced depolarization at high spatial and temporal resolution. With the use of immunofluorescence, image deconvolution, and three-dimensional reconstruction, ZBP1 was localized in the form of granules that were distributed in dendrites, spines, and subsynaptic sites. KCl depolarization increased the dendritic localization of ZBP1 that was not attributed to an increase in ZBP1 expression. Live cell imaging of single cells before and after perfusion of KCl revealed the rapid and directed efflux of ZBP1 granules from the cell body into dendrites in a proximo-distal gradient. High-speed imaging of enhanced green fluorescence protein-ZBP1 granules revealed rapid anterograde and retrograde movements in dendrites as well as dynamic movements in dendritic spines. A population of ZBP1 granules colocalized with beta-actin mRNA, and their spatial association in dendrites was increased by KCl depolarization. The NMDA receptor antagonist AP-5 impaired the dendritic localization of ZBP1 and beta-actin mRNA and inhibited the KCl-induced transport of ZBP1. The activity-dependent trafficking of ZBP1 and its dynamic movements within dendritic spines provide new evidence to implicate RNA binding proteins as regulators of mRNA transport to activated synapses in response to synaptic activity.
Oblique dendrites of CA1 pyramidal neurons predominate in stratum radiatum and receive approximately 80% of the synaptic input from Schaffer collaterals. Despite this fact, most of our understanding of dendritic signal processing in these neurons comes from studies of the main apical dendrite. Using a combination of Ca2+ imaging and whole-cell recording techniques in rat hippocampal slices, we found that the properties of the oblique dendrites differ markedly from those of the main dendrites. These different properties tend to equalize the Ca2+ rise from single action potentials as they backpropagate into the oblique dendrites from the main trunk. Evidence suggests that this normalization of Ca2+ signals results from a higher density of a transient, A-type K+ current [I(K(A))] in the oblique versus the main dendrites. The higher density of I(K(A)) may have important implications for our understanding of synaptic integration and plasticity in these structures.
Demyelinating diseases can be associated with painful sensory phenomena such as tactile allodynia and hyperalgesia. To study the mechanisms underlying demyelination-induced pain, we have characterized a novel model of demyelination of the sciatic or saphenous nerve. Topical lysolecithin application causes focal demyelination of afferent nerve A-fibers without axonal loss, as assessed either by electron and light microscopy or by immunohistochemical analysis of dorsal root ganglia (DRG) for a neuronal injury marker, activating transcription factor 3. Focal demyelination is accompanied by spontaneous action potentials in afferents and increased expression of neuropeptide Y and Na(v)1.3 sodium channels specifically in DRG neurons that coexpress a specific marker of myelinated afferents. In contrast, expression of tetrodotoxin-resistant, Na(v)1.8 sodium channels is specifically decreased in the same subgroup of DRG cells. Central sensitization of somatosensory processing is also induced, with increased behavioral reflex responsiveness to thermal and mechanical stimuli. These changes are reversed by intrathecal administration of an NMDA receptor antagonist or cannabinoid (CB) receptor agonist, but not by a mu-opioid receptor agonist. Recovery of behavioral reflexes occurred approximately 3 weeks after lysolecithin treatment. This is the first time that demyelination of afferent A-fibers has been shown to specifically induce neuropathic pain and indicates that axonal damage is not a prerequisite for development of the pain state. The profile of phenotypic changes in DRG is distinct from other pain models and displays a sensitivity to NMDA and CB receptor agents that may be exploitable therapeutically.
We examined mechanisms contributing to stimulus-evoked changes in NAD(P)H fluorescence as a marker of neuronal activation in area CA1 of murine hippocampal slices. Three types of stimuli (electrical, glutamate iontophoresis, bath-applied kainate) produced biphasic fluorescence changes composed of an initial transient decrease (&quot;initial component,&quot; 1-3%), followed by a longer-lasting transient increase (&quot;overshoot,&quot; 3-8%). These responses were matched by inverted biphasic flavin adenine dinucleotide (FAD) fluorescence transients, suggesting that these transients reflect mitochondrial function rather than optical artifacts. Both components of NAD(P)H transients were abolished by ionotropic glutamate receptor block, implicating postsynaptic neuronal activation as the primary event involved in generating the signals, and not presynaptic activity or reuptake of synaptically released glutamate. Spatial analysis of the evoked signals indicated that the peak of each component could arise in different locations in the slice, suggesting that there is not always obligatory coupling between the two components. The initial NAD(P)H response showed a strong temporal correspondence to intracellular Ca+ increases and mitochondrial depolarization. However, despite the fact that removal of extracellular Ca2+ abolished neuronal cytosolic Ca2+ transients to exogenous glutamate or kainate, this procedure did not reduce slice NAD(P)H responses evoked by either of these agonists, implying that mechanisms other than neuronal mitochondrial Ca2+ loading underlie slice NAD(P)H transients. These data show that, in contrast to previous proposals, slice NAD(P)H transients in mature slices do not reflect neuronal Ca2+ dynamics and demonstrate that these signals are sensitive indicators of both the spatial and temporal characteristics of postsynaptic neuronal activation in these preparations.
Although many psychopharmacological factors contribute to nicotine addiction, midbrain dopaminergic systems have received much attention because of their roles in reinforcement and associative learning. It is generally thought that the mesocorticolimbic dopaminergic system is important for the acquisition of behaviors that are reinforced by the salient drives of the environment or by the inappropriate stimuli of addictive drugs. Nicotine, as obtained from tobacco, can activate nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (nAChRs) and excite midbrain neurons of the mesocorticolimbic system. Using midbrain slices from rats, wild-type mice, and genetically engineered mice, we have found differences in the nAChR currents from the ventral tegmental area (VTA) and the substantia nigra compacta (SNc). Nicotinic AChRs containing the alpha7 subunit (alpha7* nAChRs) have a low expression density. Electrophysiological analysis of nAChR currents, autoradiography of [125I]-alpha-bungarotoxin binding, and in situ hybridization revealed that alpha7* nAChRs are more highly expressed in the VTA than the SNc. In contrast, beta2* nAChRs are move evenly distributed at a higher density in both the VTA and SNc. At the concentration of nicotine obtained by tobacco smokers, the slow components of current (mainly mediated by beta2* nAChRs) become essentially desensitized. However, the minority alpha7* component of the current in the VTA/SNc is not significantly desensitized by nicotine in the range &lt; or =100 nm. These results suggest that nicotine, as obtained from tobacco, can have multiple effects on the midbrain areas by differentially influencing dopamine neurons of the VTA and SNc and differentially desensitizing alpha7* and non-alpha7 nAChRs.
CNS regeneration in higher vertebrates is a long sought after goal in neuroscience. The lack of regeneration is attributable in part to inhibitory factors found in myelin (Caroni and Schwab, 1988a). Myelin-associated glycoprotein (MAG) is an abundant myelin protein that inhibits neurite outgrowth in vitro (McKerracher et al., 1994; Mukhopadhyay et al., 1994), but its role in regeneration remains controversial. To address this role, we performed nerve crush on embryonic day 15 chick retina-optic nerve explants and then acutely eliminated MAG function along the nerve using chromophore-assisted laser inactivation (CALI). CALI of MAG permitted significant regrowth of retinal axons past the site of lesion containing CNS myelin in contrast to various control treatments. Electron microscopy of the site of nerve crush shows abundant regenerating axons crossing the gap. When crushed optic nerve was retrogradely labeled at the nerve stump, no labeling of retinal neurons was observed. In contrast, labeling of CALI of MAG-treated crushed optic nerve showed significant retinal labeling (89 +/- 16 cells per square millimeter), a value indistinguishable from that seen with non-crushed nerve (98 +/- 13 cells per square millimeter). These findings implicate MAG as an important component of the myelin-derived inhibition of nerve regeneration. The acute loss of MAG function can promote significant axon growth across a site of CNS nerve damage.
Equipment used to measure eye movements must generally be calibrated to the individual subject. Some methods of measuring eye position are quite non-linear, requiring that the system's output be linearized. We describe an approach of behavioral calibration and linearization that utilizes tracking of moving targets. The key aspect of this approach is to use tracking of horizontally moving targets to calibrate vertical eye position and vice versa. This method is especially convenient for use with cats, whose fixation of eccentric stationary targets is often unreliable. It allows one to obtain an accurate calibration without having to judge whether or not tracking saccades reliably hit the target.
Simple and useful steps, i.e. placing a grounded plate under the recording chamber as well as using multiple reference electrodes, are introduced here for obtaining reliable low-noise recordings of brain activity in freely moving rats. A general circuit model was built to analyze the electrical interference of both single-grounded and two-reference ground-free recording configurations. In both simulated and realistic conditions under two recording states, 60-Hz magnitude was in the microvolt range. Moreover, the noise was significantly reduced by shortening the distance between the subject and the grounded plate under the recording chamber. Furthermore, in chronically implanted rats, average 60-Hz interference of multichannel electroencephalograms of two-reference ground-free recordings (3.74 +/- 0.18 microV) was significantly smaller than that of the single-grounded condition (9.03 +/- 1.98 microV). Thus, we demonstrated that a lower-noise recording can be achieved by a two-reference configuration and a closely-placed metal grounded plate in an open-field circumstance. As compared to the use of a Faraday cage, this simple procedure is of benefit for long-term behavioral tracking with a video camera and for pharmacological experiments.
As a family of techniques, the Golgi methods have long been used for studying the morphology and structure of the central nervous system. Due to their capricious nature, many modifications have been employed to improve the reliability and quality of the technique, including the recent addition of microwave energy. In the present study, we evaluated the effectiveness of adding microwave energy to two Golgi methods: the Golgi-Cox method and the rapid Golgi method. These methods were selected for their widespread use in animal research and human postmortem studies. Control tissue was compared to tissue exposed to microwave energy for varying lengths of time during the chromating step of both methods. As assessed by stereological cell counts and qualitative observation, the addition of microwave energy improved the quality of the impregnations and the number of labeled profiles in both methods up to a specific limit of exposure. Surprisingly, increases in the number of profiles were often the result of increased non-neuronal staining at the expense of neuronal staining. This result appears to be due to the fact that different classes of labeled profiles displayed distinct staining time courses.
In this study an information-theoretic test for general Granger causality is used to identify couplings and information transport between different brain areas during epileptic activities. This method can distinguish information that is actually exchanged between two systems from that due to the response to a common signal or past history. This is achieved by an appropriate conditioning of probabilities. Statistical assessment of causality is made from a nonparametric bootstrap test, whereas nonlinearity is assessed by a comparison with a linearized version of the causality index. The framework proposed here provides a useful and model free test to characterize interactions in intracranial electroencephalography (EEG) signals.
High-frequency stimulation (HFS) of the subthalamic nucleus (STN) proves to be an efficient treatment for alleviating motor symptoms in Parkinson's disease (PD). However, the mechanisms of HFS underlying these clinical effects remain unknown. Using intracerebral microdialysis, we previously reported that HFS induces, in normal rats, a significant increase of extracellular glutamate (Glu) in the globus pallidus (GP in rats or GPe in primates) and the substantia nigra pars reticulata (SNr), whereas gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) was increased only in the SNr. Bradykinesia can be improved by STN stimulation in a frequency-dependent manner, a plateau being reached around 130 Hz. The aim of the present study was to determine whether neurochemical changes are also frequency dependent. Electrical STN stimulation was applied at various frequencies (10, 60, 130, and 350 Hz) in normal rats. The results show that, for Glu, the amplitude of increase detected in GP and SNr is maximal at 130 Hz and is maintained at 350 Hz. No modifications of GABA were observed in GP whatever the frequency applied, whereas, in SNr, GABA increased from 60 to 350 Hz. Our results provide new neurochemical data implicating STN target structures in deep-brain-stimulation mechanisms.
Retrograde axonal transport of neurotrophins from nerve terminal to cell body requires a number of key processes, including internalization of the receptor-neurotrophin complex into vesicles and formation of multivesicular bodies and their transport along the axon. Previous studies have shown that each of these processes can be regulated by kinases. In this study, we looked at the role of protein kinase C (PKC) in retrograde transport by injecting labeled neurotrophins together with relevant pharmacological agents into the eye and measuring the accumulation of radioactivity in the trigeminal and superior cervical ganglia. Inhibitors of PKC, Ro-31-8220 and rottlerin, did not affect the retrograde transport of nerve growth factor (NGF); however, phorbol ester activation of classical and novel PKCs blocked retrograde transport. The effect of phorbol esters was partially reversed by rottlerin and Ro-31-8220. Activation of PKC has been shown to be involved in the disorganization of actin filaments. In this study, we show that Ro-31-8220 reverses growth cone collapse by phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate and suggest that one of the effects of activating PKC on retrograde transport is to disrupt the actin filaments.
Most cases of early-onset torsion dystonia are caused by deletion of GAG in the coding region of the DYT1 gene encoding torsinA. This autosomal dominant neurologic disorder is characterized by abnormal movements, believed to originate from neuronal dysfunction in the basal ganglia of the human brain. The torsins (torsinA and torsinB) are members of the &quot;ATPases associated with a variety of cellular activities&quot; (AAA(+)) superfamily of proteins that mediate chaperone and other functions involved in conformational modeling of proteins, protection from stress, and targeting of proteins to cellular organelles. In this study, the intracellular localization and levels of endogenous torsin were evaluated in rat pheochromocytoma PC12 cells following differentiation and stress. TorsinA, apparent MW 37 kDa, cofractionates with markers for the microsomal/endoplasmic reticulum (ER) compartment and appears to reside primarily within the ER lumen based on protease resistance. TorsinA immunoreactivity colocalizes with the lumenal ER protein protein disulfide isomerase (PDI) and extends throughout neurites. Levels of torsinA did not increase notably in response to nerve growth factor-induced differentiation. None of the stress conditions tested, including heat shock and the unfolded protein response, affected torsinA, except for oxidative stress, which resulted in an increase in the apparent MW of torsinA and redistribution to protrusions from the cell surface. These findings are consistent with a relatively rapid covalent modification of torsinA in response to oxidative stress causing a change in state. Mutant torsinA may interfere with and/or compromise ER functions, especially in dopaminergic neurons, which have high levels of torsinA and are intrinsically vulnerable to oxidative stress.
Retinal neurons are coupled via gap junctions, which function as electrical synapses that are gated by ambient light conditions. Gap junctions connecting either horizontal cells or AII amacrine cells are inhibited by the neurotransmitter dopamine, via the activation of the cyclic adenosine monophosphate (cAMP)/protein kinase A (PKA) signaling pathway. Fish connexin35 (Cx35) and its mouse ortholog, Cx36, are good candidates to undergo dopaminergic modulation, because they have been detected in the inner plexiform layer of the retina, where Type II amacrine cells establish synaptic contacts. We have taken advantage of the ability of certain connexins to form functional connexons (hemi-channels), when expressed in Xenopus oocytes, to investigate whether pharmacological elevation of cAMP modulates voltage-activated hemi-channel currents in single oocytes. Injection of perch Cx35 RNA into Xenopus oocytes induced outward voltage-dependent currents that were recorded at positive membrane potentials. Incubation of oocytes with 8-bromoadenosine 3',5'-cyclic monophosphate (8-Br-cAMP), a membrane permeable cAMP analog, resulted in a dose-dependent and reversible inhibition of hemi-channel currents at the more positive voltage steps. In contrast, treatment with 8-Br-cAMP did not have any effect on hemi-channel currents induced by skate Cx35. Amino acid sequence comparison of the two fish connexins revealed, in the middle cytoplasmic loop of perch Cx35, the presence of a PKA consensus sequence that was absent in the skate connexin. The results obtained with two constructs in which the putative PKA phosphorylation site was either suppressed (perch Cx35R108Q) or introduced (skate Cx35Q108R) indicate that it is responsible for the inhibition of hemi-channel currents. These studies demonstrate that perch Cx35 is a target of the cAMP/PKA signaling pathway and identify a consensus PKA phosphorylation site that is required for channel gating.
Acetaminophen (APAP) has recently been found to target COX-3, a newly identified COX isozyme. We discovered previously that selective COX-2 inhibitors reduce membrane excitability and long-term potentiation (LTP) in the hippocampus. The purpose of this study was to investigate whether APAP had effects on hippocampal LTP. We found that APAP reduced LTP induction and increased the paired-pulse facilitation (PPF). APAP-induced changes in LTP and PPF were blocked by a 5-hydroxytryptamine (serotonin, 5-HT(2/1)) receptor antagonist. The results suggest that APAP-induced modification of synaptic plasticity at hippocampal lateral perforant path-dentate granule cell synapses may be mediated by a presynaptic 5-HT(2) receptor.
The receptor subtype(s) responsible for the cardiovascular actions of the melanocortins remains to be elucidated. This study investigated the cardiovascular effects of central injection of alpha-MSH and a potent cyclic MC3/4 receptor agonist, MTII, in the presence and absence of the newly developed MC4 receptor selective antagonist, HS014. Both alpha-MSH (250 pmol) and MTII (20-500 pmol) produced a rapid decrease in blood pressure and heart rate after injection into the nucleus tractus solitarii (NTS) of urethane-anaesthetised male Sprague-Dawley rats. These responses were attenuated in a dose-dependent manner by prior local NTS blockade with HS014 (20 or 100 pmol), providing evidence for the role of the MC4 receptor in the cardiovascular changes following NTS injection of melanocortins in the rat.
To characterize modulatory effects of striatal interneurons upon the output nucleus of the basal ganglia, we ablated striatal interneurons that express substance P receptors by using local injection of a selective neurotoxin, substance P-saporin, in rats. We then made extracellular recordings of the activity of entopeduncular neurons and examined their responses to stimulation in the motor cortex. In the interneuron-ablated animals, the spontaneous discharge rate of entopeduncular neurons was significantly decreased, and the proportion of entopeduncular neurons showing responses to cortical stimulation was significantly larger, in comparison with intact animals. It is suggested that striatal interneurons expressing substance P receptors are important for motor control mechanisms mediated by the cortico-basal ganglia pathways.

Most electrically coupled neurons also receive numerous chemical synaptic inputs. Whereas chemical synapses are known to be highly dynamic, gap junction-mediated electrical transmission often is considered to be less modifiable and variable. By using simultaneous pre- and postsynaptic recordings, we demonstrate at single mixed electrical and chemical synapses that fast chemical transmission interacts with gap junctions within the same ending to regulate their conductance. Such localized interaction is activity-dependent and could account for the large variation in strength of electrical coupling at auditory afferent synapses terminating on the Mauthner cell lateral dendrite. Thus, interactions between chemical and electrical synapses can regulate the degree of electrical coupling, making it possible for a given neuron to independently modify coupling at different electrical synapses with its neighbors.
Neurogenesis is known to persist in the adult mammalian central nervous system (CNS). The identity of the cells that generate new neurons in the postnatal CNS has become a crucial but elusive issue. Using a transgenic mouse, we show that NG2 proteoglycan-positive progenitor cells that express the 2',3'-cyclic nucleotide 3'-phosphodiesterase gene display a multipotent phenotype in vitro and generate electrically excitable neurons, as well as astrocytes and oligodendrocytes. The fast kinetics and the high rate of multipotent fate of these NG2+ progenitors in vitro reflect an intrinsic property, rather than reprogramming. We demonstrate in the hippocampus in vivo that a sizeable fraction of postnatal NG2+ progenitor cells are proliferative precursors whose progeny appears to differentiate into GABAergic neurons capable of propagating action potentials and displaying functional synaptic inputs. These data show that at least a subpopulation of postnatal NG2-expressing cells are CNS multipotent precursors that may underlie adult hippocampal neurogenesis.
A number of G protein-coupled receptors (GPCRs) have been shown to stimulate signal transducers and activators of transcription (STAT) activities while STAT3 activation by G alpha(o) can lead to neoplastic transformation in fibroblasts. In the present study we examined the ability of GPCRs to activate STAT3 via G alpha(16), a G alpha subunit which is primarily expressed in hematopoietic cells. In HEK 293 cells expressing a STAT3-driven luciferase reporter, the G alpha(16)-coupled ORL(1) and fMLP receptors stimulated luciferase activity upon activation by their agonists. Agonist-induced STAT3 activity required coexpression of G alpha(16) and was resistant to PTX treatment. Upon activation of the ORL(1) and fMLP receptors, phosphorylation of STAT3 at Tyr(705) was detected by immunoblot analysis. Additional experiments indicated that GPCR-mediated STAT3 activation was dependent on JAK and Raf1 signaling, but did not require phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase. This is the first study that demonstrates the stimulatory effect of ORL(1) and fMLP receptors on STAT3 activity.
Patients with diabetes mellitus and with vascular complications in particular, exhibit higher plasma activities of semicarbazide-sensitive amine oxidase (SSAO) compared to control subjects. It has been speculated that production of cytotoxic products of SSAO may cause endothelial damage and thus contribute to the development of diabetic vascular complications such as retino-, nephro-, and neuropathies as a result of SSAO activity.In order to explore the possibility that high SSAO activity contributes to the development of vascular complications in diabetes, we have performed two studies in patients with Type-2 diabetes quantifying plasma SSAO activity, HbA(1c), and urinary levels of the SSAO substrate, methylamine. We also examined the prevalence of retinopathy in these patients. Additionally, we have studied a model of transgenic mice expressing human SSAO in smooth muscle cells. The transgenic mice have an increased SSAO activity as well as mRNA expression. Histological studies revealed a specific aorta phenotype with a condensed and rigid vessel wall in some of the transgenic mice. No wild-type animals displayed this phenotype.In conclusion, we suggest that this transgenic mouse model may be of great value for increasing the knowledge about to what extent human SSAO contributes to vascular complications in diabetes, and also to which extent inhibition of SSAO can prevent the development of such complications.
Prostaglandin E2 (PGE2) is thought to be a principal fever mediator. There are four subtypes of PGE (EP) receptors, EP1-EP4. We investigated which EP receptors mediate PGE2-induced hyperthermia by injecting selective EP receptor agonists into the rat lateral cerebral ventricle under unrestrained condition. ONO-DI-004, an EP1 receptor agonist, increased the core temperature (T(c)) in a dose-dependent manner (1.6+/-0.1 degrees C at 20 nmol, with the peak 30 min after injection) with a time course similar to PGE2-induced hyperthermia. ONO-AE1-259-01 (20 nmol), an EP2 receptor agonist, did not change the T(c). ONO-AE-248 (20 nmol), an EP3 receptor agonist, also increased the T(c). However, the peak effect was delayed (1.2+/-0.2 degrees C, 50 min after injection) compared to PGE2. In contrast, ONO-AE1-329, an EP4 receptor agonist, decreased the T(c). These findings suggest that the EP1, EP3, and EP4 receptors all may contribute to the thermoregulatory response to PGE2, but each may have a different role.
Primary rat microglia stimulated with either ATP or 2'- and 3'-O-(4-benzoylbenzoyl)-ATP (BzATP) release copious amounts of superoxide (O(2)(-)*). ATP and BzATP stimulate O(2)(-)* production through purinergic receptors, primarily the P2X(7) receptor. O(2)(-)* is produced through the activation of the NADPH oxidase. Although both p42/44 MAPK and p38 MAPK were activated rapidly in cells stimulated with BzATP, only pharmacological inhibition of p38 MAPK attenuated O(2)(-)* production. Furthermore, an inhibitor of phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase attenuated O(2)(-)* production to a greater extent than an inhibitor of p38 MAPK. Both ATP and BzATP stimulated microglia-induced cortical cell death indicating this pathway may contribute to neurodegeneration. Consistent with this hypothesis, P2X(7) receptor was specifically up-regulated around beta-amyloid plaques in a mouse model of Alzheimer's disease (Tg2576).

Isolated organs and cell lines from zebrafish exhibit circadian oscillations in clock gene expression that can be entrained to a 24-h light/dark cycle. The mechanism underlying this cellular photosensitivity is unknown. We report the identification of a novel opsin family, tmt-opsin, that has a genomic structure characteristic of vertebrate photopigments, an amino acid identity equivalent to the known photopigment opsins, and the essential residues required for photopigment function. Significantly, tmt-opsin is expressed in a wide variety of neural and non-neural tissues, including a zebrafish embryonic cell line that exhibits a light entrainable clock. Collectively the data suggest that tmt-opsin is a strong candidate for the photic regulation of zebrafish peripheral clocks.
A recent study showing incorporation of acetyl groups from neuronal N-acetylaspartate into myelin lipids suggested the presence of fatty acid synthesizing enzymes in myelin that utilize the acetyl groups liberated by myelin-associated aspartoacylase [J. Neurochem. 78 (2001) 736]. We report here detection of the fatty acid synthase (FAS) complex and acetyl-CoA carboxylase (ACC) in purified myelin. The activity of myelin FAS was approximately half that of cytosolic FAS and, unlike the latter, required detergent for activation. Intrinsic association of FAS with myelin was indicated by failure to remove the activity with NaCl or Na-taurocholate. Myelin-associated ACC was approximately 10% of cytosolic ACC in myelin isolated by gradient centrifugation, and this was reduced by half following osmotic shock; this suggested bimodal distribution of myelin ACC, some being loosely associated within inter-lamellar cytoplasmic spaces and the remainder more firmly associated in a manner that resists NaCl/Na-taurocholate treatments. These results, in combination with earlier findings, provide a possible mechanism for the observed incorporation of neuronal NAA acetyl groups into myelin lipids.
13.329 kilobases of the single copy human tyrosine hydroxylase (hTH) gene were isolated from a genomic library. The 5' flanking 11 kilobases fused to the reporter green fluorescent protein (GFP) drove high level expression in TH+ cells of the substantia nigra of embryonic and adult transgenic mice as determined by double label fluorescence microscopy. To provide a basis for future analysis of polymorphisms and structure-function studies, the previously unreported distal 10.5 kilobases of the hTH promoter were sequenced with an average coverage of 20-fold, the remainder with 4-fold coverage. Sequence features identified included four perfect matches to the bicoid binding element (BBE, consensus: BBTAATCYV) all of which exhibited specific binding by electrophoretic mobility shift assay (EMSA). Comparison to published sequences of mouse and rat TH promoters revealed five areas of exceptional homology shared by these species in the upstream TH promoter region -2 kb to -9 kb relative to the transcription start site. Within these conserved regions (CRs I-V), potential recognition sites for NR4A2 (Nurr1), HNF-3beta, HOXA4, and HOXA5 were shared across human, mouse, and rat TH promoters.
The dopamine-containing projection from the ventral tegmental area of the midbrain to the nucleus accumbens is critically involved in mediating the reinforcing properties of cocaine. Although neurons in this area respond to rewards on a subsecond timescale, neurochemical studies have only addressed the role of dopamine in drug addiction by examining changes in the tonic (minute-to-minute) levels of extracellular dopamine. To investigate the role of phasic (subsecond) dopamine signalling, we measured dopamine every 100 ms in the nucleus accumbens using electrochemical technology. Rapid changes in extracellular dopamine concentration were observed at key aspects of drug-taking behaviour in rats. Before lever presses for cocaine, there was an increase in dopamine that coincided with the initiation of drug-seeking behaviours. Notably, these behaviours could be reproduced by electrically evoking dopamine release on this timescale. After lever presses, there were further increases in dopamine concentration at the concurrent presentation of cocaine-related cues. These cues alone also elicited similar, rapid dopamine signalling, but only in animals where they had previously been paired to cocaine delivery. These findings reveal an unprecedented role for dopamine in the regulation of drug taking in real time.
Synchronous firing of motor cortex cells exhibiting postspike facilitation (PSF) or suppression (PSS) of hand muscle EMG was examined to investigate the relationship between synchrony and output connectivity. Recordings were made in macaque monkeys performing a precision grip task. Synchronization was assessed with cross-correlation histograms of the activity from 144 pairs of simultaneously recorded neurons, while spike-triggered averages of EMG defined the muscle field for each cell. Cell pairs with similar muscle fields showed greater synchronization than pairs with nonoverlapping fields. Furthermore, cells with opposing effects in the same muscles exhibited negative synchronization. We conclude that synchrony in motor cortex engages networks of neurons directly controlling the same muscle set, while inhibitory connections exist between neuronal populations with opposing output effects.
In isolation, a presynaptic terminal generally releases quanta according to Poisson statistics, but in a circuit its release statistics might be shaped by synaptic interactions. We monitored quantal glutamate release from retinal bipolar cell terminals (which receive GABA-ergic feedback from amacrine cells) by recording spontaneous EPSCs (sEPSCs) in their postsynaptic amacrine and ganglion cells. In about one-third of these cells, sEPSCs were temporally correlated, arriving in brief bursts (10-55 ms) more often than expected from a Poisson process. Correlations were suppressed by antagonizing the GABA(C) receptor (expressed on bipolar terminals), and correlations were induced by raising extracellular calcium or osmolarity. Simulations of the feedback circuit produced &quot;bursty&quot; release when the bipolar cell escaped intermittently from inhibition. Correlations of similar duration were present in the light-evoked sEPSCs and spike trains of sluggish-type ganglion cells. These correlations were suppressed by antagonizing GABA(C) receptors, indicating that glutamate bursts from bipolar terminals induce spike bursts in ganglion cells.
In this issue of Neuron, Jackson and colleagues describe a functional correlate of neural synchrony related to movement control. Synchrony strength in cortico-motoneuronal output neurons in primary motor cortex depended upon similarity of these neurons' connectivity pattern with the spinal cord. These results could form the foundation for subsequent investigations of motor binding.
The modulation of BmK AS, a neurotoxic polypeptide from scorpion Buthus martensi Karsch, on the voltage-gated Na(+) channels has been investigated in the B104 neuroblastoma cell line by whole-cell patch clamping. It was found that the whole Na(+) currents and tetrodotoxin-resistant Na(+) current were depressed in a biphasic manner and both steady-state activation and inactivation curves were shifted toward the hyperpolarizing direction in the presence of BmK AS. The results suggested that BmK AS could inhibit both tetrodotoxin-sensitive and -resistant Na(+) currents via modulating the gating mechanism of the voltage-gated Na(+) channels in B104 cells.
Event-related potentials were recorded from sleeping newborns to compare amplitudes and latencies of mismatch negativity (MMN) and late discriminative negativity (LDN) in active and quiet sleep stages. MMN and LDN were obtained in response to changes in semi-synthesized vowels from 20 healthy newborn infants. MMN and LDN responses were significant for both active and quiet sleep. The amplitude and latency of MMN or LDN did not differ between the sleep stages. Thus, in contrast to adult studies that show a significant drop in the MMN amplitude and an increase in the MMN latency as the sleep gets deeper, arousal stages do not seem to effect either MMN or LDN characteristics in newborns. These results suggest functional differences between infant and adult sleep.



The 5-HT(1A) agonist 8-hydroxy-2 (di-n-propylamino) tetralin (8-OH-DPAT) causes inhibition of caspase-3 and apoptosis via the extracellular signal-regulated kinases (ERK1/2) in hippocampal HN2-5 cells. Two 5-HT(1A) agonists, Repinotan hydrochloride (BAY x 3702) and 8-OH-DPAT, block caspase-3 activation and apoptosis caused by anoxia/reoxygenation and H(2)O(2) treatment. This is reversed upon transient expression of dominant negative Ras (N17Ras) and Raf-1 (Raf301), confirming the involvement of Ras and Raf-1 in this 5-HT(1A)-R--&gt;ERK1/2--&gt;caspase-3 pathway. A selective inhibitor of phospholipase Cbeta (PLCbeta) (U73122) but not a general protein kinase C (PKC) inhibitor (GFX) reversed the 5-HT(1A)-R-mediated ERK1/2 stimulation. However, both GFX and the PKCalpha and PKCbeta(1) inhibitor G6976 reversed the ERK1/2-mediated inhibition of caspase-3. ERK-dependent activation of only PKCalpha was observed in immunoprecipitates obtained from 5-HT(1A) agonist-treated HN2-5 cells. Finally, transient expression of kinase-negative PKCalpha eliminated the 8-OH-DPAT-evoked block on the H(2)O(2)-triggered caspase-3 stimulation, establishing PKCalpha as a link between ERK and caspase-3 (5-HT(1A)-R--&gt;PLC--&gt;ERK1/2--&gt;PKCalpha--&gt;caspase-3). Our results elucidate a novel yet general, neuroprotective pathway through which G protein-coupled receptors could cause inhibition of effector caspases, such as caspase-3.
Novel 4'-[(NR1R2-1-yl)]-propoxy-biaryl-4-carboxamides were designed and synthesized. All compounds were tested for affinity at histamine H(3)receptors. Most compounds were highly potent and selective for human and rat H(3) receptors and selected examples such as A-349821 showed functional antagonism of H(3) receptors in vitro and in a mouse dipsogenia model.
The N-terminus of regulator of G protein signaling 7 (RGS7) contains a dishevelled/egl-10/pleckstrin (DEP) domain of unknown function. To gain insight into its function, we used yeast two-hybrid analysis to screen a human whole brain cDNA library in order to identify proteins that interact specifically with the N-terminus of human RGS7 (amino acid residues 1-248). From this analysis, we identified snapin, a protein associated with the SNARE complex in neurons, as an interactor with the N-terminus of RGS7. Deletion mutation analysis in yeast demonstrated that the interaction between RGS7 and snapin is specific and is mediated primarily by amino acid residues 1-69 of RGS7 (which contains the proximal portion of the DEP domain). The interaction between RGS7 and snapin was also demonstrated in mammalian cells by coimmunoprecipitation and pull-down assays. Our results suggest that RGS7 could play a role in synaptic vesicle exocytosis through its interaction with snapin.
To compare the topographic precision of corticothalamic projections to the ventrobasal (VB) complex and the medial part of the posterior (POm) complex, different anterograde tracers were placed in neighboring parts of the primary (SI) and secondary (SII) somatosensory cortical areas. The location of labeled corticothalamic terminals and their beaded varicosities were plotted, and the digital reconstructions were analyzed quantitatively to determine the extent of overlapping projections from the cortical injection sites. Among animals that received all tracer injections in SI cortex, tracer overlap in the thalamus varied according to the proximity of the cortical injection sites. Regardless of which combination of somatic representations were injected in SI, within each animal the amount of tracer overlap in POm was similar to that observed in VB, and a matched-sample statistical analysis failed to reveal significant differences in the proportion of the labeled regions that contained overlapping projections from the injected cortical sites. Among those animals in which the tracers were injected into the whisker representations of SI and SII, the amount of tracer overlap in the thalamus was not affected by the proximity of the cortical injection sites. Instead, tracer overlap appeared to be related to the degree of somatotopic correspondence. Furthermore, within each of these animals, the amount of tracer overlap in POm was similar to that found in the VB complex. These results indicate that POm has a well-defined topographic organization that is comparable to the degree of topography observed in the VB complex.
The present study investigated the role of muscarinic receptor subtypes in the nucleus reticularis gigantocellularis/nucleus reticularis gigantocellularis alpha of the rat rostral ventrolateral medulla in morphine-induced antinociception. The antinociceptive effects of morphine were evoked by systemic administration or microinjection into the nucleus reticularis gigantocellularis/nucleus reticularis gigantocellularis alpha. Administration of morphine produced antinociception for hot plate and tail immersion responses to noxious heat stimuli. These effects were antagonized by prior exposure to naloxone and inhibited by mecamylamine pretreatment. Morphine-induced antinociception was significantly inhibited by atropine in a dose-dependent manner. Muscarinic toxin-1 and pirenzepine inhibited morphine-induced antinociception for both the hot plate and tail immersion tests. At a dose of 5 nmol/site, 4-diphenylacetoxy-N-methylpiperidine methiodide (4-DAMP) also inhibited morphine-induced antinociception, although low doses of this drug did not significantly affect hot plate test response latency when morphine was systemically administered. These results suggest that the antinociceptive effects induced by morphine in part involve the muscarinic M(1) and M(3) receptors of the rat nucleus reticularis gigantocellularis/nucleus reticularis gigantocellularis alpha.
Amphetamine (AMPH) elicits its behavioral effects by acting on the dopamine (DA) transporter (DAT) to induce DA overflow into the synaptic cleft. Facilitated exchange diffusion is the classical model used to describe AMPH-induced DA efflux. This model hypothesizes that AMPH-induced DA efflux is mediated by DAT and results from the transport of AMPH into the cell followed by a counter movement of DA out to the extracellular compartment. To further characterize the action of AMPH, we used the patch clamp technique in the whole-cell configuration combined with amperometry on human embryonic kidney HEK-293 cells stably transfected with the human DAT (DAT cells). In DAT cells, AMPH-induced DAT-mediated currents were blocked by cocaine. We demonstrate that DA efflux mediated by DAT is voltage-dependent, electrogenic, and dependent on intracellular Na(+) concentration in the recording electrode. Intracellular Na(+) fluorescence, as measured by confocal microscopy using a Na(+)-sensitive dye, was enhanced by AMPH application. Furthermore, the ability of AMPH to induce DA efflux was regulated by intracellular Na(+) concentration and correlated with the size of the DAT-mediated, AMPH-induced ion flux across the plasma membrane. In the absence of intracellular Na(+) but the presence of high intracellular Cl(-), AMPH-induced inward currents elicited DA efflux proportionally to their dimension and duration. Thus, we propose that AMPH-induced DA efflux depends on two correlated transporter processes. First, AMPH binds to the DAT and is transported, thereby causing an inward current. Second, because of this AMPH-induced inward current, Na(+) becomes more available intracellularly to the DAT, thereby enhancing DAT-mediated reverse transport of DA.
The physiological properties of most ion channels are defined experimentally by functional expression of their pore-forming alpha subunits in Xenopus laevis oocytes. Here, we cloned a family of Xenopus KCNE genes that encode MinK-related peptide K(+) channel beta subunits (xMiRPs) and demonstrated their constitutive expression in oocytes. Electrophysiological analysis of xMiRP2 revealed that when overexpressed this gene modulates human cardiac K(+) channel alpha subunits HERG (human ether-a-go-go-related gene) and KCNQ1 by suppressing HERG currents and removing the voltage dependence of KCNQ1 activation. The ability of endogenous levels of xMiRP2 to contribute to the biophysical attributes of overexpressed mammalian K(+) channels in oocyte studies was assessed next. Injection of an xMiRP2 sequence-specific short interfering RNA (siRNA) oligo reduced endogenous xMiRP2 expression 5-fold, whereas a control siRNA oligo had no effect, indicating the effectiveness of the RNA interference technique in Xenopus oocytes. The functional effects of endogenous xMiRP2 silencing were tested using electrophysiological analysis of heterologously expressed HERG channels. The RNA interference-mediated reduction of endogenous xMiRP2 expression increased macroscopic HERG current as much as 10-fold depending on HERG cRNA concentration. The functional effects of human MiRP1 (hMiRP1)/HERG interaction were also affected by endogenous xMiRP2. At high HERG channel density, at which the effects of endogenous xMiRP2 are minimal, hMiRP1 reduced HERG current. At low HERG current density, hMiRP1 paradoxically up-regulated HERG current, a result consistent with hMiRP1 rescuing HERG from suppression by endogenous xMiRP2. Thus, endogenous Xenopus MiRP subunits contribute to the base-line properties of K(+) channels like HERG in oocyte expression studies, which could explain expression level- and expression system-dependent variation in K(+) channel function.
We explored the role of known copper transporters and chaperones in delivering copper to peptidylglycine-alpha-hydroxylating monooxygenase (PHM), a copper-dependent enzyme that functions in the secretory pathway lumen. We examined the roles of yeast Ccc2, a P-type ATPase related to human ATP7A (Menkes disease protein) and ATP7B (Wilson disease protein), as well as yeast Atx1, a cytosolic copper chaperone. We expressed soluble PHMcc (catalytic core) in yeast using the yeast pre-pro-alpha-mating factor leader region to target the enzyme to the secretory pathway. Although the yeast genome encodes no PHM-like enzyme, PHMcc expressed in yeast is at least as active as PHMcc produced by mammalian cells. PHMcc partially co-migrated with a Golgi marker during subcellular fractionation and partially co-localized with Ccc2 based on immunofluorescence. To determine whether production of active PHM was dependent on copper trafficking pathways involving the CCC2 or ATX1 genes, we expressed PHMcc in wild-type, ccc2, and atx1 mutant yeast. Although ccc2 and atx1 mutant yeast produce normal levels of PHMcc protein, it lacks catalytic activity. Addition of exogenous copper yields fully active PHMcc. Similarly, production of active PHM in mouse fibroblasts is impaired in the presence of a mutant ATP7A gene. Although delivery of copper to lumenal cuproproteins like PAM involves ATP7A, lumenal chaperones may not be required.
A new approach to the synthesis of 1,4-benzodiazepines and 3-amino-1,4-benzodiazepines, which employs the Pd-catalyzed cross-coupling reaction of an imidoyl chloride with an organometallic reagent as the key step, is described. A five-step synthesis of a key intermediate is described and it is shown that in only four further steps (three couplings and a TFA-mediated BOC-deprotection) a wide variety of N1-, C3-amino-, C5-carbon-, or nitrogen-substituted 1,4-benzodiazepines can be synthesized.

The study of chemokine role in the CNS indubitably represents an important step to understanding many aspects of brain pathology, physiology and development. Here we discuss our recent research on the expression of chemokines and chemokine receptors in brain tissues and in cultured CNS cells, with particular regard to the CXCL12/SDF-1-CXCR4 system. We showed their expression in both glial and neuronal cells in basal conditions and their modulation upon stimulation. We demonstrated that CXCL12/SDF-1 in vitro act as a growth factor for astrocytes by stimulating their proliferation, a phenomenon that could represent the basis of pathological conditions such as gliosis and malignant transformation. We investigated the signal transduction pathways, identifying in the sequential activation of G-protein-PI-3Kinase-ERK1/2 the main signaling cascade linked to the CXCL12/SDF-1-induced proliferation in astrocytes.
Reactive oxygen species (ROS) have been implicated in the pathophysiology of many neurologic disorders and brain dysfunction. In the same pathological settings evidence has been provided in favour of a participation of intracellular Ca(2+) concentration altered homeostasis in the chain of events leading to neuronal apoptosis. In the present review literature reports and experimental data on the relationship between caspase activation and alteration of intracellular calcium concentrations in the mechanisms triggering neuronal apoptosis are discussed. The data gathered support the conclusion that during oxidative stress in neuronal cells the production of ROS triggers a mechanism that, through the release of cytochrome c from mitochondria and caspase-3 activation, leads to apoptosis; the concomitant ROS-mediated elevation of intracellular Ca(2+) concentration triggers caspase-2 activation but both events do not seem to be involved in cell death.
The design and synthesis of novel integrin alpha(V)beta(3) antagonists based on a 1,5- or 2,5-substituted tetrahydrobenzaezpinone core is described. In vitro activity of respective compounds was determined via alpha(V)beta(3) binding assay, and selected derivatives were submitted to further characterization in functional cellular assays. SAR was obtained by modification of the benzazepinone core, variation of the spacer linking guanidine moiety and core, and modification of the guanidine mimetic. These efforts led to the identification of novel alpha(V)beta(3) inhibitors displaying potency in the subnanomolar range, selectivity versus alpha(IIb)beta(3) and functional efficacy in relevant cellular assays. A method for the preparation of enantiomerically pure derivatives was developed, and respective enantiomers evaluated in vitro. Compounds 31 and 37 were assessed for metabolic stability, resorption in the Caco-2 assay and pharmacokinetics.
Memory is believed to depend on activity-dependent changes in the strength of synapses. In part, this view is based on evidence that the efficacy of synapses can be enhanced or depressed depending on the timing of pre- and postsynaptic activity. However, when such plastic synapses are incorporated into neural network models, stability problems may develop because the potentiation or depression of synapses increases the likelihood that they will be further strengthened or weakened. Here we report biological evidence for a homeostatic mechanism that reconciles the apparently opposite requirements of plasticity and stability. We show that, in intercalated neurons of the amygdala, activity-dependent potentiation or depression of particular glutamatergic inputs leads to opposite changes in the strength of inputs ending at other dendritic sites. As a result, little change in total synaptic weight occurs, even though the relative strength of inputs is modified. Furthermore, hetero- but not homosynaptic alterations are blocked by intracellular dialysis of drugs that prevent Ca2+ release from intracellular stores. Thus, in intercalated neurons at least, inverse heterosynaptic plasticity tends to compensate for homosynaptic long-term potentiation and depression, thus stabilizing total synaptic weight.

Recent studies show linkage between Alzheimer's disease (AD) and two loci on chromosome 10. The cell division cycle 2 (cdc2) gene is located close to one of the chromosome 10 markers, and is a candidate gene for AD since it is involved in the pathogenesis of AD. We sequenced coding exons and flanking intronic sequences and the promoter region on the cdc2 gene and found three new single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs). We analyzed 272 Caucasian AD cases, 160 controls and 70 cases with frontotemporal dementia (FTD) for these SNPs. Homozygosity for one of the SNPs (Ex6+7I/D) was more frequent in both AD and FTD cases than in controls. In the combined tauopathy (AD and FTD) group the odds ratio (OR) was 1.77 (95% CI 1.19-2.63) for the Ex6+7II genotype. Our findings suggest that the Ex6+7I allele is associated with tauopathies, both AD and FTD.
Several studies reported that peripheral administration of bombesin (BN) and gastrin-releasing peptide (GRP) improved some forms of memory performance. In the present study, we examined the role of endogenous BN-like peptide(s) for the acquisition of inhibitory avoidance learning in mice using BN-like peptide receptor antagonists. An administration of [Leu(13)-(psi-CH(2)NH)-Leu(14)]BN (antagonizes GRP-R&gt;neuromedin B receptor (NMB-R)) impaired the performance of inhibitory avoidance learning in all doses (16, 32, 64 nmol/kg). While the effect was somewhat lesser than [Leu(13)-(psi-CH(2)NH)-Leu(14)]BN, BIM23127 (antagonizes NMB-R&gt;GRP-R) also impaired performance in a moderate dose (32 nmol/kg). These results showed that endogenous BN-like peptides have some role(s) for the modulation of learning and memory, and suggest that NMB/NMB-R pathway may also be involved in the memory acquisition and modulation as well as GRP/GRP-R pathway.
3beta-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase (3beta-HSD) is an enzyme that converts pregnenolone to progesterone. It has been believed that 3beta-HSD is simply a converting enzyme of female steroid hormone. Recently, 3beta-HSD expressing cells were identified in the spinal cord. Steroid synthesis in the nervous system may indicate that steroid plays a role in the nervous system. We report here the increased expression of 3beta-HSD mRNA in the dorsal root ganglion (DRG) after peripheral nerve injury using reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction and in situ hybridization histochemistry techniques. We detected only a few 3beta-HSD signals in the nave DRG, and found that 3beta-HSD mRNA expression increased 3 days after injury and this increase was still observed at 14 days. Our results suggest that progesterone may have a role in the process against neuronal injury or in regeneration in the peripheral nervous system.
Scientific advances in the fields of molecular biology, neurobiology, pharmacology, epidemiology, genetics, neuroimaging, and cognitive neuroscience are influencing psychiatric diagnosis and treatment, and this influence will grow substantially in the future. The current shortage of psychiatrists will increase over the next several decades, resulting in the need to train primary care physicians in basic psychiatric care and the use of non-physician mental health professionals to administer time-intensive, formal psychotherapies. The juxtaposition of these two trends-an increasing scientific influence on the clinical practice of psychiatry and fewer psychiatrists to deliver that treatment-is cause for changes in the approach to psychiatric education. In addressing these issues, the authors suggest that (1) psychiatry should be more integrated into undergraduate medical education in both basic science and clinical curricula, (2) residents in primary care disciplines should have more direct exposure to psychiatric training, (3) joint instructional experiences involving psychiatry and primary care residents should be encouraged, (4) psychiatry residency programs should maintain flexibility in order to incorporate rapid advances in diagnostic procedures and treatments into residency training, (5) research experience should be integrated into psychiatry residency programs, and (6) departments of psychiatry must develop the leadership and expertise necessary to implement the incorporation of rapidly advancing scientific discoveries into the psychiatric curriculum.

Three patients are described who had severe and progressive diabetic lumbosacral plexopathy despite active immunosuppressive therapy. One patient developed the condition while immunosuppressed for a cardiac transplant and two others progressed while receiving intravenous gamma globulin. The cases raise questions about current unsupported practices of treatment for this condition. Robust clinical trial evidence is required before immunosuppression can be recommended.

The aim of this study was to examine aspects related to self-disclosure of their seropositive status among 68 persons (35 men and 33 women) infected with HIV. Data was collected through in-depth interviews to assess ways in which HIV-related disclosure took place and factors that influenced disclosure. The data was subjected to both qualitative and quantitative analysis. Voluntary disclosure was noted in 44 subjects (65%), while in other 24 (35%) subjects disclosure occurred without consent. Of those who disclosed, 78% of the subjects reported self-disclosure to family members, 7% to friends and 15% exclusively to health professionals. Expectations of emotional and material support from the family members were one of the commonly cited reasons for voluntary disclosure. Only half of the subjects disclosed complete and truthful information while in the rest, disclosure was partial or disguised as a less stigmatizing illness. Stigma, fear of discrimination, disgrace to family and self and futility were reported as the main reasons for non-disclosure. The majority of the subjects (73%) reported anticipation of negative societal reaction as the main concern following disclosure. In India, where HIV-related counselling services are still not freely available, there continue to be non-uniform practices related to confidentiality and disclosure. The findings of this study are important in identifying cultural factors related to disclosure in HIV infection and highlight the need to examine the varying patterns and concerns related to disclosure among HIV-infected individuals.






The 2nd Asia-Pacific regional meeting of the International Working Group on Harmonization of Dementia Drug Guidelines (IWGH) was held in Beijing, China in late 2002. Representatives from over a dozen countries convened to present data on dementia within the region and to share information on locally adapted outcome measures for use in dementia clinical trials. The IWGH recognized the competency and capability of many Asian sites and endorsed their inclusion in future multicenter clinical dementia research activities.
Genes involved in estrogen pathways have been proposed as possible candidates influencing susceptibility to bipolar disorder and the affective symptoms suffered by many women during the puerperal period. The estrogen receptor alpha (ERalpha) gene in particular has been a subject of interest and has recently been intensively screened for variations of potential relevance to psychiatric disorders, resulting in the identification of four mutations in individuals with bipolar disorder or puerperal psychosis. We have examined the frequency of these four ERalpha variations in a case control study using a group of mixed gender bipolar individuals (N = 231), further classified into subsets of parous bipolar females with (N = 112) and without (N = 50) puerperal psychosis, and a non-psychiatric comparison group (N = 110). We have also investigated the families in which the variations were initially detected, for evidence of co-segregation of the variants with mood disorder. We found no evidence in our case control sample to support the involvement of any of the ERalpha variations in either the aetiology of bipolar disorder or puerperal triggering of bipolar episodes. Nor did we find co-segregation of ERalpha variants and disease in any of the four families examined. We conclude that variation in the coding sequence and flanking splice junctions of the ERalpha gene does not play an important pathogenic role in the majority of cases of Bipolar Disorder or Bipolar Affective Puerperal Psychosis.
To compare the effects of the kappa-opioid agonist asimadoline and placebo on visceral sensation and gastrointestinal (GI) motor functions in humans, 91 healthy participants were randomized in a double-blind fashion to 0.15, 0.5, or 1.5 mg of asimadoline or placebo orally twice a day for 9 days. We assessed satiation (nutrient drink test), colonic compliance, tone, perception of colonic distension (barostat), and whole gut transit (scintigraphy). Treatment effect was assessed by analysis of covariance. Asimadoline increased nutrient drink intake (P = 0.03). Asimadoline decreased colonic tone during fasting (P = 0.03) without affecting postprandial colonic contraction, compliance, or transit. Gas scores in response to colonic distension were decreased with 0.5 mg of asimadoline at low levels (8 mmHg above operating pressure) of distension (P = 0.04) but not at higher levels of distension. Asimadoline at 1.5 mg increased gas scores at 16 mmHg of distension (P = 0.03) and pain scores at distensions of 8 and 16 mmHg (P = 0.003 and 0.03, respectively) but not at higher levels of distension. Further studies of this compound in diseases with altered satiation or visceral sensation are warranted.

Advances in research on disability and rehabilitation are essential to creating equal opportunity, economic self-sufficiency, and full participation for persons with disabilities. Historically, such initiatives have focused on separate and specific areas, including neuroscience, molecular biology and genetics, gerontology, engineering and physical sciences, and social and behavioral sciences. Research on persons with disabilities should examine the broader context and trends of society that affect the total environment of persons with disabilities. This article examines the various disability paradigms across time, assessing the relative contribution of the socioecological perspective in guiding research designed to improve the lives of persons with disabilities. The authors recommend new research directions that include a focus on life span issues, biomedicine, biotechnology, the efficacy and effectiveness of current interventions, an emphasis on consumer-driven investigations within a socioecological perspective of disability, and the implications for research and practice.
Pregnancy in women with ALS is rare and is generally considered a potentially dangerous event. We describe four ALS cases associated with pregnancy, together with a review of the literature. Three of the four women described developed ALS during pregnancy. In three cases a normal delivery was performed, with a healthy child. One patient, with severe respiratory failure, underwent an interruption of pregnancy. Seven other cases are reported in the literature, featuring a total of 11 pregnancies. The association between pregnancy and ALS is quite rare, and a pathogenic relationship cannot be excluded. The pregnancy and the delivery may be normal, but respiratory function should be carefully monitored. Generally, ALS does not have deleterious effects on fetal development. However, pregnancy in a woman with severe respiratory failure may precipitate the disease.
Doctors are at an increased risk for prescription drug use, particularly opioids and benzodiazpines. This use can interfere with work function and has major potential negative implications for patient safety. Oral naltrexone, an opioid antagonist, has been used as part of a management strategy for opioid dependent physicians. While some patients stabilize on oral naltrexone, others relapse to opioid use. An alternative method of naltrexone maintenance involves the injection or surgical insertion of a sustained release preparation of naltrexone. This approach dramatically improves compliance, removing the onus from the previously opioid impaired physician to use daily oral naltrexone. This article describes the cases of four opioid-impaired doctors who received naltrexone (either oral or implant) as part of their management. The authors conclude that monitoring daily oral naltrexone use and detecting early opioid relapse is difficult, placing both the opioid impaired physician and their patients at risk. In contrast, by using implantable naltrexone, compliance is assured and opioid abstinence can virtually be guaranteed for five months. It is argued that naltrexone implants offer a level of protection not achieved with any previous treatment. It is recommended that management should involve early and close collaboration between the treating doctor and the Medical Board, with initial treatment, ongoing monitoring and follow-up being a Medical Board requirement for registration.


Renal Na,K-ATPase is tightly bound to a small regulatory protein, the gamma subunit (FXYD2). In rat, it occurs in two splice variants with different N-termini. Immunolocalization on kidney sections revealed distinct distribution of the gamma splice variants along the rat nephron. Where coexpressed, they coimmunoprecipitated with each other along with the alpha subunit, suggesting assembly in oligomeric complexes. Functional consequences of association with gamma were monitored in stably transfected NRK-52E cells. The outcome was that splice variants can differentially modulate the major intrinsic properties of the Na,K-ATPase under normal and stress-related conditions. The data imply an adaptive physiological mechanism of regulation of renal Na,K-ATPase through modulation of pump properties, gene expression, or both.
The FXYD gene family has seven members in mammals and others in fish. Five of these (FXYD1, FXYD2, FXYD4, FXYD7, and PLMS from shark) have been shown to alter the activity of the Na,K-ATPase, as described by other papers in this volume. The gene structure of FXYD family members suggests assembly from protein domain modules and gene duplication. The gamma subunit is unique in the family for having alternative splice variants in the coding region and can be posttranslationally modified with different final consequences for enzyme properties. The nonoverlapping distribution of gamma and CHIF (FXYD4) in kidney helps to explain physiological differences in Na(+) affinity among nephron segments. We also detected phospholemman (FXYD1) in kidney. By immunofluorescence, it was found in extraglomerular mesangial cells (EM cells) of the juxtaglomerular apparatus and in the afferent arteriole. Contrary to many reports that only alpha1 and beta1 are expressed in the kidney, we found that alpha2 and beta2 are present, although not in any nephron segment. Both were detected in arterioles, and beta2 was found in the EM cells. In contrast, alpha1, beta1, and gamma were found in adjacent macula densa. Phospholemman, alpha2, and beta2 are proposed to have distinct roles in regulating the sodium pump in structures involved in tubuloglomerular feedback.



Neuroimaging research has helped to advance neurobiological models of anxiety disorders. The amygdala is known to play an important role in normal fear conditioning and is implicated in the pathophysiology of anxiety disorders. The amygdala may also be a target for the beneficial effects of cognitive-behavioral and medication treatments for anxiety disorders. In the current paper, we review neuroimaging research pertaining to the role of the amygdala in anxiety disorders and their treatment. Moreover, we discuss the development of new neuroimaging paradigms for measuring aspects of amygdala function, as well as the function of related brain regions. We conclude that such tools hold great promise for facilitating progress in relevant basic neuroscience as well as clinical research domains.
The question addressed in this paper is whether the human amygdala processes threat-related stimuli independent of selective attention. This is considered from a functional neuroimaging perspective, describing studies in normal volunteers and patients with brain lesions. The conclusion is that the evidence for such automaticity is strong, indicating that important distinctions exist between emotion and other forms of cognition.
A number of studies in humans and other animals has confirmed the amygdala's role in modulating cognition and behavior on the basis of a stimulus' motivational, emotional, and social attributes. This raises the question of how these attributes are related: is social information processing reducible to motivational processing? Some recent data suggest the possibility that the amygdala's primitive function may be motivational processing that is domain-general, but that its function in primates, and especially humans, may have evolved to process social information specifically. While the issue is unresolved, future experiments could provide additional support.
Evidence has extensively implicated the amygdala in the associative learning process for appetitive reinforcers. Recent interest has focused on the role of the amygdala in the learned associations that occur during the process of drug addiction and relapse. Using an animal model of relapse after chronic cocaine self-administration, we found that rats reinstate extinguished lever responding for conditioned stimuli (tone + light) previously paired with cocaine or heroin (&quot;conditioned-cued reinstatement&quot;). The basolateral amygdala (BLA) complex plays a critical role in this behavior, because permanent lesions or reversible pharmacologic inactivation of the BLA attenuates conditioned-cued reinstatement without affecting cocaine self-administration or cocaine-primed reinstatement. Conditioned-cued reinstatement appears to be mediated in part by dopamine inputs to the BLA, as intra-BLA infusion of a dopamine D1 receptor antagonist blocks reinstatement, whereas intra-BLA infusion of amphetamine potentiates reinstatement. Furthermore, the BLA is also necessary for acquisition of associative learning with cocaine-paired stimuli. Disruption of neural activity within the BLA by sodium channel blockade or muscarinic receptor blockade just before acquisition of stimulus-cocaine associations blocks the ability of conditioned stimuli to elicit conditioned-cued reinstatement after extinction. Together, these results reveal the importance of the amygdala as part of a corticolimbic circuit mediating both the acquisition and the expression of conditioning that plays a critical role in relapse to drug-seeking behavior.
The basal forebrain is a confluence of systems that are crucial to understanding some of the most important functions of the brain, including reward and punishment, learning and cognition, and feeding and reproduction. Basic to understanding this broad spectrum of behavior is untangling the interwoven functional systems in basal forebrain. This has been grounded by the appreciation that the major nearby structures, that is, amygdala and basal ganglia, provide a context for interpreting basal forebrain areas that are best viewed as extensions of either of these larger regions. The components of basal forebrain, the ventral striatopallidal system and the medial and central divisions of extended amygdala, are subcortical relays for information garnered from brain stem, thalamus, and cortical areas. With respect to the classically defined amygdala of the temporal lobe, the lateral-basolateral complex, and the superficial amygdaloid nuclei may tentatively be viewed as specialized cortical regions. Their output targets both the striatopallidal complex and the extended amygdala, with some of the most massive basal forebrain efferents originating in the basolateral amygdaloid complex. The subcortical projections of the basolateral nucleus, at least in the rat, appear to be dichotomous, with anterior (or magnocellular) portions of the nucleus preferentially targeting striatum and ventral striatum (including the core of the nucleus accumbens), while the posterior (small-celled) portions of the basolateral nucleus target the extended amygdala as well as the shell of the nucleus accumbens. This divergence represents a particular opportunity for behavioral neuroscientists analyzing basal forebrain functions. Studies exploiting the dual subcortical projection of basolateral amygdala indicate distinct functional roles for striatum versus extended amygdala. These reinforce the identification of extended amygdala as a functional-anatomical entity distinct from the striatopallidal system.
Developmental, gene expression, connectional, and neuron morphology evidence converges to suggest that cell groups of the amygdalar region participate in at least four distinct, though interrelated, functional systems associated with differentiated corticostriatopallidal projections. The amygdala is neither a structural nor a functional unit; instead, it is a collection of adjacent cell groups in the medial temporal lobe and adjacent regions of the caudal piriform lobe that was defined on gross anatomic terms.
The nature and mechanisms of synaptic plasticity in the amygdala and the relation of amygdaloid plasticity to behavior are exciting new areas of study in neuroscience. These issues were at the heart of presentations by Paul Chapman, Michael Fanselow, Patricia Shinnick-Gallagher, and Michael Rogawski in a session entitled &quot;Long-Term Plasticity in Amygdala Synaptic Transmission&quot; that was held at the conference featured in this volume. In this chapter, I briefly summarize these talks and give my perspective on the presentations as the session chair. I argue that we must first understand the role of the amygdala in learning and memory in order to understand the contribution of amygdaloid synaptic plasticity to behavior. Although it is generally agreed that the amygdala is involved in several forms of emotional learning and memory such as pavlovian fear conditioning, a recent debate has emerged concerning the precise role of the amygdala in learning versus performing fear responses. I discuss data from my laboratory that unravel this issue. I argue that the basolateral complex of the amygdala (BLA) normally plays an essential role in associative processes in fear conditioning. Nonetheless, rats with BLA lesions acquire and express conditional fear under some conditions. A neuroanatomical model that accounts for these data is presented.
New data on the organization of the intra-amygdaloid circuit is reviewed, beginning with the basolateral (BL) complex, the main input station of the amygdala for sensory afferents, and concluding with the central (CE) nucleus, an important source of projections to brain-stem structures mediating fear responses. The BL complex is endowed with a highly divergent system of intrinsic glutamatergic connections. Yet, BL projection cells have unusually low firing rates. This apparent contradiction is explained by the presence of powerful inhibitory pressures in the BL amygdala: (1) interneurons that generate large-amplitude inhibitory synaptic potentials and (2) projection cells that express a Ca(2+)-dependent K(+) current that can be activated by subthreshold synaptic inputs. Likewise, excitatory projections from the BL amygdala to the CE nucleus are controlled by clusters of GABAergic neurons, termed the intercalated (ITC) cell masses. In response to BL inputs, ITC cells generate feedforward inhibition in CE neurons. However, ITC neurons exhibit properties that allow them to modify the amount of inhibition they generate depending on the distribution of BL activity in space and time. Indeed, ITC cell masses can inhibit each other via lateromedial connections. Moreover, they express an unusual K(+) conductance that modifies their response to BL inputs depending on their recent firing history. Thus, inhibitory mechanisms of the amygdala allow for flexible, context-dependent gating of BL impulses to the CE nucleus.
The amygdala plays a major role in the acquisition and expression of fear conditioning. NMDA receptor-dependent synaptic plasticity within the basolateral amygdala has been proposed to underlie the acquisition and possible storage of fear memories. Here the properties of fast glutamatergic transmission in the lateral and central nuclei of the amygdala are presented. In the lateral amygdala, two types of neurons, interneurons and projection neurons, could be distinguished by their different firing properties. Glutamatergic inputs to interneurons activated AMPA receptors with inwardly rectifying current-voltage relations (I-Vs), whereas inputs to projection neurons activated receptors that had linear I-Vs, indicating that receptors on interneurons lack GluR2 subunits. Inputs to projection neurons formed dual component synapses with both AMPA and NMDA components, whereas at inputs to interneurons, the contribution of NMDA receptors was very small. Neurons in the central amygdala received dual component glutamatergic inputs that activated AMPA receptors with linear I-Vs. NMDA receptor-mediated EPSCs had slow decay time constants in the central nucleus. Application of NR2B selective blockers ifenprodil or CP-101,606 blocked NMDA EPSCs by 70% in the central nucleus, but only by 30% in the lateral nucleus. These data show that the distribution of glutamatergic receptors on amygdalar neurons is not uniform. In the lateral amygdala, interneurons and pyramidal neurons express AMPA receptors with different subunit compositions. Synapses in the central nucleus activate NMDA receptors that contain NR1 and NR2B subunits, whereas synapses in the lateral nucleus contain receptors with both NR2A and NR2B subunits.

Burdach is credited with first using the term &quot;amygdala&quot; to describe an almond-shaped mass of gray matter in the anterior portion of the human temporal lobe. With the subsequent development of histological techniques in the latter part of the nineteenth century it became readily apparent that there were areas dorsal and medial to Burdach's amygdala that seemed to be anatomically related to it. These regions include the nuclei that are now called the central, medial, and cortical amygdalar nuclei. Johnston considered the amygdala to have two major portions: (1) the centromedial nuclei, which are closely associated with the striatum, and (2) the cortical and basolateral nuclei, which are closely associated with the cerebral cortex. Johnston also importantly observed that the centromedial nuclei appear to have extensions that project rostralward to become continuous with the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis. Johnston's concept of a multicompartmental amygdala, with striatal-like and cortical-like components, dominated thought about the structure and function of the amygdala for most of the twentieth century. Recently, it was suggested that the amygdala is not a single neurobiological entity, but is better conceived as a region where several distinct structures, each with affiliations with different systems, are in close proximity to each other. These current concepts and issues concerning the configuration of the amygdala are discussed in light of recent cytological, immunohistochemical, and connectional studies.
Neurodevelopmental disorders could be caused by maternal antibodies or other serum factors. We detected serum antibodies binding to rodent Purkinje cells and other neurons in a mother of three children: the first normal, the second with autism, and the third with a severe specific language disorder. We injected the serum (0.5-1.0 ml/day) into pregnant mice during gestation and found altered exploration and motor coordination and changes in cerebellar magnetic resonance spectroscopy in the mouse offspring, comparing with offspring of mice injected with sera from mothers of healthy children. This evidence supports a role for maternal antibodies in some forms of neurodevelopmental disorder.
Spinal cord injury causes secondary biochemical changes leading to neuronal cell death. To clarify the molecular basis of this delayed injury, we subjected rats to spinal cord injury and identified gene expression patterns by high-density oligonucleotide arrays (8,800 genes studied) at 30 minutes, 4 hours, 24 hours, or 7 days after injury (total of 26 U34A profiles). Detailed analyses were limited to 4,300 genes consistently expressed above background. Temporal clustering showed rapid expression of immediate early genes (30 minutes), followed by genes associated with inflammation, oxidative stress, DNA damage, and cell cycle (4 and 24 hours). Functional clustering showed a novel pattern of cell cycle mRNAs at 4 and 24 hours after trauma. Quantitative reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction verified mRNA changes in this group, which included gadd45a, c-myc, cyclin D1 and cdk4, pcna, cyclin G, Rb, and E2F5. Changes in their protein products were quantified by Western blot, and cell-specific expression was determined by immunocytochemistry. Cell cycle proteins showed an increased expression 24 hours after injury and were, in part, colocalized in neurons showing morphological evidence of apoptosis. These findings suggest that cell cycle-related genes, induced after spinal cord injury, are involved in neuronal damage and subsequent cell death.
There is currently no effective pharmacological treatment for amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS). Because evidence suggests that multiple pathways may contribute to ALS pathogenesis, we tested in a mouse model of ALS (SOD1(G37R) mice) a combination approach consisting of three drugs for distinct targets in the complex pathway to neuronal death: minocycline, an antimicrobial agent that inhibits microglial activation, riluzole, a glutamate antagonist, and nimodipine, a voltage-gated calcium channel blocker. The efficacy of this three-drug cocktail was remarkable when administered in the diet from late presymptomatic stage (8-9 months). It delayed the onset of disease, slowed the loss of muscle strength, and increased the average longevity of SOD1(G37R) mice by 6 weeks. The protective effect of the treatment was corroborated by the reduced immunodetection signals for markers of gliosis and neurodegeneration in the spinal cord of SOD1(G37R) mice. These results indicate that such three-drug combination may represent an effective strategy for ALS treatment.



Efforts in basic neuroscience and studies of rare hereditary neurological diseases are partly motivated by the hope that such work can lead to better understanding of and treatments for the common neurological disorders. An example is the progress that has resulted from identification of the genes that cause benign familial neonatal convulsions (BFNCs). Benign familial neonatal convulsions is a rare idiopathic, generalized epilepsy syndrome. In 1998, geneticists discovered that BFNC is caused by mutations in a novel potassium channel subunit, KCNQ2. Further work quickly revealed the sequences of 3 related brain channel genes KCNQ3, KCNQ4, and KCNQ5. Mutations in 2 of these genes were shown to cause BFNC (KCNQ3) and hereditary deafness (KCNQ4). Physiologists soon discovered that the KCNQ genes encoded subunits of the M-channel, a widely expressed potassium channel that mediates effects of modulatory neurotransmitters and controls repetitive neuronal discharges. Finally, pharmacologists discovered that the biological activities of 3 classes of compounds in development as treatments for Alzheimer disease, epilepsy, and stroke were mediated in part by effects on brain KCNQ channels. Cloned human KCNQ channels can now be used for high-throughput screening of additional drug candidates. Ongoing studies in humans and animal models will refine our understanding of KCNQ channel function and may reveal additional targets for therapeutic manipulation.

During the decade of the 1990s, health care reform, market forces, population needs, new knowledge in neuroscience and changes in advanced practice regulation provided the impetus for the development of the role of the psychiatric nurse practitioner. Debate about issues of role, scope of practice, educational preparation, titling, and credentialing for the advanced practice psychiatric nurse (APPN) of the future intensified as the American Nurses Credentialing Center (ANCC) proceeded with its controversial decision to develop a certification examination for the psychiatric nurse practitioner-in advance of consensus among advanced practice psychiatric nurses about those widely debated issues. Ironically, now that the ANCC adult and family psychiatric nurse practitioner (PMHNP) examinations exist, with test content outlines that clearly identify the professional standards and scope of practice relevant to the role of the certified psychiatric nurse practitioner, those contentious issues of role, scope of practice, educational preparation and credentialing (if not titling) seem considerably less thorny. In fact, by credentialing the role of the psychiatric nurse practitioner sooner rather than later, ANCC may have saved advanced practice psychiatric nursing for psychiatric nurses. This article proposes to (1). explain that assertion, (2). clarify what the scope of practice relevant to the newly certified role means in terms of credentialing requirements for existing types of psychiatric nurse practitioner, and (3). identify some of the controversies that linger with the debut of the PMHNP certification examination(s).
AM404 [ N-(4-hydroxyphenyl)arachidonylamide] and VDM 11 [(5 Z,8 Z,11 Z,14 Z)- N-(4-hydroxy-2-methylphenyl)-5,8,11,14-eicosatetraenamide] are commonly used to prevent the cellular accumulation of the endocannabinoid anandamide, and thereby to potentiate its actions. However, it has been reported that AM404 can produce an influx of calcium into cells, which might be expected to have deleterious effects on cell proliferation. In the present study, AM404 and VDM 11 were found to reduce C6 glioma cell proliferation with IC(50) values of 4.9 and 2.7 microM, respectively. The inhibition of cell proliferation following a 96-h exposure was not accompanied by dramatic caspase activation, and was not prevented by either a combination of cannabinoid and vanilloid receptor antagonists, or by the antioxidant alpha-tocopherol, suggestive of a non-specific mode of action. Similar results were seen with palmitoylisopropylamide, although this compound only produced significant inhibition of cell proliferation at 30 microM concentrations. AM404 (1 microM), VDM 11 (1 microM) and palmitoylisopropylamide (3-30 microM), i.e. concentrations producing relatively modest effects on cell proliferation per se, reduced the vanilloid receptor-mediated antiproliferative effects of anandamide, as would be expected for compounds preventing the cellular accumulation of anandamide (and thereby access to its binding site on the vanilloid receptor). It is concluded that concentrations of AM404 and VDM 11 that are generally used to reduce the cellular accumulation of anandamide have deleterious effects upon cell proliferation, and that lower concentrations of these compounds may be more appropriate to use in vitro.
Chronic cholestasis is characteristic of many human liver diseases. Renal injury has been often associated with this type of disease. The aim of this study was to evaluate the effect of cholestasis on kidney mitochondrial bioenergetics following in vivo chronic administration of alpha-naphthyl-isothiocyanate (ANIT), a known cholestatic agent. Serum markers of renal injury, kidney morphology and endogenous adenine nucleotides were measured in ANIT-treated rats (80 mg/kg per week s.c. for 16 weeks). Changes in membrane potential and mitochondrial respiration as well as alterations in mitochondrial calcium homeostasis were monitored. Cholestatic animals shown no alterations in renal morphology when compared with control. Additionally, following chronic ANIT administration, no significant alterations in mitochondrial respiratory function have been shown. The phosphorylation capacity of cholestatic kidney mitochondria was enhanced. Associated with these parameters, mitochondria from treated animals exhibited a decreased susceptibility to disruption of mitochondrial calcium homeostasis, due to permeability transition induction. These data suggest that, despite being submitted to chronic treatment with ANIT, kidney mitochondria from cholestasis-induced rats present some defense mechanisms to circumvent this aggression. They show improved phosphorylative capacity and, moreover, a decreased susceptibility to mitochondrial permeability transition induction, probably due to adaptative mechanisms of calcium transport.
Proliferation and turnover of neurons occurs in the olfactory systems of many animals. In this study, we examined developmental changes in turnover in the olfactory organ of the Caribbean spiny lobster Panulirus argus by examining two life-history stages-early juveniles and young adults. Turnover was compared using external morphology of the olfactory organ before and after molting to determine addition and loss of aesthetascs and other chemosensilla, and BrdU labeling to identify newly proliferated cells. The number of olfactory receptor neurons (ORNs) innervating each aesthetasc increased only slightly over development, but there was a net increase of olfactory sensory units (i.e. aesthetascs and their ORNs) at each molt. This increase was similar in early juveniles and young adults when expressed as absolute number of ORNs neurons but greater in early juveniles when expressed as a proportion of existing ORNs. The net increase in olfactory sensory units in early juveniles is due solely to addition, since virtually no aesthetascs are lost. In contrast, the net increase in olfactory sensory units in adults reflects addition of new units accompanied by considerable loss of old units. These developmental changes result in expansive enlargement of the olfactory organ without turnover in early juveniles, and a more modest growth combined with continuous turnover and replenishment of ORNs in adults.
A case of pleomorphic xanthoastrocytoma in a 10-year-old Malay boy is reported. The patient presented with headache and epilepsy. On computed tomography, a ring-enhancing low-density lesion was observed in the left fronto-temporal area. During surgery, a cystic tumour containing serous fluid was found and almost totally removed. Histologically, the tumour exhibited marked pleomorphism of oval and spindle-shaped cells intermixed with uni- and multinucleated giant cells, and xanthomatous cells with foamy cytoplasm. The tumour displayed pericellular reticulin and periodic acid-Schiff positive granules. Focally, six mitotic characters per 10 high-power fields were seen, and necrosis was confined only to the inner lining of the cyst. Mutational analysis showed that a frameshift mutation (a 4-bp deletion) in the p53 gene had occurred in codons 273 and 274 of exon 8. No mutation was detected in the p16 gene. No allelic loss and/or loss of heterozygosity were observed on chromosome 10 using microsatellite marker D105532. The patient was treated with postoperative radiotherapy because of histological anaplasia and the presence of residual tumour. The patient showed marked neurological recovery after a follow-up period of 2 years.

The authors examined the effects of sex and neonatal hormones on the response of pyramidal cells (Layer III, parietal cortex) to injury of the medial frontal cortex in the adult rat. At birth, males were gonadectomized (GDX) or sham-operated. Females were given testosterone (T) or oil injections. In adulthood, rats that had been left intact at birth were GDX, and they then received bilateral medial frontal cortex lesions or sham surgery. Rats not exposed to T at birth exhibited losses of dendritic arbor (males GDX at birth) or dendritic spine density (oil-treated females). Compensation after cortical injury is dependent on the rat's sex and history of exposure to gonadal steroids.
The epithelial sodium channel (ENaC) is of fundamental importance in the control of sodium fluxes in epithelial cells. Modulation of sodium reabsorption through the distal nephron ENaC is an important component in the overall control of sodium balance, blood volume and thereby of blood pressure. This is clearly demonstrated by rare genetic disorders of sodium-channel activity (Liddle's syndrome and pseudohypoaldosteronism type 1), associated with contrasting effects on blood pressure. The mineralocorticoid aldosterone is a well-established modulator of sodium-channel activity. Considerable insight has now been gained into the intracellular signalling pathways linking aldosterone-mediated changes in gene transcription with changes in ion transport. Activating pathways include aldosterone-induced proteins and especially the serum- and glucocorticoid-inducible kinase (SGK) and the small G-protein, K-Ras 2A. Targeting of the ENaC for endocytosis and degradation is now emerging as a major mechanism for the down-regulation of channel activity. Several proteins acting in concert are an intrinsic part of this process but Nedd4 (neural precursor cell expressed developmentally down-regulated 4) is of central importance. Other mechanisms known to interact with ENaC and affect sodium transport include channel-activating protease 1 (CAP-1), a membrane-anchored protein, and the cystic fibrosis transmembrane regulator. The implications of research on accessory factors controlling ENaC activity are wide-ranging. Understanding cellular mechanisms controlling ENaC activity may provide a more detailed insight not only of ion-channel abnormalities in cystic fibrosis but also of the link between abnormal renal sodium transport and essential hypertension.
Protagonists for 'the public understanding of science' still sometimes fail to recognize that there is also a need for 'the scientists' understanding of the public' and that for most of science most of the time we are all public. 'Science' is communicated to 'the public' through popular books, museums, TV, the Internet, but far too often the present state of scientific belief is presented uncritically as the onward march of truth as discovered by Euro-American males. This has contributed to a widespread public concern, if not mistrust, in many areas of science, not least genetics and neuroscience. Although researchers often criticize the media for misrepresenting their work, the hype and simplifications often begin with the press releases put out by the researchers, their institutions and the scientific journals themselves. I conclude by looking more optimistically at the ways in which, by bringing natural science into theatre, novels and other art forms, the fragmentation of our culture may be diminished.
Neurofilaments are one of the major components of the neuronal cytoskeleton and are responsible for maintaining the calibre of axons. They are modified by post-translational changes that are regulated in complex fashions including by the interaction with neighbouring glial cells. Neurofilament accumulations are seen in several neurological diseases and neurofilament mutations have now been associated with Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease, Parkinson's disease and amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. In this review, we discuss the structure, normal function and molecular pathology of neurofilaments.

The intrinsic dynamics of bipolar cells and rod photoreceptors isolated from tiger salamanders were studied by a patch-clamp technique combined with estimation of effective impulse responses across a range of mean membrane voltages. An increase in external K(+) reduces the gain and speeds the response in bipolar cells near and below resting potential. High external K(+) enhances the inward rectification of membrane potential, an effect mediated by a fast, hyperpolarization-activated, inwardly rectifying potassium current (K(IR)). External Cs(+) suppresses the inward-rectifying effect of external K(+). The reversal potential of the current, estimated by a novel method from a family of impulse responses below resting potential, indicates a channel that is permeable predominantly to K(+). Its permeability to Na(+), estimated from Goldman-Hodgkin-Katz voltage equation, was negligible. Whereas the activation of the delayed-rectifier K(+) current causes bandpass behavior (i.e., undershoots in the impulse responses) in bipolar cells, activation of the K(IR) current does not. In contrast, a slow hyperpolarization-activated current (I(h)) in rod photoreceptors leads to pronounced, slow undershoots near resting potential. Differences in the kinetics and ion selectivity of hyperpolarization-activated currents in bipolar cells (K(IR)) and in rod photoreceptors (I(h)) confer different dynamical behavior onto the two types of neurons.


The objective of the study was to highlight the diagnostic challenge of this elusive rare disease. A retrospective study of non-tuberculous spinal epidural abscesses (SEA) was carried out in Southern General Hospital, Glasgow, University Hospital of Wales, Cardiff, and Morriston Hospital, Swansea, from 1990 to 2000. Thirty-nine patients, consisting of 20 females and 19 males, with an age range from 20 to 85 years (mean: 61.1) were identified. Thirty-eight had localized back/neck pain. Eighteen were apyrexial. Twenty-nine demonstrated neurological deficit. All patients had raised inflammatory markers and gadolinium-enhanced magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) was diagnostic in 34. The most commonly identified organism was Staphylococcus aureus. All underwent surgical decompression, of which 13 required stabilization. Three died, seven lacked sphincter control and nine had motor deficit at the end of 1 year. It was concluded that fever is not mandatory for the diagnosis of SEA. Patients with localized back/neck pain and raised inflammatory markers need urgent MRI.
The rationale for 'awake' resective brain tumour surgery and brain mapping is that the amount of tumour removed is optimized, and risks of damage to adjacent eloquent brain minimized by intraoperative patient assessments. Both goals are generally attained, but occasionally patients may have iatrogenic postoperative deficits. Five such cases (20%) are described from a consecutive series of 25 awake craniotomies. These patient fell into three distinct clinical categories; those (n = 2) who developed sensory-motor deficits that were recognized intraoperatively; those (n = 2) who had deficits that were apparent only on postoperative testing; and one patient who developed a sudden deficit with no warning. The former four patients had deficits that recovered within weeks to months (16%), but the latter one (4%) was left with a severe focal motor disability. These cases highlight both the benefits and limitations of awake craniotomy and intraoperative assessment. Although sensory-motor deficits can be recognized early, some high-level neurological functions may not be readily assessed intraoperatively and vascular catastrophes may occur without warning. The pathophysiological basis of these iatrogenic neurological deficits, and techniques to minimize such problems are discussed.
1. The aim of this study was to define the P1 purinergic receptors that regulate spontaneous or adenosine-induced duodenal motor activity. 2. Spontaneous contractile activity was recorded isometrically from possum longitudinal duodenal muscle strips. Adenosine (0.5 micro M-1 mM) was administered noncumulatively and repeated after pretreatment with a P1 antagonist or tetrodotoxin (TTX, 1 micro M), (n=4-7). Antagonists used were: A(1), 8-cyclopentyl-1,3-dipropylxanthine (DPCPX, 10 nM); A(2A), 8-(3-chlorostyryl)caffeine (CSC, 10 micro M); A(2B), 3-isobutyl-8-pyrrolidinoxanthine (IPDX, 10 micro M); A(3), 9-chloro-2-(2-furanyl)-5-[(phenylacetyl) amino][1,2,4]-triazolo(1,5-c)quinazoline (MRS1220, 10 micro M). Changes in activity are expressed as percentage of baseline. Statistical analysis utilised nonparametric tests. 3. Adenosine (n=34) induced a long-lasting, concentration-dependent decrease in activity by 55.6+/-3.2% area under curve (AUC), 47.3+/-4.0% contraction amplitude, 31.6+/-3.6% basal tension and 10.4+/-1.7% contraction frequency (all P&lt;0.001). The adenosine-induced decrease in contraction amplitude was blocked by CSC (P&lt;0.01) or inhibited by MRS1220 (P&lt;0.03) pretreatment, but not modified by TTX, DPCPX or IPDX pretreatment. 4. Adenosine antagonists modified spontaneous contractile activity. Pretreatment with DPCPX or CSC increased basal tension, whereas IPDX or MRS1220 pretreatment decreased contractile activity. 5. In conclusion, exogenous adenosine reduced duodenal longitudinal motor activity via A(2A) and A(3) receptors. Our findings suggest that endogenous purines may modulate spontaneous duodenal motor activity.
1. Muscarinic agonist specificity is limited, making it difficult to match receptor subtypes with signal transduction cascades that mediate ion channel modulation. We have characterized the inhibitory effects of two muscarinic agonists, oxotremorine-M (Oxo-M) and bethanechol chloride (BeCh), on Ca(2+) currents in neonatal rat superior cervical ganglion neurons. 2. Oxo-M-mediated (10 micro M) inhibition occurred via two signaling pathways. The first pathway inhibited whole cell peak currents, consisting primarily of N-type current, but not FPL 64176-induced, long-lasting tail currents, comprised entirely of L-type current. Inhibited currents displayed slowed activation kinetics and voltage dependence, characteristics of membrane-delimited inhibition. Current inhibition was blocked by the selective M(2) receptor antagonist, methoctramine (METH; 100 nM), or following pertussis toxin (PTX) pretreatment. 3. Activation of the second pathway inhibited both peak and long-lasting tail currents. This pathway was voltage-independent, PTX-insensitive, but sensitive to internal Ca(2+) chelator concentration. Muscarinic toxin 7 (MT-7, 100 nM), an irreversible M(1) receptor antagonist, eliminated this inhibition. Oxo-M (100 micro M) decreased L- and N-type channel activities in cell-attached patches, indicating that a diffusible second messenger is involved. 4. BeCh (100 micro M) also inhibited whole cell currents via the membrane-delimited pathway. Blocking M(4) receptors with 100 nM pirenzepine (in the presence of MT-7) had no effect, while antagonizing M(2) receptors with METH abolished inhibition. Concentrations of BeCh as high as 3 mM failed to inhibit either peak or long-lasting tail currents following PTX pretreatment. 5. These results indicate that BeCh may be an effective tool for selectively activating M(2) receptor stimulation of the membrane-delimited pathway.


Right hemisphere dominance in face processing is well established and unilateral right inferior temporo-occipital damage can result in prosopagnosia. Here, we describe a 21-year-old right-handed woman with acute impairment in face recognition that selectively concerned unfamiliar faces, following a focal left lateral temporo-occipital venous infarct. She was severely impaired in discerning that unknown people seen in everyday life were unfamiliar, although she had no difficulty recognizing familiar people. Thus, she had no prosopagnosia, but abnormal 'hyperfamiliarity' for unknown faces. Her difficulty was not accompanied by delusions or deficits in discrimination, identification or memory for faces. Standard neuropsychological testing showed that her recognition of familiar faces was entirely normal. By contrast, her sense of personally knowing faces was severely impaired when unknown faces evoked weak signals of familiarity based on spurious cues, to the extent that she would misattribute fame to faces that were unknown but to which she had been incidentally exposed on a prior occasion. Priming experiments also revealed that, unlike normal subjects, she made familiarity judgements without accessing semantic identity representations. Moreover, in face recognition tests, she generally showed bias in that she relied more on right-hemisphere strategies to identify global traits and less on left-hemisphere processes compared with healthy subjects. This case provides novel evidence for a differential contribution of the two hemispheres to face recognition. Hyperfamiliarity for unknown faces might arise from an imbalance between reciprocal hemispheric functions in face recognition, with relative hypoactivation of left hemisphere processes but hyperactivation of right-hemisphere processes for retrieving stored associations about people, linking seen faces to representations of affective and personal relevance. Hence, abnormal bias in attributing some personal meaning to unknown faces could be evoked by spurious signals of familiarity based on irrelevant affective associations in the right hemisphere.
Age-related neurodegenerative and neurochemical changes are thought to underlie decline in motor and cognitive functions, but compensatory processes in cortical and subcortical function may allow maintenance of performance level in some people. Our objective was to investigate age-related changes in the motor system of the human brain using functional MRI. Twenty six right handed volunteers were scanned whilst performing an isometric, dynamic, visually paced hand grip task, using dominant (right) and non-dominant (left) hands in separate sessions. Hand grip with visual feedback activated a network of cortical and subcortical regions known to be involved in the generation of simple motor acts. In addition, activation was seen in a putative human 'grasping circuit', involving rostral ventral premotor cortex (Brodmann area 44) and intraparietal sulcus. Within this network, a number of regions were more likely to be activated the older the subject. In particular, age-related changes in task- specific activations were demonstrated in left deep anterior central sulcus when using the dominant or non-dominant hand. Additional age-related increases were seen in caudal dorsal premotor cortex, caudal cingulate sulcus, intraparietal sulcus, insula, frontal operculum and cerebellar vermis. We have demonstrated a clear age-related effect in the neural correlates of motor performance, and furthermore suggest that these changes are non-linear. These results support the notion that an adaptable and plastic motor network is able to respond to age-related degenerative changes in order to maintain performance levels.
A multiple case study was conducted in order to assess three leading theories of developmental dyslexia: (i) the phonological theory, (ii) the magnocellular (auditory and visual) theory and (iii) the cerebellar theory. Sixteen dyslexic and 16 control university students were administered a full battery of psychometric, phonological, auditory, visual and cerebellar tests. Individual data reveal that all 16 dyslexics suffer from a phonological deficit, 10 from an auditory deficit, four from a motor deficit and two from a visual magnocellular deficit. Results suggest that a phonological deficit can appear in the absence of any other sensory or motor disorder, and is sufficient to cause a literacy impairment, as demonstrated by five of the dyslexics. Auditory disorders, when present, aggravate the phonological deficit, hence the literacy impairment. However, auditory deficits cannot be characterized simply as rapid auditory processing problems, as would be predicted by the magnocellular theory. Nor are they restricted to speech. Contrary to the cerebellar theory, we find little support for the notion that motor impairments, when found, have a cerebellar origin or reflect an automaticity deficit. Overall, the present data support the phonological theory of dyslexia, while acknowledging the presence of additional sensory and motor disorders in certain individuals.
