Tottering mice are a spontaneously occurring animal model of human absence epilepsy. They carry a mutation in the P/Q-type calcium channel alpha1A subunit gene which is highly expressed by cerebellar Purkinje cells. In this study, we investigated the role of calretinin and ryanodine receptor type 1 (RyR1) gene expression in the cerebellum of tottering mice. Cerebellar tissue specimens from four experimental groups were processed for in situ hybridization histochemistry (ISHH): (1) wild-type (+/+); (2) heterozygous (tg/+) and two homozygous groups; either (3) without occurrence of an episode of paroxysmal dyskinesia (tg/tg-N); or (4) after an episode of paroxysmal dyskinesia (tg/tg-P) that lasted about 45 min on average. Quantitative analysis showed a statistically significant decrease (p = 0.0001, ANOVA) of calretinin gene expression at the level of the simple lobule of the cerebellum in both homozygous groups compared to the wild-type and heterozygous groups. RyR1 was decreased in the flocculus of the cerebellum in both the tg/tg-N and tg/tg-P groups compared to wild type (p = 0.0174, ANOVA). These results suggest that calretinin gene expression, as well as other genes involved in regulation of calcium homeostasis, such as RyR1, may play a role in the biochemical functional alterations present in tottering mice.
Semliki Forest virus (SFV), Sindbis virus (SIN), and Venezuelan equine encephalitis virus are simple, enveloped plus-strand RNA viruses belonging to the Alphavirus genus of the Togaviridae family. They have been developed into expression vectors that infect a wide host cell range and cause rapid and high-level transgene expression. Their easy and fast generation, classification into biosafety levels 1 and 2, and preferential transduction of neurons in cell and tissue cultures makes them an increasingly used gene transfer system. This review summarizes the alphaviral replication and expression, the replicon system, and its application in neurobiology. Alphaviral vectors can introduce multiple transgenes into host cells, and mutants with low or absent cytotoxicity and increased or decreased transgene expression levels are available. Temperature-dependent mutants permit to control the host cell specificity as well as the on- and offset of gene expression. These features, together with the transduction characteristics revealed in a direct comparison of alphaviral and other viral vectors in hippocampal slice cultures, make SFV and SIN vectors a powerful tool for neurobiological studies.
Rafael Lorente de N is one of the towering neuroscientists of the 20th century. He was born in Zaragoza, Spain, in 1902. In 1920, he moved to Madrid where he became the youngest, and eventually the best known, of Ramn y Cajal's disciples. In his youth, Lorente de N worked with Oskar and Ccile Vogt in Germany and with Robert Brny in Sweden. In 1934, he moved to the United States, where he first worked at the Central Institute for the Deaf (CID); in 1936, he was invited by Herbert S. Gasser to work at the Rockefeller Institute. After his formal retirement from this institute in 1972, Lorente de N spent 5 years at the Head and Neck Surgery Department and Brain Research Institute of the University of California at Los Angeles. He died in Tucson, Arizona, in 1990. Lorente de N was a gifted person: a polyglot with a remarkable memory and a versatile intellect, which together with his strong, almost belligerent character, made him a rather controversial human. The strength of his scientific contributions is evident by their current impact. Among these are: the modular (i.e., columnar) organization of the cerebral cortex, the synaptic delay, nerve volume conduction, synaptic summation, and the cybernetic (feed-back) neuron circuit. The present article provides a comment upon some of his neurohistological studies (including the cerebral isocortex, Ammon's horn, brainstem, and spinal cord), highlighted by transcripts from taped conversations with him, and illustrated by reproductions of some of his original figures.
Amyloid beta-peptide (Abeta) effectively inhibits the cellular reduction activity of 3-(4,5-dimethylthiazol-2-yl)-2,5-diphenyltetrazolium bromide (MTT) in a variety of cultured cells. Although the inhibitory activity is widely used for the estimation of the biological activity of Abeta, the cellular mechanism is unclear. In the present study, we examined the effect of Abeta on the morphology of early endosomes, in which MTT is accumulated as MTT formazan after cellular reduction. We found that Abeta1-40 alters the distribution of Rab5- and early endosomal auto-antigen 1-positive early endosomes in the presence of MTT in HeLa cells, which are susceptible to the Abeta1-40-induced inhibition of cellular MTT reduction. To obtain a clue to the molecular mechanism, we determined whether Abeta1-40 affects the signal cascade of the phosphatidylinositol-3-OH kinase (PI-3K) pathway that is involved in early endosomal trafficking. MTT induced phosphorylation of Akt and mitogen-activated protein kinase. Abeta1-40 suppressed the PI-3K-dependent Akt phosphorylation but not the mitogen-activated protein kinase phosphorylation. Thus, Abeta seems to modulate early endosomal trafficking via inhibition of the PI-3K pathway in the presence of MTT. Modulation of early endosomal trafficking appears to affect the cellular metabolism of MTT, causing suppression of cellular MTT reduction by Abeta. These findings may help clarify the mechanism of the cytotoxicity of Abeta.
Cyclin-dependent kinase 5 (cdk5) is involved in the development of the nervous system and neuronal process outgrowth, and it regulates several intracellular processes including cytoskeletal dynamics. Dysregulation of cdk5 has been implicated in many disorders of the nervous system. The activity of the kinase is regulated by binding of cdk5 activators (p35, p39, p67). We examined the phosphorylation of p35, and the role of phosphorylation in regulating the proteolysis of the p35 protein. By detecting changes in electrophoretic mobility, we observed that a significant proportion of p35 is phosphorylated in rat brain tissue. In cultured neurons, the phosphorylation was prevented by roscovitine, an inhibitor of cdk5 and some other cdks. The phosphatase inhibitor okadaic acid induced p35 degradation in neuronal cultures which was sensitive to the proteasome inhibitor lactacystin. These latter results agree with some previous studies showing that phosphorylation regulates proteasomal degradation of p35. Treatment of brain homogenate with okadaic acid in the presence of ATP led to accumulation of p35 phosphorylated also by a kinase that was not inhibited by roscovitine. This implies that the effect of okadaic acid on p35 degradation could also be contributed by a non-cdk kinase. The calpain protease has been shown to cleave p35. Our results suggest that this process may also be modulated by p35 phosphorylation under some conditions. We conclude that p35 phosphorylation influences the proteasome-mediated degradation of p35 and calpain-mediated cleavage of p35 to p25.
S100B is a small calcium- and zinc-binding protein expressed by astrocytes in the central nervous system. Here, we examined the role of S100B in epileptogenesis using an amygdala kindling paradigm comparing S100B knockout mice with their wild-type counterparts. Astrocyte activation following kindling, assessed by glial fibrillary acidic protein expression in the hippocampus and amygdala, was similar in wild-type and knockout mice. In addition, wild-type and knockout mice did not have substantially different afterdischarge thresholds. However, knockout mice kindled more rapidly and exhibited more severe seizures. These results implicate normal levels of S100B in the attenuation of epileptogenesis.
Cytosolic phospholipase A(2) (cPLA(2)) stimulates the hydrolysis of sn-2 ester bond in membrane phospholipids releasing arachidonic acid (AA) and lysophospholipids. The present study examined the effect of methylmercury (MeHg) on cPLA(2) activation and AA release in primary cultures of neonatal rat cerebral astrocytes. Astrocytes were preloaded overnight at 37 degrees C with 3H-AA to metabolically label phospholipids. The effect of MeHg on the activation of cPLA(2) was measured by the release of 3H-AA from astrocytes over 120 min. MeHg (5 microM) caused a significant increase in AA release at 10, 30, 60, and 120 min, whereas 2.5 microM MeHg significantly increased AA release only at 120 min. MeHg-induced increase in 3H-AA release was due to cPLA(2) activation, since arachidonyl trifluoromethyl ketone (AACOCF(3)), a selective inhibitor of cPLA(2), completely abolished MeHg's effect. Consistent with these observations, MeHg (5.0 and 10.0 microM) increased cPLA(2) mRNA (6 h) and cPLA(2) protein expression (5.0 and 10.0 microM; 24 h). The time-course of these effects suggests an immediate direct or indirect effect of MeHg on cPLA(2) activation and 3H-AA release as well as a long-term effect involving the induction of cPLA(2). Thin layer chromatographic analysis of 3H-AA-labeled phospholipids showed that MeHg-stimulated astrocyte 3H-AA release was not due to increased incorporation of 3H-AA into the putative substrates of cPLA(2). These results invoke cPLA(2) as a putative target for MeHg toxicity, and support the notion that cPLA(2)-stimulated hydrolysis and release of AA play a critical role in MeHg-induced neurotoxicity.
Dd-TRAP1 is a Dictyostelium homologue of TRAP-1, a human protein that binds to the type 1 tumor necrosis factor (TNF) receptor. TRAP-1 has a putative mitochondrial localization sequence and shows significant homology to members of the HSP90 family. Although TRAP-1 is mainly localized to mitochondria in several mammalian cells, in certain tissues it is also localized at specific extramitochondrial sites. In Dictyostelium cells, Dd-TRAP1 is predominantly located in the cell membrane/cortex during growth and just after starvation. Double staining of vegetatively growing cells with the anti-Dd-TRAP1 antibody and TRITC-phalloidin has demonstrated colocalization of Dd-TRAP1 and F-actin at the leading edge of cortical protrusions such as pseudopodes. Coupled with differentiation, however, Dd-TRAP1 located at the cortical region is translocated to mitochondria in spite of the absence of the mitochondrial localization sequence at its N-terminus. The translocation of this protein raises interesting and fundamental questions regarding possible mechanisms by which Dd-TRAP1 is involved in cellular differentiation.
Loss-of-function mutations in the parkin gene were first identified in autosomal recessive juvenile parkinsonism (AR-JP). Subsequently, parkin mutations were found in many early-onset patients with Parkinson's disease (PD) (&lt;45 years at onset). We hypothesized that parkin gene expression also may contribute to the age-associated risk of idiopathic PD (&gt;50 years at onset). Two single-nucleotide polymorphisms within the parkin core promoter have been identified and assessed. We show one of the variants, -258 T/G, is located in a region of DNA that binds nuclear protein from human substantia nigra in vitro and functionally affects gene transcription. Furthermore, the -258 T/G polymorphism is genetically associated with idiopathic PD, as assessed in a large population-based series of cases and controls. Our results further implicate the parkin gene in the development of Parkinson's disease.
Neuronal calcium sensor 1 (NCS-1) belongs to a family of EF-hand calcium-binding proteins and is mainly expressed in neurons and neuroendocrine cells, where it causes facilitation of neurotransmitter release through unknown mechanisms. The yeast homologue of NCS-1 has been demonstrated to interact with and regulate the activity of yeast phosphatidylinositol 4-OH kinase beta (PI4Kbeta). However, in neurons and neurosecretory cells NCS-1 has not unequivocally been shown to interact with PI4Kbeta. Here we have compared the subcellular distribution of NCS-1 and PI4Kbeta and investigated whether they are capable of forming complexes. In neurons, both proteins are widely distributed and are present in perikarya and, to a lesser extent, in nerve terminals. A consistent portion of NCS-1 and PIK4beta is cytosolic, whereas a portion of both proteins appears to be associated with the membranes of the endoplasmic reticulum and the Golgi complex. Very small amounts of NCS-1 and PI4Kbeta are present in synaptic vesicles. Our results further demonstrate that in neurosecretory cells, endogenous NCS-1 and PIK4beta interact to form a complex that can be immunoisolated from membrane as well as from cytosolic fractions. Moreover, both proteins can be recruited to membranes when cells are treated with nucleotide receptor agonists known to increase polyphosphoinositide turnover and concomitantly induce exocytosis of secretory vesicles. Finally, in PC12 cells overexpressing NCS-1, the amount of PI4Kbeta associated with the membranes is increased concomitantly with the increased levels of NCS-1 detected in the same membrane fractions. Together, these findings demonstrate that mammalian NCS-1 and PI4Kbeta interact under physiological conditions, which suggest a possible role for NCS-1 in the translocation of PI4Kbeta to target membranes.
Fifteen HIV-infected patients who presented with new onset seizures (NOS) as the sole neurological manifestation, in whom no cause for the seizure was identifiable, were studied. The patients were mainly female with an average age of 31.3 years. They had generalised new onset seizures with a latency of 1.6 months between the discovery of the HIV positivity and the onset of the seizure. The neurological examinations were normal with no dementia. The electroencephalographic examinations were either normal or there was a generalised epileptic disturbance (GED). The patients have AIDS defining CD4+ T lymphocyte cell counts. There was a high prevalence of pulmonary tuberculosis (PTB) or multiple non-neurological illnesses in our study group. They have normal cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) analysis except for the presence of the HIV virus. All the patients have normal computerised tomogram (CT)/magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) scans of the brain. All the patients studied have abnormal right or left temporal lobe perfusion defects on the SPECT scan studies of the brain. The findings suggest that the new onset seizures in the HIV-infected patients are associated with direct HIV infection. The SPECT scan findings suggest that the HIV virus induce a focal metabolic abnormality or encephalopathy. The new onset seizure is then the manifestation of this abnormality.
Basal extracellular glutamate sampled in vivo is present in micromolar concentrations in the extracellular space outside the synaptic cleft, and neither the origin nor the function of this glutamate is known. This report reveals that blockade of glutamate release from the cystine-glutamate antiporter produced a significant decrease (60%) in extrasynaptic glutamate levels in the rat striatum, whereas blockade of voltage-dependent Na+ and Ca2+ channels produced relatively minimal changes (0-30%). This indicates that the primary origin of in vivo extrasynaptic glutamate in the striatum arises from nonvesicular glutamate release by the cystine-glutamate antiporter. By measuring [35S]cystine uptake, it was shown that similar to vesicular release, the activity of the cystine-glutamate antiporter is negatively regulated by group II metabotropic glutamate receptors (mGluR2/3) via a cAMP-dependent protein kinase mechanism. Extracellular glutamate derived from the antiporter was shown to regulate extracellular levels of glutamate and dopamine. Infusion of the mGluR2/3 antagonist (RS)-1-amino-5-phosphonoindan-1-carboxylic acid (APICA) increased extracellular glutamate levels, and previous blockade of the antiporter prevented the APICA-induced rise in extracellular glutamate. This suggests that glutamate released from the antiporter is a source of endogenous tone on mGluR2/3. Blockade of the antiporter also produced an increase in extracellular dopamine that was reversed by infusing the mGluR2/3 agonist (2R,4R)-4-aminopyrrolidine-2,4-dicarboxlylate, indicating that antiporter-derived glutamate can modulate dopamine transmission via mGluR2/3 heteroreceptors. These results suggest that nonvesicular release from the cystine-glutamate antiporter is the primary source of in vivo extracellular glutamate and that this glutamate can modulate both glutamate and dopamine transmission.
It has been shown recently that extinction of conditional fear does not depend acutely on NMDA-type glutamate receptors, although other evidence has led to the hypothesis that L-type voltage-gated calcium channels (LVGCCs) play a role in conditional fear. We therefore tested the role of LVGCCs in the acquisition, expression, and extinction of conditional fear of cue and context in mice. Using systemic injections of two LVGCC inhibitors, nifedipine and nimodipine, which both effectively cross the blood-brain barrier, we show that LVGCCs are essential for the extinction, but not for the acquisition or expression, of conditional fear in mice.
Pharmacological and imaging studies indicate that the prefrontal cortex and nucleus accumbens and their dopamine innervation are central elements of the pathophysiology of schizophrenia. Although symptoms typically appear in young adults, a developmental component has been suggested, primarily in the hippocampus. A neonatal hippocampal lesion in rats and monkeys produces changes resembling schizophrenia symptoms only after the animals reach adulthood, indicating that this procedure could be used as a developmental animal model of this disorder. Here, we explored whether the dopamine projection to the nucleus accumbens becomes functionally altered in these animals. In vivo intracellular recordings revealed abnormal responses in accumbens neurons to activation of their dopamine afferents in adult but not prepubertal animals with a neonatal lesion. This alteration was absent after antipsychotic drug treatment. These results indicate that neonatal hippocampal damage can result in delayed functional deficits in the mesolimbic system, providing a link between the developmental hippocampal deficit and altered dopamine systems postulated to occur in schizophrenia.
The hyperpolarization-activated excitatory current I(h) shapes rhythmic firing and other components of excitability in differentiating neurons, and may thus influence activity-dependent CNS development. We therefore studied developmental changes in I(h) and underlying hyperpolarization-activated cyclic nucleotide-gated (HCN) channel subunits in pyramidal neurons of neonatal mouse hippocampus using electrophysiological and immunofluorescence approaches. I(h) conductance (at -80 mV) tripled in CA3 neurons and quintupled in CA1 neurons between postnatal day 1 (P1) and P20; parallel changes in membrane area resulted in current density maxima at P5 in CA3 and P10 in CA1. Concurrently, I(h) activation times fell sevenfold in CA3 and 10-fold in CA1. A computational model indicates that a decrease in I(h) activation time will increase the rhythmic firing rate. Two mechanisms contributed to more rapid I(h) activation at P20 in CA3 and CA1 neurons: a fall in the intrinsic time constants of two kinetic components, tau(fast) and tau(slow), to 35-40% (at -90 mV) of their P1 values, and a preferential increase in fast component amplitude and contribution to I(h) (from approximately 35% to approximately 74% of total). HCN1, HCN2, and HCN4 immunoreactivities showed independent temporal and spatial developmental patterns. HCN1 immunoreactivity was low at P1 and P5 and increased by P20. HCN2 immunoreactivity was detected at P1 and increased steadily up to P20. HCN4 immunoreactivity was initially low and showed a small increase by P20. We suggest that developmental increases in I(h) amplitude and activation rate reflect changes in the number and underlying structure of I(h) channels, and that I(h) maturation may shape rhythmic activity important for hippocampal circuit maturation.
Transgenic mice were generated to permit the targeted ablation of cortical preplate cells at the time they are born. In these mice, the 1.3 kb golli promoter of the myelin basic protein gene was used to drive the herpes simplex virus thymidine kinase (TK) transgene in cortical preplate cells. Heterozygous transgenic pairs were bred, and pregnant dams were treated with ganciclovir at embryonic days 11-12 to ablate preplate cells at the time the preplate was forming. This paradigm exposed control (TK-) and experimental (TK+) littermates to exactly the same conditions. Embryological ablation of preplate cells led to an early disruption of the radial glial framework and subplate structure in the developing cortex and dramatically altered the cellular lamination and connectivity of the cortical plate. The disturbed radial glial network contributed to an impaired radial migration of neurons into the cortical plate from the ventricular zone. The cortical plate became dyslaminated, and there was a substantial reduction in short- and long-range cortical projections within the cortex and to subcortical regions. Cell death within the cortical plate and the proliferative zones was substantially increased in the ablated animals. After birth, a cortical lesion developed, which became exacerbated with the secondary onset of hydrocephaly in the second postnatal week. The results underscore the critical importance of the preplate in cortex formation, mediated through its guidance of the formation of radial glial scaffolding, subsequent neuronal migration into the incipient cortical plate, and the final arrangement of its vertical organization and cellular connectivity.
We describe a novel method for recovering the three-dimensional (3D) point geometry of an object from images acquired with a single-camera. Typically, multiple cameras are used to record 3D geometry. Occasionally, however, there is a need to record 3D geometry when the use of multiple cameras is either too costly or impractical. The algorithm described here uses single-camera images and requires in addition that each marker on the object be linked to at least one other marker by a known distance. The linkage distances are used to recover information about the third dimension that would otherwise be lost in single-camera two-dimensional images. The utilities of the method are its low-cost, simplicity, and ease of calibration and implementation. We were able to estimate 3D distances and positions as accurately as with a commercially available multi-camera 3D system. This method may be useful in pilot studies to determine whether 3D imaging systems are required, or, it can serve as a low-cost alternative to multi-camera systems.
The potential application of neural transplantation to many neurodegenerative disorders at early stages of disease progression would involve middle-aged and aged persons. Hence, it is important to examine critically the extent of graft cell survival in both intact and partially deafferented middle-aged and aged brain. We investigated the degree of survival of 5'-bromodeoxyuridine (BrdU)-labeled fetal hippocampal CA3 cells after grafting into both intact hippocampus and partially deafferented hippocampus (i.e., hippocampus contralateral to intracerebroventricular administration of kainic acid) of middle-aged and aged Fischer 344 rats. Absolute cell survival within these grafts was rigorously analyzed using BrdU immunostaining of serial sections and the optical fractionator cell counting method. In the intact hippocampus, graft cell survival was 23% of injected cells for middle-aged rats and 18% for aged rats, which is consistent with the survival of fetal hippocampal cells in the intact young adult hippocampus reported earlier (Shetty and Turner [1995] Neuroscience 67:561-582). A partial deafferentation at the time of grafting significantly enhanced the degree of graft cell survival to 35% of injected cells in the middle-aged hippocampus and 27% in the aged hippocampus. However, the overall graft cell survival after deafferentation was significantly (30%) greater in the middle-aged hippocampus compared with the aged hippocampus. These results reveal that 1) the degree of survival of fetal neural cells in the intact mature brain remains constant with aging and 2) a partial deafferentation of the mature host brain at the time of grafting enhances survival of grafted fetal cells, regardless of the host age. However, the overall extent of graft cell survival after deafferentation depends on the age of the mature brain at the time of deafferentation.
Astronauts returning to Earth have reduced orthostatic tolerance and exercise capacity. Alterations in autonomic nervous system and neuromuscular function after spaceflight might contribute to this problem. In this study, we tested the hypothesis that exposure to microgravity impairs autonomic neural control of sympathetic outflow in response to peripheral afferent stimulation produced by handgrip and a cold pressor test in humans. We studied five astronauts approximately 72 and 23 days before, and on landing day after the 16 day Neurolab (STS-90) space shuttle mission, and four of the astronauts during flight (day 12 or 13). Heart rate, arterial pressure and peroneal muscle sympathetic nerve activity (MSNA) were recorded before and during static handgrip sustained to fatigue at 40 % of maximum voluntary contraction, followed by 2 min of circulatory arrest pre-, in- and post-flight. The cold pressor test was applied only before (five astronauts) and during flight (day 12 or 13, four astronauts). Mean (+/- S.E.M.) baseline heart rates and arterial pressures were similar among pre-, in- and post-flight measurements. At the same relative fatiguing force, the peak systolic pressure and mean arterial pressure during static handgrip were not different before, during and after spaceflight. The peak diastolic pressure tended to be higher post- than pre-flight (112 +/- 6 vs. 99 +/- 5 mmHg, P = 0.088). Contraction-induced rises in heart rate were similar pre-, in- and post-flight. MSNA was higher post-flight in all subjects before static handgrip (26 +/- 4 post- vs. 15 +/- 4 bursts min(-1) pre-flight, P = 0.017). Contraction-evoked peak MSNA responses were not different before, during, and after spaceflight (41 +/- 4, 38 +/- 5 and 46 +/- 6 bursts min(-1), all P &gt; 0.05). MSNA during post-handgrip circulatory arrest was higher post- than pre- or in-flight (41 +/- 1 vs. 33 +/- 3 and 30 +/- 5 bursts min(-1), P = 0.038 and 0.036). Similarly, responses of MSNA and blood pressure to the cold pressor test were well maintained in-flight. We conclude that modulation of muscle sympathetic neural outflow by muscle metaboreceptors and skin nociceptors is preserved during short duration spaceflight.
Paired recordings between CA3 interconnected pyramidal neurons were used to study the properties of short-term depression occurring in these synapses under different frequencies of presynaptic firing (n = 22). In stationary conditions (0.05-0.067 Hz) pairs of presynaptic action potentials (50 ms apart) evoked EPSCs whose amplitude fluctuated from trial to trial with occasional response failures. In 15/20 cells, paired-pulse ratio (PPR) was characterized by facilitation (PPF) while in the remaining five by depression (PPD). Increasing stimulation frequency from 0.05-0.067 Hz to 0.1-1 Hz induced low frequency depression (LFD) of EPSC amplitude with a gradual increase in the failure rate. Overall, 9/12 cells at 1 Hz became almost &quot;silent&quot;. In six cells in which the firing rate was sequentially shifted from 0.05 to 0.1 and 1 Hz, changes in synaptic efficacy were so strong that PPR shifted from PPF to PPD. The time course of depression of EPSC1 could be fitted with single exponentials with time constants of 98 and 36 s at 0.1 and 1 Hz, respectively. In line with the inversion of PPR at 1 Hz, the time course of depression of EPSC2 was faster than EPSC1 (7 s). Recovery from depression could be obtained by lowering the frequency of stimulation to 0.025 Hz. These results could be explained by a model that takes into account two distinct release processes, one dependent on the residual calcium and the other on the size of the readily releasable pool of vesicles.

Exposure to an acute stressful event can enhance learning in male rats, whereas exposure to the same event dramatically impairs performance in females. Here we tested whether the presence of sex hormones during early development organizes these opposite effects of stress on learning in males vs. females. In the first experiment, males were castrated at birth whereas females were injected with testosterone. Rats were trained as adults on the hippocampal-dependent learning task of trace eyeblink conditioning. Performance in adult males that had been castrated at birth was still enhanced by exposure to an acute stressful experience. However, adult females injected with testosterone at birth responded in the opposite direction, i.e., exposure to the stressor that typically reduces performance instead enhanced their levels of conditioning. In the second experiment, exposure to testosterone was manipulated in utero by injecting pregnant females with a testosterone antagonist. After foster rearing, adult offspring were exposed to the stressor and trained on the hippocampal-dependent learning task of trace conditioning. Although performance in adult females was unaffected by antagonizing testosterone in utero, i.e., stress still reduced performance, the enhancement of conditioning after stress in adult males was prevented. Thus, the presence of sex hormones during gestation and development organizes whether and how acute stressful experience will affect the ability to acquire new information in adulthood. As with many sexual behaviors, these cognitive responses to stress appear to be masculinized by exposure to testosterone and feminized by its absence during very early development.
Large trials provide more precise estimates of treatment effects than small trial (how good is the treatment?) and they may allow a few sensible and pre-defined sub-group analyses (for whom does the treatment work best?). But large trials will not get done unless they are simple and as part of normal clinical practice as possible.
Several studies indicate that repeated administration of cocaine can alter GABA(A) receptor function, particularly in the mesolimbic pathway. The purpose of the present study was to assess the effect of cocaine self-administration on GABA(A) receptor activity in the ventral tegmental area (VTA), measured by bicuculline-induced rotational behavior. In order to test whether the hypothesized alteration in GABA(A) receptor function persisted during withdrawal, rats were tested when drug-nai;ve and at two time points after cocaine self-administration. Eighteen rats were implanted with intrajugular catheters and unilateral guide shafts aimed at the VTA. Microinjection of the GABA(A) receptor antagonist bicuculline (10, 25 and 50 ng) produced a dose-dependent turning behavior in a direction ipsilateral to the side of the injection. A subset of six rats was given up to 2 weeks exposure to intravenous cocaine by self-administration and was tested for bicuculline-induced rotations early in withdrawal (24 h) and again at a late withdrawal time point (between 11 and 14 days after the last cocaine session). Cocaine self-administration reduced sensitivity to bicuculline-induced rotations at the early but not at the late withdrawal point, when compared to sensitivity in drug-naive animals. A separate control study that was conducted in seven rats determined that repeated injections of bicuculline in the cocaine self-administration animals was not the cause of the decrease in behavioral response to bicuculline at the early withdrawal time point. These results suggest that exposure to cocaine via self-administration reduces the function of GABA(A) receptors in the ventral midbrain, but this reduction in receptor sensitivity did not persist beyond 10 days of withdrawal from cocaine.
History of the Williams syndrome (WS) represents a process of detailed analysis of phenotypic markers and of attempts to reveal their origin. This demanding tasks have brought many valuable findings, which were employed in different fields of medicine, namely in cardiology, metabolism, genetics, psychology and cognitive neurosciences. Discovery of the genetic basis of the disease closed the first period of the syndrome analysis. Genetic studies have been proceeding and WS can be taken as a model syndrome for the behavioral genes identification. Similarly the description of the pathogenesis of vascular anomalles represents the key for understanding of the pathogenesis of other, more common vascular diseases. The article brings the review of the history of the WS.
We determined whether neural responses to inflammation and hyperalgesia involve activation of kainate receptors, a subgroup of glutamate receptors. Inflammation was introduced into the hind paw by intraplantar injection of complete Freund's adjuvant. The inflammation-induced thermal hyperalgesia was attenuated by intrathecal administration of a non-selective alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionic acid (AMPA)/kainate receptor antagonist, 1,2,3,4-tetrahydro-6-nitro-2,3-dioxo-benzo[f]quinoxaline-7-sulfonamide disodium (NBQX), as well as by selective kainate receptor antagonists, 6,7,8,9-tetrohydro-5-nitro-1H-benz[g]indole-2,3-dione 3-oxime (NS-102) and 3S,4aR,6S,8aR-6-(4-carboxyphenyl)methyl-1,2,3,4,4a,5,6,7,8,8a-deca-hydroisoquinoline-3-carboxylic acid (LY382884). Reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) indicated that the GluR5 and GluR6, but not the GluR7, KA1 and KA2 subunits, exhibited increased mRNA expression at 2 h to 3 days following inflammation (P&lt;0.05). Western blot showed an increase in GluR6 protein levels (P&lt;0.01) with a time course consistent with the changes in its mRNA levels. cDNA sequence and BbvI endonuclease digestion of the GluR6 PCR product revealed that the upregulated GluR6 mRNAs were predominantly the unedited form (Q). These results suggest that a selective upregulation of kainate receptor subunit expression contributes to inflammatory hyperalgesia.
Mutations in alpha-synuclein have been linked to rare, autosomal dominant forms of Parkinson's disease. Despite its ubiquitous expression, mutant alpha-synuclein primarily leads to the loss of dopamine-producing neurons in the substantia nigra. alpha-Synuclein is a presynaptic nerve terminal protein of unknown function, although several studies suggest it is important for synaptic plasticity and maintenance. The present study utilized a new human mesencephalic cell line, MESC2.10, to study the effect of A53T mutant alpha-synuclein on dopamine homeostasis. In addition to expressing markers of mature dopamine neurons, differentiated MESC2.10 cells are electrically active, produce dopamine, and express wild-type human alpha-synuclein. Lentivirus-induced overexpression of A53T mutant alpha-synuclein in differentiated MESC2.10 cells resulted in down-regulation of the vesicular dopamine transporter (VMAT2), decreased potassium-induced and increased amphetamine-induced dopamine release, enhanced cytoplasmic dopamine immunofluorescence, and increased intracellular levels of superoxide. These results suggest that mutant alpha-synuclein leads to an impairment in vesicular dopamine storage and consequent accumulation of dopamine in the cytosol, a pathogenic mechanism that underlies the toxicity of the psychostimulant amphetamine and the parkinsonian neurotoxin 1-methyl-4-phenylpyridinium. Interestingly, cells expressing A53T mutant alpha-synuclein were resistant to amphetamine-induced toxicity. Because extravesicular, cytoplasmic dopamine can be easily oxidized into reactive oxygen species and other toxic metabolites, mutations in alpha-synuclein might lead to Parkinson's disease by triggering protracted, low grade dopamine toxicity resulting in terminal degeneration and ultimately cell death.
Our recent magnetic mismatch field (MMF) study found that shortened-vowel duration changes and level-to-falling pitch changes in Japanese words elicited a prominent MMF in two hemispheres for both native and nonnative speakers (Inouchi, M., Kubota, M., Ferrari, P. and Roberts, T.P.L., Magnetic mismatch fields elicited by Japanese words: vowel duration and pitch by native and nonnative speakers, Poster presented at the 31st Annual Meeting of Society for Neuroscience, November 10-15, San Diego, CA, 2001). The current study investigated whether shortened duration changes and level-to-falling pitch changes in non-speech (tones) would elicit a more prominent MMF component than lengthened duration changes and falling-to-level pitch changes, respectively. Stimuli included three computer-synthesized tones with varying duration or frequency modulation: (1). short duration and level pitch; (2). long duration and level pitch; (3). long duration and falling pitch. Magnetoencephalography responses were recorded with a dual 37-channel gradiometer system. The results showed that the prominent MMF component was generated in long-to-short duration changes and level-to-falling pitch changes in each hemisphere for both Japanese and American subjects. The component peaked at around 100 ms after change onset for duration changes and 170 ms for pitch changes. The MMF component in tones, like in words, was particularly sensitive to duration shortening and pitch falling. In summary, changes in duration shortening and pitch falling are particularly salient cues for pre-attentive auditory change detection in each hemisphere.
The scorpion venom from Leiurus quinquestriatus (LQTX) alters the kinetics of tetrodotoxin (TTX)-sensitive channels such as the skeletal muscle sodium channel Na(v)1.4. In this study, we tested the effects of LQTX on the TTX-resistant sodium current generated by Na(v)1.8 channels in sensory neurons. Na(v)1.8 current was found to be resistant to LQTX, whereas LQTX slowed inactivation of the current generated by Na(v)1.4 and induced a persistent current. LQTX has been shown to bind the S3-S4 linker of domain four (D4S3-S4) of rat brain Na(v)1.2 sodium channels. Sequence analysis shows that the D4S3-S4 linker is longer in Na(v)1.8 than in Na(v)1.4 by four amino acids: Serine; Leucine; Glutamic acid; and Aspargine (SLEN). Na(v)1.4-SLEN, a chimera construct carrying SLEN at the analogous position in the D4S3-S4 linker, was also found to be resistant to LQTX. Therefore, we conclude that the tetrapeptide SLEN at the D4S3-S4 linker region is sufficient to make Na(v)1.8 resistant to LQTX.
The motor abnormalities of Parkinson's disease (PD) are caused by alterations in basal ganglia network activity, including disinhibition of the subthalamic nucleus (STN), and excessive activity of the major output nuclei. Using adeno-associated viral vector-mediated somatic cell gene transfer, we expressed glutamic acid decarboxylase (GAD), the enzyme that catalyzes synthesis of the neurotransmitter GABA, in excitatory glutamatergic neurons of the STN in rats. The transduced neurons, when driven by electrical stimulation, produced mixed inhibitory responses associated with GABA release. This phenotypic shift resulted in strong neuroprotection of nigral dopamine neurons and rescue of the parkinsonian behavioral phenotype. This strategy suggests that there is plasticity between excitatory and inhibitory neurotransmission in the mammalian brain that could be exploited for therapeutic benefit.
A goal in visual neuroscience is to reveal how the visual system reconstructs the three-dimensional (3D) representation of the world from two-dimensional retinal images. Although the importance of texture gradient cues in the process of 3D vision has been pointed out, most studies concentrate on the neural process based on binocular disparity. We report the neural correlates of depth perception from texture gradient in the cortex. In the caudal part of the lateral bank of intraparietal sulcus, many neurons were selective to 3D surface orientation defined by texture gradient, and their response was invariant over different types of texture pattern. Most of these neurons were also sensitive to a disparity gradient, suggesting that they integrate texture and disparity gradient signals to construct a generalized representation of 3D surface orientation.

Paying attention to a stimulus selectively increases the ability to process it. For example, when subjects attend to a specific region of a visual scene, their sensitivity to changes at that location increases. A large number of studies describe the behavioural consequences and neurophysiological correlates of attending to spatial locations. There has, in contrast, been little study of the allocation of attention over time. Because subjects can anticipate predictable events with great temporal precision, it seems probable that they might dynamically shift their attention when performing a familiar perceptual task whose constraints changed over time. We trained monkeys to respond to a stimulus change where the probability of occurrence changed over time. Recording from area V4 of the visual cortex in these animals, we found that the modulation of neuronal responses changed according to the probability of the change occurring at that instant. Thus, we show that the attentional modulation of sensory neurons reflects a subject's anticipation of the timing of behaviourally relevant events.
Behavioral ecologists argue that evolution drives animal behavior to efficiently solve the problems animals face in their environmental niches. The ultimate evolutionary causes of decision making, they contend, can be found in economic analyses of organisms and their environments. Neurobiologists interested in how animals make decisions have, in contrast, focused their efforts on understanding the neurobiological hardware that serves as a more proximal cause of that same behavior. Describing the flow of information within the nervous system without regard to these larger goals has been their focus. Recent work in a number of laboratories has begun to suggest that these two approaches are beginning to fuse. It may soon be possible to view the nervous system as a representational process that solves the mathematically defined economic problems animals face by making efficient decisions. These developments in the neurobiological theory of choice, and the new schema they imply, form the subject of this article.
Success requires deciding among alternatives, controlling the initiation of movements, and judging the consequences of actions. When alternatives are difficult to distinguish, habitual responses must be overcome, or consequences are uncertain, deliberation is necessary and a supervisory system exerts control over the processes that produce sensory-guided movements. We have investigated these processes by recording neural activity in the frontal lobe of macaque monkeys performing a countermanding task. Distinct neurons in the frontal eye field respond to visual stimuli or control the production of the movements. In the supplementary eye field and anterior cingulate cortex, neurons appear not to control directly movement initiation but instead signal the production of errors, the anticipation and delivery of reinforcement, and the presence of processing conflict. These signals form the core of current models of supervisory control of sensorimotor processes.
This article relates a theoretical framework developed by British codebreakers in World War II to the neural computations thought to be responsible for forming categorical decisions about sensory stimuli. In both, a weight of evidence is computed and accumulated to support or oppose the alternative interpretations. A decision is reached when the evidence reaches a threshold value. In the codebreaking scheme, the threshold determined the speed and accuracy of the decision process. Here we propose that in the brain, the threshold may be controlled by neural circuits that calculate the rate of reward.
There is substantial evidence that dopamine is involved in reward learning and appetitive conditioning. However, the major reinforcement learning-based theoretical models of classical conditioning (crudely, prediction learning) are actually based on rules designed to explain instrumental conditioning (action learning). Extensive anatomical, pharmacological, and psychological data, particularly concerning the impact of motivational manipulations, show that these models are unreasonable. We review the data and consider the involvement of a rich collection of different neural systems in various aspects of these forms of conditioning. Dopamine plays a pivotal, but complicated, role.
A recent flurry of neuroimaging and decision-making experiments in humans, when combined with single-unit data from orbitofrontal cortex, suggests major additions to current models of reward processing. We review these data and models and use them to develop a specific computational relationship between the value of a predictor and the future rewards or punishments that it promises. The resulting computational model, the predictor-valuation model (PVM), is shown to anticipate a class of single-unit neural responses in orbitofrontal and striatal neurons. The model also suggests how neural responses in the orbitofrontal-striatal circuit may support the conversion of disparate types of future rewards into a kind of internal currency, that is, a common scale used to compare the valuation of future behavioral acts or stimuli.
The natural incentives that shape behavior reach the central circuitry of motivation trans-synaptically, via the five senses, whereas the laboratory rewards of intracranial stimulation or drug injections activate reward circuitry directly, bypassing peripheral sensory pathways. The unsensed incentives of brain stimulation and intracranial drug injections thus give us tools to identify reward circuit elements within the associational portions of the CNS. Such studies have implicated the mesolimbic dopamine system and several of its afferents and efferents in motivational function. Comparisons of natural and laboratory incentives suggest hypotheses as to why some habits become compulsive and give insights into the roles of reinforcement and of prediction of reinforcement in habit formation.

Dysthymic disorder is a chronic depressive condition with considerable psychosocial impairment. Even if DD patients respond to various antidepressant medications, there has been little systematic study on antidepressant-refractory DD. Only a few trials have evaluated the effects of treatment on psychosocial functioning of dysthymic patients. In this 3-month, open-label study, 60 outpatients with DSM-IV criteria for dysthymic disorder who failed to respond to 3-month treatment with paroxetine 20 mg/day were randomly assigned to treatment with paroxetine 40 mg/day or paroxetine 20 mg/day plus amisulpride 50 mg/day. The effects of the two treatments were assessed for both mood symptoms (21-item Hamilton Rating Scale for Depression, Montgomery-Asberg Depression Rating Scale, Clinical Global Impression, severity and improvement) and psychosocial outcomes (DSM-IV Global Assessment of Functioning, Social Adaptation Self-evaluation Scale). Analysis of variance on all rating scales showed that both treatments were effective over this observation period. Response and remission rates did not differ in the treatment groups. A significantly greater psychosocial improvement was observed in the group receiving combined treatment compared with patients receiving paroxetine alone. Both treatments appeared to be effective in our sample of dysthymic subjects. Combined treatment with paroxetine and amisulpride resulted in a better outcome in terms of social functioning.
L-type Ca(2) channels play a critical role in many types of cells, including nerve, muscle and endocrine cells. The most popular and effective tools for analyzing the roles of L-type calcium channels (L-channels) are specific antagonists such as dihydropyrigines. With these drugs however, it is difficult to target specific cells. One solution is to develop a genetically targetable inhibitor coded by DNA. As a candidate for such an inhibitor, a dominant negative mutant of Ca(v)1.2 was designed by mimicking an ascidian 3-domain-type alpha1 subunit (that inhibits the full-length subunit's current). The 3-domain-type Ca(v)1.2 subunit significantly inhibited wild-type Ca(v)1.2 current, but not other ionic currents such as Ca(v)2.1 and Na(v) channels in Xenopus oocyte expression systems. Western blot analysis showed that the expression of the wild-type protein into the plasma membrane was significantly suppressed on coexpression with the truncated protein. These findings support that an N-terminus-truncated mutant could serve as a specific genetically encoded inhibitor for L-channels.
Nasu-Hakola disease (NHD) is an autosomal recessive disorder characterized by presenile dementia and bone cysts. Finnish patients revealed a large deletion in DAP12 gene encoding a key element for transducing activation signal. The authors examined six Japanese cases for DAP12 alleles. Five of the six had loss-of-function mutation, either a single-base deletion or a novel point mutation. The single patient without mutation normally expressed DAP12 protein. Japanese NHD has at least three genetic forms regarding DAP12.

A series of novel spiroether-based neurokinin-1 (NK(1)) antagonists is described. The effect of modifications to the spiroether ring and aromatic substituents are discussed, leading to the identification of compounds with high affinity and excellent CNS penetration.
Programmed cell death is a prominent feature of neural development that is regulated by a variety of cell-cell interactions. We used the avian ciliary ganglion to dissect the relative contributions of target tissues vs. ganglionic inputs in regulating cell death. The two populations of the ciliary ganglion innervate different targets: choroid neurons innervate vasculature, whereas ciliary neurons innervate the iris and ciliary body. By counting after labeling all neurons with Islet-1 and choroid neurons with anti-somatostatin, we determined that alpha-bungarotoxin (alpha-btx) at 12.5 microg/day rescued only ciliary neurons, whereas 75 microg/day rescued both ciliary and choroid neurons. It is unlikely that alpha-btx acted by blocking nerve transmission at both targets because the choroid vasculature lacked transcripts for alpha-btx binding molecules. In addition, no inherent trophic activity could be ascribed to alpha-btx, and survival could not be attributed to differences in total trophic activity of eyes from saline vs. alpha-btx-treated embryos. In contrast, the alpha7 antagonist alpha-methyllycaconitine (MLA) rescued ciliary neurons at 2.6 microg/day, whereas 26 microg/day rescued choroid neurons. Nerve terminals of ciliary neurons rescued with alpha-btx were significantly larger; however, differences in nerve terminal size or branching of axons were not observed in ciliary neurons rescued with MLA or choroid neurons rescued by either MLA or alpha-btx. Our results suggest that neuronal survival can be promoted independently of changes at the target tissues when orthograde signals acting by means of neuronal alpha7 nicotinic receptors are blocked.
During postembryonic development, the dendritic arbors of neurons grow to accommodate new incoming synaptic inputs. Our goal was to examine which features of dendritic architecture of postsynaptic interneurons are regulated by these synaptic inputs. To address this question, we took advantage of the cockroach cercal system where the morphology of the sensory giant interneurons (GIs) is uniquely identified and, therefore, amenable to quantitative analysis. We analyzed the three-dimensional architecture of chronically deafferented vs. normally developed dendritic trees of a specific identified GI, namely GI2. GI2 shows five prominent dendrites, four of which were significantly altered after deafferentation. De-afferentation induced an average of 55% decrease in metric measures (number of branch points, total length, and total surface area) on the entire dendritic tree. Sholl and branch order analysis showed a decrease in the most distal and higher order branches. We suggest that afferent input plays a specific role in shaping the morphology of dendritic trees by regulating the formation or maintenance of high-order distal branches.
This study investigated the influence of age at onset on cognitive performance, neuropathological and neurochemical features in autopsy-confirmed sporadic Lewy body variant (LBV) and in Alzheimer's disease (AD). We compared 28 early-onset (&lt; or = 70 years) LBV subjects with 28 matched late-onset (&gt; 70 years) subjects. Similarly, we examined the same features in 89 early onset AD and 89 matched late onset AD patients. Patients with early onset LBV and early onset AD declined more rapidly, had more neuritic plaques, and greater neocortical cholinergic loss compared to late onset LBV and late onset AD subjects. Taken together, these results suggest that for both LBV and AD, earlier age at onset may predict a more aggressive disease course.
To understand the role of substance P in stress, anxiety and depression, we have investigated in rats the relationship between NK1 receptors and monoamines or GABA, and between substance P and serotonin (5-HT) in brain stem neurons by immunohistochemical double-staining techniques. In the periaqueductal gray and dorsal raphe nucleus, there was no colocalization between NK1 and 5-HT or between NK1 and tyrosine hydroxylase (a marker for adrenaline and dopamine neurons). However, many GABA-positive neurons (&gt; 50%) were NK1 positive, and some substance P-positive neurons were 5-HT positive as well. Almost all locus coeruleus noradrenaline neurons were NK1 positive. Therefore, substance P may promote stress by activating noradrenaline neurons directly and inhibiting 5-HT neurons indirectly via GABA neurons.
We investigated whether rats can learn mazes by a procedure in which rats were left in the maze (residential maze) in groups for 1 h a day. Water and food locations, which served as the start and goal boxes respectively in the test trial, were at the opposite ends of the maze. On the test trial conducted everyday before the residence period, animals put in the start box showed a significant decrease of the error response into the blind alleys and running time to reach the goal box. Systemic administration of scopolamine (0.25, 0.5 mg/kg), a muscarinic receptor antagonist, dose-dependently increased the number of errors, but mecamylamine, a nicotinic receptor antagonist, had no effect. Bilateral hippocampal lesions retarded both the acquisition and retention of this maze learning. The results suggest that this residential maze procedure is useful for testing maze learning ability in rats.

The antioxidant cocktail EM-X derived from ferment of unpolished rice, papaya and sea weeds with effective microorganisms (EM) of lactic acid bacteria, yeast, and photosynthetic bacteria is widely available in South-East Asia. Oral administration of a EM-X to rats for 7 days inhibited the ferric-nitrilotriacetic acid (Fe-NTA)-dependent oxidation of fatty acids with protections directed towards docosahexanoic, arachidonic, docosapentanenoic acids, oleic, linoleic and eicosadieonoic acids in the liver and kidney. But only the protections of oxidation to docosahexanoic, arachidonic acid in the kidney were statistically significant. Treatment of rats with EM-X prior to the intraperitoneal administration of Fe-NTA led to a reduction in the overall levels of conjugated dienes (CD) measured in the kidney by 27% and in the liver by 19% suggesting inhibition of lipid peroxidation in these organs. The levels of glutathione and alpha-tocopherol were largely unaffected suggesting that the protection by the regular strength of EM-X was confined to the inhibition of lipid peroxidation in vivo, a point dependent on the concentrations of bioactive flavonoids.
Cytokines represent a multi-diverse family of polypeptide regulators; they are of relatively low molecular weight, pharmacologically active proteins that are secreted by one cell for the purpose of altering either its own functions (autocrine effect) or those of adjacent cells (paracrine effect). Cytokines are small, non-enzymatic glycoproteins whose actions are both diverse and overlapping (specificity/redundancy) and may affect diverse and overlapping target cell populations. In many instances, individual cytokines have multiple biological activities. Different cytokines can also have the same activity, which provides for functional redundancy within the inflammatory and immune systems. As biological cofactors that are released by specific cells, cytokines have specific effects on cell-cell interaction, communication, and behavior of other cells. As a result, it is infrequent that loss or neutralization of one cytokine will markedly interfere with either of these systems. The biological effect of one cytokine is often modified or augmented by another. Because an inter-digitating, redundant network of cytokines is involved in the production of most biological effects, both under physiologic and pathologic conditions, it usually requires more than a single defect in the network to alter drastically the outcome of the process. This fact therefore may have crucial significance in the development of therapeutic strategies for bio-pharmacologic intervention in cytokine-mediated inflammatory processes and infections.
Our previous studies have shown that tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha) activates solitary nucleus neurons involved in vago-vagal reflex control of gastric motility. Here, we describe the dual role of TNF-alpha as also modulating neurons in the dorsal motor nucleus of the vagus (DMN) that respond to gastric distention. A large majority of physiologically identified DMN neurons are rapidly and completely inhibited by exposure to TNF-alpha, suggesting that TNF-alpha may induce gastric stasis by functioning as a hormone that modulates both portions of this reflex pathway during illness.
Mammals exhibit circadian rhythms in behavior generated by the suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN). Exposure to light synchronizes the circadian clock to the environmental light:dark cycle through the release of glutamate into the SCN. In nocturnal animals such as Syrian hamsters, direct application of NMDA to the SCN results in phase shifts similar to those produced by exposure to light. This study was designed to determine if light phase shifts the circadian pacemaker of diurnal Nile grass rats (Arvicanthis niloticus) housed in constant darkness by acting on NMDA-type glutamate receptors in the suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN). N-Methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA; 0, 1, 10, 50, and 100 mM) was administered through guide cannulae aimed at the SCN at circadian times when light induces phase shifts. Maximal phase delays were attained with 50 mM NMDA, and maximal phase advances were seen after 100 mM NMDA. A phase-response curve (PRC) for NMDA, determined by administering NMDA at each hour over the circadian cycle, resembled the PRC to light in this species. These data support the hypothesis that NMDA-type glutamate receptors play a critical role in mediating the phase shifting effects of light in diurnal, as well as nocturnal, animals. In addition, these data suggest that diurnal grass rats may be less sensitive to the phase shifting properties of NMDA than nocturnal rodents.
Microglial cyclo-oxygenase (COX) expression is considered to be important in the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease (AD) and, therefore, constitutes a key target for therapeutic intervention. We investigated the influence of AD plaque associated factors on COX-1 and COX-2 expression and activity in adult human microglial cells in vitro. COX-2 immunoreactivity and mRNA were induced by lipopolysaccharide (LPS), not by AD plaque associated cytokines interleukin (IL)-1alpha, IL-1beta, IL-6, tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-alpha, or amyloid (A)beta(1-42). To assess functional COX activity, the release of PGE(2) into the culture medium was determined. LPS and also arachidonic acid (AA) dose-dependently stimulated PGE(2) release. The effects of AA are independent from induction of COX mRNA expression, or of de novo protein synthesis. No effects of either plaque-associated cytokines or Abeta(1-42) on PGE(2) secretion were seen, even when cells were co-stimulated with AA, to provide enough substrate. COX isotype selective inhibitors were used to discern relative contributions of COX-1 and COX-2 activities to microglial PGE(2) secretion. COX-2 and in part COX-1-selective inhibitors inhibited LPS-induced PGE(2) secretion, whereas the AA-induced PGE(2) secretion was reduced by COX-1-selective inhibitors only. Apparently, adult human microglia in vitro (1) constitutively express COX-1, and (2) do not express COX-2 upon exposure to either Abeta or plaque associated cytokines. In the light of microglial COX activity as a potential therapeutical target in AD, the data presented in this study suggest that classical NSAIDs, rather than selective COX-2 inhibitors, are more potent in reducing microglial prostaglandin secretion.
Frizzled has been known to function as a Wnt receptor. Although there have been a number of mammalian Frizzled members identified, their binding specificities with Wnt and functions in mammalian cells have been poorly understood. Here, we demonstrate that rat Frizzled-9 (Rfz9) functions in Wnt/beta-catenin signaling in 293T cells. Rfz9 overexpression induces the hyperphosphorylation and relocalization of mouse Dishevelled-1 (Dvl-1) from the cytoplasm to the cell membrane and the accumulation of cytosolic beta-catenin. Transfections of Rfz9 with each of several Wnt members show that only Wnt-2 activates Rfz9 in T cell factor (TCF)-dependent transcription. Deletion mutant analysis determines that there is a difference in Rfz9 C-terminal residues required for the modifications of Dvl-1 and those required for the inductions of beta-catenin stabilization and TCF transactivation. Deletion of the Wnt-binding domain does not abolish Rfz9 activity completely, although it causes the inactivation of Wnt-2-dependent TCF transcription. Rfz9 also relocalizes Axin from the cytoplasm to the plasma membrane in the presence of Dvl-1, suggesting that one of the consequences of Dvl-1 relocalization by Rfz9 is to bring Axin to the cell membrane.
In the absence of cyclic nucleotides, the cAMP-dependent protein kinase and cGMP-dependent protein kinases (cGKs) suppress phosphotransfer activity at the catalytic cleft by competitive inhibition of substrate binding with a pseudosubstrate sequence within the holoenzyme. The magnitude of inhibition can be diminished by autophosphorylation near this pseudosubstrate sequence. Activation of type I cGK (cGKI) and type II cGK (cGKII) are differentially regulated by their cyclic nucleotide-binding sites. To address the possibility that the distinct activation mechanisms of cGKII and cGKI result from differences in the autophosphorylation of the inhibitory domain, we investigated the effects of autophosphorylation on the kinetics of activation. Unlike the type I cGKs (cGKIalpha and Ibeta), cGKII autophosphorylation did not alter the basal activity, nor the sensitivity of the enzyme to cyclic nucleotide activation. To determine residues responsible for autoinhibition of cGKII, Ala was substituted for basic residues (Lys(122), Arg(118), and Arg(119)) or a hydrophobic residue (Val(125)) within the putative pseudosubstrate domain of cGKII. The integrity of these residues was essential for full cGKII autoinhibition. Furthermore, a cGKII truncation mutant containing this autoinhibitory region demonstrated a nanomolar IC(50) toward a constitutively active form of cGKII. Finally, we present evidence that the dominant negative properties of this truncation mutant are specific to cGKII when compared with cAMP-dependent protein kinase Calpha and cGKIbeta. These findings extend the known differences in the activation mechanisms among cGK isoforms and allow the design of an isoform-specific cGKII inhibitor.
The main objective of this study was to develop a polymeric drug delivery system for paclitaxel, intended to be intravenously administered, capable of improving the therapeutic index of the drug and devoid of the adverse effects of Cremophor EL. To achieve this goal paclitaxel (Ptx)-loaded poly(lactic-co-glycolic acid) (PLGA) nanoparticles (Ptx-PLGA-Nps) were prepared by the interfacial deposition method. The influence of different experimental parameters on the incorporation efficiency of paclitaxel in the nanoparticles was evaluated. Our results demonstrate that the incorporation efficiency of paclitaxel in nanoparticles was mostly affected by the method of preparation of the organic phase and also by the organic phase/aqueous phase ratio. Our data indicate that the methodology of preparation allowed the formation of spherical nanometric (&lt;200 nm), homogeneous and negatively charged particles which are suitable for intravenous administration. The release behaviour of paclitaxel from the developed Nps exhibited a biphasic pattern characterised by an initial fast release during the first 24 h, followed by a slower and continuous release. The in vitro anti-tumoral activity of Ptx-PLGA-Nps developed in this work was assessed using a human small cell lung cancer cell line (NCI-H69 SCLC) and compared to the in vitro anti-tumoral activity of the commercial formulation Taxol. The influence of Cremophor EL on cell viability was also investigated. Exposure of NCI-H69 cells to 25 microg/ml Taxol resulted in a steep decrease in cell viability. Our results demonstrate that incorporation of Ptx in nanoparticles strongly enhances the cytotoxic effect of the drug as compared to Taxol, this effect being more relevant for prolonged incubation times.
We examined the effects of diabetes on the morphological features and regenerative capabilities of adult mouse nodose ganglia (NG) and dorsal root ganglia (DRG). By light and electron microscopy, no apoptotic cell death was detected in the ganglia obtained from either streptozotocin (STZ)-induced diabetic or normal C57BL/6J mice in vivo. Neurite regeneration from transected nerve terminals of NG and DRG explants in culture at normal (10 mM) and high (30 mM) glucose concentrations was significantly enhanced in the diabetic mice. Chromatolytic changes (i.e. swelling and migration of the nucleus to an eccentric position in the neurons, and a loss of Nissl substance in the neuronal perikarya) and apoptotic cell death (less than one-fifth of the neurons) in the cultured ganglia were present, but neither hyperglycemia in vivo nor high glucose conditions in vitro altered the morphological features of the ganglia or the ratios of apoptotic cells at 3 days in culture. By semiquantitative RT-PCR analysis, the mRNA expressions of ciliary neurotrophic factor (CNTF) in DRG from both mice were down-regulated at 1 day in culture. The expression in diabetic DRG, but not in control DRG, was significantly up-regulated at later stages (3 and 7 days) in culture. In summary, hyperglycemia is unlikely to induce cell death in the sensory ganglia, but enhances the regenerative capability of vagal and spinal sensory nerves in vitro. The up-regulation of CNTF mRNA expression during the culture of diabetic DRG may play a role in the enhanced neurite regeneration.
The concentrations of the serotonin metabolites 5-hydroxyindole-3-acetic acid (5HIAA) and 5-hydroxytryptophol (5HTOL) were determined in spot urine samples of 12 mammalian and one fish species (cat, cow, dog, ferret, golden hamster, guinea pig, horse, monkey, mouse, rabbit, rainbow trout, rat, sheep) and compared with human data. The highest urinary concentrations of 5HTOL were found in the Sprague-Dawley rat (mean 9.5 micromol/L) and NMRI mouse (8.2 micromol/L), and the lowest in rainbow trout, cynomolgus macaque, and human urine (approximately 0.1 micromol/L). The highest 5HIAA concentrations were found in hamster (89.3 micromol/L) and mouse (85.2 micromol/L), and the lowest in rainbow trout, horse and sheep (range 2.0-3.7 micromol/L). Several species showed 5HIAA concentrations similar to that normally observed in human urine (approximately 5-40 micromol/L). This study demonstrated wide inter- and intra-species variations in the urinary concentrations of 5HIAA and 5HTOL, both separately and in the sum of concentrations. The 5HTOL/5HIAA ratio, which is used as an easily accessible index of the relative importance of the reductive and oxidative pathways for serotonin metabolism, also varied considerably between different species. This observation confirms that the much higher urinary 5HTOL/5HIAA ratio in rats (mean 0.35) compared with humans (&lt; 0.01) is due to a higher baseline formation of 5HTOL in the rat. The monkey, ferret, hamster, and rabbit most closely resembled humans in this respect, and at least the two latter species appear to be more suitable than rats as animal models for studying serotonin metabolism and turnover rate, and the metabolic interaction with ethanol.
Apolipoprotein(a) (Apo(a)) is a glycoprotein that is linked by a disulfide bond to apolipoprotein B on low density lipoprotein particles to form lipoprotein(a) (Lp(a)). High plasma levels of Lp(a) are thought to contribute directly to the development of atherosclerosis. We tested a variant (T3888P) located in the Kringle-IV region of Apo(a) in a case-control series. Overall, there were no differences between case and controls. However, in the apoE2 positive subgroup, we noticed that the mutant allele is over-represented in the cases (P=0.005). We suggest that this polymorphism and others at the Apo(a) locus be further studied in relation to Alzheimer's disease.
We have cloned the promoter regions of two Xenopus laevis genes, Prph2 (also called RDS) and red cone opsin (RCO) using a polymerase chain reaction-based gene-walking method. The proteins coded by these genes are expressed exclusively in retinal photoreceptors. Although these promoter sequences are evolutionarily distant from previously described homologues, potentially informative similarities were noted that suggest conserved binding sites of the transcription factors Crx and Rx. The promoters were tested for function in transgenic X. laevis. RCO-driven expression was restricted to cones and pinealocytes, while the Prph2 promoter drove expression of a reporter green fluorescent protein transgene in both rod and cone photoreceptors, as well as low levels of expression in muscle tissue. This is the first description of transgene expression driven by a Prph2 promoter homologue from any species. In combination with the previously reported X. laevis opsin and arrestin promoters, these sequences will facilitate the development and analysis of X. laevis models of inherited retinal degeneration.
Tau-immunoreactive astrocytes in progressive supranuclear palsy (PSP) have a distinctive morphology and are referred to as tufted astrocytes (TA). We hypothesized that TA may be a degenerative change in reactive astrocytes. To test this hypothesis we examined the relationship of TA to gliosis in PSP. We first examined the distribution of gliosis [glial fibrillary acid protein (GFAP)-positive astrocytes], TA, neurofibrillary tangles (NFT) and pretangles in brain sections of neuropathologically pure PSP cases. Second, we examined PSP cases complicated by infarcts or Alzheimer's disease, since these cases would have reactive astrocytes associated with lesions. We used double immunostaining for GFAP and tau for cases with vascular lesions, and triple immunostaining for GFAP, tau and beta-amyloid protein for sections with senile plaques. There was no correlation between the distribution of gliosis and TA, with gliosis prominent in globus pallidus and subthalamic nucleus, and TA prominent in motor cortex and striatum. On the other hand, gliosis paralleled the distribution of NFT, but not the distribution of pretangles, suggesting that NFT contributes to gliosis in PSP. Although reactive astrocytes were present around infarcts and senile plaques, TA were not associated with these lesions. Tau accumulation in astrocytes in PSP was not preferential to (and was actually independent of) reactive astrocytes. This is consistent with the notion that tau accumulation in astrocytes is a degenerative rather than reactive process. Unlike NFT, astrocytic degeneration does not seem to contribute to gliosis or neuronal loss in PSP, and its clinical significance remains unclear.



Summary: Three cases of intracanalicular meningioma mimicking vestibular schwannoma are presented. In each case, a contrast-enhancing mass filling the internal auditory canal was identified on MR images and was originally diagnosed as a vestibular schwannoma. Although it is difficult to differentiate definitively between these lesions preoperatively, imaging findings inconsistent with a diagnosis of vestibular schwannoma can be identified. Preoperative identification of intracanalicular meningiomas permits alterations in surgical planning that allow for the more complete resection of these rare tumors.

The goal of this study was to describe the evolution of dementia severity in a very old dementia population. We investigated a representative group of demented subjects gathered from a population-based study (n = 223). Changes in cognition, functioning, and performance on global scales were followed over a period of 7 years. At baseline, 19% of the demented subjects were found to be severely impaired according to the Clinical Dementia Rating scale, 41% according to the Mini-Mental State Examination score, and 31% according to Katz activities of daily living scale. After 7 years these proportions were 78%, 93%, and 68%, respectively. The probability of surviving 3 years, 5 years, and 7 years after baseline examination was 48%, 28%, and 15%, respectively. Over a 7-year follow-up period, subjects suffering from questionable-mild dementia had a mean survival of 3.9 years (95% confidence interval 3.3-4.5), whereas subjects with severe dementia survived on average 2.9 years (95% confidence interval 2.5-3.2). Male gender, lower education, and poor cognitive and functional status were associated with shorter survival in milder cases, whereas the only factors that predicted shorter survival in more severe cases were older age and poor functional status. Long-term survivors in dementia are not rare, and as the absolute number of demented people is increasing, expanding our knowledge of these persons is of high public health importance.
This conceptual review explores some speculative associations between the neuroscience of expectancy and surprise during stress and therapeutic hypnosis. Current neuroscience is exploring how novel interactions between the organism and the environment initiate cascades of gene expression, protein synthesis, neurogenesis, and healing that operate via Darwinian principles of natural variation and selection on all levels from the molecular-genomic to the subjective states of consciousness. From a neuroscience perspective, the novel and surprising experiences of consciousness appear to have as important a role as expectancy in memory, learning and behavior change in the psychobiology of therapeutic hypnosis. This paper explores how we may integrate the psychosocial genomics of expectancy and surprise in therapeutic hypnosis as a complex system of creative adaptation on all levels of human experience from mind to gene expression.
Whole cell patch-clamp techniques were used to investigate amiloride-sensitive sodium conductance (G(Na)) in the everted initial collecting tubule of Ambystoma. Accessibility to both the apical and basolateral membranes made this preparation ideal for studying the regulation of sodium transport by insulin. G(Na) accounted for 20% of total cell conductance (G(T)) under control conditions. A resting membrane potential of -75 +/- 2 mV (n = 7) together with the fact that G(T) is stable with time suggested that the cells studied were viable. Measurements of capacitance and use of a known uncoupling agent, heptanol, suggested that cells were not electrically coupled. Thus the values of G(T) and G(Na) represented individual principal cells. Exposure of the basolateral membrane to insulin (1 mU/ml) for 10-60 min significantly (P &lt; 0.05) increased the normalized G(Na) [1.2 +/- 0.3 nS (n = 6) vs. 2.0 +/- 0.4 nS (n = 6)]. Cell-attached patch-clamp techniques were used to further elucidate the mechanism by which insulin increases amiloride-sensitive epithelial sodium channel (ENaC) activity. In the presence of insulin there was no apparent change in either the number of active levels/patch or the conductance of ENaC. The open probability increased significantly (P &lt; 0.01) from 0.21 +/- 0.04 (n = 6) to 0.46 +/- 0.07 (n = 6). Thus application of insulin enhanced sodium reabsorption by increasing the fraction of time the channel spent in the open state.
This study explored the effects of gender and aging on the complexity of cardiac pacemaker activity. Electrocardiogram signals were studied in normal women (n = 240) and men (n = 240) ranging in age from 40 to 79 yr. Nonlinear analysis of short-term resting R-R intervals was performed using the correlation dimension (CD), approximate entropy (ApEn), and largest Lyapunov exponent (LLE). Evidence of nonlinear structure was obtained by the surrogate data test. CD, ApEn, and LLE were negatively correlated with age. Despite similar means and SDs of the R-R intervals, women had a significantly higher CD, ApEn, and LLE compared with men in the age strata of 40-44 and 45-49 yr. CD and ApEn were strongly (r &gt; 0.71) correlated with low- and high-frequency components. We conclude that the resting cardiac pacemaker activity of women is more complex than that of men in middle age, and the gender-related difference diminishes after the age of 50 yr. The higher complexity implies a more comprehensive neural modulation.
As revealed by previous microdialysis studies, basal and food intake-accompanied dopamine release significantly differs in the hypothalamus of obese vs. lean Zucker rats. In the present study, we determined whether dopaminergic receptors are also compromised in obesity. Dopaminergic D(1) and D(2) receptor mRNA expression was studied in the ventromedial hypothalamus (VMH), lateral hypothalamic area (LHA), and the adenohypophysis (AH) of obese and lean Zucker rats using RT-PCR technique. In obese Zucker rats, we found an upregulation of D(1) receptor mRNA in the VMH and AH and a downregulation in the LHA, whereas D(2) receptor mRNA was downregulated in both the VMH and LHA, but not changed in the AH, compared with lean rats. Also, an increase of D(1) receptor staining was seen in the paraventricular nucleus of obese rats by immunohistochemistry. We selected the VMH to test if the observed changes in the dopamine receptor expression of obese rats induce behavioral sensitization to dopamine as expressed by hyperphagia. The overnight food-deprived rats received a single VMH injection (10 nmol) of sulpiride (D(2) receptor antagonist) or saline as control, then food was provided and 1-h food intake was measured. Food intake after sulpiride vs. saline injection was greater in obese rats but was not different in lean rats. Our data suggest that downregulation of D(2) receptor in the hypothalamus at least in the VMH induces behavior sensitization for having large meals. Low D(2) receptor expression may be causal for an exaggerated dopamine release observed in obese rats during food ingestion and for reduced satiety feedback effect of dopamine. High level of D(1) receptor expression in the VMH and low in the LHA may also contribute to the specific feeding pattern in obese rats represented by large meal size and low meal number.
Arachnoid villi and granulations are thought to represent the primary sites where cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) is absorbed. However, these structures do not appear to exist in the fetus but begin to develop around the time of birth and increase in number with age. With the use of a constant pressure-perfusion system in 2- to 6-day-old lambs, we observed that global CSF transport (0.012 +/- 0.003 ml x min(-1) x cmH(2)O(-1)) and CSF outflow resistance (96.5 +/- 17.8 cmH(2)O x ml(-1) x min) were very similar to comparable measures in adult animals despite the relative paucity of arachnoid villi at this stage of development. In the neonate, the recovery patterns of a radioactive protein CSF tracer in various lymph nodes and tissues indicated that CSF transport occurred through multiple lymphatic pathways. An especially important route was transport through the cribriform plate into extracranial lymphatics located in the nasal submucosa. To investigate the importance of the cribriform route in cranial CSF clearance, the cranial CSF compartment was isolated surgically from its spinal counterpart. When the cribriform plate was sealed extracranially under these conditions, CSF transport was impaired significantly. These data demonstrate an essential function for lymphatics in neonatal CSF transport and imply that arachnoid projections may play a limited role earlier in development.
The purpose of the present study was to investigate the binding patterns of the plant lectin Bandeiraea simplicifolia I-isolectin B(4) (BSI-B(4)) to sensory neurones in seven mammalian species. The dorsal root ganglia and spinal cords of three rats, mice, guinea pigs, rabbits, flying foxes, cats, and marmoset monkeys were screened for BSI-B(4) using lectin histochemistry. BSI-B(4) binding was associated with the soma of predominantly small-diameter primary sensory neurones in the dorsal root ganglia and their axon terminals within laminae I and II of the superficial dorsal horn in all seven species. The similarities of lectin binding patterns in each of these species suggest that the glycoconjugate to which BSI-B(4) binds has a ubiquitous distribution in mammals, and supports the proposal that this lectin may preferentially bind to a subpopulation of sensory neurones with a similar functional role in each of these species.
The oxidation of catecholamines with a carbon-fiber electrode can be used to monitor exocytosis at the single cell level at a variety of different types of cells. These measurements allow release to be followed from individual vesicles and have revealed several unique aspects concerning the coupling between release and storage. The strong association of the vesicular components in chromaffin cells dictates the time course of extrusion of the vesicle contents. Furthermore, liberation of the Ca(2+) normally stored within the vesicles can promote exocytosis without an external Ca(2+) source.

Exocytosis, stimulus-secretion coupling, real-time measurements of neurosecretion, and stimulus-secretion-synthesis coupling (stimulus-transcription coupling) were all initially proposed and verified in the chromaffin cell. Detailed analysis of the molecules and pathways responsible for secretion and transsynaptic regulation of gene expression patterns in neuroendoccrine cells have been very fruitfully explored in chromaffin cells and the related PC12 pheochromocytoma cell line, using modern molecular biologcal, cellular imaging, and expression profiling techniques. The time is clearly at hand for a concerted bioinformatics approach to acquiring and synthesizing electrophysiological, biochemical, and proteomic/genomic data on the chromaffin cell. Accelerating this process will fully realize the unique attributes of the chromaffin cell as a homogeneous, accessible, fully functional model of the posttmitotic neuroendocrine cell.
The developmental diversification of neural crest-derived sympathoadrenal (SA) progenitor cells into neuroendocrine adrenal chromaffin cells and sympathetic neurons has been thought to be largely understood. Based on two decades of in vitro studies with isolated SA progenitor and chromaffin cells, it was widely assumed that chromaffin cell development crucially depends on glucocorticoid hormones provided by adrenal cortical cells. However, analysis of mice lacking the glucocorticoid receptor has revealed that the chromaffin cell phenotype develops largely normally in these mice, except for the induction of the adrenaline synthesizing enzyme phenylethylamine N-methyl transferase. In a search for novel candidate genes that might be involved in triggering the sympathetic neuron/chromaffin cell decision, we have studied putative contributions of transforming growth factor (TGF)-alpha, BMP-4, and the transcription factor MASH-1, molecules with distinct expressions in SA progenitor cells, in their migratory pathways and final destinations. TGF-beta2 and -beta3 and BMP-4 are highly expressed in the wall of the dorsal aorta and in the adrenal anlagen during and after immigration of SA progenitors but expressed at much lower levels in sympathetic ganglia. We found that neutralizing antibodies against all three TGF-beta isoforms applied to the chorionic-allantoic membrane (CAM) of quail embryos interfere with proliferation of immigrated adrenal chromaffin cells but do not affect their specific neuroendocrine ultrastructural phenotype. Grafting of noggin-producing cells to the CAM, which scavenges BMPs, interferes with visceral arch and limb development but does not overtly affect the chromaffin phenotype. The transcription factor MASH-1 promotes early differentiation of SA progenitors. Mice deficient for MASH-1 lack sympathetic ganglia, whereas the adrenal medulla previously has been reported to be present. We show here that most adrenal medullary cells in MASH-1(-/-) mice identified by Phox2b immunoreactivity lack the catecholaminergic marker tyrosine hydroxylase. More surprisingly, most cells do not contain chromaffin granules and display a neuroblast-like ultrastructure and show strongly enhanced expression of c-RET comparable to that observed in sympathetic ganglia. Together, our data suggest that TGF-betas and BMP-4 do not seem to be essential for chromaffin cell differentiation. In contrast with previous reports, however, MASH-1 apparently plays a crucial role in chromaffin cell development.

Pituitary adenylate cyclase-activating polypeptide (PACAP) is an adrenomedullary cotransmitter that along with acetylcholine is responsible for driving catecholamine and neuropeptide biosynthesis and secretion from chromaffin cells in response to stimulation of the splanchnic nerve. Two neuropeptides whose biosynthesis is regulated by PACAP include enkephalin and vasoactive intestinal polypeptide (VIP). Occupancy of PAC1 PACAP receptors on chromaffin cells can result in elevation of cyclic AMP, inositol phosphates, and intracellular calcium. The proenkephalin A and VIP genes are transcriptionally responsive to signals generated within all three pathways, and potentially by combinatorial activation of these pathways as well. The characteristics of PACAP regulation of enkephalin and VIP biosynthesis were examined pharmacologically for evidence of involvement of several serine/threonine protein kinases activated by cAMP, IP3, and/or calcium, including calmodulin kinase II, protein kinase A, and protein kinase C. Evidence is presented for the differential involvement of these protein kinases in regulation of enkephalin and VIP biosynthesis in chromaffin cells, and for a prominent role of the mixed-function (tyrosine and serine/threonine) MAP kinase family in mediating transcriptional activation of neuropeptide genes by PACAP.
Reduction of intracellular Ca(2+) stores (by chelation with the EDTA structural analogue, TPEN) is itself a sufficient trigger of capacitative Ca(2+) entry. TPEN may be a useful tool in studies to investigate the mechanism of capacitative Ca(2+) entry, since potential confounders, such as changes in cytosolic Ca(2+) and second messenger levels, are obviated and the use of pharmacological modifiers of SERCA pumps and Ca(2+) release channels is avoided.
We have found that Na-Ca exchange influences Ca(2+) efflux, signal decay, and the rate of secretion in chromaffin cells. We now report the presence of two distinct splicing variant isoforms of Na-Ca exchange proteins in bovine chromaffin cells and their transport properties in chromaffin granules and plasma membrane vesicles.
Although the adult brain contains nicotinic acetylcholine (ACh) receptors vital to cortical function, little is known about the assembly of embryonic receptor subunits into functional receptors or their role in fetal brain development. We now report the first evidence of functional nicotinic ACh receptors on stem and progenitor cells of fetal mouse cerebral cortex as early as embryonic day 10.
Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is characterized by degeneration of motor neurons in the spinal cord resulting in progressive paralysis and death. The pathogenic mechanism of ALS is unknown but may involve increased oxidative stress, overactivation of glutamate receptors, and apoptosis. We report abnormalities in sphingolipid and cholesterol metabolism in the spinal cords of ALS patients and in a transgenic mouse model (Cu/ZnSOD mutant mice), which manifest increased levels of sphingomyelin, ceramides, and cholesterol esters; in the Cu/ZnSOD mutant mice, these abnormalities precede the clinical phenotype. In ALS patients and Cu/Zn-SOD mutant mice, increased oxidative stress occurs in association with the lipid alterations, and exposure of cultured motor neurons to oxidative stress increases the accumulation of sphingomyelin, ceramides, and cholesterol esters. Pharmacological inhibition of sphingolipid synthesis prevents accumulation of ceramides, sphingomyelin, and cholesterol esters and protects motor neurons against death induced by oxidative and excitotoxic insults. These findings suggest a pivotal role for altered sphingolipid metabolism in the pathogenesis of ALS.
The present study compares the structure and function of retinal ganglion and amacrine cell dendrites. Although a superficial similarity exists between amacrine and ganglion cell dendrites, a comparison between the branching pattern of the two cell types reveals differences which can only be appreciated at the microscopic level. Whereas decremental branching is found in ganglion cells, a form of non-decremental or &quot;trunk branching&quot; is observed in amacrine cell dendrites. Physiological differences are also observed in amacrine vs ganglion cells in which many amacrine cells generate dendritic impulses which can be readily distinguished from those of the soma, while separate dendritic impulses in ganglion cell dendrites have not been reported. Despite these differences, both amacrine and ganglion cell dendrites appear to contain voltage-gated ion channels, including TTX-sensitive sodium channels. One way to account for separate dendritic impulses in amacrine cells is to have a higher density of sodium channels and we generally find in modeling studies that a dendritic sodium channel density that is more than about 50% of that in the soma is required for excitatory, synaptic currents to give rise to local dendritic spike activity. Under these conditions, impulses can be generated in the dendrites and propagate for some distance along the dendritic tree. When the soma generates impulse activity in amacrine cells, it can activate, antidromically, the entire dendritic tree. Although ganglion cell dendrites do not appear to generate independent impulses, the presence of voltage-gated ion channels in these structures appears to be important for their function. Modeling studies demonstrate that when dendrites lack voltage-gated ion channels, impulse activity evoked by current applied to the cell body is generated at rates that are much higher than those observed physiologically. However, by placing ion channels in the dendrites at a reduced density compared to those of amacrine cells, the firing rate of ganglion cells becomes more physiological and the relationship between frequency and current (F/I relationship) can be precisely matched with physiological data. Recent studies have demonstrated the presence of T-type calcium channels in ganglion cells and our analysis suggests that they are found in higher density in the dendrites compared to the soma. This is the first voltage-gated ion channel which appears more localized to the dendrites than other cell copartments and this difference alone cries for an interpretation. The presence of a significant T-type calcium channel density in the dendrites can influence their integrative properties in several important ways. First, excitatory synaptic currents can be augmented by the activation of T-type calcium channels, although this is more likely to occur for transient rather than sustained synaptic currents because T-type currents show strong inactivation properties. In addition, T-type calcium channels may serve to limit the electrical load which dendrites impose on the spike initiation process and thus enhance the speed with which impulses can be triggered by the impulse generation site. This role whill enhance the safety factor for impulses traveling in the orthograde direction.
Smooth pursuit eye movements provide a good model system for cerebellar studies of complex motor control in monkeys. First, the pursuit system exhibits predictive control along complex trajectories and this control improves with training. Second, the flocculus/paraflocculus region of the cerebellum appears to generate this control. Lesions impair pursuit and neural activity patterns are closely related to eye motion during complex pursuit. Importantly, neural responses lead eye motion during predictive pursuit and lag eye motion during non-predictable target motions that require visual control. The idea that flocculus/paraflocculus predictive control is non-visual is also supported by a lack of correlation between neural activity and retinal image motion during pursuit. Third, biologically accurate neural network models of the flocculus/paraflocculus allow the exploration and testing of pursuit mechanisms. Our current model can generate predictive control without visual input in a manner that is compatible with the extensive experimental data available for this cerebellar system. Similar types of non-visual cerebellar control are likely to facilitate the wide range of other skilled movements that are observed.

The expert system, Principal Investigator-in-a-box, or [PI], was designed to assist astronauts or other operators in performing experiments outside their expertise. Currently, the software helps astronauts calibrate instruments for a Sleep and Respiration Experiment without contact with the investigator on the ground. It flew on the Space Shuttle missions STS-90 and STS-95. [PI] displays electrophysiological signals in real time, alerts astronauts via the indicator lights when a poor signal quality is detected, and advises astronauts how to restore good signal quality. Thirty subjects received training on the sleep instrumentation and the [PI] interface. A beneficial effects of [PI] and training reduced troubleshooting time. [PI] benefited subjects on the most difficult scenarios, even though its lights were not 100% accurate. Further, questionnaires showed that most subjects preferred monitoring waveforms with [PI] assistance rather than monitoring waveforms alone. This study addresses problems of complex troubleshooting and the extended time between training and execution that is common to many human operator situations on earth such as in power plant operation, and marine exploration.
Humans and animals trained on sequential reaction tasks show decreases in reaction time and increases in anticipatory movements even long after they have ceased to make errors. Humans show these changes even when they do not explicitly recognize that they performed a repeating sequence. We have developed a task which rats learn to perform error-free quickly, but in which they continue to show path-refinement on a single day. This task may enable the study of performance strategy changes occurring within a single day.
We have compared the movements generated by stimulation of muscle, nerve, spinal roots and spinal cord in anesthetized, decerebrate and spinalized cats. Each method produced a full range of movements of the cat's hind limb in the sagittal plane against a spring load, except for stimulation of the roots. Stimulation of the dorsal roots produced movements that were mainly up and forward, whereas stimulation of the ventral roots produced complementary movements (down and backward). Results from stimulation in the intermediate areas of the spinal cord were compared to predictions of the &quot;movement primitives&quot; hypothesis. We could not confirm that the directions were independent of stimulus amplitude or the state of descending inputs. Pros and cons of stimulating at some sites were provisionally considered for the reliable control of limb movements with functional electrical stimulation (FES) in clinical conditions.
The biography of doctor Franz Joseph Gall (1758-1828) and his theory of phrenology were outlined highlighting the criminological issues of it. The real scientific aspects of his work were pointed out as well as their relation to modern investigations of human brain. The unsatisfactory interest of forensic community concerning the issue of postmortem research of psychiatric disorders relevant to criminology and forensic medicine were also highlighted.


Cognitive neuroscience is a growing new discipline concerned with relating complex behavior to neuroanatomy. Relatively new advances in the imaging of brain function, such as positron emission tomography (PET), have generated hundreds of studies that have demonstrated a number of interesting but also potentially problematic brain-behavior relations. For example, cognitive neuroscientists largely favor interpretations of their data that rely on unobserved hypothetical mechanisms. Their reports often contain phraseology such as central executive, willed action, and mental imagery. As B. F. Skinner argued for decades, cognitive constructs of neurological data may yield nothing more than a conceptual nervous system.
Because dieting is not as common in patients with binge-eating disorder (BED) as among patients with bulimia or anorexia nervosa, the authors assessed the incidence, frequency, and contributing factors of semistarvation-like eating patterns in BED patients in this study, the first to explore such behaviors in a clinical population. They administered the Semistarvation-Associated Behaviors Scale (SSABS) to 54 women seeking BED treatment and to 29 controls. The aberrant eating behaviors among BED clients were associated with current dieting and certain BED criteria, (p &lt; .05). The strongest contributor to chaotic eating patterns was negative affect preceding BED (r = .45, p &lt; .001). This finding highlights the behavioral psychopathology of BED and strengthens the role of negative affect in precipitating binge episodes associated with the disorder. These behaviors may help maintain BED by creating a binge-negative affect cycle. The SSABS is a tool that may help break this cycle.
Rats with bilateral N-methyl-D-aspartate lesions centered on the postrhinal cortex (POR) and sham lesions were tested in a series of spatial memory tasks. The POR-lesioned rats were significantly impaired compared with sham rats in the reference memory version of both the water maze and radial arm maze tasks and in the standard radial arm maze working memory task. The POR-lesioned rats displayed a delay-independent impairment in the working memory versions of the water maze and in a delayed nonmatching-to-place (DNMP) version of the radial arm maze task. The POR-lesioned rats were also impaired in a DNMP procedure conducted in the T-maze. These findings indicate that the POR has a delay-independent role in the processing of spatial information.
SNAREs (soluble N-ethylmaleimide-sensitive factor attachment protein receptors) are a large family of proteins that are present on all organelles involved in intracellular vesicle trafficking and secretion. The interaction of complementary SNAREs found on opposing membranes presents an attractive lock-and-key mechanism, which may underlie the specificity of vesicle trafficking. Moreover, formation of the tight complex between a vesicle membrane SNARE and corresponding target membrane SNAREs could drive membrane fusion. In synapses, this tight complex, also referred to as the synaptic core complex, is essential for neurotransmitter release. However, recent observations in knockout mice lacking major synaptic SNAREs challenge the prevailing notion on the executive role of these proteins in fusion and open up several questions about their exact role(s) in neurotransmitter release. Persistence of a form of regulated neurotransmitter release in these mutant mice also raises the possibility that other cognate or non-cognate SNAREs may partially compensate for the loss of a particular SNARE. Future analysis of SNARE function in central synapses will also have implications for the role of these molecules in other vesicle trafficking events such as endocytosis and vesicle replenishment. Such analysis can provide a molecular basis for synaptic processes including certain forms of short-term synaptic plasticity.
Fluorination of peptide side chains has been shown to perturb gramicidin channel conductance without significantly changing the average side chain structure, which, it is hoped, will allow detailed analysis of electrostatic modulation of current flow. Here we report a 1312-point potassium current-voltage-concentration data set for homodimeric channels formed from gramicidin A (gA) or any of eight fluorinated Trp analogs in both lecithin and monoglyceride bilayers. We fit the data with a three-barrier, two-site, two-ion (3B2S) kinetic model. The fluorination-induced changes in the rate constants were constrained by the same factor in both lipids. The rate constant changes were converted to transition-state free-energy differences for comparison with previous electrostatic potential energy differences based on an ab initio force field. The model allowed a reasonably good fit (chi = 8.29 with 1271 degrees of freedom). The measured changes were subtle. Nevertheless, the fitted energy perturbations agree well with electrostatic predictions for five of the eight peptides. For the other three analogs, the fitted changes suggested a reduced translocation barrier rather than the reduced exit barrier as predicted by electrostatics.
A qualitative mathematical model is presented that examines membrane potential feedback on synthesis of inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate (IP(3)), and its role in generation and modulation of slow waves. Previous experimental studies indicate that slow waves show voltage dependence, and this is likely to result through membrane potential modulation of IP(3). It is proposed that the observed response of the tissue to current pulse, pulse train, and maintained current injection can be explained by changes in IP(3), modulated through a voltage-IP(3) feedback loop. Differences underlying the tissue responses to current injections of opposite polarities are shown to be due to the sequence of events following such currents. Results from this model are consistent with experimental findings and provide further understanding of these experimental observations. Specifically, we find that membrane potential can induce, abolish, and modulate slow wave frequency by altering the excitability of the tissue through the voltage-IP(3) feedback loop.
We present analysis of new configurational bias Monte Carlo and molecular dynamics simulation data for bilayers of dipalmitoyl phosphatidyl choline and cholesterol for dipalmitoyl phosphatidyl choline:cholesterol ratios of 24:1, 47:3, 11.5:1, 8:1, 7:1, 4:1, 3:1, 2:1, and 1:1, using long molecular dynamics runs and interspersed configurational bias Monte Carlo to ensure equilibration and enhance sampling. In all cases with cholesterol concentrations above 12.5% the area per molecule of the heterogeneous membrane varied linearly with cholesterol fraction. By extrapolation to pure cholesterol, we find the cross-sectional area of cholesterol in these mixtures is approximately 22.3 A(2). From the slope of the area/molecule relationship, we also find that the phospholipid in these mixtures is in a liquid ordered state with an average cross-sectional area per lipid of 50.7 A(2), slightly above the molecular area of a pure phospholipid gel. For lower concentrations of cholesterol, the molecular area rises above the straight line, indicating the &quot;melting&quot; of at least some of the phospholipid into a fluid state. Analysis of the lateral distribution of cholesterol molecules in the leaflets reveals peaks in radial distributions of cholesterols at multiples of approximately 5 A. These peaks grow in size as the simulation progresses, suggesting a tendency for small subunits of one lipid plus one cholesterol, hydrogen bonded together, to act as one composite particle, and perhaps to aggregate with other composites. Our results are consistent with experimentally observed effects of cholesterol, including the condensation effect of cholesterol in phospholipid monolayers and the tendency of cholesterol-rich domains to form in cholesterol-lipid bilayers. We are continuing to analyze this tendency on longer timescales and for larger bilayer patches.
Cracking the neural code has long been a central issue in neuroscience. However, it has been proved difficult because there logically exist an infinite number of other models and interpretations that could account for the same data and phenomena (i.e. the problem of underdetermination). Therefore, I suggest that applying biologically realistic multiple constraints from ion-channel level to system level (e.g. cognitive neuroscience and human brain disorders) can only solve the problem of underdetermination. Here I have explored whether the noise shaping/predictive neural coding hypothesis can provide a unified view on following realistic multiple constraints: (1) cortical gain control mechanisms in vivo; (2) the relationships between acetylcholine, nicotine, dopamine, calcium-activated potassium ion-channel, and cognitive functions; (3) oscillations and synchrony; (4) why should spontaneous activity be irregular; (5) whether the cortical neurons in vivo are coincidence detectors or integrators; and (6) the causal relationship between theta oscillation, gamma band fluctuation, and P3 (or P300) ERP responses. Finally, recent experimental results supporting the unified view shall be discussed.
This report addresses the nature of population coding in sensory cortex by applying information theoretic analysis to data recorded simultaneously from neuron pairs located in primary somatosensory cortex of anaesthetised rats. We studied how cortical spike trains code for the location of a whisker stimulus on the rat's snout. We found that substantially more information was conveyed by 10 ms precision spike timing compared with that conveyed by the number of spikes counted over a 40 ms response interval. Most of this information was accounted for by the timing of individual spikes. In particular, it was the first post-stimulus spikes that were crucial. Spike patterns within individual cells played a smaller role; spike patterns across cells were negligible. This pattern of results was robust both to the exact nature of the stimulus set and to the precision at which spikes were binned.
Attentional selection implies preferential treatment of some sensory stimuli over others. This requires differential representation of attended and unattended stimuli. Most previous research has focused on pure rate codes for this representation but recent evidence indicates that a mixed code, involving both mean firing rate and temporal codes, may be employed. Of particular interest is a distinction of attended from unattended stimuli based on synchrony within neural populations. I review electrophysiological evidence at macroscopic, mesoscopic and microscopic spatial scales showing that the degree of synchronous activity varies with the attentional state of the perceiving organism.
Revealing the role of bursts of action potentials is an important step toward understanding how the neurons communicate. The dominant point of view is that bursts are needed to increase the reliability of communication between neurons [Trends Neurosci. 20 (1997) 38]. In this paper we present an alternative but complementary hypothesis. We consider the effect of a short burst on a model postsynaptic cell having damped oscillation of its membrane potential. The oscillation frequency (eigenfrequency) plays a crucial role. Due to the subthreshold membrane resonance and frequency preference, the responses (i.e. voltage oscillations) of such a cell are amplified when the intra-burst frequency equals the cell's eigenfrequency. Responses are negligible, however, if the intra-burst frequency is twice the eigenfrequency. Thus, the same burst could be effective for one cell and ineffective for another depending on their eigenfrequencies. This theoretical observation suggests that, in addition to coping with unreliable synapses, bursts of action potentials may provide effective mechanisms for selective communication between neurons.
It is widely accepted that neural information is encoded in the timing of action potentials. However, such information can only be transmitted if the receiver (soma, muscle fibre) can measure time precisely. We argue that such timing is inevitably imprecise due to biological fluctuations in receiver function. We show that this leads to a receiver output, where the standard deviation of receiver output noise is proportional to the mean level of the receiver output. Proportional noise is fundamentally distinct from the common assumption of square-root relationship seen in renewal processes (e.g. Poisson noise), which is usually assumed in neural firing patterns. We show that proportional noise may be the limiting constraint in receiver function, and that it could account for such diverse perceptual and motor behaviours encompassed by Weber's and Fitt's laws, as well as the dynamic trajectories of rapid feed-forward motor behaviours such as arm reaching and saccades. We conclude that temporal uncertainty should be potentially a fundamental stochastic constraint on network function and behaviour.
The preferred pattern of a neuron is defined here by the set of features detected by its excitatory inputs. It is shown that the Leaky integrate-and-fire (LIF) model of a neuron has a poor selectivity to its preferred pattern. Its response is determined by the total current injected by input spike trains. Thus, a few inputs with a high activity (an incomplete pattern) can elicit the same response as many inputs (a complete pattern) with a weak activity. A theoretical model of depressing synapse with linear recovery is proposed which eliminates this problem. Using this model, the time-averaged current injected in the soma by a spike train becomes independent on its frequency. The neural code thus becomes binary, and the response strength of the target neuron depends only on the number of active inputs. Simulations show that a biological model of strong synaptic depression has effects similar to those of the ideal linear model. The best selectivity is obtained with long somatic decay time constants (&gt;50 ms) and with depression recovery time constants larger or equal to the somatic decay time constant. Thus, by eliminating information carried in the input firing rate, a neuron can improve its pattern recognition performance.
We study the dynamics of activity in the neural networks of enhanced integrate-and-fire elements (with random noise, refractory periods, signal propagation delay, decay of postsynaptic potential, etc.). We consider the networks composed of two interactive populations of excitatory and inhibitory neurons with all-to-all or random sparse connections. It is shown by computer simulations that the regime of regular oscillations is very stable in a broad range of parameter values. In particular, oscillations are possible even in the case of very sparse and randomly distributed inhibitory connections and high background activity. We describe two scenarios of how oscillations may appear which are similar to Andronov-Hopf and saddle-node-on-limit-cycle bifurcations in dynamical systems. The role of oscillatory dynamics for information encoding and processing is discussed.

Two rare cases of fenestrated anterior cerebral artery associated with aneurysms are described. The importance of identifying this unusual anatomical anomaly and its implication during surgery is discussed.
Recognizing a change in our workload and variabilities in referral patterns, we reviewed our previous activity from 1994 to 2000 retrospectively and examined prospectively formal referrals to the Unit in 2001. Arteriovenous malformations still constitute 30% of referrals and treatments, although as a proportion of our workload, this has declined. Radiosurgery is increasingly being chosen as a first line treatment for small and moderate-sized acoustic neuromas, although referral rates vary widely, some neuroscience units referring all and others none of their acoustic neuromas at least for a radiosurgical opinion. About 100 meningiomas, mainly skull-base and/or recurrent tumours after previous surgery, are now treated per year. Compared with other units world-wide, very few pituitary adenomas and cerebral metastases are treated. The implications of this are discussed.

1. The present study has investigated mechanisms underlying ATP-induced endothelium-independent enhancement of vasomotion in guinea-pig mesenteric lymphatic vessels. 2. Lymphatic vasomotion, vessel tone and smooth muscle [Ca(2+)](i) showed similar ATP concentration-response curves. 3. ATP, at 0.1 mM, caused a biphasic increase in tonic [Ca(2+)](i) and superimposed vasomotion-associated Ca(2+) transients. All ATP-induced [Ca(2+)](i) changes were abolished by incubating the smooth muscle with suramin (0.1 mM). 4. alpha,beta-MeATP (0.1 mM) and UTP (0.1 mM) caused similar changes in [Ca(2+)](i) but the responses to these agonists were smaller than to ATP. 5. The actions of alpha,beta-MeATP (0.1 mM) were inhibited by suramin (0.1 mM) and PPADS (30 micro M) but not by reactive blue 2 (30 micro M). 6. In the presence of alpha,beta-MeATP (0.1 mM), the increases in tonic [Ca(2+)](i) and vasomotion-associated Ca(2+) transients induced by ATP (0.1 mM) were inhibited by U73122 (5 micro M), CPA (20 micro M) and heparin, whereas U73343 (5 micro M) and pre-treatment with PTx (100 ng ml(-1)) had no significant effects. 7. Depletion of the intracellular stores with CPA (20 micro M) caused an increase in [Ca(2+)](i), which was not blocked by desensitization of P(2X) receptors with alpha,beta-MeATP. 8. The data indicate that ATP, at relatively high concentrations increases lymphatic smooth muscle [Ca(2+)](i) and vasomotion through activation of P(2X1) and P(2Y2) purinoceptors present on lymphatic smooth muscle. The increase in [Ca(2+)](i) is likely to result from Ca(2+) release from inositol-1,4,5-trisphosphate-sensitive stores as well as Ca(2+) influx through store-operated channels and P(2X)-gated channels.
1 This study reports on the pharmacological characterization of ZP120, a novel ligand of the nociceptin/orphanin FQ (N/OFQ) peptide receptor, NOP. ZP120 is a structure inducing probes modified NOP ligand: Zealand Pharma proprietary SIP technology was used to increase the enzymatic stability and half-life of peptide. 2 In vitro, ZP120 mimicked the inhibitory effects of N/OFQ in the electrically stimulated mouse vas deferens, showing however higher potency (pEC(50) 8.88 vs 7.74), lower maximal effects (E(max) 69+/-5% vs 91+/-2%), and slower onset of action. Like N/OFQ, the effects of ZP120 were not modified by 1 micro M naloxone, but they were antagonized by the NOP receptor selective antagonist J-113397 (pA(2) 7.80 vs ZP120, 7.81 vs N/OFQ). 3 In vivo, ZP120 mimicked the effects of N/OFQ, producing pronociceptive effects in the tail withdrawal assay and decreased locomotor activity after i.c.v., but not after i.v. administration in mice. ZP120 elicited similar maximal effects as N/OFQ, but it was about 10 fold more potent and its effects lasted longer. 4 In conclusion, the novel NOP receptor ligand ZP120 is a highly potent and selective partial agonist of the NOP receptor with prolonged effects in vivo.
In 20% of potential surgical candidates with refractory epilepsy, current optimal MRI does not identify the cause. GABA is the principal inhibitory neurotransmitter in the brain, and GABA(A) receptors are expressed by most neurones. [(11)C]Flumazenil (FMZ) PET images the majority of GABA(A) receptor subtypes. We investigated abnormalities of FMZ binding in grey and white matter in 18 patients with refractory temporal lobe epilepsy (TLE) and normal quantitative MRI. Parametric images of FMZ volume of distribution (FMZ-V(d)) were calculated. Twenty-one healthy controls were scanned for comparison. Statistical parametric mapping (SPM99) was used to localize significant changes in FMZ-V(d) in individual patients and between groups, specifically including the entire white matter in all subjects through explicit masking. Sixteen of 18 patients showed single or multiple abnormalities of FMZ-V(d). Six had hippocampal decreases of FMZ-V(d). Eleven patients showed increased FMZ-V(d) in the temporal lobe white matter (TLWM). Outside the mesial temporal structures, seven showed multiple areas of increase or decrease and only one a single area of decrease. In seven of the 16 patients with abnormalities, findings were concordant with EEG and clinical data, enabling further presurgical evaluation. Group findings were: (i) decreased FMZ-V(d) in the ipsilateral (Z = 3.01) and contralateral (Z = 2.56) hippocampus; (ii) increased FMZ-V(d) in the ipsilateral (Z = 3.71) and contralateral TLWM (two clusters, Z = 3.11 and 2.79); and (iii) increased FMZ-V(d) in the ipsilateral frontal lobe white matter between the superior and medial frontal gyrus (Z = 3.80) with similar changes contralaterally (Z = 4.87). No changes were found in the thalamus and basal ganglia. Region-of-interest analyses indicated an average increase in FMZ binding of 16% in the TLWM ipsilateral to the epileptic focus. PET findings were corroborated by invasive EEG or pathology in five cases. FMZ-PET, analysed by SPM with explicit masking, was sensitive in patients with normal MRI, and hippocampal abnormalities were detected in a third of these patients. Furthermore, increases in FMZ binding in TLWM, indicating microdysgenesis, were detected in the majority of these patients and may represent the structural basis of their epilepsy.
Molecular and clinical characterization of parkin-associated parkinsonism is well described; however, there are no data available on progression of dopamine terminal dysfunction in parkin-associated disease. We have used [(18)F]dopa PET serially to study members of a family with young-onset parkinsonism who are compound heterozygous for mutations in the parkin gene, having an exonic deletion and a novel intronic splice site mutation. Four patients have been studied twice, 10 years apart, to assess disease progression. Additionally, we have studied five asymptomatic family members, four of whom carry a single parkin mutation and one individual who has a normal genotype. Two of the carriers and the individual with the normal genotype had repeat [(18)F]dopa PET. The group of parkin patients showed a significantly slower loss of putamen [(18)F]dopa uptake (P = 0.0008) compared with a group of idiopathic Parkinson's disease (IPD) patients who had baseline putamen [(18)F]dopa uptake and disease severity similar to the parkin group. These results indicate that disease progression in patients with parkin mutations is slower than that of IPD patients. The group of asymptomatic parkin carriers also showed significant striatal dopaminergic dysfunction, and three of them developed subtle extrapyramidal signs. However, the two carriers scanned twice showed no progression over a 7-year period. The slower rate of disease progression in parkin patients may explain the near normal longevity of these patients with young onset parkinsonism.
The waning and waxing of neurogenesis in brain areas such as the dentate gyrus is proposed as a key factor in the descent into and recovery from clinical depression, respectively. A decrease in neurogenesis could occur due to genetic factors, stress (especially because of the involvement of adrenal corticoids), and/or a decline in serotonergic neurotransmission. An increase in neurogenesis could be brought about by several factors, but especially those that activate the serotonin 5-HT(1A) receptor. The possible interaction of immune system factors, especially the proinflammatory cytokines, with adult brain neurogenesis is discussed.
Although human studies have emphasized a role for IL-2 in depressive illness, limited attention has been devoted to the behavioral and neurochemical effects of this cytokine in animal studies. The present review assesses the behavioral effects of IL-2 in rodents, in counterpoint to the effects of interleukin-1beta (IL-1beta), necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha) and endotoxin challenge. Unlike IL-1beta, systemic IL-2 provokes modest effects on hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) functioning, and does not provoke marked signs of illness or anxiety. In some respects, however, IL-2 elicits effects reminiscent of traditional stressors, including anhedonia (diminished pleasure gained from otherwise rewarding stimuli). Additionally, when chronically administered, IL-2 may impact on cognitive processes, including spatial working memory. While IL-2 may induce depressive-like symptoms, the available data are sparse, have hardly considered the impact of chronic cytokine treatment, only assessed behavior in a narrow range of tests, and it remains to be established whether the effects of IL-2 are modifiable by antidepressant treatments. Finally, as the effects of IL-2 on CNS processes vary in a biphasic fashion, and may also engender neurotoxic effects, further analyses are necessary to discern under what conditions this cytokine provokes depressive-like behavioral outcomes.
It has been suggested that immune activation, and particularly increased activity of several cytokines, notably interleukin-1, interleukin-2, interleukin-6, tumor necrosis factor-alpha as well as their soluble receptors is characteristic of depression. Normalization of cytokine activity does not necessarily occur following successful antidepressant, suggesting that cytokines may be trait markers of depression, or simply represent bystander effects of the illness. The relationship between cytokines and depression is complicated as a variety factors could directly or indirectly influence cytokine activity. While cytokine elevations are most pronounced in severe (melancholic) depression, their activity may also be related to chronicity of illness, neurovegetative features of depression (altered sleep patterns, food intake, weight changes, fatigue or general activity), or the high stress perception characteristic of depression. Although, studies assessing cytokines in depressive populations are basically correlational in nature, patients receiving cytokine immunotherapy frequently show depressive symptoms, which may be attenuated by antidepressant medication, supporting a causal role for cytokines in depressive disorders. The processes underlying such outcomes remain to be established, but the affective changes may stem from the neuroendocrine and central neurochemical changes elicited by cytokines, as these are reminiscent of those associated thought to subserve depression.
The relationships between route-learning strategies and circulating testosterone and estradiol levels were investigated in men and women. Testosterone and estradiol concentrations were measured by salivary assays and route-learning strategies were assessed using a direction-giving paradigm based on a novel map. Testosterone was positively correlated with the use of male-biased route-learning strategies in men, but not in women. These findings suggest sex-specific patterns of relationships between circulating testosterone and spatial processing, which apply to everyday spatial behavior.
We describe a protocol for analysis of gene expression in single, acutely dissociated adult rat retinal ganglion cells using RT-PCR. Retrograde tracing of retinal ganglion cells from the superior colliculi was conducted using Fluorogold. Retinas were dissected and ganglion cells isolated using retinal layer separation (sandwiching). Single, fluorescently labelled retinal ganglion cells were aspirated using a micropipette and used for PCR. Two PCR protocols are described where single cell cDNA was analysed for TrkB and GAPDH or TrkB, TrkC, Ret, Met, ErbB2 and Beta-actin by multiplex-PCR. All five tyrosine kinase receptors were amplified from single retinal ganglion cells. The method will prove useful for the molecular characterization of adult retinal ganglion cells.
Spinal motoneurons represent neurons with axons located in both the central (CNS) and peripheral (PNS) nervous systems. Following a lesion to their axons in the PNS, motoneurons are able to regenerate. The regenerative capacity of these neurons is seen also after lesion in the ventral funiculus of the spinal cord, i.e. within the CNS compartment. Thus, after an axotomy within the ventral funiculus, motoneurons respond with a changing polarity towards production of axons, sometimes even from the dendritic tree. This capacity can be used in cases of ventral root avulsion (VRA) lesions, if a conduit for outgrowing axons is presented in the form of replanted ventral roots. In human cases, this procedure may accomplish return of function in denervated muscles. The strong regenerative capacity of motoneurons provides the basis for studies of the response in motoneurons with regard to their contents of substances related to survival and regeneration. Such studies have shown that, of the large number of receptors for neurotrophic substances and extracellular matrix molecules, mRNAs for receptors or receptor components for neurotrophin-3 (NT-3), ciliary neurotrophic factor (CNTF) and leukemia inhibitory factor (LIF) are strongly downregulated after VRA, while receptors for glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF) and laminins are profoundly upregulated. These results should be considered in the design of combined pharmacological and surgical approaches to lesions of motor axons at or close to the CNS-PNS interface.
Deafferentation of the spinal cord by interruption of the sensory fibers in the dorsal roots highlights the problem of regeneration failure in the central nervous system. The injured dorsal root axons regenerate steadily, albeit slowly, in the peripheral compartment of the dorsal root, but abruptly cease to elongate when confronted with the interface between the peripheral and central nervous system, the dorsal root transitional zone (DRTZ). The glial cells of the CNS and their products together form this regeneration barrier. Recent years have witnessed several successful approaches to, at least in part, overcome this barrier. Particularly promising results have been obtained by (1). the replacement of adult non-regenerating dorsal root ganglion neurons with corresponding cells from embryonic or fetal donors, (2). the implantation of olfactory ensheathing cells at the DRTZ, and (3). immediate intrathecal infusion of growth factors to which dorsal root ganglion cells respond. In all these instances, growth of sensory axons into the adult spinal cord, as well as return of spinal cord connectivity, have been demonstrated. These findings suggest routes towards treatment strategies for plexus avulsion, and contribute to our understanding of possibilities to overcome regeneration failure in the spinal cord.
During development, brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) supports the survival of certain neuronal population in central and peripheral nervous system. In adulthood, BDNF has been suggested to act as an important modulator of synaptic plasticity. This article reviews and discusses its potential role as neuromodulator in the spinal dorsal horn. BDNF is synthesized in the cell body of primary sensory neurons (pre-synaptic neurons) and its expression is regulated in models of inflammatory and neuropathic pain. The high affinity receptor for BDNF, tropomyosine receptor kinase B (TrkB), is expressed by post-synaptic neurons of the dorsal horn. Stimulation of pre-synaptic nociceptive afferent fibres induces BDNF release and consequent activation of TrkB receptors leading to a post-synaptic excitability. Electrophysiological recordings showed that BDNF enhances the ventral root potential induced by C-fibre stimulation in an in vitro preparation. In addition, behavioural data indicate that antagonism of BDNF attenuates the second phase of hyperalgesia induced by formalin (in nerve growth factor-treated animals) and the thermal hyperalgesia induced by carageenan, suggesting that BDNF is involved in some aspects of central sensitisation in conditions of peripheral inflammation. In conclusion, BDNF meets many of the criteria necessary to define it as a neurotransmitter/neuromodulator in small diameter nociceptive neurons.
Sensitization of nociceptive dorsal horn neurons, including spinothalamic tract (STT) cells, is thought to underlie the development of secondary hyperalgesia and allodynia following tissue injury. In central sensitization, responses to stimulation of sensory receptors are enhanced without any change in the excitability of the primary afferent neurons. We hypothesize that central sensitization of STT neurons is a variety of long-term potentiation (LTP). Evidence that LTP occurs in the spinal cord is reviewed. Neurotransmitters that trigger central sensitization include excitatory amino acids and peptides. Evidence for this is that co-activation of N-methyl-D-aspartate and NK1 receptors can produce long-lasting increases in the responses of STT cells, and antagonists of these receptors prevent central sensitization. Responses to excitatory amino acids increase and those to inhibitory amino acids decrease during central sensitization, presumably accounting for the changed excitability of STT cells. We believe these changes result from the activation of signal transduction pathways, including the protein kinase C, NO/protein kinase G and protein kinase A cascades. Recent evidence shows that calcium/calmodulin dependent kinase II (CaMKII) is also upregulated early in the process of central sensitization and that several types of ionotropic glutamate receptors become phosphorylated. It is proposed that the phosphorylation of neurotransmitter receptors leads to alterations in the sensitivity of these receptors and to central sensitization. Comparable events occur during LTP in brain structures.
In the lamprey, the reticulospinal (RS) system is the main descending system transmitting commands to the spinal cord. We investigated these commands and their effect on the spinal mechanisms. The RS commands were studied by recording responses of RS neurons to sensory stimuli eliciting different motor behaviors. Initiation of locomotion was associated with symmetrical bilateral massive activation of RS neurons, whereas turns in different planes were associated with asymmetrical activation of corresponding neuronal groups. The sub-populations of RS neurons causing different motor behaviors partly overlap. We suggest that commands for initiation of locomotion and regulation of its vigour, encoded as the value of bilateral RS activity, are decoded in the spinal cord by integrating all RS signals arriving at the segmental locomotor networks. Commands for turns in different planes, encoded as an asymmetry in the activities of specific groups of RS neurons, are decoded by comparing the activities of those groups. This hypothesis was supported by the experiments on a neuro-mechanical model, where the difference between the activities in the left and right RS pathways was used to control a motor rotating the animal in the roll plane. Transformation of the descending commands into the motor responses was investigated by recording the effects of individual RS neurons on the motor output. Twenty patterns of influences have been found. This great diversity of the patterns allows the RS system to evoke body flexion in any plane. Since most neurons have asymmetrical projections we suggest that, for rectilinear swimming, RS neurons with opposite asymmetrical effects are co-activated.
Neuronal circuits involved in left-right coordination are a fundamental feature of rhythmic locomotor movements. These circuits necessarily include commissural interneurons (CINs) that have axons crossing the midline of the spinal cord. The properties of CINs have been described in some detail in the spinal cords of a number of aquatic vertebrates including the Xenopus tadpole and the lamprey. However, their function in left-right coordination of limb movements in mammals is poorly understood. In this review we describe the present understanding of commissural pathways in the functioning of spinal cord central pattern generators (CPGs). The means by which reciprocal inhibition and integration of sensory information are maintained in swimming vertebrates is described, with similarities between the three basic populations of commissural interneurons highlighted. The subsequent section concentrates on recent evidence from mammalian limbed preparations and specifically the isolated spinal cord of the neonatal rat. Studies into the role of CPG elements during drug-induced locomotor-like activity have afforded a better understanding of the location of commissural pathways, such that it is now possible, using whole cell patch clamp, to record from anatomically defined CINs located in the rhythm-generating region of the lumbar segments. Initial results would suggest that the firing pattern of these neurons shows a greater diversity than that previously described in swimming central pattern generators. Spinal CINs play an important role in the generation of locomotor output. Increased knowledge as to their function in producing locomotion is likely to provide valuable insights into the spinal networks required for postural control and walking.
The isolated brainstem-spinal cord of the lamprey is used as an experimental model in the analysis of the cellular bases of vertebrate locomotor behaviour. In this article we review the neural mechanisms involved in the control of steering, intersegmental co-ordination, as well as the segmental burst generation and the sensory contribution to motor pattern generation. Within these four components of the control system for locomotion, we now have good knowledge of not only the neurones that take part and their synaptic interactions, but also the membrane properties of these neurones, including ion channel subtypes, and their contribution to motor pattern generation.
In the mammalian brain, serotonergic neurons in the medulla (n. raphe magnus, obscurus, and pallidus) send dense projections into the spinal cord, especially to the dorsal horn, intermediolateral column, and ventral horn. We have conducted a series of studies examining the single unit activity of these neurons in behaving cats. The experiments were directed at determining whether changes in unit activity were related to pain (n. raphe magnus), autonomic activity (n. raphe obscurus and pallidus), or motor activity (n. raphe obscurus and pallidus). The strongest relationship was between neuronal activity and motor output, especially tonic and repetitive motor activity. We hypothesize that the primary functions of this motor-related activity are to facilitate motor output, suppress processing of some forms of afferent activity, and to coordinate autonomic functioning with the current motor demand.
Spinal networks generate the motor pattern underlying locomotion. These are subject to modulatory systems that influence their operation and thereby result in a flexible network organization. In this review, we have summarized the mechanisms by which the different metabotropic glutamate receptor subtypes fine-tune the cellular and synaptic properties and thus underlie intrinsic modulation of the activity of the locomotor network in the lamprey.
We have identified a novel gene that encodes an evolutionary conserved protein that we name membralin since it contains multiple transmembrane regions. The human gene C19orf6 localizes to chromosome 19p13.3. Splice variant membralin-1 is encoded by 11 exons, translating into 620 amino acids. In addition, we found evidence for two additional splice variants in the human. The mouse gene ORF61 localizes to chromosome 10. We cloned two splice variants in mouse: membralin-1, which is encoded by 12 exons, translating into 574 amino acids, and membralin-2, which translates into 598 amino acids. The existence of rat membralin-1 (574 amino acids long) is, so far, only supported by in situ hybridization result, whereas the existence of rat membralin-2 (598 amino acids long) is strongly supported by overlapping ESTs. Gene homologues were also identified in fruit-fly (CG8405, chromosome 2R 52; two splice variants), nematode (chromosome III), and Arabidopsis thaliana (chromosome 1). Sequence analysis revealed no closely related genes, suggesting that membralin represents the sole member of a unique protein family.
Changes in gene/protein expression markedly outlast the transient changes in behavior evoked by a single dose of a psychostimulant. These changes in gene expression are thought to underlie and/or trigger enduring changes in neuroplasticity that lead to drug addiction. We used cDNA arrays to gain a more complete picture of changes in striatal gene expression 1 and 3 h after an acute injection of amphetamine. Consistent, reliable gene expression changes were detected when criteria of at least a 1.5-fold difference and three replicate hybridizations using independent samples were performed. Using these criteria, the mRNA for three immediate early genes (IEGs), coding for activity-regulated cytoskeletal-associated protein (Arc), nerve growth factor-induced protein A (NGFI-A; early growth response protein 1) and nerve growth factor-induced protein B (NGFI-B), were upregulated 1 and 3 h after amphetamine as previously described. Novel genes, RL/IF-1 (coding for I kappa B alpha chain) and serum/glucocorticoid-regulated serine/threonine protein kinase (SGK) also were increased throughout the striatum, at 1 but not 3 h. Conversely, amphetamine increased the mRNA coding for the secretogranin II precursor (chromogranin C) only at the 3 h time point when a specific decrease in regulator of G-protein signaling 4 (RGS4) mRNA was also observed. Gene changes and unique patterns of expression were verified by in situ hybridization, providing valuable information about changes in gene expression in response to acute amphetamine.
Hypothalamic sites wherein P4, through progestin receptor, (Pgr; commonly abbreviated PR), maximizes the expression of female sexual behaviors and gonadotropin surge release have been studied intensively. However, little is known regarding PR expression in brainstem regions likely to regulate changes in autonomic functions observed when P4 levels are elevated (i.e. pregnancy). Using in situ hybridization, we found PR mRNA-containing cells widely distributed throughout the brainstem of ovariectomized, estradiol-treated Sprague-Dawley rats, with high expression in regions including the medial vestibular nucleus, nucleus of the solitary tract, substantia nigra (compact part), ventral tegmental area, hypoglossal nucleus, locus coeruleus, Purkinje cell layer of the cerebellum and inferior olivary complex. We also detected moderate to high levels of PR gene expression in several regions, such as the trapezoid nucleus, facial nucleus, periaqueductal gray regions, and rostral ventrolateral medulla. These results demonstrate that PR expression is widespread in the brainstem and identify nuclei wherein P4 may act to influence a number of physiological functions during pregnancy.
The Authors of this work propose to give an evaluation about actual relationship between posture and occlusion, trying of to give some indications about posture's meaning, organizing the relation about five points: Posture's definition Posture's history Posture's models of study Occlusal support en posture Diagnostic procedures.

Striated muscle represents one of the best models for studies on Ca(2+) signalling. However, although much is known on the localisation and molecular interactions of the ryanodine receptors (RyRs), far less is known on the localisation and on the molecular interactions of the inositol trisphosphate receptors (InsP(3)Rs) in striated muscle cells. Recently, members of the Homer protein family have been shown to cluster type 1 metabotropic glutamate receptors (mGluR1) in the plasma membrane and to interact with InsP(3)R in the endoplasmic reticulum of neurons. Thus, these scaffolding proteins are good candidates for organising plasma membrane receptors and intracellular effector proteins in signalosomes involved in intracellular Ca(2+) signalling. Homer proteins are also expressed in skeletal muscle, and the type 1 ryanodine receptor (RyR1) contains a specific Homer-binding motif. We report here on the relative sub-cellular localisation of InsP(3)Rs and Homer proteins in skeletal muscle cells with respect to the localisation of RyRs. Immunofluorescence analysis showed that both Homer and InsP(3)R proteins present a staining pattern indicative of a localisation at the Z-line, clearly distinct from that of RyR1. Consistent herewith, in sub-cellular fractionation experiments, Homer proteins and InsP(3)R were both found in the fractions enriched in longitudinal sarcoplasmic reticulum (LSR) but not in fractions of terminal cisternae that are enriched in RyRs. Thus, in skeletal muscle, Homer proteins may play a role in the organisation of a second Ca(2+) signalling compartment containing the InsP(3)R, but are apparently not involved in the organisation of RyRs at triads.
Excess endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress induces processing of caspase-12, which is located in the ER, and cell death. However, little is known about the relationship between caspase-12 processing and cell death. We prepared antisera against putative caspase-12 cleavage sites (anti-m12D318 and anti-m12D341) and showed that overexpression of caspase-12 induced autoprocessing at D(318) but did not induce cell death. Mutation analysis confirmed that D(318) was a unique autoprocessing site. In contrast, tunicamycin, one of the ER stress stimuli, induced caspase-12 processing at the N-terminal region and the C-terminal region (both at D(318) and D(341)) and cell death. Anti-m12D318 and anti-m12D341 immunoreactivities were located in the ER of the tunicamycin-treated cells, and some immunoreactivities were located around and in the nuclei of the apoptotic cells. Thus, processing at the N-terminal region may be necessary for the translocation of processed caspase-12 into nuclei and cell death induced by ER stress. Some of the caspase-12 processed at the N-terminal and C-terminal regions may directly participate in the apoptotic events in nuclei.
There is growing evidence linking the pathophysiology of lung disease to an imbalance state of reduction-oxidation (redox) equilibrium. The therapeutic potential of glutathione, an ubiquitous sulfhydryl thiol, and its immunopharmacological properties in the airway epithelium bears clinical consequences for the paediatric treatment of respiratory distress (RD). Dynamic variation in alveolar pO(2) and its effect on redox state may impose a direct role in modulating the pattern of gene expression in lung tissues and, accordingly, could be pivotal in determining cellular fate under these conditions. Hypoxia-inducible factor-1alpha (HIF-1alpha) and nuclear factor-kappaB (NF-kappaB) are redox-sensitive transcription factors of particular importance because their differential activation by reducing and oxidizing signals, respectively, regulate the expression/suppression of O(2)-responsive genes. The regulation of these transcription factors, therefore, which is redox sensitive, is consistent with their roles in coordinating adaptive homeostatic responses to oxidative stress. Functionally, the relationship between O(2), glutathione biosynthesis and transcription factor activity bears typical implications for the pattern of cellular survivorship and alveolarization on exposure to O(2)-linked stresses. In this review, I discuss (1) the HIF-1alpha/NF-kappaB responsiveness to dynamic changes in pO(2) characteristic of the transition period from placental to pulmonary-based respiration, (2) the capacity of the alveolar epithelium to engage in glutathione biosynthesis and redox shuttling, effectively forming a feedback mechanism governing gene expression, (3) the restitution of antioxidant/prooxidant equilibrium following oxidative challenge and its dependency on the adaptive coordination of responses between redox-associated signalling pathways controlling apoptosis and genetic regulatory factors and (4) a likely association between oxidative stress and the evolution of an inflammatory signal through the pleiotropic O(2)-sensitive cytokines.
Caveolin, a 20-24 kDa integral membrane protein, is a principal component of caveolar domains. Caveolin-1 is expressed predominantly in endothelial cells, fibroblasts, and adipocytes, while the expression of caveolin-3 is confined to muscle cells. However, their localization in various muscles has not been well documented. Using double-immunofluorescence labeling and confocal laser microscopy, we examined the localization of caveolins-1 and 3 in adult monkey skeletal, cardiac and uterine smooth muscles and the co-immunolocalization of these caveolins with dystrophin, which is a product of the Duchenne muscular dystrophy gene. In the skeletal muscle tissue, caveolin-3 was localized along the sarcolemma except for the transverse tubules, and co-immunolocalized with dystrophin, whereas caveolin-1 was absent except in the blood vessels of the muscle tissue. In cardiac muscle cells, caveolins-1 and -3 and dystrophin were co-immunolocalized on the sarcolemma and transverse tubules. In uterine smooth muscle cells, caveolin-1, but not caveolin-3, was co-immunolocalized with dystrophin on the sarcolemma.
Prevalence studies exploring the relation between socio-economic status (SES) and headache have shown conflicting results. This is the first prospective study analysing the relation between SES and risk of headache. A total of 22685 adults not likely to suffer from headache were classified by SES at baseline in 1984-1986, and responded to a headache questionnaire in a follow-up 11 years later (1995-1997). SES at baseline was defined by educational level, occupation, and income. The risk of frequent headache and chronic headache (&gt;6, and &gt; or =15 days/month, respectively) at follow-up was estimated in relation to SES. When defining SES by educational level or type of occupation, low status was associated with increased risk of frequent and chronic headache at follow-up. The risk of frequent and chronic headache decreased with increasing individual income, but only among men. We conclude that individuals with low SES had higher risk of frequent and chronic headache than people with high SES.
In the prefrontal cortex of subjects with schizophrenia, markers of the synthesis and re-uptake of GABA appear to be selectively altered in a subset of interneurons that includes chandelier cells. Determining the effect of these disturbances in presynaptic GABA markers on inhibitory signaling requires knowledge of the status of GABA(A) receptors at the postsynaptic targets of chandelier cells, the axon initial segments (AIS) of pyramidal neurons. Because the alpha(2) subunit of the GABA(A) receptor is preferentially localized at pyramidal neuron AIS, we quantified alpha(2) subunit immunoreactive AIS in tissue sections containing prefrontal cortex area 46 from 14 matched triads of subjects with schizophrenia, subjects with major depression and control subjects. Systematic, random sampling revealed that the mean number of alpha(2)-labeled AIS per mm(2) in subjects with schizophrenia was significantly (P = 0.007) increased by 113% compared to control subjects and non-significantly increased compared to subjects with major depression. Furthermore, within subjects with schizophrenia, the density of alpha(2)-labeled AIS was negatively correlated (r = -0.49, P = 0.038) with the density of chandelier axon terminals immunoreactive for the GABA membrane transporter. These data suggest that GABA(A) receptors are up-regulated at pyramidal neuron AIS in response to deficient GABA neuro-transmission at chandelier axon terminals in schizophrenia. Thus, disturbances in inhibition at the chandelier neuron-pyramidal neuron synapse may be a critical component of prefrontal cortical dysfunction in schizophrenia.
Perception of odours can provoke explicit reactions such as judgements of intensity or pleasantness, and implicit output such as skin conductance or heart rate variations. The main purpose of the present experiment was to ascertain: (i) the correlation between odour ratings (intensity, arousal, pleasantness and familiarity) and activation of the autonomic nervous system, and (ii) the inter-correlation between self-report ratings on intensity, arousal, pleasantness and familiarity dimensions in odour perception. Twelve healthy volunteers were tested in two separate sessions. Firstly, subjects were instructed to smell six odorants (isovaleric acid, thiophenol, pyridine, L-menthol, isoamyl acetate, and 1-8 cineole), while skin conductance and heart rate variations were being measured. During this phase, participants were not asked to give any judgement about the odorants. Secondly, subjects were instructed to rate the odorants on dimensions of intensity, pleasantness, arousal and familiarity (self-report ratings), by giving a mark between 1 (not at all intense, arousing, pleasant or familiar) and 9 (extremely intense, arousing, pleasant or familiar). Results indicated: (i) a pleasantness factor correlated with heart rate variations, (ii) an arousal factor correlated with skin conductance variations, and (iii) a strong correlation between the arousal and intensity dimensions. In conclusion, given that these correlations are also found in other studies using visual and auditory stimuli, these findings provide preliminary information suggesting that autonomic variations in response to olfactory stimuli are probably not modality specific, and may be organized along two main dimensions of pleasantness and arousal, at least for the parameters considered (i.e. heart rate and skin conductance).

The annual risk of stroke in patients with symptomatic carotid artery occlusion (CAO) and impaired cerebral blood flow (CBF) is approximately 10%. Increased oxygen extraction fraction measured by positron emission tomography (PET) and low cerebrovascular reactivity assessed by transcranial Doppler is associated with an increased risk of recurrent ischemic stroke in these patients. Recently, other risk factors have been identified: (1) symptoms of purported hemodynamic origin; (2) ongoing symptoms in the presence of documented symptomatic CAO; (3) leptomeningeal collaterals visible on angiography; and (4) low NAA/choline ratio on magnetic resonance (MR) spectroscopy. Evidence is growing that a second extracranial-intracranial (EC-IC) bypass trial might be worthwhile in patients with symptomatic CAO. Probably, only patients with ongoing symptoms and compromised CBF should be included in such a trial. Current evidence based therapeutic options for patients with symptomatic CAO include antithrombotic medication and control of vascular risk factors. For stenosis of the contralateral internal or ipsilateral external carotid artery endarterectomy may be considered. Ongoing symptoms may cease after tapering of antihypertensive medication.
Several clinical trials have demonstrated that carotid endarterectomy (CE) in symptomatic patients with 70-99% internal carotid artery (ICA) stenosis, when used appropriately in experienced surgical hands (postoperative complications of stroke and death must not exceed 7%) is safe and effective in preventing recurrence of ipsilateral carotid ischemia and, in particular, in preventing disabling ipsilateral stroke. Only five patients need to be treated to prevent one stroke in three years. The time of greatest risk of stroke after the development of symptoms was in the first six months, and the incremental risk decreased out to two years. Instead the risk of stroke with asymptomatic carotid stenosis is low. Forty-five percent of strokes in patients with asymptomatic 60% to 99% stenosis are attributable to lacunes or cardioembolism. Because CE cannot prevent stroke of cardioembolic origin and is less likely to prevent stroke of lacunar origin, it is doubtful that CE can be justified for most patients with asymptomatic arteries.
This paper outlines the characteristics of the inflammatory reaction to brain ischemia with the aim of underlying its relevance and specific implication in the pathogenesis of this disorder. The attention is focused on cytokines, major inflammatory mediators produced in the central nervous system and in the periphery in the context of the response to brain injury. The available data on cytokines in patients with stroke are reviewed to investigate the characteristics of the inflammatory response in human samples and to elucidate if the production of these inflammatory molecules may be related to the clinical outcome.
Genetic factors are important in the pathogenesis of cerebrovascular diseases. Stroke represents a multifactorial polygenic disorder where the role of environmental factors is quite well defined as opposed to the role of genetic factors which needs to be further elucidated. Several genes affecting hemostasis, renin-angiotensin system, nitric oxide production, homocysteine metabolism and lipid metabolism have been investigated in stroke even if with conflicting results. The genetic approach could permit, in the future, a better characterization of stroke patients and a more effective individual preventive and therapeutic approach.
Antiphospholipid (aPL) antibodies are a wide and heterogeneous group of closely related immunoglobulins that have specificity for a number of phospholipids (PLs), PL-binding proteins, including beta2 glycoprotein I (beta2GP1), prothrombin, and PL-protein complexes. Antiphospholipid antibodies are currently detected by a standard solid-phase immunoassay such as anticardiolipin (aCL) antibodies. Although the association between aCL antibodies and thrombosis is well recognized, their role in stroke pathogenesis, and the possibility that they are an independent stroke risk factors in the general stroke population, remains to be determined. There are other negatively charged PL, largely represented within the cellular membrane and involved in the coagulation. Different studies have demonstrated a positive correlation among other aPL and stroke.
Many case-control and cohort studies have identified a strong, independent and dose-related association between moderate hyperhomocyst(e)inemia and atherosclerotic vascular disease, with respect to the pathogenetic link between hyperhomocyst(e)inemia and stroke, the possible role in inducing an endothelial wall damage deserves special attention. Some prospective cohort studies have failed to demonstrate a positive association between elevated homocyst(e)ine (Hcy) levels and stroke. Further studies are needed, in order to better characterize the association between Hcy concentrations and risk of stroke.
This study reports the characteristics of stroke patients admitted to our hospital in the period Jan 1st, 1998-Dec 31st 1999. Seven hundred and ninety seven consecutive subjects (412 males; mean age 71 +/- 13 years) with a first-ever stroke were registered. Two-thirds of patients (65%) were admitted to the Stroke Unit (SU). The remaining part was managed in six general medicine wards (GM) or other services [neurosurgery and intensive care units (ICU+ NS)]. Ischemic stroke occurred in 534 subjects (67%). The high prevalence (30.1%) of haemorrhages can be partly explained by the presence of specialized neurosurgical services. Athero-thrombotic infarctions occurred in 21.7% of patients, lacunar in 24.7%, cardioembolic in 18.1%, other determined in 6.1%, and other undetermined in 27.5%. Overall hospital mortality was 10%. In cerebral hemorrhage mortality was 18% (44/240) vs. 6.3% (32/534) in ischemic stroke (p &lt; 0.05). The distribution of stroke types and mortality was similar to other previous reports.



Schizophrenia is viewed by most as having a neuropsychological component, with deficits primarily occurring in the areas of attention/concentration, memory, and executive functioning. These deficits often contribute to difficulties in everyday living and social functioning. The purpose of this study is to examine the efficacy of cognitive rehabilitation methods, typically utilized by brain-injured patients, to improve the executive functioning skills of patients with schizophrenia spectrum disorders. While this pilot study is limited in terms of sample size, results suggest that the addition of cognitive rehabilitation to the comprehensive treatment of schizophrenia could be beneficial in enhancing daily living skills.
Hypothermia as a protectant of neurologic function in the treatment of cardiac arrest patients, although not a new concept, is now supported by two recent randomized, prospective clinical trials. The basic science research in support of the effects of hypothermia at the cellular and animal levels is extensive. The process of cooling for cerebral protection holds potential promise for human resuscitation efforts in multiple realms. It appears that, at least, those patients who suffer a witnessed cardiac arrest with ventricular fibrillation and early restoration of spontaneous circulation, such as those who were included in the European and Australian trials (discussed here), should be considered for hypothermic therapy.
Periglomerular cells in the olfactory bulb are the 'gatekeepers' of the olfactory system. A recent study shows that these cells inhibit themselves by releasing GABA from their own dendrites.
At present, a growing number of laboratories are acquiring the capability of simultaneously monitoring the extracellular activity of over a hundred single neurons in both anaesthetized and awake animals. This paradigm, known as multielectrode recordings, is changing the face of systems neuroscience by allowing, for the first time, the visualization of the function of entire neural circuits at work. Current methods of multielectrode recording employ state of the art technologies; two potential new avenues of research will likely emerge from the further development of these experimental paradigms.
Brain atlases and associated databases have great potential as gateways for navigating, accessing, and visualizing a wide range of neuroscientific data. Recent progress towards realizing this potential includes the establishment of probabilistic atlases, surface-based atlases and associated databases, combined with improvements in visualization capabilities and internet access.
To illuminate the function of the thousands of genes that make up the complexity of the nervous system, it is critical to be able to introduce and express DNA in neurons. Over the past two decades, many gene transfer methods have been developed, including viral vectors, liposomes and electroporation. Although the perfect gene transfer technique for every application has not yet been developed, recent technical advances have facilitated the ease of neuronal gene transfer and have increased the accessibility of these techniques to all laboratories. In order to select a transfection method for any particular experiment, the specific advantages and disadvantages of each technique must be considered.
Genomic technologies such as DNA microarrays have been used to study biological processes involved in various normal and disease states; in addition, parallel transcriptional profiling methods hold a great deal of promise for the neurosciences. However, such experiments are technically more demanding and there are unique methodological difficulties for their use in the context of neurobiology and the study of central nervous system disorders.
Lipid rafts are specialized, liquid-ordered subdomains of the plasma membrane. Through their ability to promote specific compartmentalization of lipids and membrane proteins, lipid rafts have emerged as membrane platforms specialized for signal transduction. In recent years, signaling by neurotrophic factors and their receptors has been shown to depend upon the integrity and function of lipid rafts and associated components. It has also been shown that these microdomains play critical roles in selective axon-dendritic sorting and the proteolytic processing of several neurotrophic ligands and receptors in neuronal cells. The available evidence supports an important role for lipid rafts in the initiation, propagation and maintenance of signal transduction events triggered by different neurotrophic factors and their receptors in the nervous system.
Neuronal morphological differentiation is regulated by numerous polypeptide growth factors (neurotrophic factors). Recently, significant progress has been achieved in clarifying the roles of neurotrophins as well as glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor family members in peripheral axon elongation during development. Additionally, advances have been made in defining the signal transduction mechanisms employed by these factors in mediating axon morphological responses. Several studies addressed the role of neurotrophic factors in regenerative axon growth and suggest that signaling mechanisms in addition to those triggered by receptor tyrosine kinases may be required for successful peripheral nervous system regeneration. Finally, recent investigations demonstrate that neurotrophic factors can enhance axon growth after spinal cord injuries.


There are three subtypes of alpha2 adrenoceptor, i.e., alpha2A, alpha2B, and alpha2C, mediating the specific effect of epinephrine and norepinephrine in various tissues by means of G protein-coupled signal transduction pathways. In an attempt to delineate the regulatory mechanism of the alpha2B receptor subtype (encoded by subtype gene Adra2b) expression in the central nervous system (CNS), we have established transgenic (Tg) mice lines in which the transgene (NN-lacZ) was composed of the promoter region of Adra2b (NcoI fragment, 4.7 kb immediately upstream from receptor coding region) and a reporter gene lacZ (encoding beta-galactosidase). The selective expression of alpha2B in brain as indexed by beta-galactosidase, under the direction of this promoter region, may be traced in situ by using X-gal staining. The expression pattern of Adra2b-NN-lacZ in CNS of Tg mice during development was examined. The temporal course of examination was from gestation day 9.5 (E9.5) to postnatal day 28 (P28). Significant X-gal staining was detected in the dorsal root ganglion and cranial nerves V and VII at E12.5. By E18.5, expression was noted in the cerebral cortex, anterior olfactory nucleus, hypothalamus, brainstem, and cerebellar Purkinje cells, among others, and persisted through postnatal development. Adra2b-NN-directed reporter expression was detected in the hippocampal dentate gyrus first at P4. The temporal course of expression up to P28 in this area is in accordance with the developmental profiles of granule neurons of dentate gyrus. From P7 on, transgene expression was detected in additional brain areas, including the septum and thalamus. The expression correlates well with the noradrenergic innervations as evidenced by colocalization by using tyrosine hydroxylase or dopamine-beta-hydroxylase immunocytochemistry.
One commonly observed neuroanatomical abnormality in adults with Williams syndrome is an enlarged cerebellum relative to a small cerebrum. Our study is the first to examine neuroanatomy in young children with Williams syndrome. Clinical brain MRI was examined in nine young children with Williams syndrome (mean age 21 months, range 7 to 43 months) relative to nine age- and sex-matched normally developing control children (mean age 29 months, range 20 to 42 months), and two children with undiagnosed developmental disorders (6 and 41 months). Two neuroradiologists who were blinded to participant classification, hypotheses, and regions of interest for the study, sorted the brain scans into two groups on the basis of six neuroanatomical criteria. The raters placed more of the MR scans from children with Williams syndrome into a separate group when they analyzed features of the cerebellum, but not when they analyzed other brain regions. Based on their written comments, the raters focused on the large size of the cerebellum in the children with Williams syndrome. The results lead us to suggest that abnormal cerebellar enlargement is evident in those with Williams syndrome at an early age. Our results are discussed relative to the cognitive delays observed in Williams syndrome versus other disorders such as autism, leading us to suggest that the cerebellum may play a role in cognition.
SPECT can be used to image regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF) and has been shown to help localize the seizure focus in partial epilepsies as part of the presurgical evaluation. Few studies have explored the possible relation between preoperative SPECT and underlying pathology, or any relation to postsurgical outcome. In this study preoperative ictal and interictal rCBF in relation to the histopathological diagnosis and outcome in a series of 35 children (24 females, 11 males; mean age 9.6 years, age range 11 months to 18 years) who had undergone resective surgery for epilepsy were retrospectively evaluated. A correlation between ictal hyperperfusion and the underlying responsible pathology was shown, with a consistent ictal increase in perfusion in developmental pathologies and Rasmussen's encephalitis, and consistent interictal hypoperfusion in hippocampal sclerosis (HS). No rCBF study parameter appeared to relate to outcome but in the group with HS the best outcome was seen in those with localizing ictal rCBF. The varied group of pathologies from hemispherectomy had excellent outcome but the SPECT findings had little to contribute over the abnormalities detected on MRI. In conclusion, rCBF studies remain a useful presurgical investigation in children with partial epilepsy, especially where HS, cortical dysplasia, or inflammatory disease are the underlying pathology. However, rCBF studies add little to the investigation of children with seizures secondary to benign tumours or cerebral infarcts, or where hemispherectomy is the likely preferred surgical option.
Stem cells and neuroblasts derived from mouse embryos undergo repeated asymmetric cell divisions, generating neural lineage trees similar to those of invertebrates. In Drosophila, unequal distribution of Numb protein during mitosis produces asymmetric cell divisions and consequently diverse neural cell fates. We investigated whether a mouse homologue m-numb had a similar role during mouse cortical development. Progenitor cells isolated from the embryonic mouse cortex were followed as they underwent their next cell division in vitro. Numb distribution was predominantly asymmetric during asymmetric cell divisions yielding a beta-tubulin III(-) progenitor and a beta-tubulin III(+) neuronal cell (P/N divisions) and predominantly symmetric during divisions producing two neurons (N/N divisions). Cells from the numb knockout mouse underwent significantly fewer asymmetric P/N divisions compared to wild type, indicating a causal role for Numb. When progenitor cells derived from early (E10) cortex undergo P/N divisions, both daughters express the progenitor marker Nestin, indicating their immature state, and Numb segregates into the P or N daughter with similar frequency. In contrast, when progenitor cells derived from later E13 cortex (during active neurogenesis in vivo) undergo P/N divisions they produce a Nestin(+) progenitor and a Nestin(-) neuronal daughter, and Numb segregates preferentially into the neuronal daughter. Thus during mouse cortical neurogenesis, as in Drosophila neurogenesis, asymmetric segregation of Numb could inhibit Notch activity in one daughter to induce neuronal differentiation. At terminal divisions generating two neurons, Numb was symmetrically distributed in approximately 80% of pairs and asymmetrically in 20%. We found a significant association between Numb distribution and morphology: most sisters of neuron pairs with symmetric Numb were similar and most with asymmetric Numb were different. Developing cortical neurons with Numb had longer processes than those without. Numb is expressed by neuroblasts and stem cells and can be asymmetrically segregated by both. These data indicate Numb has an important role in generating asymmetric cell divisions and diverse cell fates during mouse cortical development.
The sympathoadrenal (SA) cell lineage is a derivative of the neural crest (NC), which gives rise to sympathetic neurons and neuroendocrine chromaffin cells. Signals that are important for specification of these two types of cells are largely unknown. MASH1 plays an important role for neuronal as well as catecholaminergic differentiation. Mash1 knockout mice display severe deficits in sympathetic ganglia, yet their adrenal medulla has been reported to be largely normal suggesting that MASH1 is essential for neuronal but not for neuroendocrine differentiation. We show now that MASH1 function is necessary for the development of the vast majority of chromaffin cells. Most adrenal medullary cells in Mash1(-/-) mice identified by Phox2b immunoreactivity, lack the catecholaminergic marker tyrosine hydroxylase. Mash1 mutant and wild-type mice have almost identical numbers of Phox2b-positive cells in their adrenal glands at embryonic day (E) 13.5; however, only one-third of the Phox2b-positive adrenal cell population seen in Mash1(+/+) mice is maintained in Mash1(-/-) mice at birth. Similar to Phox2b, cells expressing Phox2a and Hand2 (dHand) clearly outnumber TH-positive cells. Most cells in the adrenal medulla of Mash1(-/-) mice do not contain chromaffin granules, display a very immature, neuroblast-like phenotype, and, unlike wild-type adrenal chromaffin cells, show prolonged expression of neurofilament and Ret comparable with that observed in wild-type sympathetic ganglia. However, few chromaffin cells in Mash1(-/-) mice become PNMT positive and downregulate neurofilament and Ret expression. Together, these findings suggest that the development of chromaffin cells does depend on MASH1 function not only for catecholaminergic differentiation but also for general chromaffin cell differentiation.
Ulcers and erosions of the corneal epithelium, as well as delays in resurfacing of the cornea after wounding, are major causes of ocular morbidity and visual loss in diabetes. To study whether intervention by the opioid antagonist naltrexone (NTX; 30 mg/kg, twice daily) can restore reepithelialization in diabetic cornea, we induced diabetes in rats by intravenous injection of 65 mg/kg streptozotocin. After confirmation of diabetes, 5-mm-diameter epithelial defects that did not include the limbus were created by mechanical scraping of the cornea. At 4 and 8 weeks, corneal reepithelialization was markedly subnormal, with delays ranging from 11% to 17-fold in the diabetic animals compared with control counterparts. Rats that were diabetic for 8 weeks also had a significant decrease in the incidence of complete wound closure. At 4 and 8 weeks, diabetic animals that were receiving NTX had an acceleration in reepithelialization compared with diabetic animals that were receiving vehicle and even surpassed controls. DNA synthesis in the corneal epithelium of diabetic rats was decreased up to 90% of control levels, and NTX exposure of diabetic subjects elevated the labeling index by up to eightfold from diabetic animals that were receiving vehicle. Opioid growth factor and opioid growth factor receptor distribution were comparable in diabetic and control animals. These results indicate a delay in reepithelialization that is dependent on the duration of diabetes and that intervention of endogenous opioid-receptor interfacing with an opioid antagonist can facilitate the process of wound healing.

The central issue facing the dyslexia community, and the underlying theme of Nicolson's 'The Dyslexia Ecosystem' (Nicolson, 2002, Dyslexia, 8, 55-66), is how we can best translate what we know about this particular developmental disorder into practice to give each child the greatest opportunity of acquiring the enabling skill of literacy. To achieve this, and notwithstanding Nicolson's caveat on this point, we have to consider how we can best move from our sphere of expertise to a greater sphere of influence, both as individuals and as a community of research practitioners. In our response, we first consider aspects of Nicolson's general analysis of 'The Dyslexia Ecosystem' and then examine some of the specific objectives that have been proposed.
Three hundred and fifty randomly selected primary school children completed a psychometric and psychophysical test battery to ascertain relationships between reading ability and sensitivity to dynamic visual and auditory stimuli. The first analysis examined whether sensitivity to visual coherent motion and auditory frequency resolution differed between groups of children with different literacy and cognitive skills. For both tasks, a main effect of literacy group was found in the absence of a main effect for intelligence or an interaction between these factors. To assess the potential confounding effects of attention, a second analysis of the frequency discrimination data was conducted with performance on catch trials entered as a covariate. Significant effects for both the covariate and literacy skill was found, but again there was no main effect of intelligence, nor was there an interaction between intelligence and literacy skill. Regression analyses were conducted to determine the magnitude of the relationship between sensory and literacy skills in the entire sample. Both visual motion sensitivity and auditory sensitivity to frequency differences were robust predictors of children's literacy skills and their orthographic and phonological skills.
Diagnostic tests of hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenocortical function in psychiatric illness largely report the interaction of hypothalamic secretagogues with glucocorticoids at the pituitary level. This study investigated whether the efficiency of glucocorticoid inhibition is subject to modulation by intracellular processes that enhance cAMP accumulation and/or facilitate membrane depolarization. The secretion of ACTH induced by corticotropin-releasing factor (CRF; 0.1 nM) in primary cultures of rat anterior pituitary cells was markedly inhibited upon a 2-h exposure to 100 nM corticosterone. Arginine vasopressin (2 nM) enhanced the cAMP as well as the ACTH responses to CRF and reduced the efficiency of glucocorticoid inhibition of ACTH release. The action of arginine vasopressin was mimicked by rolipram, an inhibitor of cyclic nucleotide phosphodiesterase type 4. Application of the broad specificity K(+) channel blockers clofilium and astemizole produced minor or no significant enhancement of CRF-induced ACTH release, respectively, but opposed the inhibitory effect of corticosterone. Specific blockers of HERG, KCNQ, and Isk channels had no effect on ACTH release under any condition examined. In summary, these data reveal multiple sites of posttranslational modulation of adrenal corticosteroid action at the level of the pituitary gland, which appear important for the outcome of diagnostic tests of hypothalamic-pituitary- adrenocortical function.
The differential exposure of males and females to testosterone (T) and its metabolite estradiol (E) contributes to the development of sex differences in the brain. However, the mechanisms by which T and E permanently alter neural development remain virtually unknown. Two regions of the rat preoptic area, the anteroventral periventricular nucleus (AVPv) and the medial preoptic nucleus (MPN), are sexually dimorphic and serve as models for studying the hormonal mechanisms of sexual differentiation. Around birth, these regions express dramatically higher levels of progesterone receptor immunoreactivity (PRir) in males than they do in females. The present study examined the possibility that sexually dimorphic induction of PR expression in these two regions constitutes a potential mechanism of E-mediated sexual differentiation. Prenatal exposure to either T propionate or the synthetic estrogen, diethylstilbestrol, but not dihydrotestosterone propionate, significantly increased PRir levels in the MPN and AVPv of fetal females compared with controls. Prenatal exposure to the aromatase inhibitor, 1,4,6-androstatriene-3,17-dione, significantly reduced PRir in the MPN and AVPv of fetal males, whereas the androgen receptor antagonist flutamide had no effect. This suggests that aromatization of T into E is crucial for the sex difference in PR expression in the MPN and AVPv during development.


Sexual dysfunction is underreported in persons with epilepsy. The evaluation of sexual physiology in small samples of epilepsy patients shows abnormal sexual functioning, and points to low free testosterone levels as a contributing factor. Abnormal sexual physiology in epilepsy patients may be due to antiseizure medication-related altered testosterone metabolism and abnormal central gonadotropin secretion due to epileptic physiology in the brain. More information exists on the sexual side effects of &quot;classic&quot; antiseizure medications than the &quot;new generation&quot; of antiseizure medications; barbiturates appear to have the greatest risk. More active surveying for sexual dysfunction should be undertaken in epilepsy clinics; a simple, self-reported scale of sexual functioning is available. Testosterone replacement for men, dehydroepiandrosterone for women, and sildenafil for restoring sexual performance are appropriate.
Growing evidence indicates that the effects of antiepileptic drugs on childhood epilepsies are partly linked to the specific type of epilepsy or epilepsy syndrome. Most (but not all) types of epilepsy can be classified into categories that are conceptually meaningful. It is likewise logical to set treatment targets and to estimate the risks according to the main syndromic groups, as they share common, electroclinical presentations and long-term prognosis. Treatment should then be adjusted to each patient's clinical characteristics. Treatment should be started soon, whenever there is indication that delay would harm the child. However, if seizures are not disabling, treatment may be delayed, in order to acquire more knowledge about the spontaneous expression of the disorder and the plan thoughtfully explained to the parents. In children presenting with partial symptomatic or cryptogenic epilepsy, it is important to assess the patient's response to several different drugs. However, in patients regarded as having refractory epilepsy, possibilities for a surgical solution must be evaluated early in the course of the disease. In severe epileptic encephalopathies, complete seizure control is impossible and, ideally, treatment should provide as much integration and autonomy, with alleviation of frequent seizures. Again, this should be carefully explained to the parents. In children with severe epileptiform EEG abnormalities coexisting with brain dysfunction (diffuse or specific), the extent of EEG-related neurological dysfunction should be determined, and vigorous treatment should be started to abate its effects. Finally, seizures could be worsened by inappropriate drugs, paradoxical reaction or intoxication. Severe childhood epilepsies are particularly at risk and mild idiopathic epilepsies may be transformed into severe disorders, priming a vicious circle of heavy treatment, whereby the original disorder is no longer recognizable.
The calcium-sensing receptor (CaR) belongs to family C of the G-protein coupled receptor superfamily. The receptor is believed to exist as a homodimer due to covalent and non-covalent interactions between the two amino terminal domains (ATDs). It is well established that agonist binding to family C receptors takes place at the ATD and that this causes the ATD dimer to twist. However, very little is known about the translation of the ATD dimer twist into G-protein coupling to the 7 transmembrane moieties (7TMs) of these receptor dimers. In this study we have attempted to delineate the agonist-induced intermolecular movements in the CaR homodimer using the new bioluminescence resonance energy transfer technique, BRET2, which is based on the transference of energy from Renilla luciferase (Rluc) to the green fluorescent protein mutant GFP2. We tagged CaR with Rluc and GFP2 at different intracellular locations. Stable and highly receptor-specific BRET signals were obtained in tsA cells transfected with Rluc- and GFP2-tagged CaRs under basal conditions, indicating that CaR is constitutively dimerized. However, the signals were not enhanced by the presence of agonist. These results could indicate that at least parts of the two 7TMs of the CaR homodimer are in close proximity in the inactivated state of the receptor and do not move much relative to one another upon agonist activation. However, we cannot exclude the possibility that the BRET technology is unable to register putative conformational changes in the CaR homodimer induced by agonist binding because of the bulk sizes of the Rluc and GFP2 molecules.
In previous studies, fully functional rod and long-wavelength-sensitive (LWS) cone photopigments have been isolated from the eye of the subterranean blind mole rat (Spalax ehrenbergi superspecies). Spalax possesses subcutaneous atrophied eyes and lacks any ability to respond to visual images. By contrast this animal retains the ability to entrain circadian rhythms of locomotor behaviour to environmental light cues. As this is the only known function of the eye, the rod and LWS photopigments are thought to mediate this response. Most mammals are dichromats possessing, in addition to a single rod photopigment, two classes of cone photopigment, LWS and ultraviolet-sensitive/violet-sensitive (UVS/VS) with differing spectral sensitivities which mediate colour vision. In this paper we explore whether Spalax is a dichromat and has the potential to use colour discrimination for photoentrainment. Using immunocytochemistry and molecular approaches we demonstrate that Spalax is a LWS monochromat. Spalax lacks a functional UVS/VS cone photopigment due to the accumulation of several deleterious mutational changes that have rendered the gene nonfunctional. Using phylogenetic analysis we show that the loss of this class of photoreceptor is likely to have arisen from the visual ecology of this species, and is not an artefact of having an ancestor which lacked a functional UVS/VS cone photopigment. We conclude that colour discrimination is not a prerequisite for photoentrainment in this species.
Activated glial cells crucially contribute to brain inflammatory responses. Interleukin-10 (IL-10) is an important modulator of glial cell responses in the brain. In the present study we describe the expression of IL-10 and the IL-10 receptor (IL-10R1) in primary cocultures of rat microglial and astroglial cells. Using quantitative RT-PCR and ELISA, we show that IL-10 mRNA expression and subsequent IL-10 secretion is time-dependently induced by lipopolysaccharide (LPS). IL-10R1, however, is constitutively expressed in glial cell cocultures, as shown by RT-PCR and immunocytochemistry. Radioligand binding studies using 125I-IL-10 reveal that rat glial cells express a single binding site with an apparent affinity of approximately 600 pm for human IL-10. Observations in enriched cultures of either microglial or astroglial cells indicate that both cell types express IL-10 mRNA and are capable of secreting IL-10. Both cell types also express IL-10R1 mRNA and protein. However, in glial cell cocultures immunoreactive IL-10R1 protein is predominantly observed in astrocytes, suggesting that microglial expression of IL-10R1 in cocultures is suppressed by astrocytes. In addition, exogenous IL-10 is highly potent in down-regulating LPS-induced IL-1beta and IL-10 mRNA, and, at a higher dose, IL-10R1 mRNA in untreated and LPS-treated cultures, suggesting that IL-10 autoregulates its expression and inhibits that of IL-1beta at the transcriptional level. Together the findings support the concept that IL-10, produced by activated microglial and astroglial cells, modulates glia-mediated inflammatory responses through high-affinity IL-10 receptors via paracrine and autocrine interactions.
Recent evidence that the cerebellum and the basal ganglia are activated during the performance of cognitive and attention tasks challenges the prevailing view of their primary function in motor control. The specific roles of the basal ganglia and the cerebellum in cognition, however, have been difficult to identify. At least three functional hypotheses regarding their roles have been proposed. The first hypothesis suggests that their main function is to switch attentional set. The second hypothesis states that they provide error signals regarding stimuli or rewards. The third hypothesis is that they operate as an internal timing system, providing a precise representation of temporal information. Using functional magnetic resonance imaging, we tested these three hypotheses using a task-switching experiment with a 2 x 2 factorial design varying timing (random relative to fixed) and task order (unpredictable relative to predictable). This design allowed us to test whether switching between tasks, timing irregularity and/or task order unpredictability activate the basal ganglia and/or the cerebellum. We show that the cerebellum is primarily activated with timing irregularity while the anterior striatum is activated with task order unpredictability, supporting their distinctive roles in two forms of readjustment. Task order unpredictability alone, independent of reward delivery, is sufficient to induce striatal activation. In addition, activation of the cerebellum and basal ganglia were not specific to switching attention because these regions were both activated during switching between tasks and during the simultaneous maintenance of two tasks without switching between them.
The Eph family of receptors and ligands has been implicated in a variety of developmental processes, including the provision of inhibitory guidance cues to developing nerve fibers. A unique property of the B class of receptors is that they are able to phosphorylate ephrin-B ligands, allowing for bi-directional, or reverse signalling. While most of the studies to date have focused on central nerve fibers, little is known about the role of Eph molecules in guiding nerve fibers of the peripheral nervous system. In the present study, ephrin-B1 was found to be highly expressed on developing peripheral nerve fibers including auditory and vestibular (statoacoustic) and dorsal root ganglion nerve fibers. In vitro assays revealed that EphB-Fc receptors inhibited further growth of statoacoustic nerve fibers. In contrast, EphA7-Fc and ephrin-B2-Fc did not prevent further growth of SAG. Together, these results suggest a role for EphB receptors in providing guidance signals to ephrin-B1-positive SAG nerve fibers.
A large proportion of cells that proliferate in the adult dentate gyrus under normal conditions or in response to brain insults exhibit only short-term survival. Here, we sought to determine which cell death pathways are involved in the degeneration of newly formed neurons in the rat dentate gyrus following 2 h of electrically induced status epilepticus. We investigated the role of three families of cysteine proteases, caspases, calpains, and cathepsins, which can all participate in apoptotic cell death. Status epilepticus increased the number of bromodeoxyuridine (BrdU)-positive proliferated cells in the subgranular zone of the dentate gyrus. At the time of maximum cell proliferation, immunohistochemical analyses revealed protein expression of active caspase-cleaved poly (ADP-ribose) polymerase (PARP) in approximately 66% of the BrdU-positive cells, while none of them expressed cathepsin B or the 150-kDa calpain-produced fodrin breakdown product. To evaluate the importance of cysteine proteases in regulating survival of the newly formed neurons, we administered intracerebroventricular infusions of a caspase inhibitor cocktail (zVAD-fmk, zDEVD-fmk and zLEHD-fmk) over a 2-week period, sufficient to allow for neuronal differentiation, starting 1 week after the epileptic insult. Increased numbers of cells double-labelled with BrdU and neuron-specific nuclear protein (NeuN) marker were detected in the subgranular zone and granule cell layer of the caspase inhibitor-treated rats. Our data indicate that caspase-mediated cell death pathways are active in progenitor cell progeny generated by status epilepticus and compromise survival during neuronal differentiation.


Quantification of thermal thresholds is a useful method to assess and follow up the function of afferent small A-delta and C-fibres in patients with nerve dysfunctions. The object of this study was to estimate thermal test-retest repeatability in 19 patients with unilateral sciatica (14 L5 and 5 S1) in affected and non-affected dermatomes on the symptomatic (S) and non-symptomatic (NS) sides. Detection thresholds were measured at six sites, two within each of the L4, L5 and S1 dermatomes. The test was repeated after 1-2 h and the coefficient of repeatability (CR=2SD of test-retest differences) was calculated. Warm threshold repeatability did not differ between S and NS sides, but cold threshold CR was higher in the affected dermatome on the foot as compared to the contralateral dermatome ( P=0.04). Warm thresholds were more variable (CR=5 degrees C and 4.7 degrees C on S and NS sides) than cold thresholds (CR=2.2 degrees C and 2.1 degrees C on the S and NS sides). The expected range of variation for the second measurement was between 51% and 200% for warm and between 45% and 230% for cold thresholds. The sensitivity was better on the foot than the lateral calf (5 of 14 vs 1 of 14 abnormal thresholds) in the subgroup with L5 sciatica. We conclude that dermatomal thermotesting has acceptable repeatability, particularly at proximal lower extremity sites. The test may be useful in longitudinal investigations of patients with sciatica, e.g. in treatment follow-up studies.
After sustained stepping in-place on a rotating disc, healthy subjects will inadvertently turn in circles when asked to step in-place on a stationary surface with eyes closed. We asked whether the cerebellum is important for this adaptive phenomenon, called podokinetic after-rotation (PKAR). Subjects with cerebellar degeneration and age-matched control subjects performed 15 min of stepping in-place with eyes open on a rotating disc, then 30 min of attempting to step in-place with eyes closed on a stationary surface. Rotational velocity of PKAR was measured during this 30-min period. All control subjects demonstrated PKAR; average initial rotational velocity for control subjects was 16.4+/-3.5 degrees /s. Five of the eight cerebellar subjects demonstrated impaired PK adaptation, defined as PKAR with an initial velocity more than two standard deviations below the control mean initial velocity. Average initial rotational velocity for cerebellar subjects was 7.8+/-0.2 degrees /s. Impaired PK adaptation was not associated with impaired time constants of decay and was not correlated with variability of PKAR velocity. Our results suggest that the cerebellum is important for regulation of the amplitude of PK adaptation and that reduced PKAR amplitude is not likely the result of dyscoordination or variability of movement in the subjects tested.
To determine how sad affect (or brief sad mood) interacts with paralinguistic aspects of speech, we investigated the effect of a happy or sad mood induction on speech production in 49 healthy volunteers. Several speech parameters measuring speech rate, loudness and pitch were examined before and after a standardized mood-induction procedure that involved viewing facial expressions. Speech samples were collected during the self-initiated reading of emotionally &quot;neutral&quot; sentences; there was no explicit demand to produce mood-congruent speech. Results indicated that, after the mood induction, the speech of participants in the sad group was slower, quieter and more monotonous than the speech of participants in the happy group. This speech paradigm provides a model for studying how changes in mood states interact with the motor control of speech.
Subjects' awareness of motor corrections was investigated in a double-step pointing task. An unpredictable lateral target displacement of 10 cm, either left or right, during an ongoing reaching movement led to corrections of the trajectory. Subjects were required either to follow the target (pointing) or move in the opposite direction (anti-pointing). The target jump elicited rapid corrections to the movement in the direction of the target shift. These corrections were in some sense involuntary as they sometimes occurred in anti-point trials, when subjects were instructed to correct in the opposite direction to the target jump. The instructed correction away from the target in anti-point trials occurred later than the correction towards the target in standard pointing. Subjects were also asked to report their awareness of the motor correction they had just made by immediately reproducing each movement. In normal pointing, subjects showed reduced and delayed awareness, suggesting that the corrections were at least partly automatic. Anti-pointing corrections did not show this dissociation between performance and awareness. We suggest that anti-point corrections, but not standard pointing corrections, involve an additional supervisory system. This system is characterised by its slow operation and its access to conscious awareness.
Previous studies established that vestibular reflexes can have two adapted states (e.g., gain) simultaneously, and that a context cue (e.g., vertical eye position) can switch between the two states. The present study examined this phenomenon of context-specific adaptationfor horizontal saccades, using a variety of contexts. Our overall goal was to assess the efficacy of different context cues in switching between adapted states. A standard double-step paradigm was used to adapt saccade gain. In each experiment, we asked for a simultaneous gain decrease in one context and gain increase in another context, and then determined if a change in the context would invoke switching between the adapted states. Horizontal eye position worked well as a context cue: saccades with the eyes deviated to the right could be made to have higher gains while saccades with the eyes deviated to the left could be made to have lower gains. Vertical eye position was less effective. This suggests that the more closely related a context cue is to the response being adapted, the more effective it is. Roll tilt of the head, and upright versus supine orientations, were somewhat effective in context switching; these paradigms contain orientation of gravity with respect to the head as part of the context.
Central respiratory drive potentials (CRDPs) were observed in intracellular recordings from hindlimb motoneurones of anaesthetized, paralysed, ovariohysterectomized female cats, artificially ventilated so as to have a strong respiratory drive under hyperoxic hypercapnea. The animals comprised two groups: three animals treated for 7 days with oestradiol benzoate (oestrous), and three untreated (non-oestrous). Several features of the CRDPs suggested the involvement of voltage-sensitive channels, including variability in the CRDP amplitude and potentiation of the CRDP by depolarizing currents. Clear plateau potentials, related to or triggered by depolarizing phases of the CRDPs, occurred in six motoneurones, three in response to depolarizing currents, three spontaneously. This is the first report of plateau potentials in mammalian motoneurones under anaesthesia. The mechanisms accessed here by the respiratory inputs are deduced to be particularly potent, perhaps because of a distal dendritic location. Plateau-like effects were more common in the oestrous animals, which suggests a specific role for the plateau potentials in the production of the stereotyped movements of female receptive behaviour.
Previous studies established that vestibular and oculomotor behaviors can have two adapted states (e.g., gain) simultaneously, and that a context cue (e.g., vertical eye position) can switch between the two states. The present study examined this phenomenon of context-specific adaptation for the oculomotor response to interaural translation (which we term &quot;linear vestibulo-ocular reflex&quot; or LVOR even though it may have extravestibular components). Subjects sat upright on a linear sled and were translated at 0.7 Hz and 0.3 gpeak acceleration while a visual-vestibular mismatch paradigm was used to adaptively increase (x2) or decrease (x0) the gain of the LVOR. In each experimental session, gain increase was asked for in one context, and gain decrease in another context. Testing in darkness with steps and sines before and after adaptation, in each context, assessed the extent to which the context itself could recall the gain state that was imposed in that context during adaptation. Two different contexts were used: head pitch (26 degrees forward and backward) and head roll (26 degrees or 45 degrees, right and left). Head roll tilt worked well as a context cue: with the head rolled to the right the LVOR could be made to have a higher gain than with the head rolled to the left. Head pitch tilt was less effective as a context cue. This suggests that the more closely related a context cue is to the response being adapted, the more effective it is.
Whereas the human right hemisphere is active during execution of contralateral hand movements, the left hemisphere is engaged for both contra- and ipsilateral movements, at least for right-handed subjects. Whether this asymmetry is also found during motor learning remains unknown. Implicit sequence learning by the nondominant left hand was examined with the serial reaction time (SRT) task during functional brain imaging. As learning progressed, increases in brain activity were observed in left lateral premotor cortex (PMC) and bilaterally in supplementary motor areas (SMA), with the increase significantly greater in the left hemisphere. The left SMA site was similar to one previously identified with right-hand learning, suggesting that this region is critical for representing a sequence independent of effector. Learning with the left hand also recruited a widespread set of temporal and frontal regions, suggesting that motor skill learning with the nondominant hand develops within both cognitive and motor-related functional networks. After skill acquisition, subjects performed the SRT task with their right hands, and sequence transfer was tested with the original and a mirror-ordered sequence. With the original sequence, the stimulus sequence and series of response locations remained unchanged, but the finger movements were different. With the mirror-ordered sequence, the response sequence involved finger movements homologous to those used during training. Performance of the original and mirror sequence by the right hand was significantly better than with random stimuli. Mirror transformation of the sequence by the right hand was associated with a marked increase in regional activity in the left motor cortex, consistent with a role for sequential transformation at this level of the motor output pathway.
This study addressed the anticonvulsant effects of phenobarbital, valproate, and ethosuximide in the amygdala of kindled guinea pigs to further validate this model for the screening of anticonvulsant drugs. Behavioral toxic effects were assessed at 30 min following drug administration using quantitative locomotor tests, as well as scores on a sedation and muscle relaxation rating index. The anticonvulsant efficacy of the drugs were evaluated from measurements of afterdischarge threshold (ADT), afterdischarge duration (ADD), and behavioral seizure severity (SS) during early and late phases of kindling acquisition, and in kindled guinea pigs. ADD and SS were also measured in response to both threshold and suprathreshold kindling stimulation. All drugs exerted slight to moderate sedative effects in guinea pigs on both the behavioral tests and rating index. We found that phenobarbital exhibited effective anticonvulsant properties in guinea pigs by consistently reducing ADD and SS in response to both threshold and suprathreshold kindling stimulation. Valproate exhibited effective anticonvulsant properties at threshold stimulation and less effective properties at suprathreshold stimulation. Lastly, we found that ethosuximide lacked effective anticonvulsant action at either threshold or suprathreshold kindling stimulation. Our results indicate that the guinea pig kindling model correctly predicted the actions of phenobarbital, valproate, and ethosuximide in the treatment of partial seizures. Guinea pig amygdala kindling appears to serve as a useful and valid model for partial epilepsy.
Heterogeneous ribonucleoprotein (hnRNP) A2 is a trans-acting factor that mediates intracellular trafficking of specific RNAs containing the A2 response element. HnRNP A2 is localized in the nucleus and also in granules in the perikaryon and processes in oligodendrocytes. The distribution of the cytoplasmic pool of hnRNP A2 is microtubule-dependent. HnRNP A2 is composed of two sequential RNA binding domains (RBDI and RBDII), a glycine-rich domain, and a nuclear import domain (M9). In order to analyze the roles of individual domains in determining the intracellular distribution of hnRNP A2, chimeric mRNAs encoding various domains fused with green fluorescent protein (GFP) were injected into oligodendrocytes, and the subcellular distribution of the GFP hybrid proteins was analyzed by fluorescence microscopy. Chimeric GFP proteins containing the M9 domain were localized to the nucleus. In the absence of the M9 domain, proteins containing the RBDII domain were preferentially concentrated in the distal processes of the cells. Localization of RBDII-containing proteins in the periphery was dependent on the presence of intact microtubules. These data suggest that the RBDII domain of hnRNP A2 targets hnRNP A2 to the periphery of the cell in a microtubule-dependent manner.
The deposition of amyloid beta peptides (Abeta) and cholinergic dysfunction are two characteristic features of Alzheimer's disease. Several studies have suggested that a compromised cholinergic transmission can increase the amount of amyloid precursor protein (APP) in the denervated cortex (or hippocampus); however, whether this will increase Abeta production is unknown. To investigate the relation between cholinergic neurotransmission and APP metabolism, and the possible role of cholinergic dysfunction in the development of amyloid neuropathology, we lesioned the fimbria-fornix pathway in APP+PS1 double transgenic mice, at 5 and 7 months of age. Three months and 11 months postlesion, the mice were sacrificed for biochemical and histopathological analyses. The fimbria-fornix transection resulted in a substantial depletion of cholinergic markers in the hippocampus at both time points. Three months postlesion, hippocampal APP and Abeta levels were not significantly changed. At 11 months postlesion, the fimbria-fornix lesion did not result in an alteration in either the hippocampal Abeta levels or the extent of Abeta deposition, as assessed by amyloid plaque counts and image analysis of Abeta load in the 18-month-old APP+PS1 mice. Our findings indicate that APP metabolism in mice may be dissociated from cholinergic neurotransmission rather than related as previously suggested in other mammalian species.
The polyamines spermidine (SPD) and spermine (SPM) are implicated in nerve cell degeneration and regeneration. Over 70% of circulating polyamines are associated with red blood cells (RBC). Against this background we have analysed RBC polyamines in two neurodegenerative disorders, amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) and Parkinson's disease (PD). Twenty patients with the sporadic form of ALS, 20 patients with PD, and 20 healthy controls were studied. The highest levels of SPD and SPM were found in the PD group where the mean values were 134 and 115%, respectively, above those of the controls. The patients with PD also presented the lowest levels of the SPD precursor, putrescine (PUTR). In the patients suffering from ALS the SPD and SPM mean levels were increased by 46 and 112%, respectively. The RBC SPD/SPM ratio in the patients suffering from PD was significantly elevated in comparison with that of ALS patient group, suggesting a different involvement of the polyamine system in these disorders. It is at present unknown if raised polyamine levels may contribute to induce the degeneration of susceptible neurons or if the increase represents a compensatory protective reaction, or simply an unspecific epiphenomenon.
The effects of sustained (up to 9 months) striatal overexpression of glial cell line derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF) on lesioned nigrostriatal dopamine (DA) neurons was studied using a recombinant lentiviral (rLV) vector to deliver GDNF into the striatum 4 weeks prior to the creation of an intrastriatal 6-hydroxydopamine lesion. The results of the amphetamine-induced rotation suggested an initial partial protection followed by a complete recovery, whereas the spontaneous motor behaviors remained impaired. There was a clear protection of the nigral tyrosine hydroxylase (TH)-positive neurons in the rLV-GDNF group compared to rats injected with the control vector encoding green fluorescent protein (GFP) (70 and 20% of the intact side, respectively). However, the striatal TH+ fiber density was equally reduced (to 20% of the intact side) in both groups. Further morphological analyses indicated that the nigrostriatal projections of the DA neurons were indeed preserved in the GDNF group. The axonal projections were visualized using two independent methods: First, retrograde labeling of the nigral cell bodies by intrastriatal Fluoro-Gold injections showed that the majority of rescued cells in the GDNF group had preserved axonal projections to striatum. Second, injections of a recombinant adeno-associated viral vector expressing GFP into the nigra was used to anterogradely fill the DA neurons and their projections with GFP protein. GFP immunostaining clearly demonstrated that the fibers of the nigral DA cells were preserved along the nigrostriatal pathway and innervated large parts of the striatum, but did not express TH at detectable levels. In addition, fiber sprouting was observed in the globus pallidus, entopeduncular nucleus, and substantia nigra, corresponding to areas where GDNF protein was released. The lack of functional recovery in the spontaneous motor behaviors may, at least in part, be explained by this extensive aberrant fiber sprouting in the downstream striatal target nuclei and/or decreased synthesis of dopamine in the striatum.
Peripheral nerve transection in the rat alters the spinal cord dorsal horn central projections from both small and large DRG neurons. Injured neurons with C-fibers exhibit transganglionic degeneration of their terminations within lamina II of the spinal cord dorsal horn, while peripheral nerve injury of medium to large neurons induces collateral sprouting of myelinated A-fibers from lamina I and III/IV into lamina II in rats, cats, and primates. To date, it is not known what sequelae are responsible for the collateral sprouting of A-fibers after peripheral nerve injury, although target-derived factors are thought to play an important role. To determine whether target-derived factors are necessary for changes in A-fiber laminar terminations in rat spinal cord dorsal horn, we unilaterally transected the sciatic nerve and ensheathed the proximal nerve stump in a silicone cap. Three days before sacrifice of rat, the injured sciatic nerve was injected with cholera toxin beta-subunit conjugated to horseradish peroxidase (betaHRP) that effectively labels both peripheral and central A-fiber axons. The effect of the ligature, axotomy, and silicone cap treatment was evaluated by analyzing the extent of betaHRP-, Substance P-(SP-), and isolectin B4- (IB4-) immunoreactive (ir) fibers in the somatotopically appropriate spinal cord dorsal horn regions. In all animals, 2-5 weeks after nerve transection (treated or otherwise), IB4- and SP-ir is absent from lamina II. Animals without nerve cap treatment exhibited robust fiber sprouting into lamina II at 2 weeks. In sharp contrast, animals treated with silicone caps did not exhibit betaHRP-ir fibers in lamina II at 2 weeks. This observation was extended up to 5 weeks postinjury. These results suggest that axotomy-induced expansion of betaHRP-ir primary afferent central terminations in the spinal cord dorsal horn is dependent on factors produced in the injury site milieu. While our understanding of local repair mechanisms of injured peripheral nerves is incomplete, it is clear that the time-dependent production of growth factors in the nerve injury microenvironment favor nerve fiber outgrowth, both peripherally and centrally.
Oxidative stress is a ubiquitously observed hallmark of neurodegenerative disorders. Neuronal cell dysfunction and cell death due to oxidative stress may causally contribute to the pathogenesis of progressive neurodegenerative disorders, such as Alzheimer's disease and Parkinson's disease, as well as acute syndromes of neurodegeneration, such as ischaemic and haemorrhagic stroke. Neuroprotective antioxidants are considered a promising approach to slowing the progression and limiting the extent of neuronal cell loss in these disorders. The clinical evidence demonstrating that antioxidant compounds can act as protective drugs in neurodegenerative disease, however, is still relatively scarce. In the following review, the available data from clinical, animal and cell biological studies regarding the role of antioxidant neuroprotection in progressive neurodegenerative disease will be summarised, focussing particularly on Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's disease, Huntington's disease and amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. The general complications in developing potent neuroprotective antioxidant drugs directed against these long-term degenerative conditions will also be discussed. The major challenges for drug development are the slow kinetics of disease progression, the unsolved mechanistic questions concerning the final causalities of cell death, the necessity to attain an effective permeation of the blood-brain barrier and the need to reduce the high concentrations currently required to evoke protective effects in cellular and animal model systems. Finally, an outlook as to which direction antioxidant drug development and clinical practice may be leading to in the near future will be provided.
The rate of past and family psychiatric history was ascertained in 254 women diagnosed with postnatal depression. Probands and first-degree relatives were interviewed to establish lifetime and current major psychiatric diagnoses. 78.3% of the women studied had a past and/or family psychiatric history. These data confirm the importance of these variables when screening women who may be at risk for postnatal depression.
Recent neurobiological concepts about sensomotor processes in animals exhibit that voluntary motor behavior is not due primarily to external cues but to internal activation-processes (&quot;initial activity&quot;). Thus questions are raised as to the role of internal &quot;limbic&quot; valuation-processes in relation to contexts of the past. These are not limited to the actual memorial contents but also relate to subliminal aspects of the past. The inclusion of processes of &quot;re-presenting forgetting&quot; means a re-evaluation of autonomy within a neuropsychological theory of freedom. Consequently, subjective freedom may be realized by intrapsychic processes of re-presentation of the past.
Cytokines represent a multi-diverse family of polypeptide regulators; they are relatively low molecular weight (&lt; 30 kDa), pharmacologically active proteins that are secreted by one cell for the purpose of altering either its own functions (autocrine effect) or those of adjacent cells (paracrine effect). Cytokines are small, nonenzymatic glycoproteins whose actions are both diverse and overlapping (specificity/redundancy) and may affect diverse and overlapping target cell populations. In many instances, individual cytokines have multiple biological activities. Different cytokines can also have the same activity, which provides for functional redundancy (network) within the inflammatory and immune systems. As biological cofactors that are released by specific cells, cytokines have specific effects on cell-cell interaction, communication, and behavior of other cells. As a result, it is infrequent that loss or neutralization of one cytokine will markedly interfere with either of these systems. The biological effect of one cytokine is often modified or augmented by another. Because an interdigitating, redundant network of cytokines is involved in the production of most biological effects, both under physiologic and pathologic conditions, it usually requires more than a single defect in the network to alter drastically the outcome of the process. This fact, therefore, may have crucial significance in the development of therapeutic strategies for biopharmacologic intervention in cytokine-mediated inflammatory processes and infections.
In order to fulfill their roles in neuroendocrine regulation, specific hypothalamic neurons are devoted to produce and deliver biologically active peptides to the pituitary gland. The biosynthesis and release of peptides are strictly controlled by afferents to these hypothalamic neurons. Cell-specific expression and biosynthetic regulation largely relies on transcription from the gene promoter for which the 5(')-flanking regions of the peptidergic genes contain essential elements. Cell-specific transcription factors employ these regulatory elements to exert their control over the expression of the peptidergic gene. This article explores the properties of regulatory elements of the major hypothalamic peptides, somatostatin, growth hormone-releasing hormone, gonadotropin-releasing hormone, thyrotropin-releasing hormone, corticotropin-releasing hormone, vasopressin and oxytocin, and the transcription factors acting on them. These transcription factors are often endpoints of signal transduction pathways that can be activated by neurotransmitters or steroid hormones. Others are essential to provide cell-specific expression of the peptidergic gene during development and mature regulation.
The aim of our study was to investigate the efficacy of pramipexole in advanced parkinsonian patients by means of an acute stimulation test. We studied the motor effects of pramipexole in fluctuating parkinsonian patients by comparing the response to acute levodopa with the response to levodopa + pramipexole. The adjunct of pramipexole to levodopa increased the time spent on from 136 +/- 22.3 to 186 +/- 20.6 minutes (p&lt;0.01), while it did not change the latency to on, the magnitude of the motor improvement, or the duration and severity of dyskinesias. The main effect of pramipexole in fluctuating parkinsonian patients is an increased duration of the on phase.
We compared the clinical, psychological and pharmacological characteristics of patients with familial migraine and patients with sporadic migraine. Five hundred and thirty consecutive new patients attending our Headache Center over a two-year period were involved in the study. The patients were divided into two groups: A. Familial migraine (famM)--at least one first-degree relative affected; B. Sporadic migraine (spoM)--no first-degree relative affected. Four hundred and twenty-four patients (80%) fulfilled the criteria for famM and 106 (20%) for spoM. The patients with famM showed a significantly (p&lt;0.01) earlier age at onset of the disease. No significant difference in all the remaining features examined was found. Our data suggest that famM and spoM represent a single disease entity.
The purpose of this study was to validate a functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) paradigm to activate both anterior and posterior language areas while collecting accuracy and reaction time data on subjects' performance. The paradigm was based on alternating graphemic and lexical decision tasks. In line with the classical model of language organisation, based on lesion data, and with the results of previous neuroimaging studies, cortical activation associated with lexical decision-making was strongly lateralised to the left hemisphere and involved a network of regions in the frontal, temporal and parietal lobes. Single subject analysis demonstrated that the activation paradigm we propose is suitable for detecting language processing areas in humans for clinical studies.

Spinocerebellar ataxia, type 2 (SCA2), results from an expansion of a stretch of polyglutamine repeats within the coding sequence of the ataxin-2 gene (ATX2), localized to chromosome 12q23-24. Recent studies have widened the clinical phenotype, notably for individuals with repeats of intermediate size, from 32 to 35 glutamine residues. This narrow range necessitates precise determination of repeat size. Diagnostic laboratories most often perform direct genotyping of ATX2 from polymerase chain-amplified patient DNA with subsequent sizing utilizing slab gel polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis (PAGE) or capillary electrophoresis. Using cloning and sequencing methods, we have constructed a ladder of ATX2 alleles of known size and sequence composition. This freely available size ladder will facilitate future quantification of expansions of the ATX2 locus.
Microglia rapidly respond to CNS injury, yet the mechanisms leading to their activation and inactivation remain poorly defined. In particular, few studies have established how interactions between inflammatory mediators affect the innate immune response of microglia. To begin to establish how microglia integrate signals from multiple inflammatory mediators, we examined the effects of interleukin 1beta (IL-1beta), interleukin 6 (IL-6), tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNFalpha), interferon gamma (IFN-gamma), and transforming growth factor beta1 (TGFbeta1) on both newborn and bulk-isolated adult microglia. To assess the functional state of the cells, we assayed the expression of cyclooxygenase 2 (Cox-2), interleukin 6, and tumor necrosis factor alpha, and two protein tyrosine kinases that have been implicated in microglial responses to activational stimuli, HCK and FAK. These studies demonstrated that IL-1beta, TNFalpha, IL-6, but not IFN-gamma increase the expression of Cox-2, whereas they all increase the expression of HCK and FAK. In these studies, TGFbeta1 either had no effect, or it decreased basal levels of these proteins. TGFbeta1 blocked activation by IL-1beta when given prior to, or simultaneously with, IL-1beta. TGFbeta1 blocked the induction of the tyrosine kinases, Cox-2, and the induction of IL-6 and TNFalpha mRNAs. However, TGFbeta1 was ineffective in antagonizing the induction of Cox-2 by either IL-6 or TNFalpha. We conclude that the TGFbeta receptor signaling cascades intersect with IL-1, but they may not interact with IL-6 or TNFalpha signaling pathways that lead to activation.
Recent advances in understanding oligodendrocyte development have revealed the importance of both extra- and intracellular molecules in regulating the induction, survival, and proliferation of early oligodendrocyte progenitors. The signaling molecule Sonic hedgehog (Shh) is critical for normal development of oligodendrocytes, although the precise influences of Shh on cells of the oligodendrocyte lineage are unclear. The present study shows that Shh increased the number of oligodendrocyte precursors in both pure cultures of oligodendrocyte precursors and mixed cultures from embryonic rat spinal cord. In pure precursor cultures Shh increased cell survival. In mixed cultures, Shh increased both the survival and proliferation of oligodendrocyte precursors in a concentration dependent manner. One intracellular consequence of exposure to Shh is the activation of transcription factors in oligodendrocyte lineage cells, which are critical for oligodendrocyte development, helix-loop-helix (HLH) transcription factors, Olig1 and 2. In many cases, HLH proteins such as Olig1 and Olig2 heterodimerize with other HLH proteins, such as members of the E subfamily, which are critical regulators of cell proliferation and differentiation. Immature (A2B5(+)) and more mature (O4(+)) rat oligodendrocyte precursors in dissociated cell culture expressed Olig1 as well as E proteins, HEB and E2A. Similarly, cells bearing the morphology of oligodendrocyte precursors expressed both Olig1 and HEB or E2A. We propose that E2A and/or HEB, possibly in combination with Olig1 and 2, are critical components of oligodendrogenesis and may regulate cell survival, proliferation, and fate decisions in the oligodendrocyte lineage.
Temozolomide (TZM) is a novel methylating agent currently under investigation for treatment of recurrent high-grade gliomas. Although TZM generates a wide spectrum of methyl adducts, its cytotoxicity has been attributed to mismatch repair (MR)-mediated processing of O(6)-methylguanine:T mispairs. N3-methyladenine and N7-methylguanine adducts are promptly repaired by the base excision repair system, unless a poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase (PARP) inhibitor is combined to TZM. In this case, the repair process of N-methylpurines cannot be completed and the deriving DNA strand breaks contribute to cytotoxicity. In this study, we investigated the influence on cell growth and cell cycle of treatment with TZM + PARP inhibitor in glioma cells characterized by different susceptibility to TZM. The results indicated that PARP inhibitor increases growth inhibition induced by TZM in either p53-wild-type or p53-mutant glioblastoma cells, as early as 24 h after drug exposure. The enhancing effect exerted by PARP inhibitor was particularly evident in glioma cells characterized by a defective expression of MR, since these cells are tolerant to O(6)-methylguanine damage and show low sensitivity to TZM. In O(6)-alkylguanine-DNA alkyltransferase (OGAT)-deficient and MR-proficient tumor cells bearing wild-type p53, the drug combination markedly reduced cell accumulation in the G(2)/M phase of cell cycle and induction of the G(2) checkpoint regulator Chk1 kinase. In short-term cultures of glioma cells derived from surgical specimens, PARP inhibitor enhanced chemosensitivity to TZM and this effect was especially evident in OGAT-proficient tumors. Thus, a pharmacological strategy based on the interruption of N-methylpurine repair might represent a novel strategy to restore or increase glioma sensitivity to TZM.
Lineally related multipotent neuroepithelial cells (NEP), neuronal restricted precursors (NRP), and glial restricted precursors (GRP) have been identified in the spinal cord. To determine the sequence of differentiation and identify lineage and stage-specific markers, we have examined the spatiotemporal expression of established glial markers during rodent embryonic development and within fetal cell culture. In this report, we show that proliferating stem cells in the developing neural tube do not express any glial markers at E10.5. By E11, however, glial precursors have begun to differentiate and at least two regions of the ventral neural tube containing glial precursor cells can be distinguished, an Nkx2.2/Neurogenin 3 (Ngn3) domain and a platelet-derived growth factor receptor alpha (PDGFRalpha)/Olig2/Sox10 domain. Radial glia, as identified by RC1 immunoreactivity, develop in concert with other glial precursors and can be distinguished by their morphology, spatial distribution, and antigen expression. Astrocytes as assessed by glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) immunoreactivity are first detected at E16. A novel dorsal domain of CD44 immunoreactivity that can be distinguished from the more ventral glial precursor domains can be detected as early as E13.5.
Protein tyrosine kinase (PTK) activity is abundant in microglia, but the PTKs that participate in their activation have not been identified. For these studies, we used three paradigms to characterize PTK expression during microglial activation: resting and activated microglia were bulk fractionated from the adult brain, cultured newborn microglia were treated with lipopolysaccharide (LPS) to model the transition from activated toward phagocytic microglia, and PTK expression was examined in activated microglia in situ after facial nerve axotomy. Two PCR-based strategies were used to show that 21 different PTK genes are expressed by rat brain microglia: 5 receptor PTKs, 10 nonreceptor PTKs, and 6 members of the src family. Seven of the 21 PTKs were examined in greater detail. Five PTK mRNAs (fgr, hck, fak, jak-2, and flk-1) increased expression across all three models of activation. We conclude that they represent key components in the cascades that participate in microglial activation. In contrast, expression of fes and fms correlated with stimuli that affect microglial proliferation. Four of the PTKs (hck, fgr, fes, and fms) are believed to be myeloid cell specific and were not expressed by cultured astrocytes. HCK and FAK protein were also not expressed in lysates of immature astrocytes and oligodendrocytes. Because of their putative specificity, these kinases represent potential targets for inhibitors of microglial activation. Because reactive microglia can exacerbate the severity of neurological diseases, the identification of specific kinases that participate in microglial activation represents an important advance toward the development of new therapeutics.
A morphometric study of the chinchilla's ampullary nerves was conducted to produce an unbiased accounting of the diameter distribution of their constituent fibers. Diameter analyses were determined from 1 microm plastic-embedded nerve sections taken at a plane immediately proximal to the sensory epithelium. We found these nerves to be composed of 2094+/-573 fibers, having diameters that ranged from 0.5 to 8 microm. The distributions of diameters were positively skewed, where approximately 75% of the fibers were found to have diameters less than 3.5 microm. An analysis of the spatial distribution of diameters within the nerve section revealed that the lateralmost areas of the nerve contained larger fractions of fibers within the smallest diameter quintiles, and the central area harbored greater proportions of the larger diameter quintiles. However, significant fractions of all quintiles were found in all areas. These data were integrated with available data of Fernandez et al. (1998) to produce diameter estimates of calyx, dimorphic, and bouton morphology subpopulations. In view of a general relationship between diameter, innervation locus, and an afferent's physiologic characteristics, these data provide the basis for developing a perspective for the in situ distribution of afferent response dynamics.
Sudden unexpected death in epilepsy is the most common category of seizure-related death for patients who develop chronic epilepsy, accounting for up to 17% of epilepsy deaths. Sudden unexpected death in epilepsy is defined as a sudden, unexpected, non-accidental death in an individual with epilepsy with or without evidence of a seizure having occurred (excluding documented status epilepticus) and where autopsy does not reveal an anatomical or toxicological cause of death. Incidence rates range between 0.35 and 2.70 per 1000 person-years in the population-based studies and between 1.50 and 9.30 per 1000 person-years in selected cohorts. Seizure frequency appears to be an important factor in sudden unexpected death in epilepsy, although the exact pathogenetic mechanisms involved are unclear.
By means of fMRI measurements, the present study identifies brain regions in left and right peri-sylvian areas that subserve grammatical or prosodic processing. Normal volunteers heard 1) normal sentences; 2) so-called syntactic sentences comprising syntactic, but no lexical-semantic information; and 3) manipulated speech signals comprising only prosodic information, i.e., speech melody. For all conditions, significant blood oxygenation signals were recorded from the supratemporal plane bilaterally. Left hemisphere areas that surround Heschl gyrus responded more strongly during the two sentence conditions than to speech melody. This finding suggests that the anterior and posterior portions of the superior temporal region (STR) support lexical-semantic and syntactic aspects of sentence processing. In contrast, the right superior temporal region, in especially the planum temporale, responded more strongly to speech melody. Significant brain activation in the fronto-opercular cortices was observed when participants heard pseudo sentences and was strongest during the speech melody condition. In contrast, the fronto-opercular area is not prominently involved in listening to normal sentences. Thus, the functional activation in fronto-opercular regions increases as the grammatical information available in the sentence decreases. Generally, brain responses to speech melody were stronger in right than left hemisphere sites, suggesting a particular role of right cortical areas in the processing of slow prosodic modulations.
The toxicity of an abnormally long polyglutamine [poly(Q)] tract within specific proteins is the molecular lesion shared by Huntington's disease (HD) and several other hereditary neurodegenerative disorders. By a genetic screen in Drosophila, devised to uncover genes that suppress poly(Q) toxicity, we discovered a Drosophila homolog of human myeloid leukemia factor 1 (MLF1). Expression of the Drosophila homolog (dMLF) ameliorates the toxicity of poly(Q) expressed in the eye and central nervous system. In the retina, whether endogenously or ectopically expressed, dMLF co-localized with aggregates, suggesting that dMLF alone, or through an intermediary molecular partner, may suppress toxicity by sequestering poly(Q) and/or its aggregates.
Parkinson's disease (PD) is a progressive neurodegenerative disorder characterized by the inability to initiate, execute and control movement. Neuropathologically, there is a striking loss of dopamine-producing neurons in the substantia nigra pars compacta, accompanied by depletion of dopamine in the striatum. Most forms of PD are sporadic, though in some cases familial inheritance is observed. In the late 1990s, two mutations in the alpha-synuclein gene were linked to rare, autosomal dominant forms of PD. Previously cloned from cholinergic vesicles of the Torpedo electric ray, alpha-synuclein is highly enriched in presynaptic nerve terminals and appears to be involved in synapse maintenance and plasticity. It is expressed ubiquitously in the brain, raising the important question of why dopaminergic neurons are primarily targeted in persons carrying mutations in alpha-synuclein. In this article, we review the current literature on alpha-synuclein and suggest a possible role for this protein in vesicle recycling via its regulation of phospholipase D2, its fatty acid-binding properties, or both. Exogenous application of dopamine, as well as redistribution of vesicular dopamine to the cytoplasm, can be toxic to dopaminergic neurons. Thus, impaired neurotransmitter storage arising from mutations in alpha-synuclein could lead to cytoplasmic accumulation of dopamine. The breakdown of this labile neurotransmitter in the cytoplasm could, in turn, promote oxidative stress and metabolic dysfunction, both of which have been observed in nigral tissue from PD patients.
Spectral analysis was applied to study the variability in human rhythmic synchronization to a visual, auditory or combined auditory-visual metronome of about 2 Hz, as well as the variability in continuation tapping at the same rate with or without visual or auditory feedback. In synchronization, variability was larger in the visual condition than in the auditory and combined conditions, but only below frequencies of about 0.3 Hz. Thus, there seem to be at least two sources of variability in synchronization, one being modality-independent and limited to intervals shorter than 3 s, and the other being modality-dependent and evident as slow &quot;drift&quot;, especially in the visual task. In continuation tapping, variability did not depend reliably on the presence or modality of feedback. However, spectral analysis revealed a change in the temporal structure of variability around 0.08 Hz (a period of about 12 s or 24 taps), which roughly agrees with earlier findings reported in the literature.
Six patients suffering from major depression were treated with electroacupuncture. During 4 weeks of treatment, the total CPRS-S-A score decreased from 23.8 to 13.4 (p=0.0095). A decrease of neuropeptide Y (NPY) in plasma during the first 2 weeks of treatment was noted in five of the patients, all being women (p=0.0431). The decrease was negatively correlated with age (rs=-0.29; p=0.046). The results are in line with a putative antidepressive effect of electroacupuncture, along with an influence on NPY in plasma.
Speech intelligibility and horizontal localization of 19 subjects with mild-to-moderate hearing loss were studied in order to evaluate the advantages and disadvantages of bilateral and unilateral hearing aid (HA) fittings. Eight loudspeakers were arranged in a circular array covering the horizontal plane around the subjects. Speech signals of a sentence test were delivered by one, randomly chosen, loudspeaker. At the same time, the other seven loudspeakers emitted noise with the same long-term average spectrum as the speech signals. The subjects were asked to repeat the speech signal and to point out the corresponding loudspeaker. Speech intelligibility was significantly improved by HAs, bilateral amplification being superior to unilateral. Horizontal localization could not be improved by HA amplification. However, bilateral HAs preserved the subjects' horizontal localization, whereas unilateral amplification decreased their horizontal localization abilities. Front-back confusions were common in the horizontal localization test. The results indicate that bilateral HA amplification has advantages compared with unilateral amplification.
Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is a progressive neurodegenerative disorder characterized by motor neuron involvement. Mutations in the human Cu/Zn superoxide dismutase (SOD1) gene are found in some cases of familial ALS. Many studies have reported SOD1 mutation-related neurodegeneration. However, whether or not a mutant SOD1 affects neural development has not been demonstrated. We developed motor neuron-neuroblastoma hybrid cells that expressed a mutant (G93A) or the wild type (WT) SOD1. Cells were differentiated by dibutyryl cAMP and aphidicolin. The mutant showed a defect in neurite outgrowth and had decreased viability. Cytochrome c released and nuclear fragmentation were observed. Western blot analysis showed that the amount of neurofilament and microtubule associated proteins-2 (MAP-2) decreased during differentiation. These results suggest that the defect in neurite outgrowth of mutant SOD1 cells is a cytoskeletal defect and is associated with neuronal death.
Previous studies have shown that neonatal electrolytic lesions of basal forebrain cholinergic projections in mice lead to a transient cholinergic depletion of neocortex and to permanent alterations in cortical cytoarchitecture and in cognitive performance. The present study examines whether neonatal electrolytic lesions of the basal forebrain modify neocortical plasticity. Using cytochrome oxidase histochemistry, we compared cross-sectional areas of individual barrels in the barrel field of four groups of postnatal day 8 (P8) old mice that on P1 received either (1) right electrolytic lesions of the basal forebrain, (2) left C row 1-4 whisker follicle ablations, (3) combined lesion treatments or (4) ice anesthesia only. The size of barrels in basal forebrain lesioned animals was not significantly different from controls. However, the plastic response to whisker removal was compromised in basal forebrain lesioned animals. An index of plasticity, the ratio of row D/row C areas, was reduced significantly in the combined nBM lesioned/follicle ablation group. Compared to whisker-lesioned mice, the expansion in rows B and D and the shrinkage in the lesioned row C area were diminished in the combined treatment group. The present findings correspond to those from a study of rats injected with a cholinergic immunotoxin [Cereb. Cortex 8 (1998) 63]. These results suggest that cholinergic inputs play a role in regulating plasticity as well as in the morphogenesis of mouse sensory-motor cortex.

The beneficial effect of plant foods on human health is unmistakable. Time and time again, studies have found foods of plant origin to reduce the risk of most major chronic illnesses suffered by the human population. Possible mechanisms for the preventative effects of these foods are discussed. Each of the plant groups reviewed was found to reduce the risk of one or more of the following: cardiovascular disease, cancer (lung, breast, colon, rectal, prostate, epithelial, stomach, esophageal, oral, pharynx, larynx, urinary tract, endometrium, pancreas, thyroid, liver, ovary, gallbladder, bladder, and kidney), diabetes, hypertension, bone degeneration, diverticulitis, constipation, gallstones, age-related blindness. Almost no evidence was found to suggest a negative effect on health due to consumption of these plant foods. Based on this material and a review of conserved animal signaling molecules we surmise that animals require these chemicals to enhance specific mammalian cellular processes, demonstrating phyto-zooidal signaling. Further, this diet dependency coupling between plants and animals probably evolved because of the abundance of a particular plant material in a local environment, which is now broken because of technological advances. In conclusion, the overwhelming majority of evidence shows that people may significantly decrease their risks of the aforementioned diseases by increasing their intake of these foods since they represent a natural method to enhance animal processes and signaling.
In this article, we motivate models of medium to large-scale neural activity that place an emphasis on the modular nature of neocortical organization and discuss the occurrence of nonlinear interdependence in such models. On the basis of their functional, anatomical, and physiological properties, it is argued that cortical columns may be treated as the basic dynamical modules of cortical systems. Coupling between these columns is introduced to represent sparse long-range cortical connectivity. Thus, neocortical activity can be modeled as an array of weakly coupled dynamical subsystems. The behavior of such systems is represented by dynamical attractors, which may be fixed point, limit cycle, or chaotic in nature. If all the subsystems are perfectly identical, then the state of identical chaotic synchronization is a possible attractor for the array. Following the introduction of parameter variation across the array, such a state is not possible, although two other important nonlinear interdependences--generalized and phase synchronized--are possible. We suggest that an understanding of nonlinear interdependence may assist advances in models of neural activity and neuroscience time series analysis.
Given the well-known associations between the right frontal lobe and negative effective states, as well as the involvement of the right posterior region in the modulation of autonomic nervous system arousal, anxiety is thought to be associated with relative right hemisphere activity (or decreased left hemisphere activity). However, recent evidence suggests that the left hemisphere predominantly modulates parasympathetic efferents, while the right hemisphere predominantly modulates sympathetic efferents of the autonomic nervous system. Thus, the left hemisphere should also play a role in anxiety, as anxiety is associated with decreased parasympathetic activity (increased heart rate). In order to investigate this hypothesis, the present experiment examined the influence of a well-known autonomic stressor (cold pressor) on heart rate (HR), and verbal and nonverbal fluency performance. Fifteen high level (HI) anxious and 15 low level (LO) anxious men completed verbal and nonverbal fluency measures after they were asked to place their left hand in ice water for 45 s. HI anxious subjects demonstrated opposing HR patterns during performance of the verbal (increased HR) and nonverbal (decreased HR) fluency tasks following cold pressor stimulation. In addition, HI anxious men generated fewer words per minute on the verbal fluency task than did LO anxious men. Although the data are supportive of functional right hemisphere activity among anxious individuals, the contribution of decreased left hemisphere activity (i.e., reduced parasympathetic activity and diminished verbal fluency performance) is also discussed.
Blocking is a classical conditioning task in which prior training to one cue such as a tone reduces learning about a second cue such as a light, when subsequently trained as a tone-light compound. Blocking has been theorized to come about through a US-modulated error correction mechanism by Rescorla &amp; Wagner (1972) as well as through a mechanism of learned inattention as theorized by Mackintosh (1973). In the case of eyeblink conditioning, an error correction mechanism has been hypothesized to take place in the cerebellum while some form of inattention has been hypothesized to take place in the hippocampal region. The hypothesis we are testing is whether the mechanism of learned inattention is involved in blocking in rabbit eyeblink conditioning. If blocking in eyeblink conditioning is produced by a mechanism of learned inattention, then training to a previously blocked cue should be slower than training to that cue in a nave animal. Rabbits that had received tone training followed by tone-light training exhibited blocking. Rabbits that had been previously blocked to the light acquired conditioned responses to the light at the same rate as naive rabbits. This finding failed to support the hypothesis that blocking in rabbit eyeblink conditioning is due to learned inattention, but does support the Rescorla-Wagner mechanism of error correction. The present finding along with previous work on error correction mechanism in the cerebellar-brainstem circuit (Kim et al., 1998) lend support to the theory that blocking, at least in rabbit eyeblink conditioning, seems to be due to an error correction mechanism rather than a learned inattention mechanism.
Patients with AIDS often develop cognitive and motor dysfunction that results from damage to synapses and death of neurons in brain regions such as the hippocampus and basal ganglia. This brain syndrome, called AIDS dementia or HIV encephalitis, is believed to result from the infection of one or more populations of mitotic brain cells with HIV-1, which then release viral proteins that are toxic to neurons. Two neurotoxic HIV-1 proteins have been identified, the viral coat protein gp120 and the transcription regulator Tat. Each of these proteins can induce apoptosis of cultured neurons and can render neurons vulnerable to excitotoxicity and oxidative stress. Gp120 and Tat also cause neuronal dysfunction and death in rodents in vivo. Both gp120 and Tat disrupt neuronal calcium homeostasis by perturbing calcium-regulating systems in the plasma membrane and endoplasmic reticulum. Accordingly, drugs that stabilize cellular calcium homeostasis can protect neurons against the toxic effects of gp120 and Tat. By altering voltage-dependent calcium channels, glutamate receptor channels, and membrane transporters, the HIV-1 proteins promote calcium overload, oxyradical production, and mitochondrial dysfunction. A better understanding of how gp120 and Tat disrupt neuronal calcium homeostasis may lead to the development of novel treatments for AIDS patients.
This investigation examined the applicability of the self-regulatory model to adolescents with type 1 diabetes. Relationships among illness beliefs, diabetes self-management behaviors, psychological well-being, and blood glucose control were explored in 30 adolescents attending outpatient clinics in the United Kingdom. Correlation and regression analyses indicated that illness beliefs were not related to self-management behaviors, but both were important contributors to psychological well-being.
Reports of an inverse relationship between nicotine intake, due to cigarette smoking, and the incidence of Alzheimer's disease (AD) prompted us to investigate the effects of nicotine on amyloid beta-protein precursor (AbetaPP) processing in rat. Over-production and/or altered metabolism of AbetaPP, resulting in increased amyloid beta-peptide (Abeta), appear pivotal in the pathogenesis of AD. Abeta is generated proteolytically from betaPP by a group of secretases. AbetaPP cleavage by gamma-secretase results in the secretion of a truncated soluble betaPP (sAPPgamma) that contains intact Abeta. Nicotine, 1 and 8 mg/kg/day, doses commensurate with cigarette smoking and a higher but well tolerated dose, respectively, was administered over 14 days and Western blot analysis was performed on sAPP fragments. Both doses significantly reduced sAPPgamma. These actions were blocked by nicotinic receptor antagonism. Whereas nicotinic antagonists alone had no effect on either total sAPP or sAPPgammalevels in CSF, muscarinic antagonism significantly elevated them; suggesting that muscarinic rather than nicotinic receptor silence alters processing of AbetaPP to favor a potentially amyloidogenic route. Combined nicotine and muscarinic antagonism attenuated the action of the latter to elevate sAPPgamma, indicating that nicotine modifies AbetaPP processing away from potentially amyloidogenic products. These results suggest that within the brain, levels of total sAPP, sAPPgamma and, accordingly, Abeta are subject to cholinergic manipulation, offering therapeutic potential at the level of AbetaPP processing to decrease Abetadeposition.
Increases in sympathetic neural activity occur independently with either vestibular or mental stimulation, but it is unknown whether sympathetic activation is additive or inhibitive when both stressors are combined. The purpose of the present study was to investigate the combined effects of vestibular and mental stimulation on sympathetic neural activation and arterial pressure in humans. Muscle sympathetic nerve activity (MSNA), arterial pressure, and heart rate were recorded in 10 healthy volunteers in the prone position during 1) head-down rotation (HDR), 2) mental stress (MS; using arithmetic), and 3) combined HDR and MS. HDR significantly (P &lt; 0.05) increased MSNA (9 +/- 2 to 13 +/- 2 bursts/min). MS significantly increased MSNA (8 +/- 2 to 13 +/- 2 bursts/min) and mean arterial pressure (87 +/- 2 to 101 +/- 2 mmHg). Combined HDR and MS significantly increased MSNA (9 +/- 1 to 16 +/- 2 bursts/min) and mean arterial pressure (89 +/- 2 to 100 +/- 3 mmHg). Increases in MSNA (7 +/- 1 bursts/min) during the combination trial were not different from the algebraic sum of each trial performed alone (8 +/- 2 bursts/min). We conclude that the interaction for MSNA and arterial pressure is additive during combined vestibular and mental stimulation. Therefore, vestibular- and stress-mediated increases of MSNA appear to occur independently in humans.
Six protein kinase C (PKC) genes are present in Drosophila, comprising two classical PKCs (PKC53E and eye-PKC), two novel PKCs (PKC98E and PKCdelta), an atypical PKC (DaPKC), and a PKC-related kinase. Loss of function alleles affecting DaPKC and eye-PKC are available and their mutant phenotypes have been characterized. DaPKC is essential for early embryonic development because it regulates cell polarity and asymmetric cell division. Eye-PKC plays a role in the regulation of visual signaling, a G-protein coupled phospholipase Cbeta-mediated cascade. Both eye-PKC and DaPKC are differentially localized through tethering to multimolecular complexes. DaPKC interacts with partitioning-defective 3 (Par-3) and Par-6 proteins, which contain PDZ (PSD95, DLG, ZO-1) domains. Similarly, eye-PKC is anchored to a PDZ domain containing scaffolding protein INAD. Characterization of these two PKCs in Drosophila revealed a universal mechanism by which PKC is tethered to specific protein complexes for participation in distinct signal transduction processes.
Zinc is a metal ion of increasing significance in several biomedical fields, including neuroscience, immunology, reproductive biology, and cancer. Fluorescent indicators have added greatly to our understanding of the biology of several metal ions, most notably calcium. Despite substantial efforts, only recently have zinc indicators been developed which are sufficiently selective for use in the complex intra- and extracellular milieus, and which are capable of quantifying the free zinc levels with some degree of reliability. However, these indicators (such as FuraZin-1 and Newport Green DCF) have only modest sensitivity, and there is growing evidence that significantly lower levels of free zinc may be biologically relevant in some instances. We have adapted the peerless selectivity and sensitivity of a carbonic anhydrase-based indicator system to an excitation ratiometric format based on resonance energy transfer: i.e., where the zinc ion level is transduced as the ratio of fluorescence intensities excited at two different excitation wavelengths, which is preferred for fluorescence microscopy. The system exhibits more than a 60% increase in the ratio of intensity excited at 365 nm to that excited at 546 nm (emission observed at 617 nm). The detection limit is about 10 pM in zinc buffered systems, a 10-1000-fold improvement on the Fura indicators (which respond to Ca and Mg as well), and a 10 000-fold improvement on the recently described FuraZin-1.
The cloned vanilloid receptor 1 (VR1) is a ligand-gated calcium channel that is believed to be the capsaicin-activated vanilloid receptor found in native tissues, based on similarities regarding molecular mass, tissue distribution, and electrophysiological properties. Using a Fluorescent Imaging Plate Reader (FLIPR), along with Fluo-3 to signal intracellular calcium levels ([Ca(++)](i)), rat VR1 (rVR1) and a human orthologue (hVR1) were pharmacologically characterized with various VR1 ligands. HEK-293 cells, stably expressing rVR1 or hVR1, exhibited dose-dependent increases in [Ca(++)](i) when challenged with capsaicin (EC(50)s congruent with 10 nM). Responses to capsaicin were blocked by the VR1 antagonist capsazepine and were dependent on VR1 expression. Potencies for 10 structurally diverse VR1 agonists revealed rVR1 potencies highly correlated to that of hVR1 (R(2) = 0.973). However, a subset of agonists (tinyatoxin, gingerol, and zingerone) was approximately 10-fold more potent for rVR1 compared to hVR1. Schild analysis for blockade of capsaicin-induced responses by capsazepine was consistent with competitive antagonism, whereas ruthenium red displayed noncompetitive antagonism. Compared to rVR1, hVR1 was more sensitive to blockade by both antagonists. For both rVR1 and hVR1, time-response waveforms elicited by resiniferatoxin increased more gradually compared to other agonists. Tinyatoxin also displayed slow responses with hVR1 but showed rapid responses with rVR1. Thus, FLIPR technology can be used to readily reveal differences between rVR1 and hVR1 pharmacology with respect to potencies, efficacies, and kinetics for several VR1 ligands.
Estrogen can ameliorate brain damage in experimental models of focal cerebral ischemia., estrogen increases levels of apolipoprotein E (apoE), which also has neuroprotective effects in brain injury. The authors tested the hypotheses that physiologically relevant levels of 17beta-estradiol are neuroprotective in global cerebral ischemia and that neuroprotection is mediated via apoE. In the first study, subcutaneous implants of 17beta-estradiol were tested in female C57Bl/6J mice (ovariectomized and nonovariectomized) and plasma levels measured by radioimmunoassay to validate that physiologically relevant levels could be achieved. In the second study, female C57Bl/6J and apoE-deficient mice were ovariectomized and implanted with 17beta-estradiol or placebo pellet. Two weeks later, transient global ischemia was induced by bilateral carotid artery occlusion and the mice killed after 72 hours. Ischemic and normal neurons were counted in the caudate nucleus and CA1 pyramidal cell layer and the percentage of neuronal damage was compared between the treated groups. In C57Bl/6J mice, there was less neuronal damage in the 17beta-estradiol-treated group compared with placebo group in the caudate nucleus (15 +/- 20% versus 39 +/- 27%, = 0.02) and in the CA1 pyramidal cell layer (1.8 +/- 2% versus 10 +/- 14%, = 0.08). In contrast, neuronal damage was not significantly different between the 17beta-estradiol and placebo groups in apoE-deficient mice in the caudate nucleus (47 +/- 35% versus 53 +/- 29%, = 0.7) or in the CA1 pyramidal cell layer (24 +/- 19% versus 24 +/- 19%, = 1.0). The data indicate a neuroprotective role for estrogen in global ischemia, the mechanism of which is apoE-dependent.
This article addresses a key question on the use of selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) among children and adolescents. As briefly reviewed, recent randomized controlled trials have established the safety and efficacy of SSRIs in the acute treatment of major depression and anxiety disorders among children and adolescents. Major questions emerge in light of these data concerning the potential risks and benefits of long-term SSRI use among children and adolescents who receive significant short-term benefits from SSRI treatment. The current review summarizes research on longitudinal outcomes, neuroscience, and psychopharmacology to formulate a set of preliminary recommendations on long-term SSRI use. A review of data in these areas supports three conclusions. First, for children who achieve marked reduction in anxiety or depressive symptoms on an SSRI, clinicians should consider recommending a medication-free trial. Second, when indicated, this medication-free trial should coincide with the first low-stress period occurring after 1 year of continual SSRI treatment. Third, SSRI treatment should be reinitiated in children who exhibit signs of relapse during this medication-free trial.
Subacute sclerosing panencephalitis is caused by persistent brain infection of mutated measles virus, showing inflammation, neuronal loss, and demyelination. We neuropathologically examined six autopsy cases of subacute sclerosing panencephalitis, using in situ nick end-labeling and immunohistochemistry. Both the neurons and glial cells in the cerebral cortex showed immunoreactive nuclei in the nick end-labeling in two cases with disease duration within 2 years, whereas they were confined to the glial cells in the demyelinated cerebral white matter in three cases with disease duration ranging from 2 to 10 years. The nuclei and cytoplasm were immunoreactive for 8-hydroxy-2'-deoxyguanosine and 8-hydroxyguanosine, markers of oxidative damage to DNA and ribonucleic acid, respectively, in the cerebral cortex in three cases with disease duration within 9 years. In contrast, 4-hydroxy-2-nonenal-modified proteins, products of lipid peroxidation, were deposited in the demyelinated white matters in four cases with disease duration longer than 9 years. In three cases with long survival, the expression of glial glutamate transporters was reduced in the cerebral cortex. It is speculated in subacute sclerosing panencephalitis that apoptosis and oxidative stress to DNA can contribute to the early neuronal damage, whereas lipid peroxidation and disturbed glutamate transport may be related to the subsequent neurodegeneration.
This paper provides a critical review of RT and non-RT methodology for the conduct of research on semantic priming in Alzheimer's disease (AD) compared to elderly normal (EN) individuals. The review is organized by type of semantic priming (or attribute-knowledge) paradigm. Theoretical as well as methodological issues are highlighted insofar as they are relevant to: (1) the design, conduct, and analysis of semantic priming experiments (and closely related types of experiments) with AD compared to EN participants, and (2) the interpretation of findings from these experiments. Recommendations are provided for further research involving semantic priming and related paradigms with AD and certain other neuropsychological populations.
There has been a growing interest in cognitive deficits in schizophrenia in recent years. The use of traditional clinical neuropsychological measures of cognition in schizophrenia has the advantages of normative data and standardized administration, and remains the standard for cognitive assessment in clinical practice. However for the investigation of cognition in schizophrenia these methods have critical limitations in their ability to measure specific cognitive processes. In this paper we discuss solutions to these interpretive and measurement issues that can be provided by measures derived from experimental cognitive psychology. We suggest that the use of these measures will increasingly become the preferred approach to the investigation of the nature, neurobiology and genetics of impaired cognition in schizophrenia in the coming years.
Centers responding to a survey of MEP monitoring practices predominantly used transcranial electrical brain stimulation (TCES) with brief pulse trains and/or spinal cord stimulation (SCS) to elicit MEPs; transcranial magnetic stimulation and single-pulse TCES were not techniques of choice. Most centers using TCES had patient exclusion criteria (e.g., cochlear implants, cardiac pacemakers, prior craniotomy or skull fracture, history of seizures). Adverse effects included rare tongue injuries or seizures from TCES, and minor bleeding from needle electrodes in muscle. Spinal cord, peripheral nerve, and muscle recording sites were all employed. TCES with recording of muscle responses was the preferred MEP monitoring technique at the plurality of the centers. MEPs suitable for monitoring were obtained in about 91.6% of patients overall. Most of the failures were attributed to technical factors; preexisting neurologic dysfunction precluded MEP monitoring in approximately 1.7% of patients. Almost all centers monitored SEPs concurrently with MEPs. Overall, both measures remained stable during about 90.2% of cases. Adverse MEP changes occurred in about 8.3%; a little over half of these were accompanied by SEP changes. Adverse SEP changes without MEP changes occurred in about 1.5% of cases. SEPs and MEPs should be used together to optimally monitor the spinal cord.
This article reviews intraoperative transcranial electrical stimulation (TES) motor evoked potential (MEP) monitoring safety based on comparison with other clinical and experimental brain stimulation methods and clinical experience in more than 15000 cases. Comparative analysis indicates that brain damage and kindling are highly unlikely. There have been remarkably few adverse events. Pulse train TES-induced or coincidental seizures (n = 5) are rare, probably because of very brief (&lt;0.03 second) stimuli, anesthesia, and the general absence of predisposing cerebral conditions. Soft bite blocks may prevent tongue or lip laceration (n = 29) or mandibular fracture (n = 1). Rare cardiac arrhythmia (n = 5) and intraoperative awareness (n = 1) may be coincidental. Minor scalp burns (n = 2) are rare. Although possible, no spinal epidural recording electrode complications or injuries resulting from TES-induced movement were found. There have been no recognized adverse neuropsychological effects, headaches, or endocrine disturbances. Comprehensive relative contraindications include epilepsy, cortical lesions, convexity skull defects, raised intracranial pressure, cardiac disease, proconvulsant medications or anesthetics, intracranial electrodes, vascular clips or shunts, and cardiac pacemakers or other implanted biomedical devices. Otherwise unexplained intraoperative seizures and possibly arrhythmias are indications to abort TES. With appropriate precautions in expert hands, the well-established benefits of TES MEP monitoring decidedly outweigh the associated risks.
Issue: Both serotonin and GABA powerfully regulate the neuroanatomical circuit that mediates fear in anxiety disorders. This suggests that use of pharmacotherapies acting on both systems may provide synergistic therapeutic actions.
Research on the functional organization of the lateral prefrontal cortex (PFC) in working memory continues to be fairly equivocal between two major frameworks: organization-by-process or organization-by-material. Although there is fairly strong evidence for organization-by-process models from event-related fMRI studies, some investigators argue that the nature of the stimulus material better defines the functional organization of the lateral PFC, particularly in more ventral regions (BA 47/45/44). Specifically, the anterior region of the ventrolateral PFC (BA 47/45) is hypothesized to subserve semantic processing while the posterior region (BA 44) may subserve phonological processing. In the current event-related fMRI study, we directly compared process-related versus material-related organizational principles in a verbal working memory task. Subjects performed a modified delayed response task in which they (1) retained a list of five words or five nonwords during the delay period (&quot;maintenance&quot;), or (2) performed a semantic (size reordering) or phonological (alphabetical reordering) task on the word or nonword lists, respectively (&quot;manipulation&quot;). We did not find evidence during the delay period of our task to support claims of anterior-posterior specializations in the ventrolateral PFC for semantic versus phonological processing. Subjects did, however, display greater neuronal activity during the delay period of manipulation trials than maintenance trials in both the dorsolateral PFC and posterior ventrolateral regions. These data are more consistent with the process model of the organization of lateral PFC in verbal working memory.
Participants were required to make a saccade to a uniquely colored target while ignoring the presentation of an onset distractor. The results provide evidence for a competitive integration model of saccade programming that assumes endogenous and exogenous saccades are programmed in a common saccade map. The model incorporates a lateral interaction structure in which saccade-related activation at a specific location spreads to neighboring locations but inhibits distant locations. In addition, there is top-down, location-specific inhibition of locations to which the saccade should not go. The time course of exogenous and endogenous activation in the saccade map can explain a variety of eye movement data, including endpoints, latencies, and trajectories of saccades and the well-known global effect.
Drug-induced iatrogenic hallucinations and psychosis occur in about 30% of Parkinson's disease (PD) patients and are the single most important precipitant for nursing home placement, which carries a grave prognosis. In addition, parkinsonism is a frequent accompaniment to the more common dementing syndromes, Alzheimer's disease (AD), vascular dementia, and dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB). The five most recent antipsychotic drugs approved by the Food and Drug Administration in the United States have been marketed as &quot;atypical&quot; antipsychotics (AA) due to their relative freedom from extrapyramidal symptoms when used in schizophrenia patients. The use of these newer antipsychotic drugs in PD and other parkinson-sensitive populations represents the most stringent test to their freedom from motor side effects. To date, clozapine, risperidone, olanzapine, and quetiapine have been studied in parkinson-vulnerable populations. This article reviews the data and highlights the differences that these four drugs have on motor function. It also emphasizes the challenges in evaluating the available data on the motor effects of AA, especially on the non-PD elderly and cognitively impaired population. Suggestions are made for future research to improve the interpretability of these studies.


Previous studies have reported that mature oligodendrocytes (OLGs) in vitro display various voltage-dependent K+ currents while in situ OLGs show only voltage-independent K+ currents. Given this discrepancy and the lack of information on myelinating OLG ion channel expression in situ, we characterized mature OLG currents in myelinating corpus callosum slices from 17 to 36-day old rats. OLGs were recorded in cell-attached and whole-cell patch-clamp configurations, displayed morphology typical of mature OLGs, and stained positive for myelin basic protein. OLGs displayed large voltage-independent currents that decayed during the voltage pulse and small voltage-activated outward currents. The latter were blocked by TEA, activated between -40 and -50 mV, and decayed slowly. The former were composed of large voltage-independent, time-dependent Ba2+ (1 mM)-sensitive currents, and voltage-dependent Cs+ (5 mM) and Ba2+ (100 mM)-sensitive currents that reversed near the K+ equilibrium potential and inactivated at hyperpolarized potentials, identifying them as inwardly rectifying K+ currents. Inwardly rectifying single-channel K+currents could be recorded in the cell-attached configuration. The estimated single-channel slope conductance was 30 pS. The steady-state open probability was voltage-dependent and declined from 0.9 to 0.5 between -80 and -150 mV. Overall, mature OLGs in situ possess time- and also voltage-dependent K+ currents, which may facilitate clearance of K+ released during axonal firing.
Transecting the axons of neurons in the adult superior cervical ganglion (SCG; axotomy) results in the survival of most postganglionic neurons, the influx of circulating monocytes, proliferation of satellite cells, and changes in neuronal gene expression. In contrast, transecting the afferent input to the SCG (decentralization) results in nerve terminal degeneration and elicits a different pattern of gene expression. We examined the effects of decentralization on macrophages in the SCG and compared the results to those previously obtained after axotomy. Monoclonal antibodies were used to identify infiltrating (ED1+) and resident (ED2+) macrophages, as well as macrophages expressing MHC class II molecules (OX6+). Normal ganglia contained ED2+ cells and OX6+ cells, but few infiltrating macrophages. After decentralization, the number of infiltrating ED1+ cells increased in the SCG to a density about twofold greater than that previously seen after axotomy. Both the densities of ED2+ and OX6+ cells were essentially unchanged after decentralization, though a large increase in OX6+ cells occurred after axotomy. Proliferation among the ganglion's total non-neuronal cell population was examined and found to increase about twofold after decentralization and about fourfold after axotomy. Double-labeling experiments indicated that some of these proliferating cells were macrophages. After both surgical procedures, the percentage of proliferating ED2+ macrophages increased, while neither procedure altered the proliferation of ED1+ macrophages. Axotomy, though not decentralization, increased the proliferation of OX6+ cells. Future studies must address what role(s) infiltrating and/or resident macrophages play in regions of decentralized and axotomized neurons and, if both are involved, whether they play distinct roles.
In heterologous expression systems, dopamine transporter (DAT) cell-surface localization is reduced after relatively prolonged exposure to d-amphetamine (AMPH) or dopamine (DA), suggesting a role for substrate-mediated regulation of transporter function. Here, we investigated whether brief, repeated periods of substrate exposure modulated transporter function, first, in an in vitro model system and, second, in intact rat brain. In human DAT-expressing Xenopus laevis oocytes, repeated exposure to low micromolar concentrations of DA, AMPH or tyramine markedly reduced transport-mediated currents. This functional down-regulation was attenuated by inclusion of a protein kinase C (PKC) inhibitor and probably reflects DAT redistribution, as cell-surface [3H]WIN 35 428 binding was significantly lower following DA exposure. High-speed chronoamperometry was used to measure clearance of exogenously applied DA in dorsal striatum (STR) and nucleus accumbens (NAc) of anesthetized rats. In STR, frequent (every 2 min) applications of DA altered DA clearance parameters in a manner consistent with profound down-regulation of DAT function. Similar changes were not observed in NAc or after repeated vehicle (ascorbic acid) application. Together, our results suggest that brief, repeated periods of substrate exposure lead to rapid down-regulation of DAT activity and that this type of regulation can occur in vivo in STR, but not NAc.
Translin is a nucleic acid binding protein that has been implicated in regulating the targeting and translation of dendritic RNA. In previous studies, we found that Translin and its partner protein, Trax, are components of a gel-shift complex that is highly enriched in brain extracts. In those studies, we employed a DNA oligonucleotide, GS1, as a probe to label the complex. Translin has also been identified as a component of a gel-shift complex detected using an RNA oligonucleotide probe, derived from the 3' UTR of protamine-2 mRNA. Although we had assumed that these probes labeled the same complex, recent studies indicate that association of Trax with Translin suppresses its RNA binding activity. As these findings challenge this assumption and suggest that the native RNA binding complex does not contain Trax, we have re-examined this issue. We have found that the gel-shift complexes labeled with either GS1 or protamine-2 probes are &quot;supershifted&quot; by addition of Trax antibodies, indicating that both are heteromeric Translin/Trax complexes. In addition, cross-competition studies provide additional evidence that these probes label the same complex. Furthermore, analysis of recombinant Translin/Trax complexes generated by co-transfection of Trax with Translin in hEK293T demonstrates that they are labeled with either probe. Although recombinant Translin forms a homomeric nucleic acid binding complex in vitro, our findings indicate that both Trax and Translin are components of the native gel-shift complex labeled with either GS1 or protamine-2 probes.
Members of the interleukin-6 (IL-6) family of cytokines have been implicated as major mediators of the response of the adult nervous system to injury. The basis for an interaction of IL-6 cytokines with adult sensory neurones has been established by analysing the levels and distribution of the two signal-transducing receptor subunits, glycoprotein 130 (gp130) and leukaemia inhibitory factor receptor (LIFR), in the dorsal root ganglion (DRG) of male adult rats before and following nerve injury. All sensory neurones express gp130-immunoreactivity (IR) in the cytoplasm and on the plasma membrane. Levels of gp130 and its intracellular distribution remained unchanged up to 14 days following sciatic nerve axotomy. LIFR-IR was largely absent from the cytoplasm and plasma membrane of sensory neurones, but confined almost exclusively to the nuclear compartment. However, following axotomy, punctate cytoplasmic LIFR-IR was detected which persisted up to 28 days following axotomy. The expression of cytoplasmic LIFR 2 days post-axotomy was proportionally greater in a subset of small diameter sensory neurones which expressed either the sensory neuropeptide CGRP or the cell surface marker isolectin B4. The coexpression of gp130 and LIFR in the same intracellular compartment following axotomy conveys potential responsiveness of injured sensory neurones to members of the IL-6 family of cytokines.
Hydrogen sulfide (H2S) is endogenously produced in the brain from L-cysteine by the enzyme cystathionine beta-synthase (CBS) and functions as a neuromodulator in the brain. H2S selectively enhances NMDA receptor-mediated responses and alters hippocampal long-term potentiation (LTP). The production of H2S is regulated by Ca2+/calmodulin-mediated pathways and is enhanced in response to neuronal excitation. In addition to this fast regulation, we describe here a slower form of the regulation of H2S production by testosterone and S-adenosyl-L-methionine (SAM), a CBS activator. Endogenous H2S in the mouse brain increases after birth, reaches a maximum level at 8 weeks and then decreases. Female brain contains less H2S than male brain at each age. A single administration of testosterone to female mice increases the endogenous H2S and SAM, which reach levels similar to those of male mice. In contrast, castration of male mice decreases the levels of testosterone, SAM and H2S in the brain. Administration of SAM once a day for 3 days increases the brain H2S without significantly changing the testosterone level. These observations suggest that testosterone can regulate the brain H2S level via changing the level of SAM.
Ca2+ oscillations regulate secretion of the hormone alpha-melanphore-stimulating hormone (alpha-MSH) by the neuroendocrine pituitary melanotrope cells of the amphibian Xenopus laevis. These Ca2+ oscillations are built up by discrete increments in the intracellular Ca2+ concentration, the Ca2+ steps, which are generated by electrical membrane bursting firing activity. It has been demonstrated that the patterns of Ca2+ oscillations and kinetics of the Ca2+ steps can be modulated by changing the degree of intracellular Ca2+ buffering. We hypothesized that neurotransmitters known to regulate alpha-MSH secretion also modulate the pattern of Ca2+ oscillations and related electrical membrane activity. In this study, we tested this hypothesis for the secretagogue sauvagine. Using high temporal-resolution Ca2+ imaging, we show that sauvagine modulated the pattern of Ca2+ signalling by increasing the frequency of Ca2+ oscillations and inducing a broadening of the oscillations through its effect on various Ca2+ step parameters. Second, we demonstrate that sauvagine caused a small but significant decrease in K+ currents measured in the whole-cell voltage-clamp, whereas Ca2+ currents remained unchanged. Third, in the cell-attached patch-clamp mode, a stimulatory effect of sauvagine on action current firing was observed. Moreover, sauvagine changed the shape of individual action currents. These results support the hypothesis that the secretagogue sauvagine stimulates the frequency of Ca2+ oscillations in Xenopus melanotropes by altering Ca2+ step parameters, an action that likely is evoked by an inhibition of K+ currents.
The medial preoptic nucleus (MPN) of the rat, an excellent model for understanding the mechanisms involved in sexual differentiation, is highly sensitive to gonadal hormones during both pre- and post-natal life. Progesterone receptor (PR) expression is sexually dimorphic in the prenatal MPN. Males have significantly higher levels of PR-immunoreactivity (PRir) than females from approximately embryonic day 19 through at least the day of birth, suggesting that PR may play a role in sexual differentiation. Because the MPN is still sensitive to steroid hormones postnatally, the present study investigated PR expression in the MPN of males and females after birth using immunocytochemistry. Results indicate that a sex difference in PR expression persists until at least postnatal day (P) 28. However, females begin to express PR around P10. Because oestradiol regulates PR expression in the adult brain, this study also examined the influence of gonadal hormones on PR expression in the neonatal male and female MPN. Castration on the day of birth significantly reduced levels of PRir in the MPN by 24 h following surgery. Ovariectomy on P4, before the onset of ovarian steroidogenesis, prevented the induction of PR expression in the female MPN, observed in controls by P13. In both sexes, the presence of PRir in the MPN is dependent on gonadal hormone exposure. These findings suggest that differences in steroid secretion by the neonatal male and female gonads are responsible for producing sex differences in the level of PR expression in the postnatal MPN.

Although conventional magnetic resonance imaging (cMRI) is widely used for diagnosing multiple sclerosis (MS) and monitoring disease activity and evolution, the correlation between cMRI and clinical findings is far from strict. Among the reasons for this &quot;clinical-MRI paradox,&quot; a major role has been attributed to the limited specificity of cMRI to the heterogeneous pathological substrates of MS and to its inability to quantify the extent of damage in the normal-appearing tissue. Modern quantitative MRI techniques have the potential to overcome some of the limitations of cMRI. Metrics derived from magnetization transfer and diffusion-weighted MRI enable one to quantify the extent of structural changes occurring within and outside macroscopic MS lesions with increased pathological specificity over cMRI. Magnetic resonance spectroscopy can add information on the biochemical nature of such changes, with the potential to improve significantly our ability to monitor inflammatory demyelination and axonal injury. Finally, functional MRI might provide new insights into the role of cortical adaptive changes in limiting the clinical consequences of white-matter structural damage. This review outlines the major contributions given by MRI-based techniques to the diagnostic work-up of MS patients, to the understanding of the pathobiology of the disease, and to the assessment of the effects of new experimental treatments.
Murine tumor necrosis factor-alpha (mTNF-alpha) results in the sensitization of mechanisms underlying plasma corticosterone activity and sickness behavior, the latter being reminiscent of septic or anaphylactic shock. The mTNF-alpha induced a sensitization of sickness and corticosterone in mice that was attenuated by pretreatment with the combinations of histamine H(1) (diphenhydramine, mepyramine) and H(2) (cimetidine) antagonists. Likewise, coadministration of diphenhydramine and cimetidine prevented the mTNF-alpha-provoked rise of monoamine activity within the posterior hypothalamus. Although dexamethasone ameliorated the mTNF-alpha-induced sensitization of corticosterone, illness behavior was unaffected. It is suggested that mTNF-alpha-induced illness and the neuroendocrine sensitization are mediated by endogenous histamine.
Brain metastases occur in 20-40% of patients with cancer and their frequency has increased over time. Lung, breast and skin (melanoma) are the commonest sources of brain metastases, and in up to 15% of patients the primary site remains unknown. After the introduction of MRI, multiple lesions have outnumbered single lesions. Contrast-enhanced MRI is the gold standard for the diagnosis. There are no pathognomonic features on CT or MRI that distinguish brain metastases from primary malignant brain tumors or nonneoplastic conditions: therefore a tissue diagnosis by biopsy should be always obtained in patients with unknown primary tumor before undergoing radiotherapy and/or chemotherapy. Some factors are prognostically important: a high Performance Status, a solitary brain metastasis, an absence of systemic metastases, a controlled primary tumor and a younger age. Based on these factors, subgroups of patients with different prognosis have been identified (RPA class I, II, III). Symptomatic therapy includes corticosteroids to reduce vasogenic cerebral edema and anticonvulsants to control seizures. In patients with newly diagnosed brain metastases prophylactic anticonvulsants should not be used routinely. The combination of surgery and whole-brain radiotherapy (WBRT) is superior to WBRT alone for the treatment of single brain metastasis in patients with limited or absent systemic disease and good neurological condition. Complete surgical resection allows a relief of intracranial hypertension, seizures and focal neurological deficits. Radiosurgery, alone or in conjunction with WBRT, yields results which are comparable to those reported after surgery followed by WBRT, provided that lesion's diameter does not exceed 3-3.5 cm. Radiosurgery offers the potential of treating patients with surgically inaccessible metastases. Still controversial is the need for WBRT after surgery or radiosurgery: local control seems better with the combined approach, but overall survival does not improve. Late neurotoxicity in long surviving patients after WBRT is not negligible; to avoid this complication patients with favorable prognostic factors must be treated with conventional schedules of RT, and monitoring of cognitive functions is important. WBRT alone is the treatment of choice in patients with single brain metastasis not amenable to surgery or radiosurgery, and with an active systemic disease, and in patients with multiple brain metastases. A small subgroup of these latter may benefit from surgery. The response rate of brain metastases to chemotherapy is similar to the response rate of the primary tumor and extracranial metastases, some tumor types being more chemosensitive (small cell lung carcinoma, breast carcinoma, germ cell tumors). New radiosensitizers and cytotoxic or cytostatic agents, and innovative technique of drug delivery are being investigated.



Primary visual cortex contains functional maps of a number of stimulus properties including ocular dominance, orientation, direction, color, and spatial frequency. These maps must be organized with respect to each other and to a single continuous retinotopic map of visual space such that each stimulus parameter is represented at each point in space. In the ferret, geniculo-cortical inputs to cortical layer IV are segregated into ON- and OFF-center patches, suggesting the possibility that there might be an additional cortical map in this species. We have used optical imaging of intrinsic signals to search for ON-OFF maps in ferret visual cortical cells and have found none. This suggests that the high degree of ON-OFF segregation seen subcortically in the ferret may play a role in the development of visual cortical receptive fields rather than in adult cortical function.
Classical eye-blink conditioning in mutant mice can be used to study the molecular mechanisms underlying associative learning. To measure the kinetic and frequency domain properties of conditioned (tone - periorbital shock procedure) and unconditioned eyelid responses in freely moving mice, we developed a method that allows adequate, absolute, and continuous determination of their eyelid movements in time and space while using an electrical shock as the unconditioned stimulus. The basic principle is to generate a local magnetic field that moves with the animal and that is picked up by either a field-sensitive chip or coil. With the use of this magnetic distance measurement technique (MDMT), but not with the use of electromyographic recordings, we were able to measure mean latency, peak amplitude, velocity, and acceleration of unconditioned eyelid responses, which equaled 7.9 +/- 0.2 ms, 1.2 +/- 0.02 mm, 28.5 +/- 1 mm/s, and 637 +/- 22 mm/s(2), respectively (means +/- SD). During conditioning, the mice reached an average of 78% of conditioned responses over four training sessions, while animals that were subjected to randomly paired conditioned and unconditioned stimuli showed no significant increases. The mean latency of the conditioned responses decreased from 222 +/- 40 ms in session 2 to 127 +/- 6 ms in session 4, while their mean peak latency increased from 321 +/- 45 to 416 +/- 67 ms. The mean peak amplitudes, peak velocities, and peak acceleration of these responses increased from 0.62 +/- 0.02 to 0.77 +/- 0.02 mm, from 3.9 +/- 0.3 to 7.7 +/- 0.5 mm/s, and from 81 +/- 7 to 139 +/- 10 mm/s(2), respectively. Power spectra of acceleration records illustrated that both the unconditioned and conditioned responses of mice had oscillatory properties with a dominant peak frequency close to 25 Hz that was not dependent on training session, interstimulus interval, or response size. These data show that MDMT can be used to measure the kinetics and frequency domain properties of conditioned eyelid responses in mice and that these properties follow the dynamic characteristics of other mammals.
Motor sequence learning involves learning of a sequence of effectors with which to execute a series of movements and learning of a sequence of timings at which to execute the movements. In this study, we have segregated the neural correlates of the two learning mechanisms. Moreover, we have found an interaction between the two learning mechanisms in the frontal areas, which we claim as suggesting action-oriented coding in the frontal lobe. We used positron emission tomography and compared three learning conditions with a visuo-motor control condition. In two learning conditions, the subjects learned either a sequence of finger movements with random timing or a sequence of timing with random use of fingers. In the third condition the subjects learned to execute a sequence of specific finger movements at specific timing; we argue that it was only in this condition that the motor sequence was coded as an action-oriented representation. By looking for condition by session interactions (learning vs. control conditions over sessions), we have removed nonspecific time effects and identified areas that showed a learning-related increment of activation during learning. Learning of a finger sequence was associated with an increment of activation in the right intraparietal sulcus region and medial parietal cortex, whereas learning of a timing sequence was associated with an increment of activation in the lateral cerebellum, suggesting separate mechanisms for learning effector and temporal sequences. The left intraparietal sulcus region showed an increment of activation in learning of both finger and timing sequences, suggesting an overlap between the two learning mechanisms. We also found that the mid-dorsolateral prefrontal cortex, together with the medial and lateral premotor areas, became increasingly active when subjects learned a sequence that specified both fingers and timing, that is, when subjects were able to prepare specific motor action. These areas were not active when subjects learned a sequence that specified fingers or timing alone, that is, when subjects were still dependent on external stimuli as to the timing or fingers with which to execute the movements. Frontal areas may integrate the effector and temporal information of a motor sequence and implement an action-oriented representation so as to perform a motor sequence accurately and quickly. We also found that the mid-dorsolateral prefrontal cortex was distinguished from the ventrolateral prefrontal cortex and anterior fronto-polar cortex, which showed sustained activity throughout learning sessions and did not show either an increment or decrement of activation.
We report neck muscle activity and head movements evoked by electrical stimulation of the superior colliculus (SC) in head-unrestrained monkeys. Recording neck electromyography (EMG) circumvents complications arising from the head's inertia and the kinetics of muscle force generation and allows precise assessment of the neuromuscular drive to the head plant. This study served two main purposes. First, we sought to test the predictions made in the companion paper of a parallel drive from the SC onto neck muscles. Low-current, long-duration stimulation evoked both neck EMG responses and head movements either without or prior to gaze shifts, testifying to a SC drive to neck muscles that is independent of gaze-shift initiation. However, gaze-shift initiation was linked to a transient additional EMG response and head acceleration, confirming the presence of a SC drive to neck muscles that is dependent on gaze-shift initiation. We forward a conceptual neural architecture and suggest that this parallel drive provides the oculomotor system with the flexibility to orient the eyes and head independently or together, depending on the behavioral context. Second, we compared the EMG responses evoked by SC stimulation to those that accompanied volitional head movements. We found characteristic features in the underlying pattern of evoked neck EMG that were not observed during volitional head movements in spite of the seemingly natural kinematics of evoked head movements. These features included reciprocal patterning of EMG activity on the agonist and antagonist muscles during stimulation, a poststimulation increase in the activity of antagonist muscles, and synchronously evoked responses on agonist and antagonist muscles regardless of initial horizontal head position. These results demonstrate that the electrically evoked SC drive to the head cannot be considered as a neural replicate of the SC drive during volitional head movements and place important new constraints on the interpretation of electrically evoked head movements.
The role of the primate superior colliculus (SC) in orienting head movements was studied by recording electromyographic (EMG) activity from multiple neck muscles following electrical stimulation of the SC. Combining SC stimulation with neck EMG recordings provides an objective and sensitive measure of the SC drive onto neck muscle motoneurons, particularly in relation to evoked gaze shifts. In this paper, we address how neck EMG responses to SC stimulation in head-restrained monkeys depend on the rostrocaudal, mediolateral, and dorsoventral location of the stimulating electrode within the SC and vary with manipulations of the eye position prior to stimulation onset and changes in stimulation current and duration. Stimulation predominantly evoked EMG responses on the muscles obliquus capitis inferior, rectus capitis posterior major, and splenius capitis. These responses became larger in magnitude and shorter in onset latency for progressively more caudal stimulation locations, consistent with turning the head. However, evoked responses persisted even for more rostral stimulation locations usually not associated with head movements. Manipulating initial eye position revealed that the magnitude of evoked responses became stronger as the eyes attained positions contralateral to the side of stimulation, consistent with a summation between a generic command evoked by SC stimulation and the influence of eye position on tonic neck EMG. Manipulating stimulation current and duration revealed that the relationship between gaze shifts and evoked EMG responses is not obligatory: short-duration (&lt;20 ms) or low-current stimulation evoked neck EMG responses in the absence of gaze shifts. However, long-duration stimulation (&gt;150 ms) occasionally revealed a transient neck EMG response aligned on the onset of sequential gaze shifts. We conclude that the SC drive to neck muscle motoneurons is far more widespread than traditionally supposed and is relayed through intervening elements which may or may not be activated in association with gaze shifts.
Layer 6 is the main source of neocortical connections back to specific thalamic nuclei. Corticothalamic (CT) systems play an important role in shaping sensory input, but little is known about the functional circuitry that generates CT activity. We recorded from the two main types of neurons in layer 6, regular-spiking (RS; pyramidal neurons) and fast-spiking (FS; inhibitory interneurons) cells and compared the physiological properties of different excitatory inputs. Thalamic stimulation evoked two monosynaptic inputs with distinct properties: suspected thalamocortical (TC) synaptic events had short latencies, short-term synaptic depression, and paired-pulse responses that suggested subnormal axonal conduction. A second group of synaptic responses likely originated from intracortical collaterals of CT cells that were antidromically activated from the thalamus. These intracortical responses had longer latencies, short-term synaptic facilitation, and were transmitted by axons with supernormal conduction. Suspected TC inputs to FS cells had significantly larger amplitudes than those onto RS cells. Dual recordings from neighboring neurons in layer 6 revealed both facilitating and depressing synaptic connections; the depressing synapses were probably formed by layer 6 cells that do not project to the thalamus, and thus were not sampled by thalamic stimulation. We conclude that layer 6 neurons integrate a variety of inputs with distinct temporal dynamics that are determined by the presynaptic cell type.
The anterior forebrain pathway (AFP) of the avian song system is a circuit essential for song learning but not for song production. This pathway consists of a loop serially connecting area X in the basal ganglia, the medial portion of the dorsolateral nucleus of thalamus (DLM), and the pallial lateral magnocellular nucleus of the anterior neostriatum (lMAN). The majority of DLM neurons in adult male zebra finches closely resemble mammalian thalamocortical neurons in both their intrinsic properties and the strong GABAergic inhibitory input they receive from the basal ganglia. These observations support the hypothesis that the AFP and the mammalian basal ganglia-thalamocortical pathway use similar information-processing mechanisms during sensorimotor learning. Our goal was to determine whether the cellular properties of DLM neurons are already established in juvenile birds in the sensorimotor phase of song learning when the AFP is essential. Current- and voltage-clamp recording in DLM of juvenile male zebra finches showed that juvenile DLM has two distinct cell types with intrinsic properties largely similar to those of their respective adult counterparts. Immunostaining for glutamic acid decarboxylase (GAD) in juvenile zebra finches revealed that, as in adults, most area X somata are large and strongly GAD+ and that their terminals in DLM form dense GAD+ baskets around somata. GAD immunoreactivity in DLM was depleted by lesions of area X, indicating that a strong GABAergic projection from area X to DLM is already established in juveniles. Some of the DLM neurons exhibited large, spontaneous GABAergic synaptic events. Stimulation of the afferent pathway evoked an inhibitory postsynaptic potential or current that was blocked by the GABA(A) receptor antagonist bicuculline methiodide. The decay of the GABA(A) receptor-mediated currents was slower in juvenile neurons than in adults. In addition, the reversal potential for these currents in juveniles was significantly more depolarized both than that in adults and than the Cl(-) equilibrium potential; yet the reversal potential was still well below the firing threshold and thus inhibitory in the slice preparation. Our findings suggest that the signal-processing role of DLM during sensorimotor learning is generally similar to that in adulthood but that quantitative changes in synaptic transmission accompany the development of stereotyped song.
To analyze the organization of corticostriatal motor inputs, we examined the neuronal responses in the putamen (Put) to stimulation in the primary motor cortex (MI) and the supplementary motor area (SMA). Stimulating electrodes were chronically implanted in the distal and proximal parts of the forelimb representation of the MI and in the forelimb representation of the SMA in Japanese monkeys (Macaca fuscata). Stimulation in the MI and SMA evoked orthodromic spike discharges in both phasically active and tonically active Put neurons. The latency of excitation evoked by MI stimulation was shorter than that of excitation evoked by SMA stimulation. Neurons responding exclusively to MI stimulation (MI-recipient neurons) and those responding exclusively to SMA stimulation (SMA-recipient neurons) were distributed predominantly in the ventrolateral and dorsomedial portion of the caudal aspect of the Put, respectively. About 20% of the recorded neurons responded concurrently to stimulation in both the MI and SMA (MI + SMA-recipient neurons). These neurons were located in the intermediate zone between the MI- and SMA-recipient zones. More than half of the Put neurons responded to sensorimotor stimulation. Movements of the forelimb were readily elicited by microstimulation in the MI-recipient zone, less frequently in the MI + SMA-recipient zone, and rarely in the SMA-recipient zone. More detailed analysis of the somatotopic arrangement based on cortical inputs, sensorimotor responses, and microstimulation-evoked movements revealed that within the MI- and MI + SMA-recipient zones of the Put, neurons representing the distal part of the forelimb were located more ventrally than those representing the proximal part. No such somatotopy was clearly detected in the SMA-recipient zone. The present results indicate that corticostriatal inputs from the forelimb regions of the MI and SMA are largely segregated. On the other hand, convergent inputs from the MI and SMA were noted on single neurons located at the junction between the two input zones. In addition, the corticostriatal inputs from the forelimb region of the MI exhibited a distal to proximal somatotopic organization along the ventrodorsal axis of the Put.
The hypothalamus influences a number of autonomic functions. The activity of hypothalamic neurons is modulated in part by release of the inhibitory neurotransmitter GABA onto these neurons. GABA(A) receptors are formed from a number of distinct subunits, designated alpha, beta, gamma, delta, epsilon, and theta, many of which have multiple isoforms. Little data exist, however, on the functional characteristics of the GABA(A) receptors present on hypothalamic neurons. To gain insight into which GABA(A) receptor subunits are functionally expressed in the hypothalamus, we used an array of pharmacologic assessments. Whole cell recordings were made from thin hypothalamic slices obtained from 1- to 14-day-old rats. GABA(A) receptor-mediated currents were detected in all neurons tested and had an average EC(50) of 20 +/- 1.6 microM. Hypothalamic GABA(A) receptors were modulated by diazepam (EC(50) = 0.060 microM), zolpidem (EC(50) = 0.19 microM), loreclezole (EC(50) = 4.4 microM), methyl-6,7-dimethoxy-4-ethyl-beta-carboline (EC(50) = 7.7 microM), and 5alpha-pregnan-3alpha-hydroxy-20-one (3alpha-OH-DHP). Conversely, these receptors were inhibited by Zn(2+) (IC(50) = 70.5 microM), dehydroepiandrosterone sulfate (IC(50) = 16.7 microM), and picrotoxin (IC(50) = 2.6 microM). The alpha4/6-selective antagonist furosemide (10-1,000 microM) was ineffective in all hypothalamic neurons tested. The results of our pharmacological analysis suggest that hypothalamic neurons express functional GABA(A) receptor subtypes that incorporate alpha1 and/or alpha2 subunits, beta2 and/or beta3 subunits, and the gamma2 subunit. Our results suggest receptors expressing alpha3-alpha6, beta1, gamma1, and delta, if present, represent a minor component of functional hypothalamic GABA(A) receptors.
Pyramidal cells in the rat hippocampus commonly show place-related activity, but it has been difficult to understand the factors that govern them. A particularly important question is whether individual cells have identifiable correlates that can be manipulated independently of the correlates of other cells. Recently Tanila et al. examined the activity of small ensembles of hippocampal cells in rats running on a plus-maze with distinct intra- and extramaze cues. When the two sets of cues were rotated 90 degrees in opposite directions, some cells followed the intramaze cues, others followed the extramaze cues, and others &quot;remapped&quot; unpredictably; moreover, all possible combinations were seen within simultaneously recorded ensembles. In the current study, CA1 pyramidal cell population activity was recorded from four rats in a similar paradigm, using a recording system that permitted the analysis of ensembles of 4-70 simultaneously recorded units. The results were consistent with the data from the earlier study in showing an increase in remapping over time and in showing some place fields following one of the defined sets of cues while others remapped. When the possibility of random remapping was controlled for, however, the analysis did not show significant numbers of place fields following both sets of cues simultaneously. Furthermore, all rats initially showed fully concordant responses with all place fields following the local cues. For two rats, this pattern continued until a new configuration was introduced at which time all fields switched to follow the distal cues. Taken together, the results are difficult to reconcile with the hypothesis that individual hippocampal cells encode information about different subsets of cues in the environment.
Understanding central pattern generator (CPG) circuits requires a detailed knowledge of the intrinsic cellular properties of the constituent neurons. These properties are poorly understood in most CPGs because of the complexity resulting from interactions with other neurons of the circuit. This is also the case in the feeding network of the snail, Lymnaea, one of the best-characterized CPG networks. We addressed this problem by isolating the interneurons comprising the feeding CPG in cell culture, which enabled us to study their basic intrinsic electrical and pharmacological cellular properties without interference from other network components. These results were then related to the activity patterns of the neurons in the intact feeding network. The most striking finding was the intrinsic generation of plateau potentials by medial N1 (N1M) interneurons. This property is probably critical for rhythm generation in the whole feeding circuit because the N1M interneurons are known to play a pivotal role in the initiation of feeding cycles in response to food. Plateau potential generation in another cell type, the ventral N2 (N2v), appeared to be conditional on the presence of acetylcholine. Examination of the other isolated feeding CPG interneurons [lateral N1 (N1L), dorsal N2 (N2d), phasic N3 (N3p)] and the modulatory slow oscillator (SO) revealed no significant intrinsic properties in relation to pattern generation. Instead, their firing patterns in the circuit appear to be determined largely by cholinergic and glutamatergic synaptic inputs from other CPG interneurons, which were mimicked in culture by application of these transmitters. This is an example of a CPG system where the initiation of each cycle appears to be determined by the intrinsic properties of a key interneuron, N1M, but most other features of the rhythm are probably determined by network interactions.
Recent studies suggest that novel antipsychotics have positive effects on certain cognitive functions in schizophrenia. The present study investigated this claim by means of saccadic paradigms, which provide a selective index of cognitive function. Thirty-three first-episode schizophrenic patients were randomly assigned to either olanzapine or risperidone treatment and compared with healthy control subjects for three saccadic paradigms. The influence of symptom profile, extrapyramidal symptoms, age, education, gender, hospitalization, and medication dose on cognitive performance was also investigated. Although the two patient groups did not differ from each other in task performance, both patient groups showed substantial problems in inhibitory control of saccades. A high level of education appeared to be protective for this impairment.
Transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) is a new investigational technique used to explore various neural processes and treat a variety of neuropsychiatric illnesses. The most notable advantage of TMS is its ability to directly stimulate the cortex with little effect on intervening tissue. Single-pulse stimulation techniques can measure cortical inhibition, facilitation, connectivity, reactivity, and cortical plasticity, providing valuable insights into the cortical physiology. Repetitive TMS (rTMS) is currently being used to investigate cognitive processes and as a treatment tool in disorders such as depression and schizophrenia. Both TMS and rTMS are safe and well tolerated. The most serious side effect of high-frequency rTMS is seizures. TMS represents an exciting new frontier in neuroscience research, providing insights into the pathophysiology and treatment of various neuropsychiatric disorders.
Working memory is known to involve prefrontal cortex and posterior regions of association cortex (e.g., the inferior temporal lobes). Here, we investigate the potential role of primary somatosensory cortex (SI) in a working memory task with tactile stimuli. Subjects were required to compare the frequencies of two vibrations separated by a retention interval of 1500 msec. Their performance was significantly disrupted when we delivered a pulse of transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) to the contralateral SI early (300 or 600 msec) in the retention interval. TMS did not affect tactile working memory if delivered to contralateral SI late in the retention interval (at 900 or 1200 msec), nor did TMS affect performance if delivered to the ipsilateral SI at any time point. Primary sensory cortex thus seems to act not only as a center for on-line sensory processing but also as a transient storage site for information that contributes to working memory.
The mechanisms establishing and maintaining dendritic spines in the mammalian CNS remain primarily unknown. We report a novel mechanism of neuronal spine plasticity in the developing preoptic area in which estradiol induces prostaglandin-E2 (PGE2) synthesis that in turn increases the density of spine-like processes. Estradiol requires PGE2 synthesis, in vivo and in vitro, and upregulates the dendritic spine protein spinophilin, an effect attenuated by antagonism of the AMPA-kainate receptor. This signaling pathway may involve cross talk between neighboring neurons and astrocytes and appears specific to the preoptic area in that hippocampal neurons responded with an increase in spinophilin to estradiol but not PGE2. Regionally specific mechanisms of estradiol-mediated synaptic plasticity allow for epigenetic control of complex sex-typic behaviors.
The Rho family of small GTPases, key regulators of the actin cytoskeleton in eukaryotic cells from yeast to human, is implicated in the control of neuronal morphology. Guanine nucleotide exchange factors (GEFs) are upstream positive regulators of Rho GTPases and integrate extracellular signaling for appropriate activation of Rho GTPases at specific subcellular regions. Here we describe the identification of a novel Dbl family GEF for Rho GTPases in Homo sapiens and Mus musculus. It contains a tandem Dbl homology-pleckstrin homology domain and FERM domain, characteristic of the plasma membrane proteins linker. This gene, termed FERM domain including RhoGEF (FIR), was abundantly expressed in brain, lung, and testis, as well as embryonic hippocampal and cortical neurons. FIR was found to activate the biochemical pathway specific for Rac1 but not for RhoA or Cdc42. Ectopic expression of FIR in the cortical neurons resulted in significantly shortened neurites and excessive growth cones, presumably mediated by Rac1. These results suggest that FIR may regulate neurite remodeling by mediating the signaling pathways from membrane proteins to Rac.
Synaptotagmin 1, a Ca2+ sensor for fast synaptic vesicle exocytosis, contains two C2 domains that form Ca2+-dependent complexes with phospholipids. To examine the functional importance of Ca2+ binding to the C2A domain of synaptotagmin 1, we studied two C2A domain mutations, D232N and D238N, using recombinant proteins and knock-in mice. Both mutations severely decreased intrinsic Ca2+ binding and Ca2+-dependent phospholipid binding by the isolated C2A domain. Both mutations, however, did not alter the apparent Ca2+ affinity of the double C2 domain fragment, although both decreased the tightness of the Ca2+/phospholipid/double C2 domain complex. When introduced into the endogenous synaptotagmin 1 gene in mice, the D232N and D238N mutations had no apparent effect on morbidity and mortality and caused no detectable alteration in the Ca2+-dependent properties of synaptotagmin 1. Electrophysiological recordings of cultured hippocampal neurons from knock-in mice revealed that neither mutation induced major changes in synaptic transmission. The D232N mutation, however, caused increased synaptic depression during repetitive stimulation, whereas the D238N mutation did not exhibit this phenotype. Our data indicate that Ca2+ binding to the C2A domain of synaptotagmin 1 may be important but not essential, consistent with the finding that the two C2 domains cooperate and may be partially redundant in Ca2+-dependent phospholipid binding. Moreover, although the apparent Ca2+ affinity of the synaptotagmin 1/phospholipid complex is critical, the tightness of the Ca2+/phospholipid complex is not. Our data also demonstrate that subtle changes in the biochemical properties of synaptotagmin 1 can result in significant alterations in synaptic responses.
Mitochondrial dysfunction involving electron transport components is implicated in the pathogenesis of several neurodegenerative disorders and is a critical event in excitotoxicity. Excitatory amino acid L-beta-N-oxalylamino-L-alanine (L-BOAA), causes progressive corticospinal neurodegeneration in humans. In mice, L-BOAA triggers glutathione loss and protein thiol oxidation that disrupts mitochondrial complex I selectively in motor cortex and lumbosacral cord, the regions affected in humans. We examined the factors regulating postinjury recovery of complex I in CNS regions after a single dose of L-BOAA. The expression of thioltransferase (glutaredoxin), a protein disulfide oxidoreductase regulated through AP1 transcription factor was upregulated within 30 min of L-BOAA administration, providing the first evidence for functional regulation of thioltransferase during restoration of mitochondrial function. Regeneration of complex I activity in motor cortex was concurrent with increase in thioltransferase protein and activity, 1 hr after the excitotoxic insult. Pretreatment with alpha-lipoic acid, a thiol delivery agent that protects motor neurons from L-BOAA-mediated toxicity prevented the upregulation of thioltransferase and AP1 activation, presumably by maintaining thiol homeostasis. Downregulation of thioltransferase using antisense oligonucleotides prevented the recovery of complex I in motor cortex and exacerbated the mitochondrial dysfunction in lumbosacral cord, providing support for the critical role for thioltransferase in maintenance of mitochondrial function in the CNS.

Reactive oxygen species (ROS) typically are characterized as molecules involved in neurotoxicity and neurodegeneration. However, recent evidence from both neuronal and nonneuronal cells suggests that ROS also function as small messenger molecules that are normal components of signal transduction cascades during physiological processes. Consistent with this idea, ROS have been shown to be critical for hippocampal long-term potentiation (LTP), a form of synaptic plasticity widely studied as a cellular substrate for learning and memory. On the other hand, ROS also have been shown to be involved in aging-related impairment of LTP. This review discusses the evidence supporting the notion that ROS both contribute to normal LTP and are involved in age-related impairment of LTP. We also discuss possible sources that might be responsible for the production of ROS after the induction of LTP. Finally, we propose a functional ROS continuum to help explain this dichotomy of ROS function in hippocampal LTP.
We report continuous bilateral intracranial pressure (ICP) monitoring immediately after transtentorial herniation in a patient with massive cerebral infarction to: 1) determine presence and time course of compartmental ICP differences, and 2) to study effects of therapy on both hemispheres. A 55-year-old man admitted with watershed infarctions in the left anterior-middle-posterior cerebral arteries distribution. Initial investigations demonstrated highly narrowed left extracranial internal carotid artery. Eight days later he developed unexplained lethargy and anisocoria. Head computerized tomography (CT) showed massive left hemispheric infarction, edema, and midline shift. Bilateral subarachnoid bolts demonstrated equally elevated ICP in both hemispheres. Hyperventilation and osmotic therapy produced near-identical ICP reduction bilaterally with resolution of anisocoria. Later, plateau waves and autonomic instability developed. Shortly before loss of brainstem function, interhemispheric ICP gradients (left greater than right) of 30-40 mm Hg developed. Intracranial pressure did not equalize prior to brain death determination. Bilateral ICP monitoring did not reveal an interhemispheric ICP gradient soon after transtentorial herniation in massive MCA infarction. The presence of interhemispheric ICP gradients in massive stroke remains unproven and further clinical study is necessary.
Progressive neurophysiological changes in the excitability of the pathways that subserved ankle extensor stretch reflexes were observed following midthoracic contusion. The purpose of the present study was to determine the nature and time course of velocity-dependent changes in the excitability of the ankle stretch reflex following T(8) contusion injury. These studies were conducted in adult Sprague-Dawley rats using a 10-g 2.5-cm weight drop onto the exposed thoracic spinal cord (using an NYU injury device and a MASCIS protocol). Velocity-dependent ankle torques and triceps surae EMGs were measured in awake animals over a broad range of rotation velocities (49-612 deg/sec) using instrumentation and protocol previously reported. EMGs and ankle torques were measured before and at weekly intervals following injury. Statistical tests of the data included within group repeated measures ANOVA and between group one-way ANOVA comparisons with time-matched control animals. An alternating pattern of significant increase followed by significant decrease in velocity-dependent ankle torque was observed during the first postinjury month. An increase of 33% in the peak torque and 24% in peak EMG magnitude at 612 deg/sec was observed in the first week. EMG burst amplitudes, that were timed-locked to the dynamic phase of the rotation, were observed to increase and decrease in a manner, which indicated that the changes in torque included stretch-evoked active contractions of the ankle extensors. During the second and third postinjury months, consistent 24-40% increases in the peak torques and 17-107% increases in the EMG magnitudes at the highest velocity were observed. No significant increases in torques were observed in the slowest rotation velocity in these periods.
Disruption of fast axonal transport as a result of traumatic brain injury is characterized by the accumulation of beta-amyloid precursor protein (APP) in axonal swellings. A recent report has suggested a correlation between the size of axonal swellings and survival time up to about 85 h after blunt head injury. The authors of the report concluded that this correlation, in conjunction with other evidence, might be useful in forensic science for timing injuries. To test this hypothesis we have used image analysis software to measure a number of different morphological parameters of axonal swellings. Paraffin sections from 63 cases of fatal head injury were stained with an antibody raised against the N-terminus of APP and counterstained with haematoxylin. Three different measurements were made of the APP-immunoreactive axonal swellings from the corpus callosum: (i) minimum and (ii) maximum Feret diameters, and (iii) area. Linear regression revealed a significant correlation between survival time and the minimum Feret diameter (p &lt; 0.0001) and the area (p &lt; 0.001) of axonal swellings. Our findings are in agreement with the previous study in that there is a significant correlation between axonal swelling size and survival time. However, we would suggest that the large variability in swelling size within individual cases and the heterogeneity of the original trauma seriously compromise the utility of such information in the timing of lesions.
Caspase-3 is a cysteine protease that is strongly implicated in neuronal apoptosis. Activation of caspase-3 may be induced by at least two major initiator pathways: a caspase-8-mediated pathway activated through cell surface death receptors (extrinsic pathway), and a caspase-9-mediated pathway activated by signals from the mitochondria that lead to formation of an apoptosomal complex (intrinsic pathway). In the present studies, we compare the activation of caspases-3, -8, and -9 after lateral fluid-percussion traumatic brain injury (TBI) in rats. Immunoblot analysis identified cleaved forms of caspases-3 and -9, but not caspase-8, at 1, 12, and 48 h after injury. Immunocytochemistry specific for cleaved caspases-3 and -9 revealed their expression primarily in neurons. These caspases were also frequently localized in TUNEL-positive cells, some of which demonstrated morphological features of apoptosis. However, caspases-3 and -9 were also found in neurons that were not TUNEL-positive, and other TUNEL-positive cells did not show activated caspases. In contrast to caspases-3 or -9, caspase-8 expression was only minimally changed by injury. An increase in expression of this caspase was undetectable by immunoblotting methods, and appeared as positive immunostaining restricted to a few cells within the injured cortex. Treatment with the pan-caspase inhibitor z-VAD-fmk at 15 min after TBI improved performance on motor and spatial learning tests. These data suggest that several caspases may be involved in the pathophysiology of TBI and that pan-caspase inhibition strategies may improve neurological outcomes.
Changes in regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF) and glucose metabolism are commonly associated with traumatic brain injury (TBI). Reactive oxygen species (ROS) have been implicated as key contributors to the secondary injury process after TBI. Here, pretreatment with the nitrone radical scavengers (alpha-phenyl-N-tert-butyl nitrone (PBN) or its sulfonated analogue sodium 2-sulfophenyl-N-tert-butyl nitrone (S-PBN) were used as tools to study the effects of ROS on rCBF and glucose metabolism after moderate (2.4-2.6 atm) lateral fluid percussion injury (FPI) in rats. S-PBN has a half-life in plasma of 9 min and does not penetrate the blood-brain barrier (BBB). In contrast, PBN has a half-life of 3 h and readily penetrates the BBB. Regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF) and glucose metabolism was estimated by using (99m)Tc-HMPAO and [(18)F]Fluoro-2-deoxyglucose (FDG) autoradiography, respectively, at 42 min (n = 37) and 12 h (n = 34) after the injury. Regions of interest were the parietal cortex and hippocampus bilaterally. As expected, FPI produced an early (42-min) hypoperfusion in ipsilateral cortex and an increase in glucose metabolism in both cortex and hippocampus, giving way to a state of hypoperfusion and decreased glucose metabolism at 12 h postinjury. On the contralateral side, a hypoperfusion in the cortex and hippocampus was seen at 12 h only, but no significant changes in glucose metabolism. Both S-PBN and PBN attenuated the trauma-induced changes in rCBF and glucose metabolism. Thus, the early improvement in rCBF and glucose metabolism correlates with and may partly mediate the improved functional and morphological outcome after TBI in nitrone-treated rats.
Lentiruses cause neurological disease depending on the virus strain and its neurotropism, yet it remains uncertain to what the impact of infectious virus quantity in the brain early in infection is on the subsequent development of neurological disease or neurovirulence. We investigated the relationship between infectious virus input titer and the resulting neurovirulence, using ex vivo and in vivo assays of feline immunodeficiency virus (FIV)-induced neurovirulence. FIV infection of cell cultures and neonatal cats was performed using 10(2.5) (low-titer) or 10(4.5) (high-titer) 50% tissue culture infectious doses (TCID(50))/ml of the neurovirulent FIV strain, V1CSF. Ex vivo neurotoxicity assays revealed that conditioned medium (CM) from feline macrophages infected with high-titer (P &lt;.001) or low-titer (P &lt;.01) V1CSF induced greater neuronal death than CM from mock-infected cells. In vivo, animals infected intracranially with high-titer V1CSF showed neurodevelopmental delays compared to mock-infected animals (P &lt;.001) and animals infected with low-titer V1CSF (P &lt;.02), concurrent with reduced weight gains and greater depletion of CD4+ cells over a 12-week period. Neuropathological changes, including astrogliosis, macrophage activation, and neuronal damage, were evident in V1CSF-infected animals and were viral titer dependent. In vivo magnetic resonance (MR) spectroscopy and proton nuclear magnetic resonance ((1)H-NMR) spectroscopy of tissue extracts revealed evidence of neuronal injury, including reduced N-acetyl aspartate/creatine (P &lt;.05) and increased trimethylamine/creatine (P &lt;.05) ratios, in the frontal cortex of high-titer V1CSF-infected animals compared to the other groups. T2-weighted MR imaging detected increased signal intensities in the frontal cortex and white matter of V1CSF-infected animals relative to controls, which was more evident as viral titer increased (P &lt;.01). The present findings indicate that lentivirus infectious titers in the brain during the early stages of infection determine the severity of neurovirulence, reflected by neurobehavioral deficits, together with neuroradiological and neuropathological findings of activation of innate immunity and neuronal injury.
Reovirus infection of the central nervous system (CNS) is an important experimental system for understanding the pathogenesis of neurotropic viral infection. Infection of neonatal mice with T3 reoviruses causes lethal encephalitis in which injury results from virus-induced apoptosis. We now show that this apoptosis in vivo is associated with activation of caspase 3, and use neuroblastoma and primary neuronal cultures to identify the cellular pathways involved. Reovirus-induced apoptosis in neuronal cultures is initiated by activation of the tumor necrosis factor (TNF) receptor superfamily death receptors and is inhibited by treatment with soluble death receptors (DRs). The DR-associated initiator caspase, caspase 8, is activated following infection, this activation is inhibited by a cell-permeable peptide inhibitor (IETD-CHO). In contrast to our previous findings in non-neuronal cell lines, reovirus-induced neuronal apoptosis is not accompanied by significant release of cytochrome c from the mitochondria or with caspase 9 activation following infection. This suggests that in neuronal cells, unlike their non-neuronal counterparts, the mitochondria-mediated apoptotic pathway associated with cytochrome c release and caspase 9 activation does not play a significant role in augmenting reovirus-induced apoptosis. Consistent with these results, peptide caspase inhibitors show a hierarchy of efficacy in inhibiting reovirus-induced apoptosis, with inhibitors of caspase 3 &gt; caspase 8 &gt; caspase 9. These studies provide a comprehensive profile of the pattern of virus-induced apoptotic pathway activation in neuronal culture.

Several prostaglandin analogues used for glaucoma treatment cause increased pigmentation of the iris. The purpose of the present study was investigate whether latanoprost, a PGF(2 alpha) analogue, has any effect on the production of endogenous prostaglandins in iridial melanocytes, which could be important in the mechanism leading to increased pigmentation. Bovine and human iridial melanocytes in culture were used for the experiments. Production of endogenous prostaglandins was measured by enzyme immunoassay, and the melanin content was measured spectrophotometrically. In bovine iridial melanocytes, latanoprost acid caused a significant increase of the PGE(2) production, which could be blocked by indomethacin and NS398, indicating an involvement of cyclo-oxygenase 2. In order to study the selectivity of the phenomenon other endogenous substances/drugs were tested, e.g., acetylcholine, carbachol, noradrenaline, neuropeptide Y, substance P and alpha-MSH, but none was found to have any significant effect. Human iridial melanocytes also responded to latanoprost acid with increased production of PGE(2) and in 1 out of 5 individuals increased melanogenesis coincided with increased PGE(2) production. In bovine iridial melanocytes, latanoprost acid did not stimulate melanogenesis. These results indicate that latanoprost acid cause enhanced formation of endogenous prostaglandins that may have auto- and/or paracrine effects in the melanocytes, possibly associated with melanogenesis.
This comment addresses two issues raised by Lu and Sperling [J. Opt. Soc. Am. A 18, 2331 (2001)]. These authors stated that stereomotion (movement of binocular disparity) is processed exclusively by a third-order motion system that involves feature tracking. This comment discusses evidence that clearly shows that stereomotion is processed by a low-level mechanism that does not track features. Lu and Sperling also claimed that motion signals from binocular rivalry have confounded many stereomotion experiments in the past. This comment discusses how stimuli employed in most previous studies of stereomotion processing would not produce rivalry.
A sizeable amount of research literature has failed to demonstrate a stable relationship between self-report and the Rorschach (Exner, 1993). However, principal component first-factor related test-interaction style has been shown to moderate convergence. In this study 78 psychiatric patients completed the Rorschach and the Minnesota Multiphasic Personality Inventory-2 (MMPI-2; Hathaway &amp; McKinley, 1989). Practically no correlation was evident between the MMPI-2 and the Rorschach, measuring similar constructs, in all patients. Patients with similar test-interaction styles demonstrated positive intermethod correlations between both conceptually related and conceptually not directly related test indexes. The same scales were negatively correlated in patients with discordant test-interaction styles, and this difference between test-interaction style groups was significant. It is suggested that first-factor related test-interaction style moderates convergence. It is further suggested that test-interaction style moderates convergence between both conceptually related and conceptually not directly related measures of distress or psychopathology.
ATP-sensitive potassium (K(ATP)) channel openers (KCOs) have been shown to inhibit spontaneous myogenic contractile activity of the urinary bladder, a mechanism hypothesized to underlie detrusor instability and symptoms of overactive bladder. However, the therapeutic utility of KCOs has been limited by a lack of differentiation of bladder versus vascular effects. In this study, we evaluated the in vivo potency and bladder selectivity of (-)-(9S)-9-(3-bromo-4-fluorophenyl)-2,3,5,6,7,9-hexahydrothieno[3,2-b]quinolin-8(4H)-one 1,1-dioxide (A-278637), a novel dihydropyridine KCO, in a pig model of detrusor instability secondary to partial bladder outlet obstruction. For comparison, we profiled two KCOs, ((R)-4-[3,4-dioxo-2-(1,2,2-trimethyl-propylamino)-cyclobut-1-enylamino]-3-ethyl-benzonitrile (WAY-133537) and (S)-N-(4-benzoylphenyl)-3,3,3-trifluro-2-hydroxy-2-methyl-propionamide (ZD6169), reported previously to have improved bladder selectivity in vivo and a calcium channel blocker, nifedipine. Effective doses of A-278637, WAY-133537, ZD6169, and nifedipine to inhibit unstable contraction area under the curve by 35% and to decrease mean arterial pressure by 10% were 4.2 and 12, 109 and 51, 661 and 371, and 136 and 30 nmol/kg i.v., yielding corresponding bladder selectivity ratios of 3, 0.5, 0.6, and 0.2. Therefore, A-278637 was approximately 5- to 6-fold more bladder-selective than the other KCOs and 15-fold more selective than nifedipine, the latter approximately 4.5-fold vascular-selective. The potency of KCOs to inhibit unstable contraction in vivo was accurately predicted by their potency to inhibit spontaneous contractile activity of pig detrusor strips in vitro. These results indicate that A-278637, with enhanced potency and bladder selectivity compared with the other compounds evaluated, could serve as a useful tool in the investigation of smooth muscle K(ATP) channel openers as novel therapeutic agents for the treatment of overactive bladder.
Alterations in the myogenic activity of the bladder smooth muscle are thought to serve as a basis for the involuntary detrusor contractions associated with the overactive bladder. Activation of ATP-sensitive K(+) (K(ATP)) channels has been recognized as a potentially viable mechanism to modulate membrane excitability in bladder smooth muscle. In this study, we describe the preclinical pharmacology of (-)-(9S)-9-(3-bromo-4-fluorophenyl)-2,3,5,6,7,9-hexahydrothieno[3,2-b]quinolin-8(4H)-one 1,1-dioxide (A-278637), a novel 1,4-dihydropyridine K(ATP) channel opener (KCO) that demonstrates enhanced bladder selectivity for the suppression of unstable bladder contractions in vivo relative to other reference KCOs. A-278637 activated K(ATP) channels in bladder smooth muscle cells in a glyburide (glibenclamide)-sensitive manner as assessed by fluorescence membrane potential assays using bis-(1,3-dibutylbarbituric acid)trimethine oxonol (EC(50) = 102 nM) and by whole cell patch clamp. Spontaneous (myogenic) phasic activity of pig bladder strips was suppressed (IC(50) = 23 nM) in a glyburide-sensitive manner by A-278637. A-278637 also inhibited carbachol- and electrical field-stimulated contractions of bladder strips, although the respective potencies were 8- and 13-fold lower compared with inhibition of spontaneous phasic activity. As shown in the accompanying article [Brune ME, Fey TA, Brioni JD, Sullivan JP, Williams M, Carroll WA, Coghlan MJ, and Gopalakrishnan M (2002) J Pharmacol Exp Ther 303:387-394], A-278637 suppressed myogenic contractions in vivo in a model of bladder instability with superior selectivity compared with other KCOs, WAY-133537 [(R)-4-[3,4-dioxo-2-(1,2,2-trimethyl-propylamino)cyclobut-1-enylamino]-3-ethyl-benzonitrile] and ZD6169 [(S)-N-(4-benzoylphenyl)3,3,3-trifluro-2hydroxy-2-methyl-priopionamide]. A-278637 did not interact with other ion channels, including L-type calcium channels or other neurotransmitter receptor systems. The pharmacological profile of A-278637 represents an attractive basis for further investigations of selective K(ATP) channel openers for the treatment of overactive bladder via myogenic etiology.
Excitatory glutamatergic synapses in the hippocampal CA1 region of rats are potently inhibited by purines, including adenosine, ATP, and ATP analogs. Adenosine A(1) receptors are known to mediate at least part of the response to adenine nucleotides, either because adenine nucleotides activate A(1) receptors directly, or activate them secondarily upon the nucleotides' conversion to adenosine. In the present studies, the inhibitory effects of adenosine, ATP, the purportedly stable ATP analog adenosine-5'-O-(3-thio)triphosphate (ATPgammaS), and cyclic AMP were examined in mice with a null mutation in the adenosine A(1) receptor gene. ATPgammaS displaced the binding of A(1)-selective ligands to intact brain sections and brain homogenates from adenosine A(1) receptor wild-type animals. In homogenates, but not in intact brain sections, this displacement was abolished by adenosine deaminase. In hippocampal slices from wild-type mice, purines abolished synaptic responses, but slices from mice lacking functional A(1) receptors showed no synaptic modulation by adenosine, ATP, cAMP, or ATPgammaS. In slices from heterozygous mice the dose-response curve for both adenosine and ATP was shifted to the right. In all cases, inhibition of synaptic responses by purines could be blocked by prior treatment with the competitive adenosine A(1) receptor antagonist 8-cyclopentyltheophylline. Taken together, these results show that even supposedly stable adenine nucleotides are rapidly converted to adenosine at sites close to the A(1) receptor, and that inhibition of synaptic transmission by purine nucleotides is mediated exclusively by A(1) receptors.
Improgan, a nonopioid antinociceptive agent, activates descending, pain-relieving mechanisms in the brain stem, but the receptor for this compound has not been identified. Because cannabinoids also activate nonopioid analgesia by a brain stem action, experiments were performed to assess the significance of cannabinoid mechanisms in improgan antinociception. The cannabinoid CB(1) antagonist N-(piperidin-1-yl)-5-(4-chloro phenyl)-1-(2,4-dichlorophenyl)-4-methyl-1H-pyrazole-3-carboxamide (SR141716A) induced dose-dependent inhibition of improgan antinociception on the tail-flick test after i.c.v. administration in rats. The same treatments yielded comparable inhibition of cannabinoid [R-(+)-(2,3-dihydro-5-methyl-3-[(4-mor pholinyl)methyl]pyrol[1,2,3-de]-1,4-benzoxazin-6-yl)(1-naphthalenyl)methanone monomethanesulfonate, WIN 55,212-2] analgesia. Inhibition of improgan and WIN 55,212-2 antinociception by SR141716A was also observed in Swiss-Webster mice. Radioligand binding studies showed no appreciable affinity of improgan on rat brain, mouse brain, and human recombinant CB(1) receptors, ruling out a direct action at these sites. To test the hypothesis that CB(1) receptors indirectly participate in improgan signaling, the effects of improgan were assessed in mice with a null mutation of the CB(1) gene with and without SR141716A pretreatment. Surprisingly, improgan induced complete antinociception in both CB(1) (-/-) and wild-type control [CB(1) (+/+)] mice. Furthermore, SR141716A inhibited improgan antinociception in CB(1) (+/+) mice, but not in CB(1) (-/-) mice. Taken together, the results show that SR141716A reduces improgan antinociception, but neither cannabinoids nor CB(1) receptors seem to play an obligatory role in improgan signaling. Present and previous studies suggest that Delta(9)-tetrahydrocannabinol may act at both CB(1) and other receptors to relieve pain, but no evidence was found indicating that improgan uses either of these mechanisms. SR141716A will facilitate the study of improgan-like analgesics.
Nootropic drug nefiracetam and related compounds are used in diseases with learning and memory deficits. Recent studies have implicated relationships between learning, memory, and chronic pain. Thus, in the present report, we have studied the effects of nootropic drug nefiracetam on the thermal and mechanical hyperalgesia induced by partial sciatic nerve ligation or streptozotocin treatment in mice. In the thermal paw withdrawal test, p.o., s.c., i.t., and i.c.v. administration of nefiracetam dose dependently reversed the thermal hyperalgesia observed in nerve-injured mice. Nefiracetam (p.o. and i.t.) also significantly reversed the thermal hyperalgesia observed in streptozotocin-induced diabetic mice. In the paw pressure test, p.o. and i.t. administration of nefiracetam dose dependently reversed the mechanical hyperalgesia observed in both nerve-injured and diabetic mice. In contrast, nefiracetam had no effect in sham-operated or control nondiabetic mice in all paradigms. Among other pyrrolidine nootropics (p.o.), aniracetam produced significant analgesic effects. Other analogs also had some, but not significant, analgesic effects. Finally, nefiracetam (p.o.)-induced analgesia in injured mice was not affected by opioid antagonist naloxone (s.c., i.t., and i.c.v.) but was dose dependently inhibited by nicotinic antagonist mecamylamine (i.t. and i.c.v.). The analgesic effect of i.t. nefiracetam was also blocked by i.t. mecamylamine pretreatment. Together, these findings suggest that nefiracetam, a new member of the piracetam group of cognition enhancers, could be a good therapeutic tool against neuropathic pain. We also demonstrate that nefiracetam-induced analgesic action was nonopioid in nature and was due to stimulation of nicotinic cholinergic system at spinal and supraspinal levels.
Nociceptin/orphanin FQ (N/OFQ) is an endogenous opioid-like heptadecapeptide that plays an important role in a variety of physiological functions. N/OFQ and its receptor opioid receptor-like orphan receptor-1 are abundant in the diagonal band of Broca (DBB), a basal forebrain nucleus where the loss of cholinergic neurons is linked to memory and spatial learning deficits. In the whole animal, central injections of N/OFQ have been shown to disrupt spatial learning. In this study, we investigated the basis for these behavioral observations by examining the cellular effects of N/OFQ on chemically identified DBB neurons. Whole cell patch-clamp recordings were performed on enzymatically dissociated DBB neurons. Under voltage-clamp conditions, bath application of N/OFQ (10 pM-1 microM) resulted in a dose-dependent depression of whole cell currents. Single cell reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction analysis identified cholinergic and fewer GABAergic cells to be N/OFQ-responsive. [Nphe(1)]nociceptin-(1-13)-NH(2) and CompB (J-113397) antagonized the N/OFQ response, but both compounds also displayed partial agonist activity. Using a combination of channel blockers we determined that the effects of N/OFQ were mediated via a suite of Ca(2+) (N- and L-type) and Ca(2+)-dependent K(+) (iberiotoxin-sensitive) conductances. In addition, biophysical analysis of voltage subtraction protocols revealed that N/OFQ reduces transient outward and the delayed rectifier K(+) currents. Because N-type and L-type Ca(2+) channels are important in the context of neurotransmitter release, our observations indicate that N/OFQ inhibition of Ca(2+)-dependent conductances in cholinergic neurons would be expected to result in depression of acetylcholine release, which may explain the behavioral actions of N/OFQ in the brain.
Muscarinic acetylcholine receptors (M(1)-M(5)) regulate many key functions in the central and peripheral nervous system. Due to the lack of receptor subtype-selective ligands, however, the physiological roles of individual muscarinic receptor subtypes remain to be determined. In this study, we examined the effects of the muscarinic M(2)/M(4) receptor-preferring agonist [5R-(exo)]-6-[4-butylthio-1,2,5-thiadiazol-3-yl]-1-azabicyclo-[3.2.1]-octane (BuTAC) on serum corticosterone levels in M(2) and M(4) receptor single knockout (KO) and M(2,4) receptor double KO mice. Responses were compared with those obtained with the corresponding wild-type (WT) mice. BuTAC (0.03-0.3 mg/kg s.c.) dose dependently and significantly increased serum corticosterone concentrations in WT mice to 5-fold or greater levels compared with vehicle controls. In muscarinic M(2) and M(2,4) KO mice, however, BuTAC had no significant effect on corticosterone concentrations at doses of 0.1, 0.3, and 1 mg/kg s.c. In both WT and muscarinic M(4) KO mice increases in serum corticosterone concentrations induced by BuTAC (0.1 and 0.3 mg/kg) were not significantly different and were blocked by scopolamine. In summary, the muscarinic M(2,4)-preferring agonist BuTAC had no effect on corticosterone levels in mice lacking functional muscarinic M(2) receptors. These data suggest that the muscarinic M(2) receptor subtype mediates muscarinic agonist-induced activation of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenocortical axis in mice.
Surprising sensory stimuli have been found to attenuate one or two sympathetic discharges in human muscle nerves of some, but not all subjects, an effect suggested to be due to arousal. The aims of the present study were: (1) to provide evidence for or against an arousal mechanism by searching for evidence of habituation, and (2) to investigate if the presence or absence of inhibitory response is reproducible. To this end we recorded peroneal muscle sympathetic nerve activity (MSNA), electrocardiogram (ECG), finger blood pressure and changes of skin electrical resistance in 17 awake healthy subjects, while sensory stimuli consisting of five electrical pulses were delivered to a finger. The electrical pulses were triggered on five consecutive R waves of the ECG after a delay of 200 ms. Dummy stimuli, consisting of five trigger pulses without electrical pulses were used as controls, and the interval between two successive stimuli (real or dummy) was 30 s. On a group basis, the stimuli attenuated two initial and one late MSNA bursts. On an individual basis, significant attenuation of one or two initial bursts occurred in eight subjects, whereas in nine subjects there was no significant inhibition. In nine subjects the experiments were repeated once and in three subjects they were repeated twice. The effects on MSNA were reproducible in 11 of the12 subjects. In the group of subjects without significant MSNA inhibition the stimuli induced a small, transient increase in mean blood pressure, which was not present in the group with significant MSNA inhibition. Heart rate did not change in either group. In conclusion, the inhibitory effect on MSNA of five repeated electrical pulses to a finger is largely similar to that previously shown for one pulse, i.e. there is rapid habituation of the response, compatible with an arousal-induced effect. The inhibitory responsiveness shows marked interindividual differences, which are reproducible over several months and associated with different effects on blood pressure.
Surprising sensory stimuli causing arousal are known to evoke short-lasting activation of human sympathetic activity in skin but not in muscle nerves; anecdotal observations suggest that there may even be an inhibition of muscle sympathetic nerve activity (MSNA). To test this hypothesis we recorded multiunit MSNA in the peroneal nerve in 19 subjects aged 19-71 years, while sensory stimuli, consisting of either an electrical skin stimulus to a finger or a visual flash, were delivered repeatedly with intervals of approximately 20 s. The stimuli were given either 200 or 400 ms after the R wave of the electrocardiogram. Dummy stimuli, consisting of trigger pulses without sensory stimulation served as controls. Electrical skin resistance reductions were monitored from the palm of a hand as electrodermal signs of arousal-induced cutaneous sympathetic activity. On a group basis both types of sensory stimuli attenuated the amplitude of one or two bursts of MSNA, while no such effects occurred after dummy stimuli. Individually, the inhibition was evoked by at least one stimulus modality or delay in 16 subjects whereas in three subjects no significant inhibition occurred. Skin resistance responses were evoked in all subjects. Some subjects responded to one, others to both stimulus modalities, and electrical stimuli were more effective than visual stimuli in causing MSNA inhibition as well as skin resistance reduction. On the other hand, electrodermal signs of arousal were equally common in subjects with and without inhibitory responses. We suggest that the MSNA inhibition evoked by sensory stimuli is an arousal effect which varies markedly between individuals.
We aimed in this study to elucidate the discharge properties and neuronal mechanisms of the dissociation between hypoglossal and phrenic inspiratory activities in decerebrate rats, which had been subjected to neuromuscular blockade and artificially ventilated. The discharge of the hypoglossal nerve and the intracellular activity of hypoglossal motoneurones were monitored during respiration and fictive-swallowing evoked by electrical stimulation of the superior laryngeal nerve, and were compared with the activity of the phrenic nerve. The hypoglossal nerve activity was characterized by its onset preceding the phrenic nerve activity ('pre-I' activity). By manipulating artificial respiration, we could augment the 'pre-I' activity, and could elicit another type of hypoglossal activity decoupled from the phrenic-associated inspiratory bursts ('decoupled' activity). We further scrutinized the correlatives of 'pre-I' and 'decoupled' activities in individual hypoglossal motoneurones. Hypoglossal motoneurones consisted of inspiratory (n = 42), expiratory (n = 18) and non-respiratory (n = 1) neurones and were classified by their swallowing activity into depolarized, hyperpolarized, hyperpolarized-depolarized and unresponsive groups. All of the inspiratory neurones were depolarized in accordance with the 'pre-I' and 'decoupled' activities, and all of the expiratory neurones were hyperpolarized during these activities. Fictive swallowing, which was characterized by its frequent emergence just after the phrenic inspiratory activity, was also evoked just after the 'decoupled' hypoglossal activity, suggesting that this activity may have similar effects on swallowing as the 'overt' inspiratory activity. Such a coupling between 'decoupled' and swallowing activities was also revealed in each motoneurone. These findings suggest that the 'pre-I' and 'decoupled' activities may reflect some internal inspiratory activity of the respiratory centre and that hypoglossal motoneurones may be driven by a distinct group of premotor neurones that possibly play a role in the coordination of respiration and swallowing.
GABA(A) receptor fast desensitization is thought to shape the time course of individual IPSCs. Although GABA(A) receptors also exhibit slower phases of desensitization, the possible role of slow desensitization in modifying synaptic function is poorly understood. In transiently transfected human embryonic kidney (HEK293T) cells, rat alpha1beta3delta and alpha1beta3gamma2L GABA(A) receptors showed distinct desensitization patterns during long (28 s) concentration jumps using a saturating (1 mM) GABA concentration. alpha1beta3gamma2L receptors desensitized extensively (approximately 90%), with four phases (tau(1) approximately 20 ms, tau(2) approximately 400 ms, tau(3) approximately 2 s, tau(4) approximately 10 s), while alpha1beta3delta receptors desensitized slowly and less extensively (approximately 35 %), with one or two slow phases with time constants similar to tau(3) and tau(4) of alpha1beta3gamma2L receptors. To determine the structural basis of subunit-specific desensitization, delta-gamma2L chimera subunits were expressed with alpha1 and beta3 subunits. Replacing the entire N-terminus of the gamma2L subunit with delta subunit sequence did not alter the number of phases or the extent of desensitization. Although extension of delta subunit sequence into transmembrane domain 1 (TM1) abolished the fast and intermediate components of desensitization, the two slow phases still accounted for substantial current loss (approximately 65 %). However, when delta subunit sequence was extended through TM2, the extent of desensitization was significantly decreased and indistinguishable from that of alpha1beta3delta receptors. The importance of TM2 sequence was confirmed by introducing gamma2 subunit TM2 residues into the delta subunit, which significantly increased the extent of desensitization, without introducing either the fast or intermediate desensitization phases. However, introducing delta subunit TM2 sequence into the gamma2L subunit had minimal effect on the rates or extent of desensitization. The results suggest that distinct delta subunit structures are responsible for its unique desensitization properties: lack of fast and intermediate desensitization and small contribution of the slow phases of desensitization. Finally, to investigate the possible role of slow desensitization in synaptic function, we used a pulse train protocol. We observed inhibition of peak current amplitude that depended on the frequency and duration of GABA pulses for receptors exhibiting extensive desensitization, whether fast phases were present or not. The minimally desensitizing alpha1beta3delta receptor exhibited negligible inhibition during pulse trains. Because receptors that desensitized without the fast and intermediate phases showed pulse train inhibition, we concluded that receptors can accumulate in slowly equilibrating desensitized states during repetitive receptor activation. These results may indicate a previously unrecognized role for the slow phases of desensitization for synaptic function under conditions of repeated GABA(A) receptor activation.
Scedosporium apiospermum, the asexual anamorph of Pseudallescheria boydii, is a ubiquitous saprophytic fungus that usually causes cutaneous/subcutaneous infection but may manifest as an invasive disease, often in immunocompromised hosts. Following an extensive literature review, we think that this case represents the first documented report of a primary infection of the spine in an immunocompetent patient. Despite extensive surgical debridement and itraconazole therapy, the patient died of multisystem organ failure of unknown etiology. Our case and three previously reported cases of P. boydii vertebral osteomyelitis highlight the importance of obtaining repeat cultures in patients with culture-negative vertebral osteomyelitis who fail to adequately respond to empiric standard antibacterial and/or antimycobacterial therapy. Combined surgical debridement and antifungal therapy have been required for eradication of P. boydii spinal infections in two previously reported immunocompromised patients, although the optimal antifungal regimen for this infection has not been established.


Plasticity, learning and memory, and neurological disease are exciting topics for students. Discussion around these subjects often results in the consideration of the role of neurogenesis in development, or its involvement in a potential cure for some diseases. We have therefore designed a lab that allows students to experimentally examine how the rate of neurogenesis can be altered by environmental factors. Neuronal cell division in crayfish is identified with fluorescently-labeled BrdU and quantified using conventional or confocal microscopy. Recent studies indicate a conservation of mechanisms that control neurogenesis from insects and crustaceans to mammals. Yet the use of invertebrate models such as crayfish or lobsters has advantages over mammalian models. Invertebrate nervous systems have a simpler organization and larger, identifiable neurons - qualities that make such preparations easier for students to manage. This lab offers many opportunities for student designed experiments and discovery-oriented learning by exploring factors that regulate neurogenesis such as environment, hormones and light. This article illustrates our first experience with the lab, using an experiment designed by our students. We include ideas for expansion of this model and suggestions for avoiding potential pitfalls. It is written in the form of a scientific paper, reporting on a single student experiment, to aid as a teaching tool for future classes.
Both short excerpts from, and full-length presentation of feature films have been used with success in undergraduate instruction. Studies of such use of films has revealed that incorporation of film viewing within courses can promote both content mastery and the development of critical thinking skills. This article discusses and provides examples of successful use of two methods that may be used to incorporate a variety of full-length feature films into neuroscience instruction. One, the &quot;neuro-cinema&quot; pairs the presentation of a film featuring extensive neuroscience content with primary literature reading assignments, group discussion and writing exercises. The second, a neuroscience film series, features group discussion of movies of perhaps more limited relevance to neuroscience. An additional goal of this article is provide the reader with initial resources for the selection of potential film titles for use in neuroscience education. Three extensive tables are included to provide a wide range of title suggestions appropriate for use in activities such as the neuro-cinema, the neuroscience film series, or for more limited use as short &quot;clips&quot; in classroom instruction.
YM992 ((S)-2-[[(7-fluoroindan-4-yl)oxy]methyl]morpholine) monohydrochloride is a novel antidepressant with selective serotonin (5-hydroxytryptamine, 5-HT) re-uptake inhibition and 5-HT(2A) receptor antagonistic activity. The effects of YM992 and two selective 5-HT re-uptake inhibitors (SSRIs) were studied in a marble-burying behavior test as a model of an obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD) in mice at doses of 5, 10 and 15 mg/kg, i.p. YM992 and fluoxetine significantly inhibited marble-burying behavior at a dose of 15 mg/kg (i.p.) without affecting spontaneous locomotor activities. Citalopram also significantly inhibited the behavior at doses of 5, 10 and 15 mg/kg (i.p.) without affecting spontaneous locomotor activities. These results suggest that YM992, as well as SSRIs, may exhibit anti-OCD activity in addition to an antidepressive effect in clinical use.
The weakness in myasthenia gravis (MG) is mediated by autoantibodies against adult muscle acetylcholine receptors (AChR) at the neuromuscular junction; most of these antibodies also bind to fetal AChR, which is present in the thymus. In rare cases, babies of mothers with MG, or even of asymptomatic mothers, develop a severe developmental condition, arthrogryposis multiplex congenita, caused by antibodies that inhibit the ion channel function of the fetal AChR while not affecting the adult AChR. Here we show that these fetal AChR inhibitory antibodies are significantly more common in females sampled after pregnancy than in those who present before pregnancy, suggesting that they may be induced by the fetus. Moreover, we were able to clone high-affinity combinatorial Fab antibodies from thymic cells of two mothers with MG who had babies with arthrogryposis multiplex congenita. These Fabs were highly specific for fetal AChR and did not bind the main immunogenic region that is common to fetal and adult AChR. The Fabs show strong biases to VH3 heavy chains and to a single Vkappa1 light chain in one mother. Nevertheless, they each show extensive intraclonal diversification from a highly mutated consensus sequence, consistent with antigen-driven selection in successive steps. Collectively, our results suggest that, in some cases of MG, initial immunization against fetal AChR is followed by diversification and expansion of B cells in the thymus; maternal autoimmunity will result if the immune response spreads to the main immunogenic region and other epitopes common to fetal and adult AChR.
The products of the blood clotting reaction, eg, thrombin and fibrinopeptides, have various proinflammatory activities and are suggested to modulate inflammation. The macrophage expression of tissue factor (TF), the clotting initiator, has been shown to cause clotting in the site of the delayed-type hypersensitivity reaction, a cellular immune response. However, the mechanism of the clotting induction in humoral immune response has been insufficiently studied. Therefore, the Arthus reaction, a model of immune-complex diseases, was produced in monkey skin that was examined for TF expression and fibrin deposition. TF antigen was positive on most of polymorphonuclear leukocytes, which were the main leukocytes in the lesions and were identified as neutrophils with an anti-neutrophil-elastase mAb. TF mRNA was detected in neutrophils by in situ hybridization using TF RNA probes, indicating de novo TF synthesis by the leukocytes. Specific binding of activated factor VII onto TF-positive neutrophils suggested the activity of neutrophil TF to trigger the cascade reaction of clotting. The number of TF-positive neutrophils were correlated in time with the intensity and extent of fibrin deposition that was visualized with an mAb specific for fibrin and peaked in 24 hours. Interestingly, the fibrin deposit was partially positive for an mAb specific for neutrophil elastase-digested fibrin. These results show in vivo evidence of a close relationship between neutrophils and both clotting and fibrinolysis in the Arthus reaction and may suggest that these neutrophil functions contribute to the pathogenesis of this hypersensitivity inflammation.


A tissue model composed of erythrocyte ghosts was developed to study the effects of compartmentation on the MR signal acquired from biological tissues. This simple and flexible model offers control over the biophysical parameters that contribute to multicomponent signals arising from cellular systems. Cell density, size, intra- and extracellular composition, and membrane permeability can be independently altered. The effects of cell density and cell size on water diffusion properties were assessed. The data demonstrate non-monoexponential water diffusion in ghost cell suspensions of 17-67% cell density. Data were analysed with the widely employed two-compartment (biexponential) model, and with a two-compartment model that accounted for exchange between compartments. Water exchange between the intra- and extracellular compartments appeared to be significant over the range of diffusion times studied (7-35 ms). The biexponential fit to the ghost data appeared to be underparameterised as the ADCs and relative fractions of the fast and slow components were dependent on the experimental acquisition parameters, specifically the diffusion time. However, both analysis methods proved effective at tracking changes in the ghost model when it was perturbed. This was demonstrated with cell density variation, cell swelling and shrinkage experiments, and reduction of membrane water permeability using a water channel blocker (pCMBS). We anticipate that this model system could be used to investigate compartmental diffusion effects to simulate a range of pathologies, especially ischemic stroke.
The interplay of fibroblast growth factor (FGF) and nodal signaling in the Xenopus gastrula marginal zone specifies distinct populations of presumptive mesodermal cells. Cells in the vegetal marginal zone, making up the presumptive leading edge mesoderm, are exposed to nodal signaling, as evidenced by SMAD2 activation, but do not appear to be exposed to FGF signaling, as evidenced by the lack of MAP kinase (MAPK) activation. However, in the animal marginal zone, activation of both SMAD2 and MAPK occurs. The differential activation of these two signaling pathways in the marginal zone results in the vegetal and animal marginal zones expressing different genes at gastrulation, and subsequently having different fates, with the vegetal marginal zone contributing to ventral mesoderm (e.g. ventral blood island) and the animal marginal zone giving rise to dorsal fates (e.g. notochord and somite). We report here the cloning of a cDNA encoding a novel nuclear protein, Xmenf, that is expressed in the vegetal marginal zone. The expression of Xmenf is induced by nodal signaling and negatively regulated by FGF signaling. Results from animal cap studies indicate that Xmenf plays a role in the pathway of ventral mesoderm induction in the vegetal marginal zone.
A hypothetical neurobiological model of Freud's architecture of the mind is presented in an attempt to unify concepts and data derived from molecular biology (e.g., genomic imprinting), systems neuroscience (e.g., neuroanatomochemical circuitries), evolutionary psychology (e.g., human mating strategies), and Freudian psychology. The model posits that events related to genomic imprinting can be regulated in a tissue-specific manner over the course of neural development such that imprinting along the matriline would favor the development of corticostriatal structures whereas imprinting along the patriline would favor the development of limbic-subcortical structures. A neuropsychological analysis of the brain requirements for successful mating presumably would put an evolutionary premium on the corticostriatal system (matrilineal) in men and limbic-subcortical systems (patrilineal) in women. Additionally, the model emphasizes that the ego and the super-ego of Freudian psychology are dependent on corticostriatal mechanisms (matriline-related), while the id is dependent on brainstem processes (patriline-related). It is hoped that the model herein presented has heuristic value for a rapprochement of psychoanalysis and neurobiology.
Viral vectors afford the capability of genetically manipulating the expression of neurotransmitters, neuropeptides, hormones, and their receptors in specific brain sites of adult animals of any species. Hence, they are a powerful tool for investigating the neurochemistry underlying complex cognitive processes and behaviors. Here we discuss how the recombinant adeno-associated virus (rAAV) can be engineered for use in neurobehavioral studies, techniques for site-specific delivery of vector into the brain, characterization of expression profiles, and biosafety issues. Finally, we discuss issues of experimental design and interpretation of behavioral results in viral vector studies.
The use of viral vectors as agents for gene delivery provides a direct approach to manipulate gene expression in the mammalian central nervous system (CNS). The present article describes in detail the methodology for the injection of viral vectors, in particular adeno-associated virus (AAV) vectors, into the adult rat brain and spinal cord to obtain reproducible and successful transduction of neural tissue. Surgical and injection procedures are based on the extensive experience of our laboratory to deliver viral vectors to the adult rat CNS and have been optimized over the years. First, a brief overview is presented on the use and potential of viral vectors to treat neurological disorders or trauma of the CNS. Next, methods to deliver AAV vectors to the rat brain and spinal cord are described in great detail with the intent of providing a practical guide to potential users. Finally, some data on the experimental outcomes following AAV vector-mediated gene transfer to the adult rat CNS are presented as is a brief discussion on both the advantages and limitations of AAV vectors as tools for somatic gene transfer.
The Eph family of receptor tyrosine kinases and their cell-presented ligands, the ephrins, are frequently overexpressed in a wide variety of cancers, including breast, small-cell lung and gastrointestinal cancers, melanomas, and neuroblastomas. In particular, one Eph family member, EphA2, is overexpressed in many cancers, including 40% of breast cancers. EphA2 can also transform breast epithelial cells in vitro to display properties commonly associated with the development of metastasis. Remarkably, the oncogenic properties of EphA2 contravene traditional dogma with regard to the oncogenic properties of a growth factor and its receptor tyrosine kinase: while stimulation of EphA2 by its ligand (ephrin-A1) results in EphA2 autophosphorylation, the stimulation reverses the oncogenic transformation. As will be discussed in this review, the apparent dependence of oncogenicity on the dephosphorylated state of EphA2 most probably reflects the unique nature of Eph signaling. In particular, oncogenecity may depend on the capacity of unactivated EphA2 to interact with a variety of signaling molecules. As well as acting in oncogenic transformation, a growing body of evidence supports the importance of the concerted actions of ephrins and Eph molecules in tumor angiogenesis. Genetic studies, using targeted mutagenesis in mice, reveal that ephrin-B1, ephrin-B2, and EphB4 are essential for the normal morphogenesis of the embryonic vasculature into a sophisticated network of arteries, veins, and capillaries. Initial studies indicate that these molecules are also angiogenic in tumors, and as such represent important new targets for the development of chemotherapeutic treatments.
Lysophosphatidic acid (LPA), a bioactive lipid produced by several cell types including postmitotic neurons and activated platelets, is thought to be involved in various biological processes, including brain development. Three cognate G protein-coupled receptors encoded by lpa(1)/lp(A1)/Edg-2/Gpcr26, lpa(2)/lp(A2)/Edg-4, and lpa(3)/lp(A3)/Edg-7 mediate the cellular effects of LPA. We have previously shown that deletion of lpa(1) in mice results in craniofacial dysmorphism, semilethality due to defective suckling behavior, and generation of a small fraction of pups with frontal hematoma. To further investigate the role of these receptors and LPA signaling in the organism, we deleted lpa(2) in mice. Homozygous knockout (lpa(2)((-/-))) mice were born at the expected frequency and displayed no obvious phenotypic abnormalities. Intercrosses allowed generation of lpa(1)((-/-)) lpa(2)((-/-)) double knockout mice, which displayed no additional phenotypic abnormalities relative to lpa(1)((-/-)) mice except for an increased incidence of perinatal frontal hematoma. Histological analyses of lpa(1)((-/-)) lpa(2)((-/-)) embryonic cerebral cortices did not reveal obvious differences in the proliferating cell population. However, many LPA-induced responses, including phospholipase C activation, Ca(2+) mobilization, adenylyl cyclase activation, proliferation, JNK activation, Akt activation, and stress fiber formation, were absent or severely reduced in embryonic fibroblasts derived from lpa(1)((-/-)) lpa(2)((-/-)) mice. Except for adenylyl cyclase activation [which was nearly abolished in lpa(1)((-/-)) fibroblasts], these responses were only partially affected in lpa(1)((-/-)) and lpa(2)((-/-)) fibroblasts. Thus, although LPA(2) is not essential for normal mouse development, it does act redundantly with LPA(1) to mediate most LPA responses in fibroblasts.
Presenilin 1 (PS1) is a multitransmembrane protein well known for being mutated in most cases of familial Alzheimer's disease. Although its pathological effect is clear, its biological functions are not yet fully understood, but it appears to be involved in development and apoptosis. To investigate the role of PS1 in developmental processes we have studied the expression and proteolytic processing of this protein in the developing rat retina. PS1 appears to be developmentally regulated in the retina, and the pattern of PS1 immunoreactivity is consistent with a role in retinal lamination and pattern formation. Interestingly, no correlation was observed between PS1-positive cells and cells undergoing programmed cell death, suggesting that PS1 does not play a role in apoptosis occurring during this period. Moreover, we observed a change in the pattern of PS1 proteolytic fragments suggestive of a novel alternative cleavage site in the PS1 molecule.
The G protein specificity of multiple signaling pathways of the dopamine-D2S (short form) receptor was investigated in GH4ZR7 lactotroph cells. Activation of the dopamine-D2S receptor inhibited forskolin-induced cAMP production, reduced BayK8644- activated calcium influx, and blocked TRH-mediated p42/p44 MAPK phosphorylation. These actions were blocked by pretreatment with pertussis toxin (PTX), indicating mediation by G(i/o) proteins. D2S stimulation also decreased TRH-induced MAPK/ERK kinase phosphorylation. TRH induced c-Raf but not B-Raf activation, and the D2S receptor inhibited both TRH-induced c-Raf and basal B-Raf kinase activity. After PTX treatment, D2S receptor signaling was rescued in cells stably transfected with individual PTX-insensitive Galpha mutants. Inhibition of adenylyl cyclase was partly rescued by Galpha(i)2 or Galpha(i)3, but Galpha(o) alone completely reconstituted D2S-mediated inhibition of BayK8644-induced L-type calcium channel activation. Galpha(o) and Galpha(i)3 were the main components involved in D2S-mediated p42/44 MAPK inhibition. In cells transfected with the carboxyl-terminal domain of G protein receptor kinase to inhibit Gbetagamma signaling, only D2S-mediated inhibition of calcium influx was blocked, but not inhibition of adenylyl cyclase or MAPK. These results indicate that the dopamine-D2S receptor couples to distinct G(i/o) proteins, depending on the pathway addressed, and suggest a novel Galpha(i)3/Galpha(o)-dependent inhibition of MAPK mediated by c-Raf and B-Raf-dependent inhibition of MAPK/ERK kinase.
Our understanding of the molecular underpinnings of human cognition has been greatly aided by the convergent synergy of clinical, genetic, and signaling research. By identifying the mutated genes that give rise to syndromes of mental retardation or cognitive defects in patients, and by placing the associated gene products within signaling networks, researchers are piecing together how learning occurs and how memories are formed and sustained.
Despite important inroads into the molecular pathology of Alzheimer disease, effective long-term treatment for the condition remains elusive. Among the many gene products that are recognized as factors in the disease is apolipoprotein ( (apoE). The risk that specific isoforms of apoE pose with regard to Alzheimer Disease clearly varies, and so the roles that apoE plays in the brain will be crucial to a full understanding of the disease and to efforts to develop effective therapies.

Aberrations in neural signaling, converging to and diverging from oxidative metabolism and blood supply, contribute to the initiation and maintenance of inflammatory responses, neuronal degeneration, and age-related cognitive decline in Alzheimer's disease (AD). Hypoxia/ischemia triggers phospholipase A2, leading to the accumulation of free arachidonic and docosahexaenoic acids (AA, DHA), as well as that of lysophospholipids. Some of these bioactive lipid messengers in turn give rise to several downstream lipid messengers, such as platelet-activating factor (PAF) and ecosanoids (prostaglandins and leukotrienes). Eicosanoid synthesis is highly regulated in hypoxia and in reperfusion subsequent to ischemia. As one of the consequences, mitochondrial function is disrupted and reactive oxygen species (ROS) both contribute to the expansion of cellular inflammatory responses and reduce the expression of genes required to maintain synaptic structure and function. On the other hand, pro-inflammatory genes are up-regulated. One of these, the inducible cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2), along with oxygen-starved mitochondria, comprise the major sources of ROS in the brain during hypoxia, ischemia, and reperfusion. One outcome is a sustained metabolic stress that drives progressive dysfunction, apoptosis and/or necrosis, and brain cell death. How hypoxia modulates oxygen-sensitive gene expression is not well understood. Pro-inflammatory gene families that contribute to neurodegeneration are transiently activated in part by the heterodimeric oxygen-sensitive DNA-binding proteins nuclear factor for kappa B (NF-kappaB) and hypoxia-inducible factor-alpha (HIF-1alpha). Here the authors summarize current studies supporting the hypothesis that synaptically-derived lipid messengers play significant roles in ischemic stroke and that hypoxia is an important contributor to the onset and progression of AD neurodegeneration.
Bimanual coordination tasks form an essential part of our behaviour. One brain region thought to be involved in bimanual coordination is the supplementary motor area (SMA). We used repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation (rTMS) at 1 Hz for 5 min to create a temporary virtual lesion of the rostral portion of the human SMA immediately prior to performance of a goal-directed bimanual coordination task. In two control conditions, participants underwent sham stimulation or stimulation over the primary motor cortex (MI). The experimental task was to open a drawer with the left hand, catch a ball with the right hand, and reinsert the ball into the drawer through an aperture just big enough for the ball to pass through, again with the right hand. Hence, the actions of one hand depend upon the actions of the other. We calculated time intervals between the successive component actions of one hand (unimanual intervals) and actions of both hands (bimanual intervals) and analyzed these intervals separately. Interestingly, none of the unimanual intervals were affected by the rTMS, but the variability of a critical bimanual interval--the time between the left hand opening the drawer and the right hand starting to move to catch the ball--was increased by rTMS over the rostral parts of the SMA. No such effect was seen following rTMS over MI or after sham rTMS. Our results suggest that the rostral parts of the SMA play an important role in aspects of functional bimanual tasks, which involve tight temporal coordination between different motor actions of the two hands.
Cortical and spinal somatosensory evoked potentials (SEP) were recorded in healthy individuals following stimulation of digits I, III, and V with an intensity below discomfort level. Peak latency of the earliest cortical negativity (N1) was found to be the most consistent and easily measured parameter, whereas a spinal potential (Cv) was not elicited in all subjects. Descriptive statistics, Student's paired t-test as well as simple and multiple regression, were used for computer analysis of N1 and Cv peak latencies and central conduction time. The results show a strong correlation between the peak latencies of spinal and cortical potentials and height and arm length of the subjects, with a mild but significant correlation with age. Using multiple regression for N1 and Cv latencies significantly improved the standard deviation. The data may provide reference values for neurophysiological evaluation of patients with cervical spine disorders.
Consecutive 60-min microdialysis samples were taken from the tibial anterior muscle in 11 healthy subjects and 4 patients with mitochondrial myopathy before (2-3 samples) and after (3-4 samples, 2 controls and 1 patient excluded) sustained isometric foot dorsiflexions. Before exercise, mean concentrations of lactate, pyruvate, hypoxanthine, urate, aspartate, and glutamate did not significantly differ between controls and patients. After exercise, the controls showed significantly increased concentrations of lactate, pyruvate, and urate, decreased hypoxanthine, and no change in aspartate and glutamate. Similar findings were observed in the patients. Plasma lactate was unchanged. Exercise-induced increase in integrated electromyogram amplitude and rated subjective fatigue were correlated to increased post-exercise lactate concentrations, with no obvious difference between the groups. Microdialysis of skeletal muscle allows the detection and monitoring of biochemical changes in the interstitial space. With the exercise protocol used, however, it was not possible to demonstrate any biochemical difference between healthy controls and patients with mitochondrial myopathy.

We examined how the relationship between neuronal activity and behavior evolved over time during a motion-detection task. Recording from two regions of visual cortex that process motion, the middle temporal (MT) and ventral intraparietal (VIP) areas, we used the time it took subjects to detect a motion stimulus to evaluate the dynamics of the underlying neuronal signals. Single-neuron activity was correlated with stimulus detection and reaction time (RT) in both areas. The rising edge of the population response from both areas was highly predictive of RT using a simple threshold-detection model. The time course of the population responses, however, differed between MT and VIP. For MT, the onset of the neuronal response was relatively constant, whereas for VIP the onset of the neuronal responses increased with RT. In contrast to previous studies, we found that single neurons were not reliable detectors of the motion signal when constrained by realistic detection times.
Homeobox genes comprise a large and essential family of developmental regulators that are vital for all aspects of growth and differentiation. Although many studies have reported their deregulated expression in cancer, few studies have established direct functional roles for homeobox genes in carcinogenesis. Nonetheless, most cases of deregulated homeobox gene expression in cancer conform to a simple rule: those that are normally expressed in undifferentiated cells are upregulated in cancer, whereas those that are normally expressed in differentiated tissues are downregulated in cancer.
Myasthenia gravis is a relatively rare neurological disease that is associated with loss of the acetylcholine receptors that initiate muscle contraction. This results in muscle weakness, which can be life-threatening. The story of how both the physiological basis of the disease and the role of acetylcholine-receptor-specific antibodies were determined is a classic example of the application of basic science to clinical medicine, and it has provided a model for defining other antibody-mediated disorders of the peripheral and central nervous systems.
For many centuries, Spain and Portugal were occupied by various nations. The consequent mixing of cultures formed a unique environment in which to do science.
This study introduces information-geometric measures to analyze neural firing patterns by taking not only the second-order but also higher-order interactions among neurons into account. Information geometry provides useful tools and concepts for this purpose, including the orthogonality of coordinate parameters and the Pythagoras relation in the Kullback-Leibler divergence. Based on this orthogonality, we show a novel method for analyzing spike firing patterns by decomposing the interactions of neurons of various orders. As a result, purely pairwise, triple-wise, and higher-order interactions are singled out. We also demonstrate the benefits of our proposal by using several examples.
The present multidisciplinary study examined nigrostriatal dopamine and striatal amino acid transmission in the R6/1 line of transgenic Huntington's disease (HD) mice expressing exon 1 of the HD gene with 115 CAG repeats. Although the number of tyrosine hydroxylase-positive neurons was not reduced and nigrostriatal connectivity remained intact in 16-week-old R6/1 mice, the size of tyrosine hydroxylase-positive neurons in the substantia nigra was reduced by 15%, and approximately 30% of these cells exhibited aggregated huntingtin. In addition, using in vivo microdialysis, we found that basal extracellular striatal dopamine levels were reduced by 70% in R6/1 mice compared to their wild-type littermates. Intrastriatal perfusion with malonate in R6/1 mice resulted in a short-lasting, attenuated increase in local dopamine release compared to wild-type mice. Furthermore, the size of the malonate-induced striatal lesion was 80% smaller in these animals. Taken together, these findings suggest that a functional deficit in nigrostriatal dopamine transmission may contribute to the behavioral phenotype and the resistance to malonate-induced neurotoxicity characteristic of R6/1 HD mice.
Disturbances in biological rhythms pose a major disease problem, not the least in the aging population. Experimental sleeping sickness, caused by Trypanosoma brucei brucei, in rats constitutes a unique and robust chronic model for studying mechanisms of such disturbances. The spontaneous postsynaptic activity was recorded in slice preparations of the suprachiasmatic nuclei (SCN), which contain the master pacemaker for circadian rhythms in mammals, from trypanosome-infected rats. The excitatory synaptic events, which in normal rats show a daily variation, were reduced in frequency, while the inhibitory synaptic events did not significantly differ. This indicates selective disturbances in glutamate receptor-mediated neurotransmission in the SCN. Treatment with interferon-gamma in combination with lipopolysaccharide, which has synergistic actions with cytokines, and tumor necrosis factor-alpha similarly caused a reduction in excitatory synaptic SCN activity. We suggest that changes in the synaptic machinery of SCN neurons play an important pathogenetic role in sleeping sickness, and that proinflammatory cytokines can mimic these changes.
Mutations in presenilin-1 (PS1) can cause early onset familial Alzheimer's disease (AD). Studies of cultured cells and mice expressing mutant PS1 suggest that PS1 mutations may promote neuronal dysfunction and degeneration by altering cellular calcium homeostasis. On the other hand, it has been suggested that age-related damage to DNA in neurons may be an important early event in the pathogenesis of AD. We now report that PC12 cells and primary hippocampal neurons expressing mutant PS1 exhibit increased sensitivity to death induced by DNA damage. The hypersensitivity to DNA damage is correlated with increased intracellular Ca(2+) levels, induction of p53, upregulation of the Ca(2+)-dependent protease m-calpain, and mitochondrial membrane depolarization. Moreover, activation of caspase-12, an endoplasmic reticulum (ER)-associated caspase, is greatly increased in cells expressing mutant PS1. DNA damage-induced death of cells expressing mutant PS1 was attenuated by inhibitors of calpains I and II, by an intracellular Ca(2+) chelator, by the protein synthesis inhibitor cycloheximide, and by a broad-spectrum caspase inhibitor, but not by an inhibitor of caspase-1. Agents that release Ca(2+) from the ER increased the vulnerability of cells expressing mutant PS1 to DNA damage. By promoting ER-mediated apoptotic proteolytic cascades, PS1 mutations may sensitize neurons to DNA damage.
The effect of chronic ethanol consumption during pregnancy and lactation on thyrotropin releasing hormone (TRH) metabolism was investigated in the hypothalamus and limbic areas of female rats and their weaned pups. Pregnant female rats received ethanol or isocaloric glucose solution during pregnancy either alone, or also during the 3 weeks of lactation. Thyrotropin (TSH) and corticosterone levels were measured in serum; TRH and TRH-gly concentrations were determined in hypothalamus, hippocampus, n.accumbens, frontal cortex and amygdala of dams and pups at 21 days after parturition. Ethanol or glucose consumption during pregnancy and lactation produced a decrease in TSH levels compared with control animals fed at libitum; water replacement during lactation normalized TSH levels only in glucose-fed dams. Pups from ethanol or pair-fed dams showed low weight and increased TSH levels compared with normal rats. Variations in TRH metabolism were detected in limbic areas. Chronic ethanol caused a decrease in the levels of TRH in the hippocampus and frontal cortex of dams. In contrast, glucose chronic ingestion increased TRH content specifically in n.accumbens and amygdala of dams. Most of the variations in TRH content of limbic areas of pups were not specific for glucose or ethanol treatment and correlated with the deleterious effect of the mother's thyroid condition, although some differences were observed depending on pup's gender. These results support the involvement of TRHergic neurons in the limbic system of the female rat exposed to alcohol or glucose during pregnancy and lactation.
Many experiments in the past have demonstrated the requirement of de novo gene expression during memory formation. In contrast to the initial reductionistic view that genes relevant to learning and memory would be easily found and would provide a simple key to understand this brain function, it is becoming apparent that the genetic contribution to memory is complex. Previous approaches have been focused on individual genes or genetic pathways and failed to address the massively parallel nature of genome activities and collective behavior of the genes that ultimately control the molecular mechanisms underlying brain function. In view of the broad variety of genes and the cross talk of genetic pathways involved in this regulation, only gene expression profiles may reflect the complete behavior of regulatory pathways. In this review we illustrate how DNA microarray-based gene expression profiling may help to dissect and analyze the complex mechanisms involved in gene regulation during the acquisition and storage of memory in the mammalian brain.
Traumatic brain injury (TBI) elicits a complex sequence of putative autodestructive and neuroprotective cellular cascades. It is hypothesized that the genomic responses of cells in the injured brain serve as the basis for these cascades. Traditional methods for analyzing differential gene expression following brain trauma demonstrate that immediate early genes, cytokines, transcription factors, and neurotrophic factors can all participate in the brain's active and directed response to injury, and may do so concurrently. It is this complexity and multiplicity of interrelated molecular mechanisms that has demanded new methods for comprehensive and parallel evaluation of putative as well as novel gene targets. Recent advances in DNA microarray technology have enabled the simultaneous evaluation of thousands of genes and the subsequent generation of massive amounts of biological data relevant to CNS injury. This emerging technology can serve to further current knowledge regarding recognized molecular cascades as well as to identify novel molecular mechanisms that occur throughout the post-traumatic period. The elucidation of the complex alterations in gene expression underlying the pathological sequelae following TBI is of central importance in the design of future therapeutic agents.
Gene profiling in the central nervous system presents unique challenges due to the unprecedented heterogeneity of cells, systems and functions in time and space. We have employed a multidisciplinary approach using whole cell patch clamp recording and transcriptional analysis to define the genomic basis of trophin-induced hippocampal synaptic plasticity. Transcriptional analysis of single cells by linear amplification of antisense RNA has added a new dimension of sensitivity and selectivity to the study of the complex and heterogeneous population of neurons. We describe different gene expression profiling techniques that offer novel approaches to monitoring thousands of genes in parallel, fostering identification of circuits involved in learning and memory.
DNA microarrays have been used in applications ranging from the assignment of gene function to analytical uses in prognostics. However, the detection sensitivity, cross hybridization, and reproducibility of these arrays can affect experimental design and data interpretation. Moreover, several technologies are available for fabrication of oligonucleotide microarrays. We review these technologies and performance attributes and, with data sets generated from human brain RNA, present statistical tools and methods to analyze data quality and to mine and visualize the data. Our data show high reproducibility and should allow an investigator to discern biological and regional variability from differential expression. Although we have used brain RNA as a model system to illustrate some of these points, the oligonucleotide arrays and methods employed in this study can be used with cell lines, tissue sections, blood, and other fluids. To further demonstrate this point, we provide data generated from total RNA sample sizes of 200 ng.
Recent developments in gene array technologies, specifically cDNA microarray platforms, have made it easier to try to understand the constellation of gene alterations that occur within the CNS. Unlike an organ that is comprised of one principal cell type, the brain contains a multiplicity of both neuronal (e.g., pyramidal neurons, interneurons, and others) and noneuronal (e.g., astrocytes, microglia, oligodendrocytes, and others) populations of cells. An emerging goal of modern molecular neuroscience is to sample gene expression from similar cell types within a defined region without potential contamination by expression profiles of adjacent neuronal subtypes and noneuronal cells. At present, an optimal methodology to assess gene expression is to evaluate single cells, either identified physiologically in living preparations, or by immunocytochemical or histochemical procedures in fixed cells in vitro or in vivo. Unfortunately, the quantity of RNA harvested from a single cell is not sufficient for standard RNA extraction methods. Therefore, exponential polymerase-chain reaction (PCR) based analyses and linear RNA amplifications, including a newly developed terminal continuation (TC) RNA amplification methodology, have been used in combination with single cell microdissection procedures to enable the use of cDNA microarray analysis within individual populations of cells obtained from postmortem brain samples as well as the brains of animal models of neurodegeneration.
The mu-opioid receptor (OR) is involved in several aspects of female reproductive neuroendocrinology, such as the control of gonadotropin release and the display of lordosis behavior. Even though the neuroendocrine events modulated by mu-ORs are steroid hormone-dependent, few studies have shown how steroid hormones such as estrogen and/or progesterone can affect mu-OR function. Therefore, the present study investigated if in vivo estrogen or estrogen plus progesterone treatment of ovariectomized (OVX) rats affects mu-OR coupling to its G proteins. We used autoradiographic analysis of agonist-stimulated [(35)S]-GTPgammaS binding, in which brain sections were incubated in the presence or absence of the mu-OR agonist [D-Ala(2), N-Me-Phe(4), Gly(2)ol]-enkephalin (DAMGO). Film images were quantified using calibrated [(14)C] standards. Analysis was performed in steroid-responsive hypothalamic regions such as the medial preoptic area (mPOA) and the ventromedial nucleus of the hypothalamus, as well as in non-hypothalamic brain regions. Treatment with estrogen, alone or with progesterone, significantly increased DAMGO-stimulated [(35)S]-GTPgammaS binding in the mPOA when compared to control OVX animals. In addition, estrogen increased mu-OR coupling in the caudate putamen. Steroid treatment had no effect on either basal or DAMGO-stimulated binding in the other brain regions examined. These findings suggest that estrogen modulates mu-OR function in a brain region-specific fashion. This could have important implications in terms of how these hormones synchronize reproductive behavior and gonadotropin release.
Working memory is affected by items stored and the relations between them. However, separating these factors has been difficult, because increased items usually accompany increased associations/relations. Hence, some have argued, relational effects are reducible to item effects. We overcome this problem by manipulating index length: the fewest number of item positions at which there is a unique item, or tuple of items (if length &gt;1), for every instance in the relational (memory) set. Longer indexes imply greater similarity (number of shared items) between instances and higher load on encoding processes. Subjects were given lists of study pairs and asked to make a recognition judgement. The number of unique items and index length in the three list conditions were: (1) AB, CD: four/one; (2) AB, CD, EF: six/one; and (3) AB, AD, CB: four/two, respectively. Japanese letters were used in Experiments 1 (kanji-ideograms) and 2 (hiragana-phonograms); numbers in Experiment 3; and shapes generated from Fourier descriptors in Experiment 4. Across all materials, right dominant temporoparietal and middle frontal gyral activity was found with increased index length, but not items during study. In Experiment 5, a longer delay was used to isolate retention effects in the absence of visual stimuli. Increased left hemispheric activity was observed in the precuneus, middle frontal gyrus, and superior temporal gyrus with increased index length for the delay period. These results show that relational load is not reducible to item load.
In this paper we address the assumptions about the distribution of errors made by voxel-based morphometry. Voxel-based morphometry (VBM) uses the general linear model to construct parametric statistical tests. In order for these statistics to be valid, a small number of assumptions must hold. A key assumption is that the model's error terms are normally distributed. This is usually ensured through the Central Limit Theorem by smoothing the data. However, there is increasing interest in using minimal smoothing (in order to sensitize the analysis to regional differences at a small spatial scale). The validity of such analyses is investigated. In brief, our results indicate that nonnormality in the error terms can be an issue in VBM. However, in balanced designs, provided the data are smoothed with a 4-mm FWHM kernel, nonnormality is sufficiently attenuated to render the tests valid. Unbalanced designs appear to be less robust to violations of normality: a significant number of false positives arise at a smoothing of 4 and 8 mm when comparing a single subject to a group. This is despite the fact that conventional group comparisons appear to be robust, remaining valid even with no smoothing. The implications of the results for researchers using voxel-based morphometry are discussed.
The prefrontal cortex may exert cognitive control by a general mechanism of attentional selection of neuronal representations. We used functional magnetic resonance imaging to test this hypothesis in the motor system. Normal volunteers were scanned during performance of a simple motor task, with their attention either directed towards their actions, or diverted towards a visual search task, or neither. Attention to action increased activity in prefrontal, premotor and parietal cortex, compared with unattended performance of the same movements. Analysis of cortical activity by structural equation modelling of regional fMRI time series was used to measure effective connectivity among prefrontal, premotor and parietal cortices. Attention to action enhanced effective connectivity between dorsal prefrontal cortex and premotor cortex, whereas non-motor attention diminished it. These effects were not attributable to common inputs from parietal cortex to the prefrontal and premotor cortex. The results suggest a supra-modal role for the dorsal prefrontal cortex in attentional selection, operating within the motor system as well as sensory and mnemonic domains.
The aim of the present study was the investigation of neural correlates of music processing with fMRI. Chord sequences were presented to the participants, infrequently containing unexpected musical events. These events activated the areas of Broca and Wernicke, the superior temporal sulcus, Heschl's gyrus, both planum polare and planum temporale, as well as the anterior superior insular cortices. Some of these brain structures have previously been shown to be involved in music processing, but the cortical network comprising all these structures has up to now been thought to be domain-specific for language processing. To what extent this network might also be activated by the processing of non-linguistic information has remained unknown. The present fMRI-data reveal that the human brain employs this neuronal network also for the processing of musical information, suggesting that the cortical network known to support language processing is less domain-specific than previously believed.
We studied top-down visual processes in schizophrenia by analyzing visual event-related potentials (ERPs) during a gestalt recognition task, after subjects (patients with schizophrenia, n = 10; controls, n = 14) were trained to perceive three different geometrical shapes. Recognition performance of patients was poorer under both the figure and the nonfigure conditions then that of normal controls. ERPs analysis indicated that P300 amplitudes of the patients were significantly smaller than those of controls during correct figure detection trials. Moreover, topographical analysis of the differences in ERPs during the figure vs the nonfigure condition showed an earlier, more positive and more widely distributed P300 in controls than in patients with schizophrenia. Our study supports the misconnection hypothesis of schizophrenia and highlights the difficulty of the patients to refer to previous experience in order to filter incoming information. In a visual recognition task, this misconnection syndrome might induce a failure to integrate information stored in the frontal and prefrontal sites with incoming stimuli.
The extent to which visual word perception engages speech codes (i.e., phonological recoding) remains a crucial question in understanding mechanisms of reading. In this study, we used functional magnetic resonance imaging techniques combined with behavioral response measures to examine neural responses to focused versus incidental phonological and semantic processing of written words. Three groups of subjects made simple button-pressing responses in either phonologically (rhyming-judgment) or semantically (category-judgment) focused tasks or both tasks with identical sets of visual stimuli. In the phonological tasks, subjects were given both words and pseudowords separated in different scan runs. The baseline task required feature search of scrambled letter strings created from the stimuli for the experimental conditions. The results showed that cortical regions associated with both semantic and phonological processes were strongly activated when the task required active processing of word meaning. However, when subjects were actively processing the speech sounds of the same set of written words, brain areas typically engaged in semantic processing became silent. In addition, subjects who performed both the rhyming and the semantic tasks showed diverse and significant bilateral activation in the prefrontal, temporal, and other brain regions. Taken together, the pattern of brain activity provides evidence of a neural basis supporting the theory that in normal word reading, phonological recoding is automatic and facilitates semantic processing of written words, while rapid comprehension of word meaning requires devoted attention. These results also raise questions about including multiple cognitive tasks in the same neuroimaging sessions.
Laughter or smile is one of the emotional expressions of pleasantness with characteristic contraction of the facial muscles, of which the neural substrate remains to be explored. This currently described study is the first to investigate the generation of human facial expression of pleasant emotion using positron emission tomography and H(2)(15)O. Regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF) during laughter/smile induced by visual comics and the magnitude of laughter/smile indicated significant correlation in the bilateral supplementary motor area (SMA) and left putamen (P &lt; 0.05, corrected), but no correlation in the primary motor area (M1). In the voluntary facial movement, significant correlation between rCBF and the magnitude of EMG was found in the face area of bilateral M1 and the SMA (P &lt; 0.001, uncorrected). Laughter/smile, as opposed to voluntary movement, activated the visual association areas, left anterior temporal cortex, left uncus, and orbitofrontal and medial prefrontal cortices (P &lt; 0.05, corrected), whereas voluntary facial movement generated by mimicking a laughing/smiling face activated the face area of the left M1 and bilateral SMA, compared with laughter/smile (P &lt; 0.05, corrected). We demonstrated distinct neural substrates of emotional and volitional facial expression and defined cognitive and experiential processes of a pleasant emotion, laughter/smile.
Functional studies of auditory spatial attention generally report enhanced neural responses in auditory cortical regions. However, activity in regions of the spatial attentional network as described in the visual modality is not consistently observed. Data analysis limitations due to oppositely lateralized activity depending on the side of attentional orientation and heterogeneity of paradigms makes it hard to untangle the possible causes of these various activation patterns. In the present article we present a PET study of auditory spatial attention in which we manipulated orientation of attention, attentional load, and difficulty of the task by means of the dichotic listening paradigm. Moreover, we designed a systematic, voxel-specific, method in order to deal with oppositely lateralized activity. The results show that when listeners are involved in auditory spatial attention tasks an interacting network of frontal, temporal, and parietal regions is activated. Selective orientation toward one side mostly yields activity and connectivity modulations in the hemisphere contralateral to the attended side while in divided attention activity is mostly bilateral. Taken together, our observations are consistent with the idea of a multimodal large-scale attentional network.
We report the clinical and electrophysiological findings of a patient with X-linked Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease and a novel point mutation in the connexin-32 gene. A 31-year-old man presented with a 5 year history of progressive imbalance and distal weakness in his legs. Electrophysiological studies confirmed an asymmetric, predominantly axonal sensorimotor neuropathy with some demyelinating features. Genetic testing revealed a G/A transition (Ala40Thr) in a conserved transmembrane region of the connexin-32 gene.
Objective. This experiment was performed to test the hypothesis that intrathecally pumped saline, but not artificial cerebrospinal fluid (CSF), would be analgesic in a rat model of neuropathic pain. Materials and Methods. Surgery for the chronic constriction injury (CCI) model of neuropathic pain and intrathecal catheter placement were performed on the rats, baseline pain testing and pump implantation were performed 7 days later, and pain tests were repeated on days 1, 4, 7, and 14 after pump implantation. Results. Intrathecally pumped saline and artificial CSF were analgesic for cold allodynia (p &lt; 0.05), and intrathecally pumped saline but not CSF for heat nociception in the affected paw (p &lt; 0.005) compared to rats with unattached subcutaneous pumps. No analgesia was observed on tests of spontaneous pain or pressure hyperalgesia (p &gt; 0.1). Conclusions. Intrathecally pumped saline and artificial CSF have analgesic effects on some neuropathic and normal, nociceptive pain signs in CCI rats.
Targeted correction of mutations in muscle can be delivered by direct i.m. injection of corrective DNA to the dystrophic muscle or by autologous injection of cells that have been genetically corrected after isolation from the individual with the dystrophic muscle. The successful application of chimeraplasty and short fragment homologous replacement to correct the exon 23 nonsense mdx transition at the mouse dys locus has opened up the possibility that with further development, targeted gene correction may have some future application for the treatment of muscular dystrophies. In vitro, application of targeted gene correction at the mdx dys locus results in better correction efficiencies than when applied directly to dystrophic muscle. This suggests that at least for the time being, a strategy involving ex vivo correction may be advantageous over a direct approach for delivery of gene correction to dystrophic muscle. This, particularly in view of recent developments indicating that bone-marrow-derived cells are able to systemically remodel dystrophic muscle, whilst penetration of DNA introduced to muscle is limited to individually injected muscles. Application of targeted gene correction to Duchenne dystrophy needs to account for the fact that about 65% of Duchenne muscular dystrophy cases involve large frame-shift deletion of gene sequence at the dys locus. Traditionally, whilst targeted gene correction is able to restore point mutations entirely, it remains to be seen as to whether a strategy for the 'correction' of frame shift deletions may be engineered successfully. This communication discusses the possibility of applying targeted gene correction to dystrophic muscle in Duchenne dystrophy.
There is a pressing need to develop new therapeutic approaches to Duchenne muscular dystrophy, an X-linked fatal disease primarily affecting skeletal and cardiac muscle. Gene therapy is an approach that has attracted much interest since the description of the Duchenne muscular dystrophy gene and its mutations in 1987. Since 1990 numerous reporter and dystrophin gene transfer studies have been conducted on muscles of animals but mostly in mice. Experimental protocols have ranged from germ-line gene transfer (via the production of transgenics) to somatic gene transfer studies using viral or non-viral vectors. But what have we actually learned from such studies that can be applied to patients with Duchenne muscular dystrophy? Various dystrophin, utrophin and integrin recombinant cDNAs have been shown to prevent the development of muscular dystrophy in transgenic dystrophic (mdx) mice. Somatic gene transfer prior to the onset of pathology have been shown to prevent the development of the muscular dystrophy in the mdx mouse but the data is less convincing for the beneficial effects of somatic gene transfer following the establishment of pathology. The time of onset and the course of the disease differ substantially between mouse and man and raise concerns about the applicability of gene therapy in man where the disease manifests in utero and the progression is more severe. The other major concern relates to uncertainty over the efficiency of the different vectors in man, particularly as many patients are likely to have encountered the infectious forms of the viruses that are proposed as vectors.
The use of galactosaemia as a model for some aspects of diabetic polyneuropathy allows the influence of glycation to be studied independently of other effects. There are well-studied abnormalities of the peripheral nerves in galactosaemic rats, one of which is that the efficiency of regeneration is initially reduced. One possible cause could be that glycated myelin debris in macrophages is less degradable and interferes with macrophage function. Macrophage recognition and ingestion of myelin glycosylated in vitro increases with the duration of incubation in a sugar-rich medium. This study was performed to investigate a possible correlation between galactosaemia and regeneration, together with the role of macrophages. Galactosaemia was induced by adding galactose to the rats' diet for 2 months before injury. Following a crush lesion to the sciatic nerve, regeneration was found to be delayed, demonstrated by a reduction in mean myelinated fibre size and density 1 month after crush, although, 2 and 3 months later, the differences did not reach statistical significance. There were also more macrophages in the galactosaemic rats than in the control animals at all time points. The initial delay in regeneration in galactosaemic rats was therefore only temporary and there was little evidence of long-term deleterious effects. In addition to the morphometric results, immunohistochemistry showed that there were more macrophages in the galactosaemic rats than in the control animals at all time points. Correlating macrophage and myelinated fibre counts suggests that the persistence of debris-containing macrophages does not appear to have a significant inhibitory effect on nerve regeneration. No evidence was found for persistent basal laminal tubes around the regenerating clusters.
Neuropeptide Y (NPY) has been proposed to play a role in the pathophysiology of depression and also to act as an endogenous anticonvulsant. Repeated administration of electroconvulsive stimulations (ECS) has been shown to induce a long-term increase in hippocampal NPY neurotransmission, while the effects of single ECS are largely unexplored. In this study, we assessed extracellular levels of NPY in the dorsal hippocampus of freely moving rats following a single ECS. We also studied the effect of locally administered BIBP3226, a selective NPY Y1 receptor antagonist with reported anticonvulsant properties, on the duration of the ECS-induced seizure and NPY release in freely moving animals. Our data demonstrate that a single ECS increases extracellular NPY-like immunoreactivity (LI) levels in the dorsal hippocampus, reaching statistical significance 2h following the treatment. KCl transiently and calcium-dependently increased extracellular levels of NPY, suggesting that the measured NPY-LI is derived from functional neurons. Local BIBP3226 perfusion essentially abolished the ECS-induced seizure but had no effect on the basal NPY-LI outflow or on the ECS-induced rise in extracellular NPY levels. Our data are in line with the hypothesis that one mechanism of action of ECS is to release NPY in the hippocampus and suggest that the increase is in itself not associated with anticonvulsant activity but may represent other properties of NPY.
We evaluated the contribution of peroxynitrite to the fatal cardiovascular depression induced by overproduction of nitric oxide (NO) after activation of inducible NO synthase (iNOS) in the rostral ventrolateral medulla (RVLM), the origin of sympathetic vasomotor tone. In Sprague-Dawley rats maintained under propofol anesthesia, microinjection of E. coli lipopolysaccharide (LPS) bilaterally into the RVLM elicited significant hypotension, bradycardia, reduction in sympathetic vasomotor tone and mortality. There was also a discernible elevation of iNOS expression in the ventrolateral medulla, followed by a massive production of nitrotyrosine, an experimental index for peroxynitrite. Co-administration bilaterally into the RVLM of the selective iNOS inhibitor, S-methylisothiourea (50, 100 or 250 pmol), an active peroxynitrite decomposition catalyst, 5,10,15,20-tetrakis- (N-methyl-4'-pyridyl)-porphyrinato iron (III) (10 or 50 pmol), a peroxynitrite scavenger, L-cysteine (5, 50 or 100 pmol), or a superoxide dismutase mimetic, Mn(III)-tetrakis-(4-benzoic acid) porphyrin (1 or 10 pmol), significantly prevented mortality, reduced nitrotyrosine production and reversed the NO-induced cardiovascular suppression after application of LPS into the RVLM. We conclude that the formation of peroxynitrite by a reaction between superoxide anion and NO is primarily responsible for the fatal cardiovascular depression induced by overproduction of NO after activation of iNOS at the RVLM.
It is well recognized that glutamate is an integral excitatory neurotransmitter in the neuroendocrine control of several hormonal factors. While the ability of pharmacological agents acting at ionotropic glutamate receptors to modulate the levels of serum prolactin levels has been investigated, there have been few reports of the effects mediated by the G-protein coupled, metabotropic glutamate (mGlu) receptors. The present work was undertaken to investigate the role of the Group II mGlu receptors, mGlu2 and mGlu3 in the regulation of serum polactin levels. LY379268, a Group II selective agonist, did not alter basal levels of circulating prolactin in young (36-40 day old) male rats. However, when an immobilization stress-induced hyperprolactinemia was examined, 10 mg/kg s.c. of LY379268 significantly lowered serum prolactin levels. Similarly, pretreatment with LY379268 was able to reverse the hyperprolactinemia induced with the catecholamine synthesis inhibitor, alpha-methyl-p-tyrosine (aMPT). This inhibition of hyperprolactinemia could be prevented by pretreatment with LY341495, a Group II mGlu receptor antagonist. The Group II antagonist alone had no effect on either basal nor stimulated prolactin levels. The agonist LY379268 was able to prevent the transient hyperprolactinemia associated with stimulation of serotonin 5-HT2A receptors by 2,5-dimethoxy-4-iodoamphetamine (DOI), but did not alter the high levels of circulating prolactin induced with the D2 antagonist, haloperidol. When treatment with LY379268 was delayed until 1 h after aMPT, a time demonstrated to show a full effect of aMPT on serum prolactin levels, the Group II agonist was similarly able to reverse hyperprolactinemia, suggesting LY379268 did not act by preventing the partial catecholamine depletion by aMPT. Similarly, high doses of amphetamine, a dopamine (DA) releaser, were able to reverse the aMPT-induced hyperprolactinemia, consistent with sufficient levels of dopamine remaining after aMPT treatment to modulate prolactin levels. LY379268 did not alter the hyperprolactinemia seen in estrogen-primed, ovariectomized female rats. Taken together the results indicate that stimulation of mGlu2/3 has an indirect inhibitory action on pituitary prolactin release. It is speculated that disinhibition of tubero-infundibular DA release by presynaptic Group II mGlu receptors located on inhibitory inputs to the arcuate hypothalamic nucleus is a possible explanation for the findings.
It has been suggested that in patients with Parkinson's disease (PD), difficulties in the manipulation of information, which result in problems in executive tasks, are related to a reduction of working memory capacity (J. D. E. Gabrieli, J. Singh, G. T. Stebbins, &amp; C. G. Goetz, 1996). The present study selectively varied the manipulation demand irrespective of the maintenance requirement. In a group of 14 PD patients, performance declined overproportionally with the increasing task demand and was significantly correlated with a measure of working memory capacity. These results suggest that the complexity of working memory processing may decisively contribute to the exhaustion of resources in PD patients. Increasing complexity may either affect their manipulation ability directly or impede the management of inhibitory control requirements inherent to the task.
Electrophysiological and hemodynamic studies have suggested that structures in the vicinity of the anterior cingulate cortex are involved in performance monitoring, particularly in detection of errors. Bidirectional interactions between the frontomedian system involved in performance monitoring and the lateral prefrontal cortex as well as the orbitofrontal cortex have been proposed, but few studies have directly addressed this issue. The authors used a speeded flankers task to investigate error-related event-related potentials in 3 patient groups with different focal cortical lesions. Whereas bilateral frontopolar lesions involving the orbitofrontal cortex as well as temporal lesions did not alter the error-related negativity (ERN), lesions of the lateral frontal cortex resulted in an abolition of the ERN and in a reduction of the error positivity.
Two individuals with callosal agenesis (J.P. and M.M.) and 10 neurologically normal participants were tested on tasks requiring interhemispheric visual integration. M.M., whose anterior commissure was within normal limits, was much worse at matching colors and letters between visual fields than within visual fields, whereas J.P., whose anterior commissure was greatly enlarged, showed no evidence of interhemispheric disconnection. This suggests that in some cases of callosal agenesis, probably a minority, an enlarged anterior commissure may compensate for the lack of the corpus callosum. Neither acallosal participant showed interhemispheric disconnection on tasks requiring integration of location and orientation, however, suggesting that the anterior commissure plays no role in such tasks. These tasks may depend on subcortical commissures, such as the intertectal commissure.
The neural basis of decision making has been an elusive concept largely due to the many subprocesses associated with it. Recent efforts involving neuroimaging, neuropsychological studies, and animal work indicate that the prefrontal cortex plays a central role in several of these subprocesses. The frontal lobes are involved in tasks ranging from making binary choices to making multi-attribute decisions that require explicit deliberation and integration of diverse sources of information. In categorizing different aspects of decision making, a division of the prefrontal cortex into three primary regions is proposed. (1) The orbitofrontal and ventromedial areas are most relevant to deciding based on reward values and contribute affective information regarding decision attributes and options. (2) Dorsolateral prefrontal cortex is critical in making decisions that call for the consideration of multiple sources of information, and may recruit separable areas when making well defined versus poorly defined decisions. (3) The anterior and ventral cingulate cortex appear especially relevant in sorting among conflicting options, as well as signaling outcome-relevant information. This topic is broadly relevant to cognitive neuroscience as a discipline, as it generally comprises several aspects of cognition and may involve numerous brain regions depending on the situation. The review concludes with a summary of how these regions may interact in deciding and possible future research directions for the field.
In anesthetized and artificially-ventilated rats, the morphological properties of decrementing expiratory (E-DEC) neurons were studied using intracellular recording and labeling with Neurobiotin. Sixteen E-DEC neurons were successfully labeled; ten of which were cranial motoneurons located in the facial (FN) and ambiguus (NA) nuclei. Two interneurons were labeled in the Btzinger complex (BOT) and the ventral respiratory group (VRG) rostral to the obex, and the remaining four in the VRG caudal to the obex. All the interneurons had extensive intramedullary collaterals within the ventrolateral medulla. Terminal-like boutons were distributed ventral to the NA at the level of the BOT, both ventral to and within the NA at the level rostral to the obex and largely within the cell column tentatively designed as the ambiguous-retroambiguus complex (NA/NRA) caudal to the obex. The four interneurons in the NA/NRA had axons projecting to the spinal cord as well. The extensive intramedullary projections suggest that these E-DEC interneurons of the BOT and the VRG play a significant role in respiration. The simultaneous projections from the caudal E-DEC neurons to both the spinal cord and the NA suggest that these neurons also play integrative roles in non-respiratory behaviors including vocalization, swallowing and defecation.

We describe a rare case of psychotic disorder, with unique family dynamics and management difficulties.
Abnormalities of body temperature are perhaps the most common features in many systemic pathologic processes. Such pathologic alterations are nearly always the result of extrinsic factors (for example, systemic pyrogens) which affect the hypothalamic thermoregulatory center by way of circulatory system. Much less common is alterations in temperature regulation resulting from intrinsic lesions of the thermoregulatory center in the hypothalamus. We report a patient with tuberculous meningitis who continued to have persistent fever despite the satisfactory treatment of her tuberculosis. A central thermoregulatory defect was documented and was attributed to a small structural lesion in the anterior hypothalamus.
Varicella-zoster virus (VZV) infection has not often been related to the development of Guillain Barre Syndrome (GBS). However, the close temporal relationship noted between varicella infection and the onset of GBS suggests the participation of VZV in the etiopathogenesis of GBS. Very few cases have been reported showing this relationship. This report describes 2 cases highly suggestive of this association.
A 43-year-old patient presented with acute sporadic brachial plexus. Diagnosis was based on clinical and neurophysiological findings. This case highlights that early diagnosis of this clinical disorder can prevent unnecessary neuroradiological or neurosurgical interventions.
Myasthenia gravis is a disorder of impaired neuromuscular transmission resulting in weakness and abnormal fatigability on exertion, improved by anti-acetyl cholinesterase drugs. A number of drugs are known to exacerbate myasthenia gravis or interfere with neuromuscular transmission. We report a case of D-penicillamine induced myasthenia gravis who developed ptosis, diplopia and easy fatigability, 4 years after initiation of the drug for Wilson`s disease. On stopping the drug, within 3 months all her symptoms disappeared without any anti-acetyl cholinesterase drugs. Thus, the onset of drug induced myasthenia gravis could be insidious but the withdrawal of the drug leads to rapid recovery.








Status epilepticus is a medical emergency that requires prompt recognition and urgent treatment. Successful management of status epilepticus in children depends upon implementation of a treatment protocol modified according to current practices as well as availability of antiepileptic medications, out of hospital emergency services and intensive-care facilities. We propose a treatment protocol for status epilepticus in children in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia.
Apomorphine and certain ergot alkaloids (bromocriptine, lisuride and pergolide) have been available for several decades; for the last few years, they were joined by newer dopamine agonists (cabergoline, pramipexole and ropinirole) most of them are non-ergolines. Each of these dopamine agonists has its own pharmacological characteristics and occupies a place in the pharmacotherapy of Parkinsons disease. In this evidence-based review, emphasis is put on the clinical efficacy of dopamine agonists in early and advanced Parkinsons disease, and where possible comparative evidence regarding their efficacy and safety is provided. In addition, their clinical pharmacokinetics, adverse effect profiles and most relevant interactions will be summarized.

A &quot;grandmother cell&quot; is a hypothetical neuron that responds only to a highly complex, specific, and meaningful stimulus, such as the image of one's grandmother. The term originated in a parable Jerry Lettvin told in 1967. A similar concept had been systematically developed a few years earlier by Jerzy Konorski who called such cells &quot;gnostic&quot; units. This essay discusses the origin, influence, and current status of these terms and of the alternative view that complex stimuli are represented by the pattern of firing across ensembles of neurons.
Brain atlases are equivalent to neuroimage databases provided an appropriate coordinate system to enable multisubject comparisons, along with comprehensive descriptions of the data, are included. Warping tools, visualization, and statistical analyses that accommodate the various neuroimaging modalities can be used to integrate diverse data and form comprehensive maps describing a particular subpopulation's brain structure and function. By linking task performance and genetic information to brain morphology, complex interrelations between genotype, phenotype, and behavior can be established. Several examples of these multimodal, multisubject atlases, including those that are dynamic, are presented.
Experience-dependent editing shapes synaptic connections throughout the developing nervous system, but the underlying cellular mechanisms remain poorly understood. A useful model synapse for addressing these mechanisms is the neuromuscular junction, the connection between spinal motor neurons and skeletal muscle fibers. Here the authors review current ideas about the role of activity in editing neuromuscular synaptic connections. A variety of new tools are being used to address some unanswered questions in vivo and in vitro. Understanding activity-dependent plasticity at developing neuromuscular synapses may reveal how neural circuits in the central nervous system are altered by experience throughout life.
Brains Rule! Neuroscience Expositions is a project designed to improve neuroscience literacy among children and the general public by applying a model where neuroscience professionals transfer knowledge and enthusiasm about neuroscience through fun, engaging hands-on activities. This educational model draws strength from many national and local partnerships of neuroscience professionals to coordinate expositions across the country in a variety of local communities. Brains Rule! Neuroscience Expositions uses a flexible science fair-like format to engage children in the process of science and teach about neuroscience concepts, facts, and professions. Neuroscience literacy is important to everyday life and helps individuals better understand themselves, make informed decisions about health and drug use, participate knowledgeably in governmental and social issues, and better understand scientific advancements. In this study, children's ratings of Brains Rule! Neuroscience Expositions activities were analyzed both quantitatively and qualitatively. Analysis of the responses revealed that overall the children perceived the learning activities as fun and interesting and believed that they learned something about the brain and nervous system after engaging in the activities. The Brains Rule! Neuroscience Expositions education model can be an effective tool in improving neuroscience literacy for both children and adults.
Our memories can be accurate, but they are not always accurate. Eyewitness testimony, for example, is notoriously unreliable. Insights into both veridical and false remembering have come from recent investigations of memory distortion. Behavioral measures have been used to demonstrate false memory phenomena in the laboratory, and neuroimaging measures have been used to provide clues about the relevant events in the brain that support remembering versus misremembering. A central category of misremembering results from confusion between memories for perceived and imagined events, which may result from overlap between particular features of the stored information comprising memories for perceived and imagined events.
CONSTANT CHANGE AND the occasional fusion of two different entities can result in the creation of masterpieces, not only in art but also in neurosurgery. Chisato Araki is one of the pioneers of neurosurgery in Japan; his 2-year sojourn in the United States and Europe provided him with an extraordinary amount of experience. He traveled throughout the world at a time when it took 30 days to journey from Yokohama to New York, and he visited with most of the leading contemporary neurosurgeons and observed their operations, never abandoning his highly honed critical insights. Driven by passion and a deep sense of duty to pass on his knowledge and perspective, he became a beacon of hope and encouragement for young physicians working in a country devastated by war. His successor, Hajime Handa, established neurosurgery as one of the branches of neuroscience and fostered the collaborations and exchanges among different disciplines that have become a tradition and hallmark of our Department of Neurosurgery. Through anecdotes and glimpses of the evolution of neurosurgery at our institution, we offer insights into the unique nature of Japanese neurosurgery that may illuminate the path toward the resolution of some of the recent and enduring problems encountered in our specialty.
PET provides the potential to quantify the distribution of radiolabelled drugs in the human body. In cases when radiolabelled compounds undergo metabolic transformation after administration in vivo, it is necessary to examine the kinetics and distribution of both the labeled mother compound and labeled metabolites. The objective of this study was to assess the extent by which 11C-labeled ethanol, the product arising from the de-esterification of the neuroprotective drug vinpocetine (ethyl-apovincaminate), might contribute to the regional cerebral radioactivity measured by PET after the administration of [ethyl-11C]vinpocetine. In three cynomolgous monkeys PET measurements were made after intravenous bolus injection of both [11C]vinpocetine and 1-[11C]ethanol. There was a marked difference between the regional time-activity curves of [11C]ethanol and [11C]vinpocetine. The distribution pattern obtained with [11C]ethanol was similar to that observed with blood flow tracers such as [15O]water and [15O]butanol. The study shows that although [11C]ethanol may moderately contribute to the brain radioactivity distribution pattern of [11C]vinpocetine, the rapid degradation of [11C]ethanol makes it unlikely that the contribution of this metabolite is of importance. The distinct distribution patterns and kinetics of [11C]vinpocetine and [11C]ethanol also support the view, obtained from our previous observations, that vinpocetine may bind to specific sites in the monkey and human brain, especially in the thalamus.
A few months ago, the Brazilian Society for Neuroscience and Behavior (SBNeC) promoted a &quot;virtual symposium&quot; (by Internet, under the coordination of R.C.A. Guedes) on &quot;Nutrition and Brain Function&quot;. The discussions generated during that symposium originated the present text, which analyzes current topics on the theme, based on the multidisciplinary experience of the authors. The way the brain could be non-homogeneously affected by nutritional alterations, as well as questions like early malnutrition and the development of late obesity and hormone abnormalities were discussed. Also, topics like the role of essential fatty acids (EFAs) on brain development, increased seizure susceptibility and changes in different neurotransmitters and in cognitive performance in malnourished animals, as well as differences between overall changes in nutrient intake and excess or deficiency of specific nutrients (e.g. iodine deficiency) were analyzed. It was pointed out that different types of neurons, possibly in distinct brain structures, might be differently affected by nutritional manipulation, including not only lack-but also excess of nutrient intake. Such differences could help in explaining discrepancies between data on humans and in animals and so, could aid in determining the basic mechanisms underlying lesions or changes in brain function and behavior.
Demographic changes, together with improvements in nutrition, general health, and life expectancy, will greatly change the social and economic structures of most industrialized and developing countries in the next 50 years. Extended life expectancy has increased the number of chronic illnesses and disabilities, including cognitive impairments. Inflammatory processes and vascular dysfunctions appear to play important roles in the pathogenesis of age-associated pathologies including Alzheimer's and Parkinson's disease. A large body of evidence shows that both vitamins E and C are important for the central nervous system and that a decrease in their concentrations causes structural and functional damage to the cells. Several studies reveal a link between diets rich in fruits and vegetables containing generous amounts of vitamins E and C and lower incidence of certain chronic diseases.
Space travelers experience a flight duration-dependent loss in weight and body mass while in a microgravity environment, despite the absence of increased energy expenditure. Anorexia in space can lead to in-flight caloric deficits of 1330 kcal per 70 kg astronaut per day in the presence of abundant food and has a critical effect on endurance and performance. Microgravity, alterations in the light-and-dark cycle, and exposure to radiation energy are the environmental stresses believed to influence appetite, food intake, and gastrointestinal function during space flight. Review of data and recent studies in rodents during microgravity showed a release of stress hormones and complex neuroendocrine and physiologic changes involving the modulation of hypothalamic activity, food intake-related hormones, and cytokines. The shift of dietary preference to carbohydrates, which occurs in astronauts, denotes a stress physiologic response and augments free-plasma tryptophan concentration in the brain, the precursor of the potent anorexic agent, serotonin (5-HT). Alterations of other neuroendocrine mediators, including corticotropin-releasing factor (CRF), coordinate the stress response, leading to a decrease in appetite and gastrointestinal function. Our laboratories used the antiorthostatic tail-suspension technique to successfully mimic some of these anorexia-related stress responses and to directly demonstrate the role of 5-HT in microgravity-related decreased food intake and delayed gastric emptying. Further rodent studies from our laboratories demonstrated the adverse effect of altered dark-and-light cycles on food intake and body weight. Radiation energy, through its documented effects on appetite, probably contributes to the decreased caloric intake by astronauts. Modulation of hypothalamic activity, 5-HT, and CRF play a critical role in anorexia related to microgravity and circadian rhythm alterations. Specific gene knockout mice (e.g., 5-HT or CRF and their respective receptors) may prove fruitful in defining the pathways by which anorexia in space occurs. An understanding of these pathophysiologic problems as they relate to appetite, food intake, gastric emptying and gastrointestinal function, sufficiently to derive successful practical solutions, may lead to a quantitative enhancement of physiologic well-being and performance status, serving as a productive countermeasure in space.
Sex-linked dystonia parkinsonism (XDP) was reported by Lee et al. in 1975 occurring endemically in Panay, Philippines. It is an adult onset, sex-linked, predominantly male, severe, progressive movement disorder with high penetrance and a high frequency of generalization. The movement disorder is characterized by dystonic movements usually starting in the third or fourth decade, focal at the onset, spreading to generalization within 2-5 years. The dystonia co-exist or is replaced by parkinsonism usually beyond the 10th year of illness. As of June 2001, 376 XDP cases have been registered. One hundred and fifteen cases have died. The prevalence of XDP in the island of Panay is 5.24 per 100,000; 0.34/100,000 in the general population. The prevalence varies in the different provinces; it is highest in Capiz at 18.88/100,000, 7.46/100,000 in Aklan, 1.28 in Iloilo and 0.83 in Antique. The 376 cases are from 188 families and 92% of cases have positive family history. Ninety-nine percent of the cases are males. The mean age of onset is 39.48 years. Duration of illness is 12.95 years. Ninety-four percent of patients initially manifest with dystonic symptoms, while only 6% present with Parkinsonian traits. Among those presenting with dystonia, the initial presentation is in the lower extremities in 33%, craniofacial in 27%, cervical and shoulder in 25%, upper extremities in 14%, and trunk in 1%. Regardless of the site of onset, the dystonia spreads in 98% and generalizes within 5 years in 84%. Neuroimaging (magnetic resonance imaging, MRI) was done in 16 patients. In the patients who have just manifested the disease usually when dystonia predominates and parkinsonism is absent. MRI showed minimal atrophy of the caudate and putamen or subtle putaminal signal abnormality. In the late course, where Parkinsonism predominates, severe atrophy of the caudate and putamen as well as marked increase in signal abnormality are seen. There are six autopsied cases of XDP. Neuropathology revealed marked atrophy of the caudate and putamen mostly in the cases with longstanding illness. The sex-linked pattern of inheritance has been established. Genetic studies have located the affected gene (DYT3) to Xq13.1. Nemeth's group has mapped the XDP gene to a &lt;350 kb locus in the DXS 7117-DX 559 region. To date, no treatment has been proven consistently effective.
Combining a wireless telemetry system and a portable near-infrared instrument, we developed a movable optical spectroscopy system for monitoring cerebral hemodynamic changes. The patient carries a miniaturized near-infrared spectroscopy instrument on the back, and data are sent by a wireless telemetry system to a computer, without restricting patient movement. We used this system to detect hemodynamic changes associated with being startled, anticipation, and pleasant and unpleasant emotions in the bilateral prefrontal cortices of 16 right-handed 4- to 6-year-old preschool children while they were watching a 21-minute video clip consisting of various scenes that elicited emotional responses, interpolated with neutral scenes for comparison. The children were relaxed and cooperative when they were studied. Anticipation was associated with increases in cerebral blood flow in the left prefrontal cortex of the 6-year-old children, and unpleasant emotion was associated with decreases in cerebral blood flow bilaterally compared with neutral emotion, irrespective of age. No hemodynamic changes associated with the startle response were observed. Although this study should be considered preliminary, it is suggested that the emotional response is age-dependent and that the left prefrontal cortex participates in anticipation. Our newly developed system will open a window into brain physiology in children.
Nociceptive thresholds to a 55 degrees C hot surface were measured for female Wistar rats before treatments and 30 min. and 60 min. after the treatments. After injection with either naloxone or saline following baseline measurements, the rats were exposed for 30 min. to either sham fields or to weak (about 1 microTesla) burst-firing magnetic fields composed of 230 points (4 msec. per point) presented once every 3 sec. The rats that had received the burst-firing magnetic fields exhibited elevated nociceptive thresholds that explained about 50% of the variance. A second pattern, designed after the behaviour of individual thalamic neurons during nociceptive input and called the &quot;activity rhythm magnetic field&quot; produced only a transient analgesic effect. These results replicated previous studies and suggest that weak, extremely low frequency, pulsed magnetic fields with biorelevant temporal structures may have utility as adjuncts for treatment of pain.
We investigated the effect of unseen hand posture on cross-modal, visuo-tactile links in covert spatial attention. In Experiment 1, a spatially nonpredictive visual cue was presented to the left or right hemifield shortly before a tactile target on either hand. To examine the spatial coordinates of any cross-modal cuing, the unseen hands were either uncrossed or crossed so that the left hand lay to the right and vice versa. Tactile up/down (i.e., index finger/thumb) judgments were better on the same side of external space as the visual cue, for both crossed and uncrossed postures. Thus, which hand was advantaged by a visual cue in a particular hemifield reversed across the different unseen postures. In Experiment 2, nonpredictive tactile cues now preceded visual targets. Up/down judgments for the latter were better on the same side of external space as the tactile cue, again for both postures. These results demonstrate cross-modal links between vision and touch in exogenous covert spatial attention that remap across changes in unseen hand posture, suggesting a modulatory role for proprioception.
Mitochondrial Ca uptake is important for ATP production and intracellular Ca buffering. Several agents are often used to interfere with mitochondrial Ca transport, but the use of these agents in intact cells is complicated by lack of knowledge about how rapidly these agents gain access to intracellular mitochondria. We have developed a novel method to assess the time course with which extracellularly applied inhibitors gain access to mitochondria in intact ventricular myocytes preloaded with the fluorescent Ca indicator indo-1-AM. Cell contraction (assessed as the normalized change in cell length delta L(n)) was employed as an index of the cytosolic [Ca] ([Ca](c)), and was compared with the indo-l ratio R(n), which reflects both mitochondrial [Ca] ([Ca](m)) and [Ca](c). Upon abrupt plasma membrane damage in control cells, the delay ( t(k)) between the rise in L(n)and R(n) was &lt;10 s (reflecting the time lag between the change in [Ca](c) and that in [Ca](m)). Exposure of cells to 50 microM ruthenium red (RR) increased t(k) as a monotonic function of preincubation time. In contrast, 10 microM Ru360, a selective and more potent Ca uniporter blocker ( K(i) approximately 0.2 nM) reached a comparable maximal t(k) after only 10 min, making it practical to use in intact cells. Carbonylcyanide p-(trifluoromethoxy)phenylhydrazone (FCCP) and carbonylcyanide m-chlorophenylhydrazone (CCCP) produced smaller maximal effects on t(k), but did so almost immediately. These results are the first quantitative data on the time course of blockade of mitochondrial Ca uptake by the four most widely used mitochondrial Ca uptake antagonists in single ventricular myocytes.
This study was aimed at determining the effects of a chronic modafinil intraperitoneal administration on the rate of learning in a series of five serial spatial discrimination reversals (SSDR) in a T-maze. Results showed that a daily modafinil administration at 64 mg/kg but not at 32 mg/kg induced a faster learning rate as compared to controls. This learning improvement in experimental mice was due to the faster emergence of a win-stay rule over days of testing. In contrast, a second experiment showed that the same modafinil treatment had no significant effect on contingently reinforced alternation rates over five successive days of testing, as compared to controls. Thus, the results show that modafinil spared the ability to shift responses over trials and consequently, that the use of the win-stay rule to solve the SSDR task observed in modafinil-treated animals is due to an improvement of learning processes.
Chronic anabolic-androgenic steroid (AAS) treatment during adolescence facilitates offensive aggression in male Syrian hamsters (Mesocricetus auratus). The current study assessed whether adolescent AAS-facilitated offensive attack was modulated by serotonin (5-HT) and if AAS exposure during this developmental period influenced 5-HT innervation to areas of hamster brain implicated in aggressive behavior. In a first experiment, hamsters were administered high-dose AAS throughout adolescence, and then scored for offensive attack following the systemic administration of saline or fluoxetine, a selective 5-HT reuptake inhibitor. Saline-treated hamsters showed high levels of offensive attack, while treatment with fluoxetine attenuated the AAS-facilitated aggressive response. In a second experiment,were administered high-dose AAS or sesame oil throughout adolescence, tested for offensive attack and then examined for differences in 5-HT innervation to areas of the hamster brain important for aggression. Aggressive AAS-treated hamsters showed significant reductions in the number of 5-HT immunoreactive (5-HT-ir) varicosities and fibers in several of these areas, most notably the anterior hypothalamus (AH), ventrolateral hypothalamus (VLH) and medial amygdala (MeA). However, no differences in 5-HT afferent innervation were found in other aggression areas, such as the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis (BNST) and lateral septum (LS). Together, these results support a role for altered 5-HT innervation and function in adolescent AAS-facilitated offensive aggression.
Iminodipropionitrile (IDPN) produces irreversible behavioral abnormalities characterized by excitation with choreiform and circling movements (ECC) syndrome in rodents. Concomitant exposure to drugs or environmental chemicals has been shown to alter IDPN-induced neurobehavioral toxicity. This investigation was undertaken to study the effect of sodium salicylate (SS) on IDPN-induced behavioral abnormalities in rats. The animals were exposed to IDPN (100 mg/kg ip) daily for 8 days. SS was administered daily 30 min before IDPN in the doses of 50, 100 and 200 mg/kg ip for 12 days. The animals were observed for neurobehavioral abnormalities including dyskinetic head movements, circling, tail hanging, air righting reflex and contact inhibition of the righting reflex. Horizontal and vertical locomotor activities and forelimbs grip strength were also measured. After behavioral studies, the animals were sacrificed, and the cerebrum and temporal bones were collected for glutathione analysis and inner ear histopathology, respectively. The onset of ECC syndrome was observed on Day 9 in the IDPN-alone group with 100% incidence on Day 12. Cotreatment with salicylate dose-dependently delayed the onset time and significantly attenuated the incidence and severity of IDPN-induced neurobehavioral signs. IDPN alone significantly increased horizontal motor activity and reduced vertical motor activity and forelimbs grip strength; these effect were significantly reversed by salicylate treatment. Treatment with salicylate also attenuated IDPN-induced depletion of GSH in the cerebrum, suggesting its free radical scavenging property.
Inhibitors of adenosine kinase (AK) enhance extracellular concentrations of the inhibitory neuromodulator adenosine (ADO) at sites of tissue hyperexcitability and produce antinociceptive effects in animal models of pain and inflammation. The present study compared the ability of several novel and selective AK inhibitors and ADO receptor-selective agonists to attenuate carrageenan-induced thermal hyperalgesia and to impair motor performance as measured by effects on exploratory motor activity and rotorod performance. The prototypical nucleoside AK inhibitor, 5'deoxy-5-iodotubercidin (5'd-5IT), dose-dependently blocked thermal hyperalgesia (ED(50)=0.2 micromol/kg ip) and was 4- and 75-fold less potent in reducing exploratory motor activity and rotorod performance, respectively. The antihyperalgesic effects of 5'd-5IT were fully blocked by the A(1) antagonist, cyclopentyltheophylline (CPT) and the A(2A) antagonist, 3,7-dimethyl-1-propargylxanthine (DMPX). Novel nucleoside and non-nucleoside AK inhibitors (A-134974, A-286501 and ABT-702) also potently (ED(50)=0.7-2 micromol/kg ip) blocked carrageenan-induced thermal hyperalgesia and were significantly less potent than 5'd-5IT in impairing motor performance. The systemic administration of N(6)-cyclopentyladenosine (CPA), an A(1) receptor-selective agonist, CGS 21680, an A(2A) receptor-selective agonist, and N(6)-ethylcarboxamidoadenosine (NECA), a nonselective ADO receptor agonist potently reduced (ED(50)=0.3-1.0 micromol/kg ip) thermal hyperalgesia. Unlike the AK inhibitors, however, these ADO receptor agonists produced significant antinociception only at doses that also decreased motor performance. These data demonstrate that AK inhibitors produce specific antihyperalgesic effects via an interaction with ADO A(1) and A(2A) receptors at doses that lack detectable effects on exploratory motor activity and rotorod performance and offer an improved separation between antinociceptive and motor impairing effects as compared to ADO receptor agonists.
FK960 [N-(4-acetyl-1-piperazinyl)-p-fluorobenzamide monohydrate] is a novel antidementia drug which has been demonstrated to have potential cognitive-improving actions through enhancement of somatostatin release. Since the mechanism of action is different from cholinesterase inhibitors (CEIs), FK960 might be more efficacious at alleviating cognitive deficiencies than CEIs alone, particularly when used in combination therapies with CEIs. We examined the ability of FK960 and donepezil, a CEI, to improve memory deficits in three rat models of dementia: scopolamine-treated rats, rats received with bilateral nucleus basalis magnocellularis (NBM) lesions, and aged rats using the passive avoidance task. FK960 (0.1-10 mg/kg ip) significantly ameliorated the memory deficits in all three models. Donepezil (0.032-3.2 mg/kg ip) significantly improved the deficits induced by both scopolamine or by NBM lesion, but no significant effect was observed in the aged rat model. To determine whether concomitant treatment would be more effective, we coadministered FK960 and donepezil in NBM-lesioned rats using the same task. Concurrent administration of FK960 and donepezil at dosages that were suboptimal when the compounds were administered alone (FK960, 0.1 mg/kg; donepezil, 0.1 mg/kg) significantly improved memory impairment in the animals. Furthermore, coadministration of FK960 and donepezil at optimal dosages for both (FK960, 1 mg/kg; donepezil, 0.32 mg/kg) produced marked amelioration of memory deficits that was more efficacious than when either compound was administered individually. These results demonstrate that FK960 is more efficacious than CEIs in improving memory deficits, and that FK960 has synergistic efficacy when combined with CEIs.
Photodynamic therapy (PDT) of cancer is a very promising technique based on the formation of singlet oxygen induced by a sensitizer after irradiation with visible light. The stimulation of tumor growth by nitric oxide (NO) was reported recently, and NO was shown to have a protective effect against PDT-induced tumor death. We investigated a putative direct effect of NO on tumor cell death induced by PDT, using the human lymphoblastoid CCRF-CEM cells and bisulfonated aluminum phthalocyanine (AlPcS2) as a sensitizer. Cells were incubated with AlPcS2 in the presence or absence of NO donors ((Z)-1-[(2-aminoethyl)-N-(2-ammonioethyl)amino]diazen-1-ium-1,2-diolate, hydroxylamine and S-nitroso-N-acetylpenicillamine) or L-arginine. Under these conditions, in the absence of NO donors or L-arginine the cells died rapidly by apoptosis upon photosensitization. In the presence of NO donors or L-arginine, apoptotic cell death after photosensitization was significantly decreased. Modulation of cell death by NO was not due to S-nitrosylation of caspases and occurred at the level or upstream of caspase-9 processing. The protective effect of NO was reversed by incubating the cells with 1H-[1,2,4]oxadiazolo[4,3-a]quinoxalin-1-one, an inhibitor of guanylyl cyclase, or with KT5823, an inhibitor of protein kinase G (PKG). Incubation with 8-bromo-cyclic guanosine monophosphate, a membrane permeable cyclic guanosine monophosphate analog, also decreased cell death induced by PDT. Although the protective effect of NO against apoptotic cell death in several models has been attributed to an increase in the expression of heme oxygenase-1, heat shock protein 70 or Bcl-2, this was not the case under our experimental conditions. These results show that NO decreases the extent of apoptotic cell death after PDT treatment through a PKG-dependent mechanism, upstream or at the level of caspase activation.
Chronic pain can occur after peripheral nerve injury, infection, or inflammation. Under such neuropathic pain conditions, sensory processing in the affected body region becomes grossly abnormal. Despite decades of research, currently available drugs largely fail to control such pain. This review explores the possibility that the reason for this failure lies in the fact that such drugs were designed to target neurons rather than immune or glial cells. It describes how immune cells are a natural and inextricable part of skin, peripheral nerves, dorsal root ganglia, and spinal cord. It then examines how immune and glial activation may participate in the etiology and symptomatology of diverse pathological pain states in both humans and laboratory animals. Of the variety of substances released by activated immune and glial cells, proinflammatory cytokines (tumor necrosis factor, interleukin-1, interleukin-6) appear to be of special importance in the creation of peripheral nerve and neuronal hyperexcitability. Although this review focuses on immune modulation of pain, the implications are pervasive. Indeed, all nerves and neurons regardless of modality or function are likely affected by immune and glial activation in the ways described for pain.
Acute encephalitis constitutes a medical emergency. In most cases, the presence of focal neurological signs and focal seizures will distinguish encephalitis from encephalopathy. Acute disseminated encephalomyelitis is a non-infective inflammatory encephalitis that may require to be treated with steroids. Acute infective encephalitis is usually viral. Herpes simplex encephalitis (HSE) is the commonest sporadic acute viral encephalitis in the Western world. Magnetic resonance imaging of brain is the investigation of choice in HSE and the diagnosis may be confirmed by the polymerase chain reaction test for the virus in the cerebrospinal fluid. In this article, we review the diagnosis, investigations, and management of acute encephalitis. With few exceptions (for example, aciclovir for HSE), no specific therapy is available for most forms of viral encephalitis. Mortality and morbidity may be high and long term sequelae are known among survivors. The emergence of unusual forms of zoonotic encephalitis has posed an important public health problem. Vaccination and vector control measures are useful preventive strategies in certain arboviral and zoonotic encephalitis. However, we need better antiviral therapy to meet the challenge of acute viral encephalitis more effectively.
Developmental studies have shown that visuo-spatial working memory (VSWM) performance improves throughout childhood and adolescence into young adulthood. The neural basis of this protracted development is poorly understood. In this study, we used functional MRI (fMRI) to examine VSWM function in children, adolescents, and young adults, ages 7-22. Subjects performed a 2-back VSWM experiment that required dynamic storage and manipulation of spatial information. Accuracy and response latency on the VSWM task improved gradually, extending into young adulthood. Age-related increases in brain activation were observed in focal regions of the left and right dorsolateral prefrontal cortex, left ventrolateral prefrontal cortex (including Broca's area), left premotor cortex, and left and right posterior parietal cortex. Multiple regression analysis was used to examine the relative contributions of age, accuracy, and response latency on activation. Our analysis showed that age was the most significant predictor of activation in these brain regions. These findings provide strong evidence for a process of protracted functional maturation of bilateral fronto-parietal neural networks involved in VSWM development. At least two neural systems involved in VSWM mature together: (i) a right hemisphere visuo-spatial attentional system, and (ii) a left hemisphere phonological storage and rehearsal system. These observations suggest that visually and verbally mediated mnemonic processes, and their neural representations, develop concurrently during childhood and adolescence and into young adulthood.
The view seems to prevail that the frequency range of hearing is determined by the properties of the outer and middle ears. We argue that this view is an oversimplification, in part because the reactive component of cochlear input impedance, which affects the low-frequency sensitivity of the cochlea, is neglected. Further, we use comparisons of audiograms and transfer functions for stapes (or columella) velocity or pressure in scala vestibuli near the stapes footplate to show that the middle ear by itself is not responsible for limiting high-frequency hearing in the few species for which such comparisons are possible. Finally, we propose that the tonotopic organization of the cochlea plays a crucial role in setting the frequency limits of cochlear sensitivity and hence in determining the bandwidth of hearing.
It is reported here that male-male courtship behavior is evoked instantaneously in the fruit fly Drosophila by conditional disruption of synaptic transmission. A temperature-sensitive allele of the Drosophila dynamin gene shibire (shi(ts1)) was expressed by using the GAL4/UAS system to disrupt synaptic transmission from GAL4-positive neurons in a temperature-dependent manner. An enhancer-trap GAL4 line C309 directing shi(ts1) expression in central and peripheral neurons (C309/UAS-shi(ts1)) initiated stereotypical precopulatory behavior toward other mature males immediately after a temperature shift from the permissive to restrictive temperature. At the restrictive temperature, C309/UAS-shi(ts1) males formed &quot;courtship chains&quot; and exhibited abnormally high levels of head-to-head interactions. The temperature-induced male-male courtship is attributable not to an increase in sexual attractiveness but to an increase in sexual activity of C309/UAS-shi(ts1) males. Interestingly, the temperature-induced increase in sexual activity is specific toward male partners, because C309/UAS-shi(ts1) males courted receptive virgin females less vigorously and copulated less efficiently after shifted to the restrictive temperature. Among the GAL4-positive neurons in C309, conditional disruption of certain cholinergic neurons but not the mushroom body intrinsic neurons plays a critical role in the induction of male-male courtship. These neurons may be involved in inhibitory systems that normally suppress aberrant male-male courtship. The presented strategy that can induce behavioral abnormalities by disrupting synaptic transmission in an acute and noninvasive manner will allow further exploration as to how distinct neuronal groups control sexual orientation and other aspects of reproductive behavior in Drosophila.
The nucleus accumbens is a brain region in which limbic and motor inputs converge. How these information modalities shape accumbens output is not clearly understood. Here, we report that synaptic inputs from the prefrontal cortex and limbic structures interact differently depending on their timing. Coincident inputs may result in enhancing information flow through the nucleus accumbens. Responses to asynchronous inputs are affected by their relative order of arrival, with limbic inputs allowing subsequent prefrontal responses, and prefrontal inputs dampening limbic responses. These mechanisms allow for both coincidence detection and input selection in this integrative brain region.
The idea that memory is encoded by means of synaptic growth is not new. However, this idea has been difficult to demonstrate in the mammalian brain because of both the complexity of mammalian behavior and the neural circuitry by which it is supported. Here we examine how eyeblink classical conditioning affects synapse number within the cerebellum; the brain region essential for long-term retention of the conditioned response. Results showed eyeblink-conditioned rats to have significantly more synapses per neuron within the cerebellar interpositus nucleus than both explicitly unpaired and untrained controls. Further analysis showed that the increase was caused by the addition of excitatory rather than inhibitory synapses. Thus, development of the conditioned eyeblink response is associated with a strengthening of inputs from precerebellar nuclei rather than from cerebellar cortex. These results demonstrate that the modifications of specific neural pathways by means of synaptogenesis contributes to formation of a specific memory within the mammalian brain.
Decapping of mRNA is a critical step in eukaryotic mRNA turnover, yet the proteins involved in this activity remain elusive in mammals. We identified the human Dcp2 protein (hDcp2) as an enzyme containing intrinsic decapping activity. hDcp2 specifically hydrolyzed methylated capped RNA to release m(7)GDP; however, it did not function on the cap structure alone. hDcp2 is therefore functionally distinct from the recently identified mammalian scavenger decapping enzyme, DcpS. hDcp2-mediated decapping required a functional Nudix (nucleotide diphosphate linked to an X moiety) pyrophosphatase motif as mutations in conserved amino acids within this motif disrupted the decapping activity. hDcp2 is detected exclusively in the cytoplasm and predominantly cosediments with polysomes. Consistent with the localization of hDcp2, endogenous Dcp2-like decapping activity was detected in polysomal fractions prepared from mammalian cells. Similar to decapping in yeast, the presence of the poly(A) tail was inhibitory to the endogenous decapping activity, yet unlike yeast, competition of cap-binding proteins by cap analog did not influence the efficiency of decapping. Therefore the mammalian homologue of the yeast Dcp2 protein is an mRNA decapping enzyme demonstrated to contain intrinsic decapping activity.
Self-supervised models of how the brain represents and categorises the causes of its sensory input can be divided into two classes: those that minimise the mutual information (i.e. redundancy) among evoked responses and those that minimise the prediction error. Although these models have similar goals, the way they are attained, and the functional architectures employed, can be fundamentally different. This review describes the two classes of models and their implications for the functional anatomy of sensory cortical hierarchies in the brain. We then consider how empirical evidence can be used to disambiguate between architectures that are sufficient for perceptual learning and synthesis. Most models of representational learning require prior assumptions about the distribution of sensory causes. Using the notion of empirical Bayes, we show that these assumptions are not necessary and that priors can be learned in a hierarchical context. Furthermore, we try to show that learning can be implemented in a biologically plausible way. The main point made in this review is that backward connections, mediating internal or generative models of how sensory inputs are caused, are essential if the process generating inputs cannot be inverted. Because these processes are dynamical in nature, sensory inputs correspond to a non-invertible nonlinear convolution of causes. This enforces an explicit parameterisation of generative models (i.e. backward connections) to enable approximate recognition and suggests that feedforward architectures, on their own, are not sufficient. Moreover, nonlinearities in generative models, that induce a dependence on backward connections, require these connections to be modulatory; so that estimated causes in higher cortical levels can interact to predict responses in lower levels. This is important in relation to functional asymmetries in forward and backward connections that have been demonstrated empirically. To ascertain whether backward influences are expressed functionally requires measurements of functional integration among brain systems. This review summarises approaches to integration in terms of effective connectivity and proceeds to address the question posed by the theoretical considerations above. In short, it will be shown that functional neuroimaging can be used to test for interactions between bottom-up and top-down inputs to an area. The conclusion of these studies points toward the prevalence of top-down influences and the plausibility of generative models of sensory brain function.
The zebrafish is a leading model for studies of vertebrate development and genetics. Its embryonic motor behaviors are easy to assess (e.g. for mutagenic screens), the embryos develop rapidly (hatching as larvae at 2 days) and are transparent, permitting calcium imaging and patch clamp recording in vivo. We review primarily the recent advances in understanding the cellular basis for the development of motor activities in the developing zebrafish. The motor activities are generated largely in the spinal cord and hindbrain. In the embryo these segmented structures possess a relatively small number of repeating sets of identifiable neurons. Many types of neurons as well as the two types of muscle cells have been classified based on their morphologies. Some of the molecular signals for cellular differentiation have been identified recently and mutations affecting cell development have been isolated. Embryonic motor behaviors appear in sequence and consist of an early period of transient spontaneous coiling contractions, followed by the emergence of twitching responses to touch, and later by the ability to swim. Coiling contractions are generated by an electrically coupled network of a subset of spinal neurons whereas a chemical (glutamatergic and glycinergic) synaptic drive underlies touch responses and swimming. Swimming becomes sustained in larvae once the neuromodulatory serotonergic system develops. These results indicate many similarities between developing zebrafish and other vertebrates in the properties of the synaptic drive underlying locomotion. Therefore, the zebrafish is a useful preparation for gaining new insights into the development of the neural control of vertebrate locomotion. As the types of neurons, transmitters, receptors and channels used in the locomotor network are being defined, this opens the possibility of combining cellular neurophysiology with forward and reverse molecular genetics to understand the principles of locomotor network assembly and function.
The potential differential effects of isolated and collective housing through the testing phase on sensitisation to cocaine-induced locomotion, the subsequent conditioned locomotion and the context-dependent expression of sensitisation were examined in C57Bl/6J male mice. Sensitisation was first generated in mice receiving seven once-daily subcutaneous injections of either saline or 10 mg/kg cocaine, before being placed in a testing chamber (singly) or in their home cage. On Day 8, mice were tested for conditioned locomotion (under saline). On Day 12, after three daily sessions of reinstatement of sensitisation, they were tested for contextual sensitisation (under cocaine). Whereas little or no effect of housing on the development of sensitisation was found, postsensitisation conditioned activity was significantly greater in isolation-kept mice (in comparison with the group-kept animals) and the likelihood of inducing a context-dependent expression of sensitisation was greater in grouped-housed mice. The results indicate that some of the aspects of contextual sensitisation can be influenced by the social conditions of lodging, not only when these conditions start several weeks before or during previous developmental periods of animals life (as previously published), but also when social isolation or social grouping are initiated after sexual maturity and applied through the period of treatments and testing. Moreover, the differential effect of social conditions of lodging on conditioned activity and contextual expression of sensitisation disagrees with the excitatory conditioning account of contextual sensitisation.

The authors investigated the effect of long-term lithium administration on intracellular calcium mobilization. The subjects were 13 women with bipolar affective disorder stabilized on lithium and 12 matched healthy controls. Total and ionized serum calcium, intracellular calcium ion concentration, plasma parathyroid hormone (PTH) and tyrotropin (TSH), serum electrolytes and cyclic AMP (cAMP) activity in platelets were measured. The serum electrolytes sodium, potassium and creatinine and plasma PTH and TSH were all within normal ranges in patients and controls and no differences were found between the two groups. No difference was found in basal and prostaglandin E1 (PGE1)-stimulated cAMP generation in platelets between patients and controls. However, total serum calcium and ionized serum calcium levels were higher in patients than in controls and there was a significant correlation between these two measures. In the patient group, serum lithium concentration correlated positively with stimulated levels of intracellular calcium in platelets. In the present study, no distinct hyperparathyroidism was found in lithium-treated patients. However, our findings indicate that lithium administration affects calcium metabolism in patients with bipolar affective disorder inducing mild hypercalcemia and a dose-dependent normalized calcium mobilization. Furthermore, our results did not support the hypothesis that lithium's primary site of action in bipolar illness may be on signal transduction mechanisms.
The authors present a unified account of 2 neural systems concerned with the development and expression of adaptive behaviors: a mesencephalic dopamine system for reinforcement learning and a &quot;generic&quot; error-processing system associated with the anterior cingulate cortex. The existence of the error-processing system has been inferred from the error-related negativity (ERN), a component of the event-related brain potential elicited when human participants commit errors in reaction-time tasks. The authors propose that the ERN is generated when a negative reinforcement learning signal is conveyed to the anterior cingulate cortex via the mesencephalic dopamine system and that this signal is used by the anterior cingulate cortex to modify performance on the task at hand. They provide support for this proposal using both computational modeling and psychophysiological experimentation.
This review presents the pharmacology of antidepressants as it relates to their effects on several neurotransmitters and their receptors. A theory about the mechanism of action of these drugs is presented, along with data for their affinities at human transporters for norepinephrine, serotonin, and dopamine, and at several different neurotransmitter receptors. This blockade by antidepressants of transporters and receptors is thought to relate to therapeutic and adverse effects of these compounds. Knowledge of this preclinical pharmacology of antidepressants will help the clinician understand the basis of certain adverse effects and drug interactions that can be avoided or minimized.



On a second-order schedule, a subject responds according to one schedule (the unit schedule) for a brief presentation of a stimulus such as a light. Responding by the subject on this unit schedule is then reinforced according to another schedule of reinforcement. Second-order schedules of drug injection allow the study of more complex behavioral sequences than do simple schedules and may more accurately reflect the human drug-abuse situation. Much of the early work in this area used primates as subjects and focused on the behavioral variables controlling responding. It was shown that long sequences of behavior could be maintained on second-order schedules with relatively infrequent injections of drug and that the second-order, brief-stimulus presentations were critical to the acquisition and maintenance of responding. Also, the continued presentation of the brief stimulus in extinction often led to prolonged extinction behavior. These studies clearly showed that environmental stimuli greatly influence drug self-administration behavior under second-order schedules. The focus of much of the more recent work with second-order schedules has been on the evaluation of pharmacological treatments for drug addiction, both as antagonist and substitution therapies. Both types of potential therapies have shown promise in these preclinical models of addictive behavior. The recent extension of second-order self-administration studies to rats as subjects has facilitated the investigation of neural mechanisms involved in this behavior. While this use of second-order schedules is a relatively recent phenomenon, significant contributions have already been made in identifying neural mechanisms critical to second-order schedule drug self-administration. This active area of research holds great promise for delineating specific brain regions critical to different aspects of drug addiction.


A computational model of how single neurons in and around the rat hippocampus support spatial navigation is reviewed. The extension of this model, to include the retrieval from human long-term memory of spatial scenes and the spatial context of events is discussed. The model explores the link between spatial and mnemonic functions by supposing that retrieval of spatial information from long-term storage requires the imposition of a particular viewpoint. It is consistent with data relating to representational hemispatial neglect and the involvement of the mammillary bodies, anterior thalamus, and hippocampal formation in supporting both episodic recall and the representation of head direction. Some recent behavioural, neuropsychological, and functional neuroimaging experiments are reviewed, in which virtual reality is used to allow controlled study of navigation and memory for events set within a rich large-scale spatial context. These studies provide convergent evidence that the human hippocampus is involved in both tasks, with some lateralization of function (navigation on the right and episodic memory on the left). A further experiment indicates hippocampal involvement in retrieval of spatial information from a shifted viewpoint. I speculate that the hippocampal role in episodic recollection relates to its ability to represent a viewpoint moving within a spatial framework.


The authors report an unusual case of a 50-year-old woman presenting with cavernous sinus syndrome, who had a cavernous sinus cavernous hemangioma (CSCH). The acute onset of her symptoms including pain of the right eye, blephaloptosis of the right eye, diplopia, and sensory disturbance of the right face was similar to those of Tolosa-Hunt syndrome. Magnetic resonance imaging and angiography showed a tumor in the right cavernous sinus. Although she showed improvement of the symptoms after receiving oral corticosteroids, follow-up neuroradiological investigations after a year from the onset revealed the mass in the right cavernous sinus which grew up in size. The histopathological findings obtained from the biopsy of the mass demonstrated a CSCH. Our findings suggest that the growth mechanism of CSCH could be progressive ectasia of vessels or their autonomous development at the edges of the lesions.
Abnormalities of cerebellar structure and function, long recognized as a hallmark of chronic alcohol abuse, have also occasionally been noted in patients with schizophrenia. We used a four-point rating scale to assess clinical signs of cerebellar dysfunction in men meeting DSM-IV criteria for schizophrenia (N=34) and alcohol dependence (N=15) as well as normal control subjects (N=28). Compared to controls, alcoholics had impaired ratings of gait ataxia and instability of stance with eyes closed, and schizophrenics had impaired ratings of stance with eyes closed. The incidence of dysdiadochokinesia was greater in schizophrenics, but not alcoholics, than controls. The incidence of gait and stance abnormalities was higher in both patient groups relative to controls: within the schizophrenic group, 50-70% of those with positive signs for gait or stance impairment were comorbid for alcoholism, while only 25% of those with positive signs for dysdiadochokinesia were comorbid for alcoholism. The presence of dysdiadochokinesia in the schizophrenic group suggests cerebellar dysfunction that is independent of the effects of alcohol. By contrast, clinical signs of cerebellar dysfunction of gait and stance in patients with schizophrenia may be secondary to the effects of alcohol on the cerebellum.

The long-term prognosis of pharmacological therapy in patients with mesial temporal sclerosis (MTS) is generally considered poor. On the contrary, successful surgical therapy is frequently reported. We performed a retrospective case record survey of patients with MTS in a comprehensive epilepsy center between 1993 and 1999 in order to develop treatment strategies. The time period allowed access to high-resolution qualitative magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and a minimum of 1-year outcome assessment. Eighty-three patients with intractable partial epilepsy with MRI and electroencephalograph (EEG) abnormalities and seizure semiology consistent with temporal lobe epilepsy were identified. Thirty-six patients were treated pharmacologically and surgically and 47 patients received only pharmacotherapy. The number of patients who became seizure free was in total 37 (45%); in the surgical group 26 and in the non-surgical group 11. The proportions of seizure-free patients in each group were 72% (surgical) and 23% (non-surgical). Clinical factors such as age, gender, lesion side, previous medical history, duration of illness, seizure frequency and IQ did not correlate to prognosis. A good seizure outcome was associated with early age of seizure onset, low number of previously used antiepileptic drugs (AEDs) and surgical treatment. There is a better long-term outcome in patients with MTS receiving surgical therapy in comparison with medical therapy.
Continuing advances in neuroimaging technology as well as postmortem examinations have enabled researchers to begin to accumulate substantial evidence suggesting that chronic mood disorders may be associated with actual structural and neurochemical changes within the brain. There is emerging evidence to suggest that various treatment modalities may also induce measurable changes within the brain detectable with specialized neuroimaging techniques, which may be responsible for their clinical therapeutic effects. One such specialized neuroimaging technique, magnetic resonance spectroscopy (MRS), is briefly reviewed. Included is an overview of basic MRS technology and a review of its application in the study of chronic mood disorders to date. We review our recent studies investigating neurochemical changes induced by the mood stabilizer, lithium, in the treatment of bipolar disorder (BPD). Finally, in view of accumulating evidence suggesting a neuronal atrophy and cell death hypothesis for depression, we discuss the potential use of MRS to evaluate pharmacologic interventions for important potential neurotrophic and neuroprotective effects on the adult human brain.
Research in mood disorder pathophysiology has stimulated considerable interest in clinical and biologic aspects of mood disorders among children and adolescents. From the clinical perspective, developmental aspects of psychiatric disorders have crystallized in the relatively new theoretical school known as developmental psychopathology. This school attempts to understand the nature of developmental changes in behavior, with the goal of differentiating normal from abnormal stage-related behavior. This perspective has exerted major impact on conceptualizations of psychiatric disorders. From the basic science perspective, biologic findings in emotion have stimulated an integration of basic and clinical approaches to mood disorders. The term emotion is often used to refer to brain states elicited by stimuli for which an organism will extend effort to obtain (rewards) or avoid (punishments). Imaging studies suggest that brain regions engaged by rewarding and punishing stimuli in lower mammals are also implicated in mood disorders. Other studies suggest that environmental factors exert profound effects on the development of these brain regions. The impact of 4 areas of research on our understanding of depression pathophysiology is reviewed: (1) mood disorder onset, (2) structural magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), (3) behavioral or cognitive correlates of major depression, and (4) functional MRI of brain regions engaged across development. This is a US government work. There are no restrictions on its use.





Cognitive models indicate that there are multiple ways of completing the same task. This implicit degeneracy cannot be revealed by functional imaging studies of normal subjects if more than one of the sufficient neural systems is activated. Nor can it be detected by neuropsychological studies of patients because their performance might not be impaired when only one degenerate system is damaged. We propose that degenerate sets of sufficient neural systems can only be identified by an iterative approach that integrates the lesion-deficit model and functional imaging studies of normal and neurologically damaged subjects.
Emotional prosody is defined as the ability to express emotions through variations of different parameters of the human speech, such as pitch contour, intensity and duration. A recent study has discovered clear differences between men and women in the time course of emotional prosodic processing. There are several interpretations of these intriguing results that hold promise for future studies on language comprehension.
The ease with which genetic mutations can be induced in or introduced into mammalian organisms, such as the mouse, has created a significant need for phenotypic analysis. Developments in computer technology, instrumentation and bioinformatics, as well as in numerous neuroscience disciplines, will help to meet the demands set by the molecular revolution. As a result, the field of 'phenomics' is being born. This will integrate multidisciplinary research, with the goal of understanding the complex phenotypic consequences of genetic mutations at the level of the organism. This paper focuses on one of the disciplines that show promising developments, behavioral science.
Functional Brain Connectivity, held on 4-6 April 2002, Dusseldorf, Germany.
Galanin, a 29-amino-acid peptide expressed in dorsal root ganglia (DRG) and spinal dorsal horn interneurones, is regulated by nerve injury and peripheral inflammation. The functional significance of such regulation has been subject to intense studies, including the analysis of galanin null mice, with the production of apparently conflicting results. Here, we suggest that upregulation of galanin in DRG neurones following nerve injury results in antinociception via stimulation of galanin GAL1 receptors on dorsal horn neurones, and that the pro-nociceptive effect of galanin is related to presynaptic galanin GAL2 receptors on primary afferents. A selective GAL1 receptor agonist could therefore be valuable for the treatment of neuropathic pain.
A major limitation of embolic signal (ES) detection by transcranial Doppler ultrasound is the lack of a reliable automated system. The performance of an automated system needs to be evaluated for different embolic sources on consecutively acquired typical data. We evaluated a new online frequency filtering approach in a total of 565 h of data containing 925 ES from four groups of patients: post carotid endarterectomy (postCEA), symptomatic carotid stenosis (SCS), asymptomatic carotid stenosis (ACS) and atrial fibrillation (AF). The following sensitivities and specificities were achieved: postCEA = sensitivity 95.8%, specificity 88.2%; SCS = sensitivity 98.4%, specificity 88.6%; ACS = sensitivity 85.7%, specificity 13.0%; AF = sensitivity 54.8%, specificity 7.0%. This online automated system performed similarly to the human expert in the postCEA and SCS groups, but less well in patients with AF and ACS. The low ratio of ES to normal data in patients with ACS may have contributed to the lower specificity; further evaluation with a higher number of ES is required. Refinement of the algorithm is required to improve its sensitivity for AF data.
Previous studies have shown that catecholaminergic neurons in the nucleus tractus solitarius (NTS) with ascending projections to the subfornical organ (SFO) are highly sensitive to gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA). To clarify the role of the GABAergic system in the NTS in the regulation of the activity of noradrenergic NTS projections to the SFO, the present study was carried out to investigate the effects of local administration (50 nl) of GABA, the GABA(A) agonist muscimol, the GABA(B) agonist baclofen, the GABA(A) antagonist bicuculline or the GABA(B) antagonist phaclofen into the NTS on the release of noradrenaline (NA) in the region of the SFO using microdialysis techniques in rats under urethane anesthesia. Microinjections of GABA (10(-4) - 10(-2) M) into the region of the NTS significantly decreased the NA release in the SFO area. Injections of either muscimol (10(-4) - 10(-2) M) or baclofen (10(-5) - 10(-3) M) into the NTS region significantly attenuated the NA release in the SFO area. Injections of bicuculline (10(-5) and 10(-4) M), but not phaclophen (10(-6) - 10(-4) M), into the NTS region significantly enhanced the NA release in the SFO area, suggesting that the GABAergic system in the NTS may tonically inhibit the NA release in the SFO area through a GABA(A) receptor mechanism. Neither injection of these drugs in any of the doses used in this study into the NTS region caused any significant changes in the NA release in the sites away from the SFO. Injections of vehicle (50 nl) into the NTS region had no significant effect on the NA release in either the SFO area or the sites away from the SFO. These results suggest that the GABAergic system in the NTS may serve to decrease the release of NA in the SFO area and the two types of GABA receptors are involved in the modulation of the NA release.
Basic neurotransplantation research evoked clinical trials of restorative brain surgery. Parkinson's disease was the first and primary test bed for this putative new therapeutic method. Various centers performed the grafting surgery and the behavioral evaluations in different ways, and observed a varying degree of symptomatic relief. This led to a plea for double blind placebo-controlled clinical trials, which have since been performed and of which the first outcomes were recently published. In the present paper this approach of experimental neurotransplantation in brain diseases is discussed and rejected. Neural grafting in the central nervous system is irreversible and is therefore not suitable for experimental approaches originally designed for and best suited to drug studies. For Parkinson's disease in particular, the technique is far from optimized to perform large-scale studies at this stage. Moreover, previous negative results of adrenal medulla tissue implantation in the brain of patients make placebo effects rather unlikely. Moral arguments concerning the validity of the informed consent, therapeutic misconception, and the risk/benefit ratio can be added in the plea against this control surgery. Finally, a recommendation is made for study designs that apply a disease-dedicated core assessment protocol (CAP) that can evaluate the period from pre-operative to post-convalescent stages quantitatively, and therefore, unbiased. The strength of these CAPs is that they allow comparisons of different grafting techniques, of results between centers and of other types of interventions and invasive treatments such as deep brain stimulation. On ethical grounds, it is unacceptable not to use a study design that circumvents sham or imitation surgery. It is a challenge for the neuroscience community to develop CAPs for brain diseases that are eligible for neurotransplantation in the future.

Bartolomeo Panizza was the first person to produce experimental and clinical evidence for a visual area in the posterior cerebral cortex. We here provide the first translation of this work entitled &quot;Observations on the optic nerve&quot; originally published in Italian in 1855. We also review the state of knowledge of the brain around Panizza's time, summarize his career, and consider why his work was ignored.
Nerve growth factor (NGF) influences neuronal development, function, and response to injury. Using reverse transcriptase polymerase chain reaction, we find that mouse and rat cortex and spinal cord, and both neurons and glia in culture, express NGF mRNA. In the mouse, NGF is regulated by at least two promoters that govern synthesis of four different transcripts, A through D, that are all expressed in the mouse tissues and cells examined. In contrast, rat NGF expression varies with tissue and with cell type: transcript C is expressed strongly in brain but weakly in spinal cord, and transcript D is undetectable in rat central nervous system (CNS). In addition to species- and tissue-specific expression, NGF transcripts also exhibit cell type-specific expression: transcripts B, C and D are expressed in rat astrocytes but poorly or not at all in rat neurons, identifying glia as an important source of NGF in rat. NGF increases sharply after injury. TGF-beta1, which also increases immediately after injury, induces NGF mRNA and protein in rat and mouse glia but not in neurons. Furthermore, transcripts A, B and D, but not C, are upregulated by TGF-beta1 in mouse glia, whereas in rat glia, the major responsive transcript is C. Thus, there may be multiple TGF-beta1-responsive elements in the NGF promoters located upstream of exons 1 and 3 that may differ between mouse and rat. Moreover, NGF transcripts are differentially expressed in a species-, cell type-, and inducer-specific manner. These results have implications for the use of mice versus rats as models for the study of NGF regulation following CNS injury.
Nodes of Ranvier in myelinated fibers exhibit a complex architecture in which specific molecules organize in distinct nodal, paranodal and juxtaparanodal domains to support saltatory conduction. The clustering of sodium channel Na(v)1.6 within the nodal membrane has led to its identification as the major nodal sodium channel in myelinated axons. In contrast, much less is known about the molecular architecture of nonmyelinated fibers. In the present study, Na(v)1.6 is shown to be a significant component of nonmyelinated PNS axons. In DRG C-fibers, Na(v)1.6 is distributed continuously from terminal receptor fields in the skin to the dorsal root entry zone in the spinal cord. Na(v)1.6 is also present in the nerve endings of corneal C-fibers. Analysis of compound action potential recordings from wildtype and med mice, which lack Na(v)1.6, indicates that Na(v)1.6 plays a functional role in nonmyelinated fibers where it contributes to action potential conduction. These observations indicate that Na(v)1.6 functions not only in saltatory conduction in myelinated axons but also in continuous conduction in nonmyelinated axons.
L7/Pcp-2 is a GoLoco domain protein that modulates the activation of Galpha(i) and Galpha(o). We have previously described the Purkinje cell-specific expression of the Pcp-2(L7) gene and the abundant localization of its mRNA in mouse cerebellar Purkinje cell dendrites. Here we report on two alternative cerebellar forms of the L7/Pcp-2 mRNA and protein by examination of the gene structures and cDNA sequences of the mouse, rat, and human genes. The structures of the rodent and human genes are very similar with the most notable difference in the genomic configuration of the first exon. Despite this difference, the human and rodent genes both encode two alternative mRNAs due to the choice of two transcriptional start positions. The two mRNA forms, in turn, predict two forms of the L7/Pcp-2 protein, which are both highly conserved across species. These two protein forms differ with respect to the number of GoLoco domains. Lastly we examined the issue of mRNA localization in dendrites. In mouse both mRNA forms are detectable in dendrites but their relative proportions change during development. In addition we performed in situ hybridization on a developmental series of human cerebellar sections and demonstrate that the L7/Pcp-2 mRNA is also localized in dendrites of humans. As previously described in the mouse the dendritic localization in humans is developmentally regulated being most prominent during the peak phase of synaptogenesis and decreasing dramatically with age. The conservation of all of these properties of both the L7/Pcp-2 protein and mRNA highlights their likely importance in controlling the development and/or motor control function of Purkinje cells.
Under antidepressive treatment with amitryptiline (100 mg/d) a 71-year old woman developed delirious symptoms, hyponatremia and a grand mal seizure followed by cardiovascular arrest. A few month later she ingested 48 mg reboxetine with suicidal intent. Overdosing of reboxetine, a selective noradrenaline re-uptake inhibitor, proceeded without complications.
Growth cone motility and guidance depend on the dynamic reorganization of filamentous actin (F-actin). In the growth cone, F-actin undergoes turnover, which is the exchange of actin subunits from existing filaments. However, the function of F-actin turnover is not clear. We used jasplakinolide (jasp), a cell-permeable macrocyclic peptide that inhibits F-actin turnover, to study the role of F-actin turnover in axon extension. Treatment with jasp caused axon retraction, demonstrating that axon extension requires F-actin turnover. The retraction of axons in response to the inhibition of F-actin turnover was dependent on myosin activity and regulated by RhoA and myosin light chain kinase. Significantly, the endogenous myosin-based contractility was sufficient to cause axon retraction, because jasp did not alter myosin activity. Based on these observations, we asked whether guidance cues that cause axon retraction (ephrin-A2) inhibit F-actin turnover. Axon retraction in response to ephrin-A2 correlated with decreased F-actin turnover and required RhoA activity. These observations demonstrate that axon extension depends on an interaction between endogenous myosin-driven contractility and F-actin turnover, and that guidance cues that cause axon retraction inhibit F-actin turnover.
We examined developmental characteristics of the ATP-binding cassette transporter ABCA2 (or ABC2) -expressing cells in rat spinal cord and peripheral nerves. In adult spinal cord, ABCA2 immunoreactivity was detected in lysosome-like organelles of mature oligodendrocyte cell bodies, and a single specific band was detected by Western blot analysis. In postnatal developing spinal cord, ABCA2 immunolabeling was first detected in a small number of cells restricted to the ventral marginal area and the dorsal funiculus at birth (P0). ABCA2-positive cells were co-immunolabeled by O4, a marker for late progenitor and immature oligodendrocytes. At the same time, myelin basic protein was apparent in the same restricted regions. The number of ABCA2 and O4 co-immunolabeled cells increased quickly in both dorsal and ventral regions from P2 and reached a peak at P8. After transient expression from P0 to P8, O4 labeling in white matter tracts decreased and disappeared. In contrast, ABCA2-positive oligodendrocytes persisted in gray and white matter throughout the spinal cord into adulthood. These data suggest a role for the ABCA2 transporter in maturation of oligodendrocyte lineage cells and the onset of myelination in the central nervous system. In addition, ABCA2 immunoreactivity was detected in the ciliated region of the ependyma in the central canal from early postnatal development. ABCA2 immunoreactivity was also detected in the Schwann cell lineage in developing spinal nerves and in adult trigeminal and sciatic nerves. ABCA2 was also expressed in numerous undetermined cells distributed in para-nerve connective tissues and nerve sheaths throughout early postnatal development. These data indicate multiple levels of involvement for ABCA2 in nervous system development especially with strong evidence for a role in myelination.


While the mechanisms are not fully understood, olfactory bulbectomy (OBX) is a well-known rat model of depression and depression-related disorders such as anxiety and aggression. Alterations in neuropeptide Y (NPY) levels in the brain have been linked to depression and have been shown to be involved in the response to stress. This study explored the possible regulation of NPY immunoreactivity in specific regions of the amygdala 14 days after OBX in adult male Sprague-Dawley rats (n=6). Unilateral OBX and immunohistochemistry permitted comparisons of NPY in the ipsilateral amygdala with NPY in the contralateral (sham) amygdala. OBX resulted in significant increases (P&lt;0.05) in NPY immunoreactivity in the anterior medial amygdala (threefold) and the posterior medial amygdala (2.5-fold). These regions receive projections from the accessory olfactory bulb (AOB). In contrast, the anterior and posterolateral cortical nuclei of the amygdala receive projections from the main olfactory bulb (MOB). NPY was not increased in these nuclei. These data show that not only does OBX increase NPY immunoreactivity in the amygdala, but also suggest that the AOB plays a prominent role in this regulation.
Increased oxidative damage and mitochondrial dysfunction have been suggested to play critical roles in the pathogenesis of progressive supranuclear palsy (PSP) yet the specific intracellular defects which cause and can result from these oxidative and bioenergetic defects remain unclear. To extend our previous PSP cybrid findings, we measured electron transport chain (ETC) activities in cell lines expressing mitochondrial genes from patients with PSP. Further, we measured changes in mitochondrial membrane potential as well as lipid peroxidation in PSP and control cybrids in response to mitochondrial toxins. We observed significant decreases in complex I+III activity in PSP cybrids as well as significant increases in markers of lipid oxidative damage as compared to control cybrids. These results coupled with previous reports from this and other laboratories strongly suggest contributory roles of mitochondrial dysfunction and oxidative damage in PSP, possibly due to genetic abnormalities and/or damage of mitochondrial DNA.
pH-induced closure of connexin43 (Cx43) channels involves interaction of the Cx43 carboxyl-terminal (Cx43CT) with a separate &quot;receptor&quot; domain. The receptor location and structure and whether the interaction is directly intramolecular are unknown. Here we show resonant mirror technology, enzyme-linked sorbent assays, and nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) experiments demonstrating pH-dependent binding of Cx43CT to region 119-144 of Cx43 (Cx43L2), which we propose is the receptor. NMR showed that acidification induced alpha-helical order in Cx43L2, whereas only a minor modification in Cx43CT structure was detected. These data provide the first demonstration of chemically induced structural order and binding between cytoplasmic connexin domains.
The expression of acetylcholinesterase (AChE) is markedly increased during myogenic differentiation of C2C12 myoblasts to myotubes; the expression is mediated by intrinsic factor(s) during muscle differentiation. In order to analyze the molecular mechanisms regulating AChE expression during myogenic differentiation, a approximately 2.2-kb human AChE promoter tagged with a luciferase reporter gene, namely pAChE-Luc, was stably transfected into C2C12 cells. The profile of promoter-driven luciferase activity during myogenic differentiation of C2C12 myotubes was found to be similar to that of endogenous expression of AChE catalytic subunit. The increase of AChE expression was reciprocally regulated by a cAMP-dependent signaling pathway. The level of intracellular cAMP, the activity of cAMP-dependent protein kinase, the phosphorylation of cAMP-responsive element binding protein and the activity of cAMP- responsive element (CRE) were down-regulated during the myotube formation. Mutating the CRE site of human AChE promoter altered the original myogenic profile of the promoter activity and its suppressive response to cAMP. In addition, the suppressive effect of the CRE site is dependent on its location on the promoter. Therefore, our results suggest that a cAMP-dependent signaling pathway serves as a suppressive element in regulating the expression of AChE during early myogenesis.
Tyrphostins are a family of tyrosine kinase inhibitors originally synthesized as potential anticarcinogenic compounds. Because tyrphostins have chemical structures similar to those of the phenolic antioxidants, we decided to test the protective efficacy of tyrphostins against oxidative stress-induced nerve cell death (oxytosis). Many commercially available tyrphostins, at concentrations ranging from 0.5 to 200 microm, protect both HT-22 hippocampal cells and rat primary neurons from oxytosis brought about by treatment with glutamate, as well as by treatment with homocysteic acid and buthionine sulfoximine. The tyrphostins protect nerve cells by three distinct mechanisms. Some tyrphostins, such as A25, act as antioxidants and eliminate the reactive oxygen species that accumulate as a result of glutamate treatment. These tyrphostins also protect cells from hydrogen peroxide and act as antioxidants in an in vitro assay. In contrast, tyrphostins A9 and AG126 act as mitochondrial uncouplers, collapsing the mitochondrial membrane potential and thereby reducing the generation of reactive oxygen species from mitochondria during glutamate toxicity. Finally, the third group of tyrphostins does not appear to be effective as antioxidants but rather protects cells by increasing the basal level of cellular glutathione. Therefore, the effects of tyrphostins on cells are not limited to their ability to inhibit tyrosine kinases.
Recent studies have demonstrated that genetic factors modify susceptibility to sporadic Parkinson's disease (PD). So far the results of candidate gene studies have been conflicting. It has been suggested that polymorphisms in apolipoprotein E (APOE), PARKIN and catechol-O-methyltransferase (COMT) genes might increase the risk of PD. We studied 147 Finnish non-demented patients with sporadic PD and 137 controls. APOE epsilon allele and genotype frequencies in PD patients did not differ significantly from controls. Three single nucleotide polymorphisms of the PARKIN gene and an intronic and an exonic (Val158Met) polymorphism of the COMT gene were studied. None of these polymorphisms showed association with PD in our series. In contrast to reports in oriental populations, our results do not support a major role of APOE, PARKIN and COMT polymorphisms in PD susceptibility in the Finnish population.
Genetic components are involved in the aetiology of schizophrenia. Activating Protein 2 (AP-2) transcription factors are essential for neural gene expression and neural development. Transcription factor AP-2beta has also been connected with monoaminergic genes and monoamine levels in various brain regions. Thus, the AP-2beta gene is a suitable candidate taking both the neurodevelopmental and dopamine hypotheses of schizophrenia into account. We investigated 135 schizophrenic patients and 382 control subjects with regard to an intronic AP-2beta variant without evidence of any association. We conclude that the investigated AP-2beta variant is not of major importance to schizophrenia in the investigated Swedish population.
Neurogenesis in the mammalian dentate gyrus occurs throughout life, is believed to be important for the laying down of episodic memory and diminishes significantly with increasing age. Pathological insults such as seizures, hypoxia and traumatic brain injury increase dentate neurogenesis compared to age matched controls. Using unilateral intracerebroventricular kainate we show that although baseline neurogenesis is significantly lower in 3 month old rats compared to 1 month old rats, kainate increases neurogenesis to reach similar levels in both age groups. Additionally, this effect is bilateral after a unilateral intracerebroventricular kainate injection. We conclude that the potential for dentate neurogenesis is maintained despite diminishing baseline levels with increasing age and that injury signals override the age related suppression of neurogenesis.

N-[3-(1H-Imidazol-4-ylmethyl)phenyl]ethanesulfonamide (ABT-866, 1) is a novel alpha(1) agent having the unique profile of alpha(1A) (rabbit urethra, EC(50) = 0.60 microM) agonism with alpha(1B) (rat spleen, pA(2) = 5.4) and alpha(1D) (rat aorta, pA(2) = 6.2) antagonism. An in vivo dog model showed 1 to be more selective for the urethra over the vasculature than A-61603 (2), ST-1059 (3, the active metabolite of midodrine), and phenylpropanolamine (4).
Regulation of synaptic strength is essential for neuronal information processing, but the molecular mechanisms that control changes in neuroexocytosis are only partially known. Here we show that the putative G protein-coupled receptor Methuselah (Mth) is required in the presynaptic motor neuron to acutely upregulate neurotransmitter exocytosis at larval Drosophila NMJs. Mutations in the mth gene reduce evoked neurotransmitter release by approximately 50%, and decrease synaptic area and the density of docked and clustered vesicles. Pre- but not postsynaptic expression of normal Mth restored normal release in mth mutants. Conditional expression of Mth restored normal release and normal vesicle docking and clustering but not the reduced size of synaptic sites, suggesting that Mth acutely adjusts vesicle trafficking to synaptic sites.


Interferon-beta and glatiramer acetate (GA) are the two main groups of drugs used in the treatment of MS. Notably, while both ultimately decrease CNS inflammation, they do so by very different mechanisms. Interferon-beta has potent activity at the blood-brain barrier and impairs the trafficking of inflammatory cells into the CNS. In contrast, GA has negligible effect at the blood-brain barrier, allowing GA-specific T helper 2 lymphocytes to enter the CNS to decrease inflammation through bystander suppression. Other differences are also emphasized. The presence of GA-reactive lymphocytes within the CNS parenchyma may have the additional benefit of conferring neuroprotection through protective autoimmunity.
To identify factors predictive of effective bilateral subthalamic nucleus (STN) stimulation for PD with severe motor complications, pre- and postoperative Unified PD Rating Scale (UPDRS) scores were analyzed in a series of 54 patients who received bilateral STN stimulation. Younger age and levodopa responsiveness predict a favorable response to bilateral STN stimulation. For individual PD symptoms, those that improve with a suprathreshold dose levodopa challenge are likely to improve with stimulation.
Ullrich disease is a form of congenital muscular dystrophy characterized clinically by generalized muscle weakness, contractures of the proximal joints, and hyperflexibility of the distal joints from birth or early infancy. Recently, mutations of the collagen VI gene have been associated with Ullrich disease. The authors report on a boy with Ullrich disease who has complete deficiency of collagen VI and harbors compound heterozygous mutations in the collagen VI alpha 2 gene. Absence of microfibrils on EM, together with normal collagen fibrils and basal lamina, suggests that loss of a link between interstitium and basal lamina may be a new molecular pathomechanism of muscular dystrophy.
Vagus nerve stimulation (VNS) therapy is an established method for treating patients with refractory seizures. Although the initial cost of the device is about 10,000 US dollars, the battery life of the model 100 implanted in the patients in this analysis can exceed 5 years at standard settings. It is important to understand what type of cost-benefit can be expected after implantation. Our aim was to assess unplanned hospital costs 18 months before and 18 months after VNS implantation in 43 patients. The VNS therapy system was implanted according to standard procedures and stimulation of 0.75 to 2.0 mA was delivered either as 30 seconds on and 5 minutes off or 7 seconds on and 14 seconds off. Seizure frequency was calculated before and after 18 months of treatment. During this time no changes were made with other therapies for epilepsy. Hospitalization for emergency room (ER) visits, ward stays, and intensive care days were calculated according to the costs at Sahlgrenska University Hospital in Sweden. Therapy response was defined as 25% or greater reduction in seizure frequency. For all patients, intensive care unit (ICU) costs were reduced from 46,875 to 0 US dollars, ER visits from 13,000 to 9,000 US dollars, and ward stays from 151,125 to 21,375 US dollars. Total hospital costs for the 43 patients studied before VNS therapy were 211,000 US dollars and after 18 months of treatment were reduced to 30,375 US dollars, an average annual cost savings of approximately 3,000 US dollars per patient. The cost savings applied to all patients, irrespective of whether they responded to VNS therapy. VNS therapy resulted in annual reductions of approximately 3000 US dollars in unplanned hospital costs per study patient. Such direct savings sustained over the battery life of the VNS therapy system can equal or exceed the purchase price of the device.
A critical phase of nervous system development is the formation of connections between axons and their synaptic targets. Intermediate targets play important roles in axon pathfinding by supplying growing axons with long- and short- range guidance cues at decision points along their trajectory. We recently identified Vema as a novel membrane-associated protein that is expressed at the ventral midline of the developing vertebrate central nervous system (CNS). We report that Vema is expressed in the floor plate, an intermediate target for pathfinding commissural axons located at the ventral midline of the developing mouse spinal cord. Interestingly, Vema expression overlaps with the position of an unique population of neurons situated at the midline of the ventral diencephalon and that function as intermediate targets for pathfinding retinal ganglion cell axons. The distribution of Vema in the developing spinal cord and optic chiasm resembles the expression patterns of a variety of molecules known to play important roles in axon guidance, including Robo2, Neuropilin2, and SSEA. The expression of Vema at two key choice points for pathfinding axons suggests an important role for this protein in regulating axon guidance at the midline of the developing mouse central nervous system.
Various inbred strains of mice exhibit dramatic differences in sensitivity to excitotoxic cell death induced by systemic injections of kainic acid (KA). The present study evaluates whether the same strains are also differentially sensitive to secondary degeneration after spinal cord injury, in which excitotoxic cell death is thought to play a pathogenic role. Spinal cord crush injuries were produced at T9 in two inbred strains that are resistant to KA-induced excitotoxic cell death (C57Bl/6 and Balb/c) and four strains that are sensitive (CD-1, FVB/N, 129T2 Sv/EMS, and C57Bl/10). The spinal cord was prepared for light microscopy at intervals from 1 to 56 days postinjury, and the area of damaged tissue (termed lesion size) and amount of cavitation were determined by quantitative image analysis. Lesion size increased between 1 and 7 days in all strains and then decreased steadily in a wound-healing process that occurs uniquely in mice. The extent of cavitation also gradually decreased from 7 to 56 days in all strains. Although lesion area and cavitation decreased in all strains, there were significant differences in lesion size and cavitation across strains. Specifically, lesion areas in the KA-sensitive strains FVB/N, 129T2 Sv/EMS, and CD-1 were significantly larger at 56 days postinjury than in the KA-resistant strains C57Bl/6 and Balb/c. We conclude that the genetic differences that confer resistance and sensitivity to KA-induced neurotoxicity also modify the secondary degenerative processes that occur after spinal cord injury, so that resistance to excitotoxic injury leads to smaller overall lesions and a more effective wound-healing response.
Visually recognizing objects at different orientations and distances has been assumed to depend either on extracting from the retinal image a viewpoint-invariant, typically three-dimensional (3D) structure, such as object parts, or on mentally transforming two-dimensional (2D) views. To test how these processes might interact with each other, an experiment was performed in which observers discriminated images of novel, computer-generated, 3D objects, differing by rotations in 3D space and in the number of parts (in principle, a viewpoint-invariant, 'non-accidental' property) or in the curvature, length or angle of join of their parts (in principle, each a viewpoint-dependent, metric property), such that the discriminatory cue varied along a common physical scale. Although differences in the number of parts were more readily discriminated than differences in metric properties, they showed almost exactly the same orientation dependence. Overall, visual performance proved remarkably lawful: for both long (2 s) and short (100 ms) display durations, it could be summarized by a simple, compact equation with one term representing generalized viewpoint-invariant parts-based processing of 3D object structure, including metric structure, and another term representing structure-invariant processing of 2D views. Object discriminability was determined by summing signals from these two independent processes.
Inflammation in skeletal muscle is a consistent feature of Lyme borreliosis, both in the human disease and experimental models. This study had two goals: to evaluate the expression of selected pro-inflammatory and chemokine genes in skeletal muscle in the Rhesus model of Lyme disease, and to identify unexpected cytokine genes involved in Lyme myositis. Two different techniques for measuring cytokine messenger RNA (mRNA) levels were used to achieve these goals: gene expression microarrays and. real-time RT-PCR (Taqman). Muscle from necropsies and biopsies were used, and were obtained from both infected and uninfected non-human primates (NHPs). Although many cytokines were found expressed in muscle tissue, pro-inflammatory cytokines commonly associated with inflammation were not consistently upregulated in infected muscles relative to uninfected muscles. However, B-lymphocyte chemoattractant (BLC), a chemokine implicated in the trafficking of B-cells into tissue, was increased in expression. This study is the first to extensively characterize cytokine gene expression in chronically inflamed tissue in Lyme borreliosis.
Digital video provides technological tools for monitoring hand kinematics during prehension, and for correlating motor behavior with the simultaneously recorded firing patterns of neurons in parietal cortex of monkeys. The constancy of the hand action in the task allowed us to derive population responses of neurons in both S-I and posterior parietal cortex (PPC) from serial single unit recordings. Activity of PPC neurons preceded that in S-I, and was often shape-selective for particular objects, suggesting that they play an important role in motor planning of prehension. Detailed sensory monitoring of hand-object interactions occurred in S-I, where distinct groups of neurons responded to specific behaviors such as grasping, lifting, holding or releasing objects.
We developed a method to quantify the probability of a target neuron discharge following synchronous or asynchronous discharges among a pair of reference neurons. To illustrate this method, we simultaneously recorded three neurons having overlapping receptive fields in the somatosensory system: two reference neurons in the thalamic ventrobasal complex and one target neuron in the secondary somatosensory (SII) cortex. Our results show that focal cutaneous stimulation elicits synchronized discharges among thalamic neurons having similar place and submodality properties. Conditional cross-correlation analysis of the reference and target spike trains indicates that thalamic synchronization increases cortical responsiveness. This result suggests that neuronal synchronization plays a critical role in transmitting sensory information from thalamus to the cerebral cortex.
In this brief review, the body of work on hand use and cortical plasticity is reviewed. The hand movements and sensory inputs are represented in the mammalian primary motor cortex and the anterior parietal strip. The dominant organizational rules are that representational area is proportional to peripheral innervation, and that cortical architecture is columnar with limited horizontal spread. The representational area and columnar structure can be shaped by behavior and other input manipulations. The central core systems, and especially cholinergic inputs, act as teachers of the cerebral cortex by marking behavioral reinforcers with the release of acetylcholine. This marking is both necessary and sufficient for plasticity to occur in sensory cortex. As a result of this temporal marking of reinforcing events, nearly coincident inputs over restricted sensory, or motor, segments form coherent representations in primary sensory or motor cortex. Focal dystonia is a problem in which overuse of the hand leads to a lack of motor control, and especially inappropriate use of sensory feedback for motor control. Receptive field size, and columnar architecture, are highly abnormal in this disorder. The deficiencies in focal dystonia, and their appropriate treatment, can be understood by applying the principles of cortical plasticity to the behavioural manipulations that cause focal dystonia.
The differing roles of SI and SII areas in the somatosensory system have received relatively little interest in previous research. In the present study fMRI was applied to determine possible changes in activations of these areas as a function of attentional modulation (attending vs. not attending to the stimulation of a finger). The results showed that attention induced larger regional changes, mostly enlargements of activated areas, at SII than at SI. The number of instances where new, emerging activations, not present in the non-attend condition, were observed was larger at SII than at SI. These differential attentional effects indicate that SII areas may have a role in more complex tactile functions such as tactile working memory mechanisms.
Two studies were carried out to assess the applicability of echoplanar fMRI at 3.0 T to the analysis of somatosensory mechanisms in humans. Vibrotactile stimulation of the tips of digits two and five reliably generated significant clusters of activation in primary (SI) and secondary (SII) somatosensory cortex, area 43, the pre-central gyrus, posterior insula, posterior parietal cortex and posterior cingulate. Separation of these responses by digit in SI was possible in all subjects and the activation sites reflected the known lateral position of the representation of digit 2 relative to that of digit 5. A second study employed microneurographic techniques in which individual median-nerve mechanoreceptive afferents were isolated, physiologically characterized, and microstimulated in conjunction with fMRI. Hemodynamic responses, observed in every case, were robust, focal, and physiologically orderly. These techniques will enable more detailed studies of the representation of the body surface in human somatosensory cortex, the relationship of that organization to short-term plasticity in responses to natural tactile stimuli, and effects of stimulus patterning and unimodal/cross-modal attentional manipulations. They also present unique opportunities to investigate the basic physiology of the BOLD effect, and to optimize the operating characteristics of two important human functional neuroimaging modalities-high-field fMRI and high-resolution EEG-in an unusually specific and well-characterized neurophysiological setting.
The studies discussed in this report investigate the neural mechanisms involved in processing a light tactile stimulus as measured by positron emission tomography (PET). This light tactile stimulus (a 2-Hz tap with a von Frey hair) produced a significant increase in regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF) in contralateral primary somatosensory cortex (SI) and bilateral secondary somatosensory cortex (SII), with a larger response in the side contralateral to the stimulus. Light tactile stimulation also produced activity in multiple discrete areas in the human inferior parietal lobule (IPL), which we believe to comprise a region homologous to the monkey area 7b or feline tertiary somatosensory cortex (SIII). Directing attention to the tactile stimulus increased blood flow to SIII and activated a right-lateralized cortical network, regardless of the side of body stimulated. Directed attention to the stimulus decreased blood flow to visual cortex, but minimally modulated SI rCBF.
In this paper we discuss how orientation is represented and transformed in the somatosensory system. Information about stimulus orientation plays an important role in sensory processing. In touch it provides critical information about how stimuli are positioned on the hand, which is important for grasping and lifting objects. It also provides important information about tactile shape. Psychophysical studies show that humans have a high capacity to discriminate the orientation of shapes and gratings indented into the finger pad. Further, these studies demonstrate that orientation discrimination is a reliable and stable method for assessing tactile spatial acuity. Neurophysiological studies suggest that orientation information is processed by the slowly adapting type 1 (SA1) afferent system. While orientation is poorly represented in the responses of individual afferent fibers, it is well represented in the population response properties of peripheral SA1 afferents and in the responses of central neurons in the primary (S1) and secondary (S2) somatosensory cortex. In S2, neurons with orientation selective and orientation non-selective responses tend to have large receptive fields that span multiple pads on multiple digits. Neurons in S2 that are orientation selective have similar tuning functions on different finger pads. These neurons may provide position-invariant responses or may be responsible for integrating features across hands, which is important for haptic object recognition of large shapes from the hand. Neurophysiological studies in trained animals show that the responses of about 85% of the neurons in S2 are affected by the animals focus of attention and that attention to the orientation of a bar modifies both the mean firing rate (i.e. gain) of neurons encoding orientation information and the degree of synchronous firing between pairs of neurons.
Over recent years, a wealth of neuroanatomical information on the pattern of interconnections between segregated areas of the cerebral cortex has become available. Here, we describe a set of structural measures, based on graph theory, which can be used to analyze these anatomical patterns. We describe relationships between these structural measures and measures based on patterns of functional connectivity, i.e. patterns of correlations in neural activity. We find that networks capable of producing highly complex functional dynamics share common structural motifs. These motifs are also found in cortical connection matrices, which are characterized by the existence of densely linked groups of areas, low potential wiring length, and a high abundance of reciprocal connections and short cycles. An analysis of cortical functional connectivity demonstrates the existence of functional clusters of highly interactive areas, producing highly complex dynamics. The combined structural and functional analysis outlined in this chapter provides insight into the large-scale functional organization of distributed cortical systems.
Reduction-oxidation (redox) state constitutes such a potential signaling mechanism for the regulation of an inflammatory signal associated with oxidative stress. Interleukin (IL)-10 has recently emerged as an anti-inflammatory cytokine with antioxidant properties. Interestingly, redox- and oxidant-mediated pathways positively and/or negatively regulate the expression, distribution, and functional properties of IL-10, thus, allowing the evolution of what is known as an anti-inflammatory redox-oxidant revolving axis. This axis is directly involved in regulating phosphorylation mechanisms, which eventually control gene expression and the biosynthesis of oxidative stress-related cofactors, such as reactive species and inflammatory cytokines. The association between IL-10, an anti-inflammatory antioxidant, with redox- and oxidant-related pathways governing the regulation of inflammatory and closely dependent processes is thereafter discussed.
Bcl-2 and Bax immunoreactivity were examined in the spinal nucleus of the bulbocavernosus (SNB), an androgen-sensitive motor pool of adult rats. Castration reduced Bcl-2 immunoreactivity and testosterone treatment of castrates prevented this decline. Hormone manipulations did not affect Bcl-2 or Bax staining in the retrodorsolateral nucleus (RDLN), a relatively androgen-insensitive nucleus at the same spinal level. Changes in Bcl-2 expression may underlie the hormonal control of cell death and/or neural plasticity in SNB motoneurons.
Excessive extracellular zinc may contribute to neuronal cell death following ischemia and seizures, although the mechanisms mediating zinc-induced cell death remain largely unknown. In this study, we examined potential cellular and molecular mechanisms associated with zinc neurotoxicity and determined the neuroprotective effects of the superoxide dismutase (SOD)/catalase mimetic, EUK-134. Cortical neuron cultures exposed to zinc for 24 h exhibited concentration-dependent increases in lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) release and number of apoptotic cell bodies. Both effects were prevented by treatment with EUK-134. Zinc exposure resulted in increased release of cytochrome c from the mitochondria into the cytosol. Treatment with EUK-134 blocked this parameter of mitochondrial dysfunction. Exposure of cultures to zinc for 4 h produced an elevation of reactive oxygen species (ROS) as determined by increased 2,7-dichlorofluorescein (DCF) fluorescence, which was followed by an increase in lipid peroxidation. EUK-134 completely attenuated ROS production and subsequent oxidative damage. Finally, zinc exposure activated NF-kappaB, an effect also prevented by EUK-134. These data indicate that multiple cellular and molecular mechanisms are involved in zinc neurotoxicity. As all these mechanisms appear to be sensitive to treatment with EUK-134, our data suggest that oxidative stress occurs early in the cascade of events triggered by zinc.
Damage to the basal forebrain frequently results in deficits in learning and memory. Mnenonic dysfunction also occurs following prolonged ethanol consumption in humans and in animal models of chronic ethanol intake, accompanied by specific abnormalities in synaptic transmission between the basal forebrain and hippocampus. The integrity of at least some of the reciprocal neuronal connections between these brain regions is influenced by target-derived neurotrophic factors. We used a semiquantitative reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction technique to measure the messenger RNA for neurotrophins BDNF and NGF, and for their receptors trkB, trkA, and the low affinity receptor, p75(NTR) in the hippocampus and basal forebrain of rats after 28 weeks of alcohol consumption without malnutrition. This chronic ethanol treatment (CET) resulted in a marked and selective reduction in basal forebrain trkA mRNA. Western blotting revealed a similar reduction of basal forebrain trkA protein. CET effects on basal forebrain trkA may reflect impaired NGF signaling that could compromise septohippocampal synaptic connections, cholinergic differentiation, and emergent functional abilities dependent on these properties.
We have previously shown with a model of morphine-induced conditioned place preference (CPP) that a brief exposure to footshock stress or a priming dose of morphine could reactivate drug-seeking behavior after a long drug-free period. The present study was designed to examine the possible role of certain brain areas in such a reactivation. After the rats were successfully trained with morphine (4 mg/kg, i.p.) through a CPP paradigm (10 sessions of daily pairing of morphine with one of the two compartments), different parts of nucleus accumbens (NAc), ventral tegmental area (VTA), and central (Ce) or lateral (La) nucleus of amygdala were lesioned with a DC current passing through the respective location. After a 9-day abstinence period, random intermittent footshock (DC square wave, 0.5 mA, 0.5 s width, off time 10-70 s) or drug priming (morphine 0.25 mg/kg, s.c.) reactivated the place preference in sham lesion rats. However, the effect of drug priming could be completely abolished by lesions placed either at VTA, or the majority or shell part, but not the core of NAc. On the other hand, the effect of footshock stressor could be eliminated by a lesion placed at Ce but not La. These results suggest that, while both drug priming and footshock stress are effective in reactivating drug-seeking behavior, they might work through different neurochemical mechanisms and anatomical pathways.
The Alzheimer's disease-linked gene presenilin 1 (PS1) is required for intramembrane proteolysis of APP and Notch. In addition, recent observations strongly implicate PS1 as a negative regulator of the Wnt/beta-catenin signaling pathway, although the mechanism underlying this activity is unknown. Here, we show that presenilin functions as a scaffold that rapidly couples beta-catenin phosphorylation through two sequential kinase activities independent of the Wnt-regulated Axin/CK1alpha complex. Thus, presenilin deficiency results in increased beta-catenin stability in vitro and in vivo by disconnecting the stepwise phosphorylation of beta-catenin, both in the presence and absence of Wnt stimulation. These findings highlight an aspect of beta-catenin regulation outside of the canonical Wnt-regulated pathway and a function of presenilin separate from intramembrane proteolysis.

The intramembranous proteolysis of Notch and the amyloid precursor protein by gamma-secretase exemplifies an unusual and newly recognized mechanism of signal transduction in multicellular organisms. Here, we show that only a form of nicastrin (NCT) containing N-linked complex oligosaccharides is present in active gamma-secretase complexes. Overexpression of NCT does not generate more of this mature protein, a phenomenon analogous to the strictly regulated formation of mature presenilin heterodimers from immature holoprotein. The absence of presenilin severely limits the maturation of NCT, yet combined overexpression of both proteins does not increase respective mature types. Taken together, our findings describe unusual regulatory features of this key signaling protease: the association of NCT with gamma-secretase is tightly regulated via glycosylation; at least one other cofactor exists; the least abundant member of the complex becomes limiting; and the cofactor that serves this role may vary by cell type.
DNA damage, an important initiator of neuronal death, has been implicated in numerous neurodegenerative conditions. We previously delineated several pathways that control embryonic cortical neuronal death evoked by the DNA-damaging agent, camptothecin. In this model, the tumor suppressor p53 and cyclin-dependent kinases (CDKs) are activated independently and cooperate to mediate the conserved death pathway. To further our understanding, we presently examined whether the c-Jun/JNK pathway modulates death and whether this pathway is regulated by CDKs, p53, and Bax. We show that c-Jun/JNK is activated following DNA damage. Moreover, the c-Jun pathway is one mediator of death, because expression of dominant negative c-Jun and cdc42, and JNK pathway inhibitors are neuroprotective. Although previous evidences indicate that JNK3 is required for neuronal death under certain conditions, we show that JNK3 deficiency only partially mediates c-Jun phosphorylation and its deficiency does not protect neurons from death. Interestingly, we provide evidence that CDK activity regulates c-Jun but does not affect upstream pathways that lead to JNK phosphorylation. Finally, c-Jun activation is independent of p53 and Bax. Accordingly, we propose that c-Jun is regulated by the JNK and CDK pathways and that both must be activated for efficient c-Jun activation to occur.
Although the fetus experiences severe hypoxia and ischemia during delivery, the fetal brain is protected from hypoxic-ischemic insults by unknown mechanisms. To investigate this phenomenon, fetal asphyxia was induced in pregnant rats by occlusion of the umbilical cord. Rather than producing cerebral hypoxia, the brainstem PO(2) of at-term fetuses increased following umbilical cord occlusion, while brainstem blood flow was markedly reduced. This paradoxical increase in brainstem PO(2) during asphyxia occurred in the majority of at-term fetuses, less frequently in fetuses 1 day prior to term and did not occur in animals following birth. Because occlusion of the umbilical cord prevents maternal delivery of oxygen to the fetus, we propose that the ability to maintain PO(2) is the result of pre-existing fetal stores of oxygen or from de novo generation of oxygen in the fetal brainstem.
Neuromedin B (NMB) is a bombesin-like peptide that exerts its function via NMB receptor (NMB-R). The NMB/NMB-R pathway is involved in the regulation of a wide variety of behaviors, such as spontaneous activity, feeding, and anxiety-related behavior. In the current study, we assessed the effects of stress on maternal behavior in female NMB-R-deficient mice. Non-stressed NMB-R-deficient and wild-type mice showed normal maternal behavior. However, immediately after undergoing restraint-induced stress (30 min) both genotypes of mice exhibited severely decreased maternal behaviors. Furthermore, 30 min after stress induction, maternal behavior in wild-type mice recovered to near normal levels whereas that of NMB-R-deficient mice remained significantly lower. These results indicate that NMB-R-deficient mice suffer more severely from stress and suggest that dysfunction in the NMB/NMB-R pathway may constitute one of the risk factors of stress vulnerability.
Amphiphysin II (Amph2) is known to undergo rapid dephosphorylation and phosphorylation at nerve terminals. After in vivo electroconvulsive shock (ECS) in the rat cerebellum, we found an electrophoretic mobility retardation of Amph2, which suggested an increased degree of phosphorylation above the non-stimulated level. This shifted signal was observed from 1 min, reached the maximum level at 5 min and extended beyond 2 h after ECS. The shifted band was markedly decreased by the phosphatase treatment. Pretreatment with cyclosporin A augmented the mobility retardation of Amph2 after ECS. Our results indicate that ECS induces the phosphorylation of Amph2 in the rat cerebellum.
Activation of the enzyme phospholipase C (PLC) leads to the formation of second messengers inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate and diacylglycerol. Tyrosine kinase receptors activate this reaction through PLCgamma isoenzymes. PLCgamma activity involves its activation with, and phosphorylation by, receptor tyrosine kinases. Recently, it has been shown that phosphoinositide 3-kinase (PI 3-K) may regulate PLCgamma activity through the interaction of the PI 3-K product phosphatidylinositol 3,4,5-trisphosphate (PtdIns-3,4,5-P(3)) and the PLCgamma pleckstrin homology (PH) domain. In an effort to understand the signalling pathway that involves PI 3-K regulation of PLCgamma, we found that EGF induces a PI 3-K-dependent translocation of PLCgamma1 at the leading edge of migrating cells in a wound healing assay. Similarly, the isolated PH, but not the Src-homology (SH) domains, N-SH2 or SH3, of PLCgamma1, translocates at the leading edge. Our experiments also showed that stable PH PLCgamma1 expression blocks epidermal growth factor (EGF)- and serum-induced cell motility and increases cell adhesion in MDA-MB-231 cells. This may suggest that influence of PI 3-K on PLCgamma1 could be relevant in cell migration, where PLCgamma1 seems to play a key role by modulating a series of events involved in actin polymerization.

Insects depend upon optic flow to supply much of their information about the three-dimensional structure of the world. Many insects use translational flow to measure the distance of objects from themselves. A recent study has provided new insights into the way Drosophila use optic flow to pick out a close target to approach.
Perception of movement in acoustic space depends on comparison of the sound waveforms reaching the two ears (binaural cues) as well as spectrotemporal analysis of the waveform at each ear (monaural cues). The relative importance of these two cues is different for perception of vertical or horizontal motion, with spectrotemporal analysis likely to be more important for perceiving vertical shifts. In humans, functional imaging studies have shown that sound movement in the horizontal plane activates brain areas distinct from the primary auditory cortex, in parietal and frontal lobes and in the planum temporale. However, no previous work has examined activations for vertical sound movement. It is therefore difficult to generalize previous imaging studies, based on horizontal movement only, to multidimensional auditory space perception. Using externalized virtual-space sounds in a functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) paradigm to investigate this, we compared vertical and horizontal shifts in sound location. A common bilateral network of brain areas was activated in response to both horizontal and vertical sound movement. This included the planum temporale, superior parietal cortex, and premotor cortex. Sounds perceived laterally in virtual space were associated with contralateral activation of the auditory cortex. These results demonstrate that sound movement in vertical and horizontal dimensions engages a common processing network in the human cerebral cortex and show that multidimensional spatial properties of sounds are processed at this level.
Phenotypic knockout of nerve growth factor (NGF) activity in transgenic anti-NGF mice (AD11 mice) results in a progressive neurodegenerative phenotype resembling Alzheimer's disease. In this article, we examine whether and how the progressive neurodegenerative phenotype of AD11 mice could be prevented or ameliorated by pharmacological treatments with NGF or the cholinergic agonist galantamine, at a relatively early phase of Alzheimer's disease-like neurodegeneration. We demonstrate that the neurodegeneration induced by the expression of anti-NGF antibodies in AD11 mice can be largely reversed by NGF delivery through an olfactory route.
A series of novel spiroketal-based NK(1) antagonists is described. The effect of modifications to the spiroether ring and aromatic substituents are discussed, leading to the identification of compounds with high affinity and excellent CNS penetration.
Alpha1-syntrophin is a member of the family of dystrophin-associated proteins; it has been shown to recruit neuronal nitric oxide synthase and the water channel aquaporin-4 to the sarcolemma by its PSD-95/SAP-90, Discs-large, ZO-1 homologous domain. To examine the role of alpha1-syntrophin in muscle regeneration, we injected cardiotoxin into the tibialis anterior muscles of alpha1-syntrophin-null (alpha1syn-/-) mice. After the treatment, alpha1syn-/- muscles displayed remarkable hypertrophy and extensive fiber splitting compared with wild-type regenerating muscles, although the untreated muscles of the mutant mice showed no gross histological change. In the hypertrophied muscles of the mutant mice, the level of insulin-like growth factor-1 transcripts was highly elevated. Interestingly, in an early stage of the regeneration process, alpha1syn-/- mice showed remarkably deranged neuromuscular junctions (NMJs), accompanied by impaired ability to exercise. The contractile forces were reduced in alpha1syn-/- regenerating muscles. Our results suggest that the lack of alpha1-syntrophin might be responsible in part for the muscle hypertrophy, abnormal synapse formation at NMJs, and reduced force generation during regeneration of dystrophin-deficient muscle, all of which are typically observed in the early stages of Duchenne muscular dystrophy patients.
Agrin is a nerve-derived factor that directs neuromuscular synapse formation, however its role in regulating interneuronal synaptogenesis is less clear. Here, we examine agrin's role in synapse formation between cholinergic preganglionic axons and sympathetic neurons in the superior cervical ganglion (SCG) using agrin-deficient mice. In dissociated cultures of SCG neurons, we found a significant decrease in the number of synapses with aggregates of presynaptic synaptophysin and postsynaptic neuronal acetylcholine receptor among agrin-deficient neurons as compared to wild-type neurons. Moreover, the levels of pre- and postsynaptic markers at the residual synapses in agrin-deficient SCG cultures were also reduced, and these defects were rescued by adding recombinant neural agrin to the cultures. Similarly, we observed a decreased matching of pre- and postsynaptic markers in SCG of agrin-deficient embryos, reflecting a decrease in the number of differentiated synapses in vivo. Finally, in electrophysiological experiments, we found that paired-pulse depression was more pronounced and posttetanic potentiation was significantly greater in agrin-deficient ganglia, indicating that synaptic transmission is also defective. Together, these findings indicate that neural agrin plays an organizing role in the formation and/or differentiation of interneuronal, cholinergic synapses.
The unipolar brush cell (UBC) is a type of glutamatergic interneuron in the granular layer of the cerebellum. The UBC brush and a single mossy fiber (MF) terminal contact each other within a cerebellar glomerulus, forming a giant synapse. Many UBCs receive input from extrinsic MFs, whereas others are innervated by intrinsic mossy terminals formed by the axons of other UBCs. In all mammalian species so far examined, the vestibulocerebellum is enriched of UBCs that are strongly immunoreactive for the calcium binding protein calretinin (CR) in both the somatodendritic and axonal compartment. UBCs have postsynaptic ionotropic glutamate receptors and extrasynaptic metabotropic glutamate receptors that immunocytochemically highlight their somatodendritic compartment and brush, respectively. In this study on the mouse cerebellum, we present evidence that immunoreactivities to CR and mGluR1alpha define two distinct UBC subsets with partly overlapping distributions in lobule X (the nodulus). In sections double-labeled for CR and mGluR1alpha, the patterns of distributions of CR(+)/mGluR1alpha(-) UBCs and CR(-)/mGluR1alpha(+) UBCs differed along the mediolateral and dorsoventral axes of the folium. Moreover, mGluR1alpha(+) UBCs outnumbered CR(+) UBCs. Both UBC subsets were mGluR2/3, GluR2/3, and NMDAR1 immunoreactive. The different distribution patterns of the two UBC subsets within lobule X suggest that expression of CR or mGluR1alpha by UBCs may be afferent-specific and related to the terminal fields of different vestibular MF afferents.
Cytogenesis in adult peripheral organs, and in all organs during development, occurs nearby basal laminae (BL) overlying connective tissue. Paradoxically, cytogenesis in the adult brain occurs primarily in the subependymal layer (SEL), a zone where no particular organization of BL and connective tissue has been described. We have reinvestigated the anatomy of the area considered the most neurogenic in the adult brain, the SEL of the lateral ventricle, in zones adjacent to the caudate putamen, corpus callosum, and lateral septal nucleus. Here, we report structural (confocal microscopy using laminin as a marker) and ultrastructural evidence for highly organized extravascular BL, unique to the SEL. The extravascular BL, termed fractones because of their fractal organization, were regularly arranged along the SEL and consisted of stems terminating in bulbs immediately underneath the ependyma. Fractones contacted local blood vessels by means of their stems. An individual fractone engulfed in its folds numerous processes of astrocytes, ependymocytes, microglial cells, and precursor cell types. The attachment site (base) of stems to blood vessels was extensively folded, overlying large perivascular macrophages that belong to a fibroblast/macrophage network coursing in the perivascular layer and through the meninges. In addition, collagen-1, which is associated with BL and growth factors during developmental morphogenetic inductions, was immunodetected in the SEL and particularly regionalized within fractones. Because macrophages and fibroblasts produce cytokines and growth factors that may concentrate in and exert their effect from the BL, we suggest that the structure described is implicated in adult neurogenesis, gliogenesis, and angiogenesis.
Five hundred twenty ganglion cells in an isolated whole-mount preparation of the mouse retina were labeled using the &quot;DiOlistic&quot; method (Gan et al. [2000] Neuron 27:219-225) and were classified according to their morphological properties. Tungsten particles coated with a lipophilic dye (DiI) were propelled into the whole-mount retina using a gene gun. When a dye-coated particle contacted the cell membrane, the entire cell was labeled. The ganglion cells were classified into four groups based on their soma size, dendritic field size, and pattern and level of stratification. Broadly monostratified cells were classified into three groups: RG(A) cells (large soma, large dendritic field), RG(B) cells (small to medium-sized soma, small to medium-sized dendritic field), and RG(C) cells (small to medium-sized size soma, medium-sized to large dendritic field). Bistratified cells were classified as RG(D). This study represents the most complete morphological classification of mouse retinal ganglion cells available to date and provides a foundation for further understanding of the correlation of physiology and morphology and ganglion cell function with genetically manipulated animals.
Wistar rats receiving intracerebroventricular infusion of the beta-amyloid protein (Abeta1-42) or of the inactive fragment (Abeta1-42) were subjected to the cross-maze task. According to the standard protocol, rats were released from the south arm and trained to collect food at the end of the east arm. After a 5-day training period, they were given a probe trial during which they were released from the north arm and allowed to choose either the east arm (place learning) or the west arm (response learning). Control rats showed predominant place learning whereas all rats receiving (Abeta1-42) showed response learning. These data indicate that exposure to (Abeta1-42) does not only impair cognitive responding but elicits strong procedural (motor-based) responding.
The NMDA receptor (NMDAR) is a Ca (2+)-permeable cation channel that plays a critical role in neural network formation during brain development. Since it is blocked in a voltage-dependent manner by extracellular Mg(2+), in order for the NMDA to be activated, the membrane must be strongly depolarized. Immature neurons in the developing neocortex can be depolarized by ligand-gated Cl(-) channels, such as the glycine receptor (GlyR) or GABA(A) receptor (GABA(A) R). We here assess the contribution of GlyRs to Ca(2+) influx via NMDARs in neonatal mouse cortical neurons. The GlyR antagonist, strychnine, was more effective in suppressing postsynaptic Ca(2+) influx than the GABA(A) R antagonist, picrotoxin, suggesting greater potentiation of NMDARs by GlyRs than by GABA(A) Rs. The GlyR, known to be endogenously activated at this stage, may play a critical role in neocortical development.
In this study, we examined the expression of insulin-like growth factor I (IGF-I) and its receptor (IGF-IR) in dorsal root ganglia (DRG) neurons in two rodent models of nerve injury: sciatic nerve axotomy and streptozotocin-induced (STZ) painful diabetic neuropathy. We demonstrate that IGF-I and its receptor are preferentially expressed in small (&lt; 25 microm diameter) DRG neurons. There is a significant down-regulation in the expression of IGF-I and IGF-IR in the small DRG neurons of STZ rats by 59% and 71%, respectively. A parallel reduction in expression is shown in axotomized &lt; 25 microm diameter DRG neurons for IGF-I (47%) but not for IGF-IR. The loss of IGF-I support to a population of predominantly nociceptive neurons may contribute to neuropathic pain observed in these models.
The present study examined the sleep-wake cycle effects of microinjections of yohimbine, an adrenergic antagonist, and atropine, a cholinergic antagonist, into the cerebral ventricle of clomipramine-induced depressed rats. Yohimbine microinjection caused a significant reduction in the total duration and the number of REM sleep episodes compared to control saline injections. Atropine microinjection caused a significant reduction in the total duration and the number of REM sleep episodes without changing the REM sleep latency compared to control saline microinjection. These results show for the first time that the REM sleep disturbances observed in clomipramine-treatment induced depressed rats can be attenuated by increasing and decreasing the brain noradrenergic and cholinergic activities, respectively.

This review was generated from discussions by the Pharmacologic and Somatic Treatments Section of the National Institute of Mental Health Strategic Plan for Mood Disorders Committee on advancing novel pharmacologic and somatic treatments for mood disorders. The opening section of the article summarizes in broad strokes, current pharmacologic treatments, and new directions in the field. Thereafter the topics focus on specific research initiatives that could advance the current therapeutics for mood disorders including new basic and clinical research in vivo human imaging procedures, somatic therapeutics, and the vast new area of pharmacogenetics. New scientific and technical opportunities exist today based on advances in basic neuroscience, opportunities in clinical testing, industry interest in advancing central nervous system therapeutics, and on active consumer advocacy groups. The question of how to bring all of these positive forces together to accelerate discovery in mood disorder thera-peutics is the topic of this article.
Approximately one half-century ago several classes of medications, discovered by serendipity, were introduced for the treatment of depression and bipolar disorder. These highly effective medications revolutionized our approach to mood disorders and helped launch the modern era of psychiatry. Yet our progress since those serendipitous discoveries has been disappointing. We still do not understand with certainty how those medications produce their desired clinical effects. We have not introduced newer medications with fundamentally different mechanisms of action than the older agents. We have not identified the genetic and neurobiological mechanisms underlying depression and mania, nor do we understand the mechanisms by which nongenetic factors influence these disorders. We have only a rudimentary understanding of the circuits in the brain responsible for the normal regulation of mood and affect, and of those circuits that function abnormally in mood disorders. In approaching these gaps in our knowledge, this workgroup highlighted four major areas for future investment. These include developing better animal models of mood disorders; identifying genetic determinants of normal and abnormal mood in humans and animals; discovering novel targets and biomarkers of mood disorders and treatments; and increasing the recruitment of investigators from diverse backgrounds to mood disorders research.
This report summarizes the deliberations of a panel with representation from diverse disciplines of relevance to the genetics of mood disorders. The major charge to the panel was to develop a strategic plan to employ the tools of genetics to advance the understanding, treatment, and outcomes for mood disorders. A comprehensive review of the evidence for the role of genetic factors in the etiology of mood disorders was conducted, and the chief impediments for progress in gene identification were identified. The National Institute of Mental Health (NIMH) portfolios in the Genetics Research Branch and the Division of Mental Disorders, Behavioral Sciences, AIDS, and all genetics training activities were reviewed. Despite some promising leads, there are still no confirmed linkage findings for mood disorders. Impediments to gene finding include the lack of phenotypic validity, variation in ascertainment sources and methodology across studies, and genetic complexity. With respect to linkage, the committee recommended that a large-scale, integrated effort be undertaken to examine existing data from linkage and association studies of bipolar disorders using identical phenotypes and statistical methods across studies to determine whether the suggestive linkage findings at some loci can be confirmed. Confirmation would justify more intensive approaches to gene finding. The committee recommended that the NIMH support continued efforts to identify the most heritable subtypes and endophenotypes of major depression using the tools of genetic epidemiology, neuroscience, and behavioral science. The field of genetic epidemiology was identified as an important future direction because population-based, epidemiologic studies of families and unrelated affected individuals assume increasing importance for common chronic diseases. To prepare for shifts to more complex genetic models, the committee recommended that the NIMH develop new interdisciplinary training strategies to prepare for the next generation of genetics research.
The gene expression profile in the cortex was analyzed in a rat model of focal cerebral ischemia by use of cDNA array. It was attempted to monitor changes of gene expression and to profile them into functional classification between ipsilateral and contralateral cortex at 6h after middle cerebral artery (MCA) occlusion. Seventy-one genes out of 1174 genes were significantly modulated by ischemia. Metabolism-, cell communication- and signal transduction-related genes were down-regulated, whereas genes involved in stress response were markedly increased. Besides numerous established ischemia-induced gene products such as macrophage inflammatory protein-1 alpha (MIP-1 alpha), orphan nuclear receptor Nurr 77, secretogranin II (SCG-II), and tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha), several genes were identified which have not previously been shown to be modulated following focal ischemia; these genes include interferon-induced protein (IFN-IP), neurodegeneration-associated protein-1 (NDGAP-1), and neuronal pentraxin receptor (NPR). The RT-PCR analyses of these genes at various time points revealed that mRNA level of IFN-IP was up-regulated, while NDGAP-1 and NPR were transcriptionally down-regulated. The results suggest of the involvement of these genes in neuronal cell damage caused by ischemia and the potential use as targets for the development of preventives/therapeutics of brain stroke.

Previous work from our lab has documented a sex difference in neuron number in the binocular region of the adult rat primary visual cortex (Oc1B), with males having 19% more neurons than females. In the present study, the role of developmental steroid hormones in the formation of this difference was explored. Male and female rats underwent neonatal hormone manipulation (female + testosterone or dihydrotestosterone; male + flutamide) followed by gonadectomy on postnatal day 20. Animals that did not undergo hormone manipulation were either gonadectomized or sham operated at day 20. Neuron number was quantified in the monocular (Oc1M) and binocular (Oc1B) subfields of the adult rat primary visual cortex using the optical disector technique. As adults, day 20 gonadectomized females, as well as females + testosterone and females + dihydrotestosterone, had significantly more neurons than intact females. There was no difference in neuron number between postnatal day 20 gonadectomized males, males + flutamide, and intact males. Also, intact males had significantly more neurons than intact females in both in Oc1M and Oc1B. It appears that ovarian steroids after day 20 are the primary cause of the lower number of neurons in the primary visual cortex of the female rat.
Hereditary spastic paraplegia (HSP) is a clinically and genetically heterogeneous condition, characterised principally by progressive spasticity of the lower limbs. Forty percent of autosomal dominant (AD) pedigrees show linkage to the SPG4 locus on chromosome 2, which encodes spastin, an ATPase associated with diverse cellular activities (AAA) protein. We have performed a clinical and genetic study of three AD-HSP families linked to SPG4. Sequencing revealed three novel causative mutations. Two of the mutations were located in exon 5 (a 1-base pair (bp) insertion and a 5-bp deletion), resulting in frameshift and premature termination of translation, with the predicted protein lacking the entire AAA functional domain. The 5-bp deletion was associated with a later onset and mild cerebellar features. The third mutation was a 3-bp deletion in exon 9, resulting in the loss of a highly conserved phenylalanine residue within the AAA cassette and an apparently milder phenotype. This is the first example of a deletion of an amino acid in spastin.
Several authors have recently reported a broad cognitive impairment in autosomal dominant cerebellar ataxias (ADCAs) patients. However, only a few studies on neuropsychological features in spinocerebellar ataxia type 2 (SCA2) patients are present in the current literature. The aim of this study is to evaluate the cognitive impairment in a wide sample of SCA2 patients and to verify the role of different disease-related factors (age of onset, disease duration, and clinical severity) on intellectual abilities. We administered a battery of neuropsychological tests assessing handedness, attention, short- and long-term verbal and visuo-spatial memory, executive functions, constructive abilities, general intellectual abilities and depression to 18 SCA2 patients belonging to eight families who came to our observation. Evidence of impaired verbal memory, executive functions and attention was found. The cognitive status was partially related to clinical severity rather than to disease duration or age at onset of symptoms. We partially confirmed data on cognitive defects already reported by others but we also found defective attention skills as well as significant lower performances in a nonverbal intelligence task.
Recent reviews highlight a longstanding controversy about how different taste qualities are coded in the CNS. To address this issue, we have analyzed gustatory coding in the relatively simple and accessible nervous system of the locust, in which neural responses and gustatory elicited behavior are readily comparable. The intracellular responses of a population of spiking local interneurons in the metathoracic ganglion that receive monosynaptic inputs from chemosensory afferents were analyzed in response to stimulation with droplets of four behaviorally relevant chemicals: sodium chloride, sucrose, lysine glutamate, and nicotine hydrogen tartrate. There was a significant positive correlation between chemical concentration and response duration and the number of spikes evoked in 81% of interneurons sampled. The threshold of sensitivity to different chemicals varied but was consistent between all interneurons tested, being most sensitive to nicotine hydrogen tartrate and least sensitive to sucrose. Each interneuron responded similarly to specific chemicals at single concentrations. Interneurons that responded phasically to one chemical responded similarly to others, whereas interneurons that responded phasotonically to one stimulus also did so to others. Hindleg motor neurons also responded in a concentration-dependent manner to all test chemicals. Therefore, we found no interneurons or motor neurons that responded only to specific chemicals. We discuss the responses of the local circuit neurons in relation to the known chemically evoked behavioral responses of locusts and suggest that the aversiveness of a chemical, rather than its identity, is encoded directly in the local circuits.
A substantial literature implicates the anterior and mediodorsal (limbic) thalamic nuclei and the reciprocally interconnected areas of cingulate cortex in learning, memory, and attentional processes. Previous studies have shown that limbic thalamic lesions severely impair discriminative avoidance learning and that they block development of training-induced neuronal activity in the cingulate cortex. The present study investigated the possibility that the limbic thalamus and cingulate cortex are involved in reward-based discriminative approach learning, wherein head-extension responses yielding oral contact with a drinking spout that was inserted into the conditioning chamber after a positive conditional stimulus (CS+) were reinforced with a water reward but responses to the spout after a negative conditional stimulus (CS-) were not reinforced. In this task, the rabbits learned primarily to omit their prepotent responses to the spout on CS- trials. Acquisition was severely impaired in rabbits given limbic thalamic lesions before training. As during avoidance learning, posterior cingulate cortical neurons of control rabbits developed learning-related neuronal responses to task-relevant stimuli, but this activity was severely attenuated in rabbits with lesions. These results support a general involvement of the cingulothalamic circuitry in instrumental approach and avoidance learning. The fact that learning consisted of response omission indicated that the cingulothalamic role is not limited to acquisition or production of active behavioral responses, such as locomotion. It is proposed that cingulothalamic neurons mediate associative attention, wherein enhanced neuronal responses to stimuli associated with reinforcement facilitate the selection and production of task-relevant responses.
DeltaFosB is a transcription factor that accumulates in a region-specific manner in the brain after chronic perturbations. For example, repeated administration of drugs of abuse increases levels of DeltaFosB in the striatum. In the present study, we analyzed the effect of spontaneous wheel running, as a model for a natural rewarding behavior, on levels of DeltaFosB in striatal regions. Moreover, mice that inducibly overexpress DeltaFosB in specific subpopulations of striatal neurons were used to study the possible role of DeltaFosB on running behavior. Lewis rats given ad libitum access to running wheels for 30 d covered what would correspond to approximately 10 km/d and showed increased levels of DeltaFosB in the nucleus accumbens compared with rats exposed to locked running wheels. Mice that overexpress DeltaFosB selectively in striatal dynorphin-containing neurons increased their daily running compared with control littermates, whereas mice that overexpress DeltaFosB predominantly in striatal enkephalin-containing neurons ran considerably less than controls. Data from the present study demonstrate that like drugs of abuse, voluntary running increases levels of DeltaFosB in brain reward pathways. Furthermore, overexpression of DeltaFosB in a distinct striatal output neuronal population increases running behavior. Because previous work has shown that DeltaFosB overexpression within this same neuronal population increases the rewarding properties of drugs of abuse, results of the present study suggest that DeltaFosB may play a key role in controlling both natural and drug-induced reward.
Alpha7-nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (nAChRs) are widely expressed in the vertebrate nervous system. alpha7-nAChR functions include postsynaptic transmission, modulating neurotransmitter release, reinforcing nicotine addiction, and a role in neurological disorders, such as schizophrenia and Alzheimer's disease. In chick parasympathetic ciliary ganglion (CG) neurons, alpha7-nAChRs are excluded from the synapse and localize perisynaptically. Despite their extrasynaptic distribution, the highly Ca2+-permeable alpha7-nAChRs have important synapse-related Ca2+-dependent signaling functions in the CG. We show here that the synaptic partners regulate alpha7-nAChR expression during synapse formation in embryonic CG neurons in situ. The absence of inputs and target tissues cause reductions in alpha7-nAChR mRNA and protein levels that primarily resemble those seen for synaptic alpha3-nAChRs. However, there is a difference in their regulation. alpha7-nAChR levels are downregulated by reduced activity, whereas alpha3-nAChR levels are not. We propose that the activity-dependent regulation of extrasynaptic alpha7-nAChR levels may be an important mechanism for postsynaptic CG neurons to detect changes in presynaptic activity levels and respond with Ca2+-dependent plasticity changes in gene expression.
In this study, adhesions on individual filopodial shafts were shown to control veil (lamellar) advance and to be modulated by guidance cues. Adhesions were detected in individual filopodia of sensory growth cones using optical recordings, adhesion markers, and electron microscopy. Veils readily advanced along filopodia lacking shaft adhesions but rarely advanced along filopodia displaying shaft adhesions. Experiments altering adhesion showed that this relationship is not caused by veils removing adhesions as they advanced. Reducing adhesion with antibodies decreased the proportion of filopodia with shaft adhesions and coordinately increased veil advance. Moreover, the inhibitory relationship was maintained: veils still failed to advance on individual filopodia that retained shaft adhesions. These results support the idea that shaft adhesions inhibit veil advance. Of particular interest, guidance cues can act by altering shaft adhesions. When a cellular cue was contacted by a filopodial tip, veil extension and shaft adhesions altered in concert. Contact with a Schwann cell induced veil advance and inhibited shaft adhesions. In contrast, contact with a posterior sclerotome cell prohibited veil advance and promoted shaft adhesions. These results show that veil advance is controlled by shaft adhesions and that guidance signal cascades can alter veil advance by altering these adhesions. Shaft adhesions thus differ functionally from two other adhesions identified on individual filopodia. Tip adhesions suffice to signal. Basal adhesions do not influence veil advance but are critical to filopodial initiation and dynamics. Individual growth cone filopodia thus develop three functionally distinct adhesions that are vital for both motility and navigation.
Excitotoxicity, resulting from the excessive release of glutamate, is thought to contribute to a variety of neurological disorders, including epilepsy. Excitotoxic damage to dendrites, i.e., dendrotoxicity, is often characterized by the formation of large dendritic swellings, or &quot;beads.&quot; Here, we show that hippocampal interneurons that express the neuropeptide somatostatin are highly vulnerable to the excitotoxic effects of the ionotropic glutamate receptor agonist kainate. Brief, focal iontophoretic application of kainate rapidly induced bead formation in dendrites of somatostatinergic interneurons that express green fluorescent protein (GFP) from mice of the transgenic line GIN (GFP-expressing inhibitory neurons). Surprisingly, beads often did not form at the site of kainate application or even in the dendritic segment to which kainate was applied; instead, dendritic beading occurred more distally, often encompassing all branches distal to the application site. We have termed this phenomena, &quot;distally directed dendrotoxicity.&quot; Distally directed beading was induced regardless of the branch order of the site of application and was found to be dependent on activation of voltage-gated sodium channels. Subsequent to induction, distally directed beading would reverse in most cells; in other cells, however, beading irreversibly invaded proximal dendritic segments and gradually encompassed the entire dendritic tree. These results demonstrate that distal dendritic segments are highly vulnerable to excitotoxic injury and imply that excessive excitatory activity originating in one synaptic pathway can impact synapses at more distal dendritic segments of the same neuron. The discovery of this phenomenon will likely be important in understanding interneuronal dysfunction following excitotoxic injury.
After injury to the substantia nigra pars compacta (SNpc), remaining neurons sprout to ensure normal dopamine delivery to the striatum. The consequent striatal reinnervation is highly regulated, with remaining cells sprouting so that density of dopamine terminals returns to normal. Sprouting as a result of injury is accompanied by a strong glial response; however, it is difficult to know whether this response is as a result of the injury or whether it is aiding in the sprouting. The two cytokines interleukin-1 (IL-1) and interleukin-6 (IL-6) are important modulators of the glia response. This study demonstrates their role in regulating the sprouting of dopaminergic neurons and the associated glia response as a means to examine the role of glia in sprouting. Sprouting was induced by 6-hydroxydopamine lesions of the SNpc and by haloperidol treatment (in the absence of injury). In wild-type animals, sprouting in association with microglial and astrocyte proliferation followed partial lesions of the SNpc and haloperidol treatment. Neither treatment evoked sprouting or glia proliferation in the type I IL-1 receptor-deficient mice, whereas in IL-6-deficient mice, both treatments resulted in glial proliferation but not sprouting. We conclude that IL-1 plays a role in modulating glia proliferation and thereby guidance and trophic factors for new fibers, whereas IL-6 may be important in triggering the outgrowth of new fibers. This study demonstrates that these cytokines play an important role in plasticity and regeneration that is separate from the inflammatory response associated with brain injury.
Sympathetic neuronal apoptosis after nerve growth factor (NGF) deprivation requires the activation of two events: a protein synthesis-dependent, Bax-dependent release of mitochondrial cytochrome c and a protein synthesis-independent, Bax-independent development of competence. Unlike in most cells, cytosolic cytochrome c is not sufficient to induce cell death in NGF-maintained sympathetic neurons but can do so in neurons that have developed competence. We report that cytosolic cytochrome c-induced apoptosis in competent sympathetic neurons is completely dependent on caspase-9. In addition, the neuroprotective agents KCl and chlorophenylthio-cAMP are potent inhibitors of the development-of-competence pathway in NGF-deprived sympathetic neurons. We also find that the development of competence is reversible. Readdition of NGF reverses competence, and neurons can regain their resistance to cytosolic cytochrome c. Importantly, we examined the mechanism of development of competence and report that the inability of cytochrome c to activate caspases in NGF-maintained sympathetic neurons can be overcome with exogenous Smac that inhibits the inhibitor of apoptosis (IAP) family of proteins. Microinjection of cytochrome c and Smac, but neither alone, induces rapid cell death in NGF-maintained neurons. These data suggest that development of competence may be the result of the loss of the function of one or more members of the IAP family of caspase inhibitors that is needed before cytochrome c can activate caspases and induce cell death in neurons.
Calmodulin (CaM) was identified as a KCNQ2 and KCNQ3 potassium channel-binding protein, using a yeast two-hybrid screen. CaM is tethered constitutively to the channel, in the absence or presence of Ca2+, in transfected cells and also coimmunoprecipitates with KCNQ2/3 from mouse brain. The structural elements critical for CaM binding to KCNQ2 lie in two conserved motifs in the proximal half of the channel C-terminal domain. Truncations and point mutations in these two motifs disrupt the interaction. The first CaM-binding motif has a sequence that conforms partially to the consensus IQ motif, but both wild-type CaM and a Ca2+-insensitive CaM mutant bind to KCNQ2. The voltage-dependent activation of the KCNQ2/3 channel also shows no Ca2+ sensitivity, nor is it affected by overexpression of the Ca2+-insensitive CaM mutant. On the other hand, KCNQ2 mutants deficient in CaM binding are unable to generate detectable currents when coexpressed with KCNQ3 in CHO cells, although they are expressed and targeted to the cell membrane and retain the ability to assemble with KCNQ3. A fusion protein containing both of the KCNQ2 CaM-binding motifs competes with the full-length KCNQ2 channel for CaM binding and decreases KCNQ2/3 current density in CHO cells. The correlation of CaM binding with channel function suggests that CaM is an auxiliary subunit of the KCNQ2/3 channel.
The role of small GTPases of the Rho family in synaptic functions has been addressed by analyzing the effects of lethal toxin (LT) from Clostridium sordellii strain IP82 (LT82) on neurotransmitter release at evoked identified synapses in the buccal ganglion of Aplysia. LT82 is a large monoglucosyltranferase that uses UDP-glucose as cofactor and glucosylates Rac (a small GTPase related to Rho), and Ras, Ral, and Rap (three GTPases of the Ras family). Intraneuronal application of LT (50 nm) rapidly inhibits evoked acetylcholine (ACh) release as monitored electrophysiologically. Injection of the catalytic domain of the toxin similarly blocked ACh release, but not when key amino acids needed for glucosylation were mutated. Intraneuronal application of competitive nucleotide sugars that differentially prevent glucosylation of Rac- and Ras-related GTPases, and the use of a toxin variant that affects a different spectrum of small GTPases, established that glucosylation of Rac is responsible for the reduction in ACh release. To determine the quantal release parameters affected by Rac glucosylation, we developed a nonstationary analysis of the fluctuations in postsynaptic response amplitudes that was performed before and after the toxin had acted or during toxin action. The results indicate that neither the quantal size nor the average probability for release were affected by lethal toxin action. ACh release blockage by LT82 was only caused by a reduction in the number of functional release sites. This reveals that after docking of synaptic vesicles, vesicular Rac stimulates a membrane effector (or effectors) essential for the fusion competence of the exocytotic sites.
Dopamine receptor subtypes D1 and D2, and many other seven-transmembrane receptors including adenosine receptor A2A, are colocalized in striatum of brain. These receptors stimulate or inhibit adenylyl cyclases (ACs) to produce distinct physiological and pharmacological responses and interact with each other synergistically or antagonistically at various levels. The identity of the AC isoform that is coupled to each of these receptors, however, remains unknown. To investigate the in vivo role of the type 5 adenylyl cyclase (AC5), which is preferentially expressed in striatum, mice deficient for the AC5 gene were generated. The genetic ablation of the AC5 gene eliminated &gt;80% of forskolin-induced AC activity and 85-90% of AC activity stimulated by either D1 or A2A receptor agonists in striatum. However, D1- or A2A-specific pharmaco-behaviors were basically preserved, whereas the signal cascade from D2 to AC was completely abolished in AC5(-/-), and motor activity of AC5(-/-) was not suppressed by treatment of cataleptic doses of the antipsychotic drugs haloperidol and sulpiride. Interestingly, both haloperidol and clozapine at low doses remarkably increased the locomotion of AC5(-/-) in the open field test that was produced in part by a common mechanism that involved the increased activation of D1 dopamine receptors. Together, these results suggest that AC5 is the principal AC integrating signals from multiple receptors including D1, D2, and A2A in striatum and the cascade involving AC5 among diverse D2 signaling pathways is essential for neuroleptic effects of antipsychotic drugs.
In mammals, long-term memory induced by Pavlovian fear conditioning has been shown to be dependent on the amygdala during a protein and mRNA synthesis-dependent phase of memory consolidation. We have used genes identified in a kainic acid model of synaptic plasticity as in situ hybridization probes during the consolidation period after fear conditioning. We found that these genes were transcriptionally regulated in several brain areas only when stimuli were presented in a manner that supported behavioral learning and not after unpaired presentations or footshocks alone. Immediate early genes and neurofilament mRNA peaked approximately 30 min after conditioning, as expected. Interestingly, nurr-1, alpha-actinin, and 16c8 increased approximately 2-4 hr later, whereas neurogranin and gephyrin decreased during that time. Our results suggest that fear memory consolidation occurs within a broad neural circuit that includes, but is not limited to, the amygdala. Together, a broad array of transcriptionally regulated genes, encoding transcription factors, cytoskeletal proteins, adhesion molecules, and receptor stabilization molecules, appear to mediate the neural plasticity underlying specific forms of long-term memory in mammals.
Using an animal model of drug relapse, we found that intermittent footshock stress reinstates alcohol seeking, an effect attenuated by the 5-HT reuptake blocker fluoxetine and by corticotropin-releasing factor (CRF) receptor antagonists. Here we studied the role of the 5-HT cell body region of the median raphe nucleus (MRN) and CRF receptors in this site in reinstatement of alcohol seeking. Rats were given alcohol in a two-bottle choice procedure (water vs alcohol) for 25 d and were then trained for 1 hr/d to press a lever for alcohol (12% w/v) for 23-30 d. Subsequently, lever pressing for alcohol was extinguished by terminating drug delivery for 5-9 d. Tests for reinstatement of alcohol seeking were then performed under extinction conditions. Intra-MRN infusions of 8-OH-DPAT [8-hydroxy-2-(di-n-propylamino)tetralin] (a 5-HT1A agonist that decreases 5-HT cell firing and release) reinstated alcohol seeking. Reinstatement of alcohol seeking also was observed after intra-MRN infusions of low doses of CRF (3-10 ng), which mimicked the effect of ventricular infusions of higher doses of the peptide (300-1000 ng). Finally, intra-MRN infusions of the CRF receptor antagonist d-Phe CRF (50 ng) blocked the effect of intermittent footshock (10 min) on reinstatement. These data suggest that an interaction between CRF and 5-HT neurons within the MRN is involved in footshock stress-induced reinstatement of alcohol seeking.
Odor input evokes characteristic, time-evolving (non-stationary) events in the spontaneously active central ganglia of the snail Helix pomatia. Assuming stationarity for the signals, one could, as the first approach, apply the Fourier-based methods, frequency amplitude characteristics (FAC) measures, for analyzing such events. We could thus for the first time describe such events in frequency and amplitude and show that the frequency, at which power increases most, is specific to the odor or its class [Comp. Biochem. Physiol. 123A (1999a) 95; Comp. Biochem. Physiol. 124A (1999b) 297]. Wavelet tools assume no record stationarity and are suitable for describing the dynamically evolving brain electrical signals precisely and quantitatively. We, therefore, tested these tools for the typical odor experiments with the procerebrum (PC), the pedal ganglion (PG) and the visceral ganglion (VG) of the Helix, which we earlier analyzed by the FAC measures and compared both results. The two basic findings of the present wavelet analysis are as follows: (i) the wavelet energy fluctuations clearly visualize dynamical interactions among the major bands (0.1-3.1 Hz), implying a possible 'mutual exclusion' between slow components &lt; 0.8 Hz and faster ones &gt; 0.8 Hz. (ii) Entropy behavior was characteristically different for each of the three brain regions. Only in PC the response to aversive odorants (decrease of entropy = more ordered state) is differentiated in entropy from that to attractive ones (increase of entropy=more disordered or more complexly ordered state) indicating the odor-discriminating function of this region. In VG entropy of the intrinsic activity is so high (highly disordered state) due to the strong wideband activity reaching &gt; 50 Hz that odor stimulation results mainly in lowering of entropy (= more ordered state) regardless of the nature of the odor. In PG, however, odor presentation generally increases entropy due to the robust, wide-band activation at &gt; 3 Hz (sensorimotor function) that is generated as a secondary, but dominant and robust, response. In respect to describing time evolution of different frequency band components the present wavelet tools can much more sensitively do so, as compared with the FAC measures. They can also characterize a change in the neuroelectrical state in terms of entropy.
The use of fluorescence-based calcium indicators has, over the years, unraveled important calcium-dependent mechanisms underlying neuronal function and development. However, difficulties associated with the loading of calcium indicators have limited their widespread use, particularly for the study of neuronal processing in the adult nervous system. Here, we show that in the central and peripheral nervous systems, populations of neurons and their processes, including dendritic spines and filopodia, can be labeled rapidly and efficiently by delivering calcium indicator-coated particles using a 'gene gun'. Importantly, neuronal labeling occurred both in vitro and in vivo, and across a wide range of ages and preparations. The labeled cells demonstrate spontaneous and evoked calcium transients, indicating that particle-mediated delivery is not deleterious to neuronal function. Furthermore, unlike loading with patch pipettes, cytoplasmic content is preserved following ballistic loading. This enables the study of calcium-dependent second messenger pathways without loss of signaling components. The ballistic delivery of calcium indicators thus opens up many new avenues for further exploration of the structure and function of the nervous system from single spines to neuronal networks.
Intracellular injection of Lucifer yellow into fixed brain slices is widely used to demonstrate dendritic morphology. A major limitation of this technique is that large dendritic arbors are usually truncated at the cut surfaces. Here we describe modifications that allowed us to obtain complete dendritic arbors of large spiny stellate cells. Lucifer Yellow cadaverine biotin-X (LY-X) was injected into individual neurons within 300-1000 microm thick aldehyde-fixed slices of kitten visual cortex. Subsequently, the LY-X was histochemically reacted using standard ABC methods to obtain a permanent record of the injected cells. Dendrites, studded with a variety of dendritic spines, were darkly labeled and well defined against virtually no background. Somatic spines, dendritic varicosities and growth cones were common in the younger animals. Computer-assisted reconstructions demonstrated that, in older animals, the dendritic arbors of cells injected in 300 microm slices were truncated, whereas the arbors of cells injected deep within thick slices were complete. The modifications described here remove the most critical limitation of intracellular injection in slices, allowing quantitative analysis of even large dendritic arbors.
The thalamocortical slice is widely employed for in vitro studies of cortical circuits. This preparation was developed in order to preserve anatomical and functional connectivity between the ventrobasal thalamus and somatosensory (whisker/barrel) cortex of young mice, and thalamocortical slice experiments have contributed significantly to our understanding of the thalamocortical synapse. Cortical somatotopy within thalamocortical slices, however, has not been characterized, and this greatly limits their use in studies that require identification of cortical areas associated with particular regions of the sensory periphery. To address this shortcoming we used electrophysiological recording and neuroanatomical labeling techniques in rats to mark the position of functionally defined whisker barrels, in vivo. We subsequently processed the brains in a plane appropriate for TC slices and characterized the location of somatotopically identified barrels in relation to other aspects of slice topology. We found that barrels associated with the large mobile whiskers occupy a particular location in TC slices, but that there are certain constraints to studying this portion of the barrelfield in vitro.
A distinct population of white matter progenitor cells (WMPCs), competent but not committed to generate oligodendrocytes, remains ubiquitous in the adult human subcortical white matter. These cells are present in both sexes and into senescence and may constitute as much as 4% of the cells of adult human capsular white matter. Transduction of adult human white matter dissociates with plasmids bearing early oligodendrocytic promoters driving fluorescent reporters permits the separation of these cells at high yield and purity, as does separation based on their expression of A2B5 immunoreactivity. Isolates of these cells survive xenograft to lysolecithin-demyelinated brain and migrate rapidly to infiltrate these lesions, without extending into normal white matter. Within several weeks, implanted progenitors mature as oligodendrocytes, and develop myelin-associated antigens. Lentiviral tagging with green fluorescent protein confirmed that A2B5-sorted progenitors develop myelin basic protein expression within regions of demyelination and that they fail to migrate when implanted into normal brain. Adult human white matter progenitor cells can thus disperse widely through regions of experimental demyelination and are able to differentiate as myelinating oligodendrocytes. This being the case, they may constitute appropriate vectors for cell-based remyelination strategies.
A method of inducing dopamine (DA) neurons from mouse embryonic stem (ES) cells by stromal cell-derived inducing activity (SDIA) was previously reported. When transplanted, SDIA-induced DA neurons integrate into the mouse striatum and remain positive for tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) expression. In the present study, to optimize the transplantation efficiency, we treated mouse ES cells with SDIA for various numbers of days (8-14 days). SDIA-treated ES cell colonies were isolated by papain treatment and then grafted into the 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA)-lesioned mouse striatum. The ratio of the number of surviving TH-positive cells to the total number of grafted cells was highest when ES cells were treated with SDIA for 12 days before transplantation. This ratio revealed that grafting cell colonies was more efficient for obtaining TH-positive cells in vivo than grafting cell suspensions. When we grafted a cell suspension of 2 x 10(5), 2 x 10(4), or 2 x 10(3) cells into the 6-OHDA-lesioned mouse striatum, we observed only a few surviving TH-positive cells. In conclusion, inducing DA neurons from mouse ES cells by SDIA for 12 days and grafting cell colonies into mouse striatum was the most effective method for the survival of TH-positive neurons in vivo.
Bone marrow stromal stem cells (MSCs) normally differentiate into mesenchymal derivatives but recently have also been converted into neurons, classical ectodermal cells. To begin defining underlying mechanisms, we extended our characterization of MSCs and the differentiated neurons. In addition to expected mesodermal mRNAs, populations and clonal lines of MSCs expressed germinal, endodermal, and ectodermal genes. Thus, the MSCs are apparently &quot;multidifferentiated&quot; in addition to being multipotent. Conversely, the differentiating neurons derived from populations and clonal lines of MSCs expressed the specific markers beta-III tubulin, tau, neurofilament-M, TOAD-64, and synaptophysin de novo. The transmitter enzymes tyrosine hydroxylase and choline acetyltransferase were localized to neuronal subpopulations. Our observations suggest that MSCs are already multidifferentiated and that neural differentiation comprises quantitative modulation of gene expression rather than simple on-off switching of neural-specific genes.
Treatment of cultured ventricular zone (VZ) progenitor cells with bone morphogenetic protein-4 (BMP4) promoted cell death in a dose-dependent manner. VZ progenitor cells became progressively more resistant to the proapoptotic effects of BMP4 between E10 and E16, and, by E18 and thereafter, BMP4 treatment no longer led to progenitor cell death. BMP4 treatment of E13 progenitor cells promoted expression of msx2 and p21(CIP1/WAF1) (p21) and inhibition of expression of either gene prevented BMP4-mediated apoptosis. Treatment of E18 cells with BMP4 failed to induce apoptosis but still induced expression of low levels of msx2 and p21. Knockout of bax significantly reduced but did not prevent BMP4-mediated death of E13 murine progenitor cells. These observations indicate that msx2 and p21 mediate the proapoptotic effects of BMP4 on VZ progenitor cells and that each gene is necessary but insufficient to promote apoptosis.
Mechanisms that regulate neuron production in the developing mouse neocortex were examined by using a retroviral lineage marking method to determine the sizes of the lineages remaining in the proliferating population of the ventricular zone during the period of neuron production. The distribution of clade sizes obtained experimentally in four different injection-survival paradigms (E11-E13, E11-E14, E11-E15, and E12-E15) from a total of over 500 labeled lineages was compared with that obtained from three models in which the average behavior of the proliferating population [i.e., the proportion of cells remaining in the proliferative population (P) vs. that exiting the proliferative population (Q)] was quantitatively related to lineage size distribution. In model 1, different proportions of asymmetric, symmetric terminal, and symmetric nonterminal cell divisions coexisted during the entire developmental period. In model 2, the developmental period was divided into two epochs: During the first, asymmetric and symmetric nonterminal cell divisions occurred, but, during the second, asymmetric and symmetric terminal cell divisions occurred. In model 3, the shifts in P and Q are accounted for by changes in the proportions of the two types of symmetric cell divisions without the inclusion of any asymmetric cell divisions. The results obtained from the retroviral experiments were well accounted for by model 1 but not by model 2 or 3. These findings demonstrate that: 1) asymmetric and both types of symmetric cell divisions coexist during the entire period of neurogenesis in the mouse, 2) neuron production is regulated in the proliferative population by the independent decisions of the two daughter cells to reenter S phase, and 3) neurons are produced by both asymmetric and symmetric terminal cell divisions. In addition, the findings mean that cell death and/or tangential movements of cells in the proliferative population occur at only a low rate and that there are no proliferating lineages &quot;reserved&quot; to make particular laminae or cell types.

Axons in Wld(S) mutant mice are protected from Wallerian degeneration by overexpression of a chimeric Ube4b/Nmnat (Wld) gene. Expression of Wld protein was independent of age in these mice. However we identified two distinct neuromuscular synaptic responses to axotomy. In young adult Wld(s) mice, axotomy induced progressive, asynchronous synapse withdrawal from motor endplates, strongly resembling neonatal synapse elimination. Thus, five days after axotomy, 50-90 % of endplates were still partially or fully occupied and expressed endplate potentials (EPPs). By 10 days, fewer than 20 % of endplates still showed evidence of synaptic activity. Recordings from partially occupied junctions indicated a progressive decrease in quantal content in inverse proportion to endplate occupancy. In Wld(s) mice aged &gt; 7 months, axons were still protected from axotomy but synapses degenerated rapidly, in wild-type fashion: within three days less than 5 % of endplates contained vestiges of nerve terminals. The axotomy-induced synaptic withdrawal phenotype decayed with a time constant of approximately 30 days. Regenerated synapses in mature Wld(s) mice recapitulated the juvenile phenotype. Within 4-6 days of axotomy 30-50 % of regenerated nerve terminals still occupied motor endplates. Age-dependent synapse withdrawal was also seen in transgenic mice expressing the Wld gene. Co-expression of Wld protein and cyan fluorescent protein (CFP) in axons and neuromuscular synapses did not interfere with the protection from axotomy conferred by the Wld gene. Thus, Wld expression unmasks age-dependent, compartmentally organised programmes of synapse withdrawal and degeneration.
Glycogen synthase kinase-3 (GSK-3) is a highly conserved serine/threonine protein kinase that is involved in the signal transduction cascades of multiple cellular processes. GSK-3 has two isoforms, designated alpha and beta. GSK-3beta protein levels and GSK-3 enzyme activity have been reported to be reduced by over 40% in postmortem frontal cortex of schizophrenic patients. GSK-3 is also present in peripheral tissue such as lymphocytes. In this study we aimed to find whether the reduction in brain GSK-3beta measures is reflected in peripheral tissue of schizophrenic patients. Fresh lymphocytes from schizophrenic patients showed no difference in GSK-3 alpha and GSK-3beta mRNA levels, GSK-3beta protein levels, or total GSK-3 (alpha+beta) enzyme activity compared with findings in control subjects. In addition, lymphocyte-derived cell lines from schizophrenic patients did not differ in their GSK-3beta protein levels from levels in normal control subjects. The results rule out the use of lymphocyte GSK-3 as a marker for central GSK-3 abnormalities in schizophrenia.
Schizophrenia patients have demonstrated deficits in affect recognition. Whether this deficit is part of a general difficulty in face perception or a specific problem in affect recognition is debatable. However, there is little research investigating the functional consequences of difficulties in identifying emotion in schizophrenia patients. We tested 20 chronic, medicated schizophrenia patients and 27 normal control participants on a battery of face recognition and affect recognition tasks. A subset of 14 patients was rated on the Social Dysfunction Index. Results demonstrated that schizophrenia patients were less accurate than normal control participants on face recognition, facial affect recognition and vocal affect recognition tasks, but among schizophrenia patients, only affect recognition performance was related to social functioning. These results suggest that schizophrenia patients have general face processing deficits, but affect recognition deficits may lead to more problems in social behavior.
Glutamatergic transmission in the nucleus accumbens (NAc) has been shown to be important for behavioral adaptations in response to drugs of abuse. NMDA-receptor dependent long-term potentiation (LTP) of glutamatergic synaptic transmission has been hypothesized to underlie many lasting alterations in behavior. Thus, we examined LTP in NAc core and find that it is developmentally regulated. Specifically, tetanus-evoked, NMDA receptor-dependent LTP is observed in the NAc of &quot;adolescent&quot; (3-week-old) mice more frequently than in adult (6-20-week-old) mice. In contrast, cAMP-dependent enhancement of transmission is not developmentally regulated. Removal of extracellular Mg(2+) restores LTP in adult NAc core, suggesting developmental regulation of induction processes rather than maintenance mechanisms. These findings are discussed in the context of behavioral changes elicited in response to drugs of abuse, which differ in adolescent vs. adult rodents and humans.
GHRH and IL1beta regulate sleep via the hypothalamus. However, actions of these substances on neurons are poorly understood. In this study, we found both GHRH (100 nM) and IL1beta (1.2 pM) acutely increased cytosolic Ca(2+) in 7.6 and 4.0% of cultured hypothalamic neurons tested, respectively, and 1.2% of neurons responded to both. The neurons that responded were mostly GABAergic (96, 81, and 100% for GHRH, IL1beta, and dual-responsive neurons, respectively).
Aurothioglucose (ATG) is presently employed both by clinicians in the treatment of advanced rheumatoid arthritis and by neuroscience researchers to generate lesions around the circumventricular organs (CVOs) of rodent brains, resulting in obese animals. Although the existence of such lesions is well documented, there is relatively little information concerning the changes over time of the different cell types in the regions surrounding the CVOs. To address this question, specific markers allowing identification of four distinct cellular populations were used to characterize respective changes over time. Generally, regions adjacent to the CVOs were more vulnerable than the CVOs themselves, while more caudal structures were more frequently lesioned than more anterior CVO regions. Vascular and glial cells appeared to be the initial targets of ATG, while neuronal cell death occurred subsequent to the inflammatory response. The results of this study help resolve the mechanism of ATG toxicity as reflected by a cascade of pathologies that is consistent with disparate cell types exhibiting specific changes at specific times.
Orphanin FQ/Nociceptin (OFQ/N), an endogenous peptide found throughout the central nervous system, has been attributed with a wide range of functions, including modulation of motivational and emotional behavior, but most prominently, facilitation of hyperalgesia. It has also been shown that brain OFQ/N is stimulated during locally-induced peripheral inflammation, a condition well known to increase pain sensitivity. However, few studies have addressed whether specific immunological challenge using T-cell dependent and independent stimuli alters OFQ/N gene activation in the brain. Consequently, male C57BL/6J mice were challenged with 5 microg of lipopolysaccharide (LPS) or a T-cell-activating bacterial superantigen, Staphyloccocal enterotoxin A (SEA), and levels of brain OFQ/N precursor, pNOC, mRNA were analyzed by semi-quantitative RT-PCR. In addition, nociceptive thresholds were examined in immunologically challenged mice using the hotplate test. Initial results on a combined region of the brain containing various limbic components, revealed increased levels of pNOC mRNA in response to SEA challenge, but not to LPS. Further analysis of more discrete brain regions revealed increased pNOC mRNA in the hypothalamus and amygdala in response to SEA. Interestingly, challenge with SEA, but not LPS, significantly reduced hindpaw-lick latency in the hot plate test, although this effect was observed only if the hotplate environment was unfamiliar, suggesting an interaction between immunological stimulation and novelty-induced stress. Since SEA induces various cytokines, including TNF-alpha, these results are consistent with a growing literature documenting the effects of cytokines on nociceptive functions, and a possible involvement of the OFQ/nociceptin system.
The pyrazolopyrimidine zaleplon is a hypnotic agent that acts at the benzodiazepine recognition site of GABA(A) receptors. Zaleplon, like the hypnotic agent zolpidem but unlike classical benzodiazepines, exhibits preferential affinity for type I benzodiazepine (BZ(1)/omega(1)) receptors in binding assays. The modulatory action of zaleplon at GABA(A) receptors has now been compared with those of zolpidem and the triazolobenzodiazepine triazolam. Zaleplon potentiated GABA-evoked Cl(-) currents in Xenopus oocytes expressing human GABA(A) receptor subunits with a potency that was higher at alpha1beta2gamma2 receptors than at alpha2- or alpha3-containing receptors. Zolpidem, but not triazolam, also exhibited selectivity for alpha1-containing receptors. However, the potency of zaleplon at these various receptors was one-third to one-half that of zolpidem. Zaleplon and zolpidem also differed in their actions at receptors containing the alpha5 or gamma3 subunit. Zaleplon, zolpidem, and triazolam exhibited similar patterns of efficacy among the different receptor subtypes. The affinities of zaleplon for [(3)H]flunitrazepam or t-[(35)S]butylbicyclophosphorothionate ([(35)S]TBPS) binding sites in rat brain membranes were lower than those of zolpidem or triazolam. Furthermore, zaleplon, unlike zolpidem, exhibited virtually no affinity for the peripheral type of benzodiazepine receptor.
We found in the present study that stimulation of the A(2A) adenosine receptor (A(2A)-R) using an A(2A)-selective agonist (CGS21680) rescued the blockage of nerve growth factor (NGF)-induced neurite outgrowth when the NGF-evoked MAPK cascade was suppressed by an MEK inhibitor (PD98059) or by a dominant-negative MAPK mutant (dnMAPK). This action of A(2A)-R (designated as the A(2A)-rescue effect) can be blocked by two inhibitors of protein kinase A (PKA) and was absent in a PKA-deficient PC12 variant. Activation of the cAMP/PKA pathway by forskolin exerted the same effect as that by A(2A)-R stimulation. PKA, thus, appears to mediate the A(2A)-rescue effect. Results from cAMP-response element-binding protein (CREB) phosphorylation at serine 133, trans-reporting assays, and overexpression of two dominant-negative CREB mutants revealed that A(2A)-R stimulation led to activation of CREB in a PKA-dependent manner and subsequently reversed the damage of NGF-evoked neurite outgrowth by PD98059 or dnMAPK. Expression of an active mutant of CREB readily rescued the NGF-induced neurite outgrowth impaired by dnMAPK, further strengthening the importance of CREB in the NGF-mediated neurite outgrowth process. Moreover, simultaneous activation of the A(2A)-R/PKA/CREB-mediated and the phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase pathways caused neurite outgrowth that was not suppressed by a selective inhibitor of TrkA, indicating that transactivation of TrkA was not involved. Collectively, CREB functions in conjunction with the phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase pathway to mediate the neurite outgrowth process in PC12 cells.
Among the several changes that occur in the aged brain is an increase in the concentration of the proinflammatory cytokine interleukin-1beta that is coupled with a deterioration in cell function. This study investigated the possibility that treatment with the polyunsaturated fatty acid eicosapentaenoic acid might prevent interleukin-1beta-induced deterioration in neuronal function. Assessment of four markers of apoptotic cell death, cytochrome c translocation, caspase-3 activation, poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase cleavage, and terminal dUTP nick-end staining, revealed an age-related increase in each of these measures, and the evidence presented indicates that treatment of aged rats with eicosapentaenoate reversed these changes as well as the accompanying increases in interleukin-1beta concentration and p38 activation. The data are consistent with the idea that activation of p38 plays a significant role in inducing the changes described since interleukin-1beta-induced activation of cytochrome c translocation and caspase-3 activation in cortical tissue in vitro were reversed by the p38 inhibitor SB203580. The age-related increases in interleukin-1beta concentration and p38 activation in cortex were mirrored by similar changes in hippocampus. These changes were coupled with an age-related deficit in long term potentiation in perforant path-granule cell synapses, while eicosapentaenoate treatment was associated with reversal of age-related changes in interleukin-1beta and p38 and with restoration of long term potentiation.
Thrombin receptors couple to G(i/o), G(q), and G(12/13) proteins to regulate a variety of signal transduction pathways that underlie the physiological role of endothelial cells in wound healing or inflammation. Whereas the involvement of G(i), G(q), G(12), or G(13) proteins in thrombin signaling has been investigated extensively, the role of G(o) proteins has largely been ignored. To determine whether G(o) proteins could contribute to thrombin-mediated signaling in endothelial cells, we have developed minigenes that encode an 11-amino acid C-terminal peptide of G(o1) proteins. Previously, we have shown that use of the C-terminal minigenes can specifically block receptor activation of G protein families (). In this study, we demonstrate that G(o) proteins are present in human microvascular endothelial cells (HMECs). Moreover, we show that thrombin receptors can stimulate [(35)S]guanosine-5'-O-(3-thio)triphosphate binding to G(o) proteins when co-expressed in Sf9 membranes. The potential coupling of thrombin receptors to G(o) proteins was substantiated by transfection of the G(o1) minigene into HMECs, which led to a blockade of thrombin-stimulated release of [Ca(2+)](i) from intracellular stores. Transfection of the beta-adrenergic kinase C terminus blocked the [Ca(2+)](i) response to the same extent as with G(o1) minigene peptide, suggesting that this G(o)-mediated [Ca(2+)](i) transient was caused by Gbetagamma stimulation of PLCbeta. Transfection of a G(i1/2) minigene had no effect on thrombin-stimulated [Ca(2+)](i) signaling in HMEC, suggesting that Gbetagamma derived from G(o) but not G(i) could activate PLCbeta. The involvement of G(o) proteins on events downstream from calcium signaling was further evidenced by investigating the effect of G(o1) minigenes on thrombin-stimulated stress fiber formation and endothelial barrier permeability. Both of these effects were sensitive to pertussis toxin treatment and could be blocked by transfection of G(o1) minigenes but not G(i1/2) minigenes. We conclude that the G(o) proteins play a role in thrombin signaling distinct from G(i1/2) proteins, which are mediated through their Gbetagamma subunits and involve coupling to calcium signaling and cytoskeletal rearrangements.
The enzyme, acetylcholinesterase, activity of the brain was measured in control and clomipramine-induced behaviorally depressed rats. Compared with control rats, the soluble form of acetylcholinesterase activity of the depressed rats was 31.8% higher in the hippocampus and 26.0% lower in the frontal cortex. However, the activity of soluble form of this enzyme was not significantly different in the hypothalamus, septum, and brainstem. These results suggest for the first time that the altered cholinergic activity in the specific areas of the brain may be involved in the behavioral depression observed in the rat model of human endogenous depression.

Homologation of analogues of the central excitatory neurotransmitter glutamic acid (Glu), in which the distal carboxy group has been bioisosterically replaced by acidic heterocyclic units, has previously provided subtype selective ligands for metabotropic Glu receptors (mGluRs). The (S)-form of the 1,2,5-thiadiazol-3-ol Glu analogue, 2-amino-3-(4-hydroxy[1,2,5]thiadiazol-3-yl)propionic acid (TDPA, 6), is an 2-amino-3-(3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolyl)propionic acid (AMPA) receptor agonist, which in addition stereospecifically activates group I mGluRs. We have now synthesized the (S)- and (R)-forms of 2-amino-4-(4-hydroxy[1,2,5]thiadiazol-3-yl)butyric acid (homo-TDPA, 7) and shown that whereas neither enantiomer interacts with AMPA receptors, (S)- and (R)-7 appear to be selective and equipotent agonists at group II mGluRs as represented by the mGluR2 subtype. The activities of (S)- and (R)-7 are rationalized by conformational analysis, comparison with the potent and specific group II mGluR agonist (-)-LY379268 [(-)-12], and docking to a homology model of mGluR2.
The bacterial AlkB protein is known to be involved in cellular recovery from alkylation damage; however, the function of this protein remains unknown. AlkB homologues have been identified in several organisms, including humans, and a recent sequence alignment study has suggested that these proteins may belong to a superfamily of 2-oxoglutarate-dependent and iron-dependent oxygenases (2OG-Fe(ii)-oxygenases). Here we show that AlkB from Escherichia coli is indeed a 2-oxoglutarate-dependent and iron-dependent DNA repair enzyme that releases replication blocks in alkylated DNA by a mechanism involving oxidative demethylation of 1-methyladenine residues. This mechanism represents a new pathway for DNA repair and the third type of DNA damage reversal mechanism so far discovered.
Utilizing a multielectrode array to record spontaneous and visually evoked activity of cortical neurons in area 17, we investigate the relationship between long-range correlated spontaneous activity and functional ocular dominance columns during early ferret postnatal development (P24-P29). In regions of visual cortex containing alternating ocular dominance patches, periodic fluctuations in correlated activity are observed in which spontaneous activity is most highly correlated between cortical patches exhibiting the same eye preference. However, these fluctuations are present even within large contralateral eye-dominated bands which lack any periodic alternations in ocular dominance. Thus, the organization of ocular dominance columns cannot fully account for the patterns of correlated activity we observe. Our results suggest that patterns of long-range correlated activity reflect an intrinsic periodicity of cortical connectivity that is constrained by segregated eye-specific LGN afferents.
Throughout the history of neuroscience, dendritic spines have been considered stable structures, but in recent years, imaging techniques have revealed that spines are constantly changing shape. Spine motility is difficult to categorize, has different forms, and possibly even represents multiple phenomena. It is influenced by synaptic transmission, intracellular calcium, and a multitude of ions and other molecules. An actin-based cascade mediates this phenomenon, and while the precise signaling pathways are still unclear, the Rho family of GTPases could well be a &quot;common denominator&quot; controlling spine morphology. One role of spine motility might be to enable a searching function during synaptogenesis, allowing for more efficacious neuronal connectivity in the neuronal thicket. This idea revisits concepts originally formulated by Cajal, who proposed over a hundred years ago that spines might help to increase and modify synaptic connections.
Fatty acids have prominent effects on mitochondrial energy coupling through at least three mechanisms: (i) increase of the proton conductance of the inner mitochondrial membrane; (ii) respiratory inhibition; (iii) opening of the permeability transition pore (PTP). Furthermore, fatty acids physically interact with membranes and possess the potential to alter their permeability; and they are also excellent respiratory substrates that feed electrons into the respiratory chain. Due to the complexity of their actions, the effects of fatty acids on mitochondrial function in situ are difficult to predict. We have investigated the mitochondrial and cellular effects of fatty acids of increasing chain length and degree of unsaturation in relation to their potential to affect mitochondrial function in situ and to cause cell death. We show that saturated fatty acids have little effect on the mitochondrial membrane potential in situ, and display negligible short-term cytotoxicity for Morris Hepatoma 1C1 cells. The presence of double bonds increases both the depolarizing effects and the cytotoxicity, but these effects are offset by the hydrocarbon chain length, so that more unsaturations are required to observe an effect as the hydrocarbon chain length is increased. With few exceptions, depolarization and cell death are due to opening of the PTP rather than to the direct effects of fatty acids on energy coupling.


With the use of double immunofluorescence, we have examined the distribution of oxytocin-containing neurons that express substance P receptor (SPR) in the hypothalamus of C57 mice. The distribution of oxytocin-like immunoreactive neurons overlapped with that of SPR-like immunoreactive neurons in the paraventricular nucleus and supraoptic nucleus of the hypothalamus. Neurons showing both oxytocin- and SPR-like immunoreactivities were predominantly found in both nuclei. A few neurons that were double-labeled with oxytocin- and SPR-like immunoreactivities were also scattered in the hypothalamic periventricular and preoptic regions. Semi-quantitative analysis indicated that about 94% of the oxytocin-like neurons displayed SPR-like immunoreactivity. These double-labeled cells constituted about 91% of the SPR-like neurons in the aforementioned regions. The present study provides morphological evidence for tachykinin-induced modulation of oxytocin-containing neurons as mediated by substance P receptor in the hypothalamus of mammals.
Cannabinoid modulation of prefrontal cortex and hippocampus neuronal functioning has been correlated to the disruptive action of marijuana on memory tasks. This study investigates the effects of delta(9)-tetrahydrocannabinol (delta(9)-THC) on dopamine, glutamate and GABA levels in vivo by brain microdialysis in the prefrontal cortex. Delta(9)-THC (1 mg/kg, i.v.) significantly increased extracellular dopamine and glutamate levels and decreased GABA levels. These effects were prevented by the cannabinoid antagonist SR141716A (1 mg/kg, i.v.), which per se was ineffective. These results suggest that delta(9)-THC disrupt the normal interplay between neurotransmitters in this area and may bear relevance in understanding neuronal mechanisms underlying cannabinoid-induced cognitive deficits.
Fos immunocytochemistry was combined with immunolabeling for dopamine-beta-hydroxylase (DBH) to examine neuronal activation in the medulla and pons after administration of polyethelene glycol (PEG), which produces volume depletion without altering arterial blood pressure. Increased Fos immunoreactivity was observed in the area postrema, nucleus of the solitary tract, rostral ventrolateral medulla, lateral parabrachial nucleus, and the dorsomedial pons at the level of the locus coeruleus. Fos immunolabeling in the caudal nucleus of the solitary tract, rostral ventrolateral medulla, and the dorsomedial pons occurred primarily in neurons that did not contain DBH. Thus, PEG activates non-catecholaminergic neurons in medullary and pontine areas associated with cardiovascular and body fluid regulation.
We investigated the effect of ovariectomy (OVX) and hormonal treatment for 10 weeks by estradiol and progesterone on muscarinic M(4) receptor subtype in different brain areas of female rats. Moreover, motor activity of OVX and hormone-treated rats was measured by automated open field exploration boxes. Receptor quantification in the hippocampus, frontal cortex, parietal cortex, amygdala and hypothalamus was done by receptor autoradiography using a selective ligand for muscarinic M(4) receptors. Ovariectomy up-regulated M(4) receptors in the dentate gyrus, CA1, CA3, frontal cortex and hypothalamus whereas the estrogen treatment restored M(4) binding to that of the sham group. Progesterone treatment had no effect on the ovariectomy-induced up-regulation of M(4) receptors. Ovariectomy significantly decreased the exploratory activity of the rats compared to the sham group. Estrogen treatment restored the exploratory behavior of the ovariectomized rats to that of the sham group whereas the progesterone-treated rats were less alert to the surrounding when compared to the sham and estrogen supplemented rats. The effect of estrogen on the hippocampal muscarinic M(4) receptor subtype is a novel finding and may have functional significance for cholinergic receptors especially in relation to postmenopausal memory problems and neurodegenerative disease like Alzheimer's disease.
The present study investigated the potential for neurotrophin uptake by cerebrovascular axons and subsequent accumulation in the aged superior cervical ganglion (SCG) following a two week intracerebroventricular infusion of nerve growth factor (NGF). In the SCG from aged rats, NGF protein levels declined significantly compared with the SCG from young adult rats. Following NGF infusion, perivascular axons from both young adult and aged rats showed intense NGF immunostaining. In addition, significant increases in NGF protein were shown using enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) and in counts of NGF immunopositive cell bodies in the SCG when compared with age-matched controls. NGF accumulation in ganglia from aged rats, however, was significantly less when compared with ganglia from young adult rats. The results of the present study suggest that NGF protein is significantly reduced in aged ganglia with the neurons retaining some capacity to take up and transport exogenous neurotrophin. Even so, the potential for NGF accumulation is dramatically reduced in aged rats when compared with that of young adult rats. While previous results have shown robust NGF-induced neurotransmitter responses by sympathetic neurons from the aged animal, the present finding of reduced accumulation of NGF in aged sympathetic neurons suggests an age-related difference in the utilization or transport of NGF.
We hypothesize that in neurodegenerative disorders such as Alzheimer's disease and human immunodeficiency virus encephalitis the neuroprotective activity of fibroblast growth factor 1 (FGF1) against several neurotoxic agents might involve regulation of glycogen synthase kinase-3beta (GSK3beta), a pathway important in determining cell fate. In primary rat neuronal and HT22 cells, FGF1 promoted a time-dependent inactivation of GSK3beta by phosphorylation at serine 9. Blocking FGF1 receptors with heparinase reduced this effect. The effects of FGF1 on GSK3beta were dependent on phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (PI3K)-protein kinase B (Akt) because inhibitors of this pathway or infection with dominant negative Akt adenovirus blocked inactivation. Furthermore, treatment of neuronal cells with FGF1 resulted in ERK-independent Akt phosphorylation and beta-catenin translocation into the nucleus. On the other hand, infection with wild-type GSK3beta recombinant adenovirus-associated virus increased activity of GSK3beta and cell death, both of which were reduced by FGF1 treatment. Moreover, FGF1 protection against glutamate toxicity was dependent on GSK3beta inactivation by the PI3K-Akt but was independent of ERK. Taken together these results suggest that neuroprotective effects of FGF1 might involve inactivation of GSK3beta by a pathway involving activation of the PI3K-Akt cascades.
The effect of ghrelin, a recently characterized endogenous receptor agonist for growth hormone (GH) secretagogue receptors, on feeding and penile erection was compared with that of EP 80661, a peptide analogue of the GH secretagogue hexarelin, previously identified for its pro-erectile activity when injected into the paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus of male rats. Ghrelin (0.01-1 microg), but not EP 80661 (0.02-1 microg), was found to be particularly effective in enhancing feeding. The minimal effective dose of ghrelin was 0.1 microg, which increased food intake by 88%, while the maximal response (355% above control values) was found with 1 microg of the peptide. The enhancing effect of ghrelin on feeding was prevented by the prior administration of the neuropeptide Y Y5 receptor antagonist (DTyr(2), DThr(32)) neuropeptide Y (NPY, 10 microg), but not by the GH-RH receptor antagonist MZ-4-71 (10 microg), or by EP 91073, a hexarelin analogue that antagonizes the pro-erectile effect of EP 80661 (10 microg), given into the lateral ventricles. In contrast, ghrelin failed to induce penile erection at all doses tested, while EP 80661 induced penile erection in a dose-dependent manner. The pro-erectile effect of EP 80661 was prevented by EP 91073 (10 microg), but not by (DTyr(2), DThr(32)) NPY (10 microg) or by the GH-RH receptor antagonist MZ 4-71 (10 microg), given into the lateral ventricles. The present results provide further support to the hypothesis that the GH secretagogue receptors mediating feeding are different from those mediating penile erection and activated by pro-erectile EP peptides.
Deriving the quantity of items is an abstract form of categorization. To explore it, monkeys were trained to judge whether successive visual displays contained the same quantity of items. Many neurons in the lateral prefrontal cortex were tuned for quantity irrespective of the exact physical appearance of the displays. Their tuning curves formed overlapping filters, which may explain why behavioral discrimination improves with increasing numerical distance and why discrimination of two quantities with equal numerical distance worsens as their numerical size increases. A mechanism that extracts the quantity of visual field items could contribute to general numerical ability.

Chickens (Gallus gallus domesticus) and Japanese quail (Coturnix japonica), two closely related gallinaceous bird species, exhibit a form of vocalization-crowing-which differs between the species in two components: its temporal acoustic pattern and its accompanying postural motor pattern. Previous work utilizing the quail-chick chimera technique demonstrated that the species-specific characteristics of the two crow components are determined by distinct brain structures: the midbrain confers the acoustic pattern, and the caudal hindbrain confers the postural pattern. Crowing is induced by androgens, acting directly on androgen receptors. As a strategy for identifying candidate neurons in the midbrain and caudal hindbrain that could be involved in crow production, we performed immunocytochemistry for androgen receptors in these brain regions in both species. We also investigated midbrain-to-hindbrain vocal-motor projections. In the midbrain, both species showed prominent androgen receptor immunoreactivity in the nucleus intercollicularis, as had been reported in previous studies. In the caudal hindbrain, we discovered characteristic species differences in the pattern of androgen receptor distribution. Chickens, but not quail, showed strong immunoreactivity in the tracheosyringeal division of the hypoglossal nucleus, whereas quail, but not chickens, possessed strong immunoreactivity in a region of the ventrolateral medulla. Some of these differences in hindbrain androgen receptor distribution may be related to the species differences in the postural component of crowing behavior. The results of the present study imply that the spatial distribution of receptor proteins can vary even between closely related species. Such variation in receptor distribution could underlie the evolution of species differences in behavior.
According to the treadmill hypothesis, the rate of growth cone advance depends upon the difference between the rates of protrusion (powered by actin polymerization at the leading edge) and retrograde F-actin flow, powered by activated myosin. Myosin II, a strong candidate for powering the retrograde flow, is activated by myosin light chain (MLC) phosphorylation. Earlier results showing that pharmacological inhibition of myosin light chain kinase (MLCK) causes growth cone collapse with loss of F-actin-based structures are seemingly inconsistent with the treadmill hypothesis, which predicts faster growth cone advance. These experiments re-examine this issue using an inhibitory pseudosubstrate peptide taken from the MLCK sequence and coupled to the fatty acid stearate to allow it to cross the membrane. At 5-25 microM, the peptide completely collapsed growth cones from goldfish retina with a progressive loss of lamellipodia and then filopodia, as seen with pharmacological inhibitors, but fully reversible. Lower concentrations (2.5 microM) both simplified the growth cone (fewer filopodia) and caused faster advance, doubling growth rates for many axons (51-102 microm/h; p &lt;.025). Rhodamine-phalloidin staining showed reduced F-actin content in the faster growing growth cones, and marked reductions in collapsed ones. At higher concentrations, there was a transient advance of individual filopodia before collapse (also seen with the general myosin inhibitor, butanedione monoxime, which did not accelerate growth). The rho/rho kinase pathway modulates MLC dephosphorylation by myosin-bound protein phosphatase 1 (MPP1), and manipulations of MPP1 also altered motility. Lysophosphatidic acid (10 microM), which causes inhibition of MPP1 to accumulate activated myosin II, caused a contracted collapse (vs. that due to loss of F-actin) but was ineffective after treatment with low doses of peptide, demonstrating that the peptide acts via MLC phosphorylation. Inhibiting rho kinase with Y27632 (100 microM) to disinhibit the phosphatase increased the growth rate like the MLCK peptide, as expected. These results suggest that: varying the level of MLCK activity inversely affects the rate of growth cone advance, consistent with the treadmill hypothesis and myosin II powering of retrograde F-actin flow; MLCK activity in growth cones, as in fibroblasts, contributes strongly to controlling the amount of F-actin; and the phosphatase is already highly active in these cultures, because rho kinase inhibition produces much smaller effects on growth than does MLCK inhibition.
Recent studies focusing on basic visual attributes, such as luminance, colour and motion, are providing a starting point for investigating the relationship between perceptual and neural manifestations of attention.
Vimentin intermediate filaments move bi-directionally along microtubules in the cell. Recent work has identified the microtubule motor cytoplasmic dynein as the missing inward-directed motor that drives this movement.
Age-related macular degeneration (AMD) is a leading cause of irreversible vision loss in older individuals worldwide. The disease is characterized by abnormal extracellular deposits, known as drusen, that accumulate along the basal surface of the retinal pigmented epithelium. Although drusen deposition is common in older individuals, large numbers of drusen and/or extensive areas of confluent drusen represent a significant risk factor for AMD. Widespread drusen deposition is associated with retinal pigmented epithelial cell dysfunction and degeneration of the photoreceptor cells of the neural retina. Recent studies have shown that drusen contain a variety of immunomodulatory molecules, suggesting that the process of drusen formation involves local inflammatory events, including activation of the complement cascade. Similar observations in Alzheimer's disease (AD) have lead to the hypothesis that chronic localized inflammation is an important element of AD pathogenesis, with significant neurodegenerative consequences. Accordingly, the amyloid beta (A beta) peptide, a major constituent of neuritic plaques in AD, has been implicated as a primary activator of complement in AD. Here we show that A beta is associated with a substructural vesicular component within drusen. A beta colocalizes with activated complement components in these &quot;amyloid vesicles,&quot; thereby identifying them as potential primary sites of complement activation. Thus, A beta deposition could be an important component of the local inflammatory events that contribute to atrophy of the retinal pigmented epithelium, drusen biogenesis, and the pathogenesis of AMD.
The physiological meaning of the coexpression of adenosine A2A receptors and group I metabotropic glutamate receptors in gamma- aminobutyric acid (GABA)ergic striatal neurons is intriguing. Here we provide in vitro and in vivo evidence for a synergism between adenosine and glutamate based on subtype 5 metabotropic glutamate (mGluR5) and adenosine A2A (A2AR) receptor/receptor interactions. Colocalization of A2AR and mGluR5 at the membrane level was demonstrated in nonpermeabilized human embryonic kidney (HEK)-293 cells transiently cotransfected with both receptors by confocal laser microscopy. Complexes containing A2AR and mGluR5 were demonstrated by Western blotting of immunoprecipitates of either Flag-A2AR or hemagglutinin-mGluR5 in membrane preparations from cotransfected HEK-293 cells and of native A2AR and mGluR5 in rat striatal membrane preparations. In cotransfected HEK-293 cells a synergistic effect on extracellular signal-regulated kinase 1/2 phosphorylation and c-fos expression was demonstrated upon A2AR/mGluR5 costimulation. No synergistic effect was observed at the second messenger level (cAMP accumulation and intracellular calcium mobilization). Accordingly, a synergistic effect on c-fos expression in striatal sections and on counteracting phencyclidine-induced motor activation was also demonstrated after the central coadministration of A2AR and mGluR5 agonists to rats with intact dopaminergic innervation. The results suggest that a functional mGluR5/A2AR interaction is required to overcome the well-known strong tonic inhibitory effect of dopamine on striatal adenosine A2AR function.
We recently demonstrated that the major decapping activity in mammalian cells involves DcpS, a scavenger pyrophosphatase that hydrolyzes the residual cap structure following 3' to 5' decay of an mRNA. The association of DcpS with 3' to 5' exonuclease exosome components suggests that these two activities are linked and there is a coupled exonucleolytic decay-dependent decapping pathway. We purified DcpS from mammalian cells and identified the cDNA encoding a novel 40 kDa protein possessing DcpS activity. Consistent with purified DcpS, the recombinant protein specifically hydrolyzed methylated cap analog but did not hydrolyze unmethylated cap analog nor did it function on intact capped RNA. Sequence alignments of DcpS from different organisms revealed the presence of a conserved hexapeptide, containing a histidine triad (HIT) sequence with three histidines separated by hydrophobic residues. Mutagenesis analysis revealed that the central histidine within the DcpS HIT motif is critical for decapping activity and defines the HIT motif as a new mRNA decapping domain, making DcpS the first member of the HIT family of proteins with a defined biological function.
Protein that interacts with C-kinase alpha (PICK1) is a PDZ domain protein that interacts with many binding partners in the central nervous system (CNS), including activated protein kinase Calpha and subunits of the AMPA subtype of glutamate receptor. Almost nothing is known about the anatomic distribution of PICK1 in the intact adult CNS. By using PICK1 antisera and peroxidase immunocytochemistry, we report on the distribution of PICK1 in the ascending pathways of the central auditory system of the adult rat. PICK1-immunoreactivity (ir) was observed in many component nuclei of the central auditory system, including the dorsal cochlear nucleus, anteroventral cochlear nucleus, posteroventral cochlear nucleus, some divisions of the superior olivary complex, inferior colliculus, medial geniculate body, and primary auditory cortex. The general staining pattern for PICK1-immunoreactivity was somatodendritic with scattered puncta in neuropil and somatodendritic regions. The distribution of PICK1 partially overlaps with PKCalpha and glutamate receptor subunits such as GluR2. These data suggest that PICK1 may function in the regulation of PKCalpha and GluR2 localization in components of the rat auditory system, which may be a fundamental mechanism of synaptic transmission and/or plasticity. J. Comp. Neurol.



Two experiments indicate that prospective judgments of a temporal target are influenced by nontarget temporal features. The basic task was to reproduce a target interval marked by visual events. In addition, visual or auditory interfering events were delivered. Experiment 1 showed that temporal reproduction is shorter when the interfering events occupy a late rather than early position during the target interval, a result explained in terms of expectancy, which causes attention shifts. This study also revealed that similar trends are obtained whether the interfering event involves a specific task or is irrelevant. Experiment 2 confirmed the position effect, and showed that the duration of an irrelevant cue can influence judgment of the target interval, as if it were also timed without appropriate control.


The neurobiological mechanisms of opiate-induced reinforcement are still not completely understood. Over the past two decades, the vast majority of studies have focused on the role of the mesolimbic dopamine (DA) system. However, current studies strongly suggest that opiate actions on gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA)-ergic cells in both the ventral tegmental area (VTA) and the nucleus accumbens (NAcc) appear to play critical roles. In this review, we focus on the neurochemical substrates of opiate reinforcement and review the role of DA and non-DA substrates, including opioid, GABA, glutamate and serotonin on opiate-reinforced behaviour and the activity of dopaminergic and GABAergic neurons in the VTA and the NAcc.
This article describes the proceedings of a symposium at the 2001 RSA annual meeting in Montreal, Quebec, Canada. The cochairs were Fred O. Risinger and Christopher L. Cunningham. Presentations were as follows: (1) Place conditioning: understanding the motivational impact of stimuli, by Rick A. Bevins; (2) Role of historical factors in ethanol place conditioning, by Frank A. Holloway; (3) Ethanol place conditioning in mice: genetic and environmental influences, by Christopher L. Cunningham; and (4) Utilization of place conditioning for understanding the neuropharmacology of the rewarding effects of ethanol, by Fred O. Risinger.



Our previous studies suggested that the cytokine tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha) may act within the neural circuitry of the medullary dorsal vagal complex (DVC) to affect changes in gastric function, such as gastric stasis, loss of appetite, nausea, and vomiting. The definitive demonstration that endogenously generated TNF-alpha is capable of affecting gastric function via the DVC circuitry has been impeded by the lack of an antagonist for TNF-alpha. The present studies used localized central nervous system applications of the TNF-adsorbant construct (TNFR:Fc; TNF-receptor linked to the Fc portion of the human immunoglobulin IgG1) to attempt to neutralize the suppressive effects of endogenously produced TNF-alpha. Gastric motility of thiobutabarbital-anesthetized rats was monitored after systemic administration of lipopolysaccharide (LPS) to induce TNF-alpha production. Continuous perfusion of the floor of the fourth ventricle with TNFR:Fc reversed the potent gastroinhibition induced by LPS, i.e., central thyrotropin-releasing hormone-induced increases in motility were not inhibited. This disinhibition of gastric stasis was not seen after intravenous administration of similar doses of TNFR:Fc nor ventricular application of the Fc fragment of human immunoglobulin. These results validate our previous studies that suggest that circulating TNF-alpha may act directly within the DVC to affect gastric function in a variety of pathophysiological states.
The role of sympathetic nerves and nitric oxide (NO) in tempol-induced cardiovascular responses was evaluated in urethane-anesthetized sham and deoxycorticosterone acetate (DOCA)-salt-treated (DOCA-salt) rats. Tempol (30-300 micromol/kg iv), a superoxide (O) scavenger, decreased renal sympathetic nerve activity (RSNA), mean arterial pressure (MAP), and heart rate (HR) in DOCA-salt and sham rats. The antioxidants tiron and ascorbate did not alter MAP, HR, or RSNA in any rat. Tempol responses were unaffected after sham rats were treated with N(G)-nitro-L-arginine (L-NNA, 13 mg/kg). In DOCA-salt rats, L-NNA reduced tempol-induced depressor responses but not the inhibition of HR or RSNA. Tempol did not significantly decrease MAP, HR, or RSNA after hexamethonium (30 mg/kg iv) treatment in any rat. Dihydroethidine histochemistry revealed increased O levels in arteries and veins from DOCA-salt rats. Tempol treatment in vitro reduced O levels in arteries and veins from DOCA-salt rats. In conclusion, tempol-induced depressor responses are mediated largely by NO-independent sympathoinhibition in sham and DOCA-salt rats. There is an additional interaction between NO and tempol that contributes to depressor responses in DOCA-salt rats.
The fever response is blunted at near term. As the enzyme cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) plays a critical role in fever development, we measured its expression in rat hypothalamus during pregnancy and lactation. Western blot analysis revealed a 72-kDa COX-2-immunoreactive band in non-immune-challenged, pregnant rats at day 15 of pregnancy. In contrast, it was almost undetectable at near term and at lactation day 5. COX-2 was significantly induced at the 15th day of pregnancy and at the 5th lactating day after intraperitoneal lipopolysaccharide (50 microg/kg). However, this COX-2 induction was significantly reduced at near term compared with values before and after term. The protein levels of the EP3 receptor in the hypothalamus, one of the prostaglandin E(2) (PGE(2)) receptors suggested to be a key receptor for fever induction, were unaffected throughout the pregnancy and lactation in both non-immune-challenged and lipopolysaccharide-treated rats. These data suggest that suppression of fever at near term is associated with a significantly reduced induction of COX-2 by lipopolysaccharide, resulting in a reduced production of PGE(2). Altered expression of the EP3 receptor does not seem to be involved in this fever refractoriness at near term.




Recent evidence indicates that the hypothalamic control system of food intake involves many feeding-related neuropeptides. Melanin-concentrating hormone (MCH), one of a group of potent orexigenic peptides, is exclusively produced in neurons of the lateral hypothalamic area that give off fibers to the widespread brain regions. The receptor of MCH was recently identified to be localized in cell bodies and dendritic processes of particular neurons throughout the brain, in close spatial relation to MCH fibers. Leptin, an anorectic hormone secreted from the adipose tissue, acts on the specific receptor present on its target neurons in the brain, and suppresses the expression of both MCH and its receptor. Leptin receptor and STAT3, a transcription factor mediating the leptin signaling, are distributed in the widespread brain regions including the cerebral neocortex, hippocampal formation and lower brainstem as well as the hypothalamus where MCH fibers and the MCH receptor are abundantly present. These findings suggest that MCH exerts the effect through its specific receptor distributed throughout the brain and that the function of MCH is influenced by the condition of peripheral energy balance via leptin, the leptin receptor and STAT3, not only in the hypothalamus, but also in other brain regions. In the brain, MCH might be involved in various feeding-related functions, such as appetite, food-searching behavior, eating muscle movement, and control of energy balance, depending upon the physiological role of each region.
Posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD) is often associated with sleep disturbances. In this review, we focus on the published literature on subjective and objective findings of sleep in patients with PTSD. Insomnia and nightmares are most commonly reported subjective sleep disturbances. Polysomnographic investigations have frequently reported rapid eye movement (REM) sleep abnormalities in PTSD. However, studies have not been consistent about the type of REM sleep dysfunction in PTSD patients. Antidepressants such as nefazodone, trazodone, fluvoxamine, and imagery rehearsal therapy are found to be beneficial in the treatment of PTSD associated sleep disturbances as well as core symptoms of this anxiety disorder. We propose use of such modalities of treatment in PTSD patients with predominant sleep disturbances. Further studies are required to clarify polysomnographic sleep changes especially role of REM sleep dysregulation and treatment of sleep disturbances in PTSD.
The mechanisms underlying the generation of febrile seizures are poorly understood. This study investigated hyperthermia-induced changes in the hippocampus, a structure implicated in febrile seizures. It was hypothesized that neuronal excitability in the hippocampus changes with increasing temperature, and that this change is different in adult as compared with immature rats. Adult and immature (15-17 days postnatal) male rats were studied under urethane anesthesia during normothermia, moderate hyperthermia (38-39.5 degrees C), and severe hyperthermia (&gt;39.5 degrees C). Paired-pulse inhibition of the orthodromically activated population spikes in the dentate gyrus and cornu ammonis 1 region of the hippocampus (CA1), two structures within the hippocampus, was measured after stimulation of the medial perforant path and Schaffer collaterals, respectively. In the adult rat, paired-pulse inhibition was increased in the dentate gyrus during moderate and severe hyperthermia but decreased in CA1 during severe hyperthermia (all p values &lt; 0.05). In the immature rat, paired-pulse inhibition was unchanged in the dentate gyrus but decreased in CA1 during moderate hyperthermia (p &lt; 0.05). We suggest that hyperthermia contributes to seizure susceptibility in the immature hippocampus by decreasing CA1 inhibition. In the adult rat, a decrease in CA1 inhibition requires a higher degree of hyperthermia, and hippocampal seizure generation is opposed by an increase in dentate gyrus inhibition.
Meningiomas originating in Meckel's cave (MC) are uncommon lesions that represent 1% of all intracranial meningiomas. Innovations in skull base surgery have enabled resection of these lesions with less morbidity, but require an intimate knowledge of both lesional pathology and regional microneuroanatomy. To review the surgical and clinical considerations involved in the management of MC meningiomas, we retrospectively reviewed data from patients who underwent transpetrosal resection of primary MC meningiomas between 1984 and 1998. Of 146 patients who underwent transpetrosal removal of meningiomas, 7 were believed to have tumors originating in MC. All 7 patients presented with trigeminal dysfunction, facial pain, and/or headache. Complete tumor removal was achieved in 5 of the 7 patients. Facial hypoesthesia or anesthesia, paralysis of cranial nerve VI, and ophthalmoplegia were among the postoperative complications encountered. Meningiomas of MC represent treatable lesions whose diagnosis requires prompt imaging of patients with trigeminal dysfunction and symptoms of facial pain and headache.
Recent neuroscientific evidence has revealed that the adult brain is capable of substantial plastic change in areas such as the primary somatosensory cortex that were formerly thought to be modifiable only during early experience. We discuss research on phantom limb pain as well as chronic back pain that revealed functional reorganization in both the somatosensory and the motor system in these chronic pain states. In phantom limb pain patients, cortical reorganization is correlated with the amount of phantom limb pain; in low back pain patients the amount of reorganizational change increases with chronicity. We present a model of the development of chronic pain that assumes an important role of somatosensory pain memories. In phantom limb pain, we propose that those patients who experienced intense pain prior to the amputation will later likely develop enhanced cortical reorganization and phantom limb pain. We show that cortical plasticity related to chronic pain can be reduced by behavioral interventions that provide feedback to the brain areas that were altered by somatosensory pain memories.
Rho-kinase II (ROCK-II) is a serine/threonine kinase that is involved in regulation of smooth muscle contraction and has been shown to contribute to the early stages of axon formation in neurons and the regulation of the neuronal cytoskeleton. Much of what is known about Rho-kinase function comes from cell-biological studies, whereas a paucity of biochemical characterization exists for the enzyme. In an effort to characterize ROCK-II biochemically we have cloned a truncated form of human ROCK-II comprising amino acids 1-543 and overexpressed it in Sf-21 cells. Utilizing the Sf-21/baculovirus expression system we isolated milligram quantities of ROCK-II (1-543) and purified the enzyme to near homogeneity. Optimal expression conditions revealed that infection of Sf-21 cells at a multiplicity of infection of 10 for 72h yielded maximal protein expression. Expression of ROCK-II (1-543) as an N-terminal Flag fusion protein allowed a single-step purification yielding greater than 90% homogeneous protein as assessed by SDS-PAGE. Enzyme activity was linear over a range of enzyme concentrations and times. Capture of phosphorylated, biotinylated peptides on streptavidin membrane allowed assessment of peptide substrate preference and measurement of steady-state rate constants. The data indicated that an 11-mer peptide containing Ser235/Ser236 of the S6 ribosomal protein and a 12-mer peptide containing Thr508 of LIM kinase were preferred substrates for ROCK-II (1-543). Finally, staurosporine had an IC(50) value 215-fold more potent than that of the ROCK inhibitor Y-27632. Collectively these data lay the foundation for the beginning of a biochemical characterization for this enzyme and provide methodology for more detailed biochemical, biophysical, and kinetic analysis.
The main objectives of this study were to examine potential effects on cognitive functioning of diabetes and some major cardiovascular signs and diseases in very old age. Analyses were based on data from the Kungsholmen project and involved a population-based sample of non-demented and non-depressed persons aged 75-96 years. Diabetics (n=36) were compared with non-diabetic persons (n=356), and all participants were assessed with an extensive medical examination, specific diagnostic interviews, and laboratory blood analyses. Cognitive ability was indexed by means of the Mini-Mental State Examination (MMSE). The results showed that diabetics perform significantly worse on the MMSE than do non-diabetics, and that the MMSE-performance of elderly with cardiovascular disease (CVD) is significantly worse than in those without CVD. Controlling for cardiovascular signs and diseases did not alter the effects of diabetes. Examination of interaction terms, finally, indicated that, in the examined age range, the effects of diabetes do not vary across age, educational levels or variations in cardiovascular health. The results suggest that cognitive deficits associated with diabetes in very old age may be detected with the MMSE.


The need of didactic material is increasing in medical science nowadays. The lack of anatomical specimens, and the toxicity of conservators, have originated an intense search for alternative ways of demonstrating the human anatomy. As a solution for this difficulty, three-dimensional (3-D) images may be used, facilitating the learning process. This study aims at comparing and describing two techniques of reproduction of bi-dimensional images into three dimensions, which is called stereoscopy. The methods evaluated are filter of colors (anaglyphic) and polarized light. Techniques were analyzed for clearness and 3-D effect. Fourteen images were evaluated by 5 people, with scores ranging from 0 to 4. Total mean scores of polarized light was superior compared to the anaglyphic technique. Both methods use the codification of the image, which means separation and exclusivity with each eye seeing its corresponding image. After several photographic essays and gradual adaptation to a better technique, based on optical physics, photography and neuroanatomical knowledge, we concluded that both techniques are suitable means for production of 3-D images. The best technique, however, considering the final quality of image was polarized light, which did not alter the natural color of the specimen, conserving clearness of images with lower cost.






To date, most studies of multigenic expression patterns by long DNA array have used DNA fragments as probes. These probes are usually obtained as PCR products, and this represents a time-consuming and error-prone approach, requiring strict quality control. The present study examines the use of 40- and 70-mer synthetic oligonucleotides as probes for DNA array analysis with radioactive labeled targets. Design, spotting onto nylon filters, and hybridization conditions were determined and optimized. In this approach, the sensitivity and the specificity of the hybridization appear comparable to the conventional long DNA probes assay, permitting the analysis of small samples of approximately 1 microg total RNA. The long oligonucleotide array thus provides a very convenient method for the analysis of gene expression patterns in biological specimens and in clinical research.
In order to investigate the ways in which sensory channels interact to control balance, we measured the postural response evoked by galvanic vestibular stimulation (GVS) in a rare subject (I. W.) with a large-fibre sensory neuronopathy. I. W. has no sensations of cutaneous light touch and movement/position sense below the neck, and without vision he has no knowledge of where his limbs and body are in space. He was tested with and without vision while seated. With eyes closed, I. W.'s responses to pure vestibular stimuli were an order of magnitude larger than those of healthy controls. In other respects his responses were normal. Part of this phenomenon may have been due to lack of response modification by somatosensory feedback. However, the initial development of his ground reaction force, which is the earliest mechanical indicator of the response, differed from that of a control subject from its beginning. Similarly, opening his eyes resulted in a reduction (&gt;50%) of the response from its beginning. We propose that these early changes reflect changes in initial response selection, possibly by alterations in the gain of vestibulopostural channels. We suggest that similar gain changes operate in healthy subjects and occur through a fast dynamic process. A model is put forward in which the weight of each sensory channel is adjusted continuously in a competitive manner according to the balance-relevant information content of the other sensory channels. As a secondary issue, the nature of I. W.'s head and trunk tilt response provides insight into the question of which vestibular afferents are recruited by GVS. I. W.'s responses consisted of an initial, relatively fast tilt followed by a slower, continuous tilt. When the stimulus was turned off, his body partially tilted back at an intermediate velocity. We modelled this behaviour as the algebraic sum of a position response and a constant velocity response. We suggest that these two components arise from stimulation of otolith and semicircular canal afferents, respectively.
The thalamic midline and intralaminar nuclei, long thought to be a non-specific arousing system in the brain, have been shown to be involved in separate and specific brain functions, such as specific cognitive, sensory and motor functions. Fundamental to the participation of the midline and intralaminar nuclei in such diverse functions seems to be a role in awareness. It is unknown whether the midline and intralaminar nuclei, together often referred to as the 'non-specific' nuclei of the thalamus, act together or whether each nucleus is involved idiosyncratically in separate circuits underlying cortical processes. Detailed knowledge of the connectivity of each of these nuclei is needed to judge the nature of their contribution to cortical functioning. The present account provides an overview of the results of neuroanatomical tracing studies on the connections of the individual intralaminar and midline thalamic nuclei in the rat, that have been performed over the past decade in our laboratory. The results are discussed together with those reported by other laboratories, and with those obtained in other species. On the basis of the patterns of the afferent and efferent projections, we conclude that the midline and intralaminar thalamic nuclei can be clustered into four groups. Each of the groups can be shown to have its own set of target and input structures, both cortically and subcortically. These anatomical relationships, in combination with functional studies in animals and in humans, lead us to propose that the midline and intralaminar nuclei as a whole play a role in awareness, with each of the groups subserving a role in a different aspect of awareness. The following groups can be discerned: (1) a dorsal group, consisting of the paraventricular, parataenial and intermediodorsal nuclei, involved in viscero-limbic functions; (2) a lateral group, comprising the central lateral and paracentral nuclei and the anterior part of the central medial nucleus, involved in cognitive functions; (3) a ventral group, made up of the reuniens and rhomboid nucleus and the posterior part of the central medial nucleus, involved in multimodal sensory processing; (4) a posterior group, consisting of the centre mdian and parafascicular nuclei, involved in limbic motor functions.
The aim of this study was to investigate coping patterns, health status and personality traits in burned adults. Subjects were 161 burn patients treated at the Uppsala University Hospital between 1980 and 1995. Measures were the coping with burns questionnaire (CBQ), the burn specific health scale-brief (BSHS-B) and the Swedish universities scales of personality (SSP). The CBQ was subjected to a K-means cluster analysis and three clusters were derived: extensive, adaptive, and avoidant copers. Extensive copers used the most coping and took an intermediate role regarding health status and the personality trait of neuroticism. Adaptive copers preferred the strategies emotional support and optimism/problem solving, and had the highest health status ratings. Avoidant copers preferred the strategy avoidance and reported the lowest use of emotional support and optimism/problem solving. They had the lowest health status ratings and the highest ratings on neuroticism and aggressiveness. The clusters did not differ in severity of injury or time since injury. In conclusion, coping patterns can be discerned among burn patients, and those individuals preferring avoidance and lacking other coping options displayed more maladaptive traits and poorer health status years after the burn.


Nerve growth factor (NGF) has been implicated as both an inhibitor and an inducer of apoptosis. Binding of NGF to its TrkA receptor is generally considered to have an antiapoptotic effect. However, neuroblastomas that overexpress TrkA have a good prognosis and frequently regress by apoptosis either spontaneously or after chemotherapeutic treatment, whereas those that express little or no TrkA are lethal in 80-95% of patients, despite maximal therapy. We now report that NGF treatment of PC12 neural crest tumor cells trkA-transfected to express TrkA at levels analogous to those seen in &quot;good prognosis&quot; neuroblastomas results in cell death; similar treatment of native cells that express TrkA at levels similar to those of &quot;poor prognosis&quot; neuroblastomas has no effect on cell survival. Morphological and biochemical studies indicate that NGF induces atypical apoptosis that is abrogated by the tyrosine kinase inhibitor K252alpha, but not by an inhibitor of NGF-p75 binding, in trkA-transfected PC12 cells. Differential activation of the TrkA-phosphorylated mitogen-activated protein (MAP)/extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK) kinase 1-phosphorylated ERK-phosphorylated cAMP-responsive element-binding protein and TrkA-phosphorylated MAP/ERK kinase 3/6-phosphorylated p38 MAP signal transduction pathways, also suppressible by K252alpha, occurs in the two cell types. This difference may mediate their differential survival after exposure to NGF.
Abstract - The adult olfactory receptor neurons (ORNs), located in the olfactory epithelium (OE) are permanently renewed thanks to neuronal progenitors present in the deep part of the OE, the globose basal cells (GBCs). Following the ablation of their synaptic target, the olfactory bulb (OB), ORNs degenerate by apoptosis and a wave of neurogenesis, including proliferation of GBCs and neuronal differentiation of their progeny, restores the olfactory function. The Ginkgo biloba extract (EGb 761) (Beaufour Ipsen, France) was administered to adult mice at the doses of 50 or 100 mg/kg, following bilateral bulbectomy and its effects on the expression of PCNA, reflecting the number of proliferating GBCs and on growth associated protein 43 (GAP-43), expressed by differentiating neurons were measured by Western blotting. PCNA expression peaked 9 days post-bulbectomy in untreated animals, but 7 days post-lesion in EGb 761-treated animals. A simultaneous reduction in GAP-43 expression suggested that EGb 761 may temporarily favor the proliferation of GBCs rather than their entry into the differentiation pathway. Probably as a consequence of the earlier onset of the neurogenetic response to bulbectomy, neuronal differentiation was enhanced in the OE, 3 weeks post-bulbectomy. These data suggest that EGb 761 may have beneficial effects upon neurogenesis in the OE through changing the balance between proliferation and differentiation.
This study investigates the associations between migraine on the one hand and lifetime major depression, lifetime panic disorder, and neuroticism evaluated using the Swedish universities Scales of Personality on the other. A neurologist clinically assessed 728 women aged 40-74 years attending a population-based mammography screening programme. The associations between lifetime migraine and personality traits and psychiatric disorders were insignificant in multivariable analysis. However, in old women (60-74 years) the risk for active migraine was strongly associated with a history of major depression and high levels of stress susceptibility and somatic trait anxiety. Furthermore, in old women, high levels of stress susceptibility and somatic trait anxiety were associated with low ratings of migraine pain intensity and lower levels of these traits with high ratings after controlling for disability during migraines, whereas there were only small differences in middle-aged women. The results suggest that certain aspects of neuroticism are important mental correlates of the ability of old women to endure migraine pain.
An internal sense of eye position is necessary to maintain the constancy of the visual world in spite of movements of the eyes. Neuroimaging studies have localized human homologs of monkey visual motion processing areas in MT/MST and also in the collateral sulcus (V4), an area that codes features within objects. We show that these two areas have a baseline fMRI signal that is modulated by eye position and that the preferred direction of the eye position signal is different in the two areas; increasing for ipsiversive eye positions in MT/MST and increasing for contraversive eye positions within the collateral sulcus. This baseline modulation is a true eye position signal; one that is present in the absence of visual motion stimuli. The difference in the preferred direction of the eye position signal may reflect the different transformations in these two areas; a transformation from a retinotopic (eye-centered) to an egocentric coordinate frame necessary for guiding action and to an object-centered frame for object recognition.
A neonatal excitotoxic lesion of the ventral hippocampus in the rat produces a variety of behavioral and cellular changes that remain latent until early adulthood. These delayed effects resemble many phenomena observed in schizophrenia, a neuropsychiatric disorder of early adult onset in which abnormal development of the hippocampus and prefrontal cortex has been postulated. Here we investigated the impact of this neonatal hippocampal lesion on the response of medial prefrontal cortical pyramidal neurons to specific afferent stimulation. Neonatal hippocampal damage altered the physiological responses of these neurons to electrical stimulation of midbrain dopaminergic-GABAergic projections, but not thalamic glutamatergic afferents. The lesion resulted in excessive firing of pyramidal neurons in response to mesocortical stimulation and this effect was not observed before adulthood or after similar hippocampal damage produced in adult rats. These data show that neonatal damage to the ventral hippocampus changes, in a developmentally specific manner, the nature of prefrontal cortical neuron responses to activation of projections from the ventral tegmental area, an effect that may explain the adverse impact of stress in schizophrenia.
The ability to prepare a task is crucial for the voluntary control of our actions. It enables us to react flexibly and rapidly to a changing environment. In the present event-related functional magnetic resonance imaging study we investigated task preparation with a task-cueing paradigm. In this paradigm we intermixed trials in which a task cue and a target were presented with trials in which only the task cue was presented. Analysis of these cue-only trials allowed us to isolate task-preparation related control from execution-related control processes. By means of this paradigm, we could demonstrate that a frontal network was related to task preparation. Further analysis revealed that the fronto-lateral cortex at the junction of precentral sulcus and inferior frontal sulcus and the presupplementary motor area are the crucial frontal components in task preparation.
Information in neuronal networks is thought to be represented by the rate of discharge and the temporal relationship between the discharging neurons. The discharge frequency of neurons is affected by their afferents and intrinsic properties, and shows great individual variability. The temporal coordination of neurons is greatly facilitated by network oscillations. In the hippocampus, population synchrony fluctuates during theta and gamma oscillations (10-100 ms scale) and can increase almost 10-fold during sharp wave bursts. Despite these large changes in excitability in the sub-second scale, longer-term (minute-scale) firing rates of individual neurons are relatively constant in an unchanging environment. As a result, mean hippocampal output remains stable over time. To understand the mechanisms responsible for this homeostasis, we address the following issues: (i) Can firing rates of single cells be modified? (ii) Once modified, what mechanism(s) can maintain the changes? We show that firing rates of hippocampal pyramidal cells can be altered in a novel environment and by Hebbian pairing of physiological input patterns with postsynaptic burst discharge. We also illustrate a competition between single spikes and the occurrence of spike bursts. Since spike-inducing (suprathreshold) inputs decrease the ability of strong ('teaching') inputs to induce a burst discharge, we propose that the single spike versus burst competition presents a homeostatic regulatory mechanism to maintain synaptic strength and, consequently, firing rate in pyramidal cells.
Evoked potentials are widely used in clinical medicine for objective evaluation of sensory disturbances. However, gustatory evoked potentials (GEPs) have not been extensively studied due to lack of agreement among investigators regarding the waveforms. In this study GEPs and gustatory magnetic fields (GEMfs) were simultaneously recorded from five subjects in response to 0.3 M NaCl in an attempt to establish GEP recording as an objective gustatometer. Each subject received a total of 240 stimulus presentations over six sessions. Three GEP components (P1, N1 and P2) were observed and correlated with their corresponding equivalent current dipoles (ECD1, ECD2 and ECD3, respectively). ECD1 was localized to area G in all subjects, P1 being the indicator of intact gustatory projection to area G. No significant GEP activity was detected during the time preceding P1, which suggests that there was no activity in cortical gyri other than that detected by magnetoencephalography. ECD2 and ECD3 were localized to various cortical structures, including the inferior insula and the superior temporal sulcus, indicating that N1 and P2 reflect higher order gustatory functions. The present results indicate that measurement of GEPs may be useful for objective evaluation of gustatory disturbance.
The aim of this study was to investigate the response, acute effects and time-course of sensitization and desensitization to allyl isothiocyanate (mustard oil) nasal stimuli in healthy subjects. Sixty subjects participated in the experiment, which employed psychophysical (intensity ratings) and psychophysiological (skin conductance response) measurements. Nasal stimuli were delivered three times with different inter-stimulus intervals. The results showed that the psychophysical and psycho-physiological data were correlated and that the successive nasal stimuli after a short period of time (&lt;2 min) produced increased intensity of irritation, whereas the stimuli delivered after &gt;3 min produced a markedly decreased intensity of irritation. These findings are in agreement with those obtained with capsaicin, the most frequently used irritant molecule.

It is believed that chemokines and their receptors are involved in trafficking of T-cells to the central nervous system (CNS). The aim of the current study was to define the expression on cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) T-cells of six chemokine receptors associated with trafficking to sites of inflammation. Flow cytometry was used to detect chemokine receptor expression. We observed that CD3+T-cells in the CSF express a restricted array of inflammatory chemokine receptors, specifically CXCR3, CCR5 and CCR6, but little CCR1-3. This repertoire was independent of the presence of CNS inflammation, since comparable findings were obtained in patients with multiple sclerosis (MS) and individuals with non-inflammatory neurological diseases. The enrichment of CCR5+T-cells in the CSF could largely be explained by higher frequency of CD4+/CD45RO+T-cells in this compartment. In contrast, CD4+/CD45RO+T-cells expressing CXCR3 were significantly enriched in CSF as compared with blood. Similar levels of CCR6+/CD3+T-cells were observed in blood and CSF, while levels of CCR2+/CD3+T-cells were lower in CSF than in blood. The CSF was virtually devoid of CCR5+/CXCR3- T-cells, suggesting that the expression of CCR5 alone is not sufficient for the trafficking of CD3+T-cells to the CSF. We hypothesize that CXCR3 is the principal inflammatory chemokine receptor involved in intrathecal accumulation of T-cells in MS. Through interactions with its ligands, CXCR3 is proposed to mediate retention of T-cells in the inflamed CNS.

While the cause of Parkinson's disease (PD) remains unknown, recent evidence suggests certain environmental factors, such as well water drinking, herbicides and pesticides exposure, and neurotoxins, may trigger the chain of oxidative reactions culminating in the death of dopaminergic neurons in substantia nigra to cause parkinsonism. Most studies to date focused on PD with old age onset. However, there is a peculiar group of parkinsonian patients, the young onset Parkinson's disease (YOPD), in whom the age of onset is before 40. It is intriguing to know whether earlier exposure to the putative neurotoxin(s) may contribute to the earlier onset. We therefore conducted this case-control study in which 60 PD patients, 30 YOPD patients and the same number of age- and sex-matched young controls were included. Using logistic regression, we found well water drinking and head injury were risk factors for the development of YOPD. When YOPD patients were compared with PD, we found head injury and exercise were the significant predictors. Keeping all other variables constant, head injury was a risk factor and exercise appeared to be a protective factor. We conclude early exposure to well water drinking and head trauma may trigger and expedite the appearance of parkinsonian features, but such acceleration may be prevented through regular exercise.
Although angina pectoris in patients with coronary heart disease often occurs when their forearms are in an elevated position for a prolonged period, and sympathetic activation is a major cause of this condition, little is known about the physiological effects of forearm elevation on sympathetic activity during forearm exercise. We hypothesized that forearm elevation augments sympathetic activation during the static handgrip exercise in humans. A total of 10 healthy male volunteers performed 2 min of static handgrip exercise at 30% of maximal voluntary contraction followed by 2 min of post-exercise muscle ischaemia (PEMI; specific activation of the muscle metaboreflex) with two forearm positions: the exercising forearm was elevated 50 cm above the heart (forearm-elevated trial) or fixed at the level of the heart (heart-level trial). Muscle sympathetic nerve activity (MSNA), blood pressure and heart rate were monitored. MSNA increased during handgrip exercise in both forearm positions (P&lt;0.001); the increase was 51% greater in the forearm-elevated trial (516+/-99 arbitrary units) than in the heart-level trial (346+/-44 units; P&lt;0.05). The increase in mean blood pressure was 8.4 mmHg greater during exercise in the forearm-elevated trial (P&lt;0.05), while changes in heart rate were similar in both forearm positions. The increase in MSNA during PEMI was 71% greater in the forearm-elevated trial (393+/-71 arbitrary units/min) than in the heart-level trial (229+/-29 units/min; P&lt;0.05). These results support the hypothesis that forearm elevation augments sympathetic activation during handgrip exercise. The excitatory effect of forearm elevation on exercising MSNA may be mediated primarily by increased activation of the muscle metaboreflex.
Emotional events tend to be remembered better than nonemotional events. We investigated this phenomenon by measuring two event-related potential (ERP) effects: the emotion effect (more positive ERPs for pleasant or unpleasant stimuli than for neutral stimuli) and the subsequent memory effect (more positive ERPs for subsequently remembered items than for subsequently forgotten items). ERPs were measured while subjects rated the emotional content of pleasant, unpleasant, and neutral pictures. As was expected, subsequent recall was better for pleasant and unpleasant pictures than for neutral pictures. The emotion effect was sensitive to arousal in parietal electrodes and to both arousal and valence in frontocentral electrodes. The subsequent memory effect at centroparietal electrodes was greater for emotional pictures than for neutral pictures during an early epoch (400-600 msec). This result suggests that emotional information has privileged access to processing resources, possibly leading to better memory formation.
We show that online processing difficulties induced by word order variations in German cannot be attributed to the relative infrequency of the constructions in question, but rather appear to reflect the application of grammatical principles during parsing. Event-related brain potentials revealed that dative-marked objects in the initial position of an embedded sentence do not elicit a neurophysiologically distinct response from subjects, whereas accusative-marked objects do. These differences are predictable on the basis of grammatical distinctions (i.e. underlying linguistic properties), but not on the basis of frequency information (i.e. a superficial linguistic property). We therefore conclude that the former, but not the latter, guides syntactic integration during online parsing.
A recent paper in this journal reports two event-related potential (ERP) experiments interpreted as supporting the domain specificity of the visual mechanisms implicated in processing faces (Cognition 83 (2002) 1). The authors argue that because a large neurophysiological response to faces (N170) is less influenced by the task than the response to objects, and because the response for human faces extends to ape faces (for which we are not expert), we should reject the hypothesis that the face-sensitivity reflected by the N170 can be accounted for by the subordinate-level expertise model of object recognition (Nature Neuroscience 3 (2000) 764). In this commentary, we question this conclusion based on some of our own ERP work on expert object recognition as well as the work of others.
There is now strong evidence that arthropod photoreceptors use histamine as a neurotransmitter. The synthesis, storage and release of histamine from arthropod photoreceptors have been demonstrated, and the postsynaptic effects of histamine and the endogenous neurotransmitter are similar. However, a full understanding of these photoreceptor synapses also requires knowledge of histamine inactivation and metabolism. Relatively little is known about histamine metabolism in the nervous system of arthropods, and mechanisms appear to differ with the species. This study focuses on histamine metabolism in visual tissues of the horseshoe crab Limulus polyphemus, a chelicerate. We present two major findings: (1) histamine is metabolized to imidazole acetic acid and to gamma-glutamyl histamine. (2) relatively low levels of histamine metabolites accumulate in Limulus visual tissues.
Thyroid hormone has a prominent role in the development and homeostasis of the central nervous system (CNS). Consequently, genes participating in thyroid hormone receptor (THR)-mediated signal transduction are prime candidates for neuropsychiatric illness susceptibility factors. Previously, we have associated exonic polymorphisms in a Xq13 thyroid receptor coactivator named HOPA with a modest increase in vulnerability to a broad spectrum of neuropsychiatric illness, including depression, psychosis, and hypothyroidism. In order to test and extend these findings, we have now examined the relationship between HOPA polymorphisms and neuropsychiatric illness in a cohort of Iowa adoptees. Consistent with our prior findings, HOPA polymorphisms were associated with an increased risk for major depression. There was suggestive evidence that the increased psychiatric morbidity in these subjects could represent epistasis, e.g., an interaction between the HOPA variant and a genetic diathesis for another psychiatric condition such as biologic parent antisocial behavior. Information about biologic parent behavior and the adoptive home environment was used to determine depressive symptoms attributable to gene-environment interaction. HOPA variant subjects continued to show significant differences in depressive symptoms when controlling for gene-environment interaction. Finally, because obesity is associated with hypothyroidism and HOPA polymorphisms are associated with hypothyroidism, we analyzed weight with respect to HOPA allele status. We found that that HOPA polymorphisms were associated with increased risk for obesity (P &lt;.001). In summary, we conclude that HOPA polymorphisms may be a moderate risk factor for increased susceptibility to a broad spectrum of neuropsychiatric illness and hypothesize that the type of illness manifested might be related to a separate genetic diathesis.
has drawn an alternative conclusion from the data of, and suggested that it takes 80 ms, rather than 500 ms, for the sensation evoked by a stimulus to enter awareness. Here, I suggest that our conscious sensation evolves over time, during the period from 80 to 500 ms after a stimulus, until the sensation is stably localized in space.
The aim of this study was to begin to parse the relative contributions of the right and left ventromedial prefrontal cortices (VMPC) in regard to social conduct, decision-making, and emotional processing. We hypothesized that the right VMPC is a critical component of the neural systems that subserve such functions, whereas the left VMPC is not. Seven participants with focal, stable unilateral lesions to the right (n = 4) or left (n = 3) VMPC were studied with procedures designed to measure social conduct, decision-making, and emotional processing and personality. The right-sided participants had profound disturbances of social and interpersonal behavior and of the ability to maintain gainful employment; they had defective performance and impaired anticipatory skin conductance responses during the Gambling Task; most had profound abnormalities of emotional processing and personality, and met criteria for &quot;acquired sociopathy.&quot; By contrast, the left-sided participants had normal social and interpersonal behavior; they had stable employment; they performed normally and had normal skin conductance responses on the Gambling Task; they had normal emotional processing; and their personalities were unchanged from premorbid status. The marked deficits in social conduct, decision-making, and emotional processing in participants with unilateral right VMPC lesions are reminiscent in kind of those that have been reported in connection with bilateral VMPC lesions, albeit perhaps of lesser severity. The findings provide preliminary evidence that insofar as social, decision-making, and emotional functions are concerned, the right-sided component of the VMPC system may be critical, whereas the left-sided component may be less important.

Stratify care by choosing the optimal medication for a migraine. Severe pain, significant disability, and associated features such as nausea or vomiting necessitate early treatment with specific, high efficacy therapy. Migraine patients may have a spectrum of headache presentations ranging from tension-type headaches to migraine headaches with or without aura. Mild headache types may respond to simple analgesics, though there is evidence that migraineurs will respond to migraine-specific medications such as the triptans for a range of headache phenotypes. Physicians should provide patients with medication to treat nausea and vomiting. They may be infrequent accompaniments, but medication such as a neuroleptic may avoid a trip to the emergency room. Provide rescue medication for an occasional failure of usual treatment to avoid further disability or emergency room visits. Avoid medication overuse by matching treatment to patient needs. A cycle of repetitive and escalating medication use can lead to transformation of migraine into chronic daily headache with analgesic-dependent rebound.
The definition of recurrence includes the following: any headache occurring after a headache-free state at 2 hours and within 24 hours after intake of drug; a headache that has never been studied systematically; a headache that may not be an outcome of drug treatment; a headache that may be due to the inherent nature of migraine and individual patient characteristics such as duration of attack; and headache for which effective treatment may be a re-dose of the initial medication or addition of steroidal or nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory medications.
The engrailed genes play roles in the maintenance of segment polarity in a variety of animals and in the establishment and maintenance of the mid-brain/hind-brain boundary (MHB) in vertebrates. We isolated an ascidian engrailed gene and analyzed its expression pattern during early development. Expression begins at the neurula stage and is restricted to two cells within the neuroectoderm. At the tail-bud stage engrailed-expressing cells are in the &quot;neck&quot; region of the neural tube, which has been proposed to be the ascidian equivalent of the MHB. These same cells also express PAX2/5/8. We speculate that a structure equivalent to the MHB existed before the split of the three chordate sub-phyla.
The dentate gyrus is the primary afferent pathway into the hippocampus, but there is little information concerning the molecular influences that govern its formation. In particular, the control of migration and cell positioning of dentate granule cells is not clear. We have characterized more fully the timing and route of granule cell migration during embryogenesis using in utero retroviral injections. Using this information, we developed an in vitro assay that faithfully recapitulates important events in dentate gyrus morphogenesis. In searching for candidate ligands that may regulate dentate granule cell migration, we found that SDF1, a chemokine that regulates cerebellar and leukocyte migration, and its receptor CXCR4 are expressed in patterns that suggest a role in dentate granule cell migration. Furthermore, CXCR4 mutant mice have a defect in granule cell position. Ectopic expression of SDF1 in our explant assay showed that it directly regulates dentate granule cell migration. Our study shows that a chemokine is necessary for the normal development of the dentate gyrus, a forebrain structure crucial for learning and memory.
We propose asimple method of monitoring separate visual pathways inlightly sedated monkeys using chromatic and achromatic gratings of low contrast, which are known to activate predominantly either parvo- or magno-systems. The scalp Visual Evoked Potentials (VEPs) are compared with simultaneously recorded intra-cortical VEPs which in turn are compared with multi-unit and single-unit responses. At isoluminance, the onset of low contrast, coarse chromatic square wave spatial profile gratings generates negative scalp VEPs which exhibit properties consistent with the activation of sustained, parvocellular-chromatic mechanisms (e.g. low-pass spatio-temporal characteristics). In monkeys, most components of chromatic onset VEPs have latencies comparable to neuronal activity within the supragranular layers of V1. Corresponding coarse achromatic gratings elicit positive VEPs which exhibit properties consistent with the activation of transient-type magnocellular mechanisms (e.g. temporal tuning to higher temporal frequencies) and which have a more complex morphology. Achromatic onset VEPs may contain early components of similar timing to activity recorded in monkey V1, but later components cannot be related to V1 generators; other sources are not known. Achromatic reversal VEPs are similar to achromatic onset, chromatic reversal and both chromatic and achromatic offset VEPs and all differ from chromatic onset VEPs. It is observed that early components of scalp-recorded chromatic-onset VEPs are related in time to some intra-cortical potentials. These VEPs are generated by low spatial frequencies and have low pass temporal characteristics. Other scalp potentials, apparently unrelated to V1 field potential activity must be generated by other sources such as extra-striate areas.
There is a growing body of evidence that oxidative stress plays a major role in Alzheimer's disease (AD) pathogenesis. Identification of oxidatively altered proteins in AD is important for understanding the relationship between protein oxidation, protein aggregation and neurodegeneration. In this communication, we report a method that can be applied to study oxidative changes of individual proteins in brain. In order to analyze protein oxidation by detection of protein-bound carbonyls, cytosolic protein extracts were derivatized with 2,4-dinitrophenylhydrazine (DNPH) and then separated by two-dimensional (2-D) gel electrophoresis. After electrotransfer to polyvinylidene difluoride (PVDF) membranes, proteins were first stained with Sypro Ruby protein stain, and then the oxidized proteins were detected with anti-dinitrophenyl (DNP) antibody. About 150 proteins and more than 100 oxidized proteins were detected and quantified in both AD and control cases by 2-D image analysis. The amount of protein-bound carbonyls was decreased for six and increased for one protein in AD. The amount of protein was increased for three proteins in AD. Furthermore, the degree of oxidation was calculated as the ratio of protein-bound carbonyls to the total amount of an individual protein. Two proteins showed a significant decrease in the degree of oxidation in AD. Our results suggest that the balance of protein oxidation and degradation is altered in AD.
Methadone maintenance treatment (MMT) has been evaluated in the United States and in a few other countries. MMT has been developed in France since 1995, and over 5 000 patients receive this treatment. However no French study has yet been published on the efficacy of MMT as assessed by a validated scale. Retention in treatment for one year has been considered as a threshold to define maintenance of treatment benefits after discharge from a methadone program; determination of retention predictors is important. Over a three year period, we evaluated patients at admission and during treatment using the Addiction Severity Index (ASI), and urine drug screening was performed weekly; 95 patients (66 males and 29 females) were evaluated at intake. Their mean age was 30.2 5.5, and they had used opioids for a mean of 10.6 5.7 years. Their ASI severity scores for drugs were over 5, showing a clear need for treatment. Female patients differed from males only in the employment-finances ASI score; 43 patients completed at least one year of treatment, after which their drug and legal composite scores significantly improved. No significant changes in their consumption of cocaine, alcohol, benzodiazepines or cannabis were found, but they smoked fewer cigarettes at 12 months. Demographics, ASI severity scores, and history of suicide attempts did not differentiate one-year completers from dropouts (n=16). However, dropouts had used more buprenorphine and less methadone in the 30 days preceding their admission, and they received a lower dose of methadone during treatment. Our population is comparable to other French MMT populations; they enter treatment after a long history of opioid dependence. The improvement found on the ASI composite scores is also similar to the improvement described in other international studies. Dropouts in our study seem to be more treatment-resistant patients, in the sense that they had used more buprenorphine before intake and were not stabilized with it; and they may have had a more negative attitude towards methadone.
Methylmercury (MeHg) epidemics and studies in fish-eating populations have provided invaluable insights into the neurotoxic sequelae of MeHg exposure. MeHg is a ubiquitous environmental contaminant, and its accumulation in the food chain will continue to pose health risks given anthropogenic and natural contamination. This review briefly addresses recent epidemiological data associated with exposure to MeHg in fish-eating populations, identifies mechanisms of MeHg transport into the central nervous system (CNS), and discusses various theories on cellular processes afflicted by MeHg, which most certainly include astrocytic failure to maintain the composition of the extracellular fluid.

Fructose 2,6-bisphosphate (Fru-2,6-P2) plays an important role in the regulation of major carbohydrate fluxes as both allosteric activator and inhibitor of target enzymes. To examine the role of Fru-2,6-P2 in the regulation of hepatic carbohydrate metabolism in vivo, Fru-2,6-P2 levels were elevated in ADM mice with adenovirus-mediated overexpression of a double mutant bifunctional enzyme, 6-phosphofructo-2-kinase/fructose-2,6-bisphosphatase (n = 6), in comparison to normal control mice (control, n = 6). The rates of hepatic glycogen synthesis in the ADM and control mouse liver in vivo were measured using new advances in 13C NMR including 3D localization in conjunction with [1-13C]glucose infusion. In addition to glycogen C1, the C6 and C2-C5 signals were measured simultaneously for the first time in vivo, which provide the basis for the estimation of direct and indirect synthesis of glycogen in the liver. The rate of label incorporation into glycogen C1 was not different between the control and ADM group, whereas the rate of label incorporation into glycogen C6 signals was in the ADM group 5.6 +/- 0.5 micro mol.g-1.h-1, which was higher than that of the control group of 3.7 +/- 0.5 micro mol.g-1.h-1 (P &lt; 0.02). The rates of net glycogen synthesis, determined by the glycogen C2-C5 signal changes, were twofold higher in the ADM group (P = 0.04). The results provide direct in vivo evidence that the effects of elevated Fru-2,6-P2 levels in the liver include increased glycogen storage through indirect synthesis of glycogen. These observations provide a key to understanding the mechanisms by which elevated hepatic Fru-2,6-P2 levels promote reduced hepatic glucose production and lower blood glucose in diabetes mellitus.

We have evaluated the association between headache and musculoskeletal symptoms in a large cross-sectional population-based study. Between 1995 and 1997, all 92 566 adults in Nord-Trndelag County in Norway were invited to participate in a health survey. A total of 51 050 (55%) responded to questions concerning headache and musculoskeletal symptoms. Both migraine and non-migrainous headache were strongly associated with musculoskeletal symptoms. However, frequency of headache had a higher impact than headache diagnosis on this association. Thus, the prevalence of chronic headache (headache &gt;14 days/month) was more than four times higher (OR = 4.6; 95% CI 4.0-5.3) in the group of individuals with musculoskeletal symptoms than in those without. Individuals with neck pain were more likely to suffer from headache as compared with those with musculoskeletal symptoms in other restricted areas. In conclusion, there was a strong association between chronic headache and musculoskeletal symptoms, which may have implications for the choice of treatment.
The role was studied of ephrin-B3, a ligand of the Eph family of tyrosine kinase receptors, in the formation of cortical connectivity. In situ hybridization and immunohistochemistry showed that EphA4, a receptor of ephrin-B3, was expressed in the lateral thalamus (visual and somaotosensory thalamus) of the developing rat brain, but not in the medial thalamic nuclei which project to the limbic cortex. Correspondingly, ephrin-B3 was expressed strongly in the developing limbic cortex including amygdala, entorhinal cortex and hippocampus. To examine the action of ephrin-B3 on thalamic axons, either lateral or medial thalamic explants were cultured on membranes obtained from ephrin-B3-expressing COS cells. Axonal growth was inhibited for cells from the lateral thalamus but not from the medial thalamus. These results suggest that ephrin-B3 contributes to regional specificity by suppressing axonal growth of lateral thalamic neurons.
In conditioned taste aversion, an animal avoids a taste previously associated with toxic effects, and this aversive memory formation requires an intact insular cortex. In this paper, we investigated the possible differential involvement of cholinergic and glutamatergic receptors in the insular cortex in short-term memory (STM) and long-term memory (LTM) of taste aversion in rats. Taste aversion was induced by intraperitoneal administration of lithium chloride (a malaise-inducing drug) 15 min after experience with an unfamiliar taste. In order to test STM and LTM of taste aversion, taste stimulus was again presented 4 h and 72 h after lithium injection, respectively. During the acquisition, microinjection of the muscarinic antagonist, scopolamine, in the insular cortex before, but not after, the presentation of the new taste, abolished STM as well as LTM. Blockade of the NMDA receptor, in the insular cortex, by AP5 before, but not after, the presentation of the taste stimulus, impaired LTM but left STM intact. Moreover, when injected 1 h after malaise induction (i.e., during taste-illness association), AP5 disrupted both STM and LTM. These results suggest that activation of muscarinic receptors in the insular cortex is involved in the acquisition of taste memory, whereas NMDA receptors participate in taste memory consolidation. These data demonstrate that different neurochemical mechanisms subserve different memory phases. NMDA receptors are also probably involved in processing the visceral input, thus allowing subsequent taste-illness association. This indicates that in the same cortical area the same neurotransmitter system can be involved in distinct processes: taste memory consolidation vs. taste-illness association.
NMDA receptors (NMDARs) are multimeric proteins, the biological and functional characteristics of which depend on differential subunit assembly during postnatal development. In the present paper, we investigated whether the expression of NMDAR subunits NR1, NR2A, NR2B is influenced by neurotrophins in rat visual cortex. We used a soluble form of the TrkB receptor engineered as an immunoadhesin (TrkB-IgG) in order to block TrkB ligands. TrkB-IgG was released through a cannula implanted in the occipital pole and connected to a mini-osmotic pump. TrkB-IgG was continuously released from postnatal day 20-21 (P20-21) to P36-37. In a different group of animals used as controls, osmotic pumps were filled with saline. Different antibodies were used to stain neurons expressing NR1, NR2A and NR2B. We counted the number of neurons stained for NR2A and NR2B subunits and expressed this as percentage with respect to the total number of cresyl-violet stained neurons in each cortical layer. In the visual cortex of TrkB-IgG-treated rats, the percentage of neurons expressing NR2A was significantly increased in all cortical layers. Concerning the NR2B subunit, the percentage of stained neurons was not significantly different between TrkB-IgG-treated and control rats. The staining level for both NR2A and NR2B, but not NR1, was reduced in all cortical layers in TrkB-IgG-treated animals. In agreement with this result, the endogenous levels of NR2A and NR2B subunits were reduced in TrkB-IgG-treated animals as shown by Western blotting. Thus, TrkB signalling controls the cellular expression of NMDAR subunits in visual cortical neurons during postnatal development.
The pre-Btzinger complex (preBtC) in the ventrolateral medulla is thought to be the kernel for respiratory rhythm generation. Neurons in the preBtC contain intense neurokinin-1 receptor (NK1R) immunoreactivity. Some of these neurons in the adult preBtC are presumed to be the pre-inspiratory interneurons that are essential for generating respiratory rhythm in the neonate. Chloride-mediated synaptic inhibition is critical for rhythmogenesis in the adult. The present study used immunofluorescence histochemistry and immunogold-silver staining to determine the inhibitory synaptic relationship between glutamic acid decarboxylase (GAD)- or glycine transporter 2 (GlyT2)-immunoreactive (ir) boutons and NK1R-ir neurons in the preBtC of adult rats. Under the confocal microscope, we found that GAD- and GlyT2-ir boutons were in close apposition to NK1R-ir somas and dendrites in the preBtC. Under the electron microscope, GAD- and GlyT2-ir terminals were in close apposition to NK1R-ir somas and dendrites. Symmetric synapses were identified between GAD- or GlyT2-ir terminals and NK1R-ir neurons. A total of 51.6% GAD-ir and 38.2% GlyT2-ir terminals were found to contact or make synapses with NK1R-ir profiles, respectively. GAD- and GlyT2-ir terminals synapsed not only upon NK1R-ir neurons but also upon NK1R immuno-negative neurons. NK1R-ir neurons received both symmetric (presumed inhibitory) and asymmetric (presumed excitatory) synapses. Thus, the present findings provide the morphological basis for inhibitory inputs to NK1R-ir neurons in the preBtC, consistent with the suggestion that chloride-mediated synaptic inhibition may contribute importantly to rhythm generation by controlling the membrane potential trajectory and resetting rhythmic bursting of the kernel neurons in the adult.
Pyrroloquinoline quinone (PQQ) is a redox active essential nutrient that can generate or scavenge superoxide depending on its microenvironment. PQQ has been shown previously to be neuroprotective in a rodent stroke model. Here we test whether PQQ interacts with reactive nitrogen species, known to be involved in the pathogenesis of stroke. Using rat forebrain neurons in culture, we determined that the toxicity of SIN-1 was mediated by peroxynitrite and that PQQ could block this toxic action. However, PQQ could not block the toxicity of peroxynitrite itself. Both SIN-1 and peroxynitrite caused ATP depletion, but only SIN-1 evoked ATP depletion was blocked by PQQ. In a cell-free system, PQQ blocked nitration of bovine serum albumin produced by SIN-1, but potentiated peroxynitrite-induced nitration. PQQ was unable to block ATP depletion and cell death induced by NO. donors (DEA/NO, DPT/NO and DETA/NO), indicating that it does not directly interact with nitric oxide, and suggesting that it acts as a superoxide scavenger. PQQ significantly potentiated cGMP accumulation evoked by SIN-1, similar to the effect of superoxide dismutase (SOD). However, unlike SOD, which potentiated neurotoxicity induced by SIN-1, PQQ blocked its toxicity, arguing against the possibility that PQQ functions simply as a SOD mimetic. Indeed, substantially less H2O2 was produced by the incubation of SIN-1 with PQQ, when compared to SOD. These results suggest that PQQ scavenges superoxide without forming toxic levels of H2O2. Therefore, the protective effect of PQQ on stroke might be due, at least in part, to the suppression of peroxynitrite formation.
Functional imaging technique using positron emission tomography (PET) has made it possible to localize functional brain regions in the human brain by detecting changes in regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF). Performing PET studies in the monkey will aid in integrating monkey electrophysiological research with human PET studies. We examined changes in rCBF during olfactory or combined olfactory and gustatory (flavour) stimulation using PET in the alert rhesus monkey. Olfactory or flavour stimulation with acetic acid or apple increased rCBF in the prepyriform area, substantia innominata and amygdala. Besides these areas, flavour stimulation increased rCBF in the anterior insula and frontal operculum, orbitofrontal cortex, inferior frontal gyrus and cerebellum. Apple odour or flavour stimuli increased rCBF in the inferior occipital gyrus in addition to the above areas. These findings suggest that the increases of rCBF in response to neural activities in the primary olfactory and gustatory cortices are detectable by the use of PET. In addition, regions activated by apple stimuli suggest that higher brain function might be detected with PET in the alert monkey.
We studied the role of protein kinase C (PKC) and protein kinase A (PKA) in mediating learning-related long lasting reduction of the post-burst after-hyperpolarization (AHP) in cortical pyramidal neurons. We have shown previously that pyramidal neurons in the rat piriform (olfactory) cortex from trained (TR) rats have reduced post-burst AHP for 3 days after odour-discrimination learning, and that this reduction is due to decreased conductance of calcium-dependent potassium current. In the present study, we examined whether this long-lasting reduction in AHP is mediated by second messenger systems. The broad-spectrum kinase inhibitor, H7, increased the AHP in neurons from TR rats, but not in neurons from pseudo-trained (pseudo-TR) and naive rats. Consequently, the difference in AHP amplitude between neurons from TR and control animals was diminished. This effect was also obtained by application of the specific PKC inhibitor, GF-109203x. The PKC activator, 1-Oleoyl-2-acetyl-sn-glycerol (OAG), significantly reduced the AHP in neurons from naive and pseudo-TR rats, but not in neurons from TR rats, so that the difference between the groups was abolished. The PKA-specific inhibitor, H-89, increased the AHP in neurons from all groups to a similar extent, and the difference in AHP amplitude between neurons from TR rats and neurons from controls was maintained. We suggest that while the post-burst AHP in piriform cortex pyramidal neurons is modulated by both PKC and PKA, a PKC-dependent process maintains the learning-related reduction of the AHP in these cells.
We have investigated the role of somatostatin receptor subtypes sst2 and sst4 in limbic seizures and glutamate-mediated neurotransmission in mouse hippocampus. As compared to wild-type littermates, homozygous mice lacking sst2 receptors showed a 52% reduction in EEG ictal activity induced by intrahippocampal injection of 30 ng kainic acid (P &lt; 0.05). The number of behavioural tonic-clonic seizures was reduced by 50% (P &lt; 0.01) and the time to onset of seizures was doubled on average (P &lt; 0.05). Seizure-associated neurodegeneration was found in the injected hippocampus (CA1, CA3 and hilar interneurons) and sporadically in the ipsilateral latero-dorsal thalamus. This occurred to a similar extent in wild-type and sst2 knock-out mice. Intrahippocampal injection of three selective sst2 receptor agonists in wild-type mice (Octreotide, BIM 23120 and L-779976, 1.5-6.0 nmol) did not affect kainate seizures while the same compounds significantly reduced seizures in rats. L-803087 (5 nmol), a selective sst4 receptor agonist, doubled seizure activity in wild-type mice on average. Interestingly, this effect was blocked by 3 nmol octreotide. It was determined, in both radioligand binding and cAMP accumulation, that octreotide had no direct agonist or antagonist action at mouse sst4 receptors expressed in CCl39 cells, up to micromolar concentrations. In hippocampal slices from wild-type mice, octreotide (2 micro m) did not modify AMPA-mediated synaptic responses while facilitation occurred with L-803087 (2 micro m). Similarly to what was observed in seizures, the effect of L-803087 was reduced by octreotide. In hippocampal slices from sst2 knock-out mice, both octreotide and L-803087 were ineffective on synaptic responses. Our findings show that, unlike in rats, sst2 receptors in mice do not mediate anticonvulsant effects. Moreover, stimulation of sst4 receptors in the hippocampus of wild-type mice induced excitatory effects which appeared to depend on the presence of sst2 subtypes, suggesting these receptors are functionally coupled.
This study demonstrates that pharmacological manipulation of the dopamine (DA) receptors can modulate the size of the axonal tree of substantia nigra pars compacta (SNpc) neurons in mice. Pharmacological blockade or genetic ablation of the D2 receptor (D2R) resulted in sprouting of DA SNpc neurons whereas treatment with a D2 agonist resulted in pruning of the terminal arbor of these neurons. Agents such as cocaine, that indirectly stimulate D2R, also resulted in reduced terminal arbor. Specific D1 agonists or antagonists had no effect on the density of DA terminals in the striatum. We conclude that the D2 receptor has a central role in regulating the size of the terminal arbor of nigrostriatal neurons. These findings have implications relating to the use of dopaminergic agonists in the management of Parkinson's disease and in controlling plasticity following injury, loss or transplantation of DA neurons.
The segmental patterning of the vertebrate hindbrain has been intensely investigated, yet the evolutionary origin of hindbrain segmentation remains unclear. In the vertebrate sister group, amphioxus (Cephalochordata), the embryonic neural tube lacks obvious morphological segmentation, but comparative Hox gene expression analysis has suggested the presence of a region homologous to the vertebrate hindbrain. Does this region contain ancient segmental features shared with the vertebrate hindbrain? To help address this question we cloned the paired-like amphioxus homeodomain gene shox and found that its expression is segmental in the amphioxus neural tube. We also uncovered a previously uncharacterized iterated neural tube expression pattern of the zinc-finger gene AmphiKrox. We propose that these genes, along with amphioxus islet and AmphiMnx, share a one-somite width periodicity of expression in the neural tube, the coincidence of which may reflect an underlying segmental organization. We hypothesize that the segmental patterning of neurons in the neural tube was present in the amphioxus/vertebrate ancestor, but the establishment of a bona fide segmented hindbrain may indeed have arisen in the vertebrate lineage.
Simultaneous recordings of multiple single unit activity in both cerebral and cerebellar cortex, cortical EEG, and both nuchal and vibrissal EMG were obtained in nine unrestrained rats. Putative Purkinje cells of the deep vermal cerebellar cortex exhibited rhythmic discharge of simple spikes with extremely low variability in interspike intervals for several hours. The highly rhythmic nature of spike discharge was remarkably stable across all states of sleep (both slow-wave and rapid eye movement sleep) and wake including quiet waking, grooming, eating, running in a familiar environment, and exploring a novel environment. The frequencies at which oscillatory discharges took place varied, among different cells, between 16 and 142 Hz; however, 75% of the recorded cells discharged at frequencies between 20 and 50 Hz. From recordings in which two to four such cells were recorded simultaneously, evidence was found for multiple cells firing at the same frequency as well as for multiple cells firing at different frequencies. The precise timing of spike discharge in these cells makes them potential candidates to participate in timing functions thought to depend on the cerebellum
The aim of the present work was to assess the role of some cortical sites of the rat (the prefrontal, PFC, frontal, FC, parietal, PAC, and perirhinal, PC, cortices) in the acquisition of classical fear conditioning (CS and context conditioned freezing). Using the reversible ablation technique the sites were inactivated with lidocaine (LIDO), administered before the one-trial training session. The freezing response, taken as memorization index, was measured in conditions of full functional recovery after the short reversible LIDO inactivation either 3 h (&quot;short-term&quot; memory) and/or 72 h (&quot;long-term&quot; memory) later, so as to follow the temporal dimension of mnemonic elaboration. The results of the inactivations performed during the training session show that PFC, FC, PAC and PC play contemporaneous but distinct roles in the memorization of aversive responses to CS and context. PC inactivation weakened the retention of both mnemonic traces at the 3-h delay. At the same delay FC and PAC inactivation weakened only freezing to acoustic CS while PFC inactivation improved the retention of both traces. Inactivation of all four sites was followed by significant amnesia for both traces at the 72-h after-acquisition delay. The present findings show that PFC, FC, PAC and PC reversible inactivation during the acquisition training session diversely interferes with the memorization of conditioned freezing to acoustic CS and context. Moreover, the different results obtained at the two different retention intervals support the hypothesis that &quot;short-term&quot; and &quot;long-term&quot; memories are not necessarily linked, the earlier one not always influencing the subsequent one.
The cerebellum modulates different nociceptive phenomena and influences visceral functions. This study shows cerebellar modulation of an abdominal reflex elicited by a visceral noxious stimulus (colorectal distension, CRD). The intensity of the reflex was measured by electromyographic (EMG) recording from the rectus abdominus muscle, and the cerebellar cortex (vermis, lobule VIII), the fastigial nucleus, or the dentate nucleus was stimulated using D, L-homocysteic acid (0.1 M, 1 micro l). To release the fastigial nucleus from inhibition by the Purkinje cells, bicuculline (GABA(A) receptor antagonist, 100 micro M, 1 micro l) was used. Stimulation of the cerebellar cortex enhanced, whereas stimulation or disinhibition of the fastigial nucleus decreased, the responses to CRD measured by EMG. Stimulation of the dentate nucleus did not have an obvious effect on the intensity of the reflex. These results are in agreement with the hypothesis that the cerebellum modulates visceral nociceptive functions, whereby the cerebellar cortex and the fastigial nucleus, respectively, play a pro-nociceptive and an anti-nociceptive role.
We examined how the brain organizes interrelated facts during learning and how the facts are subsequently manipulated in a transitive inference (TI) paradigm (e.g., if A&lt;B and B&lt;C, then A&lt;C). This task determined features such as learned facts and behavioral goals, but the learned facts could be organized in any of several ways. For example, if one learns a list by operating on paired items, the pairs may be stored individually as separate facts and reaction time (RT) should decrease with learning. Alternatively, the pairs may be stored as a single, unified list, which may yield a different RT pattern. We characterized RT patterns that occurred as participants learned, by trial and error, the predetermined order of 11 shapes. The task goal was to choose the shape occurring closer to the end of the list, and feedback about correctness was provided during this phase. RT increased even as its variance decreased during learning, suggesting that the learnt knowledge became progressively unified into a single representation, requiring more time to manipulate as participants acquired relational knowledge. After learning, non-adjacent (NA) list items were presented to examine how participants reasoned in a TI task. The task goal also required choosing from each presented pair the item occurring closer to the list end, but without feedback. Participants could solve the TI problems by applying formal logic to the previously learnt pairs of adjacent items; alternatively, they could manipulate a single, unified representation of the list. Shorter RT occurred for NA pairs having more intervening items, supporting the hypothesis that humans employ unified mental representations during TI. The response pattern does not support mental logic solutions of applying inference rules sequentially, which would predict longer RT with more intervening items. We conclude that the brain organizes information in such a way that reflects the relations among the items, even if the facts were learned in an arbitrary order, and that this representation is subsequently used to make inferences.
The role of cholinergic basal forebrain (CBF) neurons in mnemonic behaviors was investigated using the immunotoxin 192IgG-saporin. We assessed two routes of immunotoxin administration: intracerebroventricular (ICV) and intraparenchymal (INTRA). INTRA lesions of the medial septum (MS) and/or the nucleus basalis magnocellularis (NBM) were compared with ICV-lesions, INTRA-phosphate-buffered saline injected, and naive controls. The INTRA-NBM/MS and ICV NBM/MS lesions produced a similar depletion of choline acetyltransferase activity of 80% across all CBF projections. Water maze performance was similarly impaired for ICV- and INTRA-NBM/MS animals during various phases of testing, whereas animals with individual lesions of the NBM or MS performed at the level of controls. In contrast to the allocentric demands of water maze performance, the egocentric-based T-maze task revealed a vast group difference between the ICV- and the INTRA-NBM/MS animals. INTRA-NBM/MS animals showed a severe deficit in the non-match- and match-to-position version, whereas again, animals with single lesions were unimpaired. In addition, a dichotomy between animals with complete cholinergic deafferentation was observed in the inhibitory avoidance task. ICV-NBM/MS showed a diminished retention for the aversive stimulus while the INTRA-NBM/MS animals remembered well. During plus maze testing, only the INTRA-NBM/MS animals had a reduced level of anxiety. Although non-CBF regions may have been differently affected by the two routes of immunotoxin administration, global measures of arousal, motivation, and motor initiation did not reveal a different behavioral pattern. Our findings suggest that a dynamic interplay exists between the degree of cholinergic deficit and task demands revealing different types of mnemonic impairments.
Chinchillas are notable for a low-frequency hearing range similar to that of humans and a marked sensitivity to loud noise. A single noise exposure that produces cochlear damage may lead to progressive loss of synaptic endings in the cochlear nucleus, followed by new axonal growth. As an index of synaptic regulation during such changes, we have examined the expression of a synaptic vesicle protein, synaptophysin, in the cochlear nucleus following a damaging acoustic stimulus in adult chinchillas. With one ear protected by a plug, following a 3-h exposure to an octave-band noise of 108 dB sound pressure level, centered at 4 kHz, the unprotected cochlea and the cochlear nuclei exhibited degeneration of hair cells and axons over periods of 7, 14, 30, 90, and 150 days. Axonal degeneration, as revealed by a silver degeneration method, was heavy ipsilateral to the cochlear damage, but sparse degeneration also appeared on the contralateral, unexposed side. Synaptophysin immunostaining underwent a major, bilateral decline in the anteroventral and posteroventral cochlear nuclei, interrupted at intervening periods by transient increases in the numbers of stained structures. A distinction in staining between large perisomatic structures and smaller puncta in the neuropil and between the dorsal and the ventral zones of the ventral cochlear nuclei revealed some variations in the response and degree of recovery of synaptophysin staining. These findings could best be explained by degeneration of synaptic endings followed by new growth of terminals and by regulatory changes in the levels of synaptophysin expression and synaptic vesicle accumulation over time.
We have established hippocampal cell lines from normal and trisomy 16 fetal mice, a model of human trisomy 21. Both cell lines, named H1b (derived from a normal animal) and HTk (trisomic) possess neuronal markers by immunohistochemistry (enolase, synaptophysin, microtubule associated protein-2, and choline acetyltransferase) and lack glial markers (glial fibrillary acidic protein and S-100). Also, we evaluated intracellular Ca(2+) levels ([Ca(2+)](i)) in response to neurotransmitter agonists, in cells loaded with the fluorescent Ca(2+) indicators Indo-1 and Fluo-3. Both cell lines responded to glutamatergic stimuli induced by glutamate, N-methyl-D-aspartate, I-amino-2,3-dihydro-5-methyl-3-oxo-4-isoxazole propanoic acid or kainate. Glutamate responses were only partially prevented by addition of 5 mM EGTA and the metabotropic glutamate receptor agonist, trans-(1S,3R)-1-amino-1,3-cyclopentanedicarboxylic acid (ACPD), increased [Ca(2+)](i) in both cell types. These results confirm the presence of glutamatergic metabotropic receptors. In glutamate-induced responses, HTk cells exhibited slower time-dependent decay kinetics than H1b cells. Cholinergic agonists (nicotine and muscarine) induced a rapid, transient increase in [Ca(2+)](i) in both cell types. Furthermore, some cells were sensitive to histamine and norepinephrine. All responses to the aforementioned agonists were prevented by addition of specific antagonists. We also studied incorporation and release of [(3)H]choline in the cells, and observed no differences in uptake parameters. However, release induced by K(+) and nicotine depolarization was greatly reduced in HTk cells. The results show that H1b and HTk cells retain neuronal characteristics and respond to specific neurotransmitter stimuli. The HTk differences could be related to neuronal pathophysiology in Down syndrome.
Accumulating evidence suggests that inflammation may play an important part in neurodegenerative diseases such as Alzheimer's disease. Inflammation itself, however, is insufficient to produce acute neurodegeneration in vivo. In this report, we determined whether inflammation increases excitotoxicity in hippocampal neurons. A proinflammagen, bacterial endotoxin lipopolysaccharide, was coinjected with ibotenate, an N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor agonist, into rat hippocampus. One week after coinjection, significant neuronal degeneration and severe tissue collapse were observed in the hippocampus. Astroglial and microglial infiltration were also detected. The neurodegeneration was suppressed by dizocilpine maleate, an N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor antagonist. We then examined whether microglial activation takes part in synergistic neuronal loss. One day after the lipopolysaccharide injection into the rat hippocampus, substantial microglial activation and induction of inducible nitric oxide synthase were observed, while neither neuronal nor astrocytic changes were detected. On the other hand, ibotenate injection at the same place 1 day after lipopolysaccharide injection in the hippocampus produced significant neuronal degeneration and gross microglial activation. These results suggest that inflammation by lipopolysaccharide might play an important role in ibotenate/lipopolysaccharide neurotoxicity.
To study the mechanism by which genes can efficiently be transferred into specific cell types, we have constructed several novel, single-chain multicomponent proteins by recombining the nontoxic C fragment of tetanus toxin and the translocation domain of diphtheria toxin together with the DNA-binding fragment of GAL4 transcription factor, for transportation of plasmid DNA into neuronal cells. The C fragment of tetanus toxin provided neuronal selectivity, the translocation domain of diphtheria toxin permitted endosomal escape, and the GAL4 domain provided binding to DNA. To assess the cellular tasks of each component in gene transfer, different combinations of these fragments were produced by polymerase chain reaction, expressed in Escherichia coli, and purified under native conditions from the soluble proteins. We show that only fusion proteins bearing the C fragment of tetanus toxin bind to gangliosides and, followed by their specific binding to differentiated PC12 cells, are internalized within 10 min. These proteins delivered the green fluorescence protein gene to PC12 cells, with the highest transfection efficiency achieved with proteins containing both the C fragment and the translocation domain. Addition of chloroquine elevated the transfection efficiency, which was further increased by incorporation of a nuclear localization signal in the delivery system. In addition, the effect of different DNA-condensing materials (poly-L-lysine, protamine, lysine(n=8)-trytophan(n=2)-lysine(n=8)) on gene transfer was investigated.
In mammals, including humans, the subventricular zone of the lateral ventricle and the subgranular zone of the dentate gyrus contain neural stem cells, which continue to proliferate even in adulthood and give rise to new neurons. Neurogenesis in these areas is enhanced by brain insults. Brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) promotes neuronal survival and differentiation during the development of the nervous system. In the adult intact brain, BDNF administration in the lateral ventricle or ventricular zone stimulates neurogenesis in several forebrain areas. Here we show that intrahippocampal transduction of recombinant adeno-associated virus carrying the BDNF gene giving rise to levels of BDNF protein sufficient to induce a functional response inhibits the formation of new dentate granule cells triggered by global forebrain ischemia in rats. Our data indicate that long-term delivery of a neurotrophic factor, which is considered as a novel neuroprotective strategy for human brain diseases, may attenuate intrinsic neuroregenerative responses.
This study examined post-exercise changes in corticospinal excitability in five 'elite' rowers and six nonrowers. Transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) was delivered to the motor cortex and bilateral electromyographic (EMG) recordings were made from erector spinae (ES) muscles at L3/L4 spinal level and from the first dorsal interosseous (FDI) muscle of the dominant hand. Each subject completed two exercise protocols on a rowing ergometer: a light exercise protocol at a sub-maximal output for 10 min and an intense exercise protocol at maximum output for 1 min. A trial of ten magnetic stimuli was delivered before each of the protocols and, on finishing exercise, further trials of ten stimuli were delivered every 2 min for a 16 min period. Amplitudes of motor-evoked potentials (MEPs) in each of the three test muscles were measured before exercise and during the recovery period after exercise. The non-rowers showed a brief facilitation of MEPs in ES 2 min after light and intense exercise that was only present in the elite rowers after intense exercise. In the period 4-16 min after light exercise, the mean (+/- S.E.M.) MEP amplitude (relative to pre-exercise levels) was less depressed in the elite rowers (79.4 +/- 2.1%) than in the non-rowers (60.9 +/- 2.5%) in the left ES but not significantly so in the right ES. MEP amplitudes in FDI were significantly larger in the elite rowers, averaging 119.0 +/- 3.1% pre-exercise levels, compared with 101.2 +/- 5.8% in the non-rowers. Pre-exercise MEP latencies were no different in the two groups. After light exercise MEP latencies became longer in the elite rowers (left ES, 16.1 +/- 0.5 ms; right ES, 16.1 +/- 0.4 ms; dominant FDI, 23.4 +/- 0.2 ms) than in the non-rowers (left ES, 15.0 +/- 0.3 ms; right ES, 15.2 +/- 0.3 ms; dominant FDI, 21.5 +/- 0.2 ms). There were no differences in MEP depression or latency between elite rowers and non-rowers after intense exercise. We conclude that the smaller degree of MEP depression in the elite rowers after light exercise reflects less central fatigue within corticospinal control pathways than that seen in the non-rowers. The longer latency of MEPs seen in the elite rowers may reflect recruitment of more slower-conducting fatigue-resistant motor units compared with the non-rowers. These differences may be because the energy requirements for the non-rowers during light exercise are closer to their maximum capacity, leading to more fatigue. This notion is supported by the lack of any difference between groups following intense exercise when both groups were working at their own maximum.

Coenzyme Q (CoQ(10)) is a component of the mitochondrial electron transport chain and also a constituent of various cellular membranes. It acts as an important in vivo antioxidant, but is also a primary source of O(2)(-*)/H(2)O(2) generation in cells. CoQ has been widely advocated to be a beneficial dietary adjuvant. However, it remains controversial whether oral administration of CoQ can significantly enhance its tissue levels and/or can modulate the level of oxidative stress in vivo. The objective of this study was to determine the effect of dietary CoQ supplementation on its content in various tissues and their mitochondria, and the resultant effect on the in vivo level of oxidative stress. Rats were administered CoQ(10) (150 mg/kg/d) in their diets for 4 and 13 weeks; thereafter, the amounts of CoQ(10) and CoQ(9) were determined by HPLC in the plasma, homogenates of the liver, kidney, heart, skeletal muscle, brain, and mitochondria of these tissues. Administration of CoQ(10) increased plasma and mitochondria levels of CoQ(10) as well as its predominant homologue CoQ(9). Generally, the magnitude of the increases was greater after 13 weeks than 4 weeks. The level of antioxidative defense enzymes in liver and skeletal muscle homogenates and the rate of hydrogen peroxide generation in heart, brain, and skeletal muscle mitochondria were not affected by CoQ supplementation. However, a reductive shift in plasma aminothiol status and a decrease in skeletal muscle mitochondrial protein carbonyls were apparent after 13 weeks of supplementation. Thus, CoQ supplementation resulted in an elevation of CoQ homologues in tissues and their mitochondria, a selective decrease in protein oxidative damage, and an increase in antioxidative potential in the rat.
Darkening of postorbital skin (eyespots) in Anolis carolinensis occurs during stressful situations via adrenal catecholaminergic activation of beta(2)-adrenergic receptors. The eyespots form more rapidly in dominant males during social interaction. It was hypothesized that eyespot darkening from green to black is a social signal that communicates disposition, resulting from sympathetic activation and determines social hierarchy. To assess the value of the eyespot as a signal influencing social dominance, males were paired according to size and weight, and painted postorbitally; one with green and the other with black paint. Painted pairs interacted with aggressive displays, approaches, and bites. Dominant status was determined by continued displacement of an opponent, superior perching position, and lighter color. Males with eyespots darkened by black paint were dominant in 100% of interactions and more aggressive. Males viewing an opponent with eyespots painted black exhibited higher plasma epinephrine (Epi), norepinephrine (NE), and dopamine (DA) levels than males with eyespots hidden with green paint and isolated controls. Results for behavior were similar, but those for plasma catecholamines contrast with those from recent experiments in which interactions occurred vs. a mirrored reflection. The eyespot is a potent stimulus, acting as a social signal that confers dominant status to its bearer, and activates the sympathetic nervous system in opponents that observe it during aggressive interactions.

Mller cells of the vertebrate retina are prominent radial glia that provide essential support to sustain homeostasis of the tissue, including redistribution of external potassium, uptake and metabolism of neurotransmitters, and secretion of factors that stabilize the retina. Meeting this diversity of functional supports requires that Mller cells express numerous receptors, transporters, enzymes, and tissue factors. In this study, we provide evidence that adds to the dimensions of Mller cell function by demonstrating a unique relationship between external NAD(+) and the mobilization of internal calcium, expressed in the form of calcium waves. The cellular mechanism that supports internal mobilization of calcium appears to depend on a complex multifunctional ectoenzyme, CD38, which converts NAD(+) into the intracellular Ca(2+)-mobilizing second-messenger cyclic ADP-ribose (cADPR) and could function as a detector for extracellular NAD(+), thus providing a novel signal detection system for evaluating the extracellular environment. Our results are consistent with a model of intracellular Ca(2+) mobilization in which membrane-bound CD38 binds extracellular NAD(+) and triggers intracellular Ca(2+) waves either by direct conversion of NAD(+) to cADPR or by activating intracellular cADPR synthesis. Our preliminary results indicate that the Ca(2+) waves induced by external NAD(+) propagate through an internal pathway that depends on the activation of ryanodine receptors, which appear to be distributed throughout the Mller cell cytosol. Because NAD(+) is likely to be enhanced when cells are stress or damaged, CD38 could enable Mller cells to detect NAD(+) under these circumstances and respond appropriately. Alternatively, NAD(+) could also represent a novel extracellular, paracrine function that mediates signaling between glial cells and/or other cellular elements of the retina.
A role for neuropeptide receptors in glial tumorigenesis has recently been proposed. Although angiotensin receptors are known to mediate proliferative effects in many cell types, including brain astrocytes, the possible participation of these receptors in glial tumorigenesis remains unknown. In the present study, we have examined the expression of the molecularly defined angiotensin receptor subtypes AT(1a), AT(1b), and AT(2) in normal perinatal rat astrocytes and in a panel of tumor adult astrocytoma cells, using the reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR). Subsequently, we compared the mitogenic effect of the angiotensins A(1-8), A(2-8), A(3-8) and the heptapeptide &quot;metabolite&quot; A(1-7), on both normal and tumor astrocytes, measured in terms of the incorporation of tritiated thymidine. Our results indicate that AT(1a), AT(1b), and AT(2) angiotensin receptor mRNA is commonly expressed by many of these cells. Of notable exception is the astrocytoma U373 which was not found to express AT(1) or AT(2) mRNA. Chronic (24-h) incubation of cells with A(1-8) and A(1-7) lead to the induction of mitogenesis, even in the AT(1) and AT(2) mRNA negative astrocytoma cell line U373. Moreover, pharmacological analysis indicated that the observed mitogenic effects are not mediated by the AT(1) or AT(2) type receptors, but rather by a novel, specific A((1-7)) angiotensin receptor, since mitogenesis was shown to be partially blocked by the A(1-7) analogue D-Ala(7)A(1-7) and by the protease inhibitor orthophenanthroline (100 microM). Using Fura-2 spectrophotometry, we found that activation of this receptor does not alter intracellular calcium levels; however, preincubation with the protein kinase kinase inhibitor U0126 (10 microM) was found to inhibit these mitogenic effects partially. Overall, these results which demonstrate that normal and tumor astrocytes express a greater variety of angiotensin receptor subtypes than previously thought, support the idea that A(1-7) and its receptor signaling system may play an important role in shaping the astrocyte population during development. Moreover, the untimely expression of this A((1-7)) receptor may represent an important etiological component in the development of brain astrocytomas.
To understand the role of different K(+) channel subtypes in glial cell-mediated spatial buffering of extracellular K(+), immunohistochemical localization of inwardly rectifying K(+) channel subunits (Kir2.1, Kir2.2, Kir2.3, Kir4.1, and Kir5.1) was performed in the retina of the mouse. Stainings were found for the weakly inward-rectifying K(+) channel subunit Kir4.1 and for the strongly inward-rectifying K(+) channel subunit Kir2.1. The most prominent labeling of the Kir4.1 protein was found in the endfoot membranes of Mller glial cells facing the vitreous body and surrounding retinal blood vessels. Discrete punctate label was observed throughout all retinal layers and at the outer limiting membrane. By contrast, Kir2.1 immunoreactivity was located predominantly in the membrane domains of Mller cells that contact retinal neurons, i.e., along the two stem processes, over the soma, and in the side branches extending into the synaptic layers. The results suggest a model in which the glial cell-mediated transport of extracellular K(+) away from excited neurons is mediated by the cooperation of different Kir channel subtypes. Weakly rectifying Kir channels (Kir4.1) are expressed predominantly in membrane domains where K(+) currents leave the glial cells and enter extracellular &quot;sinks,&quot; whereas K(+) influxes from neuronal &quot;sources&quot; into glial cells are mediated mainly by strongly rectifying Kir channels (Kir 2.1). The expression of strongly rectifying Kir channels along the &quot;cables&quot; for spatial buffering currents may prevent an unwarranted outward leak of K(+), and, thus, avoid disturbances of neuronal information processing.
Matrix metalloproteinases (MMPs) are a gene family of neutral proteases that are important in normal development, wound healing, and a wide variety of pathological processes, including the spread of metastatic cancer cells, arthritic destruction of joints, atherosclerosis, and neuroinflammation. In the central nervous system (CNS), MMPs have been shown to degrade components of the basal lamina, leading to disruption of the blood-brain barrier (BBB), and to contribute to the neuroinflammatory response in many neurological diseases. Brain cells express both constitutive and inducible MMPs in response to cellular stress. MMPs are tightly regulated to avoid unwanted proteolysis. Secreted as inactive enzymes, the MMPs require activation by other proteases and free radicals. The MMPs are part of a larger class of metalloproteinases (MPs), which includes the recently discovered ADAMs (a disintegrin and metalloproteinase domain) and ADAMTS (a disintegrin and metalloproteinase thrombospondin) families. MPs have complex roles at the cell surface and within the extracellular matrix. At the cell surface, they act as sheddases, releasing growth factors, death receptors, and death-inducing ligands, making them important in cell survival and death. Tissue inhibitors of metalloproteinases (TIMPs) are endogenous inhibitors that regulate the activity of the MMPs. Synthetic inhibitors have been developed for the treatment of arthritis and cancer. These hydroxymate-based compounds have been shown to reduce injury in experimental allergic encephalomyelitis (EAE), experimental allergic neuritis (EAN), cerebral ischemia, intracerebral hemorrhage, and viral and bacterial infections. MPs have both beneficial and detrimental roles; understanding their expression in various CNS insults will allow for the use of MMP inhibitors in the treatment of neurological disorders.
Neural stem cells from neurogenic regions of mammalian CNS are clonogenic in an in vitro culture system exploiting serum and anchorage withdrawal in medium supplemented with methyl cellulose and the pleiotropic growth factors EGF, FGF2, and insulin. The aim of this study was to test whether cortical glial tumors contain stem-like cells capable, under this culture system, of forming clones showing intraclonal heterogeneity in the expression of neural lineage-specific proteins. The high frequencies of clone-forming cells (about 0.1-10 x 10(-3)) in clinical tumor specimens with mutated p53, and in neurogenic regions of normal human CNS, suggest that the ability to form clones in this culture system is induced epigenetically. RT-PCR analyses of populations of normal brain- and tumor-derived sister clones revealed transcripts for nestin, neuron-specific enolase, and glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP). However, the tumor-derived clones were different from clones derived from neurogenic regions of normal brain in the expression of transcripts specific for genes associated with neural cell fate determination via the Notch-signaling pathway (Delta and Jagged), and cell survival at G2 or mitotic phases (Survivin). Moreover, the individual glioma-derived clones contain cells immunopositive separately for GFAP or neuronal beta-III tubulin, as well as single cells coexpressing both glial and neuronal markers. The data suggest that the latent critical stem cell characteristics can be epigenetically induced by growth conditions not only in cells from neurogenic regions of normal CNS but also in cells from cortical glial tumors. Moreover, tumor stem-like cells with genetically defective responses to epigenetic stimuli may contribute to gliomagenesis and the developmental pathological heterogeneity of glial tumors.

Wilhelm Weygandt's Uber die Mischzustnde des manisch-depressiven Irreseins (On the Mixed States of Manic-Depressive Insanity) describes and conceptualizes mixed states of mood, behavior, and thinking commonly found in manic-depressive disorders. These ideas emerged from Weygandt's service in the 1890s at the Psychiatric Clinic of the University of Heidelberg, directed by Emil Kraepelin. In the sixth (1899) edition of Kraepelin's influential textbook, the concept of manic-depressive illnesses underwent a fundamental shift from a complex group of syndromal subtypes to a single integrated disorder, widely known from the 1921 English translation of the eighth (1920) edition. In the 1899 edition, Kraepelin acknowledged Weygandt for a new section on mixed manic-depressive states within the new integrated view of manic-depressive disorder. We provide biographical notes on Weygandt, a little-known but historically important figure, as well as the first English translation of his monograph and interpretive summaries of his findings. We also consider whether Weygandt's important insight that the same person could be both manic and depressed not only at different times but even at the same time served as an important stimulus to Kraepelin's unified manic-depressive disorder concept, which survives as bipolar disorder a century later.

Multi-channel auditory evoked potentials (AEP) were recorded before and after cochlear implantation (CI) from a patient suffering from severe high frequency hearing loss with residual, but highly fluctuating hearing around 250 Hz. Immediately after CI activation early components of the N1 were present. Later N1 components developed during the use of CI. The unique result of this single case study is the concordance of the cortical AEP pattern obtained by native and artificial peripheral stimulation, which can be regarded as an indicator for the adequate function of the CI.
Previous neuroimaging studies generally demonstrate a growth in the cortical response with an increase in sound level. However, the details of the shape and topographic location of such growth remain largely unknown. One limiting methodological factor has been the relatively sparse sampling of sound intensities. Additionally, most studies have either analysed the entire auditory cortex without differentiating primary and non-primary regions or have limited their analyses to Heschl's gyrus (HG). Here, we characterise the pattern of responses to a 300-Hz tone presented in 6-dB steps from 42 to 96 dB sound pressure level as a function of its sound level, within three anatomically defined auditory areas; the primary area, on HG, and two non-primary areas, consisting of a small area lateral to the axis of HG (the anterior lateral area, ALA) and the posterior part of auditory cortex (the planum temporale, PT). Extent and magnitude of auditory activation increased non-linearly with sound level. In HG, the extent and magnitude were more sensitive to increasing level than in ALA and PT. Thus, HG appears to have a larger involvement in sound-level processing than does ALA or PT.
The inner ear contains receptor cells that oscillate spontaneously, generating waves that propagate backward in the cochlea, ultimately causing sound to be radiated into the ear canal--the spontaneous otoacoustic emissions (SOAEs). Except in rare conditions, these internally generated signals appear to go unheard. The intensity of SOAEs admittedly hovers near the threshold of detection, but they are essentially continuous and perhaps last a lifetime. The hypothesis is tested that the frequency difference limen (DL(F)) is affected by SOAEs. The results show that the DL(F) systematically improves near SOAE frequencies, determined ipsi- or contralaterally to the SOAEs, arguing for a central effect. The results are discussed in the context of central plasticity.
Mating stimulation, particularly vaginal-cervical stimulation, causes estrous abbreviation in female rats. In most previous studies, female rats were repeatedly tested for sexual behavior until estrous termination occurred. Thus, it was not clear whether sensory stimulation (e.g., flank stimulation, olfactory cues) received during the repeated testing procedure contributed to estrous abbreviation. In Experiment 1, we determined the effect of premating to two or four ejaculations on the rate of estrous termination when a repeated testing procedure was used. We compared ovariectomized, hormone-primed, female rats receiving (1) four ejaculations, (2) two ejaculations, or (3) no premating. Females premated to either two or four ejaculations showed significantly lower levels of sexual receptivity 12 h later than did nonpremated females. These results confirm that premating induces estrous abbreviation when a repeated testing procedure is used. In Experiment 2, we determined whether the repeated testing procedure was necessary for estrous abbreviation. Ovariectomized, hormone-primed female rats were premated to two ejaculations or not premated. The rats were then tested for sexual behavior repeatedly or only once. Females that were premated and repeatedly tested for sexual behavior showed a statistically significant decrease in sexual receptivity compared to females that were not premated; however, the level of sexual receptivity in premated females did not differ from that in non-premated females when they were tested only once. The results suggest that heat duration is the result of a complex interplay between those factors that promote the expression of sexual receptivity and those that inhibit it.
We investigated the relationship between aggressive behavior and circulating androgens in the context of agonistic social interaction and examined the effect of this interaction on the androgen-aggression relationship in response to a subsequent social challenge in male Anolis carolinensis lizards. Individuals comprising an aggressive encounter group were exposed to an aggressive conspecific male for 10 min per day during a 5-day encounter period, while controls were exposed to a neutral stimulus for the same period. On the sixth day, their responses to an intruder test were observed. At intervals, individuals were sacrificed to monitor plasma androgen levels. Structural equation modeling (SEM) was used to test three a priori interaction models of the relationship between social stimulus, aggressive behavior, and androgen. Model 1 posits that exposure to a social stimulus influences androgen and aggressive behavior independently. In Model 2, a social stimulus triggers aggressive behavior, which in turn increases circulating levels of androgen. In Model 3, exposure to a social stimulus influences circulating androgen levels, which in turn triggers aggressive behavior. During the 5 days of the encounter period, circulating testosterone (T) levels of the aggressive encounter group followed the same pattern as their aggressive behavioral responses, while the control group did not show significant changes in their aggressive behavior or T level. Our SEM results supported Model 2. A means analysis showed that during the intruder test, animals with 5 days of aggressive encounters showed more aggressive responses than did control animals, while their circulating androgen levels did not differ. This further supports Model 2, suggesting that an animal's own aggressive behavior may trigger increases in levels of plasma androgen.
Repeated anabolic-androgenic steroid treatment during adolescence increases hypothalamic vasopressin and facilitates offensive aggression in male Syrian hamsters (Mesocricetus auratus). The current study investigated whether anabolic-androgenic steroid exposure during this developmental period influenced vasopressin V(1A) receptor binding activity in the hypothalamus and several other brain areas implicated in aggressive behavior in hamsters. To test this, adolescent male hamsters were administered anabolic steroids or sesame oil throughout adolescence, tested for offensive aggression, and examined for differences in vasopressin V(1A) receptor binding using in situ autoradiography. When compared with control animals, aggressive, adolescent anabolic steroid-treated hamsters showed significant increases (20-200%) in the intensity of vasopressin V(1A) receptor labeling in several aggression areas, including the ventrolateral hypothalamus, bed nucleus of the stria terminalis, and lateral septum. However, no significant differences in vasopressin V(1A) receptor labeling were found in other brain regions implicated in aggressive responding, most notably the lateral zone from the medial preoptic area to anterior hypothalamus and the corticomedial amygdala. These data suggest that adolescent anabolic steroid exposure may facilitate offensive aggression by increasing vasopressin V(1A) receptor binding in several key areas of the hamster brain.
Brain activity can be monitored non-invasively by near-infrared spectroscopy (NIRS), which has several advantages in comparison with other imaging methods, such as flexibility, portability, low cost and biochemical specificity. Moreover, patients and children can be repetitively examined. Therefore, the objective of the study was to test the feasibility of NIRS for the event-related approach in functional brain activation studies with cognitive paradigms. Thus, changes in the concentration of oxy-, deoxy-, and total hemoglobin were measured by NIRS in 14 healthy subjects while performing a color-word matching Stroop task in an event-related design. The hemodynamic response (increase in the concentration of oxy-/total hemoglobin and decrease in the concentration of deoxy-hemoglobin) was stronger during incongruent compared to congruent and neutral trials of the Stroop task in the lateral prefrontal cortex bilaterally. This stronger hemodynamic response was interpreted as a stronger brain activation during incongruent trials of the Stroop task, due to interference. A new method for NIRS data evaluation that enables the analysis of the hemodynamic response to each single trial is introduced. Each hemodynamic response was characterized by the parameters gain, lag and dispersion of a Gaussian function fitted by nonlinear regression. Specific differences between the incongruent and neutral condition were found for gain and lag. Further, these parameters were correlated with the behavioral performance. In conclusion, brain activity may be studied by NIRS using cognitive stimuli in an event-related design. Hum. Brain Mapping 17:61-71, 2002.
Whether different odorous compounds (odorants) are processed by different cerebral circuits is presently unknown. A first step to address this complicated issue is to investigate how the cerebral regions mediating signals from olfactory (i.e., unimodal) odorants, differ from those mediating the olfactory + trigeminal (i.e., bimodal) odorants. [15O]-H2O-PET scans were conducted in 12 healthy females during three separate conditions: birhinal, passive smelling of: 1) the unimodal odorant vanillin; 2) the bimodal odorant acetone; and 3) odorless air. Significant activations were calculated contrasting vanillin to air, acetone to air, and deactivations, running these contrasts in the opposite direction. Smelling of vanillin activated bilaterally the amygdala and piriform cortex. These regions were only engaged slightly by acetone. Instead, strong activations were found in the anterior and central insula and claustrum, the posterior portion of anterior cingulate, the somatosensory cortex (SI for face), cerebellum, ventral medial (VMPo) and dorsal medial (MDvc) thalamus, the lateral hypothalamus, and pons/medulla. In parallel, the somatosensory (SI, below central representation of face), secondary visual and auditory cortices, as well as the supplementary motor area and the parahippocampal gyri were deactivated. No deactivations were observed with vanillin, although the odor components of acetone and vanillin were rated similarly intense (75 +/- 17 mm vs. 61 +/- 22 mm, NS). The differentiated pattern of cerebral activation during odorant perception seems to be dependent on the signal transducing cranial nerves involved. In contrast to vanillin, which solely activates the olfactory cortex, acetone engages predominantly trigeminal projections from the nasal mucosa. Acetone's limited activation of the olfactory cortex may result from a cross-modal interaction, with inhibition of acetone's odor component by its trigeminal component.
In order to successfully look at and reach for a visual target the central nervous system must perform a complex sensorimotor transformation. How this transformation is mapped onto relevant brain structures has become the subject of much recent investigation. In the present paper we examined the contribution of the human premotor cortex (PMC) to this transformation process during a task requiring coordinated eye and hand movements. For this purpose, we made use of single-pulse transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) to temporarily disrupt the processing occurring in the PMC during task performance. Subjects made open-loop pointing movements accompanied by saccades of the same size or two or three times larger. Under normal circumstances without TMS, the pointing movement amplitude increased with saccade amplitude. When TMS was applied over the PMC 100-200 ms after target presentation, the influence of saccade amplitude on the pointing movement amplitude was increased. This is the opposite effect to that observed in a previous study [Journal of Neurophysiology 84 (200) 1677-1680] when TMS was applied over the posterior parietal cortex (PPC) during the same task. We suggest that this pattern of results is consistent with the coding of the reach plan in eye-centered coordinates in the PPC and limb-centered coordinates in the PMC.
There is a growing interest in elucidating the role of specific patterns of neural dynamics--such as transient synchronization between distant cell assemblies--in brain functions. Magnetoencephalography (MEG)/electroencephalography (EEG) recordings consist in the spatial integration of the activity from large and multiple remotely located populations of neurons. Massive diffusive effects and poor signal-to-noise ratio (SNR) preclude the proper estimation of indices related to cortical dynamics from nonaveraged MEG/EEG surface recordings. Source localization from MEG/EEG surface recordings with its excellent time resolution could contribute to a better understanding of the working brain. We propose a robust and original approach to the MEG/EEG distributed inverse problem to better estimate neural dynamics of cortical sources. For this, the surrogate data method is introduced in the MEG/EEG inverse problem framework. We apply this approach on nonaveraged data with poor SNR using the minimum norm estimator and find source localization results weakly sensitive to noise. Surrogates allow the reduction of the source space in order to reconstruct MEG/EEG data with reduced biases in both source localization and time-series dynamics. Monte Carlo simulations and results obtained from real MEG data indicate it is possible to estimate non invasively an important part of cortical source locations and dynamic and, therefore, to reveal brain functional networks.
Patients with a history of injected drug use are often distrustful of the medical system. This attitude is generally based on problems in the management of pain or withdrawal or on hostility from medical providers in the past. When treated with respect and appropriate medical concern, hospitalized injection drug users will often actively seek to begin recovery from drug use. Identifying injection drug use is the first step in providing appropriate care. Assessing and systematically addressing key management issues allows the provider to care for the hospitalized injection drug user effectively. The well-trained provider can be a significant catalyst for behavior change in the addicted population.
A previously developed speech test with sentences in noise was modified in an attempt to increase its efficiency. Thus the original, slightly modulated (SM) noise was changed to be fully modulated (FUM), and the speech-to-noise ratio of each word was controlled to make all the words equally difficult. The new and the old version were compared in 41 hearing-impaired subjects. The learning effect was similar for both noises, but the variability was higher for the FUM noise. However, the efficiency of the speech test was slightly better for the FUM noise. Speech recognition in both types of noise was correlated with pure-tone thresholds at high frequencies, i.e. 2000 Hz and above, but not to tone thresholds at lower frequencies. Results in FUM noise and in SM noise were highly correlated, with a correlation coefficient of 0.86.

The aim of this study was to investigate whether the amplitude of gamma-band activity is influenced by the factor age. We examined alpha- and gamma-band EEG activity and event-related potentials (ERPs) of 12 subjects. Six subjects constituted the younger (mean age=36.6 years) and another six the older age group (mean age=47.6 years). Subjects performed a visual discrimination task which required a response to Kanizsa squares (targets) among Kanizsa-triangles and non-Kanizsa figures. The ERPs of the younger group revealed a significantly larger N 170 amplitude. The amplitudes of evoked alpha- and gamma-band activity were also found to be significantly higher in the younger group. We discuss the implications of these findings and possible reasons for a change of the oscillatory activity in the older age group.
In this work we used high-resolution EEG (123 channels) and current density reconstruction (CDR) to analyze the generators of slow potentials (SPs) in 31 healthy individuals. SPs were obtained during a task-performance feedback anticipation paradigm. The task consisted of a visual paired-associate memory test, with correct performance on single trials indicated by pleasant visual stimuli and incorrect performance by an unpleasant sound. We used realistic models of each subject's head based on their magnetic resonance images (MRIs) to estimate the potentials in the intracranial compartments and to define the source space using individual cortical geometry. Source reconstruction was performed by an Lp-norm minimization algorithm. Results showed a multifocal pattern of current density foci in various association cortices, including prefrontal areas 9 and 10 of Brodmann in all subjects. Posterior cortical areas also contributed importantly to the SP, for instance extrastriate area 19 and parietal area 7, in 90% of the subjects. According to our modeling, we conclude that even the pure stimulus-anticipation SP obtained here, as opposed to traditional motor-task contigent negative variation (CNVs), is not exclusively prefrontal in origin, being generated by multiple association areas. We discuss our results with respect to new possibilities in large-scale cortical physiology and with respect to their application in psychiatry.
A 66-year-old man, with a history of pulmonary tuberculosis 40 years before admission, complained of headache and dysarthria that lasted for 2 weeks and was followed by diplopia. MRI revealed an isolated nodular lesion in the pons with a marked enhancement mimicking brain tumor and other diseases. Antituberculous drugs were started under the presumptive diagnosis of tuberculoma. The lesion was completely resolved after 9 months of treatment and thus, the final diagnosis was confirmed. An empiric administration of antituberculous drug may be an important and non-invasive diagnostic tool as well as a treatment in such cases.
It is well-known that thresholds for ongoing interaural temporal disparities (ITDs) at high frequencies are larger than threshold ITDs obtained at low frequencies. These differences could reflect true differences in the binaural mechanisms that mediate performance. Alternatively, as suggested by Colburn and Esquissaud [J. Acoust. Soc. Am. Suppl. 1 59, S23 (1976)], they could reflect differences in the peripheral processing of the stimuli. In order to investigate this issue, threshold ITDs were measured using three types of stimuli: (1) low-frequency pure tones; (2) 100% sinusoidally amplitude-modulated (SAM) high-frequency tones, and (3) special, &quot;transposed&quot; high-frequency stimuli whose envelopes were designed to provide the high-frequency channels with information similar to that available in low-frequency channels. The data and their interpretation can be characterized by two general statements. First, threshold ITDs obtained with the transposed stimuli were generally smaller than those obtained with SAM tones and, at modulation frequencies of 128 and 64 Hz, were equal to or smaller than threshold ITDs obtained with their low-frequency pure-tone counterparts. Second, quantitative analyses revealed that the data could be well accounted for via a model based on normalized interaural correlations computed subsequent to known stages of peripheral auditory processing augmented by low-pass filtering of the envelopes within the high-frequency channels of each ear. The data and the results of the quantitative analyses appear to be consistent with the general ideas comprising Colburn and Esquissaud's hypothesis.

The discovery of susceptibility genes for the major psychiatric illnesses may lead to the development of presymptomatic and prenatal tests. In a preliminary study we assessed the attitudes of 147 bipolar patients, 90 attendees at their family doctor (GP) and 32 psychiatrists to the possible development of genetic tests for bipolar disorder susceptibility genes. Our results suggest that patients and the public will look favourably on the development of presymptomatic (but not prenatal) testing for bipolar disorder susceptibility genes. Psychiatrists, who will have to administer such tests, appear significantly more cautious.

We administered a battery of both behavioral and electrophysiologic measures to a pair of fraternal twin girls, one of whom exhibited symptoms consistent with an auditory processing disorder. Both twins were within normal limits on standardized tests of cognitive and language skills. Basic audiometric measures, as well as behavioral tests of simultaneous masking, backward masking, gap detection, and frequency-sweep discrimination, showed little difference between the twins. Significant differences, however, were evident on event-related potentials (ERPs) in response to both within-channel and across-channel gap detection tasks. Substantial differences were also noted for ERPs to both linguistic and nonlinguistic targets in dichotic listening paradigms. The pattern of electrophysiologic results was consistent with a deficit in the efficiency of interhemispheric transfer of auditory information. A possible reason for the greater effectiveness of electrophysiologic over behavioral measures is discussed.



Using a laser velocimeter, responses to tones were measured at a basilar membrane site located about 1.2 mm from the extreme basal end of the gerbil cochlea. In two exceptional cochleae in which function was only moderately disrupted by surgical preparations, basilar membrane responses had characteristic frequencies (CFs) of 34-37 kHz and exhibited a CF-specific compressive nonlinearity: Sensitivity near the CF decreased systematically and the response peaks shifted toward lower frequencies with increasing stimulus level. Response phases also changed with increases in stimulus level, exhibiting small relative lags and leads at frequencies just lower and higher than CF, respectively. Basilar membrane responses to low-level CF tones exceeded the magnitude of stapes vibrations by 54-56 dB. Response phases led stapes vibrations by about 90 degrees at low stimulus frequencies; at higher frequencies, basilar membrane responses increasingly lagged stapes vibration, accumulating 1.5 periods of phase lag at CF. Postmortem, nonlinearities were abolished and responses peaked at approximately 0.5 octave below CF, with phases which lagged and led in vivo responses at frequencies lower and higher than CF, respectively. In conclusion, basilar membrane responses near the round window of the gerbil cochlea closely resemble those for other basal cochlear sites in gerbil and other species.
The glutamate/aspartate transporter GLAST is known to occur in the plasma membrane of supporting cells and their glialike processes around the synaptic region of inner hair cells of the mammalian cochlea. Its function there is presumably to take up glutamate following the release of this putative amino acid neurotransmitter from the inner hair cells. In this study, we have investigated whether GLAST is also associated with the outer hair cells using postembedding immunogold labeling. This is interesting because it is uncertain whether the outer hair cells have a functional synapse at which glutamate may be released. However, earlier ultrastructural studies of the afferent synapses in outer hair cells in several mammalian species have shown features normally associated with synaptic activity. These observations are confirmed and extended here in guinea pig where these afferent synapses have presynaptic bodies, putative synaptic vesicles, and coated pits associated with them. Immunoreactivity for GLAST was found along the plasma membranes of Deiters' cells, especially around the synaptic region of the hair cell, on processes wrapped around approaching nerve fibers. Semiquantitative analysis of the distribution of immunogold labeling of Deiters' cells confirmed that it was densest in the region adjacent to the synapses. There was also more labeling in apical than in basal regions of the cochlea in three of the four animals examined, suggesting an association with the number of afferent synapses, which are more numerous in apical regions. Interestingly, labeling also occurred in other regions of the cell membrane away from the afferent terminals. This suggests that glutamate uptake is also required away from the immediate vicinity of synapses, perhaps as a consequence of glutamate dispersal resulting from the mechanical displacement of the cochlear partition during stimulation. Nonetheless, the particular association of GLAST with the synaptic region of the outer hair cell implies that the latter have active afferent synapses at which glutamate is released.
A novel chymotrypsin-like proteinase termed myonase was previously purified from MDX-mouse skeletal muscle [Hori et al. (1998) J. Biochem. 123, 650-658]. Western blots and immunohistochemical analyses showed that myonase was present within myocytes of both MDX-mouse and control mouse, and subcellular fractionation showed that it was associated with myofibrils. No significant difference was observed on Western blots between the amounts of myonase in myofibrils of MDX-mouse and control mouse, but the amount of myonase recoverable as a pure protein was 5-10-fold more when MDX-mouse was the source of the skeletal muscle. Myofibrils also possessed an endogenous inhibitor of myonase, whose inhibitory activity at physiological pH (pH 7.4) depended on salt concentration, stronger inhibition being observed at a low salt concentration. Inhibition at alkaline pH (pH 9) was weak and independent of salt concentration. Myonase in myofibrils was partially released at neutral pH by a high salt concentration (&gt;0.6 M NaCl). However, even at 4 M NaCl, more than 80% of myonase remained within the myofibrils. Under alkaline conditions, release of myonase from myofibril was more extensive. At pH 12, myonase was almost completely present in the soluble fraction. Release of myonase under these conditions coincided with the solubilization of other myofibrillar proteins.
DNA microarray users face many challenges to obtain accurate results, including complex technical errors, natural variability of biological systems, imperfect reproducibility of reference standards, and difficulties in acquisition and processing of large amounts of data. Therefore, investigators should be aware of potential sources of variability and account for them in the experimental design and execution. This work reports our experience in identifying factors that alter the reliability of the results and in diminishing effects of these factors. We have studied the hybridization reproducibility in cDNA microarray chips, both as absolute values and expression ratios, and the nature and impact of several technical, acquisition, and processing errors. A new experimental strategy is proposed and mathematical algorithms developed that efficiently correct the errors and thereby increase the information obtainable through microarray studies. These algorithms reduced the variability not associated with biological system to less than a quarter of its initial value and have substantially enhanced reliability in experiments on brain and cultured neuroblastoma cells.
Transient cerebral ischemia following 1 to 2 hours of middle cerebral artery occlusion (MCAO) in the rat leads to infarction, which can be diminished by synaptic transmission modulators, implying aberrant cell signaling in the pathogenetic process. The authors report here changes in the levels of tyrosine phosphorylated proteins (PTyr) and calcium calmodulin kinase II (CaMKII) phosphorylation of Thr 286, in synaptosomal, particulate, and cytosolic fractions of different cortical areas following 1 or 2 hours of MCAO, or 2 hours of MCAO followed by 2 hours of reperfusion. At the end of 2-hour MCAO, PTyr, and in particular the pp180, indicative of NR2A/B subunit, increased in the synaptosomal fraction in less ischemic areas while it decreased in more severe ischemic regions. During reperfusion, phosphorylation increased at least 2-fold in all reperfused areas. During 2 hours of MCAO, the phosphorylation of CaMKII increased 8- to 10-fold in the synaptosomal fraction in all ischemic brain regions. During reperfusion, the phospho-CaMKII levels remained elevated by approximately 300% compared with the contralateral hemisphere (control). There was no increase in phospho-CaMKII in the cytosolic fraction at any time during or following ischemia in any of the brain regions examined. The authors conclude that both tyrosine kinase coupled pathways, as well as CaMKII-mediated cellular processes associated with synaptic activity, are strongly activated during and particularly following MCAO. These results support the hypothesis that aberrant cell signaling may contribute to ischemic cell death and dysfunction, and that selective modulators of cell signaling may be targets for pharmacological intervention against ischemic brain damage.
Protection of both grey and white matter is important for improvement in stroke outcome. In the present study the ability of a competitive alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazole propionic acid (AMPA) antagonist to protect axons, oligodendrocytes, and neuronal perikarya, was examined in a rodent model of transient focal cerebral ischemia. SPD 502 (8-methyl-5-(4-( -dimethylsulfamoyl)phenyl)-6,7,8,9-tetrahydro-1H-pyrrolo[3,2h]-isoquinoline-2,3-dione-3-o(4-hydroxybutyricacid-2-yl)oxime) was administered as an intravenous bolus (16 mg/kg) 15 minutes before transient (3-hour) middle cerebral artery (MCA) occlusion, followed by an intravenous infusion (16 mg kg(-1) hr(-1)) of the drug for 4 hours. Twenty-one hours after ischemia, axonal damage was reduced by 45% (P = 0.006) in the SPD 502-treated group compared with the vehicle. The anatomic extent of ischemically damaged oligodendrocytes, determined by Tau1 immunoreactivity, was reduced in the cerebral cortex by 53% (P = 0.024) in SPD 502-treated rats compared with vehicle-treated rats, but there was minimal effect in the subcortex. The volume of neuronal perikaryal damage after MCA occlusion was significantly reduced by SPD 502 in the cerebral cortex (by 68%; P = 0.005), but there was minimal change in the subcortex with drug treatment. The AMPA receptor antagonist significantly reduced the anatomic extent of lipid peroxidation (assessed as the volume of 4-hydroxynonenol immunoreactivity), and this may have contributed to its ability to protect multiple cell types in ischemia. The data demonstrate that AMPA blockade protects both grey and white matter from damage induced by transient focal ischemia.
We report an unusual variant of acute motor axonal neuropathy completely restricted to the lower limbs and responding rapidly to intravenous immunoglobulin (IVIG). A 31-year-old man presented with 4 weeks of progressive weakness in the lower limbs. Magnetic resonance images of the spine had been normal. On neurologic examination he had symmetric weakness in the lower limbs, but muscle strength in the arms was normal. Tendon reflexes were absent. Cranial nerves and sensation were normal. Electromyography (EMG) revealed an axonal involvement with changes restricted to the lower limbs. A lumbar puncture 4 weeks after onset showed elevated protein content; cell count was normal. The patient improved rapidly after treatment with 0.4 g/kg IVIG per day for 5 days. Eight weeks after treatment EMG revealed fast reinnervation, and the only clinical sequelae was slight weakness of ankle flexion.

Few studies have characterised apoptosis in a brain injury model that causes a significant degree of diffuse axonal injury. Such characterisation is essential from a clinical viewpoint since diffuse axonal injury is a major component of human head injury. The present study therefore, examines the expression of active and proactive caspase-3, and the bax, bcl-2 and bcl-x members of the bcl-2 family, to characterise the temporal profile of apoptosis in a model of traumatic brain injury in rats that produces significant diffuse axonal injury. Pentobarbital anaesthetised male Sprague-Dawley rats were injured using the 2m impact-acceleration model of diffuse traumatic brain injury. After injury, diffuse trauma resulted in an increased bax expression followed by induction of caspase-3. The increase in caspase-3 was simultaneous with an increase in anti-apoptotic bcl-2 expression. Bcl-x levels were increased after induction of caspase-3 and the increased levels of bcl-x were sustained to the end of the 5-day observation period. Increased active caspase-3 expression was associated with the appearance of TUNEL positive cells. These cells were detected in different brain regions at different times, with some regions showing no apoptotic cells until 3 days after injury. No TUNEL positive cells were detected at 7 and 14 days after injury. DNA electrophoresis confirmed that DNA fragmentation was maximal at 3 days after injury. Increased active caspase-3 levels were also significantly correlated with increased bcl-2 levels (r=0.80; P&lt;0.001) suggesting that the apoptotic cascade after diffuse traumatic brain injury is a carefully controlled cellular homeostatic response. Pharmacological manipulation of this balance may offer a therapeutic approach for preventing cell death and improving outcome after diffuse traumatic brain injury.
Respiratory chain dysfunction has been established as having a primary pathoaetiological role in certain relatively rare multisystem disorders (typically encephalomyopathies) and postulated as having an important role in commoner neurodegenerative disorders including Alzheimer dementia and Parkinson's disease. In the latter conditions, there is considerable evidence that non-mitochondrial factors have a key role in causation, making it unlikely that respiratory chain failure is the central event in pathoaetiology. Evidence is presented in this paper suggesting a role for mitochondrial dysfunction in upstream events predisposing to neurodegeneration, and in downstream events accelerating cell dysfunction and loss. While probably not having a primary role in pathoaetiology, respiratory chain dysfunction may still be an important risk factor for development of late life neurodegenerative disease and an important effector mechanism in neuronal dysfunction, and therefore represents a legitimate therapeutic target.
This paper reports on the consequences of large, activity dependent, synaptic conductances for neurons in a large-scale neuronal network model of the input layer 4Calpha of the Macaque primary visual cortex (Area V1). This high conductance state accounts for experimental observations about orientation selectivity, dynamics, and response magnitude (D. McLaughlin et al. (2000) Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 97: 8087-8092), and the linear dependence of Simple cells on visual stimuli (J. Wielaard et al. (2001) J. Neuroscience 21: 5203-5211). The source of large conductances in the model can be traced to inhibitory corticocortical synapses, and the model's predictions of large conductance changes are consistent with recent intracellular measurements (L. Borg-Graham et al. (1998) Nature 393: 369-373; J. Hirsch et al. (1998) J. Neuroscience 15: 9517-9528; J.S. Anderson et al. (2000) J. Neurophysiol. 84: 909-926). During visual stimulation, these conductances are large enough that their associated time-scales become the shortest in the model cortex, even below that of synaptic interactions. One consequence of this activity driven separation of time-scales is that a neuron responds very quickly to temporal changes in its synaptic drive, with its intracellular membrane potential tracking closely an effective reversal potential composed of the instantaneous synaptic inputs. From the effective potential and large synaptic conductance, the spiking activity of a cell can be expressed in an interesting and simplified manner, with the result suggesting how accurate and smoothly graded responses are achieved in the model network. Further, since neurons in this high-conductance state respond quickly, they are also good candidates as coincidence detectors and burst transmitters.

In this study we investigated whether electroconvulsive stimuli (ECS) altered the regional brain protein concentrations of nerve growth factor (NGF), brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF), and glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF) in Sprague Dawley rats. Electroconvulsive stimuli were administered once daily for 8 days. At the end of the experiment, rats were killed, the brains were dissected into five regions, and the neurotrophic factors were extracted and measured by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay. Electroconvulsive stimuli increased the concentrations of NGF in the frontal cortex and concentrations of BDNF in the hippocampus, the striatum, and the occipital cortex. In contrast, ECS decreased GDNF concentrations in the hippocampus and the striatum. Our data indicate that neurotrophic factors play a role in the mechanism of action of ECS and, by extrapolation, may play a role in the mechanism of action of electroconvulsive treatment.
All vertebrates regulate body temperature within narrow limits, regardless of their physiological capabilities. When do these limits develop, and can they be modified by manipulations of the developmental thermal environment? We addressed these questions by incubating the eggs of the Madagascar ground gecko, Paroedura pictus, at three temperatures and by assessing thermoregulatory behavior in hatchlings. Thermoregulatory behavior was assessed using a two-choice shuttle paradigm, and skin temperatures were measured non-invasively using infrared thermography. The shuttling behavior of hatchlings was systematically affected by the temperature at which they were incubated, and follow-up tests suggested that this effect persisted for at least three weeks post-hatching. The body temperature data from the shuttling experiment were used to model thermoregulatory behavior in a complex thermal environment; the model predicted systematic effects of incubation temperature on thermal preference. The specificity of the alteration in thermoregulatory behavior by incubation temperature is compelling and provides evidence for powerful pre-hatching influences on a fundamental, life-sustaining behavioral process.
Behavioral interactions among social animals can regulate both reproductive behavior and fertility. A prime example of socially regulated reproduction occurs in the cichlid fish Haplochromis burtoni, in which interactions between males dynamically regulate gonadal function throughout life. This plasticity is mediated by the brain, where neurons that contain the key reproductive regulatory peptide gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH) change size reversibly depending on male social status. To understand how behavior controls the brain, we manipulated the social system of these fish, quantified their behavior and then assessed neural and physiological changes in the reproductive and stress axes. GnRH gene expression was assessed using molecular probes specific for the three GnRH forms in the brain of H. burtoni. We found that perception of social opportunity to increase status by a male leads to heightened aggressiveness, to increased expression of only one of the three GnRH forms and to increases in size of GnRH-containing neurons and of the gonads. The biological changes characteristic of social ascent happen faster than changes following social descent. Interestingly, behavioral changes show the reverse pattern: aggressive behaviors emerge more slowly in ascending animals than they disappear in descending animals. Although the gonads and GnRH neurons undergo similar changes in female H. burtoni, regulation occurs via endogenous rather than exogenous social signals. Our data show that recognition of social signals by males alters stress levels, which may contribute to the alteration in GnRH gene expression in particular neurons essential for the animal to perform in its new social status.
Stem segments prepared from pondweed (Potamo geton distinctus A. Benn.) turions (overwintering buds) elongate in anaerobic conditions, whereas there is almost no elongation in air. The anaerobic elongation was accompanied by a decrease in dry weights of stem segments, mainly due to consumption of storage starch in the amyloplasts of stem cells. On the other hand, total contents of amino acids increased in stem segments, in which contents of alanine, valine, leucine, and isoleucine increased, but contents of asparatic acid decreased. Moreover, contents of lactate in stem tissues increased at an early stage of anaerobic incubation. In tracer experiments with 14C-glucose, 14C incorporation into stem tissues in anoxia was only half of that in normoxia. However, conversion of 14C to ethanol occurred exclusively in anoxia. 14C-labelled metabolites were analysed by two-dimensional cellulose thin-layer chromatography. 14C incorporation into sucrose and alanine was significantly increased in anoxia. The activity of alanine aminotransferase was enhanced by anoxia, suggesting that pyruvate is a precursor of alanine synthesis. The results suggest that pondweed turions produce energy necessary for anaerobic elongation by activating conversion of storage starch in the amyloplasts to ethanol, alanine and lactate.
Age-related macular degeneration (AMD) is currently the leading cause of severe visual acuity loss in people over the age of 50 in the Western world. Most of the visual loss is due to choroidal neovascularization (CNV). Laser photocoagulation is the only proven treatment for selected cases of AMD; however, it can only be used with less than 20% of patients at the time of diagnosis. Among experimental therapies currently being tested, photodynamic therapy has recently proven its efficacy in randomized multicenter studies for predominantly classic subfoveal pure occult type CNVs.
During the digestive-tract phase of infection, poliovirus (PV) is found in the oropharynx and the intestine. It has been proposed that PV enters the organism by crossing M cells, which are scattered in the epithelial sheet covering lymphoid follicles of Peyer's patches. However, PV translocation through M cells has never been demonstrated. A model of M-like cells has been previously developed using monolayers of polarized Caco-2 enterocytes cocultured with lymphocytes isolated from Peyer's patches. In this model, lymphoepithelial interactions trigger the appearance of epithelial cells having morphological and functional characteristics of M cells. We have demonstrated efficient, temperature-dependent PV transcytosis in Caco-2 cell monolayers containing M-like cells. This experimental evidence is consistent with M cells serving as gateways allowing PV access to the basal face of enterocytes, the underlying immune follicle cells, and PV transport toward mesenteric lymph nodes.

The purpose of this study was to identify local knowledge and practices of, and barriers to, the home management of childhood diarrhoea in a poor periurban district of the Dominican Republic. In total, 582 caregivers of children aged five years and younger were interviewed using a structured questionnaire. Forty-six percent of the caregivers reported that one of their children had experienced diarrhoea within the last month. There was high reported use of ORS and knowledge of its preparation and principal function. However, there were many obstacles to its use. Other concerns included high rates of dietary restrictions during diarrhoea, positive view of the use of antibiotics, poor knowledge of preparation of sugar-salt solutions, and low attention given to clinical indicators as reasons for seeking professional treatment. Health-promotion efforts should target these areas of concerns to further improve the management of childhood diarrhoea in this district.
The Italian psychiatrist Ernesto Lugaro can be regarded as responsible for introducing the term plasticity into the neurosciences as early as 1906. By this term he meant that throughout life the anatomo-functional relations between neurons can change in an adaptive fashion to enable psychic maturation, learning, and even functional recovery after brain damage. Lugaro's concept of plasticity was strongly inspired by a neural hypothesis of learning and memory put forward in 1893 by his teacher Eugenio Tanzi. Tanzi postulated that practice and experience promote neuronal growth and shorten the minute spatial gaps between functionally associated neurons, thus facilitating their interactions. In addition to discovering the cerebellar cells known by his name and advancing profound speculations about the functions of the glia, Lugaro lucidly foresaw the chemical nature of synaptic transmission in the central nervous system, and was the first to propose the usage of the terms &quot;nervous conduction&quot; and &quot;nervous transmission&quot; in their currently accepted meaning.

In this, our continuation paper on Helmholtz and Mller, we examine Helmholtz's contributions to sensation and perception, with emphasis on his extension and modification of Mller's theory of specific nerve energies. The material is again presented in biographical-chronological context. We also examine Helmholtz's views on depth and space perception, and his empirical theory of knowledge, which are also compared to Mller's views. It will be shown that Helmholtz remained stimulated by the thoughts and doctrines of Johannes Mller in the sensory-perceptual part of his career, which began early in the 1850s and ended with his death. Nevertheless, Helmholtz's own experiments and new discoveries by others sometimes led him to quite different conclusions.

Antibodies against Mycobacterium tuberculosis antigens were detected by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay in cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) samples obtained from 442 patients with tuberculous meningitis (TBM) and 102 control patients. Antibodies were found in the CSF of 87% of patients with clinical (culture-negative) TBM, 72% of patients with culture-positive TBM, and 65% of patients with autopsy-proven TBM. That anti-M. tuberculosis antibodies were detected in the CSF of patients with clinically diagnosed cases more frequently than in patients with culture-positive cases suggests that the detection of antibodies in CSF tends to decrease as bacillary load increases. Of the patients with clinical TBM who were coinfected with human immunodeficiency virus (HIV), 70% exhibited anti-M. tuberculosis antibody in CSF, which suggests that antibody responses in this group were substantially weaker than those in HIV-negative patients with clinical TBM. Some groups showed a stronger response to certain antigens, which suggests that antigen recognition patterns may be specific for the stage of disease.
A Stroop negative priming (NP) task was used to assess immediate selective attention and priming in schizophrenia and schizoaffective disorder. Subject groups were comprised of 12 state hospital inpatients (41.8 +/- 7.5 years of age), 11 outpatients (39.8 +/- 7.5 years of age), and 16 controls (36.4 +/- 11.7 years of age). Compared with the control group and the outpatients, inpatients failed to exhibit NP [F(2,36) = 6.09, p &lt; .01], despite exhibiting equivalent Stroop RT interference (p &gt; .05). Error rates did not differ significantly between the 3 groups. Although medication types and dosages were similar between the 2 patient groups, length of illness was significantly longer in the inpatients (19.8 years) than in the outpatients (12.4 years; p &lt; .05). Positive symptom ratings were also significantly higher in the inpatients. The finding of reduced NP in the state hospital patients appears to be related to severity of symptomatology and chronicity of illness.
Addiction to psychostimulants elicits behavioral and biochemical changes that are assumed to be mediated by alterations of gene expression in the brain. The changes in gene expression after 3 weeks of withdrawal from chronic cocaine treatment were evaluated in the nucleus accumbens core and shell, dorsal prefrontal cortex and caudate using a complementary DNA (cDNA) array. The level of mRNA encoded by several genes was identified as being up- or down-regulated in repeated cocaine versus saline subjects. The results from the cDNA array were subsequently confirmed at the protein level with immunoblotting. Of particular interest, parallel up-regulation in protein and mRNA was found for the adenosine A1 receptor in the accumbens core, neuroglycan C in the accumbens shell, and the GluR5 glutamate receptor subtype in dorsal prefrontal cortex. However, there was an increase in TrkB protein in the nucleus accumbens core of cocaine-treated rats without a corresponding alteration in mRNA. These changes of gene expression in corticolimbic circuitry may contribute to the psychostimulant-induced behavioral changes associated with addiction.
In the CNS, histamine is a neurotransmitter that is inactivated by histamine N-methyltransferase (HNMT), a soluble enzyme localized to the cytosol of neurons and endothelial cells. However, it has not been established how extracellular histamine, a charged molecule at physiological pH, reaches intracellular HNMT. Present studies investigated two potential routes of histamine inactivation in mouse brain nerve terminal fractions (synaptosomes): (i) histamine uptake and (ii) histamine metabolism by HNMT. Intact synaptosomes demonstrated a weak temperature-dependent histamine uptake (0.098 pmol/min-mg protein), but contained a much greater capacity to metabolize histamine by HNMT (1.4 pmol/min-mg protein). Determination of the distribution of HNMT within synaptosomes revealed that synaptosomal membranes (devoid of soluble HNMT) contribute HNMT activity equivalent to intact synaptosomes (14.3 +/- 2.2 and 18.2 +/- 4.3 pmol/min-tube, respectively) and suggested that histamine-methylating activity is associated with the membrane fraction. Additional experimental findings that support this hypothesis include: (i) the histamine metabolite tele-methylhistamine (tMH) was found exclusively in the supernatant fraction following an HNMT assay with intact synaptosomes; (ii) the membrane-bound HNMT activity was shown to increase 6.5-fold upon the solubilization of the membranes with 0.1% Triton X-100; and (iii) HNMT activity from the S2 fraction, ruptured synaptosomes, and synaptosomal membranes displayed different stability profiles when stored over 23 days at - 20 degrees C. Taken together, these studies demonstrate functional evidence for the existence of membrane-bound HNMT. Although molecular studies have not yet identified the nature of this activity, the present work suggests that levels of biologically active histamine may be controlled by an extracellular process.
One of the most striking features of neurons in the mature peripheral nervous system is their ability to survive and to regenerate their axons following axonal injury. To perform a comprehensive survey of the molecular mechanisms that underlie peripheral nerve regeneration, we analyzed a cDNA library derived from the distal stumps of post-injured sciatic nerve which was enriched in non-myelinating Schwann cells using cDNA microarrays. The number of up- and down-regulated genes in the transected sciatic nerve was 370 and 157, respectively, of the 9596 spotted genes. In the up-regulated group, the number of known genes was 216 and the number of expressed sequence tag (EST) sequences was 154. In the down-regulated group, the number of known genes was 103 and that of EST sequences was 54. We obtained several genes that were previously reported to be involved in regeneration of the injured neurons, such as cathepsin D, ninjurin 1, tenascin C, and co-receptor for glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor family of trophic factors. In addition to unknown genes, there seemed to be a lot of annotated genes whose role in nerve regeneration remains unknown.
The serine/threonine protein kinase B (PKB)/Akt is a phosphoinositide 3-kinase (PI3K) effector that is thought to play an important roll in a wide variety of cellular events. The present study examined whether PKB activation in cortical neuronal cultures is coupled with synaptic activity. A 1-h incubation of neuronal cultures with tetrodotoxin (TTX), the PI3K inhibitor wortmannin, the NMDA receptor antagonist MK-801 or removal of extracellular calcium significantly reduced basal levels of phospho(Ser473)-PKB, indicating that activity-dependent glutamate release maintains PKB activation through an NMDA receptor-PI3K pathway. A 5-min exposure to NMDA (50 micro m) in the presence of TTX increased phospho-PKB back to levels observed in the absence of TTX. NMDA stimulation of phospho-PKB was blocked by wortmannin, the CaMKII inhibitor KN-93, MK-801, and removal of extracellular calcium. We have previously shown that NMDA receptors can bi-directionally regulate activation of extracellular-signal regulated kinase (ERK), and NMDA receptor stimulation of PKB in the present study appeared to mirror activation of ERK. These results suggest that in cultured cortical neurons, PKB activity is dynamically regulated by synaptic activity and is coupled to NMDA receptor activation. In addition, NMDA receptor activation of ERK and PKB may occur through overlapping signaling pathways that bifurcate at the level of Ras.
Brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) supports hippocampal, cortical and basal forebrain cholinergic neurons, which lose function in Alzheimer's disease. In Alzheimer's tissues such as hippocampus and parietal cortex, brain- derived neurotrophic factor mRNA is decreased three- to four-fold compared with controls. However, the molecular mechanism of the down-regulation of BDNF in Alzheimer's disease is unknown. The human brain-derived neurotrophic factor gene has multiple promoters governing six non-coding upstream exons that are spliced to one downstream coding exon, leading to six different transcripts. Here we report an alternate human splice variant within exon 4I for a total of seven transcripts. Previous brain-derived neurotrophic factor mRNA measurements in Alzheimer's disease tissue were done using the downstream coding exon present in all transcripts. Using RT-PCR primers specific for each upstream exon, we observe a significant decrease in three human brain-derived neurotrophic factor mRNA transcripts in Alzheimer's disease samples compared with controls. Transcripts 1 and 3 each exhibit a two-fold decrease, and transcript 2 shows a five-fold decrease. There are no significant differences between control and Alzheimer's disease samples for the other transcripts, including the new splice variant. In rat, both transcripts 1 and 3 are regulated through the transcription factor cAMP response element binding protein, whose phosphorylation is decreased in the Alzheimer's disease brain. This could lead to specific down-regulation of the brain-derived neurotrophic factor transcripts shown here.
The cDNA expression array is a recently developed scientific tool that can profile the differential expression of several hundreds of genes simultaneously and is therefore advantageous in the study of antipsychotic drug action at the genetic level. Using this technology, we discovered 14 genes in the rat striatum whose expression was changed by &gt;/= 50% following chronic haloperidol treatment. Among them was the synapsin II gene, which was found to be significantly up-regulated after the treatment. Since recent studies have implicated this gene in schizophrenia, further experiments were performed to determine whether chronic haloperidol exposure resulted in concurrent increases in the expression of striatal synapsin II protein. Immunoblotting revealed that protein levels of both the a and b isoforms of synapsin II were also increased by comparable amounts following haloperidol treatment. This study is the first to show the regulation of synapsin II expression by haloperidol at the transcript and protein level in rat striatum. A possible mechanism for the observed haloperidol-induced increase in striatal synapsin II expression, along with the implications of this up-regulation in chronic haloperidol treatment, is presented.
N-terminally truncated amyloid-beta (Abeta) peptides are present in early and diffuse plaques of individuals with Alzheimer's disease (AD), are overproduced in early onset familial AD and their amount seems to be directly correlated to the severity and the progression of the disease in AD and Down's syndrome (DS). The pyroglutamate-containing isoforms at position 3 [AbetaN3(pE)-40/42] represent the prominent form among the N-truncated species, and may account for more than 50% of Abeta accumulated in plaques. In this study, we compared the toxic properties, fibrillogenic capabilities, and in vitro degradation profile of Abeta1-40, Abeta1-42, AbetaN3(pE)-40 and AbetaN3(pE)-42. Our data show that fibre morphology of Abeta peptides is greatly influenced by the C-terminus while toxicity, interaction with cell membranes and degradation are influenced by the N-terminus. AbetaN3(pE)-40 induced significantly more cell loss than the other species both in neuronal and glial cell cultures. Aggregated AbetaN3(pE) peptides were heavily distributed on plasma membrane and within the cytoplasm of treated cells. AbetaN3(pE)-40/42 peptides showed a significant resistance to degradation by cultured astrocytes, while full-length peptides resulted partially degraded. These findings suggest that formation of N-terminally modified peptides may enhance beta-amyloid aggregation and toxicity, likely worsening the onset and progression of the disease.
Macrophage colony stimulating factor (M-CSF) and its receptor are up-regulated in the brain in Alzheimer's disease (AD), in transgenic mouse models for AD, and experimental models for traumatic and ischemic brain injury. M-CSF induces activation and proliferation of microglial cells and expression of proinflammatory cytokines. We examined the role of M-CSF in excitotoxic neuronal cell death in organotypic hippocampal cultures. NMDA treatment induced neuronal apoptosis and caspase-3 activation in organotypic hippocampal cultures, whereas treatment with M-CSF protected hippocampal neurons from NMDA-induced apoptosis. Caspase-3 activation was inhibited by M-CSF treatment to the same degree as with the caspase inhibitor Z-VAD-FMK. These results suggest that M-CSF has neuroprotective properties through inhibition of caspase-3 that could promote neuronal survival after excitotoxic insult. The role of M-CSF in neurological disease should be reevaluated as a microglial activator with potentially neuroprotective effects.
To determine the role of brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) in the enhancement of hippocampal neurogenesis resulting from dietary restriction (DR), heterozygous BDNF knockout (BDNF +/-) mice and wild-type mice were maintained for 3 months on DR or ad libitum (AL) diets. Mice were then injected with bromodeoxyuridine (BrdU) and killed either 1 day or 4 weeks later. Levels of BDNF protein in neurons throughout the hippocampus were decreased in BDNF +/- mice, but were increased by DR in wild-type mice and to a lesser amount in BDNF +/- mice. One day after BrdU injection the number of BrdU-labeled cells in the dentate gyrus of the hippocampus was significantly decreased in BDNF +/- mice maintained on the AL diet, suggesting that BDNF signaling is important for proliferation of neural stem cells. DR had no effect on the proliferation of neural stem cells in wild-type or BDNF +/- mice. Four weeks after BrdU injection, numbers of surviving labeled cells were decreased in BDNF +/- mice maintained on either AL or DR diets. DR significantly improved survival of newly generated cells in wild-type mice, and also improved their survival in BDNF +/- mice, albeit to a lesser extent. The majority of BrdU-labeled cells in the dentate gyrus exhibited a neuronal phenotype at the 4-week time point. The reduced neurogenesis in BDNF +/- mice was associated with a significant reduction in the volume of the dentate gyrus. These findings suggest that BDNF plays an important role in the regulation of the basal level of neurogenesis in dentate gyrus of adult mice, and that by promoting the survival of newly generated neurons BDNF contributes to the enhancement of neurogenesis induced by DR.
Chemokines represent key factors in the outburst of the immune response, by activating and directing the leukocyte traffic, both in lymphopoiesis and in immune surveillance. Neurobiologists took little interest in chemokines for many years, until their link to acquired immune deficiency syndrome-associated dementia became established, and thus their importance in this field has been neglected. Nevertheless, the body of data on their expression and role in the CNS has grown in the past few years, along with a new vision of brain as an immunologically competent and active organ. A large number of chemokines and chemokine receptors are expressed in neurons, astrocytes, microglia and oligodendrocytes, either constitutively or induced by inflammatory mediators. They are involved in many neuropathological processes in which an inflammatory state persists, as well as in brain tumor progression and metastasis. Moreover, there is evidence for a crucial role of CNS chemokines under physiological conditions, similar to well known functions in the immune system, such as proliferation and developmental patterning, but also peculiar to the CNS, such as regulation of neural transmission, plasticity and survival.
In a previous study we provided evidence that dorsal root ganglion (DRG) neurons of different phenotypes have different birthdates. The present study aimed at determining if birthdates of DRG neurons are related to different types of peripheral nerves, namely cutaneous versus muscle, and somatic versus visceral. Pregnant rats were injected intraperitoneally with bromodeoxyuridine (BrdU) to label the neurons on one of the embryonic days E12-E16. When the progeny rats reached adulthood, a mixture of 1% B-fragment of cholera toxin and 1% isolectin B4 from Griffonia simplicifolia I was injected into the peripheral nerves, or a 5% Fluoro-Gold solution was applied to the transected end of the nerves. The saphenous and sural nerves were used as cutaneous nerves, the gastrocnemius nerve as a muscle nerve, the intercostal nerves T9-11 as somatic nerves and the greater splanchnic nerve as a visceral nerve. Cell size measurements were made of DRG neurons labeled from the two cutaneous nerves and the muscle nerve, as well as of neurons of the saphenous and gastrocnemius nerves labeled by BrdU at different embryonic stages. Most of the DRG neurons of the muscle and intercostal nerves were generated early, with peaks at E13, and those of the cutaneous and visceral afferent nerves later, with peaks at E14. The temporal differences were reflected in the cell size spectrum, the muscle nerve having a greater proportion of large neurons compared to the cutaneous nerves. The findings add to previous knowledge regarding the sequence of development of different DRG phenotypes.
In this study, we report the cloning of the rat cGMP-specific phosphodiesterase type 9 (PDE9A) and its localization in rat and mouse brain by non-radioactive in situ hybridization. Rat PDE9A was 97.6% identical to mouse PDE9A1 and showed 92.1% similarity on the amino acid level to the human homologue. PDE9A mRNA was widely distributed throughout the rat and mouse brain, with the highest expression observed in cerebellar Purkinje cells. Furthermore, strong staining was detected in areas such as cortical layer V, olfactory tubercle, caudate putamen and hippocampal pyramidal and granule cells. Comparison of PDE9A mRNA expression by double staining with the cellular markers NeuN and glial fibrillary acidic protein demonstrated that PDE9A expression was mainly detected in neurons and in a subpopulation of astrocytes. Using cGMP-immunocytochemistry, the localization of cGMP was investigated in the cerebellum in which the highest PDE9 expression was demonstrated. Strong cGMP immunoreactivity was detected in the molecular layer in the presence of the non-selective PDE inhibitor 3-isobutyl-1-methylxanthine (IBMX). After treatment with soluble guanylyl cyclase activators the granular layer also showed cGMP staining, whereas no clear immunostaining was detected in Purkinje cells under all conditions investigated, which might be due to the presence of the IBMX-insensitive PDE9A in these cells. The present findings indicate that PDE9A is highly conserved between species and is widely distributed throughout the rodent brain. PDE9A is probably involved in maintenance of low cGMP levels in cells and might play an important role in a variety of brain functions involving cGMP-mediated signal transduction.
A column of parvalbumin immunoreactive neurons is closely associated with the location of respiratory neurons in the ventrolateral medulla of the rat. The majority (66%) of bulbospinal neurons in the medullary ventral respiratory column (VRC) that were retrogradely labeled by tracer injections in the phrenic nucleus were also positive for parvalbumin. In contrast, only 18.8% of VRC neurons retrogradely labeled after a tracer injection in the VRC, also expressed parvalbumin. The average cross-sectional area of VRC neurons retrogradely labeled after VRC injections was 193.8 microm2 +/- 6.6 SE. These were significantly smaller than VRC parvalbumin neurons (271.9 microm2 +/- 12.3 SE). Parvalbumin neurons were found in the Btzinger Complex, the rostral ventral respiratory group (VRG), and the caudal VRG, areas which all contribute to the bulbospinal projection. In contrast, parvalbumin neurons were sparse or absent in the preBtzinger Complex and in the vicinity of the retrotrapezoid nucleus, areas that have few bulbospinal projections. Parvalbumin was rarely colocalized within Neurokinin-1 receptor positive (NK1R) VRC neurons, which are found in the preBtzinger complex and in the anteroventral part of the rostral VRG. Parvalbumin neurons in the Btzinger Complex and rostral VRG help define the rostrocaudal extent of these regions. The absence of parvalbumin neurons from the intervening preBtzinger complex also helps establish the boundaries of this region. Regional boundaries described in this manner are in good agreement with earlier physiological and anatomical studies. Taken together, the distributions of parvalbumin, NK1R and bulbospinal neurons suggest that the rostral VRG may be subdivided into distinct, anterodorsal, anteroventral, and posterior subdivisions.
Serotonergic transmission is terminated by serotonin transporter (SERT)-mediated uptake following activation of serotonin receptors, several subtypes of which are present in the medial nucleus of the solitary tract (mNTS) at the area postrema level. In this region, serotonin (5HT) is a major modulator of the baroreceptor reflex and also affects gastric motility. This serotonin is derived from multiple sources including local neurons and inputs from raphe and visceral vagal afferents. To determine the relevant functional sites for serotonin uptake in the mNTS, we examined the electron microscopic localization of SERTs using both immunoperoxidase and immunogold labeling in rat brain. In addition, we combined these methods for dual labeling of SERTs and 5HT2A receptors to detect whether the SERT in this region was located near or at a distance from the sites of activation of these G-protein coupled receptors. Intensive SERT immunolabeling was seen on plasma membranes of axons and morphologically heterogeneous axon terminals that formed symmetric or asymmetric synapses on dendrites without detectable 5HT2A immunoreactivity (IR). 5HT2A-IR was, however, located in other nearby neuronal and glial profiles, some of which apposed intensively SERT-labeled terminals or terminals containing lower intensity of SERT immunolabeling. In somatodendritic profiles, co-expression of SERT and 5HT2A receptor immunolabeling was seen near synapses and Golgi lamellae. Our results suggest that in the mNTS 5HT activates 5HT2A receptors at a distance from SERT-mediated uptake sites in diverse cell types including some that express both 5HT2A receptors and SERTs.


The causes of dyslexia are unknown, but previous studies have suggested an immunological basis in some cases. We hypothesised that maternal antibodies, which cross the placenta and bind to fetal antigens, could be responsible, particularly when the dyslexia recurs in consecutive pregnancies. We injected serum samples from five mothers of two or more children with dyslexia into pregnant mice, and tested the offspring for behavioural abnormalities and cerebellar metabolites by magnetic resonance spectroscopy (MRS). Mice exposed in utero to serum factors from one woman with two dyslexic children, who had also had three spontaneous fetal losses, showed deficits in motor tests which correlated with cerebellar choline (Cho) and creatine (Cr) levels. These preliminary results are consistent with a role for maternal serum factors, probably antibodies, in causing some of the features of dyslexia, and possibly in other neurodevelopmental disorders.
Many autoimmune diseases preferentially affect women; however, the underlying mechanisms for the sex differences are poorly understood. We examined sex-dependent differences in the immunologic response to myelin proteins in 22 multiple sclerosis (MS) patients and 22 healthy controls. Using ELISA spot assay (ELISPOT) methodology, interferon (IFN) gamma and IL-5 secretions were examined at the single cell level in response to overlapping proteolipid protein (PLP) peptides. As previously reported, we observed an overall disease effect in the IFNgamma response, such that MS patients were significantly higher than controls. With respect to PLP-induced IFNgamma secretion, both MS and control females responded higher than their corresponding males. Female MS patients demonstrated the highest responses compared to MS males or healthy controls of either sex. Although MS females had high IFNgamma responses to PLP, they had no IL-5 responses at all, suggesting strong Th1 skewing. In contrast, MS males had more IL-5 than control males, who lacked IL-5 responses. These IL-5 responses suggested that disease and gender are not independent, but rather interact to influence the cytokine response to myelin. The data suggest a gender bias towards Th1 responses in MS, which may contribute to the female predominance in this disease.
The opioid-like receptor (NOP) is widely expressed throughout the human immune system. Here, we report that human peripheral blood lymphocytes (PBLs) express transcripts encoding the NOP receptor agonist, orphanin FQ/nociceptin (OFQ/N). OFQ/N transcripts in resting PBLs were restricted to CD19+B cells and contained a novel 5' exon (ImEx2b), replacing exons 1 and 2 found in neuronal transcripts. Translation of ImEx2b-containing transcripts resulted in truncated OFQ/N precursors lacking a classical signal peptide. Mitogen activation of PBLs dramatically up-regulated neuronal-like transcripts, predominantly in CD3+T cells. Overall, this suggests different promoters direct specific OFQ/N transcript expression in immune cells.
Neuronal transplantation is considered to be a promising therapeutic approach to neurodegenerative diseases. In addition to fetal tissues and neural stem cells, embryonic stem cells are good candidates for the creation of neurons. We have recently identified a stromal cell-derived inducing activity that promotes neural differentiation of mouse embryoric stem cells. This activity accumulated on the surface of PA6 stromal cells and induced efficient neuronal differentiation of co-cultured embryonic stem cells under serum-free conditions without the use of either retinoic acid or embryoid bodies. A high proportion of tyrosine hydroxylase-positive neurons producing dopamine are obtained. Induction of neurons with stromal cell-derived inducing activity may be a useful new method for basic neuroscience research and therapeutic applications, including cell transplantation therapy for Parkinson's disease.


In the diagnosis of functional weakness and sensory disturbance, positive physical signs are as important as absence of signs of disease. Motor signs, particularly Hoover's sign, are more reliable than sensory signs, but none should be used in isolation and must be interpreted in the overall context of the presentation. It should be borne in mind that a patient may have both a functional and an organic disorder.
Taxoids are effective agents against a wide variety of tumors, but their effectiveness on neuroectodermal tumors is not well-known. For this reason we have carried out an experimental study on the effect of intratumoral administration of docetaxel (DC) and paclitaxel (PC) on tumor growth, using a murine model of malignant neuroectodermal tumor. The results showed a delay in tumor growth in animals treated with PC compared with controls (dose of 5 mg/kg, three times per week every other day, forming a cycle; three cycles were completed with a break of a week between each cycle). The total dose administered to each animal was 45 mg/kg. When DC was administered, the results showed distinct tumor growth inhibition and tumor regression in 80% of animals (intratumoral administration at a dose of 5 mg/kg, three times per week every other day forming a cycle; three cycles were completed with a break of a week between each cycle). The total dose administered to each animal was 20 mg/kg. These results suggest the utility of taxoids, mainly DC, by intralesional administration, on malignant tumors of the nervous system.
It has been proposed that the invariant kinematics observed during goal-directed movements result from reducing the consequences of signal-dependent noise (SDN) on motor output. The purpose of this study was to investigate the presence of SDN during isometric force production and determine how central and peripheral components contribute to this feature of motor control. Peripheral and central components were distinguished experimentally by comparing voluntary contractions to those elicited by electrical stimulation of the extensor pollicis longus muscle. To determine other factors of motor-unit physiology that may contribute to SDN, a model was constructed and its output compared with the empirical data. SDN was evident in voluntary isometric contractions as a linear scaling of force variability (SD) with respect to the mean force level. However, during electrically stimulated contractions to the same force levels, the variability remained constant over the same range of mean forces. When the subjects were asked to combine voluntary with stimulation-induced contractions, the linear scaling relationship between the SD and mean force returned. The modeling results highlight that much of the basic physiological organization of the motor-unit pool, such as range of twitch amplitudes and range of recruitment thresholds, biases force output to exhibit linearly scaled SDN. This is in contrast to the square root scaling of variability with mean force present in any individual motor-unit of the pool. Orderly recruitment by twitch amplitude was a necessary condition for producing linearly scaled SDN. Surprisingly, the scaling of SDN was independent of the variability of motoneuron firing and therefore by inference, independent of presynaptic noise in the motor command. We conclude that the linear scaling of SDN during voluntary isometric contractions is a natural by-product of the organization of the motor-unit pool that does not depend on signal-dependent noise in the motor command. Synaptic noise in the motor command and common drive, which give rise to the variability and synchronization of motoneuron spiking, determine the magnitude of the force variability at a given level of mean force output.
The functional loop linking the frontal lobe and the basal ganglia plays an important role in the control of motor behaviors. To delineate the principal features of motor information processing in the cortico-basal ganglia loop, the present study aimed at investigating how corticostriatal inputs from the primary motor cortex (MI) and the supplementary motor area (SMA) are transposed onto the pallidal complex and the substantia nigra. In macaque monkeys, stimulating electrodes were chronically implanted into identified forelimb representations of the MI and SMA. Subsequently, the distribution of neurons exhibiting orthodromic responses was examined in the caudal putamen to demarcate striatal zones receiving inputs separately or confluently from the MI and SMA. Finally, anterograde double labeling was performed by paired injections of tracers into two of three identified zones: the MI-recipient zone, SMA-recipient zone, and the convergent zone. Data have revealed that inputs from the MI-recipient and SMA-recipient striatal zones were substantially segregated in the pallidal complex and that those from the convergent zone were distributed to fill in blanks made by terminal bands derived from the MI and SMA. On the other hand, striatonigral inputs from the SMA-recipient and convergent zones of the putamen largely overlapped, while the input from the MI-recipient zone was minimal. The present results clearly indicate that the mode to process corticostriatal motor information through the striatopallidal and striatonigral projections is target-dependent, such that the parallel versus convergent rules govern the arrangement of striatopallidal or striatonigral inputs, respectively.
The endogenous pacemaker activity of the suprachiasmatic nuclei (SCN; the master clock in mammals) is regulated by photic information relayed from the retina to the SCN via the retinohypothalamic tract (RHT). Recent work has revealed that glutamate and pituitary adenylate cyclase-activating polypeptide (PACAP) are stored in RHT nerve terminals and function in a coordinated manner to regulate clock timing. To address this interaction on a cellular level, Fura-2 Ca(2+) digital imaging was employed and the effects of PACAP on glutamate evoked Ca(2+) transients in SCN neurons were examined. Pretreatment of SCN neurons with PACAP markedly potentiated Ca(2+) transients elicited by both exogenous glutamate application and synaptically released glutamate. Many neurons became responsive to glutamate only after PACAP administration, suggesting that PACAP sets the lower concentration threshold required for glutamate to initiate a robust rise in postsynaptic cytosolic Ca(2+). Facilitation of glutamate-induced Ca(2+) transients was inhibited by nimodipine, indicating that PACAP potentiates L-type Ca(2+) channel activity. The modulatory actions of PACAP were inhibited by antagonizing signaling via the p42/44 mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) signal transduction cascade. Immunocytochemistry and Western analysis confirmed that PACAP stimulates MAPK activity at doses and time points shown to potentiate Ca(2+) influx. Down-regulation of protein kinase C (PKC) with the phorbol ester 12-O-tetradecanoyl phorbol 13-acetate (TPA) or PKC inhibition with bisindolylmaleimide attenuated the actions of PACAP, indicating that PKC also couples PACAP to potentiation of depolarization-induced Ca(2+) transients. The data presented here identify potentially important mechanisms by which PACAP regulates SCN physiology.
Previous studies on single neurons in primary visual cortex have reported that selectivity for orientation and spatial frequency tuning do not change with stimulus contrast. The prevailing hypothesis is that contrast scales the response magnitude but does not differentially affect particular stimuli. Models where responses are normalized over contrast to maintain constant tuning for parameters such as orientation and spatial frequency have been proposed to explain these results. However, our results indicate that a fundamental property of receptive field organization, spatial summation, is not contrast invariant. We examined the spatial frequency tuning of cells that show contrast-dependent changes in spatial summation and have found that spatial frequency selectivity also depends on stimulus contrast. These results indicate that contrast changes in the spatial frequency tuning curves result from spatial reorganization of the receptive field.
The cellular mechanisms that determine specificity of synaptic connections between mutually connected neurons in the nervous system have not yet been fully examined in vertebrate and invertebrate species. Here we report on a novel form of synaptic interaction during early stages of synapse formation between reciprocally connected Lymnaea neurons. Specifically, using soma-soma synapses between an identified dopaminergic neuron (also known as the giant dopamine cell), right pedal dorsal 1 (RPeD1), and a FMRFamidergic neuron, visceral dorsal 4 (VD4), we demonstrate that although reciprocal inhibitory synapses re-form between the somata after 24-36 h of pairing, VD4 is, however, the first cell to establish synaptic contacts with RPeD1 (within 12-18 h). We show that VD4 &quot;captures&quot; RPeD1 first as a postsynaptic cell by suppressing its transmitter secretory machinery during early stages of cell-cell pairing. The VD4-induced suppression of transmitter release from RPeD1 was transient, and it required transcription and de novo protein synthesis dependent step in VD4 but not in RPeD1. The VD4-induced effects on RPeD1 were mimicked by a FMRFamide-like peptide. Perturbation of FMRFamide-activated metabolites of the arachidonic acid pathway in RPeD1 not only prevented FMRFamide-induced suppression of transmitter release from the giant dopamine cell but also shifted the synaptic balance in favor of RPeD1, thus making it the first cell to begin synaptic transmission with VD4 within 12-18 h. A single RPeD1 that had developed dopamine secretory capabilities overnight and was subsequently paired with VD4 for 12-18 h was, however, immune to VD4-induced suppression of transmitter release. Under these experimental conditions, both cells developed mutual inhibitory synapses concurrently. Taken together, our data provide evidence for novel synaptic interaction between reciprocally connected neurons and underscore the importance of transmitter-receptor interplay in regulating the timing of synapse formation in the nervous system.
The spiny projection neurons are by far the most numerous type of striatal neuron. In addition to being the principal projection neurons of the striatum, the spiny projection neurons also have an extensive network of local axon collaterals by which they make synaptic connections with other striatal projection neurons. However, up to now there has been no direct physiological evidence for functional inhibitory interactions between spiny projection neurons. Here we present new evidence that striatal projection neurons are interconnected by functional inhibitory synapses. To examine the physiological properties of unitary inhibitory postsynaptic potentials (IPSPs), dual intracellular recordings were made from pairs of spiny projection neurons in brain slices of adult rat striatum. Synaptic interactions were found in 9 of 45 pairs of neurons using averages of 200 traces that were triggered by a single presynaptic action potential. In all cases, synaptic interactions were unidirectional, and no bidirectional interactions were detected. Unitary IPSPs evoked by a single presynaptic action potential had a peak amplitude ranging from 157 to 319 microV in different connections (mean: 277 +/- 46 microV, n = 9). The percentage of failures of single action potentials to evoke a unitary IPSP was estimated and ranged from 9 to 63% (mean: 38 +/- 14%, n = 9). Unitary IPSPs were reversibly blocked by bicuculline (n = 4) and had a reversal potential of -62.4 +/- 0.7 mV (n = 5), consistent with GABA-mediated inhibition. The findings of the present study correlate very well with anatomical evidence for local synaptic connectivity between spiny projection neurons and suggest that lateral inhibition plays a significant role in the information processing operations of the striatum.
In the swimming lamprey, a postural control system maintains a definite orientation of the animal's longitudinal axis in relation to the horizon (pitch angle). Operation of this system is based on vestibular reflexes. Important elements of the postural network are the reticulospinal (RS) neurons, which are driven by vestibular input and transmit commands for postural corrections from the brain stem to the spinal cord. Here we describe responses to vestibular stimulation (rotation of the animal in the pitch plane) in RS neurons of intact lampreys. The activity of neurons was recorded from their axons in the spinal cord by chronically implanted arrays of macroelectrodes. From the multielectrode recordings of mass activity, discharges in individual axons were extracted by means of a spike-sorting program, and the axon position in the spinal cord and its conduction velocity were determined. Vestibular stimulation was performed by rotating the animal in steps of 45 degrees throughout 360 degrees or by periodical &quot;trapezoid&quot; tilts between the nose-up and -down positions. Typically, the RS neurons exhibited both dynamic responses (activity during movement) and static responses (activity in a new sustained position). The neurons were classified into two groups according to their pattern of response. Group UP neurons responded preferentially to nose-up rotation with maximal activity at 0-135 degrees up. Group DOWN neurons responded preferentially to nose-down rotation with maximal activity at 0-135 degrees down. Neurons of the two groups also differed in the position of their axons in the spinal cord and axonal conduction velocity. An increase in water temperature, which presumably causes a downward turn in swimming lampreys, affected the activity in the UP and DOWN groups differently, so that the ratio UP responses to DOWN responses increased. We suggest that the UP and DOWN groups mediate the opposing vestibular reflexes and cause the downward and upward turns of the animal, respectively. The lamprey will stabilize the orientation in the pitch plane at which the effects of UP and DOWN groups are equal to each other. In addition to the main test (rotation in the pitch plane), the animals were also tested by rotation in the transverse (roll) plane. It was found that 22% of RS neurons responding to pitch tilts also responded to roll tilts. The overlap between the pitch and roll populations suggests that the RS pathways are partly shared by the pitch and roll control systems.
It is generally accepted that human bipedal upright stance is achieved by feedback mechanisms that generate an appropriate corrective torque based on body-sway motion detected primarily by visual, vestibular, and proprioceptive sensory systems. Because orientation information from the various senses is not always available (eyes closed) or accurate (compliant support surface), the postural control system must somehow adjust to maintain stance in a wide variety of environmental conditions. This is the sensorimotor integration problem that we investigated by evoking anterior-posterior (AP) body sway using pseudorandom rotation of the visual surround and/or support surface (amplitudes 0.5-8 degrees ) in both normal subjects and subjects with severe bilateral vestibular loss (VL). AP rotation of body center-of-mass (COM) was measured in response to six conditions offering different combinations of available sensory information. Stimulus-response data were analyzed using spectral analysis to compute transfer functions and coherence functions over a frequency range from 0.017 to 2.23 Hz. Stimulus-response data were quite linear for any given condition and amplitude. However, overall behavior in normal subjects was nonlinear because gain decreased and phase functions sometimes changed with increasing stimulus amplitude. &quot;Sensory channel reweighting&quot; could account for this nonlinear behavior with subjects showing increasing reliance on vestibular cues as stimulus amplitudes increased. VL subjects could not perform this reweighting, and their stimulus-response behavior remained quite linear. Transfer function curve fits based on a simple feedback control model provided estimates of postural stiffness, damping, and feedback time delay. There were only small changes in these parameters with increasing visual stimulus amplitude. However, stiffness increased as much as 60% with increasing support surface amplitude. To maintain postural stability and avoid resonant behavior, an increase in stiffness should be accompanied by a corresponding increase in damping. Increased damping was achieved primarily by decreasing the apparent time delay of feedback control rather than by changing the damping coefficient (i.e., corrective torque related to body-sway velocity). In normal subjects, stiffness and damping were highly correlated with body mass and moment of inertia, with stiffness always about 1/3 larger than necessary to resist the destabilizing torque due to gravity. The stiffness parameter in some VL subjects was larger compared with normal subjects, suggesting that they may use increased stiffness to help compensate for their loss. Overall results show that the simple act of standing quietly depends on a remarkably complex sensorimotor control system.
Rat lines selectively bred for differences in amygdala excitability, manifested by &quot;fast&quot; or &quot;slow&quot; kindling epileptogenesis, display several comorbid features related to anxiety and learning. To assess the nature of the learning deficits in fast kindling rats, performance was evaluated in several variants of a Morris water-maze test. Regardless of whether the location of the platform was fixed or varied over days (matching-to-place task), the fast rats displayed inferior performance, suggesting both working and reference memory impairments. Furthermore, when the position of the platform was altered after the response was acquired, fast rats were more persistent in emitting the previously acquired response. The poor performance of fast rats was also evident in both cued and uncued tasks, indicating that their disturbed learning was not simply a reflection of a spatial deficit. Moreover, fast rats could be easily distracted by irrelevant cues, suggesting that these animals suffered from an attentional disturbance. Interestingly, when rats received several training trials with the platform elevated, permitting them to develop the concept of facile escape, the performance of fast rats improved greatly. The performance disturbance in fast rats may reflect difficulties in forming a conceptual framework under conditions involving some degree of ambiguity, as well as greater distractibility by irrelevant cues. These various attributes of the fast rats may serve as a potentially useful animal model of disorders characterized by an attention deficit.
Alteration in the intracellular signal transduction pathway in primary afferent neurons may contribute to pain hypersensitivity. We demonstrated that very rapid phosphorylation of extracellular signal-regulated protein kinases (pERK) occurred in DRG neurons that were taking part in the transmission of various noxious signals. The electrical stimulation of Adelta fibers induced pERK primarily in neurons with myelinated fibers. c-Fiber activation by capsaicin injection induced pERK in small neurons with unmyelinated fibers containing vanilloid receptor-1 (VR-1), suggesting that pERK labeling in DRG neurons is modality specific. Electrical stimulation at the c-fiber level with different intensities and frequencies revealed that phosphorylation of ERK is dependent on the frequency. We examined the pERK in the DRG after application of natural noxious stimuli and found a stimulus intensity-dependent increase in labeled cell size and in the number of activated neurons in the c- and Adelta-fiber population. Immunohistochemical double labeling with phosphorylated ERK/VR-1 and pharmacological study demonstrated that noxious heat stimulation induced pERK in primary afferents in a VR-1-dependent manner. Capsaicin injection into the skin also increased pERK labeling significantly in peripheral fibers and terminals in the skin, which was prevented by a mitogen-activated protein kinase/ERK kinase inhibitor, 1,4-diamino-2,3-dicyano-1,4-bis(2-aminopheylthio)butadiene (U0126). Behavioral experiments showed that U0126 dose-dependently attenuated thermal hyperalgesia after capsaicin injection and suggested that the activation of ERK pathways in primary afferent neurons is involved in the sensitization of primary afferent neurons. Thus, pERK in primary afferents by noxious stimulation in vivo showed distinct characteristics of expression and may be correlated with the functional activity of primary afferent neurons.
Substance P receptor [neurokinin 1 (NK1] antagonists (SPAs) represent a novel mechanistic approach to antidepressant therapy with comparable clinical efficacy to selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs). Because SSRIs are thought to exert their therapeutic effects by enhancing central serotonergic function, we have examined whether SPAs regulate neuronal activity in the dorsal raphe nucleus (DRN), the main source of serotonergic projections to the forebrain. Using in vivo electrophysiological techniques in the guinea pig, we found that administration of the highly selective NK1 receptor antagonist 1-(5-[[(2R,3S)-2-([(1R)-1-[3,5-bis(trifluoromethyl)phenyl]ethyl]oxy)-3-(4-phenyl)morpholin-4-yl]methyl]-2H-1,2,3-triazol-4-yl)-N,N-dimethylmethanamine (L-760735) caused an increase in DRN neuronal firing rate. However, unlike chronic treatment with fluoxetine, there was no detectable 5-HT1A autoreceptor desensitization. In vitro electrophysiological investigation showed that these effects were not mediated by a direct action in the DRN, an observation supported by immunocytochemical analysis that identified the lateral habenula (LHb) as a more likely site of action. Subsequently, we found that local application of L-760735 into the LHb increased firing in the DRN, which, together with our data showing that L-760735 increased metabolic activity in the cingulate cortex, amygdala, LHb, and DRN, indicates that the effects of L-760735 may be mediated by disinhibition of forebrain structures acting via a habenulo raphe projection. These findings support other evidence for an antidepressant profile of SPAs and suggest that regulation of DRN neuronal activity may contribute to their antidepressant mechanism of action but in a manner that is distinct from monoamine reuptake inhibitors.
Children with brain malformations often exhibit an intractable form of epilepsy. Although alterations in cellular physiology and abnormal histology associated with brain malformations has been studied extensively, synaptic function in malformed brain regions remains poorly understood. We used an animal model, rats exposed to methylazoxymethanol (MAM) in utero, featuring loss of lamination and distinct nodular heterotopia to examine inhibitory synaptic function in the malformed brain. Previous in vitro and in vivo studies demonstrated an enhanced susceptibility to seizure activity and neuronal hyperexcitability in these animals. Here we demonstrate that inhibitory synaptic function is enhanced in rats exposed to MAM in utero. Using in vitro hippocampal slices and whole-cell voltage-clamp recordings from visualized neurons, we observed a dramatic prolongation of GABAergic IPSCs onto heterotopic neurons. Spontaneous IPSC decay time constants were increased by 195% and evoked IPSC decay time constants by 220% compared with age-matched control CA1 pyramidal cells; no change in IPSC amplitude or rise time was observed. GABA transport inhibitors (tiagabine and NO-711) prolonged evoked IPSC decay kinetics of control CA1 pyramidal cells (or normotopic cells) but had no effect on heterotopic neurons. Immunohistochemical staining for GABA transporters (GAT-1 and GAT-3) revealed a low level of expression in heterotopic cell regions, suggesting a reduced ability for GABA reuptake at these synapses. Together, our data demonstrate that GABA-mediated synaptic function at heterotopic synapses is altered and suggests that inhibitory systems are enhanced in the malformed brain.
Progenitor cells in the early developing nervous system can divide symmetrically, giving rise to two daughter cells that divide again, or asymmetrically, giving rise to one cell that differentiates and one that divides again. It has been suggested that the orientation of the cell cleavage plane during mitosis determines the type of division. A marker of early cell differentiation, the RA4 antigen, was used to identify regions of the developing chick retina with and without differentiating cells, and the orientation of the cleavage plane was characterized for mitotic figures in each region. No difference was found in the frequency of any orientation between the regions with or without differentiating cells. Furthermore, in the region of the retina with differentiating cells, the RA4 antigen was present in mitotic figures with every possible orientation. Thus, the orientation of the cleavage plane appears to be unrelated to whether or not a division produces a cell that differentiates. It has also been suggested that the intracellular protein Numb mediates neurogenesis via asymmetric localization during cell division. Numb localization was compared with expression of markers of early cell differentiation, the RA4 antigen and Delta. Differentiating and nondifferentiating cells were found both with and without Numb expression. Cells with a cleavage plane parallel to the retinal surface were polarized, such that Numb and/or the RA4 antigen, when present, were only in the daughter cell farthest from the ventricle. These findings indicate a need to reconsider current hypotheses regarding the key features underlying symmetric and asymmetric divisions in the developing nervous system.
The 16 kDa pancreatitis-associated protein Reg-2 has recently been shown to facilitate the regeneration of motor and sensory neurons after peripheral nerve injury in the adult rat. Reg-2 has also been shown to be a neurotrophic factor that is an essential intermediate in the pathways through which CNTF supports the survival of motor neurons during development. Here we report the dynamic expression of Reg-2 in rat sensory neurons after peripheral nerve injury. Reg-2 is normally not expressed by dorsal root ganglion (DRG) cells, but we show, using immunocytochemistry, that Reg-2 is rapidly upregulated in DRG cells after sciatic nerve transection and after 24 hr recovery is expressed almost exclusively in small-diameter neurons that bind the lectin Griffonia simplicifolia IB4 and express the purinoceptor P2X3. However, by 7 d after axotomy, Reg-2 is expressed in medium to large neurons and coexists partly with the neuropeptides galanin and neuropeptide Y, which are also upregulated after peripheral nerve transection. At this time point, Reg-2 is no longer expressed in small neurons, and there is no colocalization with IB4 binding neurons, demonstrating a shift in Reg-2 expression from one subset of DRG neurons to another. We also show by double labeling for activating transcription factor 3, a transcription factor that is upregulated after nerve injury, that Reg-2 expression occurs predominantly in axotomized DRG cells but that a small percentage of uninjured DRG cells also upregulate Reg-2. The selective expression within IB4/P2X3 cells, and the dynamic shift from small to large cells, is unique among DRG peptides and suggests that Reg-2 has a distinctive role in the injury response.
Acute intrahippocampal infusion of brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) leads to long-term potentiation (BDNF-LTP) of synaptic transmission at medial perforant path--&gt;granule cell synapses in the rat dentate gyrus. Endogenous BDNF is implicated in the maintenance of high-frequency stimulation-induced LTP (HFS-LTP). However, the relationship between exogenous BDNF-LTP and HFS-LTP is unclear. First, we found that BDNF-LTP, like HFS-LTP, is associated with enhancement in both synaptic strength and granule cell excitability (EPSP-spike coupling). Second, treatment with a competitive NMDA receptor (NMDAR) antagonist blocked HFS-LTP but had no effect on the development or magnitude of BDNF-LTP. Thus, NMDAR activation is not required for the induction or expression of BDNF-LTP. Formation of stable, late phase HFS-LTP requires mRNA synthesis and is coupled to upregulation of the immediate early gene activity-regulated cytoskeleton-associated protein (Arc). Local infusion of the transcription inhibitor actinomycin D (ACD) 1 hr before or immediately before BDNF infusion inhibited BDNF-LTP and upregulation of Arc protein expression. ACD applied 2 hr after BDNF infusion had no effect, defining a critical time window of transcription-dependent synaptic strengthening. Finally, the functional role of BDNF-LTP was assessed in occlusion experiments with HFS-LTP. HFS-LTP was induced, and BDNF was infused at time points corresponding to early phase (1 hr) or late phase (4 hr) HFS-LTP. BDNF applied during the early phase led to normal BDNF-LTP. In contrast, BDNF-LTP was completely occluded during the late phase. The results strongly support a role for BDNF in triggering transcription-dependent, late phase LTP in the intact adult brain.
In addition to its role as a CNS neurotransmitter, glutamate has been shown recently to be an important component of the peripheral inflammation response. We demonstrated previously that the group I metabotropic glutamate receptors (mGluRs) mGlu1 and mGlu5 are expressed in the peripheral terminals of sensory neurons and that activation of group I mGluRs in the skin increases thermal sensitivity. In the present study, we provide evidence suggesting that group I mGluRs increase thermal sensitivity by enhancing vanilloid (capsaicin) receptor function. We show that mGlu5 potentiates capsaicin responses in mouse sensory neurons by the phospholipase C pathway but not by activation of protein kinase C. Rather, the effects are mediated by the metabolism of diacylglycerol and the production of prostaglandins via the cyclooxygenase pathway, leading to activation of the cAMP-dependent protein kinase subsequent to prostanoid receptor activation. Behavioral thermal sensitization in mice induced by intraplantar injection of mGlu1/5 agonists was also blocked by inhibitors of protein kinase A and cyclooxygenase, suggesting that a similar signaling pathway operates in vivo. These results demonstrate a novel signaling pathway in sensory neurons and provide a plausible mechanism for the enhancement of thermal sensitivity that occurs with inflammation and after activation of mGluRs on peripheral sensory neuron terminals.
Myelination of axons in the CNS by oligodendrocytes is a process critical to rapid and efficient impulse conduction. A new role for the myelin proteolipid protein (PLP), the most abundant protein of CNS myelin, has been identified, in studies showing PLP interaction with signaling proteins in oligodendrocytes. In particular, these studies suggest that the PLP protein may be involved in signaling through integrins in oligodendrocytes. Stimulation of muscarinic acetylcholine receptors on oligodendrocytes induced formation of a tripartite complex containing PLP, calreticulin, and alpha(v)-integrin. PLP interacted directly with the cytoplasmic domain of the alpha(v)-integrin. Complex formation was mediated by phospholipase C and Ca2+ binding to the high affinity binding site on calreticulin. This complex appears important for binding of fibronectin to oligodendrocytes. These data establish a novel function for PLP as a part of the integrin signaling complex in oligodendrocytes and suggest that neurotransmitter-mediated integrin receptor signaling may be involved in myelinogenesis.
Tg2576 mice overexpress a mutant form of human amyloid precursor protein with the Swedish mutation (APP(Sw)), resulting in high beta-amyloid (Abeta) levels in the brain. Despite this, amyloid plaques do not develop until 12 months of age, and there is no neuronal loss in mice as old as 16 months. Gene expression profiles in the hippocampus and cerebellum of 6-month-old APP(Sw) mice were compared with age-matched controls. The expression of transthyretin, a protein shown to sequester Abeta and prevent amyloid fibril formation in vitro, and several genes in the insulin-signaling pathway, e.g., insulin-like growth factor-2, were increased selectively in the hippocampus of APP(Sw) mice. Concomitant activation of the insulin-like growth factor-1 receptor, Akt, and extracellular signal-regulated protein kinase 1 and 2 as well as increased phosphorylation of Bad also were unique to the hippocampus of APP(Sw) mice. In addition, the increased expression of transthyretin and insulin-like growth factor-2 and the increased phosphorylation of Bad in hippocampal neurons were maintained in 12-month-old APP(Sw) mice when compared with age-matched controls. These results suggest that the slow progression and lack of full-fledged Alzheimer's disease pathology in the hippocampal neurons of APP(Sw) mice result from the genetic reprogramming of neural cells to cope with increased levels of Abeta.
Mints/X11s are neuron-specific (Mints 1 and 2) and ubiquitous (Mint 3) adaptor proteins composed of isoform-specific N-terminal sequences and common C-terminal phosphotyrosine-binding (PTB) and PDZ domains. We now show that all three Mints bind to the cytoplasmic tail of amyloid-beta precursor protein (APP) and presenilins and strongly increase the levels of cellular APP in transfected cells. Immunocytochemistry revealed that in neurons, Mints 1 and 2 were colocalized with APP in the trans-Golgi network, with lower levels throughout the cell body and neurites. Using an APP-dependent transactivation assay that uses a fusion protein of APP coupled to the potent transcription factor Gal4/VP16, we examined the effects of Mints on the proteolytic processing and putative transcriptional function of APP. Although all Mints were biochemically similar, only Mints 1 and 2 but not Mint 3 strongly inhibited transactivation by APP-Gal4/VP16. Inhibition was enhanced by a mutation of the first PDZ domain and by deletion of the PDZ domains or the N-terminal sequences but abolished by inactivation of the PTB- and PDZ domains. Mint 1 also inhibited transactivation by the &quot;precleaved&quot; cytoplasmic tail of APP fused to Gal4/VP16, whereas Fe65 (which binds to APP as strongly as Mints) enhanced transactivation. Our data suggest that Mints 1 and 2 but not Mint 3 have a specific effect on APP function that cannot be explained simply by their interaction with presenilins and occurs at least partly after cleavage of APP. In view of their biochemical similarity, the functional differences among Mints are unexpected, suggesting that Mints 1 and 2 have a brain-specific function related to APP that is not executed by the ubiquitous Mint 3.
Visinin-like protein-1 (VILIP-1) belongs to the family of neuronal calcium sensor (NCS) proteins, a neuronal subfamily of EF-hand [corrected] calcium-binding proteins that are myristoylated at their N termini. NCS proteins are discussed to play roles in calcium-dependent signal transduction of physiological and pathological processes in the CNS. The calcium-dependent membrane association, the so-called calcium-myristoyl switch, localizes NCS proteins to a distinct cellular signaling compartment and thus may be a critical mechanism for the coordinated regulation of signaling cascades. To study whether the biochemically defined calcium-myristoyl switch of NCS proteins can occur in living neuronal cells, the reversible and stimulus-dependent translocation of green fluorescent protein (GFP)-tagged VILIP-1 to subcellular targets was examined by fluorescence microscopy in transfected cell lines and hippocampal primary neurons. In transiently transfected NG108-15 and COS-7 cells, a translocation of diffusely distributed VILIP-1-GFP but not of myristoylation-deficient VILIP-1-GFP to the plasma membrane and to intracellular targets, such as Golgi membranes, occurred after raising the intracellular calcium concentration with a calcium ionophore. The observed calcium-dependent localization was completely reversed after depletion of intracellular calcium by EGTA. Interestingly, a fast and reversible translocation of VILIP-1-GFP and translocation of endogenous VILIP-1 to specialized membrane structures was also observed after a depolarizing stimulus or activation of glutamate receptors in hippocampal neurons. These results show for the first time the reversibility and stimulus-dependent occurrence of the calcium-myristoyl switch in living neurons, suggesting a physiological role as a signaling mechanism of NCS proteins, enabling them to activate specific targets localized in distinct membrane compartments.
Metabolite levels in cerebrospinal fluid from patients with lower back pain and/or sciatica caused by disc herniation or spinal stenosis were compared with levels in pain-free controls using proton magnetic resonance spectroscopy. Significant differences for several metabolites were found in patients with pain compared with controls. Most changes were found in the group with disc herniation, including reductions in glucose, alanine, and lactate, suggesting increased aerobic metabolism in this group. There was a significant reduction in the level of glucose in the group with spinal stenosis irrespective of whether the patients were compared with the whole control group (age-weighted) or with age-matched controls. Additionally, inositol and creatinine were reduced in patients with disc herniation. Inositol was also significantly reduced in the spinal stenosis group when age matched to controls. Insofar as the levels of pain recorded by the patients with lumbar pathology were similar in the two groups, it seems more likely that the reductions in metabolite levels recorded in the group with disc herniations are related to disc pathology rather than the perception of pain. However, the possibility that pain perception contributes to the metabolic changes cannot be excluded.
The role of endogenous GM1 ganglioside in neurite outgrowth has been studied in N18 and NG108-15 neuroblastoma cells with the GM1-specific ligand cholera toxin B subunit (Ctx B), which stimulates Ca(2+) influx together with neuritogenesis. Our primary goal has been to identify the nature of the calcium channel that is modulated by GM1. An L-type voltage-operated Ca(2+) channel (VOCC) was previously proposed as the mediator of this phenomenon. This investigation, employing fura-2 fluorescent measurements and specific channel blockers and other agents, revealed that GM1 modulates a hitherto unidentified Ca(2+) channel not of the L type. It was opened by Ctx B; was permeable to Ca(2+) and Ba(2+) but not Mn(2+); and was blocked by Ni(2+), Cd(2+), and La(3+). Although most dihydropyridines inhibited Ctx B-induced Ca(2+) influx as well as neurite outgrowth at higher concentrations, they and other VOCC blockers at normally employed concentrations failed to do so, suggesting uninvolvement of VOCC. In addition, Ca(2+) influx induced by Ctx B was not mediated by cGMP-dependent or G-protein-coupled nonselective cation channels, as demonstrated by the cGMP antagonist Rp-cGMPS or the G-protein/receptor uncoupling agent suramin, respectively. Finally, Ca(2+) influx was unlikely to be due to inhibition or reversal of Na(+)-Ca(2+) exchanger via Ctx B induction of Na(+) uptake, insofar as no effect was seen on blocking Na(+) channels, inhibiting Na(+)-K(+)-ATPase, or eliminating extracellular Na(+). The results suggest that this novel channel is gated by interaction with GM1, which, when associated with the channel and bound by appropriate ligand, promotes Ca(2+) influx. This in turn induces signaling for the onset of neuritogenesis.
The brain is a heterogeneous tissue in which the numbers of neurons, glia, and other cell types vary among anatomic regions. Gene expression studies performed on brain homogenates yield results reflecting mRNA abundance in a mixture of cell types. Therefore, a method for quantifying gene expression in individual cell populations would be useful. Laser capture microdissection (LCM) is a new technique for obtaining pure populations of cells from heterogeneous tissues. Most studies thus far have used LCM to detect DNA sequences. We developed a method to quantify gene expression in hippocampal neurons from mouse brain using LCM and real-time reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR). This method was optimized to permit histochemical or immunocytochemical visualization of nerve cells during LCM while minimizing RNA degradation. As an example, gene expression was quantified in hippocampal neurons from the Tg2576 mouse model for Alzheimer's disease.
The authors report the case of an 11-year-old boy with a malignant meningioma of the right frontal meninges. The tumor was asymptomatic, despite visible exophytic extracranial growth. Neuroimaging demonstrated an en plaque meningioma bulging into the brain. Six months after the tumor had been totally removed by surgery, an isolated subcutaneous metastasis developed at the right preauricular area of the scalp, originating at the scar left by the first surgery. After removal of this metastasis, radiotherapy was conducted. To date the follow-up examinations have not revealed any additional metastases. To the best of the authors' knowledge, this is the first report of a seeding of a subcutaneous metastasis in a child with a malignant meningioma. The authors review the literature with reference to malignant meningiomas and their formation of metastasis. In cases of malignant meningiomas, piecemeal tumor removal carries the risk of iatrogenic cell dissemination even when precautions are taken.

The purpose of this study was to investigate the relationship between cerebral blood flow (CBF) and nitric oxide (NO) synthesis using a rat model of transient forebrain ischemia of varying severity. Forebrain ischemia was induced for 30 min by occlusion of the bilateral common carotid arteries without hemorrhagic hypotension. The production of NO end-products (nitrite and nitrate) was measured by in vivo microdialysis, and CBF by the hydrogen clearance technique. Ischemia induced NO synthesis, although the increase in the quantity of NO end-products was not remarkable during the ischemic period but became prominent after reperfusion. Such increases were abolished by Nomega-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester (L-NAME), although 7-nitroindazole (7-NI) appeared to have only slight effects. The production of NO end-products during ischemia increased when the CBF during ischemia was less than 60 mL/100 g/min. In animals in which the CBF during ischemia was higher than 22.7 mL/100 g/min, the production of NO end-products increased gradually after the induction of ischemia and reached a peak during the reperfusion period, whereas in other animals in which the CBF during ischemia fell below 22.7 mL/100 g/min, the NO end-products decreased during ischemia and increased transiently after reperfusion. These results suggest that the increase in NO end-products is NO synthase (NOS)-dependent and that most of the increase is derived from endothelial NOS. It is also suggested that NO synthesis during ischemia is closely related to CBF, and that severe CBF reduction may inhibit NO synthesis.
Free radical-mediated mechanisms of cellular damage have been implicated in the early stages of spinal cord injury (SCI). Manganese superoxide dismutase (MnSOD) is a potent scavenger of superoxide radicals and likely serves an important cytoprotective role in preventing cellular damage after SCI. We have evaluated the expression of MnSOD to address its role during the early events of SCI using a well-established rat contusion model. Northern analysis showed a rapid induction of MnSOD mRNA between 2 and 6 h post injury. Observed time-dependent increases in MnSOD message was maximal 6 h post injury over that of MnSOD mRNA levels induced by laminectomy alone. Immunoblot and immunohistochemical analysis demonstrated increased expression of MnSOD protein 24 h after SCI with localization primarily within neurons. Interestingly, laminectomy alone also caused an induction of MnSOD gene and protein expression. To evaluate one potential mechanism of MnSOD induction, we microinjected the naive spinal cord with IL-1beta, which caused a similar fold induction of MnSOD mRNA levels by 6 h as observed with SCI, thus implicating it as a potential inducer of MnSOD during SCI. In summary, these results demonstrate that this potent cytoprotective antioxidant enzyme is rapidly and significantly induced as a consequence of SCI.
Intercellular adhesion molecule-1 (ICAM-1) is an endothelial protein that facilitates invasion of leukocytes into the CNS in response to injury or inflammation. ICAM-1 expression correlates with the severity of clinical head injuries, but its importance in secondary injury events is not fully understood. Therefore, we evaluated ICAM-1 expression and the effect of anti-ICAM-1 treatment on motor recovery and neutrophil invasion after traumatic brain injury induced via the lateral fluid-percussion method in the rat. ICAM-1 was expressed in large and small blood vessels within the injured cortex at 10 and 24 h after injury. Repeated administration of anti-ICAM-1 antibody (clone 1A29) at 1, 10, and again at 24 h after injury significantly improved performance in two of three motor tests, compared to saline controls. Equal doses of nonspecific control antibody (IgG) also significantly improved motor test scores, compared to saline controls. Cortical myeloperoxidase activity, an indicator of neutrophil invasion, was significantly reduced 26 h after injury in animals treated with anti-ICAM-1. Animals treated with IgG showed a trend toward reduction that did not reach significance. These data suggest that ICAM-1 may be involved in neutrophil invasion and neurological dysfunction after TBI, but also implicate a role for a nonspecific antibody effect in improved functional outcome.
Opioids are commonly used for pain relief clinically and reduce hyperalgesia in most animal models. Two injections of acidic saline into one gastrocnemius muscle 5 days apart produce a long-lasting bilateral hyperalgesia without associated tissue damage. The current study was undertaken to assess the effects of opioid agonists on mechanical hyperalgesia induced by repeated intramuscular injections of acid. Morphine (mu-agonist), [D-Ala(2),N-Me-Phe(4),Gly-ol(5)]-enkephalin (mu-agonist; DAMGO), 4-[((alpha)R)-alpha-((2S,5R)-4-allyl-2,5-dimethyl-1-piperazinyl)-3-methoxybenzyl]-N,N-diethylbenzamide (delta-agonist; SNC80), or (1S-trans)-3,4-dichloro-N-methyl-N-[2-(1-pyrrolidinyl)cylcohexyl]-benzeneacetamide hydrochloride (kappa-agonist; U50,488) were administered intrathecally to activate opioid receptors once hyperalgesia was developed. Mechanical hyperalgesia was assessed by measuring the withdrawal thresholds to mechanical stimuli (von Frey filaments) before the first and second intramuscular injection, 24 h after the second intramuscular injection, and for 1 h after administration of the opioid agonist or vehicle. Morphine, DAMGO, and SNC80 dose dependently increased the mechanical withdrawal threshold back toward baseline responses. The reduction in hyperalgesia produced by morphine and DAMGO was prevented by H-D-Phe-Cys-Tyr-D-Trp-Arg-Thr-Pen-Thr-NH(2) (CTAP) and that of SNC80 was prevented by naltrindole. U50,488 had no effect on the decreased mechanical withdrawal thresholds. Thus, activation of mu- and delta-, but not kappa-, opioid receptors in the spinal cord reduces mechanical hyperalgesia following repeated intramuscular injection of acid, thus validating the use of this new model of chronic muscle pain.
YM992 [(S)-2-[[(7-fluoro-4-indanyl)oxy]methyl]morpholine monohydrochloride] is a selective serotonin (5-hydroxytryptamine; 5-HT) reuptake inhibitor (SSRI) and a potent 5-HT(2A) antagonist. The aim of the present study was to assess, using in vivo extracellular unitary recordings, the effect of acute and sustained administration of YM992 (40 mg kg(-1) day(-1) s.c., using osmotic minipumps) on the spontaneous firing activity of locus coeruleus (LC) norepinephrine (NE) neurons. Acute intravenous injection of YM992 (4 mg kg(-1)) significantly decreased NE neuron firing activity by 29% and blocked the inhibitory effect of a subsequent injection of the 5-HT(2) agonist DOI [1-(2,5-dimethoxy-4-iodophenyl)-2-aminopropane hydrochloride]. A 2-day treatment with YM992 decreased the firing rate of NE neurons by 66%, whereas a partial recovery was observed after a 7-day treatment and a complete one after a 21-day treatment. Following the injection of the alpha(2)-adrenoceptor antagonist idazoxan (1 mg kg(-1) i.v.), NE neuron firing was equalized in controls and 2-day YM992-treated rats. This put into evidence an increased degree of activation of alpha(2)-adrenergic autoreceptors in the treated rats. The suppressant effect of the alpha(2)-adrenoceptor agonist clonidine was significantly decreased in long-term YM992-treated rats. The recovery of LC firing activity after long-term YM992 administration could thus be explained by a decreased sensitivity of alpha(2)-adrenergic autoreceptors. Sustained SSRI administration leads to a gradual reduction of the firing activity of NE neurons during long-term administration, whereas YM992 produced opposite effects. The exact basis for the increased synaptic availability of NE by YM992 remains to be elucidated. This NE activity, resulting from 5-HT reuptake inhibition plus 5-HT(2A) receptor antagonism, might confer additional benefits in affective and anxiety disorders.
The electrophysiological and pharmacological properties of nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (nAChRs) were studied in guinea pig small intestinal myenteric neurons maintained in culture or in acutely isolated preparations. Acetylcholine and nicotine caused inward currents that desensitized in approximately 4 s. The current-voltage (I-V) relationship rectified inwardly with a reversal potential near 0 mV. The agonist rank order potency was 1,1-dimethyl-4-phenyl-piperazinium &gt; acetylcholine = nicotine &gt; cytisine. Agonist-induced currents were blocked by nAChR antagonists with a rank order potency of mecamylamine &gt; hexamethonium &gt; dihydro-beta-erythroidine (DHbetaE); mecamylamine and DHbetaE exhibit high potency at beta4 and beta2 subunit-containing nAChRs, respectively. alpha-Bungarotoxin (0.1 microM) or alpha-methyllycaconitine (0.1 microM), antagonists that block nAChRs containing alpha7 subunits, did not affect acetylcholine-induced responses. Immunohistochemical studies revealed that nearly every neuron in culture was labeled by an antibody (mAb35) that recognizes nAChR alpha3 and alpha5 subunits. Antibodies selective for alpha3, alpha5, or beta2 subunits also stained most neurons, whereas an alpha7 subunit antibody revealed very few neurons. In neurons in the intact myenteric plexus from newborn and adult guinea pigs, local application of acetylcholine (1 mM) and cytisine (1 mM) caused similar amplitude depolarizations, and these responses were blocked by nAChR antagonists with a rank order potency of mecamylamine &gt; hexamethonium &gt; DHbetaE. These data indicate that myenteric neurons maintained in culture predominantly express nAChRs composed of alpha3, alpha5, beta2, and beta4 subunits. These subunits may be in a homogeneous population of receptors with unique pharmacological properties, or multiple receptors of different subunit composition may be expressed by individual neurons.
Glucagon-like peptide-1 (7-36)-amide (GLP-1) is an endogenous insulinotropic peptide that is secreted from the L cells of the gastrointestinal tract in response to food. It has potent effects on glucose-dependent insulin secretion, insulin gene expression, and pancreatic islet cell formation. In type 2 diabetes, GLP-1, by continuous infusion, can normalize blood glucose and is presently being tested in clinical trials as a therapy for this disease. More recently, GLP-1 has been found to have central nervous system (CNS) effects and to stimulate neurite outgrowth in cultured cells. We now report that GLP-1, and its longer-acting analog exendin-4, can completely protect cultured rat hippocampal neurons against glutamate-induced apoptosis. Extrapolating these effects to a well defined rodent model of neurodegeneration, GLP-1 and exendin-4 greatly reduced ibotenic acid-induced depletion of choline acetyltransferase immunoreactivity in basal forebrain cholinergic neurons. These findings identify a novel neuroprotective/neurotrophic function of GLP-1 and suggest that such peptides may have potential for halting or reversing neurodegenerative processes in CNS disorders, such as Alzheimer's disease, and in neuropathies associated with type 2 diabetes mellitus.
Findings that increased neuromuscular activity significantly reduced sprouting in partially denervated muscles prompted this present study to determine if the converse is true, namely that reduced activity promotes sprouting and motor unit (MU) enlargement. Partial denervation of rat hindlimb muscles by either the L4 or L5 spinal root avulsion resulted in extensive denervation (&gt; 80 %) in tibialis anterior (TA) and medial gastrocnemius (MG) muscles, and moderate denervation (~50 %) in soleus (SOL) and plantaris (PL) muscles. The partially denervated muscles were then subjected to a 4 week programme of normal caged activity or TTX-induced neuromuscular inactivity. At 1 month, measurement of MU enlargement and quantification of sprouting were evaluated, respectively, by electrophysiological and histochemical means. Analysis of electrophysiological data showed that MU forces were significantly increased in both extensively and moderately denervated muscles 1 month after partial denervation and normal cage activity and that neuromuscular activity blockade by TTX completely abolished the MU enlargement in these partially denervated muscles. Histochemical analysis of sprouting revealed that the number of sprouts was significantly increased after partial denervation and normal cage activity, particularly after extensive denervation. TTX-induced neuromuscular inactivity dramatically reduced the number of sprouts and increased the number of free endplates in the extensively but not the moderately denervated muscles. These data demonstrate that a reduction in neuromuscular activity mediated by presynaptic blockade of neural action potentials reduces MU enlargement in partially denervated muscles by reducing axonal sprouting.
Gamma frequencies of burst discharge (&gt;40 Hz) have become recognized in select cortical and non-cortical regions as being important in feature extraction, neural synchrony and oscillatory discharge. Pyramidal cells of the electrosensory lateral line lobe (ELL) of Apteronotus leptorhynchus generate burst discharge in relation to specific features of sensory input in vivo that resemble those recognized as gamma frequency discharge when examined in vitro. We have shown that these bursts are generated by an entirely novel mechanism termed conditional backpropagation that involves an intermittent failure of dendritic Na+ spike conduction. Conditional backpropagation arises from a frequency-dependent broadening of dendritic spikes during repetitive discharge, and a mismatch between the refractory periods of somatic and dendritic spikes. A high threshold class of K+ channel, AptKv3.3, is expressed at high levels and distributed over the entire soma-dendritic axis of pyramidal cells. AptKv3.3 channels are shown to contribute to the repolarization of both somatic and dendritic spikes, with pharmacological blockade of dendritic Kv3 channels revealing an important role in controlling the threshold for burst discharge. The entire process of conditional back-propagation and burst output is successfully simulated using a new compartmental model of pyramidal cells that incorporates a cumulative inactivation of dendritic K+ channels during repetitive discharge. This work is important in demonstrating how the success of spike backpropagation can control the output of a principle sensory neuron, and how this process is regulated by the distribution and properties of voltage-dependent K+ channels.
Weakly electric &quot;wave&quot; fish make highly regular electric organ discharges (EODs) for precise electrolocation. Yet, they modulate the ongoing rhythmicity of their EOD during social interactions. These modulations may last from a few milliseconds to tens of minutes. In this paper we describe the different types of EOD modulations, what they may signal to recipient fish, and how they are generated on a neural level. Our main conclusions, based on a species called the brown ghost (Apteronotus leptorhynchus) are that fish: (1) show sexual dimorphism in the signals that they generate; (2) make different signals depending on Whether they are interacting with a fish of the opposite sex or, within their own sex, to a fish of that which is dominant or subordinate to it; (3) are able to assess relative dominance from electrical cues; (4) have a type of plasticity in the pacemaker nucleus, the control center for the EOD, that occurs after stimulation of NMDA receptors that causes a long-lasting (tens of minutes to hours) change in EOD frequency; (5) that this NMDA receptor-dependent change may occur in reflexive responses, like the jamming avoidance response (JAR), as well as after certain long-lasting social signals. We propose that NMDA-receptor dependent increases in EOD frequency during the JAR adaptively shift the EOD frequency to a new value to avoid jamming by another fish and that such increases in EOD frequency during social encounters may be advantageous since social dominance seems to be positively correlated with EOD frequency in both sexes.
Pathological, genetic and epidemiological studies support the opinion that inflammatory mechanisms are involved in the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease (AD). Recent pathological and neuroradiological (PET) data show that activation of microglia is an early pathogenic event that precedes the process of severe neuropil destruction in AD brains. In this paper we review the evidence that inflammatory mediators can play a pathogenic role in some behavioural disorders frequently encountered during the clinical course in AD patients. Motivational disturbances are the most striking of the depressive symptoms in AD and can be present in a preclinical stage of the disease. Experimental animal studies and clinical trials in humans have shown that cytokines can induce similar symptoms which were described as 'sickness behaviour' or 'depressive-like' state. Delirious states are frequently observed in more advanced stages of dementia. Delirium is generally considered the result of an imbalance in neurotransmitter systems with severe deficits of the cholinergic systems. Animal studies show that pro-inflammatory cytokines, such as interleukin-1, induce a reduced activity of the cholinergic system. In AD, the release of cytokines would exacerbate any already existing disturbances in the cholinergic neurotransmission. This could explain the susceptibility of demented patients to delirium provoked by a wide variety of trivial incidents that are accompanied by an acute phase response. The data reviewed in this paper suggest that it could be worthwhile employing a neuroimmunological approach to study at molecular level the pathogenesis of a broad spectrum of behavioural disturbances common in the clinical course of AD patients.
Corticosteroid modulation of serotonergic function may play a central role in mood disorders. 8-hydroxy-2-(di-n-propylamino) tetralin (8-OH-DPAT) produces a hypothermia in mice that serves as an in-vivo model of somatodendritic 5-HT1A autoreceptor function. Daily injections (s.c.) of 50 mg/kg of corticosterone (CORT) for 3 days attenuates 8-OH-DPAT hypothermia tested 24 h later. This study sought to further clarify the nature of the CORT-mediated attenuation of somatodendritic 5-HT1A receptor function. Mice underwent various CORT manipulations prior to an 8-OH-DPAT challenge. Neither 14-day bilateral adrenalectomy (ADX), nor CORT 50 mg/kg/day, administered continuously by osmotic minipump over 72 h had any effect on the 8-OH-DPAT hypothermic response. In contrast, daily injections of CORT over three consecutive days caused a significant attenuation in 8-OH-DPAT hypothermia when tested 24 h later. However, administration of an additional dose of CORT 2 h prior to the 8-OH-DPAT challenge occluded this CORT-mediated attenuation in a dose-dependent fashion. The findings demonstrate that CORT modulates somatodendritic 5-HT1A receptor function in a complex manner. Attenuation is seen only after intermittent administration of CORT. In addition, the degree of attenuation depends on CORT concentrations at the time of testing. These findings may have implications regarding mechanisms of adaptation to stress.
The effects of glucose administration and emotionality of target material on heart rate and memory were examined in a double-blind, placebo-controlled, balanced crossover study. Memory for neutral and emotional words was tested in 20 young adults following a glucose drink and a placebo. Heart rate and blood glucose were also measured. Emotional words were recalled and recognized better than neutral words in both drink conditions but there was no direct effect of drink type on memory. During the neutral word memory tasks, similar heart rate deceleration was observed in both drink conditions. However, during the processing of emotional material, heart rates were lowered in the placebo condition and relatively increased in the glucose condition. These results further differentiate the physiological responses involved during memory for affective and neutral material.
Satisfaction with life as a whole and with 10 domains of life was assessed in a nationally representative Swedish sample of 1207 women and 1326 men aged between 18 and 64 years, using a generic self-report checklist (LiSat-11), with levels of satisfaction ranging along a six-grade ordinal scale from 1 (very dissatisfied) to 6 (very satisfied). The main findings are that, with marginal exceptions, life satisfaction is gender independent, while age is systematically and positively associated with vocational and financial situations. Having no partner and being a first-generation immigrant implies for most LiSat-11 items a relatively low level of satisfaction. Factor analysis of the domain-specific items yields a gender-independent four-factor structure, which is robustly independent of different scaling reductions. Gross levels of satisfaction (dichotomized scales 1-4 vs 5-6) of seven domains were significant classifiers (odds ratio 1.7-3.9) of gross level of satisfaction with life as a whole. This investigation provides reference values for LiSat-11, which, with its ease of administration may be an adequate instrument for analysing, in terms of subjects' cognitive appraisal of emotions, aspirations-achievement gaps.
The retina employs two main synaptic relays in which information converges to higher order cells, and at the same time is modified by lateral inhibitory interneurons. At the first synaptic layer, rod and cone terminals contact second order neurons (horizontal and bipolar cells), and in turn, horizontal cells contact cones and bipolar cells. In this talk/review we describe the structures and the neurochemicals involved in transmitting the visual signal at this synaptic complex.

The formation of new associations between items is critical for establishing episodic memories. It has been suggested that the hippocampus is essential for creating such associations but is not involved, or is much less involved, in memory for single items. In Experiment 1, we tested controls and amnesic patients with bilateral lesions thought to be limited primarily to the hippocampal region in both single-item and associative recognition memory tasks. In the single-item task, a conventional recognition memory task was administered in which participants studied either houses or faces and were tested for their ability to recognize the individual items. In the associative task, participants studied paired pictures of houses and faces with instructions that encouraged associating the two stimuli, and were tested for their ability to recognize the specific pairings that were presented at study. Like the controls, the amnesic patients performed more poorly on the associative task. Relative to the controls, the amnesic patients were impaired to a similar extent on the single-item and associative tasks. In Experiment 2, the performance of the amnesic patients was improved by increasing the number of presentations of the study lists (eight presentations instead of one). On both the single-item and associative tests, the performance of the amnesic patients after eight presentations was now identical to the performance of the controls who had been given only one presentation of the study list. Thus, the associative condition was not disproportionally difficult for the amnesic patients. These results are consistent with the idea that the hippocampus is similarly involved in single-item and associative memory.
One of the most rigorously investigated problems in modern neuroscience is to decipher the mechanisms by which experience-induced changes in the central nervous system are translated into behavioral acquisition, consolidation, retention, and subsequent recall of information. Brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) has recently emerged as one of the most potent molecular mediators of not only central synaptic plasticity, but also behavioral interactions between an organism and its environment. Recent experimental evidence indicates that BDNF modulates synaptic transmission and plasticity by acting across different spatial and temporal domains. BDNF signaling evokes both short- and long-term periods of enhanced synaptic physiology in both pre- and postsynaptic compartments of central synapses. Specifically, BDNF/TrkB signaling converges on the MAP kinase pathway to enhance excitatory synaptic transmission in vivo, as well as hippocampal-dependent learning in behaving animals. Emerging concepts of the intracellular signaling cascades involved in synaptic plasticity induced through environmental interactions resulting in behavioral learning further support the contention that BDNF/TrkB signaling plays a fundamental role in mediating enduring changes in central synaptic structure and function. Here we review recent literature showing the involvement of BDNF/TrkB signaling in hippocampal-dependent learning paradigms, as well as in the types of cellular plasticity proposed to underlie learning and memory.
Rat brain slices provide a controllable tissue model in which to investigate the biophysical basis of diffusion-weighted magnetic resonance (MR) signal changes observed clinically in nervous tissue after ischemic injury. This study describes a new multislice perfusion chamber that allows for the simultaneous acquisition of diffusion-weighted MR images from multiple perfused rat hippocampal slices (eight slices in the present study). These images had a signal-to-noise ratio (SNR) of 48 +/- 3 at b = 8080 s/mm(2), which was sufficient to analyze the multicomponent diffusion properties of water in rat hippocampal slices. The tissue water diffusion parameters (f(fast) = 0.527 +/- 0.041, D(fast) = 1.268 +/- 0.087 x 10(-3) mm(2)/s, and D(slow) = 0.060 +/- 0.003 x 10(-3) mm(2)/s) were stable for at least 8 hr after slice procurement (ANOVA, P &gt; 0.05), suggesting that it may be possible to study the acute temporal evolution of diffusion changes in multiple brain slices following experimental perturbation.
Continuous arterial spin labeling (ASL) using a locally induced magnetic field gradient for adiabatic inversion of spins in the common carotid artery of human volunteers is demonstrated. The experimental setup consisted of a helmet resonator for imaging, a circular RF surface coil for labeling, and gradient loops to produce a magnetic field gradient. A spin-echo (SE) echo-planar imaging (EPI) sequence was used for imaging. The approach is independent of the gradients of the MR scanner. This technology may be used if the imaging gradient system does not produce an appropriate magnetic field gradient at the location of the carotid artery-for example, in a head-only scanner-and is a prerequisite for the development of a system that allows continuous labeling during the imaging experiment.
A simple (2)H NMR method for quantifying absolute (2)H-enrichments in all seven aliphatic positions of glucose following its derivatization to monoacetone glucose is presented. The method is based on the addition of a small quantity of (2)H-enriched formate to the NMR sample. When the method was applied to [2-(2)H]monoacetone glucose samples prepared from [2-(2)H]glucose standards of known enrichments in the range of 0.2-2.5%, enrichment estimates derived by the NMR method were in good agreement with the real enrichment values of the [2-(2)H]glucose precursors. The measurement was also applied to monoacetone glucose derived from human plasma glucose samples following administration of (2)H(2)O and attainment of isotopic steady state, where glucose H2 and body water enrichment are equivalent. In these studies, the absolute H2 enrichment of plasma glucose estimated by the formate method was in good agreement with the (2)H-enrichment of body water measured by an independent method.
The limitations and the proper domain of the levels-of-processing construct are considered. Following a sketch of the historical context in which the construct was proposed, some of its empirical and conceptual shortcomings are noted. The argument is then advanced that the notion of memory being determined by depth of processing should be regarded as a functional or purely psychological heuristic, immune to certain criticisms appropriate to the realms of cognitive science and cognitive neuroscience.
During our initial experience with endoscopic third ventriculostomies, we observed intraoperative bradycardia and postoperative hyperkalemia. The present study was carried out to verify the consistency of these initial observations. Intraoperative heart rate (HR) changes and postoperative serum K + changes were studied prospectively in 20 patients of endoscopic third ventriculostomy. Another 6 patients who underwent endoscopic procedures other than ventriculostomy acted as controls. The anaesthetic technique and intraoperative and postoperative fluid regimen were similar in all patients. Serum K + concentrations were measured intraoperatively and once a day for the next 5 days. The third ventriculostomy group exhibited a significant slowing of the heart rate during the fenestration of the floor of the third ventricle (112 +/- 26 to 101 +/- 28 bpm, p &lt; 0.001) and also at the time of the reversal of the neuromuscular block at the end of surgery (104 +/- 29 to 96 +/- 33 bpm, p &lt; 0.01). The control group did not exhibit similar changes in the heart rate. The postoperative increase in serum K + values in the ventriculostomy group (0.82 +/- 0.55 mmol/L) was higher than that in the control group (0.10 +/- 0.44 mmol/L) (p &lt; 0.01). Endoscopic third ventriculostomy is associated with a significant bradycardia at the time of fenestration and at the time of reversal of the neuromuscular block. The procedure is also associated with a postoperative increase in serum K + values. We propose a mechanism involving distortion of the posterior hypothalamus, which accounts for the bradycardia and postoperative hyperkalemia.
Corticotropin-releasing hormone (Crh) plays an important role in modulating physiological and behavioral responses to stress. Its actions are mediated through two receptors, Crhr1 and Crhr2. Urocortin (Ucn), a Crh-related neuropeptide and the postulated endogenous ligand for Crhr2, is a potential mediator of stress responses. We generated Ucn-deficient mice using embryonic stem cell technology to determine its role in stress-induced behavioral and autonomic responses. Unlike Crhr1- or Crhr2-deficient mice, Ucn-deficient mice exhibit normal anxiety-like behavior as well as autonomic regulation in response to stress. However, the mutant mice display an impaired acoustic startle response that is not due to an obvious hearing defect. Thus, our results suggest that Ucn does not play an essential role in stress-induced behavioral and autonomic responses. Ucn may modulate the acoustic startle response through the Ucn-expressing neuron projections from the region of the Edinger-Westphal nucleus.
Topical application of brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) to the adult rat isolated dorsal horn with dorsal root attached preparation inhibited the electrically evoked release of substance P (SP) from sensory neurons. This effect of BDNF was dose dependent (EC(50) 250 pM) and reversed by the tyrosine kinase inhibitor, K-252a. BDNF-induced inhibition of SP release was blocked by the GABA(B) receptor antagonist CGP 55485 but not by naloxone. Acute application of BDNF significantly increased potassium-stimulated release of GABA in the dorsal horn isolated in vitro and this effect was blocked by K-252a. Intrathecal injection of BDNF into the rat lumbar spinal cord induced a short-lasting increase in hindpaw threshold to noxious thermal stimulation that was blocked by CGP 55485 and was associated with activation of ERK in dorsal horn. These data suggest that exogenous BDNF can indirectly modulate primary sensory neuron synaptic efficacy via facilitation of the release of GABA from dorsal horn interneurons.
The ability of differing subunit combinations of 5-HT3 receptors to form functional cell surface receptors was analyzed by a variety of approaches. The results revealed that 5-HT3 receptor assembly occurred within the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) and involved the interaction with chaperone proteins. The 5-HT3A subunit could assemble into functional homomeric receptors that were expressed on the cell surface. In contrast, the 5-HT3B subunit did not exhibit 5-hydroxytryptamine binding or function, could not assemble, and was efficiently retained and degraded within the ER. However, upon the coexpression of the 5-HT3A subunit, 5-HT3B could be &quot;rescued&quot; from the ER and transported to the cell surface to form functional heteromeric receptors with distinct functional characteristics. In support of the existence of homomeric 5-HT3 receptors in vivo, recombinantly expressed 5-HT3A receptors were capable of clustered cell surface expression in cortical neurons.
Cerebral deposition of beta-amyloid (Abeta) is an invariant event of Alzheimer's disease (AD). We recently described that the brain of aged transgenic mice expressing anti-nerve growth factor (NGF) antibodies (AD11 mice) show a dramatic neurodegenerative phenotype, reminiscent of AD, which includes neuronal loss, cholinergic deficit, and tau hyperphosphorylation, associated with neurofibrillary pathology. We now report that brains of aged transgenic mice contain large amounts of beta-amyloid plaques and describe their morphology by a variety of approaches. In conclusion, the chronic deprivation of NGF leads to the formation and deposition of Abeta in AD11 mice, suggesting a direct link between NGF signaling and abnormal processing of amyloid precursor protein.
Stiff person syndrome (SPS) is a rare, chronic disorder characterized by painful spasm and stiffness. We investigated the quality of life (QoL) in SPS patients, and identified factors associated with impairment in patients' QoL. Twenty-four SPS patients (10 men, 14 women; mean age +/- S.D., 52.6 +/- 9.5 years) completed the medical outcomes study Short Form health survey (SF-36), the Beck Depression Inventory (BDI), and a questionnaire asking for sociodemographic and clinical details. Extent of the disease was assessed using a distribution of stiffness score. SPS patients showed markedly reduced mean scores for all dimensions of the SF-36 when compared to norms from the general population of the United Kingdom. QoL scores showed a strong correlation with the extent of the disease. Depression was a common finding; 14 of 24 patients had depressive symptoms as evidenced by the BDI. There was a significant and strong correlation between the BDI score and several SF-36 subscores. This is the first study to address QoL in patients with SPS. We have shown that SPS has a significant impact on patients' reported QoL. The association between depression and QoL highlights the importance of recognizing and treating depression in SPS.
Hereditary amyloidosis with early and prominent peripheral nerve involvement is often designated familial amyloid polyneuropathy (FAP). The abnormality usually lies in the transthyretin (TTR) gene. We describe a patient with a tyr77 TTR gene mutation who presented with sensorimotor polyneuropathy but no other systemic symptoms of amyloidosis. This is one of a few documented cases of the tyr77 mutation in North America. The clinical and electrophysiologic features of this unusual cause of sensorimotor polyneuropathy are discussed.
The isometric and isotonic in situ mechanical properties of the soleus muscle of adult female rats were determined after 60 days of inactivity induced by spinal cord isolation (SI). Compared to control, the absolute muscle mass, physiological cross-sectional area, and maximum tetanic tension of the soleus in SI rats were reduced by 69%, 66%, and 77%, respectively. Isometric twitch time-to-peak-tension and half-relaxation times were 41% and 60% shorter in SI than control rats. The maximum velocity of shortening (mm/s), as determined using the afterloaded technique, was 66% faster in SI than control rats, whereas unloaded shortening velocity was similar in the two groups (9% faster in SI rats). Peak power was 48% lower in SI than control rats. The SI soleus was 39% more fatigable than control. Thus, the soleus became a smaller, faster, and more fatigable muscle following 60 days of inactivity. In general, the results indicate that the adaptations are of a lesser magnitude than those reported previously following denervation for the same duration. These data provide a baseline for future efforts to experimentally define the mechanisms of neurally mediated, but activity-independent, regulation of the mechanical properties of the rat soleus muscle.
DNA fragmentation and apoptosis-related proteins have been investigated in thyroid cells and there is evidence that Fas-mediated apoptosis is inhibited by thyroid stimulating hormone (TSH). We investigated DNA fragmentation by terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase-mediated dUTP nick end labeling (TUNEL), and Bcl-2 and Fas antigen expression by immunocytochemistry in skeletal muscles from 12 patients with hypothyroid myopathy and 5 patients with hyperthyroid myopathy. The finding of very few TUNEL-positive muscle fibers in both conditions suggests that apoptosis does not play a role in the pathogenesis of thyroid myopathies. Bcl-2 expression increased significantly in hypothyroid myopathy, correlating with high serum TSH levels, and not with either triiodothyronine (T3) or thyroxine (T4) serum levels. By contrast, Fas antigen was overexpressed in hyperthyroid myopathy, correlating with low TSH levels. These findings suggest an anti-apoptotic role for TSH itself in skeletal muscle.
In the adult brain, new neurons are continuously generated in the subventricular zone and dentate gyrus, but it is unknown whether these neurons can replace those lost following damage or disease. Here we show that stroke, caused by transient middle cerebral artery occlusion in adult rats, leads to a marked increase of cell proliferation in the subventricular zone. Stroke-generated new neurons, as well as neuroblasts probably already formed before the insult, migrate into the severely damaged area of the striatum, where they express markers of developing and mature, striatal medium-sized spiny neurons. Thus, stroke induces differentiation of new neurons into the phenotype of most of the neurons destroyed by the ischemic lesion. Here we show that the adult brain has the capacity for self-repair after insults causing extensive neuronal death. If the new neurons are functional and their formation can be stimulated, a novel therapeutic strategy might be developed for stroke in humans.

A split-brain patient (epileptic individual whose corpus callosum had been severed to minimize the spread of seizure activity) was asked to recognize morphed facial stimuli--presented separately to each hemisphere--as either himself or a familiar other. Both hemispheres were capable of face recognition, but the left hemisphere showed a recognition bias for self and the right hemisphere a bias for familiar others. These findings suggest a possible dissociation between self-recognition and more generalized face processing within the human brain.
Growing axons navigate by responding to chemical guidance cues. Here we report that growth cones of rat cerebellar axons in culture turned away from a gradient of SDF-1, a chemokine that attracts migrating leukocytes and cerebellar granule cells via a G protein-coupled receptor (GPCR). Similarly, Xenopus spinal growth cones turned away from a gradient of baclofen, an agonist of the GABA(B) receptor. This response was mediated by G(i) and subsequent activation of phospholipase C (PLC), which triggered two pathways: protein kinase C (PKC) led to repulsion, and inositol 1,4,5-triphosphate (IP(3)) receptor activation led to attractive turning. Under normal culture conditions, PKC-dependent repulsion dominated, but the repulsion could be converted to attraction by inhibiting PKC or by elevating cytosolic cGMP. Thus, GPCRs can mediate both repulsive and attractive axon guidance in vitro, and chemokines may serve as guidance cues for axon pathfinding.
Many natural actions require the coordination of two different kinds of movements. How are targets chosen under these circumstances: do central commands instruct different movement systems in parallel, or does the execution of one movement activate a serial chain that automatically chooses targets for the other movement? We examined a natural eye tracking action that consists of orienting saccades and tracking smooth pursuit eye movements, and found strong physiological evidence for a serial strategy. Monkeys chose freely between two identical spots that appeared at different sites in the visual field and moved in orthogonal directions. If a saccade was evoked to one of the moving targets by microstimulation in either the frontal eye field (FEF) or the superior colliculus (SC), then the same target was automatically chosen for pursuit. Our results imply that the neural signals responsible for saccade execution can also act as an internal command of target choice for other movement systems.
Sleep can be addressed across the entire hierarchy of biological organization. We discuss neuronal-network and regional forebrain activity during sleep, and its consequences for consciousness and cognition. Complex interactions in thalamocortical circuits maintain the electroencephalographic oscillations of non-rapid eye movement (NREM) sleep. Functional neuroimaging affords views of the human brain in both NREM and REM sleep, and has informed new concepts of the neural basis of dreaming during REM sleep -- a state that is characterized by illogic, hallucinosis and emotionality compared with waking. Replay of waking neuronal activity during sleep in the rodent hippocampus and in functional images of human brains indicates possible roles for sleep in neuroplasticity. Different forms and stages of learning and memory might benefit from different stages of sleep and be subserved by different forebrain regions.
This paper presents a biologically inspired, hardware-realisable spiking neuron model, which we call the Temporal Noisy-Leaky Integrator (TNLI). The dynamic applications of the model as well as its applications in Computational Neuroscience are demonstrated and a learning algorithm based on postsynaptic delays is proposed. The TNLI incorporates temporal dynamics at the neuron level by modelling both the temporal summation of dendritic postsynaptic currents which have controlled delay and duration and the decay of the somatic potential due to its membrane leak. Moreover, the TNLI models the stochastic neurotransmitter release by real neuron synapses (with probabilistic RAMs at each input) and the firing times including the refractory period and action potential repolarisation. The temporal features of the TNLI make it suitable for use in dynamic time-dependent tasks like its application as a motion and velocity detector system presented in this paper. This is done by modelling the experimental velocity selectivity curve of the motion sensitive H1 neuron of the visual system of the fly. This application of the TNLI indicates its potential applications in artificial vision systems for robots. It is also demonstrated that Hebbian-based learning can be applied in the TNLI for postsynaptic delay training based on coincidence detection, in such a way that an arbitrary temporal pattern can be detected and recognised. The paper also demonstrates that the TNLI can be used to control the firing variability through inhibition; with 80% inhibition to concurrent excitation, firing at high rates is nearly consistent with a Poisson-type firing variability observed in cortical neurons. It is also shown with the TNLI, that the gain of the neuron (slope of its transfer function) can be controlled by the balance between inhibition and excitation, the gain being a decreasing function of the proportion of inhibitory inputs. Finally, in the case of perfect balance between inhibition and excitation, i.e. where the average input current is zero, the neuron can still fire as a result of membrane potential fluctuations. The firing rate is then determined by the average input firing rate. Overall this work illustrates how a hardware-realisable neuron model can capitalise on the unique computational capabilities of biological neurons.
The accumulation of altered proteins is a common pathogenic mechanism in several neurodegenerative disorders. A causal role of protein aggregation was originally proposed in Alzheimer's disease (AD) where extracellular deposition of beta-amyloid (Abeta) is the main neuropathological feature. It is now believed that intracellular deposition of aggregated proteins may be relevant in Parkinson's disease (PD), amyotrophic lateral sclerosis and polyglutamine disorders. An impairment of ubiquitin-proteasome system (UPS) appears directly involved in these disorders. We reviewed the results on the role of protein misfolding in AD and PD and the influence of mutations associated with these diseases on the expression of amyloidogenic proteins. Results of genetic screening of familial cases of AD and PD are summarized. In the familial AD population (70 subjects) we found several mutations of the presenilin 1 (PS1) gene with a frequency of 12.8% and one mutation in the gene encoding the protein precursor of amyloid (APP) (1.4%). One mutation of Parkin in the homozygous form and two in the heterozygous form were identified in our PD population. We also reported data obtained with synthetic peptides and other experimental models, for evaluation of the pathogenic role of mutations in terms of protein misfolding.
Oxidative and nitrosative stress is increasingly associated with the pathology of neurodegeneration and aging. The molecular mechanisms underlying oxidative/nitrosative stress-induced neuronal damage are emerging and appear to involve a mode of death in which mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) signaling pathways are strongly implicated. Thus, attention is turning towards the modulation of intracellular signaling as a therapeutic approach against neurodegeneration. Both endogenous and dietary agents have been suggested as potent modulators of intracellular signal transduction, e.g. nitric oxide and flavonoids, respectively. This review addresses recent findings on the biological effects of flavonoids and nitric oxide in neurodegeneration and aims to elucidate the rationale for their prospective use as modulators of cellular signal transduction.
An ever increasing number of reports shows the involvement of free radicals in the functional and structural changes occurring in the brain as a part of the &quot;normal&quot; aging process. Given that plasma membrane and intracellular ion channels play a critical role in maintaining intracellular ion homeostasis, which is crucial for neuronal cell survival, in the present review we have attempted to elaborate on the idea that functional changes in ion channel activity induced by reactive oxygen species (ROS) and reactive nitrogen species (RNS) might occur during the aging process. To this aim, we have reviewed the available literature and the data obtained in our laboratory on the ability of ROS and RNS to modify the activity of several plasma membrane and intracellular ion channels and transporters, in an attempt to correlate such changes with those occurring with the aging process. Particular emphasis is given to voltage-gated Na(+), Ca(2+), and K(+) channels, although second messenger-activated channels like Ca(2+)- and ATP-dependent K(+) channels, and intracellular channels controlling intracellular Ca(2+) storage and release will also be discussed. On the basis of the available data it is not yet possible to establish a strict correlation between the changes in neuronal electrophysiological properties induced by oxidative modification at the level of ion channels and the neurodegenerative process accompanying brain aging. However, an increasing amount of information suggests that the modulatory effects exerted by ROS and RNS on ion channel proteins might have a relevant role for neuronal cell survival or death. Obviously, more work is needed to establish the possible involvement of ion channels and of their modulation by ROS and RNS as important mechanisms for the aging process. Only when a more complete molecular picture of the aging process will be available, it will be possible to test the fascinating hypothesis that aging might be pharmacologically delayed by modulating ROS and RNS action on ion channels or the biochemical pathways involved in their modulation.
Animal models that simulate various aspects of human brain aging are an essential step in the development of interventions to manage cognitive dysfunction in the elderly. Over the past several years we have been studying cognition and neuropathology in the aged-canine (dog). Like humans, canines naturally accumulate deposits of beta-amyloid (Abeta) in the brain with age. Further, canines and humans share the same Abeta sequence and also first show deposits of the longer Abeta1-42 species followed by the deposition of Abeta1-40. Aged canines like humans also show increased oxidative damage. As a function of age, canines show impaired learning and memory on tasks similar to those used in aged primates and humans. The extent of Abeta deposition correlates with the severity of cognitive dysfunction in canines. To test the hypothesis that a cascade of mechanisms centered on oxidative damage and Abeta results in cognitive dysfunction we have evaluated the cognitive effects of an antioxidant diet in aged canines. The diet resulted in a significant improvement in the ability of aged but not young animals to acquire progressively more difficult learning tasks (e.g. oddity discrimination learning). The canine represent a higher animal model to study the earliest declines in the cognitive continuum that includes age associated memory impairments (AAMI) and mild cognitive impairment (MCI) observed in human aging. Thus, studies in the canine model suggest that oxidative damage impairs cognitive function and that antioxidant treatment can result in significant improvements, supporting the need for further human studies.
Cells in the brain deploy multiple mechanisms to maintain the integrity of nerve cell circuits, and to facilitate responses to environmental demands and promote recovery of function after injury. The mechanisms include production of neurotrophic factors and cytokines, expression of various cell survival-promoting proteins (e.g. protein chaperones, antioxidant enzymes, Bcl-2 and inhibitor of apoptosis proteins), protection of the genome by telomerase and DNA repair proteins, and mobilization of neural stem cells to replace damaged neurons and glia. The aging process challenges such neuroprotective and neurorestorative mechanisms, often with devastating consequences as in Alzheimer's disease (AD), Parkinson's and Huntington's diseases and stroke. Genetic and environmental factors superimposed upon the aging process can determine whether brain aging is successful or unsuccessful. Mutations in genes that cause inherited forms of AD (amyloid precursor protein (APP) and presenilins), Parkinson's disease (alpha-synuclein and parkin) and trinucleotide repeat disorders (e.g. huntingtin and the androgen receptor) overwhelm endogenous neuroprotective mechanisms. On the other hand, neuroprotective mechanisms can be bolstered by dietary (caloric restriction, and folate and antioxidant supplementation) and behavioral (cognitive and physical activities) modifications. At the cellular and molecular levels, successful brain aging can be facilitated by activating a hormesis response to which neurons respond by upregulating the expression of neurotrophic factors and stress proteins. Neural stem cells that reside in the adult brain are also responsive to environmental demands, and appear capable of replacing lost or dysfunctional neurons and glial cells, perhaps even in the aging brain. The recent application of modem methods of molecular and cellular biology to the problem of brain aging is revealing a remarkable capacity within brain cells for adaptation to aging and resistance to disease.


Several studies have reported that administration of a low dose of alcohol is capable of retrograde enhancement of memory. It has been postulated that the neurobiological mechanisms underlying this effect may involve the liberation of glucose and/or activation of reward centers. Here the effects of a low dose of alcohol were compared to those of glucose on kinesthetic memory. Mood and blood glucose levels were also measured. Compared with a placebo, both glucose and alcohol significantly enhanced kinesthetic memory performance. Only glucose ingestion resulted in significantly elevated blood glucose levels. The three groups' mood scores were statistically indistinguishable. Low-dose alcohol consumption does not result in the release of glucose nor does it affect any aspect of mood, at least as measured here. These results confirm that kinesthetic memory can be improved by administration of alcohol and extend the range of tasks which are sensitive to enhancement by glucose.
Glucocorticoid modulation of emotional memory has repeatedly been shown in aversive learning paradigms, but has received little attention in appetitive tasks. It has also been suggested that it may be selective for contextual cues. In order to investigate if glucocorticoids can modulate memory in discrete-cue conditioning of both appetitive and aversive tasks, two experiments were carried out. Male Lister-Hooded rats received pairings of an auditory cue and either food-reward (experiment 1) or footshock (experiment 2), followed immediately by posttraining injections of the glucocorticoid receptor agonist dexamethasone (0.3, 0.6, and 1.2 mg/kg) or vehicle. Dexamethasone (1.2 mg/kg) led to significantly enhanced learning. These results give support to the notion that glucocorticoids play a role in the modulation of both appetitive and aversive emotional memories and show that their role in learning goes beyond the construction of context representations. The modulation of appetitive and aversive discrete-cue learning may be subserved by a common mechanism.
This experiment examined the role of the medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC) in regulating learned autonomic and somatomotor responses in rabbits using appetitive Pavlovian conditioning. Interstimulus interval (ISI) duration [i.e., the time between the onset of the conditioned stimulus (CS) and unconditioned stimulus (US)] was manipulated in order to determine whether ISI duration was related to the heart rate (HR) responses obtained during conditioning. Two groups received either a 1- or a 4-s ISI, with a tone as the CS and an intraoral pulse of water as the US. Another two groups received explicitly unpaired presentations of either the 1- or 4-s tone CS and water US. Few conditioned jaw movement (JM) or HR conditioned responses (CRs) were observed in the unpaired conditions. Significant JM conditioning was, however, elicited by the paired conditions, especially to the 4-s ISI. Consistent CS-evoked HR accelerations were observed in both ISI conditions. After five sessions of training, the mPFC was lesioned in half the animals. A separate group of paired animals received sham lesions. After surgical recovery, all animals received 3 days of postoperative training. During the first postoperative training session, JM CRs significantly declined in both groups with mPFC lesions in comparison to the groups with sham lesions. The mPFC lesions, however, did not affect the CS-evoked cardiac accelerations, which again occurred during postoperative training.
This study evaluated the cognitive mapping abilities of rats that spent part of their early development in a microgravity environment. Litters of male and female Sprague-Dawley rat pups were launched into space aboard the National Aeronautics and Space Administration space shuttle Columbia on postnatal day 8 or 14 and remained in space for 16 days. These animals were designated as FLT groups. Two age-matched control groups remained on Earth: those in standard vivarium housing (VIV) and those in housing identical to that aboard the shuttle (AGC). On return to Earth, animals were tested in three different tasks that measure spatial learning ability, the Morris water maze (MWM), and a modified version of the radial arm maze (RAM). Animals were also tested in an open field apparatus to measure general activity and exploratory activity. Performance and search strategies were evaluated in each of these tasks using an automated tracking system. Despite the dramatic differences in early experience, there were remarkably few differences between the FLT groups and their Earth-bound controls in these tasks. FLT animals learned the MWM and RAM as quickly as did controls. Evaluation of search patterns suggested subtle differences in patterns of exploration and in the strategies used to solve the tasks during the first few days of testing, but these differences normalized rapidly. Together, these data suggest that development in an environment without gravity has minimal long-term impact on spatial learning and memory abilities. Any differences due to development in microgravity are quickly reversed after return to earth normal gravity.
GABAergic alterations in brain stem during compensatory hyperplasia after partial hepatectomy (PH), lead nitrate (LN)-induced direct hyperplasia, and N-nitrosodiethylamine (NDEA)-induced neoplasia in liver were investigated. GABA content decreased in brain stem of PH- and NDEA-treated rats while it increased in LN-treated rats. GABA(A) receptor number and affinity in brain stem membrane preparations of rats showed a significant decrease in PH- and NDEA-treated rats. The GABA(B) receptor number increased in PH- and NDEA-treated rats with an increase in affinity. The results of the present study indicate that liver cell proliferation is influencing the brain stem GABAergic neurotransmission and these changes regulate the hepatic proliferation through the sympathetic stimulation.
We studied the long-term effect of neonatal treatment with the synthetic glucocorticoid dexamethasone (DEX) on stress responsivity later in life. It was found that the plasma adrenocorticotropin hormone (ACTH) and corticosterone (CORT) responses induced by novelty or conditioned fear stress were markedly attenuated in adult rats that had been neonatally treated with DEX as compared with saline (SAL)-treated controls. Since there were no differences in the heart rate, body temperature, plasma noradrenaline, plasma adrenaline and behavioral responses to these stressors, this points to a deficit within the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis of DEX rats. We found no differences between DEX and SAL rats in basal plasma CORT concentrations measured throughout the circadian cycle, nor in the fraction unbound of CORT circulating under resting conditions, indicating normal tonic regulation of the HPA axis in DEX rats. Since we also found no differences in the hormonal responses induced by intravenous injection of graded doses of ACTH or corticotropin-releasing hormone (CRH), we investigated the sensitivity of the HPA response to stress for inhibition by glucocorticoids. Pretreatment with a low dose of CORT that did not affect the HPA response of SAL rats markedly inhibited the ACTH and CORT responses induced by novelty stress in DEX rats. This strongly suggests that an enhanced corticosteroid feedback underlies the blunted HPA response to stress in DEX rats. Finally, using quantitative immunocytochemistry, we found an increase in arginine-vasopressin (AVP) but not CRH stores in the external zone of the median eminence, suggesting an altered AVP/CRH ratio in the secretory output of the hypophysiotropic paraventricular nucleus. Taken together, our results show that exposure to DEX during early life leads to hyporesponsivity of the HPA axis to stress most likely due to hypersensitivity of the axis for negative feedback by corticosteroids at the suprapituitary level.
We investigated the accuracy of spatial basis function normalization using anatomical landmarks to determine how precisely homologous regions are colocalized. We examined precision in terms of: (1) the number of nonlinear basis functions used by the normalization procedure; (2) the degree of (Bayesian) regularization; and (3) the effect of substituting different templates and how this interacted with the number of basis functions. The face validity of spatial normalization was assessed as a function of these parameters, using the colocalization of homologous landmarks in a test sample of 20 normally developing children and 5 children with bilateral hippocampal pathology. Our results suggest that when optimal normalization parameters are used, anatomical landmarks in the medial temporal lobes are colocalized to within a standard deviation of about 1 mm. When suboptimal parameters are used this standard deviation can increase up to 3 mm. Interestingly the optimal parameters are those that provide a rather constrained normalization as opposed to those that optimize intensity matching at the expense of rendering the warps &quot;unlikely.&quot; The implications of our results, for users of voxel-based morphometry, are discussed.
The main impact of functional neuroimaging has been its ability to locate neuronal activity either directly (EEG, MEG) or through the hemodynamic response caused by neuronal activity (PET, fMRI). In the past decade functional neuroimaging has been extended to investigate how brain regions interact, using the concepts of functional and effective connectivity. These concepts are further strengthened by estimates of anatomical connectivity of the same subject. A tool to determine anatomical connectivity in vivo may be provided by diffusion tensor imaging (DTI) methods. These can be used to determine the orientation of fiber bundles in white matter on the basis of the diffusion characteristics of water. Commonly, DTI data are acquired using echo planar imaging which suffers from susceptibility artifacts in orbitofrontal and inferior temporal cortex. Here we demonstrate the use of an alternative pulse sequence, diffusion-weighted single-shot STEAM, for assessing fiber orientation in orbitofrontal cortex and the cranial nerves. The scope of DTI needs to be extended to these structures to investigate psychiatric disorders in which orbitofrontal pathology or temporo-frontal disconnection have been postulated.
Distributed linear solutions of the EEG source localization problem are used routinely. Here we describe an approach based on the weighted minimum norm method that imposes constraints using anatomical and physiological information derived from other imaging modalities to regularize the solution. In this approach the hyperparameters controlling the degree of regularization are estimated using restricted maximum likelihood (ReML). EEG data are always contaminated by noise, e.g., exogenous noise and background brain activity. The conditional expectation of the source distribution, given the data, is attained by carefully balancing the minimization of the residuals induced by noise and the improbability of the estimates as determined by their priors. This balance is specified by hyperparameters that control the relative importance of fitting and conforming to prior constraints. Here we introduce a systematic approach to this regularization problem, in the context of a linear observation model we have described previously. In this model, basis functions are extracted to reduce the solution space a priori in the spatial and temporal domains. The basis sets are motivated by knowledge of the evoked EEG response and information theory. In this paper we focus on an iterative &quot;expectation-maximization&quot; procedure to jointly estimate the conditional expectation of the source distribution and the ReML hyperparameters on which this solution rests. We used simulated data mixed with real EEG noise to explore the behavior of the approach with various source locations, priors, and noise levels. The results enabled us to conclude: (i) Solutions in the space of informed basis functions have a high face and construct validity, in relation to conventional analyses. (ii) The hyperparameters controlling the degree of regularization vary largely with source geometry and noise. The second conclusion speaks to the usefulness of using adaptative ReML hyperparameter estimates.
Fearful facial expressions evoke increased neural responses in human amygdala. We used event-related fMRI to investigate whether eye or mouth components of a fearful face are critical in evoking this increased amygdala activity. In addition to prototypical fearful (FF) and neutral (NN) faces, subjects viewed two types of chimerical face: fearful eyes combined with a neutral mouth (FN), and neutral eyes combined with a fearful mouth (NF). FE faces evoked specific responses in left anterior amygdala. FN faces evoked responses in bilateral posterior amygdala and superior colliculus. Responses in right amygdala, superior colliculus, and pulvinar exhibited significant time x condition interactions with respect to faces with fearful eyes (FF, FN) vs neutral eyes (NF, NN). These data indicate that fearful eyes alone are sufficient to evoke increased amygdala activity. In addition, however, left amygdala displayed discriminatory responses to fearful eyes in different configural contexts (i.e., in FF and FN faces). These results suggest, therefore, that human amygdala responds to both feature-specific and configural aspects of fearful facial expressions.
The question of whether pediatric and adult neuroimaging data can be analyzed in a common stereotactic space is a critical issue for developmental neuroscience. Two studies were performed to address this question. In Study 1, high-resolution structural MR brain images of 20 children (7-8 years of age) and 20 young adults (18-30 years of age) were transformed to a common space. Overall brain shape was assessed by tracing the outer boundaries of the brains in three orientations, and more local anatomy was assessed by analysis of portions of 10 selected sulci. Small, but consistent, differences in location and variability were observed in specific locations of the sulcal tracings and outer-boundary sections. In Study 2, a computer simulation was used to assess the extent to which the small anatomical differences observed in Study 1 would produce spurious effects in functional imaging data. Results indicate that, assuming a functional resolution of 5 mm in images averaged across subjects, anatomical differences in either variability or location between children and adults of the magnitude obperved in Study 1 would not negatively affect functional image comparisons. We conclude that atlas-transformed brain morphology is relatively consistent between 7- and 8-year-old children and adults at a resolution appropriate to current functional imaging and that the small anatomical differences present do not limit the usefulness of comparing child and adult functional images within a common stereotactic space.
The neural bases of the different processes involved in task switching remain poorly identified. Whether distinct brain regions are involved according to the overall structure of the task sequence and the predictability of task timing during task switching is unknown. To address this question, we used functional magnetic resonance imaging and a 2 x 2 factorial design varying timing (fixed/random) and task order (predictable/unpredictable). We hypothesized that predictable task order should activate brain regions involved in long-term memory retrieval because retrieving which task has to be performed constitutes the essential part of what subjects can do to prepare before stimulus presentation. When examining the &quot;pure&quot; main effects of task order/timing predictability/ unpredictability, we found that anticipating task order activated the right hippocampus, the anterior medial prefrontal cortex, and the posterior cingulate cortex, while anticipating task onset timing activated the left middle and superior frontal gyrus. Furthermore, task order unpredictability activated the intraparietal cortex bilaterally while random relative to fixed timing activated the right cerebellum. Interactions between task order and timing were found in a network, which included the left frontopolar cortex and the lateral prefrontal cortex bilaterally. Specifically, the left frontopolar cortex was more activated when both timing and task order were predictable, while the lateral prefrontal cortices were more activated when both task order and timing were unpredictable. These results indicate a hierarchic organization of the prefrontal cortex along a posterioanterior axis as the task becomes more endogenously guided. Finally, we found no evidence for specific brain regions involved in task switching because a bilateral prefronto-parietal network, which was activated in task switching relative to performing each task separately, was no longer activated relative to a control condition, which required subjects to maintain two tasks in memory without switching between them.
The study of human neuroreceptor systems by means of positron emission tomography (PET) and suitable radioligands has proven to be of great importance in research on normal brain functions and the pathophysiology and treatment of neuropsychiatric disorders. A for long identified goal is to produce detailed parametric maps of showing neuroreceptor binding parameters for the entire human brain in vivo. The application of wavelet filters has recently been proposed as a solution to handle the inherently low signal-to-noise ratio of PET images. In the present study we applied the wavelet approach to data obtained from 10 healthy subjects who were examined with [11C]FLB 457. This high affinity dopamine D2-receptor antagonist provides a signal from a range of regions with a hundredfold difference in receptor density and should thus be suitable for evaluation of the wavelet approach. For cross-validation purposes the data were analysed with four methods: a traditional region-of-interest (ROI) based analysis, a pixel-based analysis and two variants of wavelet-aided analyses. In both variants the wavelet filter was spatially applied, but a two-dimensional filter was used in one case and a three-dimensional one in the other. The same linear-graphical binding potential (BP) estimation step was used for all methods and the results of the three parametric mapping techniques were compared to the reference ROI-based method by calculating the average BP of representative ROIs. The pixel-based and the two-dimensional-wavelet-based methods yielded highly correlated but systematically lower values when compared to the reference ROI-based method. The approach utilising three-dimensional wavelet filters yielded BP maps with regional averages closely matching the values of the ROI-based method. The results show that the combination of three-dimensional spatial wavelet filtering with established parameter estimation procedures provides detailed, accurate maps of radioligand binding parameters. Such maps can be used for in inter-individual or multi-condition comparisons of binding parameters at subregional levels.
A 56 year old man presented with acute onset posterior column and lateral spinothalamic tract dysfunction over a period of 15 days. MRI showed diffuse hyperintensity on T2WI involving the posterior columns. A diagnosis of subacute combined degeneration (SCD) of the spinal cord was considered and confirmed by laboratory findings. The patient showed complete recovery on B12 therapy. MRI lesion also compeletely resolved.
Ossified ligamentum flavum is increasingly appreciated as an important cause of thoracic myeloradiculopathy. Fifteen patients with age ranging from 30-61 years were studied. Fourteen presented with spastic paraparesis, and radiculopathy was the only complaint in one patient. Routine skiagrams and myelograms showed non-specific changes. Baseline CT and CT myelogram, however, documented the ossification of ligamentum flavum comprehensively. MRI was done in three patients. Multiple levels of the disease were seen in two cases. Four patients had ossified posterior longitudinal ligament. Thickened ligamentum flavum should be considered as an important cause of thoracic cord compression.
Intracranial metastases of central nervous system are relatively common in patients with systemic cancer. Computed tomography (CT) scans of 60 patients of intracranial metastatic disease of unknown primaries, at the time of surgery, were retrospectively analyzed. These patients primarily presented with neurological dysfunction. They were operated upon for various reasons and histopathological diagnosis was obtained. There were 39 male and 21 female patients, with age range of 18 to 74 years. The common clinical symptoms were raised intracranial pressure without lateralization, acute onset hemiplegia and seizures. Multiple cranial nerve palsies were observed in 4 patients. Histopathologically the intracranial lesions consisted of metastatic adenocarcinoma (32 cases) or metastatic squamous cell carcinoma (28 cases). Among cases of adenocarcinoma, CT revealed solitary lesions in 17 and multiple lesions in 13 cases. Two had extraaxial deposition in the region of petrous apex. Out of squamous cell carcinomas, 17 lesions were solitary, while 10 were multiple and one had extraaxial deposition in the region of petrous apex. This study is unique as it consisted of CT features of intracranial metastases of unknown primary malignant disease elsewhere in the body.
Dysphagia is a frequent symptom in parkinsonism, but it is less commonly reported by patients with idiopathic Parkinson's disease (IPD), especially in the early phases. Sixty-five patients with IPD were questioned about symptoms of dysphagia and an objective swallowing test was administered. Reduced swallowing speed for food and complaints of food sticking in the throat, wet voice and cough after liquid intake and nocturnal sialorrhea were reported, respectively, by 35%, 20% and 15% of patients. On objective examination, oral-phase (facial, tongue and palatal musculature) abnormalities were found in 70% of patients. Lingual transfer movements, mainly propulsion, and palatal elevation were severely hypokinetic. Wet voice after liquid intake and cough reflex after solid/liquid intake were detected in 40% of patients. On the other hand, severe dysphagia with frequent food aspiration and chest infections requiring antibiotics in the last 12 months was not found; cough reflex was retained in all patients. On the basis of these results, a regular assessment on swallowing abilities in patients with IPD is warranted in the clinical setting because with simple dietary advice and a short rehabilitative training, the quality of life in these patients can be improved.
An alternative approach to the symptomatic treatment of parkinsonian patients with and without motor fluctuations is to use dual dopamine agonists. The aim of this study was to investigate the symptomatic effect of administrating a second dopamine agonist to parkinsonian patients already assuming pramipexole or ropinirole. As the second dopamine agonist we chose cabergoline, a drug with a long half life, whose pharmacological profile differs from that of the newer non-ergot-derived dopamine-receptor agonists. In this pilot study we enrolled 27 patients: 21 patients had motor fluctuations and were receiving levodopa plus a dopamine agonist, and 6 patients without motor fluctuations were receiving a dopamine agonist without levodopa. This open study shows that dual dopamine agonist therapy (cabergoline plus pramipexole or ropinirole) may be used in the symptomatic treatment of patients with Parkinson's disease receiving therapy with or without levodopa.
Deep brain stimulation (DBS) of the subthalamic nucleus (STN) has been shown to be an effective therapy for the treatment of advanced Parkinson's disease (PD). Forty-seven patients were bilaterally implanted for STN DBS and clinically evaluated according to the Core Assessment Program for Intracerebral Transplantations before surgery and 3, 12 and 24 months after surgery. Electrical stimulation led to a significant improvement in motor symptoms and in the quality of life, allowing a significant reduction of dopaminergic drugs with a consequent improvement of drug-induced dyskinesias. Statistical differences were observed between UPDRS parts II, III and IV values and daily levodopa dosage in the pre- and postoperative periods, while no differences were evident between the 3 postoperative conditions.
We investigated the presence of cytogenetic alterations in peripheral blood lymphocytes of Alzheimer's disease (AD) and Parkinson's disease (PD) patients. Detection of spontaneous structural and/or numerical chromosome damage has been assessed by micronucleus (MN) assay coupled with fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH). The cytogenetic investigation was performed on 22 AD patients, 18 PD patients, and 20 controls. The spontaneous frequencies of micronuclei (MN) in human lymphocytes of both AD and PD patients were significantly higher than in controls. The majority of MN was composed of whole chromosomes in AD patients, while a prevalence of MN arising from chromosome breakage was observed in PD patients. Different molecular mechanisms underlie cytogenetic alterations observed in peripheral lymphocytes of AD and PD patients.
In order to evaluate the biochemical effects of long-term treatment with inhibitors of acetylcholinesterase (AChE) in patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD), we measured the activities of AChE and butyrylcholinesterase (BuChe) and the concentrations of beta-amyloid (1-42), tau and phosphorylated tau proteins in the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF). A total of 91 patients suffering from probable AD of mild to moderate degree were treated for 6 months with donepezil (n=59), galantamine (n=15), rivastigmine (n=10), or placebo (n=7). AChE activity in CSF was significantly increased after treatment with donepezil and galantamine; the opposite was observed in the rivastigmine-treated group. Untreated patients did not show any AChE activity variation. BuChE did not show any change in any of the groups studied. Mean values of beta-amyloid(1-42), total tau and phosphorylated tau also did not vary significantly. We conclude that AChE inhibitors induce different effects on CSF AChE activity, while other CSF biomarkers are not significantly affected by treatment.
We describe the 8-years follow-up of 80 patients affected by idiopathic, L-dopa-responsive Parkinson's disease. All patients were evaluated at baseline and during the follow-up with visual evoked potential, P300 event related potentials and polysomnography. The patients and their relatives compiled sleep and hallucination questionnaires. Statistical analysis was performed to evaluate if visual abnormalities, abnormal P300 recordings or sleep disturbances were linked to the development and hallucinations. Our results show that abnormal vision and abnormal P300 did not correlate with the incidence of hallucinations. However, the presence of REM sleep behavioral disorder (RBD) was significantly related to the development of hallucinations,independently of age, gender or duration of disease but dependent on the amount of dopaminoagonist treatment.
This study investigated the efficacy and safety of quetiapine versus clozapine in parkinsonian patients with dopaminergic psychosis. All patients fulfilling the inclusion criteria were randomly assigned to receive either quetiapine or clozapine. The duration of the trial was 12 weeks. The severity of psychosis was assessed using the BPRS and the Clinical Global Impression Scale-Severity subscale (CGI-S). The UPDRS III was used to monitor the progression of PD during the study period. Twenty patients, 10 on clozapine, and 10 on quetiapine, completed the study. The psychopathological state, as assessed by the BPRS and by the CGI-S, improved significantly ( p&lt;0.001) from baseline in both treatment groups. No differences were found between clozapine and quetiapine at each assessment time. The UPDRS score decreased significantly ( p&lt;0.05) in the clozapine group, while was almost unchanged in the quetiapine group.
Huntington's disease (HD) is characterized by chorea, cognitive and behavioral changes. Amantadine, a non-competitive NMDA receptor antagonist, has shown an antidyskinetic effect on levodopa-induced dyskinesias, which are known to have strict pathogenetic analogies with choreic hyperkinesias. The antidyskinetic efficacy of amantadine and its effects on cognitive and behavioural symptoms were evaluated. Eight HD patients received oral amantadine (100 mg tid) unblinded for a 1-year period. A significant reduction of dyskinesias was reported ( p&lt;0.01). No changes were observed in neuropsychologic and psychiatric assessments after 6 and 12 months of therapy. These data may have relevance to the treatment of HD with amantadine.
Neuroimaging studies of striatal dopamine transporters (DAT) have shown that this measurement is a specific marker of dopaminergic degeneration in patients with Parkinson's disease. However, little data is available in subjects with early disease onset, particularly in those with autosomal recessive parkinsonism. We measured striatal DAT binding in 10 patients with early onset PD (onset &lt;40 years) and in 10 with late onset PD (onset &gt;50 years) using PET and the tracer [(11)C]FECIT. One early onset subject presented a mutation in the parkin gene consistent with autosomal recessive parkinsonism. Data were compared with those of 15 control subjects. We found a comparable decrement of striatal DAT binding in early and late onset PD. Loss was widespread and bilateral in the patient carrying the Park2 mutation, suggesting a different pattern of denervation in these individuals.
We report the case of a 65-year-old woman who developed symptoms of spinal cord compression due to a spinal meningioma after 10 years of treatment with hydroxyurea (1000 mg/day) for essential thrombocytemia. This case provides a paradigm for the occurrence of symptomatic meningioma in course of HU therapy.
The objective of this double-blind, randomized, placebo-controlled study was to test the efficacy of high-dose prednisone, administered as early as possible, in modifying the natural progression of Bell's palsy. Sixty-two consecutive patients, enrolled within 72 hours of facial palsy onset, were assigned to high dose intravenous prednisone in combination with intramuscular polyvitaminic therapy (group A) or polyvitaminic therapy alone (group B). Clinical grading of facial muscle strength and length of absence from work were evaluated. An early worsening of facial muscle strength was observed in controls, leading to the divergence in the trends of the grading scores in the two groups; this result was not confirmed in the long-term follow-up. Treated patients returned to work earlier than controls. In conclusion, early treatment based on high-dose corticosteroids slightly accelerates spontaneous improvement in Bell's palsy.
The epsilon -subunit of the GABA(A) receptor was independently cloned and functionally characterised in recombinant expression systems by two groups (Davies, P.A. et al., Nature 385 (1997) 820; Whiting, P.J. et al., Journal of Neuroscience 17 (1997) 5027). Both groups showed that co-expression of alphabeta epsilon -subunits produced functional receptors, however the sensitivity of these receptors to the potentiating effects of general anaesthetic agents differed. Co-expression of the two epsilon -constructs (hereafter referred to as epsilon (MRK) from Whiting, P.J. et al., Journal of Neuroscience 17 (1997) 5027) and epsilon (TIGR) from Davies et al., Nature 385 (1997) 820) with alpha1beta1 in Xenopus oocytes produced receptors that were sensitive (alpha1beta1 epsilon (MRK)) and insensitive (alpha1beta1 epsilon (TIGR)) to the potentiating effects of pentobarbitone, 5alpha-pregnan-3alpha-ol-20-one and etomidate. Both alpha1beta1 epsilon (MRK) and alpha1beta1 epsilon (TIGR) receptors were directly activated by these agents, however for pentobarbitone and 5alpha-pregnan-3alpha-ol-20-one this effect was greater on alpha1beta1 epsilon (TIGR) than alpha1beta1 epsilon (MRK). alpha1beta1 epsilon (TIGR) receptors were more sensitive to GABA and had a larger degree of constitutive activity than alpha1beta1 epsilon (MRK). Insensitivity to the potentiating effects of anaesthetics was not due to the single amino acid difference between the two constructs nor to differences in the 5' and 3' untranslated regions. Transfer of epsilon (TIGR) from its original vector, pCDM8, into pcDNA1.1Amp and reduction in the amount of epsilon (TIGR) in pCDM8 relative to the amount of alpha1 and beta1 injected into the oocyte restored potentiation by pentobarbitone. Increased expression of epsilon (TIGR) protein compared to epsilon (MRK) was confirmed by Western blotting. We conclude that the differences in the potentiating effects of anaesthetic agents on alpha1beta1 epsilon (MRK/TIGR) receptors is due to overexpression of epsilon (TIGR) in the pCDM8 vector, relative to the alpha1 and beta1-subunits, which may lead to an altered stoichiometry.
The influence of the subunit composition of human GABA(A) receptors upon the GABA-modulatory properties of 5alpha-pregnan-3alpha-ol-20-one (5alpha,3alpha) has been examined using the Xenopus laevis oocyte expression system and the two electrode voltage-clamp technique. Steroid potency (EC(50)) is modestly influenced by the alpha-isoform (alpha(x)beta(1)gamma(2L); x=1-6). alpha(2)-, alpha(4)- and alpha(5)-containing receptors are significantly less sensitive to the action of low concentrations of 5alpha,3alpha (10-100 nM) when compared to alpha(1,3,6)beta(1)gamma(2L) receptors. Additionally, the maximal effect of the steroid is favoured at alpha(6)-containing receptors. The beta-isoform (alpha(1)beta(y)gamma(2L); y=1-3) has little influence on the GABA-modulatory effect of the neurosteroid. The EC(50) of 5alpha,3alpha is only modestly influenced by the omission of the gamma(2) subunit (alpha(1)beta(1)gamma(2L) vs alpha(1)beta(1)): while the maximal effect is favoured by the binary complex. However, the identity of the gamma subunit influences the GABA(A)-modulatory potency of 5alpha,3alpha with gamma(2)- and gamma(1)-containing receptors being the most and the least sensitive to 5alpha,3alpha, respectively. Finally, incorporation of the epsilon, or delta subunit dramatically reduces and augments the GABA-enhancing actions of the steroid, respectively. These findings provide evidence that 5alpha,3alpha discriminates amongst recombinant receptors of varied subunit composition. Furthermore, this selectivity may contribute to their neuronal specificity and behavioural profile.
In a recent study we have provided evidence that inhibition of native GABA(A) receptors by zinc depends primarily on the allosteric modulation of receptor gating. Both the kinetics and the sensitivity of the GABA(A) receptor to zinc depend on subunit composition, especially on the presence of the gamma(2) subunit. To analyze the mechanism of action of zinc its effects have been tested on recombinant alpha(1)beta(2)gamma(2) and alpha(1)beta(2) receptors expressed in HEK 293 cells. The currents produced by ultrafast application of GABA have been measured to assess the impact of zinc ions on GABA(A) receptor gating with resolution corresponding to the time scale of synaptic currents. While, as expected, zinc markedly reduced the peak amplitude of alpha(1)beta(2)-mediated currents, its effect on kinetics was significantly different from that observed for alpha(1)beta(2)gamma(2). In particular, unlike alpha(1)beta(2)gamma(2), zinc did not affect the onset of alpha(1)beta(2)-mediated responses. Moreover, zinc increased the extent of desensitisation of alpha(1)beta(2)gamma(2) receptors and reduced desensitisation of alpha(1)beta(2) ones. Quantitative analysis suggests that zinc exerts an allosteric modulation on both alpha(1)beta(2)gamma(2) and alpha(1)beta(2) receptors. Zinc effects on alpha(1)beta(2)gamma(2) were qualitatively similar to those reported for native receptors.
Our earlier studies demonstrated that in the hippocampus, cannabinoids suppress inhibitory synaptic transmission via CB(1) cannabinoid receptors, whereas a novel cannabinoid-sensitive receptor modulates excitatory synapses (Katona, I. et al., Journal of Neuroscience 19 (1999) 4544; Hjos, N. et al., European Journal of Neuroscience 12 (2000) 3239; Hjos, N. et al., Neuroscience 106 (2001) 1). The novel receptor does not correspond to CB(2), since this receptor type is not expressed in the brain (Munro, S. et al., Nature 365 (1993) 61). Recent binding experiments revealed that the synthetic cannabinoid WIN 55,212-2 binds with lower affinity to brain membranes of CB(1) receptor-knockout mice indicating that pharmacological differences exist between these two types of cannabinoid receptors in the hippocampus (Breivogel et al., Molecular Pharmacology 60 (2001) 155). To analyze this difference in detail, we first determined the EC(50) values of WIN 55,212-2 for excitatory and inhibitory transmission in rat hippocampal slices using whole-cell patch-clamp recordings. The estimated EC(50) value for inhibitory postsynaptic currents (IPSC) evoked by electrical stimulation in CA1 pyramidal cells was 0.24 microM, whereas for excitatory postsynaptic currents (EPSC) it was 2.01 microM, respectively. The cannabinoid antagonist, AM251, blocked the WIN 55,212-2-induced inhibition of evoked IPSCs, but not of EPSCs, providing evidence for its selectivity for CB(1). We then tested the hypothesis of whether the cannabinoid effect on hippocampal excitatory neurotransmission is mediated via receptors with an affinity for vanilloid ligands. Co-application of the vanilloid receptor antagonist capsazepine (10 microM) with cannabinoids (WIN55,212-2 or CP55,940) prevented the reduction of EPSCs, but not of IPSCs. The amplitude of evoked EPSCs was also suppressed by superfusion of the vanilloid receptor agonist capsaicin (10 microM), an effect which could also be antagonized by capsazepine. In contrast, capsaicin did not change the amplitude of evoked IPSCs. These results demonstrate that WIN 55,212-2 is an order of magnitude more potent in reducing GABAergic currents via CB(1) than in inhibiting glutamatergic transmission via the new CB receptor. The sensitivity of the new CB receptor (and EPSCs) to vanilloid ligands, but not to the cannabinoid antagonist AM251, represents another pharmacological tool to distinguish the two receptors, since CB(1) (and its effect on IPSCs) is not modulated by vanilloids, but is antagonized by AM251.
GABA(A) receptor alpha subunit subtypes have distinct CNS distributions and confer different pharmacological and biophysical properties to alphabetagamma receptor isoforms. However, the alpha subtype-dependent properties of alphabetadelta receptor isoforms that may be targeted to extrasynaptic sites remain poorly understood. We investigated the properties of alpha1beta3delta and alpha6beta3delta receptor currents evoked by concentration jumps using a saturating GABA concentration (1 mM). alpha1beta3delta receptor currents desensitized slowly, deactivated rapidly and displayed voltage-dependence only of peak amplitude. In contrast, alpha6beta3delta receptor currents had voltage-dependent increased desensitization and slower deactivation, but did not show rectification. The neurosteroid THDOC (1 microM) enhanced alpha1beta3delta more than alpha6beta3delta currents, but increased the extent of desensitization and prolonged deactivation for both receptor isoforms. alpha1-alpha6 and alpha6-alpha1 chimeras (spliced in transmembrane domain 1) suggested that differences in deactivation rate and its voltage-dependence correlated with N-terminal domains, while the extent of desensitization and its voltage-dependence correlated with C-terminal domains. Both chimeras showed outward rectification. alpha1 subunit-like THDOC enhancement was observed with the alpha1-alpha6 chimera, but the alpha6-alpha1 chimera did not confer alpha6 subunit-like enhancement, suggesting that multiple alpha1 subunit domains contributed to neurosteroid efficacy. Thus, alpha subunit subtypes may regulate the kinetic and pharmacological properties of tonic neuronal inhibition.
Previously we have reported that astrocytes deprived of glucose were highly vulnerable to peroxynitrite (Choi and Kim, J. Neurosci. Res. 54 (1998) 870; Neurosci. Lett. 256 (1988) 109; Ju et al., J. Neurochem. 74 (2000) 1989). Here we report that ciclopirox, which is clinically used as an anti-fungal agent, completely prevents the increased death in glucose-deprived astrocytes exposed to 3-morpholinosydnonimine (SIN-1, a peroxynitrite-releasing reagent). The increased vulnerability was in good correlation with the peroxynitrite-evoked decrease of mitochondrial transmembrane potential (MTP) in astrocytes. A simultaneous exposure to glucose deprivation and SIN-1 rapidly depolarized MTP and depleted ATP in astrocytes. Inclusion of ciclopirox initially increased the MTP, maintained it high, and blocked the ATP depletion in glucose-deprived SIN-1-treated astrocytes. However, ciclopirox did not prevent the depletion of reduced glutathione in glucose-deprived SIN-1-treated astrocytes. Consistently, ciclopirox did not scavenge various kinds of oxidants including peroxynitrite, nitric oxide, superoxide anion, hydrogen peroxide and hydroxyl radical. Ciclopirox has been experimentally used as a cell cycle G1/S phase transition blocker (Hoffman et al., Cytometry 12 (1991) 26). Flow cytometry analysis, however, showed that the cytoprotective effect of ciclopirox was not attributed to its inhibition of the cell cycle progression. The present results indicate that ciclopirox protects astrocytes from peroxynitrite cytotoxicity by attenuating peroxynitrite-induced mitochondrial dysfunction.
Atypical antipsychotic drugs, such as clozapine, show many differences in their actions as compared to typical antipsychotic drugs, such as haloperidol. In particular, the neuroanatomical substrates responsible for the superior therapeutic profile of clozapine are unknown. In order to identify regions of the CNS which are affected either differentially or in parallel by clozapine and haloperidol, we have used 2-deoxyglucose autoradiography to monitor local cerebral glucose utilisation (LCGU), in parallel with in situ hybridisation to monitor the expression of five immediate-early genes (c-fos, fos B, fra 1, fra 2 and zif 268). Clozapine (20 mg/kg i.p.) caused a reduction in LCGU in many areas of the psychosis-related corticolimbothalamic and Papez circuits, such as the anterior cingulate and retrosplenial cortices and the mammillary body. Haloperidol (1 mg/kg i.p.) showed less ability to modulate LCGU in these regions. Clozapine also increased immediate-early gene expression in these limbic circuits, although the pattern of induction was different for each gene, and also differed from the pattern of effects on LCGU. The only region which displayed similar effects with both antipsychotics was the anteroventral thalamus, with LCGU and c-fos mRNA expression being altered similarly by both drugs. This further supports the hypothesis of the thalamus being a common site of antipsychotic action. Since the Papez circuit has been implicated in emotive learning, and to be involved in mediating the negative symptoms associated with schizophrenia, the greater action of clozapine on regions within this circuit may also provide clues to the atypical antipsychotic's superior efficacy against negative symptoms. This is one of the first studies which provides a direct comparison of regional activity as assessed by LCGU and by a panel of IEGs. The results emphasise the necessity of monitoring a number of different parameters of regional activity in order to identity the neuroanatomical substrate for actions of a drug in the CNS.
Previous studies have shown that the monoamine oxidase inhibitor (MAOI) clorgyline, blocks locomotor sensitization to the D(2)/D(3) dopamine agonist quinpirole and sensitizes self-directed mouthing behavior in rats by a mechanism independent of MAO inhibition. However, clorgyline is also an inhibitor of striatal dopamine uptake, and this mechanism could account for the effect of clorgyline on quinpirole sensitization. To investigate this possibility, the effects of clorgyline and pargyline were examined. Of these two MAOIs, only clorgyline inhibits dopamine uptake in the striatum. Rats received subcutaneous injections of clorgyline (1 mg/kg), pargyline (10 mg/kg) or vehicle 90 min prior to each injection of quinpirole (0.5 mg/kg, s.c., x8, twice weekly) or saline. Clorgyline and pargyline blocked the development of quinpirole-induced locomotor sensitization and sensitized self-directed mouthing behaviors in quinpirole rats. Thus, it is unlikely that clorgyline blocks locomotor sensitization to quinpirole via an inhibition of striatal dopamine uptake. Both MAOIs increased dopamine metabolism in the striatum, showed opposite effects in the prefrontal cortex, and eliminated the correlation between prefrontal dopamine and striatal DOPAC content found in quinpirole sensitized rats. We suggest that clorgyline and pargyline may affect the behavioral and neurochemical response to quinpirole via a previously reported MAOI-displaceable quinpirole binding site, a site which we hypothesize serves as a 'switch' to select what motor output becomes sensitized to repeated injections of quinpirole.
Acetyl-L-carnitine (ALCAR) is the acetyl ester of carnitine that has been reported to be beneficial in depressive disorders and Alzheimer's disease. A 7-day administration of ALCAR in rats increased dopamine and serotonin output in the nucleus accumbens shell and it prevented the development of escape deficit produced by acute exposure to unavoidable stress. No tolerance developed to this protective effect, which appeared to be mediated by (1) the activation of 5-HT(1A) receptors, as it was antagonized by the administration of WAY100635 30 min before stress exposure; and (2) a process of neuronal plasticity dependent on NMDA receptor activity, as subcutaneous dizocilpine infusion during ALCAR treatment prevented the development of the protective effect on stress. Chronic stress exposure maintains an escape deficit condition that is reverted by a long-term treatment with antidepressants, but the same condition was not modified by long-term ALCAR administration. Thus, ALCAR cannot be defined as an antidepressant.
WKHA rats constitute a recombinant inbred rat strain derived by phenotypic selection of the progeny of hybrid F2 crosses between SHR and WKY rats. WKHA are normotensive and show some features of hyperactivity and of hyper-reactivity to stress, but their utility as model of attention deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) has not yet been settled. To address these questions, we performed behavioral and neurochemical evaluations of WKHA, and compared them to both WKY and Wistar (WIS) rats. In locomotor activity tests, the respective scores for each strain were WKY&lt;WKHA&lt;WIS. The relative amplitudes of the inhibition of the startle response by preexposure of the animals to a low-level acoustic cue (prepulse inhibition (PPI) stimulus filtering test) were WKY&lt; WKHA = WIS. In nontreated rats, prepulse inhibition was significantly lower in WKY than in WIS and WKHA rats at low prepulse intensity. Methylphenidate did not decrease locomotor activity in any of the strains, but rather increased locomotion, with the effect being of higher amplitude in WKY. Methylphenidate also impaired prepulse inhibition in a dose-dependent manner. In situ hybridization for NGFI-B, a transcription factor related to the dopaminergic system, revealed that methylphenidate increased the expression of NGFI-B mRNA in the accumbens (core/shell) and striatum only in WKY rats. We conclude that: (1) the behavioral differences between WKY and WKHA can be more readily explained by deficits present in WKY than by unusual characteristics of WKHA, (2) the WKHA does not appear to represent a useful model of ADHD, and (3) the use of WKY rats as the only control for behavioral studies is potentially misleading, because they show a combination of behavioral and neurochemical (dopamine-related) characteristics that make them very different from other common rat strains. Although these characteristics may make them interesting models in their own right, it also follows that the conclusions of any study based on comparisons of one particular strain to just WKY should be interpreted very cautiously.
Neurochemical, molecular, immunohistochemical and behavioral methods were used to examine the in vivo effects of the neuropeptide galanin on central 5-HT neurotransmission and on 5-HT(1A) receptor-mediated responses. Intraventricularly infused galanin caused a long-lasting and dose-dependent reduction of basal extracellular 5-HT levels in the ventral hippocampus of awake rats as measured by microdialysis. Infusion of galanin into the dorsal raphe nucleus (DRN), but not intra-hippocampally, reduced 5-HT release. The effect of i.c.v. galanin on 5-HT release was blocked by the galanin receptor antagonist M35, acting most likely via galanin receptors at the level of the DRN. Galanin also reduced the levels of tryptophanhydroxylase mRNA in the DRN. Therefore, the effects of galanin on 5-HT(1A) receptor-mediated responses were further investigated. Surprisingly, galanin significantly attenuated the reduction of hippocampal 5-HT release induced by systemic injection of the 5-HT(1A) receptor agonist 8-OH-DPAT. Galanin also attenuated 8-OH-DPAT-induced hypothermia and locomotor activity in rats. These results indicate that galanin has important inhibitory actions on central 5-HT neurotransmission and on 5-HT(1A) receptor-mediated events.
The entorhinal and perirhinal cortices, the hippocampus and the amygdala are heavily interconnected limbic structures that are implicated in memory, and under pathological conditions, in seizure generation and propagation of temporal lobe epilepsy. In-vitro coronal preparations have been limited by the anatomical disposition of these structures. Here we describe a modified horizontal slice preparation that includes all these structures in the same plane. To evaluate whether axonal connectivities are preserved, fluorescent tracers were used. Most of the connections known from in-vivo studies within and between the entorhinal and perirhinal cortices, the amygdala (basolateral nucleus, lateral nucleus, and amygdalopiriform transition area) and the hippocampus were preserved in the 400 microm-thick horizontal slices employed.
We examined the effects of cutaneous noxious heat as well as the intrathecal administration of morphine on the oxidation current of peaks 1 and 2 in the dorsal raphe nucleus (DRN) of anesthetized rats. Differential normal pulse voltammetry with carbon fiber electrodes identified distinct oxidation currents at +120 mV (peak 1: catechol signals) and +280 mV (peak 2: 5-hydroxyindole signals). The catechol signal was significantly increased by 22.9 +/- 4.2% after applying cutaneous noxious heat at 52 degrees C. The 5-hydroxyindole signal was decreased by 39.8 +/- 4.3 and by 25.2 +/- 4.7% after stimulation with cutaneous noxious heat at 52 and 45 degrees C, respectively. A low dose of morphine (2.5 microg) potentiated the increase in the catechol signal and the decrease in the 5-hydroxyindole signal induced by noxious heat, and a high dose (10.0 microg) attenuated both. The effects of morphine at low (2.5 microg) and high doses (10.0 microg) were antagonized by naloxone (0.5 mg/kg, i.p.). These results indicate that noxious heat stimulation increased the catechol signal and decreased the 5-hydroxyindole signal in the DRN. The intrathecal administration of morphine affects the noxious stimulation-induced activity of noradrenergic and serotonergic neurotransmission in the DRN.
To develop a therapeutic intervention for Alzheimer's disease (AD), it is necessary to clarify the mechanisms underlying the pathogenesis of AD, in which senile plaques, neurofibrillary tangles and neuronal loss in the cerebrum are the central abnormalities. A number of studies have focused on the major component of the senile plaques, which is amyloid-beta (Abeta) and its precursor protein APP, and have investigated the roles of these molecules in the onset, progression and inhibition of AD. For multiple reasons, however, their roles in AD, especially in neuronal death, remain elusive and a unified concept for their roles has not yet been established. Recently, it has been found that APP functions normally as a neuronal surface transmembrane protein. In this article, we review the molecular mechanisms of neuronal cell death by these APP-relevant insults and discuss the functions of APP in regard to intracellular signal transducers, including c-Jun N-terminal kinase. We also revise the roles of Abeta in neuronal death and survival.



A 5-year-old boy had periodic spasms and startle-induced drop attacks. Zonisamide (ZNS) was partially effective for the former seizures, and propranolol for the latter. An add-on therapy with ACTH resulted in a transient disappearance of seizures and an improvement of EEG. However, the patient developed urolithiasis with resultant hematuria and pyelectasis during ACTH therapy. ZNS can induce urolithiasis by increasing urinary pH and calcium (Ca) excretion, and ACTH may facilitate this rare adverse effect of ZNS by further increasing the urinary Ca. Hydrochlorothiazide could resolve the urolithiasis by decreasing the urinary Ca excretion.

This article briefly reviews the impact of hormones on cognition. Estrogen has the most profound impact on brain functioning. Testosterone also seems to have significant brain-related benefits, whereas progesterone seems to have minor or possibly even adverse effects. As the field of neuroscience progresses, more definitive conclusions will follow. As the focus is shifted, however, from extending life to improving the quality of life, the existing data are very compelling. The brain is a target for the sex steroid hormones. Clearly, this is an exciting and dynamic area for further study. Although skeptics may believe that more definitive proof is necessary before recommending hormone replacement for their patients to preserve their cognitive health, it seems prudent to discuss the evidence available to empower the patient further to guide their own treatment options and validate their symptoms. For those who still subscribe to the menopause-is-natural philosophy this question is posed, &quot;why does the brain naturally have sex hormone receptors if they are not necessary?&quot;
Vigabatrin is a GABA (gamma-aminobutyric acid) transaminase inhibitor that elicits an antiepileptic effect by enhancing inhibitory neurotransmission in the brain. Vigabatrin has been previously associated with concentric peripheral visual field loss and visual electrophysiological abnormalities. Recently, visual function deficits of the central retina have been identified in a proportion of patients receiving vigabatrin; these include disturbances in colour perception, contrast sensitivity and short-wavelength automated perimetry. Consequently, it is suggested that vigabatrin-associated retinal toxicity is diffuse inducing subtle central visual dysfunction and more severe peripheral visual defects. Reductions in cerebral blood flow and cerebral metabolic rate for glucose occur in epilepsy patients receiving antiepileptic drug therapy. Despite the known cerebral haemodynamic alterations in epilepsy and the visual consequences of vigabatrin therapy, ocular blood flow has only recently been investigated in this group. We present findings from a series of novel investigations that identify compromised retinal microvascular perfusion and pulsatile ocular blood flow (POBF) in epilepsy patients. The reduction in POBF was exacerbated in epilepsy patients treated with vigabatrin compared to conventionally treated epilepsy patients. A number of theories are presented to explain compromised ocular blood flow in vigabatrin treated epilepsy patients, and the possibility of a GABAergic mechanism of toxicity is discussed.
Conspicuity refers to the visibility of objects that are either close to threshold or viewed in a cluttered environment. Conventional, threshold-based tests of vision are unlikely to be related to target visibility, because visual systems behave differently under supra-threshold and close-to-threshold conditions, or when low luminance levels are used. In these experiments, Reaction Times (RTs) are tested under a wide range of contrasts, luminances and spatial frequencies commonly encountered in the real world. We show that RTs are closely related to sensitivity and can therefore provide a method of measuring supra-threshold visual performance. The data are interpreted in terms of visual performance when driving, where a reduction in target visibility leads to increases in processing time.
It has long been sought to measure ocular accommodation continuously in human factor applications such as driving or flying. Open-field autorefractors such as the Canon R-1 could be converted to allow continuous, objective recording, but steady eye fixation and head immobilisation were essential for the measurements to be valid. Image analysis techniques utilised by newer open-view autorefractors such as the Shin-Nippon SRW-5000 are more tolerant to head and eye movements, but perhaps the technique with the greatest potential for the measurement of accommodation in human factor applications is photoretinoscopy. This paper examines the development of techniques for high temporal measurements of accommodation and reports on the tolerance of one such recent commercial instrument, the PowerRefractor (PlusOptiX). The instrument was found to be tolerant to eye movements from the optical axis of the instrument (approximately 0.50 DS change in apparent accommodation with gaze 25 degrees eccentric to the optical axis), longitudinal head movement (&lt;0.25 DS from 8 cm towards and 20 cm away from the correct photorefractor to eye distance) and changes in background illuminance (&lt;0.25 DS from 0.5 to 20 cd m(-2) target luminance). The PowerRefractor also quantifies the direction of gaze and pupil size, but is unable to take measurements with small pupils &lt;3.7 +/- 1.0 mm.
Autonomic innervation of ciliary smooth muscle is mediated principally by the parasympathetic nervous system and is supplemented by the sympathetic nervous system. Previous drug and nerve stimulation experiments on humans and animals have demonstrated that sympathetic innervation is inhibitory (via beta-2 adrenoceptors), relatively small, slow and augmented by concurrent levels of background parasympathetic activity. These characteristics are pertinent to the sympathetic system having a specific role in our ability to adapt successfully to sustained near vision tasks and, given the clear association between near vision and the onset and development of myopia, to a putative aetiological role in myopia development in pre-disposed individuals. A fifth characteristic, namely the variation between individuals in access to an inhibitory sympathetic facility is therefore of particular interest. A novel method for continuous recording of accommodation, currently employed in a large sample longitudinal study of myopia in young adults, was used following topical instillation of non-selective (timolol) and selective (betaxolol) sympathetic beta-adrenoceptor antagonists. Measures of post-task accommodative hysteresis were taken with reference to the time-course of regression of accommodation when open-loop (Difference of Gaussian) conditions were immediately imposed following short (10 s) and long (3 min) duration far (0D) and near (3D above tonic level) tasks viewed through a Badal system. Data confirm earlier informal experimental observations that only one in three individuals are likely to have access to a sympathetic inhibitory facility during sustained near vision.
Pain is processed in multiple cortical and subcortical brain areas. Subcortical structures are substantially involved in different processes that are closely linked to pain processing, e.g. motor preparation, autonomic responses, affective components and learning. However, it is unclear to which extent nociceptive information is relayed to and processed in subcortical structures. We used single-trial functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) to identify subcortical regions displaying hemodynamic responses to painful stimulation. Thulium-YAG (yttrium-aluminum-granate) laser evoked pain stimuli, which have no concomitant tactile component, were applied to either hand of healthy volunteers in a randomized order. This procedure allowed identification of areas displaying differential fMRI responses to right- and left-sided stimuli. Hippocampal complex, amygdala, red nucleus, brainstem and cerebellum were activated in response to painful stimuli. Structures related to the affective processing of pain showed bilateral activation, whereas structures involved in the generation of withdrawal behavior, namely red nucleus, putamen and cerebellum displayed differential (i.e. asymmetric) responses according to the side of stimulation. This suggests that spatial information about the nociceptive stimulus is made available in these structures for the guidance of defensive and withdrawal behavior.
A variety of molecules released by inflammatory reactions in the dorsal root and dorsal root ganglion (DRG) may play important roles in the pathology of neuronal abnormalities in lumbar disc herniation. In order to elucidate the pathophysiological mechanisms of painful radiculopathy, secondary to lumbar disc herniation, we evaluated pain-related behavior and the change of nerve growth factor (NGF) and brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) expression in the DRG and dorsal root using a rat model of lumbar disc herniation. In the nucleus pulposus (NP) group, the left L4/5 nerve roots were exposed after hemilaminectomies and autologous intervertebral discs, which were obtained from coccygeal intervertebral discs, were implanted on each of the exposed nerve roots without mechanical compression. Rats in the NP group, but not the sham-operated rats, developed mechanical allodynia on the ipsilateral hind paw for 1 day after surgery and showed a significant increase in the number of NGF-immunoreactive (IR) cells in the nerve root and DRG. NGF-IR cells in the nerve root and DRG included macrophages and Schwann cells, because these cells were labeled for NGF and ED-1 or glial fibrillary acid protein by dual immunostaining. A significant increase in the percentage of BDNF-IR neurons in the DRG was observed in the NP group at 3 days after surgery and the increase in BDNF mRNA expression was confirmed using in situ hybridization histochemistry and reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction. We also injected NGF into the endoneurial space of the normal rat spinal nerve root and found that the NGF injection produced dose-dependent mechanical allodynia on the ipsilateral hind paw at 1 day after surgery and an increase in the percentage of BDNF-IR neurons in the DRG at 3 days after surgery compared to the group receiving saline injection. These findings suggest that in the lumbar disc herniation model, i.e. neuritis of the nerve root, increased NGF produced by the inflammatory responses in the dorsal root and DRG tissues may affect the production of BDNF in the DRG and may play important roles in the modulation of the dorsal horn neurons. These changes in neurotrophic factors in the primary afferents may be involved in the pathophysiological mechanisms of neuropathic pain produced by lumbar disc herniation.
We investigated the expression of two candidate transducers of noxious stimuli in peripheral tissues, the vanilloid receptor subtype 1 (VR1) and the P2X(3), a subunit of the ionotropic P2X receptor for ATP, in spared L4 DRG neurons following L5 spinal nerve ligation, a neuropathic pain model. VR1 mRNA expression increased in the small- and medium-sized DRG neurons from the first to 28th day after injury, and this up-regulation corresponded well with the development and maintenance of thermal hyperalgesia of the hind paw. The increase in VR1-immunoreactive (ir) neurons was confirmed at the third day after surgery. In contrast, there was no change in expression of P2X(3) mRNA over 4 weeks after ligation, or in the percentage of P2X(3)-ir neurons observed 3 days after surgery. Our data suggests that increased VR1 in the spared L4 DRG may contribute to the exaggerated heat response observed in this neuropathic pain model. Taken together with the previous reports that P2X(3) expression increases in the spared DRG neurons in other neuropathic pain models, there appears to be differences in the phenotypic changes and pathomechanisms of the various neuropathic pain models.
Laser evoked potentials (LEPs) are brain responses to activation of skin nociceptors by laser heat stimuli. LEPs consist of three components: N1, N2, and P2. Previous reports have suggested that in contrast to earlier activities (N1), LEPs responses after 230-250 ms (N2-P2) are modulated by attention to painful laser stimuli. However, the experimental paradigms used were not designed to specify the attentional processes involved in these LEP modulations. We investigated the effects of selective spatial attention and oddball tasks on LEPs. CO(2) laser stimuli of two different intensities were delivered on the dorsum of both hands of ten subjects. One intensity was frequently presented, and the other rarely. Subjects were asked to pay attention to stimuli delivered on one hand and to count rare stimuli, while ignoring stimuli on the other hand. Frequent and rare attended stimuli evoked enhanced N160 (N1) and N230 (N2) components in comparison to LEPs from unattended stimuli. Both components showed scalp distribution contralateral to the stimulus location. The vertex P400 (P2) was unaffected by spatial attention and stimulus location, but its amplitude increased after rare stimuli, whether attended or unattended. An additional parietal P600 component was induced by the attended rare stimuli. It is suggested that several attentional processes can modify nociceptive processing in the brain at different stages. LEP activities in the time-range of N1 and N2 (120-270 ms) showed evidence of processes modulated by the direction of spatial attention. Conversely, processes underlying P2 (400 ms) were not affected by spatial attention, but by the probability of the stimulus. This probability effect was not due to P3b-related processes that were observed at a later latency (600 ms). Indeed, P600 could be seen as a P3b evoked by conscious detection of rare targets.
Extracellular adenosine triphosphate (ATP), acting at P2X ionotropic receptors, is implicated in numerous sensory processes. Exogenous ATP has been shown to be algogenic in both animals and humans. Research focus has been directed towards the P2X(3) receptor, as it is preferentially expressed on nociceptive C-fibers and its implication in pain processing is supported by an altered nociceptive phenotype in P2X(3) knock-out mice. In order to further characterize the role of P2X(3) receptor activation in nociception, we evaluated the effects of continuous intrathecal administration of P2X(3) antisense oligonucleotides for 7 days in the rat. P2X(3) receptor antisense oligonucleotide treatment significantly decreased nociceptive behaviors observed after injection of complete Freund's adjuvant (CFA), formalin or alphabeta-methylene ATP into the rat's hind paw. The anti-hyperalgesic effects of the antisense treatment in the CFA model of inflammatory pain were dose related. Similar effects were observed with two distinct P2X(3) antisense oligonucleotides. These behavioral effects were significantly correlated with a decrease in P2X(3) receptor protein expression in the dorsal root ganglia (DRG). In contrast, a decrease in P2X(3) receptor protein expression in the DRG did not affect nociceptive behavior in the carrageenan model of acute thermal hyperalgesia. P2X(3) receptor antisense oligonucleotide treatment also significantly reduced mechanical allodynia observed after spinal nerve ligation. Overall, the present data demonstrate that activation of P2X(3) receptors contribute to the expression of chronic inflammatory and neuropathic pain states and that relief form these forms of chronic pain might be achieved by selective blockade of P2X(3 )receptor expression or activation.
Although orexin was found to promote food intake, recent reports proposed its involvement in the regulation of vigilance. To study the mechanism of how orexin affects arousal, we analyzed glutamate (GLU) release from the locus coeruleus (LC) in rats after systemic injection of orexin-A. Baseline levels of orexin-A in the LC were significantly higher during the dark period than the light period. Intravenous administration of orexin-A increased GLU levels as well as orexin in the LC, simultaneously promoting wakefulness. These results suggest that increases in GLU release may reflect the arousal-inducing effects of orexin.
The effects of selective mGluR1 and mGluR5 antagonists on long-term acquisition were tested in a spatial three-choice reward-finding test. Bilateral prelimbic injections of the mGluR1 antagonist, (S)-4-carboxyphenylglycine (4-CPG), before training sessions blocked acquisition of correct performance between sessions. Similar injections given after full training of a control group significantly impaired correct performance without causing a complete block. Pretraining injections (intraperitoneal or intravenous) of the systemically active mGluR5 antagonist, 2-methyl-6-(phenylethynyl)pyridine (MPEP), had no effect on long-term acquisition in the reward-finding task. In an open-field test, bilateral prelimbic pretest application of 4-CPG prevented normal adaptation of spontaneous exploration as seen in control animals. MPEP, on the other hand, had no effect. In conclusion, the results confirmed that mGluR1 is involved in spatial long-term acquisition and suggested an additional role in recall of acquired skills. Furthermore, it was concluded that antagonism of mGluR1 or mGluR5 had different effects both in the appetitive spatial task and in the open-field test.
The fear-potentiated startle paradigm has been characterized for drugs that act via ionotropic (NMDA and AMPA/kainate receptor) glutamate receptor mechanisms. Previous studies have shown that the potent systemically active mGlu2/3 receptor agonist, LY354740, effectively reduced the expression of fear-potentiated startle responses in rats. The present study examined the effects of LY354740 in a pre- versus post-fear conditioning paradigm and compared the effects to diazepam. Diazepam (0.3, 0.6, and 1.0 mg/kg ip) attenuated both pre- and post-fear conditioning startle responses in a dose-related manner. In contrast, LY354740 (0.03, 0.3, and 3.0 mg/kg ip) did not disrupt preconditioning startle responses at doses that attenuated post-fear conditioning responses. The benzodiazepine antagonist, flumazenil, at a dose (2 mg/kg sc) that did not alter fear-potentiated startle per se, selectively reversed suppression of fear responses to diazepam (0.6 mg/kg ip) while not affecting fear suppression induced by LY354740 (0.3 mg/kg ip). At a dose of 1 mg/kg ip, the mGlu2/3 receptor antagonist, LY341495, did not disrupt fear-enhanced startle per se, but completely reversed the postconditioning anxiolytic effects of LY354740 in this model. This dose of LY341495 had no effect on fear suppression by diazepam. These results demonstrate that fear suppression by diazepam and LY354740 involves different neuronal mechanisms. While diazepam acts via the facilitation of GABAergic transmission, LY354740 induces its actions via the glutamatergic system, specifically mGlu2/3 receptor activation. Furthermore, in contrast to disruption of fear conditioning as well as fear suppression by diazepam, LY354740 had selective effects on fear expression, suggesting anxiolytic actions without the associated memory impairment.
Previous work has shown that mGlu2/3 receptor agonists such as LY379268 inhibit motor responses to acutely administered phencyclidine (PCP) in rats. However, it has not been determined whether mGlu2/3 receptor agonists will reverse the enhanced effects of repeatedly administered PCP (so called PCP sensitization). In these studies, rats were administered daily PCP and monitored for the number of ambulations, fine movements, time at rest and rears using an automated activity system. At Day 10, when compared the first (Day 1) response, PCP-treated animals showed enhanced responses to all measures tested. Augmentations of these PCP-induced behaviors generally peaked between the third and tenth day after PCP administration had begun. Acute administration of LY379268 effectively suppressed PCP-evoked motor behaviors in rats sensitized to PCP. However, daily administrations of LY379268 (for 9 days), along with PCP, did not prevent the expression of the enhanced PCP response on Day 10. Thus, LY379268 administration can suppress PCP responses after either acute or chronic exposure to PCP. However, the underlying plasticity that leads to PCP sensitization was not affected by this treatment.
Signal transmission in the brain is regulated by a number of filters and modulatory systems. In particular, theta rhythm modulates local inhibition of networks and facilitates the induction of synaptic plastic processes. Additionally, the transmission of spikes in the network is controlled by pulse facilitation as a noise filter. Metabotropic glutamate receptors (mGluRs) that are found on interneurons in area CA1 of the hippocampus play a role in the fine-tuning of inhibitory circuits and in the transmission of spikes through the network. It was found that the mGluR agonist 1S,3S-1-amino-cyclo-pentyl-1,3-dicarboxylic acid (1S,3S-ACPD) blocked the induction of long-term potentiation (LTP) by high-frequency stimulation (HFS). In addition, theta-patterned stimulation was blocked by the drug. However, learning of spatial tasks in the water maze or radial arm maze was not inhibited by 1S,3S-ACPD. Yet, when stimulating with short bursts phase-locked with theta rhythm at the low inhibition phase, 1S,3S-ACPD did not inhibit the development of LTP. This suggests that burst transmission is not blocked in the network, while high-frequency trains are reduced to prevent overexcitation and the transmission of nonphysiologic stimuli patterns.
Neuronal stretching in culture has been used to model diffuse axonal injury caused by head trauma, and activation of N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors (NMDARs) has been implicated in the pathophysiology of such injury. Here we report the effects of modulating injury severity and the metabotropic glutamate receptor subtype 5 (mGluR5) on NMDAR activity after stretch injury. Following mild stretch, cortical neurons plated upon a confluent layer of astrocytes (NG) exhibited both increased maximal current (I(NMDA)) and reduction in the voltage-dependent Mg2+ block. In contrast, neurons grown without an astrocyte monolayer (PN) only exhibited increased I(NMDA). In NG, surprisingly, pretreatment with either the mGluR5 agonist CHPG or the mGluR5 antagonist MPEP decreased the enhancement of I(NMDA). In contrast, in PN, MPEP similarly limited I(NMDA) changes, but CHPG was without effect. In both culture conditions, MPEP, but not CHPG, limited the stretch-reduced Mg2+ block. Severe stretch had no effect on I(NMDA) or the Mg2+ block in either culture condition, despite a correlation between injury severity and the release of lactose dehydrogenase measured postinjury. Neither CHPG nor MPEP had any direct effects upon the NMDA receptor. We conclude that mGluR5 regulates NMDAR activity during mild stretch injury, but not severe injury, by modulating both the Mg2+ block and I(NMDA).
Alzheimer's disease (AD) is the most common cause of dementia that arises on a neuropathological background of amyloid plaques containing beta-amyloid (A beta) derived from amyloid precursor protein (APP) and tau-rich neurofibrillary tangles. To date, the cause and progression of both familial and sporadic AD have not been fully elucidated. The autosomal-dominant inherited forms of early-onset Alzheimer's disease are caused by mutations in the genes encoding APP, presenilin-1 (chromosome 14), and presenilin-2 (chromosome 1). APP is processed by several different proteases such as secretases and/or caspases to yield A beta and carboxyl-terminal fragments, which have been implicated in the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease. Alzheimer's disease and Parkinson's disease are associated with the cerebral accumulation of A beta and alpha-synuclein, respectively. Some patients have clinical and pathological features of both diseases, raising the possibility of overlapping pathogenic pathways. Recent studies have strongly suggested the possible pathogenic interactions between A beta, presenilins, and/or alpha-synuclein. Therefore, treatments that block the accumulation of A beta and alpha-synuclein might benefit a broad spectrum of neurodegenerative disorders. This review covers the trafficking and processing of APP, amyloid cascade hypothesis in AD pathogenesis, physiological and pathological roles of presenilins, molecular characteristics of alpha-synuclein, their interactions, and therapeutic strategies for AD.
The present study was carried out to investigate the contribution of angiotensinergic and catecholaminergic systems in the median preoptic nucleus (MnPO) to the drinking response elicited by activation of the subfornical organ (SFO) following injections of angiotensin II (ANG II) in the awake unrestrained rat. Microinjection of ANG II into the SFO caused the drinking response. The water intake caused by ANG II injected into the SFO was significantly enhanced by previous injections of phenylephrine, an alpha-adrenoceptor agonist, but not by isoprenaline, a beta-adrenoceptor agonist. Previous injections of either saralasin, a specific ANG II antagonist, or phentolamine, an alpha-adrenoceptor antagonist, into the MnPO significantly attenuated the water intake caused by the ANG II injection into the SFO. Similar injections of timolol, a beta-adrenoceptor antagonist, or the vehicle into the MnPO had no significant effect on the drinking response. These results show the involvement of both angiotensinergic and alpha-adrenergic systems in the MnPO in the drinking response induced by ANG II acting at the SFO, and imply that the alpha-adrenergic system may serve to enhance the neural inputs including the angiotensinergic inputs from the SFO, thereby causing increased dipsogenic response.
Dieting and stress are important in the etiology and maintenance of eating disorders, and dieting strongly predicts stress-induced overeating in humans. We hypothesized that caloric restriction and stress interact in a unique manner to promote binge eating. To test this hypothesis, a group of young female rats were cycled through a restriction period (4 days of 66% of control food intake) followed by 6 days of free feeding prior to being stressed by acute foot shock. After three of these cycles, the food intake of rats exposed only to restriction (R), or only to stress (S), did not differ from controls. However, R+S rats that were restricted and refed, despite normal body weight and food intake after free feeding, engaged in a powerful bout of hyperphagia when stressed (Experiment 1). The R + S effect was replicated in an older group of rats (Experiment 2). The hyperphagia was characteristically binge-like, it constituted a 40% selective increase in highly palatable (HP) food (P &lt; .001) over a discrete period of time (within 24 h post-stress), and reflected feeding for reward (higher HP:chow ratio) over metabolic need as occurred after restriction (higher chow:HP ratio). Subsequent experiments revealed that binge eating did not occur if only chow was available (Experiment 3) or if restriction-refeeding (R-R) did not proximally precede stress (Experiment 4). Experiment 5 revealed that a history of R-R cycles followed by only one stress episode was sufficient to increase intake to 53% above controls as early as 2 h after stress (P &lt; .001). This animal model of binge eating should facilitate investigations into the neurochemical changes induced by dieting and environmental stress to produce disordered eating and provide a preclinical tool to test preventive strategies and treatments more relevant to bulimia nervosa, multiple cases of binge eating disorder (BED) and binge-purge type anorexia nervosa.
Platelet-activating factor (PAF) is a potent bioactive lipid that is generated in the cornea after injury and whose actions are mediated through specific receptors. Studies from our laboratory have shown that PAF interactions with its receptor activate several transmembrane signals involved in inflammation, wound healing, and apoptosis. The wide variety of responses to PAF implicate this lipid as a central player in many responses of the cornea after a pathologic stimulus. An exciting facet of PAF is that it induces the expression of specific genes involved in the remodeling of components of the extracellular matrix, such as some metalloproteinases, urokinase plasminogen activator, and selective inhibitors of metalloproteinases. These enzymes, when overexpressed, could lead to corneal ulceration. Continuous exposure to PAF during prolonged inflammation produces increase keratocyte apoptosis and inhibition of epithelial adhesion to the basement membrane. As a consequence, there is a marked delay in wound healing, which is not countered by the actions of growth factors. In this review, we present data mainly from our laboratory showing actions of PAF in corneal epithelium in vivo and in vitro in corneal models of injury as well as in cells in culture. We also discuss the signal-transduction mechanisms involved in the different actions of PAF. A therapeutic role for PAF antagonists in blocking the effects of PAF is guaranteed in the future.
We employed rat pheochromocytoma PC12 cells as our model system to identify cellular proteins that accompany Escherichia coli lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-induced apoptosis, based on a proteomic approach. Cell viability tests revealed that nave PC12 cells underwent cell death in a dose-dependent manner after treatment with LPS. Flow cytometric analysis confirmed that apoptosis was primarily responsible for the observed cell death. Two-dimensional electrophoresis in conjunction with N-terminal sequencing, immunoblot, matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization-time of flight analysis or computer matching with protein databases further revealed that the LPS-induced apoptosis is accompanied by an augmented level of calreticulin, calcium binding protein 50, endoplasmic reticulum protein 60 (ERP60), heat shock protein 60 (HSP60) or HSP90, and a reduced level of amphoterin, cytochrome c oxidase polypeptide VIa-liver or ERP29. These proteins are associated with endoplasmic reticulum, mitochondria or cell membrane, and are with known or potential roles in apoptosis. Their identification therefore provides an impetus for further delineation of the cellular and molecular basis of apoptotic cell death and sepsis based on proteomic profiling of PC12 cells.
Little is known about the relationship between the different categories of basic symptoms (BS). Researchers of the Bonn School have accurately described the progression from second-level BS (relatively characteristic BS) to first-rank Schneiderian symptoms. Using a multiple regression model, the present study tried to investigate which kind of dynamic deficiencies (DDs; uncharacteristic first-level BS) mostly lead to each type of second-level BS. A group of 108 patients with a DSM-III-R diagnosis of schizophrenia completed an inventory on BS, with all items in strict accordance with those of the Bonn Scale. Five dependent variables (cognitive thought disorders, cognitive perception disorders, cognitive action disorders, increased impressionability, cenesthesias) and four independent variables (DDs with direct negative symptoms, DDs with indirect negative symptoms, affective DDs, relational DDs) were considered. Among the significant findings, a widespread contribution of DDs with indirect negative symptoms to most of the dependent variables, and the special role of DDs with direct negative symptoms as a predictor of cognitive thought disorders, must be emphasized. Suggestions for further multivariate studies in the field of BS are presented.


Event-related brain potentials in response to harmonically inappropriate chords were compared for musical experts and novices. Similar to previous studies, these chords elicited an early right anterior negativity (ERAN). The amplitude of the ERAN was clearly larger for musical experts than for novices, presumably because experts had more specific musical expectancies than novices. Chords with a physically deviant timbre elicited a mismatch negativity that did not differentiate the groups, indicating that the larger ERAN in experts was not due to a general enhanced auditory sensitivity. The ERAN reflects fast and automatic neural mechanisms that process complex musical (music-syntactic) irregularities, and the present results indicate that these mechanisms can be modulated by expertise.

Plasma membrane from Xenopus laevis oocytes has been used as a model system to study membrane structure and particle components, including native and exogenously expressed proteins. Previous studies by electron microscopy (EM) and atomic force microscopy (AFM) compared intramembrane particles (IMPs) on uninjected oocyte membranes to oocytes expressing proteins of interest. These studies observed randomly distributed IMPs on the surface of the oocyte plasma membrane. In this paper, we introduce a novel technique to isolate oocyte membranes by bursting the oocyte and depositing its membrane on a flat mica substrate. The flat surface membrane preparation allows high-resolution AFM images to beobtained, revealing a novel structure of densely packed particles. These particles exhibit a regular, repeating pattern of a lattice-like array with orderly packing and are thus termed &quot;lattice-like array particles&quot; (LAPs). The LAPs are orderly yet imperfectly packed, are located in depressed pools, occur with a low frequency on the oocyte membrane surface, and have not previously been seen using other isolation and imaging methods. Histogram analysis of the center-to-center distance between LAPs suggest their size to be about 44 nm in diameter, considerably larger than other reported size estimates of IMPs. These results indicate that LAPs represent a novel membrane particle organization, which merits further study.
5-Hydroxytryptamine (5-HT; serotonin) 5-HT(6) receptors (5-HT(6)R) and 5-HT(7) receptors (5-HT(7)R) have been implicated in schizophrenia and as targets of atypical antipsychotic drugs. We have studied the expression of these receptors in the hippocampal formation and dorsolateral prefrontal cortex (DLPFC) of 17 subjects with schizophrenia and 17 controls using reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) with cyclophilin co-amplification. In schizophrenia, 5-HT(6)R mRNA was decreased in the hippocampal formation, and 5-HT(7)R mRNA was decreased in the dorsolateral prefrontal cortex. The mRNAs were unchanged in rats treated for 2 weeks with haloperidol, chlorpromazine, risperidone, olanzapine or clozapine. Regional decreases in 5-HT(6)R and 5-HT(7)R expression in schizophrenia may contribute to the overall serotonergic alterations which occur in the disorder, in part through their interactions with other neurotransmitter systems including glutamate and acetylcholine.
The masticatory muscles show morphologic, histochemical, electrophysical, and functional features that differ from the other muscles of the body. At least two kinds of masticatory muscle pain should be distinguished: A local pain associated with peripheral mechanical overuse, and a pain associated with changes in the central nociceptive system. Biomechanical factors appear to be important for the first type of muscle pain. Since the typical reaction of a painful muscle consists of inhibition of its activity, traditional concepts that postulate the maintenance of the pain by chronic overuse of the whole muscle are not supported by the current literature. Instead, differential overuse of discrete intramuscular regions appear to provide a more plausible explanation. On the other hand, the possible relationships between functional and structural neuroplastic changes and the second form of chronic muscle pain (e.g., fibromyalgia) still remain speculative.
This open-label, single-site, pilot study evaluated the therapeutic usefulness of topiramate in five children with typical absence seizures defined as loss of awareness associated with 3 Hz spike-wave activity on 24 hour ambulatory electroencephalogram (EEG). The children were previously untreated or treated unsuccessfully using other antiepileptic medication. Topiramate was initiated at a dose of 1 mg x kg (-1)day (-1), titrated twice weekly in 1 mg x kg (-1)day (-1)increments to 12 mg x kg (-1)day (-1)or individual maximally tolerated dose. Response was assessed after 6 weeks with ambulatory EEG monitoring and patient/parent record of seizure counts. All children completed the study. One previously untreated child became seizure-free on 5 mg x kg (-1)day(-1) topiramate, with no residual spike-wave activity at the final visit. In two patients, the frequency of seizures decreased in the early phases of titration, but rose to baseline levels as the topiramate dose was increased. With a reduction in dose to 6 mg x kg (-1)day (-1), seizure control improved, with substantial reductions in spike-wave activity. Seizure counts were not improved in the two remaining patients. Transient mood changes were noted in two patients. No child was withdrawn secondary to adverse effects. The results suggest that topiramate may be effective in childhood absence epilepsy. Controlled studies are now required to identify the clinically optimal dose.


Bogomir Mrshulja was born on September 18th, 1940 in Lendava. He finished both elementary school and high school in Belgrade and subsequently graduated from the School of Medicine, University of Belgrade in 1965. As an undergraduate he was an assistant at the Biochemistry Department and the subject became his profession for life. The University of Belgrade awarded him a scholarship and in 1968 he defended his MSc thesis entitled Glycogen of the Central Nervous System--Methods of Separation, Fraction Isolation, Regional Distribution and Variations in Different Levels of Deprivation of Paradoxical Sleep. Soon after, in 1970, he defended his PhD thesis, as well: Brain Glycogen and Deprivation of Paradoxical Sleep--Biochemical and Pharmacological Aspects of Glycogenolysis. In the period 1973-1975 he spent 18 months in the capacity of a visiting scientist in the Laboratory for Neuropathology and Neuroanatomic Sciences of the National Institute of Health in Bethesda (USA), and again, twelve more months in the same institution (Laboratory for Neurochemistry) in the capacity of a special expert of this institution (1983-84) where he was the chief investigator of neurochemical sequelae of experimental cerebral ischemia. He started his university career as an assistant professor in 1965; he was elected associated professor in 1970, promoted adjunct professor in 1978, while in 1984 he received the full professorship of biochemistry at the School of Medicine, University of Belgrade. In 1970 he was elected research associate of the &quot;Sinisha Stankovitsh&quot; Institute of Biological Research. He was professor of neurochemistry and Head of Department of Neurosciences of the Center for Multidisciplinary Studies, University of Belgrade. He was the Head of the Institute of Biochemistry and Head, Department of Biochemistry and Specialized Courses in Clinical Biochemistry at the School of Medicine, University of Belgrade. Owing to his original hypothesis on mechanisms of the occurrence of ischemic cerebral edema and possible therapeutic approach, Bogomir Mrshulja was frequently invited to lecture in university centers of USA, Canada, Japan, Germany and former USSR. He also participated at over 50 international congresses and symposia worldwide. In the mid seventies, Bogomir Mrshulja started more intensive studies of pathophysiological events in the course of cerebral ischemia and already with his early papers intrigued the professional circles which was reflected in an exceptionally high number of his citations in international scientific and referential literature, including the textbooks. The research activities of Bogomir Mrshulja was impressively fruitful: he published 183 papers in extenso, out of which 42 in books of international publishers and 6 invited review articles. In all these papers he illustrated extensive knowledge, maturity, originality, critical attitude, high level of creativity and, finally, courage to oppose the conventional principles. It should be pointed out that in his works Bogomir Mrshulja tended to draw conclusions that stimulated both himself and his colleagues, researchers in the related fields, insisting on extensive evaluation and testing of hypotheses, which is easily illustrated by the number of citations of his papers. According to the Science Citation Index, by 1995 he was cited 1700 times in the world literature, and in the period 1995-2002 he was cited 250 more times. Besides, he set up and headed the Laboratory for pathological neurochemistry at the School of Medicine in Belgrade that was the cradle for many outstanding researchers and lecturers that now work at the Schools of Medicine in Belgrade, Nish and Kragujevac, Military Medical Academy, and other institutions countrywide. He insisted on indispensable link between laboratory and clinical work, and, at least in the field of neurosciences, he is one of the pioneers of this kind of dialogue. In the year in which he left us for good (1994) scientific contribution of Bogomir Mrshulja was recognized by his election for the corresponding fellow of the Serbian Academy of Sciences and Arts. In the same year, he also received the October Award of the City of Belgrade for research.
Ljubodrag-Buba Mihailovitsh was born on 27th February 1926 in Kosovska Mitrovica in an esteemed teacher's family. He finished the elementary school in Kosovska Mitrovica and the secondary shool in Belgrade. From 1941 to 1945 he was in a concentration camp, but at the end of the war he was a fighter in the national-liberation army. He was holder of the Partizan Commemorative Medal 1941. Lj. Mihailovitsh entered the University School of Medicine in Belgrade in 1945/46 and finished the studies in 1951. During the studies he was one of the highly esteemed students and social-political workers. He was appointed physician at the Institute of Pathologic Physiology of the University School of Medicine in Belgrade in January 1952 where he started his research-work managed by professor Shahovitsh. At that time he spent half of his working hours at the Department of Neuro-psychiatry of the University School of Medicine in Belgrade managed by professor V. Vujitsh where he completed his knowledge in clinical neurology. In 1954 he was elected assistant lecturer, in 1958 senior lecturer, in 1964 associate professor, and in this rank he died. His remarkable working capability and brilliant intelligence became evident soon after the beginning of his duties at the Institute of Pathologic Physiology of the University School of Medine in Belgrade. In 1954 he went to Yale University in the USA for advanced, specialized training in the field of nerophysiology and neropathophysiology in the laboratory of professor P.J. Fulton. After return to the country in 1956 he became one of the leading research-workers, pedagogues and intellectuals. For his research-work in the field of pathologic physiology of epilepsy he got the Seventh July Award. On 21st March 1974 he was elected a corresponding member of the Serbian Academy of Science and Arts. The interest of professor Lj. Mihailovitsh was directed to several medical fields and therefore he became an eminent personality well known in the country and worldwide. He published 120 articles of which 365 are cited in scientific literature even today. The contribution of professor Mihailovitsh to the education of scientific personnel is great. In short, professor Ljubodrag-Buba Mihailovitsh is one of the first ambassadors of Serbian neurophysiology. He succeeded not only in mastering the science in early youth, but also to contribute to its development.



Based on prior work, we hypothesized that cigarette smoke contains chemicals that can inhibit growth of the chick chorioallantoic membrane (CAM). In this study, gas chromatography and mass spectrometry were used to identify 12 pyridine derivatives in the inhibitory fractions of smoke eluted from solid phase extraction cartridges. These pyridine derivatives were further studied individually in dose response experiments to determine their effects on CAM growth. A correlation was observed between the functional group substitutions on pyridine and the relative toxicity of each pyridine derivative. In the CAM growth assay, pyridine derivatives with single methyl or single ethyl substitutions had lowest observed adverse effect levels (LOAELs) of 5 x 10(-9) and 5 x 10(-12) M, respectively. Other pyridine derivatives and pyridine itself had LOAELs in the micromolar range. One of the most inhibitory derivatives, 3-ethylpyridine, was studied further and inhibited cell proliferation, as measured by BrdU incorporation. Since 3-ethylpyridine inhibited growth at picomolar doses and is added to consumer products including cosmetics, food, drinks, and tobacco, it will be important to perform further toxicological testing to determine its effect on human health.
The appearance of Santiago Ramn y Cajal in the world of neuroscience provoked a radical change in the course of its history. Cajal's studies of the microanatomy of virtually the whole CNS and his observations regarding degeneration and regeneration, together with his theories about the function, development and plasticity of the nervous system, had a profound impact on researchers of his era. These studies represent the roots of what are today some of the most exciting areas of discovery in terms of the structure and function of the brain in both sickness and health.
Until recently cysteine residues, especially those located extracellularly, were thought to be important for metal coordination, catalysis and protein structure by forming disulfide bonds - but they were not thought to regulate protein function. However, this is not the case. Crucial cysteine residues can be involved in modulation of protein activity and signaling events via other reactions of their thiol (sulfhydryl; -SH) groups. These reactions can take several forms, such as redox events (chemical reduction or oxidation), chelation of transition metals (chiefly Zn(2+), Mn(2+) and Cu(2+)) or S-nitrosylation [the catalyzed transfer of a nitric oxide (NO) group to a thiol group]. In several cases, these disparate reactions can compete with one another for the same thiol group on a single cysteine residue, forming a molecular switch composed of a latticework of possible redox, NO or Zn(2+) modifications to control protein function. Thiol-mediated regulation of protein function can also involve reactions of cysteine residues that affect ligand binding allosterically. This article reviews the basis for these molecular cysteine switches, drawing on the NMDA receptor as an exemplary protein, and proposes a molecular model for the action of S-nitrosylation based on recently derived crystal structures.
Uncertainty persists as to whether the amygdala is a crucial site of plasticity for classically conditioned fear or merely a sensory relay to structures generating fear responses. A recent Nature study suggests that associative synaptic changes take place in neurons of the amygdala during fear conditioning, and that these changes require dopamine-mediated modulation. Nevertheless, these findings do not prove that the amygdala is a sufficient site of plasticity for fear memory.
There would be a conceptual bridge between Psychoanalysis and the Neurosciences that would allow the translation of psychoanalytic concepts into neural mechanisms and vice-versa. Different Freudian postulates, such as that different types of anxiety would emerge from various cerebral interactions, the motivational regulatory functions of the impulse, the conscious emotion as the perception of something basically unconscious, the mechanism of repression in the traumatic memory, the existence of a system associated with the unconscious affective processes and regulated by the principle of pleasure - displeasure, the emotional representation as a basis of the more primitive cerebral structures, and the Oedipo complex, among others, are finding their biological ratification in different laboratory studies. This conceptual bridge would not only be a &quot;Psychoanalysis-Neurobiological mechanisms&quot; translator, but would also, through the integrated conceptualization of the psychoanalytical neurobiological aspects of emotion, generate relevant therapeutic models.
Visual information is encoded at the photoreceptor synapse by modulation of the tonic release of glutamate from one or more electron-dense ribbons. This release is highest in the dark, when photoreceptors are depolarized, and decreases in grades when photoreceptors hyperpolarize with increasing light. Functional diversity between neurons postsynaptic at the synaptic ribbon arises in part from differential expression of both metabotropic (G-protein-gated) and ionotropic (ligand-gated) glutamate receptor. In the brain, different subunits also modulate the presynaptic active zone. In hippocampus, ionotropic kainate receptors localize to the presynaptic membrane of glutamatergic axon terminals and facilitate depolarization of the synapse (e.g. Lauri et al., 2001). Such facilitation may be helpful in the retina, where consistent depolarization of the photoreceptor axon terminal is necessary to maintain glutamate release in the dark. We investigated whether such a mechanism could be present in primate retina by using electron microscopy to examine the localization of the kainate subunits GluR6/7 at the rod axon terminal, where only a single ribbon synapse mediates glutamate release. We scored 54 rod axon terminals whose postsynaptic space contained one or more GluR6/7-labeled processes and traced these processes through serial sections to determine their identity. Of 68 labeled processes, 63% originated from narrow &quot;fingers&quot; of cytoplasm extending from the presynaptic axon terminal into the postsynaptic cleft. Each rod terminal typically inserts 4-6 presynaptic fingers, and we scored several instances where multiple fingers contained label. Such consistency suggests that each presynaptic finger expresses GluR6/7. The physiological properties of kainate receptors and the geometry of the rod axon terminal suggest that presynaptic GluR6/7 could provide a steady inward current to maintain consistent depolarization of the rod synapse in the long intervals between photons in the dark.
We performed a nonradioactive in situ hybridization histochemistry (ISH) study of the lateral geniculate nucleus (LGN) and the primary visual area (area 17) of the macaque monkey to investigate mRNA expression of the myristoylated alanine-rich C-kinase substrate (MARCKS), a major protein kinase C (PKC) substrate. In the LGN, intense hybridization signals were observed in both magnocellular neurons (layers 1 and 2) and parvocellular neurons (layers 3 to 6). Double labeling using ISH and immunofluorescence revealed that MARCKS mRNA was coexpressed with the alpha-subunit of type II calcium/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase, indicating that MARCKS mRNA is also expressed in koniocellular neurons in the LGN. GABA-immunoreactive neurons in the LGN did not contain MARCKS mRNA, indicating that MARCKS mRNA is not expressed in inhibitory interneurons. The signals were generally weak in area 17, and intense signals were restricted to large neurons in layers IVB, V, and VI. GABA-immunoreactive neurons in layers II-VI of area 17 did not contain MARCKS mRNA. Double-label ISH revealed that MARCKS mRNA was coexpressed with mRNA of GAP-43, another PKC substrate, in neurons of both the LGN and area 17. To determine whether the expression of MARCKS mRNA is regulated by retinal activity, we performed ISH in the LGN and area 17 of monkeys deprived of monocular visual input by tetrodotoxin. After monocular deprivation for 5 to 30 days, MARCKS mRNA was down-regulated in the LGN, but not in area 17. These results suggest that MARCKS mediates the activity-dependent changes in the excitatory relay neurons in the LGN.
The cellular responses of the cone-dominant ground squirrel retina to retinal detachment were examined and compared to those in rod-dominant species. Retinal detachments were made in California ground squirrels. The retinas were prepared for light, electron, and confocal microscopy. Tissue sections were labeled with antibodies to cone opsins, rod opsin, glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP), vimentin, synaptophysin, cytochrome oxidase, and calbindin D 28K. Wax sections were probed with the MIB-1 antibody to detect proliferating cells. By 10 h postdetachment many photoreceptor cells in the ground squirrel already show structural signs of apoptosis. At 1 day many photoreceptors have collapsed inner segments (IS), yet others still have short stacks of outer segment discs. At 3 days there is a marked increase in the number of dying photoreceptors. Rod and medium-/long-wavelength opsins are redistributed in the cell membrane to their synaptic terminals. At 7 days photoreceptor cell death has slowed. Some regions of the outer nuclear layer (ONL) have few photoreceptor somata. IS remnants are rare on surviving photoreceptors. At 28 days these trends are even more dramatic. Retinal pigmented epithelium (RPE) cells do not expand into the subretinal space. The outer limiting membrane (OLM) appears flat and uninterrupted. Mller cells remain remarkably unreactive; they show essentially no proliferation, only negligible hypertrophy, and there is no increase in their expression of GFAP or vimentin. Horizontal cells show no dendritic sprouting in response to detachment. The speed and extent of photoreceptor degeneration in response to detachment is greater in ground squirrel than in cat retina-only a small number of rods and cones survive at 28 days of detachment. Moreover, the almost total lack of Mller cell and RPE reactivity in the ground squirrel retina is a significant difference from results in other species.
We investigated whether the original Roelofs effect and the induced Roelofs effect are caused by the same shift in perceived straight ahead. Subjects were presented with a target within a frame in complete darkness. Target and frame could both be shifted to the left or right of objective straight ahead. On separate trials, subjects gave verbal estimates about the position of either the target or the frame. The eccentricity of the frame was underestimated (the original Roelofs effect). However, the perceived position of the target did not follow this misjudgement of the eccentricity of the frame (the induced Roelofs effect was not present). Thus, it is unlikely that both effects have a common origin in misjudging egocentric straight ahead.

The aim of the study was to reveal a probable structural-functional basis of emotional self-regulation processes within the framework of cortex--basal ganglia interaction using on-line computer analysis of the EEG. The tested subjects were unable to overcome the emotional stress increasing in the process of decision making under conditions of high responsibility for the results of task solving. Striving to hold their social positions these subjects created a stable psychological set to keep their high responsibility and resist the relaxation tendency. Such a set facilitated the acceptance of the task for volitional effort to resist fear controlled by a biofeedback displayed in skin galvanic reaction.
Neurophysiological approaches to brain mechanisms of consciousness are discussed. The concept of spatial synchronization of nervous processes developed by M.N. Livanov is applied to neurophysiological analysis of higher brain functions. However, the spatial synchronization of brain potentials is only a condition for information processing and does not represent it as such. This imposes restrictions on conclusions about the neural mechanisms of consciousness. It is more adequate to use the concept of spatial synchronization in views of consciousness as a psychophysiological level along with sub- and superconsciousness in three-level structure of mind according to P.V. Simonov. Forms of consciousness interaction with other levels concern the problem of altered consciousness and may be reflected in various patterns of spatial organization of brain potentials.
Lipopolysaccharide (LPS), a part of the outer membrane of gram-negative bacteria activates the expression of the regulated upon activation, normal T cell expressed and secreted (RANTES), which plays an important role in the chemo-attraction of leukocytes during the inflammatory response. Recently, we found that LPS-induced RANTES production is mediated by the activation of NF-kappaB, but, the upstream regulatory mechanism involved in mediating this NF-kappaB activation was unclear. In this study, we investigated signal transducing molecules that mediate LPS-induced RANTES promoter activation and found the followings. First, LPS activates the RANTES gene promoter through NF-kappaB binding sites. Second, the expression of dominant negative mutants of TGF-beta-activated kinasel (TAK1) and NF-kappaB-inducing kinase (NIK), blocked the LPS-induced transcriptional activation of RANTES promoter. Moreover, the overexpression of TAK1 along with TAK1-binding protein 1 (TAB1), or NIK stimulated the transcriptional activation of RANTES in the absence of external stimuli. Third, we showed that endogenous TAK1 is phosphorylated by LPS stimulation, and that the association between TAK1 and tumour necrosis factor receptor-associated factor 6 (TRAF6) is constitutive and not induced by LPS treatment. These results indicate that NF-kappaB mediates LPS-triggered RANTES induction and that TAK1 as well as NIK, as NF-kappaB activators participates in LPS-triggered RANTES induction.
Recently we cloned the phospholipase C deltal (PLC-delta1) promoter region and found that PLC-delta1 is selectively expressed in several tissues. In order to establish the common and cell-type specific transcriptional elements, 1.8 kilobase of the 5'-flanking region of PLC-delta1 was characterized in several cell lines. A transient transfection assay of the -1787-Luc construct in several cell lines demonstrated the potential transcriptional enhancement of reporter activities in the neuroblastoma cell [SK-N-BE(2)C] and kidney cell lines (Cos-7), but not in liver cell lines (Chang liver cell). Transient transfection assays of a series of 5' --&gt; 3' deletion constructs of the PLC-delta1 promoter and electronic mobility shift assays suggested that the E-box and HFH3 binding sites are cell-type specific elements, and that Sp-1 is a major transcriptional activator of a majority of cell lines. Our findings, therefore, indicate that the combination of several elements within the 5'-flanking region of the PLC-delta1 gene dictates its restricted expression in several cell lines.
The neurofibromatosis type2 (NF2) gene encodes an intracellular-associated protein that is referred to as either merlin or schwannomin. Merlin/Schwannomin is a tumor suppressor protein that has been reported to block the Ras-mediated cell proliferation and -anchorage-independent cell growth. However, its inhibitory mechanism is uncertain. In this report, merlin was demonstrated to be effective in suppressing Ras-induced foci-formation and its associated AP-1 activity in NIH3T3cells. In addition, merlin blocked Ras-induced Rb phosphorylation, and inhibited the increase of cyclin D1 levels. It also blocked E2F-1-dependent transcription. These results suggest that merlin inhibits abnormal cell proliferation which is activated via Ras by repressing Rb phosphorylation, blocking the increase of the cyclin D1 protein level, and inhibiting the activation of AP-1- and E2F-1-dependent transcription in NIH3T3 cells.
Visinin-like protein-1 (VILIP-1), a myristoylated calcium sensor protein with three EF-hand motifs, modulates adenylyl cyclase activity. It translocates to membranes when a postulated &quot;calcium-myristoyl switch&quot; is triggered by calcium-binding to expose its sequestered myristoyl moiety. We investigated the contributions of the EF-hand motifs to the translocation of VILIP-1 to membranes and to the modulation of adenylyl cyclase activity. Mutation of residues crucial for binding calcium within each one of the EF-hand motifs indicated that they all contributed to binding calcium. Simultaneous mutations of all of the three EF-hand motifs completely abolished VILIP-1's ability to bind calcium, attenuated but did not eliminate its modulation of adenylyl cyclase activity, and abolished its calcium-dependence for association with cellular membranes. These results show that the calcium-binding EF-hand motifs of VILIP-1 do not have an essential role in modulating adenylyl cyclase activity but instead have a structural role in activating the &quot;calcium-myristoyl switch&quot; of VILIP-1.
The perturbations induced by second messenger diacylglycerols (DAGs) into bovine brain phosphatidylcholine (BBPC) bilayers in the presence or absence of bovine brain sphingomyelin (SM) and/or cholesterol were studied by (2)H NMR. Addition of 15 mol% DAG to BBPC bilayers did not induce non-bilayer lipid phases in the temperature range 30-60 degrees C. Similar measurements performed in the presence of cholesterol revealed that cholesterol progressively destabilizes PC bilayers with respect to DAG-induced perturbations. Thus, at 40 mol% cholesterol, addition of 15 mol% DAG induced the formation of non-bilayer (isotropic and inverted hexagonal) phases at 60 degrees C. Whereas some lateral separation of the bilayers into domains of different cholesterol contents was observed in BBPC/cholesterol membranes, such a lateral heterogeneity was greatly facilitated by the addition of SM. Since both a tendency to form non-bilayer lipid phases and lateral heterogeneity of the membranes are associated with increased activation of a number of membrane-associated enzymes, our results suggest that SM- and cholesterol-enriched regions of biological membranes (rafts) provide an environment with increased sensitivity to the generation of lipid second messengers and modified transmembrane signal transduction properties.
The suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN) of rats maintained under a 12-h light, 12-h dark cycle (LD12:12) as well as of those released into darkness exhibited the rhythm of a clock gene Per1 product, PER1 protein, with the maximum late in the subjective day and early night and minimum in the morning. The rhythm was phase delayed by 6-8 h compared with the reported rhythm of Per1 mRNA in the rat SCN [L. Yan et al. Neuroscience 94 (1999) 141]. Under a long, LD16:8, artificial photoperiod, the interval of elevated PER1-immunoreactivity was at least 4 h longer than that under a short, LD 8:16 photoperiod, due mainly to an earlier PER1 day-time rise under the long photoperiod. Under a natural photoperiod, profiles of the PER1 rhythm in summer and in winter resembled those under corresponding artificial photoperiods; therefore, twilight did not affect the rhythm in a substantial way. Under all photoperiods, when PER1 immunoreactivity was elevated, immunopositive cells were localized in the dorsomedial rather than in the ventrolateral part of the SCN. As the Per1 gene is a part of a molecular clockwork and as the rhythm of its product is modulated by the photoperiod, it appears that the whole molecular clockwork in the rat SCN is photoperiod-dependent and thus shaped by the season of the year.
This study investigates Ca(2+)/calmodulin kinase IIalpha (CaMKIIalpha) in primary sensory neurons. Immunohistochemical staining with a CaMKIIalpha antibody demonstrates 28% of dorsal root ganglion (DRG) cells are positively stained and have a diameter of 27 +/- 2.4 microm (mean +/- S.D.). Placement of tight ligatures around the sciatic nerve demonstrates a build up of immunoreaction product proximal to the ligatures indicating that CaMKIIalpha is transported into the peripheral processes of DRG cells. Immunostaining of lumbar dorsal roots at the electron microscopic level demonstrates reaction product in 15.4 +/- 2.1% of unmyelinated and 2.4 +/- 1.0% of myelinated axons, indicating that CaMKIIalpha is transported into the central processes of DRG cells. Electron microscopic analysis of normal digital nerves demonstrates CaMKIIalpha labeling in 3.3 +/- 0.3% of unmyelinated and 2.0 +/- 1.1% of myelinated cutaneous axons. These percentages increase significantly to 14.1 +/- 2.3% for unmyelinated and 5.1 +/- 1.4% for myelinated axons 48 h after complete Freund's adjuvant-induced inflammation of the hindpaw. The data indicate that CaMKIIalpha is present in small diameter primary sensory neurons, that it is transported into the peripheral and central processes of these cells and may play a role in processing noxious input, particularly in the inflamed state.
Alpha(2)-Adrenergic agonists increase the synthesis of nitric oxide (NO) in the spinal cord in both in vitro slice perfusion and in vivo microdialysis. In the normal condition, inhibition of NO synthase (NOS) has little effect on antinociception from alpha(2)-adrenergic agonists. However, following peripheral nerve injury, NOS inhibitors completely block the antihypersensitivity effects of alpha(2)-adrenergic agonists. It is possible that this increased reliance on NO may reflect a positive feedback release of norepinephrine (NE) stimulated by NO conjugates. For example, both S-nitroso-l-cysteine (SNC) and 6-NO(2)-norepinephrine (6-NO(2)-NE) release NE in rat spinal synaptosomes in a concentration-dependent manner and both are formed in spinal cord in vivo. In the current study, we tested whether SNC and 6-NO(2)-NE induced spinal NE release is increased in animals with peripheral nerve injury compared to normals. Crude spinal cord synaptosomes were prepared from nerve ligated and normal rats, loaded with [(3)H]NE and incubated with SNC or 6-NO(2)-NE. In a separate experiment, spinal cords from both groups were sonicated and the amount of NE measured using HPLC. NE release stimulated by SNC or 6-NO(2)-NE in lumbar dorsal spinal cord tissue did not differ between normal and nerve ligated groups. This suggests that increased spinal NE release from locally produced SNC or 6-NO(2)-NE is not the mechanism underlying the reliance of alpha(2)-adrenergic agonists on NO following peripheral nerve injury. Increased NE content and trend towards greater NE uptake in nerve injured spinal cord are consistent with increased noradrenergic innervation density of the spinal cord following peripheral nerve injury.
The functional connectivity of an embryonic graft implanted into the lesioned somatosensory cortex and the effect of DSP4 (a selective noradrenergic neurotoxin to noradrenergic terminals) and dizolcipine (a non-competitive NMDA receptor antagonist), was studied electrophysiologically. The forepaw representational area of the rat primary somatosensory cortex was lesioned unilaterally and, 3-4 weeks later, tissue from the same region of E19 rat embryos was implanted into the cavity. At 7-9 months later, the rats were anaesthetized and single unit activity was recorded from the grafts in response to contralateral forepaw, ipsilateral hindpaw and contralateral hindpaw stimulation and compared with that obtained in control rats, in rats pretreated with dizolcipine immediately after lesioning and in rats given DSP4 24 h before transplantation. Neurones within the graft were integrated into the host brain and developed a pattern of representation similar to that of intact rats, but with a reduced proportion of neurones exhibiting short-latency response to contralateral forepaw stimulation and an increased proportion responding to stimulation of more than one paw. Pretreatment with dizolcipine did not increase short-latency responses to stimulation of contralateral forepaw stimulation however pretreatment with DSP4 reduced such responses and increased proportion of inhibitory responses. It was concluded that the noradrenergic system plays an important role in establishing host-graft connectivity. The importance of further pharmacological studies on host-graft connectivity and the relation of such connections to neural plasticity were discussed.
Barrels in the somatosensory cortex are segregated columns, which somatotopically relate to facial whiskers. The barrel pattern is assumed to be determined by an extrinsic mechanism (the domino theory). This theory is based on whisker lesion experiments and developmental observations regarding the serial establishment of the somatotopic pattern in which pattern formations are relayed from the periphery to the central nervous system. However, the barrel pattern is possibly determined by an intrinsic mechanism, especially in its primitive form. In order to investigate the definitive mechanism, we established an experimental system in which the cortical barrel pattern can be altered, not by using a lesion paradigm, but by epigenetically changing the whisker pattern. Sonic hedgehog (Shh) plays a pivotal role in whisker development. We transfected an adenovirus harboring chicken Shh (Ad-cShh) to mouse embryos (E9.5-E11.5) using an in utero surgical technique. When Ad-cShh was expressed in the epidermis, Bmp4, Ptch, Ptch2 and Gli1 were induced ectopically in the interfollicular region. In contrast, the expression of Bmp2 and Shh itself was unaltered. At a suitable dose of Ad-cShh, some pups displayed supernumerary whiskers or a disordered whisker pattern. The barrel patterns of these mice after the critical period were topographic representations of the contralateral side of the new whisker patterns when visualized by a cytochrome oxidase or Nissle staining method, supporting the instructive role of the extrinsic mechanism.
Glutamate is the major excitatory neurotransmitter in the CNS and its effects on neurons are dependent on the type and composition of glutamate receptors with which it interacts. In this study, the protein expression levels of several ionotropic glutamate receptor subunits (N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) subunits NR1, NR2A, NR2B, and alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazoleproprionic acid (AMPA) receptor subunits GluR1, GluR2, GluR4) were quantified in particulate preparations from rat spinal cord at various ages after birth. We found that all six subunits showed high expression in the early postnatal period, followed by a subsequent decline as the rats matured to adults. The levels of two subunits (NR2A and GluR4) were found to initially increase during the first postnatal week prior to the decline to adult levels. The high levels of expression observed of these subunits in the early postnatal period may have implications for mechanisms of neural injury and cell death in the immature nervous system that involve cation influx through ionotropic glutamate receptors.
Development of sex differences in the spinal cord appears to be largely under the control of androgen and although neurotrophins may also have a role. Spinal cords of male and female neonatal gerbils (postnatal days 1, 5, 7, 10, 23) and adult gerbils (postnatal day 150) were examined to determine the relative temporal expression of androgen receptor (AR) and the low-affinity neurotrophin receptor (p75) mRNAs within the spinal nucleus of the bulbocavernosus (SNB) and dorsolateral nucleus (DLN). Furthermore, prepubertal male gerbils were placed into one of six gonadal hormone treatment groups at weaning: Either sham castrate, castrated with gonadal hormone replacement, or castrated without gonadal hormone replacement. Ten weeks later gerbils were aldehyde-perfused, spinal cords removed and processed for presence of AR and p75 immunoreactivity (ir) in motoneurons of the SNB and DLN. During neonatal development, there were significant increases in androgen receptor mRNA within the SNB and DLN. In the SNB, the increase in androgen receptor mRNA preceded the increase in p75 mRNA. Peripubertally, significantly more SNB than DLN motoneurons contained AR- and p75-ir. These data demonstrate that AR expression occurs along the same developmental time frame as the development of the SNB and DLN and the organizational effects of androgens on their development continues through puberty in the male gerbil.
We investigated three inflammatory agents to establish if these substances elicit a direct effect on the functional and structural integrity of the blood-brain barrier. Cellular cytotoxicity and paracellular permeability were assessed in vitro using primary bovine brain microvascular endothelial cells exposed to formalin, lambda-carrageenan, or complete Freund's adjuvant for 1, 3, or 72 h, respectively. Results showed that only the highest concentration (0.025%) of formalin produced a decrease in cell viability (approximately 34%) and a significant increase in cell permeability to [(14)C]sucrose at 120 min (approximately 137%). Brain perfusion using female Sprague-Dawley rats showed no difference in paracellular permeability to [(14)C]sucrose for any inflammatory agent. Western blot analyses were performed on isolated rat brain microvessels to assess the structural integrity of blood-brain barrier tight junctions. Results indicate that expression of zonula occludens-1, occludin, claudin-1, and actin remain unchanged following intravenous exposure to inflammatory agents. This study confirms that changes seen at the blood-brain barrier following a peripheral inflammation are due to physiological responses to the given inflammatory agent and not to any direct interaction between the inflammatory agent and the brain microvasculature.
Cyclin-dependent kinase 5 (Cdk5) is a serine/threonine kinase that plays important roles during central nervous system development. Cdk5 kinase activity depends on its regulatory partners, p35 or p39, which are prominently expressed in the central nervous system. We have previously demonstrated the involvement of Cdk5 in the regulation of acetylcholine receptor expression at the neuromuscular junction, suggesting a novel functional role of Cdk5 at the synapse. Here we report the identification of Pctaire1, a member of the Cdk-related kinase family, as a p35-interacting protein in muscle. Binding of Pctaire1 to p35 can be demonstrated by in vitro binding assay and co-immunoprecipitation experiments. Pctaire1 is associated with p35 in cultured myotubes and skeletal muscle, and is concentrated at the neuromuscular junction. Furthermore, Pctaire1 can be phosphorylated by the Cdk5/p25 complex, and serine 95 is the major phosphorylation site. In brain and muscle of Cdk5 null mice, Pctaire1 activity is significantly reduced. Moreover, Pctaire1 activity is increased following preincubation with brain extracts and phosphorylation by the Cdk5/p25 complex. Taken together, our findings demonstrate that Pctaire1 interacts with p35, both in vitro and in vivo, and that phosphorylation of Pctaire1 by Cdk5 enhances its kinase activity.
As the limits of stimuli presentation rates are explored in event-related fMRI design, there is a greater need to assess the implications of averaging raw fMRI data. Selective averaging assumes that the fMRI signal consists of task-dependent signal, random noise, and non-task dependent brain signal that can be modeled as random noise so that it tends to zero when averaged over a practical number of trials. We recorded a total of four fMRI data series from two normal subjects (subject 1, axially acquired; subject 2, coronally acquired) performing a simple visual event-related task and a water phantom with the same fMRI scanner imaging parameters. To determine which fraction of the fMRI data was deterministic as opposed to random, we created different data subsets by taking the odd or even time points of the full data sets. All data sets were first dimension-reduced with principal component analysis (PCA) and separated into 100 spatially independent components with independent component analysis (ICA). The mutual information between best-matching pairs of components selected from full data set-subset comparisons was plotted for each data set. Visual inspection suggested that 45-85 components were reproducible, and hence deterministic, accounting for 79-97% of the variance, respectively, in the raw data. The reproducible components exhibited much less trial-to-trial variability than the raw data from even the most activated voxel. Many (22-47) of reproducible components were significantly affected by stimulus presentation (P &lt; 0.001). The most significantly-stimulus-correlated component was strongly time-locked to stimulus presentation and was directly stimulus correlated, corresponding to occipital brain regions. However, other spatially distinct task-related components demonstrated variable temporal relationships with the most significantly-stimulus-correlated component. Our results suggest that the majority of the variance in fMRI data is in fact deterministic, and support the notion that the data consist of differing components with differing temporal relationships to visual stimulation. They further suggest roles for restricting interpretations of the spatial extent of activation from event-related designs to a specific region of interest (ROI) and/or first separating the data into spatially independent components. Averaging the time courses of spatially independent components time-locked to stimulus presentation may prevent possible biases in the estimates of the spatial and temporal extent of stimulus-correlated activation and of trial-to-trial variability.
We tested the significance of a population of lumbar spinothalamic cells for male sexual behavior in rats. These cells are positioned to relay ejaculation-related signals from reproductive organs to the brain, and they express neurokinin-1 receptors. Ablation of these neurons by the selective toxin SSP-saporin resulted in a complete disruption of ejaculatory behavior. In contrast, other components of sexual behavior remained intact. These results suggest that this population of spinothalamic cells plays a pivotal role in generation of ejaculatory behavior and may be part of a spinal ejaculation generator.
Synapses, the junctions between nerve cells through which they communicate, are formed by the coordinated assembly and tight attachment of pre- and postsynaptic specializations. We now show that SynCAM is a brain-specific, immunoglobulin domain-containing protein that binds to intracellular PDZ-domain proteins and functions as a homophilic cell adhesion molecule at the synapse. Expression of the isolated cytoplasmic tail of SynCAM in neurons inhibited synapse assembly. Conversely, expression of full-length SynCAM in nonneuronal cells induced synapse formation by cocultured hippocampal neurons with normal release properties. Glutamatergic synaptic transmission was reconstituted in these nonneuronal cells by coexpressing glutamate receptors with SynCAM, which suggests that a single type of adhesion molecule and glutamate receptor are sufficient for a functional postsynaptic response.



We examined the relationship between brain anatomy and the ability to learn nonnative speech sounds, as well as rapidly changing and steady-state nonlinguistic sounds, using voxel-based morphometry in 59 healthy adults. Faster phonetic learners appeared to have more white matter in parietal regions, especially in the left hemisphere. The pattern of results was similar for the rapidly changing but not for the steady-state nonlinguistic stimuli, suggesting that morphological correlates of phonetic learning are related to the ability to process rapid temporal variation. Greater asymmetry in the amount of white matter in faster learners may be related to greater myelination allowing more efficient neural processing, which is critical for the ability to process certain speech sounds.
Adult neural stem cells are rare, and little is known about their unique characteristics, leaving their in vivo identity enigmatic. We show that Lewis X (LeX), a carbohydrate expressed by embryonic pluripotent stem cells, is made by adult mouse subventricular zone (SVZ) stem cells and shed into their environment. Only 4% of acutely isolated SVZ cells are LeX(+); this subpopulation, purified by FACS, contains the SVZ stem cells. Ependymal cells are LeX(-), and purified ependymal cells do not make neurospheres, resolving the controversial claim that these are stem cells. Thus, LeX expression by adult CNS stem cells aids their in vivo identification, allows their enrichment, and raises new questions about the role of this unusual carbohydrate in stem cell biology.
Neural signals are corrupted by noise and this places limits on information processing. We review the processes involved in goal-directed movements and how neural noise and uncertainty determine aspects of our behaviour. First, noise in sensory signals limits perception. We show that, when localizing our hand, the central nervous system (CNS) integrates visual and proprioceptive information, each with different noise properties, in a way that minimizes the uncertainty in the overall estimate. Second, noise in motor commands leads to inaccurate movements. We review an optimal-control framework, known as 'task optimization in the presence of signal-dependent noise', which assumes that movements are planned so as to minimize the deleterious consequences of noise and thereby minimize inaccuracy. Third, during movement, sensory and motor signals have to be integrated to allow estimation of the body's state. Models are presented that show how these signals are optimally combined. Finally, we review how the CNS deals with noise at the neural and network levels. In all of these processes, the CNS carries out the tasks in such a way that the detrimental effects of noise are minimized. This shows that it is important to consider effects at the neural level in order to understand performance at the behavioural level.
The ability to generalize behaviour-guiding principles and concepts from experience is key to intelligent, goal-directed behaviour. It allows us to deal efficiently with a complex world and to adapt readily to novel situations. We review evidence that the prefrontal cortex-the cortical area that reaches its greatest elaboration in primates-plays a central part in acquiring and representing this information. The prefrontal cortex receives highly processed information from all major forebrain systems, and neurophysiological studies suggest that it synthesizes this into representations of learned task contingencies, concepts and task rules. In short, the prefrontal cortex seems to underlie our internal representations of the 'rules of the game'. This may provide the necessary foundation for the complex behaviour of primates, in whom this structure is most elaborate.
We review some of our recent research using functional neuroimaging to investigate neural activity supporting the encoding and retrieval of episodic memories, that is, memories for unique events. Findings from studies of encoding indicate that, at the cortical level, the regions responsible for the effective encoding of a stimulus event as an episodic memory include some of the regions that are also engaged to process the event 'online'. Thus, it appears that there is no single cortical site or circuit responsible for episodic encoding. The results of retrieval studies indicate that successful recollection of episodic information is associated with activation of lateral parietal cortex, along with more variable patterns of activity in dorsolateral and anterior prefrontal cortex. Whereas parietal regions may play a part in the representation of retrieved information, prefrontal areas appear to support processes that act on the products of retrieval to align behaviour with the demands of the retrieval task.
Recent research has provided new insights into the neural processes that select the target for and control the production of a shift of gaze. Being a key node in the network that subserves visual processing and saccade production, the frontal eye field (FEF) has been an effective area in which to monitor these processes. Certain neurons in the FEF signal the location of conspicuous or meaningful stimuli that may be the targets for saccades. Other neurons control whether and when the gaze shifts. The existence of distinct neural processes for visual selection and saccade production is necessary to explain the flexibility of visually guided behaviour.
Attention to a visual stimulus typically increases the responses of cortical neurons to that stimulus. Because many studies have shown a close relationship between the performance of individual neurons and behavioural performance of animal subjects, it is important to consider how attention affects this relationship. Measurements of behavioural and neuronal performance taken from rhesus monkeys while they performed a motion detection task with two attentional states show that attention alters the relationship between behaviour and neuronal response. Notably, attention affects the relationship differently in different cortical visual areas. This indicates that a close relationship between neuronal and behavioural performance on a given task persists over changes in attentional state only within limited regions of visual cortex.
To assess the role of orexin receptor signaling in neuron-like cells, Neuro-2a murine neuroblastoma and PC12 human pheochromocytoma cells were stably transfected with human OX(1) or OX(2) receptors. Activation of both receptors strongly elevated cellular inositol phosphates and Ca(2+). A difference in the potency between orexin-A and -B was seen for OX(1), but not OX(2) receptors. Dependence of the orexin-mediated Ca(2+) response on extracellular Ca(2+) and the observed Ba(2+) influx indicate that in addition to phospholipase C, orexin receptors also may couple to similar non-voltage-gated Ca(2+) channels in neuronal cells as previously characterized in non-neuronal cells.
A report on the British Society for Cell Biology (BSCB) meeting on 'Cell Biology and Neurobiology: A Meeting for Martin Raff', London, UK, 3-5 July 2002.

A decrease in D2 dopamine receptor subtype (D2R) binding in the striatum has been reported in obese individuals and drug addicts. We examined D2R density in the striatum of food-restricted rats that had contingent access to food with different incentive values. Results showed that animals receiving limited access to 0.3 M sucrose paired 2 h with a chow meal for 7 days had a significantly lower D2R binding in nucleus accumbens shell and dorsolateral striatum compared with animals that had limited access to chow. There was no differential binding, however, in the accumbens core in any of the groups. These findings indicate that feeding conditions and sucrose intake influence D2R density specifically in subregions of the striatum.
It is traditionally assumed that temporal and spatial factors determine whether information provided by different sensory modalities is combined in a single percept. However, neuropsychological reports of selective damage to audio-visual integration and recent neurophysiological results suggest that semantic factors related to the content of the stimuli could also play a role. As a means of extending evidence provided by neuropsychological dissociations we set up a direct comparison of two kinds of audio-visual pairs with different semantic properties and used transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS). We investigated the selective impact of TMS on two kinds of audio-visual pairings presented under identical spatio-temporal conditions (face-voice and tone-shape pairings). Our results show that TMS applied over the left posterior parietal cortex at 200 ms disrupted audio-visual integration for the tone-shape pairings but not for the face-voice ones. Our data are consistent with neuropsychological findings and indicate that besides the well-known dimensions of spatial and temporal contiguity, content is an important determinant of audio-visual integration. Our study also illustrates the usefulness of TMS for addressing the role of semantic factors in multi-sensory perception
Functional brain imaging using selective drug probes offers the opportunity to investigate regional neuronal activation linked to receptor stimulation or inhibition. In a placebo-controlled, balanced order design in eight male volunteers, the 5-HT(2c) agonist, m-chlorophenylpiperazine (mCPP) increased blood oxygen level dependent (BOLD) signal in the hypothalamus, caudate, pallidum, amygdala and pyriform cortex, anterior cingulate gyrus and choroid plexus (p &lt; 0.001 uncorrected), areas with high density of 5-HT(2c) receptors. Activation in the hypothalamus correlated significantly with the prolactin response (p &lt; 0.05 small volume corrected). In a subsequent Go/NoGo task, mCPP enhanced activation in right lateral orbitofrontal cortex (p &lt; 0.05 small volume corrected). These findings suggest that pharmacoMRI is a potentially powerful tool for investigating neurotransmitter function in humans.
Interference effects on somatic cognition were compared with those on primary magnetic N20m responses. During tactile interference to various sets of digits, sensory thresholds for electric middle finger stimulation were measured, and then N20m was elicited with the intensity 4 mA above the sensory threshold measured without interference. After the recording, subjective magnitudes for the test stimuli were reported. Modifications of N20m and above psychophysical measures were dependent on the distance between electrically and mechanically activated areas. The differential N20m attenuation is considered to be generated within the neural circuitry in area 3b consisting of mechanically and electrically activated pyramidal neurons. The result indicates that such circuitry plays a fundamental role in magnitude estimation of somatic stimuli.
The unusual amino acid D-aspartate is present in significant amounts in brain and endocrine glands and is supposed to be involved in neurotransmission and neurosecretion (Wolosker et al. [2000] Neuroscience 100:183-189). D-aspartate oxidase is the only enzyme known to metabolize D-aspartate and could regulate its level in different regions of the brain. We examined the cellular and subcellular distribution of this enzyme and its mRNA in human and rat brain by immunohistochemistry, in situ hybridization, and immunoelectron microscopy. D-aspartate oxidase protein and mRNA are ubiquitous. The protein shows a granular pattern, particularly within neurons and to a significantly lesser extent in astrocytes and oligodendrocytes. No evidence for a synaptic association was observed. Whereas between most positive neurons only gradual differences were observed, in the hypothalamic paraventricular nucleus, neurons with high enzyme content were found next to others with no labeling. cDNA cloning of D-aspartate oxidase corroborates an inherent targeting signal sequence for protein import into peroxisomes. Immunoelectron microscopy showed that the protein is localized in single membrane-bound organelles, apparently peroxisomes.
Recently an animal model for neurodevelopmental disorders has been developed. In this model the effects of an early neonatal [postnatal day 7 (Pd7)] basolateral amygdala lesion are compared with the effects of a lesion later in life (Pd21). Early amygdala damage results in enduring behavioral disturbances that become more manifest after puberty. These disturbances were not present in animals lesioned at Pd21. Accordingly it was postulated that the early damage may affect the neuroanatomical and neurochemical organization and functioning of other brain structures. To obtain information on the innervation of the amygdala during normal development, we used the retrograde tracer fluoro-gold. From neonatal day 7 onward (studied until Pd19), retrogradely labeled cells were present in the caudal and rostral thalamus, the substantia innominata, and the prefrontal but not the caudal cortex. Development of the topography of the projecting cells differed substantially for the thalamic regions and substantia innominata vs. the cortical regions. In thalamic regions and substantia innominata, no changes were observed during the studied period (Pd7-Pd9). In the prefrontal cortex, the number of labeled cells increased (from Pd7 to Pd13), the topography of the location of the cells changed from unilateral to bilaminar (from Pd9 to Pd13), and the number of subareas in which the cells were present increased (from Pd7 to Pd13). In the caudal cortex, relatively few cells were present up to Pd15. From Pd17 onward, a bilaminar topography of the location of the cells was observed. These data provide information on the circuitry that may be involved in the aberrant neurodevelopment of neonatally amygdala-lesioned rats, which has been proposed as an animal model for neurodevelopmental psychopathological disorders.
Firing patterns of injured nerve fibers were recorded using the single-fiber firing recording technique. Under the same background firing pattern, three types of bursting were induced separately by EGTA, veratridine or high [Ca(2+)](o) in the same type of nerve fibers. The results suggest that different firing patterns are related to different stimuli, which means that each firing pattern carries corresponding neural information.


The distribution of AMPA-type glutamate receptor (GluR) subunits was studied in the Edinger-Westphal nucleus (EW) of chicks and pigeons. GluR1, GluR2, GluR3 and GluR4 subunits appeared to be present in EW neurons of both species, but interspecific differences were observed in the abundance of the different types of subunits found in EW neurons. Of particular note, GluR2 immunoreactivity was present in the vast majority (ca. 80%) of neurons of pigeon EW but was found in only a small fraction (ca. 15%) of chick EW neurons. Scarcity of the GluR2 subunit in chick EW was confirmed by in situ hybridization. Because of the tendency for parvalbumin to be localized to neurons that are selectively deficient in GluR2, we also studied the localization of parvalbumin, as well as other calcium-binding proteins, in EW of chick and pigeon. Parvalbumin was found in more than 50% of chick EW neurons but was not detected in pigeon EW neurons. Our results suggest that there are major glutamatergic inputs to EW neurons in both pigeons and chicks. Furthermore, there are likely to be more AMPA-type calcium-permeable glutamate receptors in EW neurons of chick than in pigeon, since it is known that the subtype containing the edited GluR2 subunit is not calcium permeable.
Agmatine is an endogenous amine derived from the decarboxylation of arginine by arginine decarboxylase (ADC), and metabolized to putrescine by agmatinase. Exogenously administered agmatine has several biological actions including its ability to potentiate morphine analgesia and block symptoms of morphine tolerance/withdrawal in rats. To investigate the role of endogenous agmatine in this action, we sought to determine whether chronic exposure to morphine and induction of withdrawal modulate the synthesis of agmatine in rat brain and other tissues. Exposure of rats to morphine for three days significantly decreases the activity of ADC and the levels of agmatine in rat liver, kidney, brain, aorta and intestine with no changes in agmatinase activity. The precipitation of withdrawal syndrome by injecting naloxone further decreases ADC activity and agmatine levels in these tissues. We conclude that endogenous agmatine may play an important role in regulating morphine tolerance/dependence and withdrawal symptoms.

Domestication has been shown to produce a shift in both morphological and behavioral characteristics of animals. While changes in body weight, brain size, reproductive rates, and temperament are well documented, the effects of domestication on learning and memory are not as clearly understood. This issue is of particular importance to the use of rodent models in learning and memory where the domestication of Rattus norvegicus for research has resulted in the availability of numerous strains. To investigate cognitive effects resulting frm domestication, we examined the spatial performance of a number of rat strains: wild, Long-Evans, Fischer-Norway, Dark-Agouti, Wistar, Fischer 344, Sprague-Dawley. The wild rats served as a baseline for comparing inbred and outbred domestic strains and pigmented and albino domestic strains. Place (a measure of nonspatial and procedural learning), matching-to-place (spatial working memory), and probe (retention) performance were measured in the Morris swimming pool task. The task is an ideal means for comparing different rat strains because place learning has not been selected for in the domestication of Rattus norvegicus and because the task is ethologically relevant. The results indicated that wild rats and Long-Evans rats did not differ on any measure, with Fischer-Norway rats being only slightly inferior. Larger impairments were found in Wistar &gt; Fischer 344 &gt; Dark-Agouti &gt; Sprague-Dawley strains. Impairments were more obvious on place acquisition but also occurred in matching-to-place performance. Platform crosses, but not quadrant preference was found to be correlated with place learning. In general, although nonspatial and spatial deficits were associated with both inbreeding and albinism, impaired spatial performance is not a necessary result of domestication.
Transgenic mice carrying mutated human amyloid precursor protein (APPswe) and presenilin (PS1, A246E) genes develop first amyloid plaques around 9 months of age, but up to 18 months of age, amyloid depositions in these mice were largely restricted to the hippocampus, subiculum, and neocortex. To assess the behavioral consequences of amyloid accumulation in the hippocampal formation, we compared the effects of APP+PS1 (AP) genotype and fimbria-fornix (FFX) transection, either alone or combined, on various spatial learning and memory tasks. Both FFX-lesioned and AP mice were impaired in spatial navigation in the water maze, a typical hippocampal dependent task. Conversely, neither group of mice was impaired in a win-stay version of the radial arm maze (RAM) or position discrimination in the T-maze, tasks that do not depend on the hippocampus. FFX-lesioned mice were impaired in the win-shift version of the RAM, and in spontaneous and rewarded alternation in the T-maze, while AP mice performed equal to non-transgenic controls in all these working memory tasks, except long-term retention of the RAM task. AP mice thus appear to have a selective deficit in hippocampal dependent long-term memory, as do Alzheimer patients at early stage of the disease.
Cueing a stressor can influence the perception of and the direct reaction to a stressor. Until now, only the direct reaction of an animal to the cue or to the subsequent stressor has been examined. This experiment assesses the long-term behavioural effects of cueing two different stressors. Rats were exposed to physical stress (PS) or emotional stress (ES) in a two-compartment box for 5 consecutive days. PS rats daily received mild foot shocks during 10 min. ES rats were forced to witness the PS rats being foot shocked. A control group was placed in the same box without receiving shocks. Every foot shock was either cued or not cued with a 3-s light signal. In an additional experiment the effect of longer and stronger foot shocks was also investigated. Effects of stress treatments were measured 5 days after the last stress session in a small open field. Data showed that PS and ES had opposite long-term effects on open field activity (activity PS decreased and ES increased). Cueing stress resulted in a more pronounced effect in the PS, but not in the ES group. Presenting the light signal during emotional stress and control treatment resulted in an overall behavioural activation in the open field. All animals were exposed to the light stimulus in an open field after habituation. Both PS groups showed less active exploration during the test, while all cue-nave animals showed more ambulations. No emotional stress effect was present. The direct reaction of the animals to the cue also differed with treatment: cued PS animals became inactive, while animals of all other groups primarily reacted with active exploration. Increasing the intensity of the foot shocks resulted in an increased physical stress effect, similar to cued physical stress; no effect was found on emotional stress effects. The results indicated that stress associated cues can increase the long-term behavioural effects of physical but not of emotional stress. Exposure to the cue induces a conditioned response in the cued PS group. Witnessing cued or more severe stressors did not influence the emotional stress effect. The findings again demonstrate that emotional and physical stressors are fundamentally different.
We revealed functional lateralization of the chick visual system by placing injections of monosodium glutamate (0.5 microl, 100 mM) into the left or right Wulst regions of the hemispheres, and examined the effects of light experience before hatching on this lateralization. Following exposure of the left or right eye to light for 24 h beginning on day 18 of incubation, the chick's ability to categorize grain as distinct from pebbles was impaired by glutamate treatment of the Wulst contralateral to the exposed eye. Attack and copulation scores were also elevated. Following incubation of the eggs in darkness or with both eyes exposed to light, treatment of neither the left or right Wulst affected performance on the pebble-grain task: showing that either the left and right Wulst can assume control of this function. Treatment of either the left or right Wulst of these chicks elevates attack and copulation. However, examination of the distribution of attack scores revealed a bimodality in the attack scores of the chicks treated with glutamate in the right Wulst and not those treated in the left Wulst. In summary, light stimulation of one eye during a critical period of embryonic development causes the visual Wulst contralateral to the light exposed eye to develop dominance over its equivalent region in the other hemisphere. Without this lateralized stimulation of light both the left and right Wulst regions are largely but not exactly equivalent.
The pyramidal tract of the rat consists of at least two components. A majority of the fibers cross in the lower medulla and descend through the spinal cord in the ventral portion of the dorsal funiculus. The remaining 5% of the corticospinal projection does not cross and descends in the ipsilateral ventral funiculus into the cervical spinal region where its projections terminate in the internuncial portions of the spinal gray matter. The anatomical origin and terminal distribution of the ipsilateral component suggests that it may be involved in the control of the ipsilateral limb, but the possible contribution of the ipsilateral corticospinal tract has not been systematically examined. To determine whether the ipsilateral corticospinal tract makes a contribution to skilled movement, the corticospinal tract was severed unilaterally at the medullary level rostral to the decussation, thus severing both the crossed component of the tract as well as the ipsilateral component. Performance of the ipsilateral and the contralateral limbs of rats were then evaluated on tests of limb posture, preference, placing, and use in two skilled reaching tasks. No impairments on any quantitative or qualitative measure of performance were detected in the use of the limb ipsilateral to the lesion but severe, enduring impairments on all qualitative and quantitative measures were obtained in use of the limb contralateral to the lesion. Thus, the study finds: (1) no evidence that the ipsilateral portion of the corticospinal tract makes a contribution to skilled movement of the kind made by the contralateral portion of the corticospinal tract, and (2) no evidence that the remaining uncrossed portion of the tract contributes to recovery of symptoms produced by severing the crossed portion of the tract.
Pre-exposure to the context facilitates the small amount of contextual fear conditioning that is normally produced by immediate shock. This context pre-exposure facilitation effect provides a convenient way to study the rat's learning about context. We recently reported that anterograde damage to dorsal hippocampus prevents this facilitation. The present experiments strengthen this conclusion by showing that the protein synthesis inhibitor, anisomycin, injected bilaterally into the dorsal hippocampus following context pre-exposure also significantly reduces the facilitation effect. The same treatment given immediately after immediate shock, however, had no effect on facilitation. These results support theories that assume that, (a) contextual fear involves two processes, acquiring and storing a conjunctive representation of a context and associating that representation with fear; and (b) the hippocampus contributes to contextual fear by participating in the storage of the memory representation of the context.
Prior research has revealed that treatments that elevate the level of the pro-inflammatory cytokine IL-1beta in the brain, if given after training, impair contextual but not auditory-cue fear conditioning. The present experiments add to these finding by showing that, (a) IL-1beta exerts its effect on contextual fear conditioning by impairing consolidation processes that support the storage of the memory representation of the context; (b) the dorsal hippocampus is a critical site for the effect of IL-1beta; (c) the effect of IL-1beta cannot be attributed to its effect on glucocorticoid levels; and (d) IL-1beta injected into dorsal hippocampus either, immediately, 3, or 24 h, but not 48 h, after training produces this impairment. At this time the mechanisms responsible for this impairment are not understood, but may involve late-phase protein synthesis processes associated with LTP, because later consolidation processes are being disrupted.
Prior D-amphetamine experience has been reported to enhance appetitive Pavlovian conditioning. The present study assessed the involvement of the mesoamygdaloid dopamine projection in this effect. Bilateral post-session intra-amygdala infusions of the D3 dopamine receptor antagonist, L-nafadotride, or vehicle were given during acquisition of a Pavlovian association in sensitised and unsensitised rats. During these sessions, subjects received presentations of a stimulus (CS(+)) paired with 10% sucrose availability. A second stimulus (CS(-)) was also presented but never paired with sucrose. Sensitised animals infused post-session with vehicle acquired a Pavlovian conditioned approach response during CS(+) presentations more rapidly than controls, as we have shown previously. However, post-session intra-amygdala L-nafadotride selectively retarded conditioned responding to the CS(+) in both groups of animals, abolishing the difference between sensitised and unsensitised rats. These results, therefore, extend the evidence for the involvement of the mesoamygdaloid dopamine projection in Pavlovian conditioning, and the facilitation of associative learning following sensitisation.
Recent studies have shown that contrary to expectation, larger-brained species within mammalian orders are not more likely to engage in play. This is true for juvenile rodents, juvenile marsupials and adult primates. Neither does the relative size of the neocortex predict the prevalence of play in species of marsupials and primates. Two methodological limitations may account for the lack of such relationships. Firstly, play may only vary systematically with specific brain areas, not overall size increases in brain tissue. Secondly, the play indices used to measure the variation in play across species may be insufficiently sensitive to the effects of changes in brain size. In this study, we attempt to deal with the first methodological problem. The adult-adult play fighting among species of primates was correlated with the relative size of the non-visual cortex and the amygdala. The statistical analyses used took into account the problems of scaling and corrected for degree of phylogenetic relatedness among the species. The size of the non-visual cortex failed to predict the prevalence of play fighting occurring in either sexual or non-sexual contexts. In contrast, the size of the amygdala significantly predicted the prevalence of sexual play, but not non-sexual play. That is, species with larger sized amygdala are more likely to engage in sexual play. These findings provide new insights into the role of different brain systems in the regulation of play behavior.

Accurate navigation by a neuronal growth cone requires the modulation of the growth cone's responsiveness to spatial and temporal changes in expression of guidance cues. These adaptations involve local protein synthesis and turnover in growth cones and distal axons.
Predicting the consequences of our actions is essential for sensorimotor control. A candidate neural pathway underlying the prediction of eye position during saccades has been reported.

Social exchange is a pervasive feature of human social life. Models in evolutionary biology predict that for social exchange to evolve in a species, individuals must be able to detect cheaters (nonreciprocators). Previous research suggests that humans have a cognitive mechanism specialized for detecting cheaters. Here we provide neurological evidence indicating that social exchange reasoning can be selectively impaired while reasoning about other domains is left intact. The patient, R.M., had extensive bilateral limbic system damage, affecting orbitofrontal cortex, temporal pole, and amygdala. We compared his performance on two types of reasoning problem that were closely matched in form and equally difficult for control subjects: social contract rules (of the form, &quot;If you take the benefit, then you must satisfy the requirement&quot;) and precaution rules (of the form, &quot;If you engage in hazardous activity X, then you must take precaution Y&quot;). R.M. performed significantly worse in social contract reasoning than in precaution reasoning, when compared both with normal controls and with other brain-damaged subjects. This dissociation in reasoning performance provides evidence that reasoning about social exchange is a specialized and separable component of human social intelligence, and is consistent with other research indicating that the brain processes information about the social world differently from other types of information.
The transcription factor cAMP response element (CRE)-binding protein (CREB) has been shown to regulate neural plasticity. Drugs of abuse activate CREB in the nucleus accumbens, an important part of the brain's reward pathways, and local manipulations of CREB activity have been shown to affect cocaine reward, suggesting an active role of CREB in adaptive processes that follow exposure to drugs of abuse. Using CRE-LacZ reporter mice, we show that not only rewarding stimuli such as morphine, but also aversive stimuli such as stress, activate CRE-mediated transcription in the nucleus accumbens shell. Using viral-mediated gene transfer to locally alter the activity of CREB, we show that this manipulation affects morphine reward, as well as the preference for sucrose, a more natural reward. We then show that local changes in CREB activity induce a more general syndrome, by altering reactions to anxiogenic, aversive, and nociceptive stimuli as well. Increased CREB activity in the nucleus accumbens shell decreases an animal's responses to each of these stimuli, whereas decreased CREB activity induces an opposite phenotype. These results show that environmental stimuli regulate CRE-mediated transcription within the nucleus accumbens shell, and that changes in CREB activity within this brain area subsequently alter gating between emotional stimuli and their behavioral responses. This control appears to be independent of the intrinsic appetitive or aversive value of the stimulus. The potential relevance of these data to addiction and mood disorders is discussed.
In the current investigation, the neurophysiological organization of the neocortex was examined in adult animals that were bilaterally enucleated very early in life, before the retino-geniculo-cortical pathway was established. Our results indicate that some aspects of development of cortical fields are not mediated by specific sensory inputs. However, the current study also demonstrates that peripheral innervation plays a large role in the organization of the neocortex, as cortical territories normally involved in visual processing are completely captured by the auditory and somatosensory system. Thus, a large degree of phenotypic variability in cortical organization can be accomplished solely by removing or modifying sensory inputs.
Little is known about the physiological roles of the M5 muscarinic receptor, the last member of the muscarinic receptor family (M1-M5) to be cloned. In the brain, the M5 receptor subtype is preferentially expressed by dopaminergic neurons of the substantia nigra and the ventral tegmental area. Dopaminergic neurons located in the ventral tegmental area are known to play important roles in mediating both the rewarding effects of opiates and other drugs of abuse and the manifestations of opiate/drug withdrawal symptoms. We therefore speculated that acetylcholine-dependent activation of M5 receptors might modulate the manifestations of opiate reward and withdrawal. This hypothesis was tested in a series of behavioral, biochemical, and neurochemical studies using M5 receptor-deficient mice (M5-/- mice) as novel experimental tools. We found that the rewarding effects of morphine, as measured in the conditioned place preference paradigm, were substantially reduced in M5-/- mice. Furthermore, both the somatic and affective components of naloxone-induced morphine withdrawal symptoms were significantly attenuated in M5-/- mice. In contrast, the analgesic efficacy of morphine and the development of tolerance to the analgesic effects of morphine remained unaltered by the lack of M5 receptors. The finding that M5 receptor activity modulates both morphine reward and withdrawal processes suggests that M5 receptors may represent a novel target for the treatment of opiate addiction.
Evidence suggests that some structural brain abnormalities in schizophrenia are neurodevelopmental in origin. There is also growing evidence to suggest that shape deformations in brain structure may reflect abnormalities in neurodevelopment. While many magnetic resonance (MR) imaging studies have investigated brain area and volume measures in schizophrenia, fewer have focused on shape deformations. In this MR study we used a 3D shape representation technique, based on spherical harmonic functions, to analyze left and right amygdala-hippocampus shapes in each of 15 patients with schizophrenia and 15 healthy controls matched for age, gender, handedness and parental socioeconomic status. Left/right asymmetry was also measured for both shape and volume differences. Additionally, shape and volume measurements were combined in a composite analysis. There were no differences between groups in overall volume or shape. Left/right amygdala-hippocampal asymmetry, however, was significantly larger in patients than controls for both relative volume and shape. The local brain regions responsible for the left/right asymmetry differences in patients with schizophrenia were in the tail of the hippocampus (including both the inferior aspect adjacent to parahippocampal gyrus and the superior aspect adjacent to the lateral geniculate nucleus and more anteriorly to the cerebral peduncles) and in portions of the amygdala body (including the anterior-superior aspect adjacent to the basal nucleus). Also, in patients, increased volumetric asymmetry tended to be correlated with increased left/right shape asymmetry. Furthermore, a combined analysis of volume and shape asymmetry resulted in improved differentiation between groups. Classification function analyses correctly classified 70% of cases using volume, 73.3% using shape, and 87% using combined volume and shape measures. These findings suggest that shape provides important new information toward characterizing the pathophysiology of schizophrenia, and that combining volume and shape measures provides improved group discrimination in studies investigating brain abnormalities in schizophrenia. An evaluation of shape deformations also suggests local abnormalities in the amygdala-hippocampal complex in schizophrenia.
We report here a new example in which glucocorticoids (GCs) acted in a rapid, nongenomic way. In rat B103 neuroblastoma cells, 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT) was found to evoke an immediate rise in intracellular free calcium concentration ([Ca(2+)](i)). Pre-incubation of B103 cells for 5 min with corticosterone (B) or bovine serum albumin-conjugated corticosterone (B-BSA) concentration-dependently (10(-4)-10(-8) M) inhibited the peak increments in [Ca(2+)](i). Cortisol and dexamethasone had a similar effect, while deoxycorticosterone and cholesterol were ineffective. This rapid inhibitory effect of corticosterone could be mimicked by protein kinase C (PKC) activator phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate (PMA) and abolished completely by PKC inhibitors Ro31-8220 or GF-109203X. Neither pertussis toxin (PTX) nor nuclear GC receptor (GR) antagonist RU38486 influenced the rapid action of B. Our results suggest that GCs can modulate the 5-HT-induced Ca(2+) response in B103 cells in a membrane-initiated, nongenomic, and PKC-dependent manner.
A high-throughput screening method has been developed which enables functional analysis of bacteriorhodpsin in whole cell pastes. Reflectance spectra, from as little as 5 ml of Halobacterium salinarum cells, show close correspondence to that obtained from the purified purple membrane (PM), containing bacteriorhodopsin (BR) as the sole protein component. We demonstrate accurate quantification of BR accumulation by ratiometric analysis of BR (A(max) 568) and a membrane-bound cytochrome (A(max) 410). In addition, ground-state light- and dark-adapted (LA and DA, respectively) spectral differences were determined with high accuracy and precision. Using cells expressing the BR mutant D85N, we monitored transitions between intermediate-state homologues of the reprotonation phase of the light-activated proton pumping mechanism. We demonstrate that phenotypes of three mutants (D85N/T170C, D85N/D96N, and D85N/R82Q) previously characterized for their effect on photocycle transitions are reproduced in the whole cell samples. D85N/T170C stabilizes accumulation of the N state while D85N/D96N accumulates no N state. D85N/R82Q was found to have perturbed the pK(a) of M accumulation. These studies illustrate the correspondence between pH-dependent ground-state transitions accessed by D85N and the transitions accessed by the wild-type protein following photoexcitation. We demonstrate that whole cell reflectance spectroscopy can be used to efficiently characterize the large numbers of mutants generated by engineering strategies that exploit saturation mutagenesis.
The kinetics of the nicotinic acetylcholine receptor (AChR) channel were analysed in the presence of hydrocortisone (HC, 100-400 microM), an electrically neutral steroid. The channel open time decreased, and in contrast to control conditions did not show any voltage dependency. However, HC induced a new (blocked) component in the closed time distribution, with a time constant that decreased with membrane hyperpolarization. HC decreased also, in a concentration-dependent way, the open time per burst. After coupling HC to bovine serum albumin, to restrict the place of steroid action at the external surface of the membrane, a voltage dependency of steroid action persisted. The effects of HC on the open and blocked time constants did not depend on agonist concentration, but was dependent on the type of agonist used (acetylcholine or nicotine). These results support the hypothesis that HC molecules bind near the agonist binding site.
The giant reticulospinal synapse in lamprey provides a unique model to study synaptic vesicle traffic. The axon permits microinjections, and the active zones are often separated from each other, which makes it possible to track vesicle cycling at individual release sites. However, the proportion of reticulospinal synapses with individual active zones (&quot;simple synapses&quot;) is unknown and a quantitative description of their organization is lacking. Here, we report such data obtained by serial section analysis, intermediate-voltage electron microscopy, and electron tomography. The simple synapse was the most common type (78%). It consisted of one active zone contacting one dendritic process. The remaining synapses were &quot;complex,&quot; mostly containing one vesicle cluster and two to three active zones synapsing with distinct dendritic shafts. Occasional axosomatic synapses with multiple active zones forming synapses with the same cell were also observed. The vast majority of active zones in all synapse types contained both chemical and electrotonic synaptic specializations. Quantitative analysis of simple synapses showed that the majority had active zones with a diameter of 0.8-1.8 microm. The number of synaptic vesicles and the height of the vesicle cluster in middle sections of serially cut synapses correlated with the active zone length within, but not above, this size range. Electron tomography of simple synapses revealed small filaments between the clustered synaptic vesicles. A single vesicle could be in contact with up to 12 filaments. Another type of filament, also associated with synaptic vesicles, emerged from dense projections. Up to six filaments could be traced from one dense projection.
A detailed quantitative description of modifications in neuronal architecture is an important prerequisite to investigate the signals underlying behaviorally relevant changes in neuronal shape. Extensive morphological remodeling of neurons occurs during the metamorphosis of holometabolous insects, such as Manduca sexta, in which new adult behaviors develop postembryonically. In this study, a morphometric analysis of the structural changes of an identified Manduca motoneuron, MN5, was conducted by sampling its metric parameters at different developmental stages. The remodeling of MN5 is divided into three main phases. The regression of most larval dendrites (1) is followed by the formation of dendritic growth-cones (2), and subsequently, adult dendrite formation (3). In contrast, the cell body and link segment surface increase during dendritic regression and regrowth, indicating that different cell compartments receive different signals, or respond differently to the same signal. During dendritic growth-cone formation, the growth of the cell body and the link segment are arrested. Sholl and branch frequency analysis suggest two different modes of dendritic growth. During a first growth-cone-dependent phase, new branch formation occurs at all dendrites. The maximum path length of the major dendritic tree changes little, whereas branch order increases from 20 to 45. Changes in total dendritic length are correlated with strong changes in the number of nodes but with minor changes in the average dendritic segment length, indicating a mode of growth similar to that induced by steroid hormone application to cultured motoneurons. The second phase is growth-cone-independent, and branching is limited to high order dendrites.
This study was designed to determine whether there is a functional relationship between cfos expression in vasoactive intestinal peptide (VIP) -containing neurons of the suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN) and Fos-related antigens (FRAs) expression in neuroendocrine dopaminergic neurons of the arcuate (ARN) and periventricular (PeVN) nuclei of the hypothalamus. Brains were obtained from ovariectomized (OVX) female rats killed at 12:00 AM, 7:00 AM, 9:00 AM, 12:00 PM, and 7:00 PM (12 hours illumination beginning 6:00 AM). Antibodies against FRAs and tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) identified activated neuroendocrine dopaminergic neurons. Antibodies against cfos and VIP identified activated VIP-immunoreactive (IR) neurons in the SCN. The proportion of neuroendocrine dopaminergic neurons in the ARN and PeVN expressing FRAs was greatest and equivalent at 7:00 AM, 9:00 AM, 12:00 PM, and 12:00 AM. At 7:00 PM, the proportion of neuroendocrine dopaminergic neurons expressing FRAs was significantly lower than all other time points. In the SCN, a subpopulation of VIP-IR neurons maximally expressed cfos at 7:00 AM, which decreased through 9:00 AM. cFos was not expressed at 7:00 PM and 12:00 AM in VIP-IR neurons. Antisense VIP oligonucleotides were injected into the SCN to determine whether attenuation of VIP expression disturbs rhythms in neuroendocrine dopaminergic neuronal activity. OVX rats were infused with either antisense VIP oligonucleotides or scrambled sequence oligonucleotides bilaterally (0.5 microg in 0.5 microl of saline per side) in the SCN. Animals were killed 34 hours (7:00 PM) and 46 hours (7:00 AM) after receiving infusions, and brains were recovered. Administration of antisense VIP oligonucleotides decreased VIP protein expression in the SCN and prevented the decrease in the percentage of neuroendocrine dopaminergic neurons expressing FRAs at 7:00 PM but did not affect FRAs expression at 7:00 AM when compared with animals receiving scrambled oligonucleotides. These data suggest that VIP fibers from the SCN may relay time-of-day information to neuroendocrine dopaminergic neurons to inhibit their activity and, thus, initiate prolactin release in the evening.
