

Conjoint analysis (CA) has emerged as an important approach to the assessment of health service preferences. This article examines Adaptive Choice-Based Conjoint Analysis (ACBC) and reviews available evidence comparing ACBC with conventional approaches to CA. ACBC surveys more closely approximate the decision-making processes that influence real-world choices. Informants begin ACBC surveys by completing a build-your-own (BYO) task identifying the level of each attribute that they prefer. The ACBC software composes a series of attribute combinations clustering around each participant's BYO choices. During the Screener section, informants decide whether each of these concepts is a possibility or not. Probe questions determine whether attribute levels consistently included in or excluded from each informant's Screener section choices reflect 'Unacceptable' or 'Must Have' simplifying heuristics. Finally, concepts identified as possibilities during the Screener section are carried forward to a Choice Tournament. The winning concept in each Choice Tournament set advances to the next choice set until a winner is determined.A review of randomized trials and cross-over studies suggests that, although ACBC surveys require more time than conventional approaches to CA, informants find ACBC surveys more engaging. In most studies, ACBC surveys yield lower standard errors, improved prediction of hold-out task choices, and better estimates of real-world product decisions than conventional choice-based CA surveys.
Epileptic neurological disorders in infants are often difficult to distinguish, and call for disparate treatments. Positron emission tomography (PET) using an [18F] fluoro-2-deoxyglucose (18FDG) tracer, is a powerful non-invasive technique successful in improving the diagnosis of a number of conditions. Interestingly, this technique has shown that cerebral glucose hypometabolism is present in children with epileptic encephalopathies (EE). Ten children with age-dependent EE were recruited and routine 18FDG PET images were evaluated for their ability to indicate cerebral glucose metabolism both before and after anti-epileptic treatment. We found that there is diffuse glucose hypometabolism in both hemispheres before treatment, indicating EE. Following treatment, the number of epileptic episodes significantly decreased (P &lt; 0.05), while cerebral glucose metabolism improved. Our findings suggest that 18FDG PET can be utilized to monitor cerebral glucose metabolism as a measure of treatment progress in EE.
The neuropeptide galanin extensively coexists with norepinephrine in locus coeruleus (LC) neurons. Previous research in this laboratory has demonstrated that unlimited access to activity wheels in the home cage increases mRNA for galanin (GAL) in the LC, and that GAL mediates some of the beneficial effects of exercise on brain function. To assess whether capacity for aerobic exercise modulates this upregulation in galanin mRNA, three heterogeneous rat models were tested: rats selectively bred for (1) high intrinsic (untrained) aerobic capacity (High Capacity Runners, HCR) and (2) low intrinsic aerobic capacity (Low Capacity Runners, LCR) and (3) unselected Sprague-Dawley (SD) rats with and without free access to running wheels for 3 weeks. Following this exercise protocol, mRNA for tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) and GAL was measured in the LC. The wheel running distances between the three models were significantly different, and age contributed as a significant covariate. Both selection and wheel access condition significantly affected GAL mRNA expression, but not TH mRNA expression. GAL was elevated in exercising HCR and SD rats compared to sedentary rats while LCR rats did not differ between conditions. Overall running distance significantly correlated with GAL mRNA expression, but not with TH mRNA expression. No strain differences in GAL or TH gene expression were observed in sedentary rats. Thus, intrinsic aerobic running capacity influences GAL gene expression in the LC only insofar as actual running behavior is concerned; aerobic capacity does not influence GAL expression in addition to changes associated with running.
The feed-forward relationship naturally observed in time-dependent processes and in a diverse number of real systems-such as some food webs and electronic and neural wiring-can be described in terms of the so-called directed acyclic graphs (DAGs). An important ingredient of the analysis of such networks is a proper comparison of their observed architecture against an ensemble of randomized graphs, thereby quantifying the randomness of the real systems with respect to suitable null models. This approximation is particularly relevant when the finite size and/or large connectivity of real systems make inadequate a comparison with the predictions obtained from the so-called configuration model. In this paper we analyze two methods of DAG randomization as defined by the desired combination of two topological invariants (directed degree sequence and component distributions) aimed to be preserved. A highly ordered DAG, called snake graph, and an Erds-Rnyi DAG were used to validate the performance of the algorithms. Finally, three real case studies, namely, the C. elegans cell lineage network, a Ph.D. student-supervisor network, and the Milgram's citation network, were analyzed using each randomization method. Results show how the interpretation of degree-degree relations in DAGs with respect to their randomized ensembles depends on the topological invariants imposed.
Therapeutic approaches in the pediatric population have generally been less aggressive than those implemented for younger and older adults. Several factors contribute to this, starting with the challenge of engaging infants in the &quot;goal&quot; of therapy, their resistance to initiating behaviors that are uncomfortable or fatiguing, the desire to make therapy as functionally relevant as possible when many functional skills have yet to emerge, and residual history of outdated theoretical concepts. On the practical side of who will pay for this more aggressive approach, there is limited empirical evidence based on randomized controlled trials to convince third-party payers to fund more extensive services. This article outlines a theoretical perspective prominent in developmental science that argues not only for the importance of frequent bouts of functionally relevant activity on the self-organization of behavioral patterns, but also for the impact that should be expected from the use of rigorous interventions on underlying subsystems, such as neural organization, that support these outcomes. In order to propose some future opportunities for clinical research and application, examples from recent activity-based clinical studies are presented, along with theoretical principles, neuroscience, and other tissue science data concerning mechanisms that contribute to behavioral changes. One such opportunity is to increase the structured engagement of caregivers, guided by therapists, in administering well-defined activity intervention programs focused on the development of specific functional skills. Such an approach may be one of the few financially feasible options for generating sufficient therapy that adheres to principles for optimizing development of neuromotor control.
Studies of olfactory learning in Drosophila have provided key insights into the brain mechanisms underlying learning and memory. One type of olfactory learning, olfactory classical conditioning, consists of learning the contingency between an odor with an aversive or appetitive stimulus. This conditioning requires the activity of molecules that can integrate the two types of sensory information, the odorant as the conditioned stimulus and the aversive or appetitive stimulus as the unconditioned stimulus, in brain regions where the neural pathways for the two stimuli intersect. Compelling data indicate that a particular form of adenylyl cyclase functions as a molecular integrator of the sensory information in the mushroom body neurons. The neuronal pathway carrying the olfactory information from the antennal lobes to the mushroom body is well described. Accumulating data now show that some dopaminergic neurons provide information about aversive stimuli and octopaminergic neurons about appetitive stimuli to the mushroom body neurons. Inhibitory inputs from the GABAergic system appear to gate olfactory information to the mushroom bodies and thus control the ability to learn about odors. Emerging data obtained by functional imaging procedures indicate that distinct memory traces form in different brain regions and correlate with different phases of memory. The results from these and other experiments also indicate that cross talk between mushroom bodies and several other brain regions is critical for memory formation.

Decades of basic science have clearly demonstrated the capacity of the central nervous system (CNS) to structurally and functionally adapt in response to experience. The field of neurorehabilitation has begun to use this body of work to develop neurobiologically informed therapies that harness the key behavioral and neural signals that drive neural plasticity. The present review describes how neural plasticity supports both learning in the intact CNS and functional improvement in the damaged or diseased CNS. A pragmatic, interdisciplinary definition of neural plasticity is presented that may be used by both clinical and basic scientists studying neurorehabilitation. Furthermore, a description of how neural plasticity may act to drive different neural strategies underlying functional improvement after CNS injury or disease is provided. The understanding of the relationship between these different neural strategies, mechanisms of neural plasticity, and changes in behavior may facilitate the development of novel, more effective rehabilitation interventions.


Despite all the recent progress in neuroscience, we still do not understand the basic principles according to which the brain functions. This may be due, at least in part, to our lack of knowledge how the brain's intrinsic activity, the brain's input, impacts stimulus-induced changes in the brain. We here discuss the neuronal, experimental and methodological relevance of the brain's resting state activity for future studies. Furthermore, we make several suggestions how to best define and include the brain's resting state into our experimental designs. We conclude that experimental consideration of the brain's resting state has major implications for setting up experimental designs and methodological strategies. This may also shed new light on some hitherto unresolved questions like the neuroscientific mechanisms underlying consciousness and psychiatric disorders.
Olfactory ensheathing cells (OECs) constitute a unique population of glia that accompany and ensheath the primary olfactory axons. They are thought to be critical for spontaneous growth of olfactory axons within the developing and adult olfactory nervous system, and have recently emerged as potential candidates for cell-mediated repair of neural injuries. Here, based on the current research, we give an overview of the biology of OECs in neural development and regeneration. This review starts with a detailed description of the cellular and molecular biological properties of OECs. Their functions in olfactory neurogenesis, olfactory axonal growth and olfactory bulb formation are sequently discussed. We also describe therapeutic applications of OECs for the treatment of a variety of neural lesions, including spinal cord injury, stroke, degenerative diseases, and PNS injuries. Finally, we address issues that may foster a better understanding of OECs in neural development and regeneration.
The neurotrophin brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) plays a key role in synaptic plasticity, in part due to changes in local protein synthesis. Activation of TrkB (tropomyosin-related kinase B) receptors for BDNF triggers several parallel signaling pathways, including the Ras/ERK, the phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (PI3-K) and the phospholipase C- pathways. Recent studies have elucidated some of the signaling mechanisms that contribute to the regulation of translation activity by BDNF, through modulation of initiation and elongation phases, but the resulting changes in the proteome are not yet fully characterized. The proteins synthesized in response to activation of TrkB receptors by BDNF depend on the mRNAs that are available locally, after delivery and transport along dendrites. Recent studies have shown that BDNF may also play a regulatory role at this level. Furthermore, BDNF regulates transcription activity, thereby affecting the array of mRNAs available to be transported along dendrites. This review highlights the recent advances in the understanding of the diversity of mechanisms that contribute to the regulation of the synaptic proteome by BDNF, which may account for its role in synaptic plasticity.
The involvement of phospholipase A(2) (PLA(2)) in Alzheimer disease (AD) was first investigated nearly 15 years ago. Over the years, several PLA(2) isoforms have been detected in brain tissue: calcium-dependent secreted PLA(2) or sPLA(2) (IIA, IIC, IIE, V, X, and XII), calcium-dependent cytosolic PLA(2) or cPLA(2) (IVA, IVB, and IVC), and calcium-independent PLA(2) or iPLA(2) (VIA and VIB). Additionally, numerous in vivo and in vitro studies have suggested the role of different brain PLA(2) in both physiological and pathological events. This review aimed to summarize the findings in the literature relating the different brain PLA(2) isoforms with alterations found in AD, such as neuronal cell death and impaired neurogenesis process. The review showed that sPLA(2)-IIA, sPLA(2)-V and cPLA(2)-IVA are involved in neuronal death, whereas sPLA(2)-III and sPLA(2)-X are related to the process of neurogenesis, and that the cPLA(2) and iPLA(2) groups can be involved in both neuronal death and neurogenesis. In AD, there are reports of reduced activity of the cPLA(2) and iPLA(2) groups and increased expression of sPLA(2)-IIA and cPLA(2)-IVA. The findings suggest that the inhibition of cPLA(2) and iPLA(2) isoforms (yet to be determined) might contribute to impaired neurogenesis, whereas stimulation of sPLA(2)-IIA and cPLA(2)-IVA might contribute to neurodegeneration in AD.
Cholecystokinin (CCK) gene and its receptors play an important role in several biological processes including satiety signaling. Administration of exogenous or endogenously secreted CCK leads to decreased food intake in both rats and humans. Similarly, in rats pretreated with intraperitoneal CCK, antagonists of the CCKA receptor prevent decrease in food intake. The CCKB receptor plays an important role in anxiety and gastric acid secretion. We investigated the role of polymorphisms in the CCK gene (2 SNPs) and its receptors CCKA (4 SNPs) and CCKB (4SNPs, 1 microsatellite, CTn) in antipsychotic induced weight gain (n=215). Weight change (%) from baseline was compared across genotypic groups using analysis of covariance. In the European ancestry patients treated with clozapine or olanzapine a trend of association was observed with the SNP rs2929183 (p=0.10) in CCKBR gene. Carriers of the genotype AA (3.23%4.8) gained less weight than the AG and GG genotypes (6.50%6.5; p=0.035). A similar trend was observed for the CTn repeat, where carriers of the LL genotype gained less weight (3.73%5.41) than the S allele carrying genotypes (6.29%6.2, p=0.05). In the subjects of African ancestry we observed similar marginal association although with the opposite allele. However, none of these observations would survive corrections for multiple testing. None of the other polymorphisms in either CCK or CCKA receptor genes was associated with weight change (%). In conclusion, CCKB receptor gene may play a role in antipsychotic induced weight gain. However, these observations need to be replicated in a larger and independent sample set.
Statins have been widely used for the treatment of a variety of medical conditions including psychoneurological disorders beyond their original use in lowering cholesterol. Histamine receptors play an important role in the regulation of neural activity, however, it is unknown whether statins act on histamine receptors, particularly for their neural regulatory effects. This study examined the effects of simvastatin and 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA) lesions on histamine H1 receptors using [(3)H] pyrilamine binding autoradiography. Compared to the saline group, simvastatin (1 mg/kg/day) significantly decreased H1 receptor bindings in the primary motor cortex (M1), ventromedial hypothalamic nucleus (VMH), caudate putamen (CPu), accumbens core (AcbC) and prefrontal cortex (PfC) (all p&lt;0.05); however 10 mg/kg/day simvastatin increased H1 receptor density only in the medial amygdaloid nucleus (Mep) (p&lt;0.05), but had no significant effect in other regions examined. The 6-OHDA lesion did not alter H1 receptor binding density in most brain areas, except a trend decrease in the hippocampus (p=0.07) and a trend increase in the cingulate cortex (p=0.06). These results suggested that simvastatin has different effects on the H1 receptors in different rat brain regions depending on the doses. Therefore, simvastatin can modulate histaminergic neurotransmission in the brain, and support the role of H1 receptors in psychoneurological disorders.

Children and adolescents with congenital limb deficiencies are visibly and physically different from their peers. They present limitations in activities, depending on the severity of deficiency. Therefore they are at risk for lower participation in social and leisure activities. This might negatively influence the perception on their quality of life. The aim of this narrative review is to describe participation and quality of life in children with congenital limb deficiencies. Participation and quality of life are relatively new concepts. Psychosocial functioning, being closely related to the concept of quality of life, is described as well. A comprehensive review of the literature was conducted on participation, quality of life and psychosocial functioning in children and adolescents with congenital limb deficiencies. The review involved a systematic search using multiple data sources. Fifteen cross-sectional studies were included in this review. The literature to date provides limited knowledge on how children and adolescents with congenital limb deficiencies participate and how they perceive their quality of life. The psychosocial functioning, although described as at risk, appears to be comparable to healthy peers. In conclusion, more research is needed on how children and adolescents with congenital limb deficiencies participate and how they perceive their quality of life. A broader perspective will not only help parents in making the right choices for their children, but can also have implications for health care providers, teachers and agencies funding rehabilitation services.
Traumatic brain injury has received significant attention in recent years. Advances in diagnosis and management have resulted in opportunities to improve patient outcomes; however, controversies in diagnosis and management have resulted in increased interactions between the medical and legal communities. This article highlights some of the areas of controversy in traumatic brain injury litigation with the hope that synchronous resolutions of both legal and medical issues will ultimately benefit patient care. It is imperative that the neuroscience community engage the legal community to facilitate an understanding of the issues and their ramifications. Proactive communication and understanding between medical and legal specialties offer the potential to maximize efficiencies in our health care and legal systems.
A hundred years after psychoanalysis was introduced, neuroscience has taken a giant step forward. It seems nowadays that effects of psychotherapy could be monitored and measured by state-of-the art brain imaging techniques. Today, the psychotherapy is considered as a strategic and purposeful environmental influence intended to enhance learning. Since gene expression is regulated by environmental influences throughout life and these processes create brain architecture and influence the strength of synaptic connections, psychotherapy (as a kind of learning) should be explored in the context of aforementioned paradigm. In other words, when placing a client on the couch, therapist actually placed client's neuronal network; while listening and talking, expressing and analyzing, experiencing transference and counter transference, therapist tends to stabilize synaptic connections and influence dendritic growth by regulating gene-transcriptional activity. Therefore, we strongly believe that, in the near future, an increasing knowledge on cellular and molecular interactions and mechanisms of action of different psycho- and pharmaco-therapeutic procedures will enable us to tailor a sophisticated therapeutic approach toward a person, by combining major therapeutic strategies in psychiatry on the basis of rational goals and evidence-based therapeutic expectations.

Neuronal plasticity induced by changes in synaptic morphology and function is well known to play a pivotal role in leaning and memory as well as adaptation to stress. It is suggested that these plastic changes are due to orchestration of alterations in gene expression in the brain. Recent advances in molecular biology have provided evidence that epigenetic mechanisms, such as DNA methylation and histone modification, are crucial to gene transcription in the mammalian brain. Our research group has recently investigated the involvement of histone actylation at the promoter of the brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) gene in stress-induced reduction in BDNF, as well as in fear conditioning-induced enhancement of BDNF, in the rat hippocampus. The results of the stress study demonstrated that single-immobilization stress significantly reduced the levels of total, exon I, and exon IV BDNF mRNA, and also significantly reduced acetylation levels of histone H3, but not H4, at the promoter of exons I, IV, and VI. The results of the fear conditioning study showed that footshock stress significantly increased the levels of total, exon I, and exon IV BDNF mRNA, with significantly increased acetylation levels of both histone H3 and H4, at the promoter of exons I and IV, followed by enhanced freezing to fear-context exposure. These findings suggest that changes in BDNF transcription in the rat hippocampus in response to stressful stimuli are, at least in part, regulated by histone acetylation status.
This study examined putative subtypes of pathological gamblers (PGs) based on the Pathways model, and it also evaluated whether the subtypes would benefit differentially from treatment. Treatment-seeking PGs (N = 229) were categorized into Pathways subtypes based on scores from questionnaires assessing anxiety, depression, and impulsivity. The Addiction Severity Index-Gambling assessed severity of gambling problems at baseline, posttreatment, and 12-month follow-up. Compared with behaviorally conditioned (BC) gamblers, emotionally vulnerable (EV) gamblers had higher psychiatric and gambling severity, and were more likely to have a parent with a psychiatric history. Antisocial impulsive (AI) gamblers also had elevated gambling and psychiatric severity relative to BC gamblers. They were more likely to have antisocial personality disorder and had the highest legal and family/social severity scores. They were also most likely to have a history of substance abuse treatment, history of inpatient psychiatric treatment, and a parent with a substance use or gambling problem. AI and EV gamblers experienced greater gambling severity throughout treatment than BC gamblers, but all three subtypes demonstrated similar patterns of treatment response. Thus, the three Pathways subtypes differ on some baseline characteristics, but subtyping did not predict treatment outcomes beyond a simple association with problem gambling severity.
Efficient navigation of our social world depends on the generation, interpretation, and combination of social signals within different sensory systems. However, the influence of healthy adult aging on multisensory integration of emotional stimuli remains poorly explored. This article comprises 2 studies that directly address issues of age differences on cross-modal emotional matching and explicit identification. The first study compared 25 younger adults (19-40 years) and 25 older adults (60-80 years) on their ability to match cross-modal congruent and incongruent emotional stimuli. The second study looked at performance of 20 younger (19-40) and 20 older adults (60-80) on explicit emotion identification when information was presented congruently in faces and voices or only in faces or in voices. In Study 1, older adults performed as well as younger adults on tasks in which congruent auditory and visual emotional information were presented concurrently, but there were age-related differences in matching incongruent cross-modal information. Results from Study 2 indicated that though older adults were impaired at identifying emotions from 1 modality (faces or voices alone), they benefited from congruent multisensory information as age differences were eliminated. The findings are discussed in relation to social, emotional, and cognitive changes with age.
To assess whether age-related differences in suppressing nontarget material impact subsequent performance, the authors initially asked younger and older adults to perform a go/nogo task with colored letters used as conflicting go/nogo stimuli and 2 colored numbers as low-conflict nogo stimuli. Next, participants performed another go/nogo task. A previous number was reused as a nogo stimulus and the other as a go stimulus, with new numbers serving as a baseline. In a 1st block of trials, younger adults showed slower responses to previous nogo/now-go numbers than to new go numbers, an effect not shown by older adults. Alternative accounts of these differential transfer costs are discussed.

Okanda, et al. (2010) reported new evidence concerning associations between language ability, bilingualism, and executive functioning early in development. The paper adds to a growing body of literature suggesting that bilingualism is associated with advantages in executive functioning generally, and the Dimensional Change Card Sort task in particular. However, as with all findings that hinge on between-group comparisons, there is a need to exercise caution before drawing firm conclusions about the effects of bilingualism on the development of executive control. Several lines of recent evidence are outlined that challenge key assumptions underlying the standard account of the bilingual advantage. Okanda, et al.'s findings are discussed in light of this evidence.
To evaluate the psychometric characteristics of the Swedish version of the Junior Temperament and Character Inventory (J-TCI), it was sent to parents of 9- and 12-yr.-old twins in Sweden. The final number of responders was 196 parents who rated 92 female and 104 male twin pairs. The inventory of one twin, randomly chosen from each pair, was included in the analyses. Reward Dependence, Persistence, and Cooperativeness were scored higher in girls; Novelty Seeking was higher in the 9-yr.-olds and Persistence in the 12-yr.-olds. Pearson's correlations showed that some dimensions were not statistically independent from each other, even if the covariance was moderate. Internal consistency (Cronbach's alpha) was satisfactory for Harm Avoidance, Novelty Seeking, Self-Directedness, and Cooperativeness (.68-.81), while it was lower in those dimensions that had fewer items. The Swedish parent version of the J-TCI shared about the same psychometric characteristics as found in international samples.
Teaching children requires effort, and some children naturally require more effort than others. In this study, we tested whether teacher effort devoted to individual children varies as a function of each child's personal characteristics. In a nationwide longitudinal study of 1,102 pairs of twins followed for 7 years, between the ages of 5 and 12 years, we asked teachers about the effort they invested in each child in our study. We found that teacher effort was a function of heritable child characteristics, that a child's challenging behavior assessed at 5 years of age predicted teacher effort toward the same child at 12 years of age, and that challenging child behavior and teacher effort share a common etiology with respect to children's genes. We found that child effects accounted for a significant proportion of variance in teacher effort, but also observed variation in effort exerted by teachers that could not be attributed to children's behavior. Treating children who exhibit challenging behavior and enhancing teachers' skills in managing such behavior could increase the time and energy teachers have to deliver their curriculum in class.
Social power affects the manner in which people view themselves and act toward others, a finding that has attracted broad interest from the social and political sciences. However, there has been little interest from those within cognitive neuroscience. Here, we demonstrate that the effects of power extend beyond social interaction and invoke elementary spatial biases in behavior consistent with preferential hemispheric activation. In particular, participants who felt relatively powerless, compared with those who felt more powerful, were more likely to bisect horizontal lines to the left of center, and bump into the right-hand (as opposed to the left-hand) side when walking through a narrow passage. These results suggest that power induces hemispheric differences in visuomotor behavior, indicating that this ubiquitous phenomenon affects not only how we interact with one another, but also how we interact with the physical world.







The fetal midbrain is a preferred source for isolating and producing dopaminergic neurons for subsequent grafting and replacement of damaged or lost dopaminergic midbrain neurons. We analysed the potential of a variety of nucleotides and of adenosine to support dopaminergic neuron formation from primary mouse fetal midbrain-derived cells, harvested at E10.5 and at E13.5 and subjected to adherent cell culture. In contrast to cells derived at E13.5, cells derived at E10.5 have the potential to produce dopaminergic neurons in culture. These neurons express tyrosine hydroxylase and the dopamine transporter. The fetal ventral midbrain contained mRNA encoding almost all P2X and P2Y receptors, all adenosine receptors as well as the ectonucleotidases nucleoside triphosphate diphosphohydrolase 2 and tissue nonspecific alkaline phosphatase. Essentially, all components of the purinergic signalling pathway were also expressed by the cultured cells. ATP, ADPS, 2MeSATP, 2ClATP and adenosine increased neuron formation. There was, however, no preference for the formation of dopaminergic neurons-with the exception of 2ClATP that increased the relative contribution of tyrosine hydroxylase-positive neurons. In cells isolated at E13.5 UTP promoted neuron survival but ADPS and ATPS essentially eliminated neurons. These data showed that the outcome of nucleotide application was different even though cells isolated at E10.5 and E13.5 expressed very similar receptor mRNA profiles. They suggest that purinergic agonists carry potential for stimulating neurogenesis and enriching the contribution of dopaminergic neurons in vitro. Nucleotide receptor agonists may be of value for contributing to the formation and survival of dopaminergic neurons in vivo.
While most authors now agree that the language production system is in principle cascaded, the strength with which cascaded lemma-to-phoneme activation typically occurs is debated. Picture naming has been shown to be facilitated by phonologically related distractor pictures, but no such facilitation from pictures has been shown for word reading. Picture-picture paradigms have recently been suggested to represent an attentionally facilitated and unusually strong case of cascaded phonological facilitation, not typical of a more general weakly cascaded production system. We used a novel procedure based on picture-word interference paradigms, where participants made speeded verbal free association responses to presented words, with irrelevant picture distractors that were phonologically related to their predicted high-associate responses. Phonological facilitation effects from related picture names were observed on free associate verbal production latencies. These findings represent a far more general demonstration of routine cascaded language production and suggest that the strength and extent of cascaded activation is more substantial than that suggested by traditional picture-word paradigms.
Subarachnoid hemorrhage due to spontaneous rupture of a cerebral aneurysm is associated with high rates of morbidity and mortality and requires multidisciplinary treatment. The debate on surgical vs endovascular treatment continues, although short-term clinical outcomes and survival rates are better after endovascular treatment. In Spain, a strong trend toward reduced use of clipping has been noted, and neuroanesthetists are less often called on to provide anesthesia in this setting. Our intervention, however, can be decisive. The neuroscience working group of the Sociedad Espaola de Anestesiologa, Reanimacin y Teraputica del Dolor has developed guidelines for managing anesthesia in these procedures. Based on a national survey and a systematic review of the literature, the recommendations emphasize the importance of ensuring appropriate intracranial conditions, treating complications, and taking steps to protect against cerebral hemorrhage.
Disturbance in the integration of visual information is one of the hallmarks of schizophrenia. In the spatial domain, visual integration is compromised, resulting in impaired perceptual grouping and contour integration. In the time domain, in contrast, visual integration is enhanced, as manifested by increased backward masking and lower ability of patients to detect successively presented visual stimuli as asynchronous. There is much evidence that integrative processes in the brain are supported by dynamic synchronization, or phase-locking, of neural firing. In particular, synchrony in the gamma band (&gt;30 Hz) has been related to local visual information binding whereas synchrony in lower frequencies has been linked to global-scale integration. We recorded EEG signals evoked by steady-state gamma-frequency (40 Hz) photic stimulation in order to directly test the phase-locking of neural responses in schizophrenia. Compared with healthy control subjects, patients showed higher phase-locking of early evoked activity in the gamma band (36-44 Hz) over the posterior cortex, but lower phase-locking in theta (4-8 Hz), alpha (8-13 Hz) and beta (13-24 Hz) frequencies over the anterior cortex. Phase-locking of evoked responses separated schizophrenia and control subjects with accuracy of 86%. This result suggests that schizophrenia is associated with an enhanced early low-level integration in the visual cortex but a deficient high-level integration of visual information within the brain global workspace.
Whilst visual backward masking deficits in schizophrenia have been reliably reported and may reveal magnocellular dysfunction, forward masking, which may rely more heavily on the parvocellular system, has been under investigated. In a group of 64 schizophrenia patients and 65 matched controls we undertook a visual masking paradigm containing both conditions, together with tests of 'global motion' and 'global form' perception, two 'down-stream' visual tasks reflecting later processing linked to magnocellular and parvocellular function respectively. In the patient group, a significant but small deficit on the masking task, equivalent across forward and backward conditions was seen. Correlations between the masking and motion/form tasks supported the predominant theoretical framework describing the neural processes involved in masking. Performance on the motion and form tasks was differentiated by a trend-level motion processing deficit but near-normal form processing. The results suggest an 'early visual' processing deficit in both magno- and parvocellular systems but one which is only transferred to 'down-stream' processing areas with predominantly magnocellular input.

Neuregulin-1 (Nrg1) provides a key axonal signal that regulates Schwann cell proliferation, migration and myelination through binding to ErbB2/3 receptors. The analysis of a number of genetic models has unmasked fundamental mechanisms underlying the specificity of the Nrg1/ErbB signaling axis. Differential expression of Nrg1 isoforms, Nrg1 processing, and ErbB receptor localization and trafficking represent important regulatory themes in the control of Nrg1/ErbB function. Nrg1 binding to ErbB2/3 receptors results in the activation of intracellular signal transduction pathways that initiate changes in Schwann cell behavior. Here, we review data that has defined the role of key Nrg1/ErbB signaling components like Shp2, ERK1/2, FAK, Rac1/Cdc42 and calcineurin in development of the Schwann cell lineage in vivo. Many of these regulators receive converging signals from other cues that are provided by Notch, integrin or G-protein coupled receptors. Signaling by multiple extracellular factors may act as key modifiers and allow Schwann cells at different developmental stages to respond in distinct manners to the Nrg1/ErbB signal.
Tourette syndrome (TS) and stereotypy in autism spectrum disorders (ASDs) are 2 common movement disorders in childhood. The objective of this review was to summarize randomized controlled trials published over the past 5 years as an update of the current pharmacotherapeutic options for the treatment of tics, TS, and motor stereotypies in children with ASD. We searched MEDLINE (2005-May 2010) for randomized controlled trials of medications used for the treatment of these disorders. For the treatment of tics in TS, 2 trials suggest that levetiracetam is not effective, whereas 1 trial found that topiramate was effective. Single clinical trials of metoclopramide, atomoxetine, and ondansetron were of limited quality, preventing conclusions to be made regarding the usefulness of these treatments for tic disorders. For the treatment of stereotypy in children with ASD, risperidone has been shown in both a Cochrane review in 2006 and 2 subsequent randomized control trials to be effective. The addition of pentoxifylline to risperidone may have added benefit. Haloperidol did not improve stereotypy and was poorly tolerated. There is good evidence that aripiprazole is effective in the treatment of sterotypies in children with ASD. A large randomized trial of citalopram did not show any improvement in stereotypy. Single trials of levetiracetam, guanfacine, and atomoxetine suggest they are not useful in the reduction of stereotypy in children with ASD.
The article aims to address the ethical implications of therapist reactions to sexual offender treatment and, in doing so, increase awareness and understanding of the interaction between the clinician and the challenges of working with sexual offenders. The effects of providing psychological services in general, and to sexual offenders specifically, are reviewed, including the impact on services provided. Practice implications are also discussed as the authors consider the negative effects (e.g., burnout) that therapists experience due to treatment quality and the ethical issues and responsibilities surrounding clinical reactions. Finally, the authors summarize research on self-care and practice recommendations for effectively and ethically working with sexual offenders.

Moral judgment is an evaluation of the actions and character of a person made with respect to societal norms. Although many types of vignettes have been used in previous studies on moral beliefs and judgment, what is missing is a set of standardized common vignettes based in real life. The goal of this study was to provide researchers with stimuli that have values on several dimensions pertaining to moral judgment and whose underlying components are known. These values will allow researchers to select stimuli based on standardized ratings rather than on the results of pilot studies, while avoiding the limitations of the classic, abstract moral scenarios. Our study was composed of three phases, (i) collecting and shortening the vignettes, (ii) obtaining ratings of the vignettes on several dimensions including emotional intensity, degree of social norm violation, and level of harm or benefit caused and (iii) determining the underlying components of the vignettes by performing a factor analysis. We found three components that accounted for most of the variance: norm violation, social affect and intention. The resulting vignettes can be used in future parametric studies on moral judgment in behavioral, neuropsychological and functional imaging experiments.
Research into the neural underpinnings of fear and fear-related pathology has highlighted the role of the amygdala. For instance, bilateral damage to the amygdaloid complex is associated with decreased appreciation of danger and recognition of fear in humans, whereas enlarged amygdala volume is associated with internalizing syndromes. It is unknown whether amygdala volume and fearfulness are related in the absence of pathology. We examined the correlation between normal fearfulness and amygdala morphology in 116 healthy children and adolescents (60 boys, 56 girls, age 7-17 years). Fearfulness was measured using the parent ratings on the Pediatric Behavior Scale and amygdala volumes were determined by manual tracing. We found a positive correlation between right amygdala volume in girls (r = 0.29). This relationship was more robust and present bilaterally when analyses were limited to girls with a positive nuclear family history of depression (for left r = 0.63; for right r = 0.58). In boys there was no significant relationship which may suggest that biological mechanisms differ between sexes. Given the role of enlarged amygdala volume in pathology, these findings may indicate that variation in amygdala morphology marks susceptibility to internalizing disorders.
The regulation of negative emotion through reappraisal has been shown to induce increased prefrontal activity and decreased amygdala activity. Individual differences in dispositional mindfulness reflect differences in typical recognition, detachment and regulation of current experience, thought to also operate as top-down control mechanism. We sought to investigate whether such individual differences would be associated with brain activity elicited during reappraisal of negative emotion. Eighteen healthy participants completed a functional magnetic resonance imaging task that involved attending to or reappraising negative stimuli, and provided emotion experience ratings after each trial. Dispositional mindfulness was assessed with a self-report questionnaire. Reappraisal induced activity in a brain network involving predominantly dorsal portions of the prefrontal cortex, replicating previous studies. A voxelwise regression analysis showed that individual differences in the tendency to be mindful predicted activity in neural regions underlying reappraisal, with dorsomedial prefrontal cortex activation increasing with more mindfulness traits. Notably, this prefrontal activation was inversely correlated with the amygdala response to negative scenes, further supporting its role in down-regulating emotion-generation regions. These findings suggest that individual differences in dispositional mindfulness, which reflect the tendency to recognize and regulate current states, may modulate activity in neural systems involved in the effective cognitive control of negative emotion.

Increasing evidence suggests that bone marrow derived-mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) have neuroprotective properties and a major mechanism of action is through their capacity to secrete a diverse range of potentially neurotrophic or anti-oxidant factors. The recent discovery that MSCs secrete superoxide dismutase 3 (SOD3) may help explain studies in which MSCs have a direct anti-oxidant activity that is conducive to neuroprotection in both in vivo and in vitro. SOD3 attenuates tissue damage and reduces inflammation and may confer neuroprotective effects against nitric oxide-mediated stress to cerebellar neurons; but, its role in relation to central nervous system inflammation and neurodegeneration has not been extensively investigated. Here we have performed a series of experiments showing that SOD3 secretion by human bone marrow-derived MSCs is regulated synergistically by the inflammatory cytokines TNF-alpha and IFN-gamma, rather than through direct exposure to reactive oxygen species. Furthermore, we have shown SOD3 secretion by MSCs is increased by activated microglial cells. We have also shown that MSCs and recombinant SOD are able to increase both neuronal and axonal survival in vitro against nitric oxide or microglial induced damage, with an increased MSC-induced neuroprotective effect evident in the presence of inflammatory cytokines TNF-alpha and IFN-gamma. We have shown MSCs are able to convey these neuroprotective effects through secretion of soluble factors alone and furthermore demonstrated that SOD3 secretion by MSCs is, at least, partially responsible for this phenomenon. SOD3 secretion by MSCs maybe of relevance to treatment strategies for inflammatory disease of the central nervous system.
Neural progenitor cells reside in many regions of the adult brain. However, their capacity to generate new neurons relies on stem cell niches, consisting of stem cells, niche support cells, and basal lamina, which maintain stem cells and direct their differentiation and migration into tissue structures. Neurospheres are thought to expose neural progenitor cells to an environment reminiscent of the stem cell niche. We show that embryonic day 14.5 ventral mesencephalon neurospheres grafted into the midbrain of 6-hydroxydopamine lesioned mice express markers of mesenchymal cells, such as CD29 and CD44, and enclose a core of host-derived proliferating cells that express nestin, polysialic acid-neural cell adhesion molecule, III-tubulin, and neuron-specific nuclear protein. Laminin was expressed between the grafted cells and the core of proliferating host-derived cells. Further, infusion of the anti-mitotic agent -d-arabinofuroside into the midbrain resulted in the loss of host-derived core cells that gradually returned over many days following -d-arabinofuroside withdrawal. Together, these data suggest that a stem cell niche had been formed. Tyrosine hydroxylase (TH+) cells, ectopic to the usual midbrain locations, were present 4 weeks after grafting and increased in numbers up to 12 weeks after grafting, resulting in significantly more TH cells than control animals. These data provide evidence that cells within the midbrain are capable of acquiring a TH phenotype when exposed to the appropriate environment. Whether these cells are a result of neurogenesis or phenotypic shift remains unanswered.




We used an ecological paradigm and multilevel analytic techniques to analyze gender-specific relationships of cohabitation (versus marriage) to drinking in 19 countries (n = 32,922) and to &quot;heavy episodic drinking&quot; (HED) in 17 countries (n = 24,525) in surveys (1996-2004) from Gender, Alcohol, and Culture: An International Study. Cohabitation was associated with elevated risk of HED among drinkers of both genders, controlling for age, education, and societal characteristics. The association between cohabitation and HED tended to be stronger for female drinkers than for male drinkers. HED was more prevalent among younger drinkers, especially among younger women in countries with higher per capita gross domestic product. Cross-culturally, cohabiters deserve special attention in prevention efforts for hazardous drinking, considering both individual-level and societal factors.
Cannabinoid-type 1 (CB1) receptors are implicated in -opioid receptor (-OR)-dependent reward ascribed partially to mesolimbic dopamine release in the nucleus accumbens (Acb) shell. Thus, CB1 receptor gene deletion may preferentially alter the availability of -ORs and/or dopamine innervation in this brain region, which is functionally distinct from the motor-associated Acb core. To test this hypothesis, we examined the electron microscopic immunolabeling of the -OR and the dopamine-synthesizing enzyme, tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) in Acb shell, and core of adult C57BL/6J wild-type (WT) and CB1-knock-out (KO) mice. The -OR-immunogold particles were observed in the cytoplasm and on the plasmalemma in dendrites, dendritic spines, and axon terminals throughout the Acb. Compared to WT, the Acb shell of CB1-KO mice showed a lower cytoplasmic density of -ORs in dendrites and fewer -OR labeled, but not unlabeled, dendritic spines. In this region, the CB1-KO's had a significantly enhanced plasmalemmal density of -OR-immunogold in axon terminals, 70% of which formed excitatory-type synapses. However, the number of both -OR-labeled terminals and TH-labeled small varicosities was significantly reduced in the Acb shell of CB1-KO's. These adaptations were not seen in the Acb core, where CB1-KO's had a preferentially lower dendritic plasmalemmal and total spine density of -OR immunogold. Our results indicate that constitutive deletion of the CB1 receptor gene has a major impact on the pre and postsynaptic availability of -ORs at axospinous synapses and on the dopamine innervation of the Acb shell as well as the dendritic surface expression of -ORs in Acb core of mature rodents.
Gene by environment interactions (G  E) are thought to underlie neurodevelopmental disorder, etiology, neurodegenerative disorders, including the multiple forms of autism spectrum disorder. However, there is limited biological information, indicating an interaction between specific genes and environmental components. The present study focuses on a major component of airborne pollutants, polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAHs), such as benzo(a)pyrene [B(a)P], which negatively impacts cognitive development in children who have been exposed in utero. In our study, prenatal exposure of Cpr(lox/lox) timed-pregnant dams to B(a)P (0, 150, 300, and 600 g/kg body weight via oral gavage) on embryonic day (E14-E17) consistent with our susceptibility-exposure paradigm was combined with the analysis of a replicated autism risk gene, the receptor tyrosine kinase, Met. The results demonstrate a dose-dependent increase in B(a)P metabolite generation in B(a)P-exposed Cpr(lox/lox) offspring. Additionally, a sustained persistence of hydroxy metabolites during the onset of synapse formation was noted, corresponding to the peak of Met expression. Prenatal B(a)P exposure also downregulated Met RNA and protein levels and dysregulated normal temporal patterns of expression during synaptogenesis. Consistent with these data, transcriptional cell-based assays demonstrated that B(a)P exposure directly reduces human MET promoter activity. Furthermore, a functional readout of in utero B(a)P exposure showed a robust reduction in novel object discrimination in B(a)P-exposed Cpr(lox/lox) offspring. These results confirm the notion that common pollutants, such as the PAH B(a)P, can have a direct negative impact on the regulated developmental expression of an autism risk gene with associated negative behavioral learning and memory outcomes.
The quickest possible checkmate in the game of chess requires two moves using a pawn and the queen. Metaphorically speaking, the pawn (a membrane tether) and the queen (atoxin) work together to checkmate an ion channel within a neuronal circuit. This strategy termed &quot;tethered toxin&quot; (t-toxin) is based on the use of genetically encoded peptide toxins that are anchored to the cell-membrane via a glycolipid or transmembrane tether. Because of their mode of action at the cell surface, t-toxins act only on ion channels and receptors of the cell that is expressing the t-toxin, and not on identical receptors present in neighboring cells that do not express the t-toxin. In this mini-review we discuss the design of these genetic tools and their application for cell-specific and temporal manipulation of ion channel-mediated activities in vivo.
The action of botulinum neurotoxins (BoNTs) at the neuromuscular junction has been extensively investigated and knowledge gained in this field laid the foundation for the use of BoNTs in human pathologies characterized by excessive muscle contractions. Although much more is known about the action of BoNTs on the peripheral system, growing evidence has demonstrated several effects also at the central level. Pain conditions, with special regard to neuropathic and intractable pain, are some of the pathological states that have been recently treated with BoNTs with beneficial effects. The knowledge of the action and potentiality of BoNTs utilization against pain, with emphasis for its possible use in modulation and alleviation of chronic pain, still represents an outstanding challenge for experimental research. This review highlights recent findings on the effects of BoNTs in animal pain models.
Conventional risk factors such as high blood pressure account for a significant proportion of stroke risk, but much stroke risk remains unexplained. Epidemiological evidence suggests genetic predisposition accounts for some of this unexplained risk. Many candidate genes association studies have been performed but have lead to largely disappointing results. The genome-wide association study (GWAS) approach allows novel associations to be identified with as many as one million polymorphisms (genetic variants) across the genome. It has been successfully applied to other complex diseases, including other cardiovascular diseases, but stroke has lagged behind. A number of GWAS projects in stroke are now underway. Genetic variants originally identified using the GWAS approach in atrial fibrillation and coronary artery disease have been shown to also confer an increased risk of stroke. These associations have been with specific subtypes of stroke, emphasising the importance of accurate stroke subtyping. The use of intermediate phenotypes for stroke, such as white matter hyperintensities on MRI and carotid intima-media thickness, is also discussed.

One important cause of very low attainment in arithmetic (dyscalculia) seems to be a core deficit in an inherited foundational capacity for numbers. According to one set of hypotheses, arithmetic ability is built on an inherited system responsible for representing approximate numerosity. One account holds that this is supported by a system for representing exactly a small number (less than or equal to four4) of individual objects. In these approaches, the core deficit in dyscalculia lies in either of these systems. An alternative proposal holds that the deficit lies in an inherited system for sets of objects and operations on them (numerosity coding) on which arithmetic is built. I argue that a deficit in numerosity coding, not in the approximate number system or the small number system, is responsible for dyscalculia. Nevertheless, critical tests should involve both longitudinal studies and intervention, and these have yet to be carried out.
Two neural systems are known to encode self-location in the brain: Place cells in the hippocampus encode unique locations in unique environments, whereas grid cells, border cells and head-direction cells in the parahippocampal cortex provide a universal metric for mapping positions and directions in all environments. These systems have traditionally been studied in very simple environments; however, natural environments are compartmentalized, nested and variable in time. Recent studies indicate that hippocampal and entorhinal spatial maps reflect this complexity. The maps fragment into interconnected, rapidly changing and tightly coordinated submaps. Plurality, fast dynamics and dynamic grouping are optimal for a brain system thought to exploit large pools of stored information to guide behavior on a second-by-second time frame in the animal's natural habitat.
Autophagy is a highly conserved intracellular pathway involved in the elimination of proteins and organelles by lysosomes. Known originally as an adaptive response to nutrient deprivation in mitotic cells, autophagy is now recognized as an arbiter of neuronal survival and death decisions in neurodegenerative diseases. Studies using postmortem human tissue, genetic and toxin-induced animal and cellular models indicate that many of the etiological factors associated with neurodegenerative disorders can perturb the autophagy process. Emerging data support the view that dysregulation of autophagy might play a critical role in the pathogenesis of neurodegenerative disorders. In this review, we highlight the pathophysiological roles of autophagy and its potential therapeutic implications in debilitating neurodegenerative disorders, including amyotrophic lateral sclerosis and Alzheimer's, Parkinson's and Huntington's diseases.
Changes in gene expression in the brain may underlie cognitive deficits inherent to normal aging and neurodegenerative disease. However, the mechanisms underlying pathological alterations in the brain transcriptome are incompletely understood. Epigenetic mechanisms such as DNA methylation and histone acetylation have been shown to be important for memory processes in the adult brain. There is accumulating evidence that altered chromatin plasticity and histone acetylation are also involved in cognitive aging, neurodegeneration, and neuropsychiatric diseases. Inhibitors of histone deacetylase (HDAC) exhibit neuroprotective and neuroregenerative properties in animal models of various brain diseases. As such, targeting of HDACs seems to be a promising therapeutic strategy. In this review, we discuss the specific roles of each HDAC protein and the possible function of distinct histone modifications. We hope that this knowledge will aid in the development of diagnostic tools and in designing more potent and specific treatment for neurological disorders targeting selective HDAC proteins.
From the deep part of the main ligand-binding crevice, a minor, often shallower pocket extends between the extracellular ends of transmembrane domains (TM)-I, II, III and VII of 7TM receptors. This minor binding pocket is defined by a highly conserved kink in TM-II that is induced by a proline residue located in one of two adjacent positions. Here we argue that this minor binding pocket is important for receptor activation. Functional coupling of the receptors seems to be mediated through the hydrogen bond network located between the intracellular segments of these TMs, with the allosteric interface between TM-II and TM-VII being of particular significance. Importantly, the minor binding pocket, especially the proline-kink in TM-II, is involved in G protein versus arrestin pathway-biased signaling, for example in the angiotensin AT1 system. Consequently, this pocket could be specifically targeted in the development of functionally biased drugs.
A population-based record linkage case cohort of 239,995 births, to 119,214 women, born in Western Australia from 1980 to 2001 inclusive, was used to measure the recording of selected indicators of maternal health (current and prior) during pregnancy. We compared records of women with singleton pregnancies with that in twin pregnancies Mothers of first- and second-born singletons (n = 117,647) were compared with women with a first-born singleton followed by twins (n = 1,567). Binary indicators were used to calculate population prevalence of medical conditions, pregnancy complications and birth outcomes. Infant outcomes included stillbirth, low birthweight, preterm birth and birth defects. Women with twins were significantly older and taller, with similar rates of medical conditions and pregnancy complications during first singleton pregnancies compared with women with two consecutive singletons. However, during their second pregnancy, women with twins had significantly higher rates of essential hypertension, pre-eclampsia, threatened abortion, premature rupture of the membranes and ante partum hemorrhage with abruption than women with singletons. For both groups, maternal conditions in the first pregnancy were underreported in the second pregnancy, including diabetes, epilepsy, asthma, chronic renal dysfunction and essential hypertension. At the second birth, twins were 3 times more likely to be stillborn, 17 times more likely to be low birthweight and 4 times more likely to be delivered preterm compared with singletons. This research demonstrates the importance for epidemiologists and others, of having access to a complete maternal medical history for analyses of risks associated with maternal, infant and childhood morbidity.

Reaching is an important and early emerging motor skill that allows infants to interact with the physical and social world. However, few studies have considered how reaching experiences shape infants' own motor development and their perception of actions performed by others. In the current study, two groups of infants received daily parent guided play sessions over a 2-weeks training period. Using &quot;Sticky Mittens&quot;, one group was enabled to independently pick up objects whereas the other group only passively observed their parent's actions on objects. Following training, infants' manual and visual exploration of objects, agents, and actions in a live and a televised context were assessed. Our results showed that only infants who experienced independent object apprehension advanced in their reaching behavior, and showed changes in their visual exploration of agents and objects in a live setting. Passive observation was not sufficient to change infants' behavior. To our surprise, the effects of the training did not seem to generalize to a televised observation context. Together, our results suggest that early motor training can jump-start infants' transition into reaching and inform their perception of others' actions.
How can we explain, that DF - a patient with a damaged ventral stream - can act normally in many everyday tasks despite her profound perceptual disability. The classical answer is that perception and action are based on separate visual streams. Here, I will explain why this view is problematic and offer an alternative answer. Specifically, I will argue that the preserved performance of DF should be seen as evidence of the redundancy of visuomotor control and not as evidence of a segregation between vision for perception and action.
The accuracy with which goal-directed movements are executed depends substantially on the availability of accurate visuomotor information. When no visual information is available during movement execution, movement kinematics change and become more variable, indicating that the visual information about the movement environment is stored for a restricted period of time. However, little is known about the underlying decay characteristics. In this study we investigated how increasing memory demands change the kinematics of a grasping movement and whether these alterations reflect a continuous or an abrupt decay of the underlying visuomotor memory. Ten participants grasped differently sized objects under a full vision condition and four different delay conditions. Results show that the visuomotor information used for grasping decays rapidly after visual occlusion. The information decay over time became obvious in a decrease of movement accuracy and an increase in movement variability that were both well described by exponential decay models. Our findings suggest that visuomotor information is represented in some sort of short-term memory showing the same decay characteristics as observed in classical memory research.

Monoamine neurotransmitters are the major regulatory mechanisms in the vertebrate brain, involved in the adjustment of motivation, emotion, and cognition. The chemical anatomy of these systems is thought to be highly conserved in the brain of all vertebrates, including zebrafish. Recently, the development of behavioral assays in zebrafish allowed the neuropsychopharmacological investigation of these circuits and its functions. Here we review neuroanatomical, genetic, neurochemical, and psychopharmacological evidence regarding the roles of histaminergic, dopaminergic, noradrenergic, serotonergic, and melatonergic systems in this species. We conclude that, in spite of species differences, zebrafish are suitable for the investigation of neuropsychopharmacology of drugs that affect theses systems; nonetheless, more thorough validation of behavioral methods is still needed.


In a slowly progressive disorder like Alzheimer disease, evaluation of the clinical effect of novel drug candidates requires large numbers of patients and extended treatment periods. Current cell- and animal-based disease models of Alzheimer disease are poor at predicting a positive treatment response in patients. To help bridge the gap between disease models and large and costly clinical trials with high failure rates, biomarkers for the intended biochemical drug effect may be of value. Such biomarkers may be called 'theragnostic'. Here, we review the literature addressing the prospective value of these biomarkers.
The studies presented here demonstrate the protective effect of acetyl-L-carnitine (ALC) against alcohol-induced oxidative neuroinflammation, neuronal degeneration, and impaired neurotransmission. Our findings reveal the cellular and biochemical mechanisms of alcohol-induced oxidative damage in various types of brain cells. Chronic ethanol administration to mice caused an increase in inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS) and 3-nitrotyrosine adduct formation in frontal cortical neurons but not in astrocytes from brains of these animals. Interestingly, alcohol administration caused a rather selective activation of NADPH oxidase (NOX), which, in turn, enhanced levels of reactive oxygen species (ROS) and 4-hydroxynonenal, but these were predominantly localized in astrocytes and microglia. Oxidative damage in glial cells was accompanied by their pronounced activation (astrogliosis) and coincident neuronal loss, suggesting that inflammation in glial cells caused neuronal degeneration. Immunohistochemistry studies indicated that alcohol consumption induced different oxidative mediators in different brain cell types. Thus, nitric oxide was mostly detected in iNOS-expressing neurons, whereas ROS were predominantly generated in NOX-expressing glial cells after alcohol ingestion. Assessment of neuronal activity in ex vivo frontal cortical brain tissue slices from ethanol-fed mice showed a reduction in long-term potentiation synaptic transmission compared with slices from controls. Coadministration of ALC with alcohol showed a significant reduction in oxidative damage and neuronal loss and a restoration of synaptic neurotransmission in this brain region, suggesting that ALC protects brain cells from ethanol-induced oxidative injury. These findings suggest the potential clinical utility of ALC as a neuroprotective agent that prevents alcohol-induced brain damage and development of neurological disorders.
This report provides practical guidance on refinement of the use of food and fluid control as motivational tools for macaques used in behavioural neuroscience research. The guidance is based on consideration of the scientific literature and, where data are lacking, expert opinion and professional experience, including that of the members of a Working Group convened by the United Kingdom National Centre for the Replacement, Refinement and Reduction of Animals in Research (NC3Rs). The report should be useful to researchers, veterinarians and animal care staff responsible for the welfare of macaques used in food and fluid control protocols, as well as those involved with designing, performing and analysing studies that use these protocols. It should also assist regulatory authorities and members of local ethical review processes or institutional animal care and use committees concerned with evaluating such protocols. The report provides a framework for refinement that can be tailored to meet local requirements. It also identifies data gaps and areas for future research and sets out the Working Group's recommendations on contemporary best practice.
To properly understand the function of genes of neurological interest, in vivo manipulation in the adult is essential, particularly when the target gene is involved in brain development. Moreover, since the physiological effects of target protein may be region-specific, targeting a distinct brain region could be required to dissect these effects in specific brain locations. Infection of somatic tissues of transgenic mice bearing loxP-flanked gene sequences with a viral vector expressing Cre recombinase provides a means of allowing flexible spatio-temporal control of target gene expression. Viral vector-mediated Cre expression could be used to mediate localized gene modulation in a specific brain region. In the present study this technology was applied to the glycine transporter type-1 (GlyT1) protein which is responsible for the uptake of synaptic glycine in the forebrain and has been implicated as a therapeutic target for the treatment of schizophrenia. Since GlyT1 is widely expressed in glial cells, we employed an adenoviral-based vector (Ad5) to deliver Cre protein, due to the preferentially transduction of glial cells by adenoviral vectors in rodent brain. We show significant reduced GlyT1 binding specifically in the thalamic area of conditional GlyT1 (GlyT1c) transgenic mice injected with Ad5-Cre virus, as measured by GlyT1 autoradiography. In conclusion, we demonstrated the validity of viral vector-mediated delivery of Cre to loxP targeted transgenic mice as a novel strategy to investigate target gene function in selected subregions of the adult brain, which provides a valuable technique to investigate gene function both in normal physiology and in disease models.
With the proliferation of both in vivo and in vitro microscopy techniques in the neurosciences, increased attention has been placed on the development of image analysis techniques. As experiments can produce large numbers of high bit depth images, automated processing methods have become necessary for handling these data sets. Thresholding, whereby a high bit depth image is converted into a binary image in order to identify a feature of interest, is one such standard automated technique; but the method of selecting an appropriate threshold value is far from standard. We present a novel algorithm, maximum correlation thresholding (MCT), that thresholds images accurately and efficiently without relying on any assumptions of the statistics of the image. As MCT produces thresholded images that preserve the most salient elements in the image, the algorithm performs as well as a trained user on a range of neurobiological data and in a variety of noisy conditions or when preprocessing steps preceded the thresholding operation. Our method will thus allow neuroscientists to automate image thresholding using a robust, computationally efficient algorithm, ultimately aiding in accurate image quantification and analysis.



Recent findings suggest that functional brain imaging might be used to identify consciousness in patients diagnosed with persistent vegetative state and minimally conscious state. Michael Rafii and James Brewer discuss the potential for fMRI's wider implementation in clinical practice, and associated caveats.
Visual processing is fraught with uncertainty: The visual system must attempt to estimate physical properties despite missing information and noisy mechanisms. Sometimes high visual uncertainty translates into lack of confidence in our visual perception: We are aware of not seeing well. The mechanism by which we achieve this awareness--how we assess our own visual uncertainty--is unknown, but its investigation is critical to our understanding of visual decision mechanisms. The simplest possibility is that the visual system relies on cues to uncertainty, stimulus features usually associated with visual uncertainty, like blurriness. Probabilistic models of the brain suggest a more sophisticated mechanism, in which visual uncertainty is explicitly represented as probability distributions. In two separate experiments, observers performed a visual discrimination task in which confidence could be determined by the cues available (contrast and crowding or eccentricity and masking) or by their actual performance, the latter requiring a more sophisticated mechanism than cue monitoring. Results show that observers' confidence followed performance rather than cues, indicating that the mechanisms underlying the evaluation of visual confidence are relatively complex. This result supports probabilistic models, which imply the existence of sophisticated mechanisms for evaluating uncertainty.
Altered autonomic arousal in relation to offending behavior has mainly been investigated in subjects with varying degrees of psychopathic traits. The present study sets out to investigate subjective ratings and skin conductance responses (SCRs) in mentally disordered offenders with various diagnoses but without psychopathy, specifically recruited from the forensic psychiatric system. Two subgroups were investigated; an antisocial group with antisocial personality disorder (APD) or antisocial traits (n=16) and a non-antisocial group with various diagnoses (n=25), in relation to a healthy non-criminal control group (n=20). All participants were male. SCRs and subjective ratings of arousal and valence were measured for neutral and negative pictures from the International Affective Picture System (IAPS). The offenders showed significantly lower SCRs and subjective ratings than the control group. Moreover, there was no significant difference between antisocial and non-antisocial offenders, indicating that antisocial behavior might not be a differential factor. Thus, attenuated emotional responses may be a characteristic shared by mentally disordered offenders overall.
The occurrence of mania during antidepressant treatment is a key issue in the clinical management of bipolar disorder (BD). Brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) has been implicated in the pathogenesis of mood disorders. Moreover, antidepressants increase the expression of BDNF and its overactivity may be involved in the mechanism of development of the manic state. The aim of the present study was to test the influence of BDNF gene alterations in antidepressant-induced mania in bipolar patients. A case-control study was performed to analyse genotype and allele frequencies for the BDNF polymorphisms between two groups [37 patients with antidepressant-induced mania (AIM+) and 55 patients without antidepressant-induced mania (AIM-)]. No significant differences were found between AIM+ and AIM- groups. Our results did not support the BDNF gene link to antidepressant-induced mania, like a previous study with a smaller sample has already suggested.
Chromogranin A (CgA), a member of the granin family serves several important cell biological roles in (neuro)endocrine cells which are summarized in this review. CgA is a &quot;prohormone&quot; that is synthesized at the rough endoplasmic reticulum and transported into the cisternae of this organelle via its signal peptide. It is then trafficked to the Golgi complex and then to the trans-Golgi network (TGN) where CgA aggregates at low pH in the presence of calcium. The CgA aggregates provide the physical driving force to induce budding of the TGN membrane resulting in dense core granule (DCG) formation. Within the granule, a small amount of the CgA is processed to bioactive peptides, including a predicted C-terminal peptide, serpinin. Upon stimulation, DCGs undergo exocytosis and CgA and its derived peptides are released. Serpinin, acting extracellularly is able to signal the increase in transcription of a serine protease inhibitor, protease nexin-1 (PN-1) that protects DCG proteins against degradation in the Golgi complex, which then enhances DCG biogenesis to replenish those that were released. Thus CgA and its derived peptide, serpinin, plays a significant role in granule formation and regulation of granule biogenesis, respectively, in (neuro) endocrine cells.
Regulated exocytosis requires the formation of trans-SNARE complexes that assemble at the interface between vesicles and the plasma membrane. Recent evidence has also highlighted the importance of lipid dynamic in this process. For instance, small cone-shaped lipids generating membrane curvature of the plasma membrane are synthesized at the exocytotic sites. Among those lipids, phosphatidic acid (PA) synthesized through the activity of phospholipase D (PLD) has been recently shown to be necessary to hormonal release in various cell types as well as in neurotransmitter release. In this paper we examined the possible role of arachidonic acid (AA), a fatty acid that is generated by the activity of phospholipase A (PLA). Melittin a well-known activator of PLA was found to concomitantly promote catecholamine and chromogranin A (CGA) release in a calcium-dependent manner and also to increase AA synthesis in chromaffin cells. The effects of melittin on exocytosis and AA synthesis did not involve heterotrimeric G protein activation, but were suppressed by PLA inhibitors. Accordingly addition of exogenous PLA stimulated AA synthesis and catecholamine release in permeabilized chromaffin cells, whereas provision of exogenous AA directly increased exocytosis. These results suggest that AA produced by PLA activation during exocytosis may play an important regulatory role in hormonal and neurotransmitter release. The possibility that CGA-derived peptides released during exocytosis mimic the activity of melittin is discussed.


Affective perception has been suggested to involve the coordinated activation of widely distributed cortical networks, including those involved in sensory storage/analysis and higher-order structures, such as the prefrontal cortex that regulate these processes. We measured regional electroencephalogram (EEG) activity while young adult participants viewed images varying in arousal and valence (pleasant, neutral, and unpleasant). Viewing highly arousing images led to a significant enhancement of EEG coherence between prefrontal and posterior electrodes in both cerebral hemispheres. Long distance interhemispheric coherence also increased during affective image viewing, but only among females. Increases in coherent brain electrical activity were specific to oscillations in the beta (14 to 30Hz) bandwidth, while right hemispheric networks oscillating in the theta (4 to 7Hz) range tended to de-synchronize during viewing of affective images. Although directionality could not be inferred, analyses of lead-lag relations showed the prefrontal electrodes leading the posterior clusters, consistent with top-down modulation. Our results suggest large-scale synchronization of cortical cells during affective viewing and emphasize the role of beta oscillations in mediating such binding.
Synaptic pathology occurs early in Alzheimer's disease (AD) development, and cerebrospinal fluid biomarkers for synaptic damage may be altered early in the disease process. In the present study we examined cerebrospinal fluid levels of the postsynaptic protein neurogranin in patients with mild cognitive impairment (MCI) or AD and controls. The low neurogranin level in cerebrospinal fluid required enrichment by immunoprecipitation prior to mass spectrometric identification and semi-quantitative immunoblot analysis. Relative quantification revealed a significant increase of neurogranin in the AD group compared with controls, while the MCI group was not statistically different from either controls or the AD group. The concentrations of the AD biomarkers T-tau, P-tau(181) and A(42) were significantly changed in the control and MCI groups compared with the AD group, but no significant differences were found between the MCI group and controls for the three biomarkers. Nevertheless, a trend towards increasing levels of neurogranin, T-tau and P-tau(181) was found in cerebrospinal fluid from MCI patients compared with controls. The elevated neurogranin levels in the MCI and AD groups might reflect synaptic degeneration. These results together suggest that cerebrospinal fluid neurogranin might be valuable together with the established AD biomarkers in the early diagnosis of AD and warrants further studies to determine the diagnostic value of neurogranin.
Stress exacerbates several physical and psychological disorders. Voluntary exercise can reduce susceptibility to many of these stress-associated disorders. In rodents, voluntary exercise can reduce hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenocortical (HPA) axis activity in response to various stressors as well as upregulate several brain neurotrophins. An important issue regarding voluntary exercise is whether its effect on the reduction of HPA axis activation in response to stress is due to the physical activity itself or simply the enhanced environmental complexity provided by the running wheels. The present study compared the effects of physical activity and environmental complexity (that did not increase physical activity) on HPA axis habituation to repeated stress and modulation of brain neurotrophin mRNA expression. For six weeks, male rats were given free access to running wheels (exercise group), given 4 objects that were repeatedly exchanged (increased environmental complexity group), or housed in standard cages. On week 7, animals were exposed to 11 consecutive daily 30-min sessions of 98-dBA noise. Plasma corticosterone and adrenocorticotropic hormone were measured from blood collected directly after noise exposures. Tissue, including brains, thymi, and adrenal glands was collected on Day 11. Although rats in both the exercise and enhanced environmental complexity groups expressed higher levels of BDNF and NGF mRNA in several brain regions, only exercise animals showed quicker glucocorticoid habituation to repeated audiogenic stress. These results suggest that voluntary exercise, independent from other environmental manipulations, accounts for the reduction in susceptibility to stress.
Most research with bilinguals has used speech stimuli to demonstrate differences in auditory processing abilities. Two main factors have been identified as modulators of such differences: proficiency and age of acquisition of the second language (L2). However, whether the bilingual brain differs from the monolingual in the efficient processing of non-verbal auditory events (known to be critical to the acoustic analysis of the speech stream) remains unclear. In this EEG/ERP study, using the mismatch negativity (MMN), P3a, and late negativity (LN), we examined differences in discrimination, involuntary switching of attention and reorienting of attention between monolinguals and bilinguals as they processed complex tones. Further, we examined the role that age of acquisition plays in modulating such responses. A group of English monolinguals and a group of proficient Spanish-English bilinguals were presented with a multiple-deviant oddball paradigm with four deviant conditions (duration, frequency, silent gap, and frequency modulation). Late bilinguals, who learned English after age 10, exhibited larger MMN and P3a responses than early bilinguals, across all deviant conditions. Significant associations were found between amplitude of the responses and both age of L2 acquisition and years of L2 experience. Individuals who acquired English at later ages and had fewer years of L2 experience had larger MMN, P3a, and LN responses than those who learned it earlier. These findings demonstrate that age of L2 acquisition is an important modulator of auditory responses in bilinguals even when processing non-speech signals. Involuntary attention switching is suggested as the main factor driving these differences.
Inducible gene expression plays a central role in neuronal plasticity, learning, and memory, and dysfunction of the underlying molecular events can lead to severe neuronal disorders. In addition to coding transcripts (mRNAs), non-coding microRNAs (miRNAs) appear to play a role in these processes. For instance, the CREB-regulated miRNA miR132 has been shown to affect neuronal structure in an activity-dependent manner, yet the details of its physiological effects and the behavioral consequences in vivo remain unclear. To examine these questions, we employed a transgenic mouse strain that expresses miR132 in forebrain neurons. Morphometric analysis of hippocampal neurons revealed that transgenic miR132 triggers a marked increase in dendritic spine density. Additionally, miR132 transgenic mice exhibited a decrease in the expression of MeCP2, a protein implicated in Rett Syndrome and other disorders of mental retardation. Consistent with these findings, miR132 transgenic mice displayed significant deficits in novel object recognition. Together, these data support a role for miR132 as a regulator of neuronal structure and function, and raise the possibility that dysregulation of miR132 could contribute to an array of cognitive disorders.
This paper examines explanations for human artistic behavior in two reductionist research programs, cognitive neuroscience and evolutionary psychology. Despite their different methodological outlooks, both approaches converge on an explanation of art production and appreciation as byproducts of normal perceptual and motivational cognitive skills that evolved in response to problems originally not related to art, such as the discrimination of salient visual stimuli and speech sounds. The explanatory power of this reductionist framework does not obviate the need for higher-level accounts of art from the humanities, such as aesthetics, art history or anthropology of art.
Inosine triphosphate pyrophosphatase (ITPA protein) (EC 3.6.1.19) hydrolyzes deaminated purine nucleoside triphosphates, such as ITP and dITP, to their corresponding purine nucleoside monophosphate and pyrophosphate. In mammals, this enzyme is encoded by the Itpa gene. Using the Itpa gene-disrupted mouse as a model, we have elucidated the biological significance of the ITPA protein and its substrates, ITP and dITP. Itpa(-/-) mice exhibited peri- or post-natal lethality dependent on the genetic background. The heart of the Itpa(-/-) mouse was found to be structurally and functionally abnormal. Significantly higher levels of deoxyinosine and inosine were detected in nuclear DNA and RNA prepared from Itpa(-/-) embryos compared to wild type embryos. In addition, an accumulation of ITP was observed in the erythrocytes of Itpa(-/-) mice. We found that Itpa(-/-) primary mouse embryonic fibroblasts (MEFs), which have no detectable ability to generate IMP from ITP in whole cell extracts, exhibited a prolonged population-doubling time, increased chromosome abnormalities and accumulation of single-strand breaks in their nuclear DNA, in comparison to primary MEFs prepared from wild type embryos. These results revealed that (1) ITP and dITP are spontaneously produced in vivo and (2) accumulation of ITP and dITP is responsible for the harmful effects observed in the Itpa(-/-) mouse. In addition to its effect as the precursor nucleotide for RNA transcription, ITP has the potential to influence the activity of ATP/GTP-binding proteins. The biological significance of ITP and dITP in the nucleotide pool remains to be elucidated.
Accumulation of oxidized bases such as 8-oxoguanine in either nuclear or mitochondrial DNA triggers various cellular dysfunctions including mutagenesis, and programmed cell death or senescence. Recent studies have revealed that oxidized nucleoside triphosphates such as 8-oxo-dGTP in the nucleotide pool are the main source of oxidized bases accumulating in the DNA of cells under oxidative stress. To counteract such deleterious effects of nucleotide pool damage, mammalian cells possess MutT homolog-1 (MTH1) with oxidized purine nucleoside triphosphatase and related enzymes, thus minimizing the accumulation of oxidized bases in cellular DNA. Depletion or increased expression of the MTH1 protein have revealed its significant roles in avoiding programmed cell death or senescence as well as mutagenesis, and accumulating evidences indicate that MTH1 is involved in suppression of degenerative disorders such as neurodegeneration.
To identify novel nucleotide pool sanitizing enzymes, we have established a comprehensive screening system for damaged nucleotide-binding proteins based on proteomics technology. In the screening system, affinity chromatography with resins carrying various damaged nucleotides is used for the purification of binding proteins, and the purified proteins are identified by mass-spectrometry. Inosine triphosphate (ITP) is a deleterious damaged nucleotide, and can be generated by nitrosative deamination of ATP or phosphorylation of inosine monophosphate (IMP). Using the above system, we performed screens for ITP-binding proteins from mouse and human cell extracts, and identified several ITP-binding enzymes. We identified both mouse inosine triphosphatase (ITPA) and human ITPA, well-known ITP hydrolyzing enzymes, as ITP-binding proteins. These results support the validity of this screening system. In addition to ITPA, we identified human nucleoside diphosphate linked moiety X-type motif 16 (NUDT16) protein as an ITP-binding protein. Biochemical analysis revealed that NUDT16 selectively hydrolyzes deoxyinosine diphosphate (dIDP) and IDP to deoxyinosine monophosphate (dIMP) and IMP, respectively. dITP and ITP are also hydrolyzed by NUDT16 to a lesser extent. The knockdown of NUDT16 in HeLa MR cells suppressed cell proliferation, and was accompanied by a significantly increased accumulation of strand breaks in nuclear DNA, suggesting that NUDT16 has an essential role in the maintenance of genome stability. RS21-C6, another ITP-binding protein identified in our screen, binds not only to ITP, but also to ATP. RS21-C6 hydrolyzes dCTP and 5-halo-dCTP, but does not hydrolyze ITP or ATP. It is likely that RS21-C6 may control dCTP levels or eliminate 5-halo-dCTP in the nucleotide pools. In conclusion, the results of these studies show that our screening system is applicable in studying the health effects of damaged nucleotides and cellular sanitizing systems for nucleotide pools.
There has been a widespread use of pigs in medical and biomedical training and research due to many similarities in the morphophysiology of tissues between swine and humans The aim of this study was to measure some rostrofacial indices of some indigenous pigs in Nigeria, with a view to providing basic information on some clinically important parameters. Using 26 pigs, the mean values for the mandibular lenghts MDL-1 and MDL-2 were 16.741.76cm and 15.982.32cm for the males and 18.033.04 and 17.072.54 for the females. The mean distance of the infraorbital foramen to the root of the alveolus of premolar three was relatively constant between sexes and age group however, significant differences was found in the distance between the medial mental foramen and the mandibular foramen, between age group within sexes. Several lateral foramina were observed on either side of the bodies of the mandibles, with an average of 6 in the males and 7 in the females with the implications for anaesthesia discussed. With increasing use of the porcine species as experimental models for improvement of human dental implants, this work will further aid the knowledge of the regional anaesthesia of this species in dental implant studies and could be of value in the surgical intervention of priced animals.


A single serine point mutation (S374A) in the adenosine A(2A) receptor (A(2A)R) C-terminal tail reduces A(2A)R-D(2)R heteromerization and prevents its allosteric modulation of the dopamine D(2) receptor (D(2)R). By means of site directed mutagenesis of the A(2A)R and synthetic transmembrane (TM) -helix peptides of the D(2)R we further explored the role of electrostatic interactions and TM helix interactions of the A(2A)R-D(2)R heteromer interface. We found evidence that the TM domains IV and V of the D(2)R play a major role in the A(2A)R-D(2)R heteromer interface since the incubation with peptides corresponding to these domains significantly reduced the ability of A(2A)R and D(2)R to heteromerize. In addition, the incubation with TM-IV or TM-V blocked the allosteric modulation normally found in A(2A)R-D(2)R heteromers. The mutation of two negatively charged aspartates in the A(2A)R C-terminal tail (D401A/D402A) in combination with the S374A mutation drastically reduced the physical A(2A)R-D(2)R interaction and lost the ability of antagonistic allosteric modulation over the A(2A)R-D(2)R interface, suggesting further evidence for the existence of an electrostatic interaction between the C-terminal tail of A(2A)R and the intracellular loop 3 (IL3) of D(2)R. On the other hand, molecular dynamic model and bioinformatic analysis propose that specific AAR, AQE, and VLS protriplets as an important motive in the A(2A)R-D(2L)R heteromer interface together with D(2L)R TM segments IV/V interacting with A(2A)R TM-IV/V or TM-I/VII.
Neural stem cells (NSCs) possess high proliferative potential and the capacity for self-renewal with retention of multipotency to differentiate into neuronal and glial cells. NSCs are the source for neurogenesis during central nervous system development from fetal and adult stages. Although the human natural killer-1 (HNK-1) carbohydrate epitope is expressed predominantly in the nervous system and involved in intercellular adhesion, cell migration, and synaptic plasticity, the expression patterns and functional roles of HNK-1-containing glycoconjugates in NSCs have not been fully recognized. We found that HNK-1 was expressed in embryonic mouse NSCs and that this expression was lost during the process of differentiation. Based on proteomics analysis, it was revealed that the HNK-1 epitopes were almost exclusively displayed on an extracellular matrix protein, tenascin-C (TNC), in the mouse embryonic NSCs. Furthermore, the HNK-1 epitope was found to be present only on the largest isoform of the TNC molecules. In addition, the expression of HNK-1 was dependent on expression of the largest TNC variant but not by enzymes involved in the biosynthesis of HNK-1. By knocking down HNK-1 sulfotransferase or TNC by small interfering RNA, we further demonstrated that HNK-1 on TNC was involved in the proliferation of NSCs via modulation of the expression level of the epidermal growth factor receptor. Our finding provides insights into the function of HNK-1 carbohydrate epitopes in NSCs to maintain stemness during neural development.
Myocardin (Mycd), which is essential for the differentiation of the smooth muscle cell lineage, is constitutively located in the nucleus, although its family members, myocardin-related transcription factors A and B (MRTF-A/B), mostly reside in the cytoplasm and translocate to the nucleus in response to Rho signaling. The mechanism for their nuclear import is unclear. Here we investigated the mechanism for the nuclear import of Mycd family members and demonstrated any correlation between such mechanism and the phenotype of vascular smooth muscle cells (VSMCs). In cultured VSMCs, the knockdown of importin 1 inhibited the nuclear import of Mycd and MRTF-A/B. Their NH(2)-terminal basic domain was identified as a binding site for importin /1 by in vitro analyses. However, Mycd had a higher affinity for importin /1 than did MRTF-A/B, even in the absence of G-actin, and Mycd affinity for importin 1/1 was stronger than for any other importin /1 heterodimers. The binding of Mycd to importin /1 was insensitive to G-actin, whereas that of MRTF-A/B was differently inhibited by G-actin. In dedifferentiated VSMCs, the levels of importins 1 and 1 were reduced concomitant with down-regulation of Mycd, serum response factor, and smooth muscle cell markers. By contrast, in differentiated VSMCs, their expressions were up-regulated. Thus, the nuclear import of Mycd family members in VSMCs depends on importin /1, and their relative affinities for importin /1 heterodimers determine Mycd nuclear import. The expression of Mycd nuclear import machineries is related to the expression levels of VSMC phenotype-dependent smooth muscle cell markers.
In the adult mammalian brain the subependymal layer of the lateral ventricles houses neural stem cells giving rise to young neurons migrating towards the olfactory bulb. The molecular cues controlling essential functions within the neurogenesis pathway such as proliferation, short and long distance migration, differentiation and functional integration are poorly understood. Neural progenitors in situ express the tissue nonspecific form of alkaline phosphatase (TNAP), a cell surface-located nonspecific phosphomonoesterase capable of hydrolyzing extracellular nucleotides. To gain insight into the functional role of TNAP in cultured multipotent neural stem cells we applied a knockdown protocol using RNA interference with shRNA and retroviral infection. We show that TNAP knockdown reduces cell proliferation and differentiation into neurons or oligodendrocytes. This effect is abrogated by addition of alkaline phosphatase to the culture medium. Our results suggest that TNAP is essential for NSC proliferation and differentiation in vitro and possibly also in vivo.
Dementia with Lewy Bodies (DLB) is a common neurodegenerative disorder of the aging population characterized by -synuclein accumulation in cortical and subcortical regions. Although neuropathology in advanced age has been investigated in dementias such as Alzheimer Disease (AD), severity of the neuropathology in the oldest old with DLB remains uncharacterized. For this purpose we compared characteristics of DLB cases divided into three age groups 70-79, 80-89 and  90 years (oldest old). Neuropathological indicators and levels of synaptophysin were assessed and correlated with clinical measurements of cognition and dementia severity. These studies showed that frequency and severity of DLB was lower in 80-89 and  90 year cases compared to 70-79 year old group but cognitive impairment did not vary with age. The extent of AD neuropathology correlated with dementia severity only in the 70-79 year group, while synaptophysin immunoreactivity more strongly associated with dementia severity in the older age group in both DLB and AD. Taken together these results suggest that the oldest old with DLB might represent a distinct group.
In many science, technology, engineering, and mathematics disciplines, women are outperformed by men in test scores, jeopardizing their success in science-oriented courses and careers. The current study tested the effectiveness of a psychological intervention, called values affirmation, in reducing the gender achievement gap in a college-level introductory physics class. In this randomized double-blind study, 399 students either wrote about their most important values or not, twice at the beginning of the 15-week course. Values affirmation reduced the male-female performance and learning difference substantially and elevated women's modal grades from the C to B range. Benefits were strongest for women who tended to endorse the stereotype that men do better than women in physics. A brief psychological intervention may be a promising way to address the gender gap in science performance and learning.
A major challenge in neuroscience is to decipher the structural layout of the brain. The term &quot;connectome&quot; has recently been proposed to refer to the highly organized connection matrix of the human brain. However, defining how information flows through such a complex system represents so difficult a task that it seems unlikely it could be achieved in the near future or, for the most pessimistic, perhaps ever. Circuit diagrams of the nervous system can be considered at different levels, although they are surely impossible to complete at the synaptic level. Nevertheless, advances in our capacity to marry macro- and microscopic data may help establish a realistic statistical model that could describe connectivity at the ultrastructural level, the &quot;synaptome,&quot; giving us cause for optimism.


Genistein and 5-hydroxyindole (5-HI) potentiate the 7 nicotinic acetylcholine receptor current by primarily increasing peak amplitude, a property of type I 7 positive allosteric modulation. In this study, the effects of these two compounds were investigated at two different 7/5-HT(3) chimeras (chimera 1, comprising of extracellular 7 N-terminus fused to the remainder of 5-HT(3A), and chimera 2 containing an additional 7 encoded M2-M3 loop), and wild-type 7 and 5-HT(3A) receptors. Agonist-evoked responses, examined by expression of the chimeras in Xenopus laevis oocytes or HEK-293 cells, revealed that currents decayed slower and compounds {rank order: N-[(3R)-1-azabicyclo[2.2.2]oct-3-yl]-4-chlorobenzamide hydrochloride (PNU-282987)~2-(1,4-diazabicyclo[3.2.2]nonan-4-yl)-5-phenyl-1,3,4-oxadiazole (NS6784)&gt;acetylcholine&gt;choline} were more potent in chimera 2 than chimera 1 or 7 receptors. In chimera 2, genistein and 5-HI potentiated agonist-evoked responses (EC(50): 4-5 M for genistein and 300-500 M for 5-HI) and at higher concentrations evoked current directly consistent with ago-allosteric modulation. At chimera 1 and 5-HT(3A) receptors, neither compound directly evoked any current and 5-HI, only at chimera 1, was able to potentiate agonist-evoked responses. Genistein and 5-HI did not inhibit the binding of the 7 agonist [(3)H](1S,4S)-2,2-dimethyl-5-(6-phenylpyridazin-3-yl)-5-aza-2-azoniabicyclo[2.2.1] heptane ([(3)H]A-585539) to rat brain or chimera 2. In summary, this study supports the role of the M2-M3 loop being critical for the positive allosteric effect of genistein, but not 5-HI, and in agonist-evoked response fine-tuning. The identification of distinct 7 receptor modulatory sites offers unique opportunities for developing CNS therapeutics and understanding its pharmacology.
The Reelin ligand regulates a Dab1-dependent signaling pathway required for brain lamination and normal dendritogenesis, but the specific mechanisms underlying these actions remain unclear. We find that Stk25, a modifier of Reelin-Dab1 signaling, regulates Golgi morphology and neuronal polarization as part of an LKB1-Stk25-Golgi matrix protein 130 (GM130) signaling pathway. Overexpression of Stk25 induces Golgi condensation and multiple axons, both of which are rescued by Reelin treatment. Reelin stimulation of cultured neurons induces the extension of the Golgi into dendrites, which is suppressed by Stk25 overexpression. In vivo, Reelin and Dab1 are required for the normal extension of the Golgi apparatus into the apical dendrites of hippocampal and neocortical pyramidal neurons. This demonstrates that the balance between Reelin-Dab1 signaling and LKB1-Stk25-GM130 regulates Golgi dispersion, axon specification, and dendrite growth and provides insights into the importance of the Golgi apparatus for cell polarization.
Precise targeting of various voltage-gated ion channels to proper membrane domains is crucial for their distinct roles in neuronal excitability and synaptic transmission. How each channel protein is transported within the cytoplasm is poorly understood. Here, we report that KIF5/kinesin I transports Kv3.1 voltage-gated K(+) (Kv) channels through the axon initial segment (AIS) via direct binding. First, we have identified a novel interaction between Kv3.1 and KIF5, confirmed by immunoprecipitation from mouse brain lysates and by pull-down assays with exogenously expressed proteins. The interaction is mediated by a direct binding between the Kv3.1 N-terminal T1 domain and a conserved region in KIF5 tail domains, in which proper T1 tetramerization is crucial. Overexpression of this region of KIF5B markedly reduces axonal levels of Kv3.1bHA. In mature hippocampal neurons, endogenous Kv3.1b and KIF5 colocalize. Suppressing the endogenous KIF5B level by RNA interference significantly reduces the Kv3.1b axonal level. Furthermore, mutating the Zn(2+)-binding site within T1 markedly decreases channel axonal targeting and forward trafficking, likely through disrupting T1 tetramerization and hence eliminating the binding to KIF5 tail. The mutation also alters channel activity. Interestingly, coexpression of the YFP (yellow fluorescent protein)-tagged KIF5B assists dendritic Kv3.1a and even mutants with a faulty axonal targeting motif to penetrate the AIS. Finally, fluorescently tagged Kv3.1 channels colocalize and comove with KIF5B along axons revealed by two-color time-lapse imaging. Our findings suggest that the binding to KIF5 ensures properly assembled and functioning Kv3.1 channels to be transported into axons.
We have used fluorescent dextran tracers to test the tightness of the paranodal junction of living or fixed myelinated fibers in mouse sciatic nerve. Both 3 and 70 kDa tracers are able to penetrate from the perinodal space symmetrically into the paranodes on either side of the node of Ranvier at a rate consistent with diffusion through an elongated helical pathway between the paranodal terminal loops of the myelin sheath. This pathway thus provides an access route for movement of water soluble nutrients and metabolites to and from the internodal axon and constitutes a pathway through which juxtaparanodal potassium channels may be activated and may in turn affect nodal excitability. This pathway may also allow access of antibodies and toxic molecules to the internodal axon in paraneoplastic syndromes and demyelinating diseases.
-Secretase is an intramembrane-cleaving protease that is responsible for the generation of amyloid- peptides linked to the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease. Using a substituted cysteine accessibility method, we have previously shown that the hydrophilic &quot;catalytic pore&quot; structure of -secretase is formed by the transmembrane domains (TMDs) 6, 7, and 9 of presenilin 1 (PS1), the catalytic subunit of -secretase, within the membrane. Here, we analyzed the structure in and around the first hydrophobic region, the putative TMD1, of PS1, of which the precise function as well as three-dimensional location within -secretase remained unknown. We found that TMD1 is located in proximity to the catalytic GxGD and PAL motifs within the C-terminal fragment of PS1, facing directly the catalytic pore. Competition experiments using known -secretase inhibitors suggested that the N-terminal region of TMD1 functions as a subsite during proteolytic action of the -secretase. Intriguingly, binding of inhibitors affected water accessibility of residues at the membrane border of TMD1, suggesting the possibility of a dynamic motion of TMD1 during the catalytic process. Our results provide mechanistic insights into the functional role of TMD1 of PS1 in the intramembrane-cleaving activity of the -secretase.
Perceptual decision making is a complex process that requires multiple computations, including the accumulation of sensory evidence and an ongoing evaluation of the accumulation process to use for prediction and adjustment. Implementing these computations likely involves interactions among many brain regions. For perceptual decisions linked to oculomotor actions, neural correlates of sensory evidence accumulation have been identified in several cortical areas, including the frontal eye field and lateral intraparietal area, and one of their direct, subcortical targets, the superior colliculus. These structures are also connected indirectly, via the basal ganglia. The basal ganglia pathway has been theorized to contribute to perceptual decision making, but the nature of this contribution has yet to be examined directly. Here we show that in monkeys performing a reaction-time visual motion direction-discrimination task, neurons in a primary input structure of the basal ganglia, the caudate nucleus, encode three aspects of decision making: evidence accumulation, evaluation, and choice biases. These results indicate that the basal ganglia pathway can provide important signals to influence and assess perceptual decisions that guide oculomotor behavior.
Sustained neural activity is involved in several brain functions. Although recurrent/feedback excitatory networks are proposed as a neural mechanism for this sustained activity, the synaptic mechanisms have not been fully clarified. To address this issue, we investigated the excitatory synaptic responses of neurons in the prepositus hypoglossi nucleus (PHN), a brainstem structure involved as an oculomotor neural integrator, using whole-cell voltage-clamp recordings in rat slice preparations. Under a blockade of inhibitory synaptic transmissions, the application of &quot;burst stimulation&quot; (100 Hz, 20 pulses) to a brainstem area projecting to the PHN induced an increase in the frequency of EPSCs in PHN neurons that lasted for several seconds. Sustained EPSC responses were observed even when the burst stimulation was applied in the vicinity of a recorded neuron within the PHN that was isolated from the slices. Pharmacologically, the sustained EPSC responses were reduced by 1-naphthyl acetyl spermine (50 m), a blocker of Ca(2+)-permeable AMPA (CP-AMPA) receptors. Analysis of the current-voltage (I-V) relationship of the current responses to iontophoretic application of kainate revealed that more than one-half of PHN neurons exhibited an inwardly rectifying I-V relationship. Furthermore, PHN neurons exhibiting inwardly rectifying current responses showed higher Ca(2+) permeability. The sustained EPSC responses were also reduced by flufenamic acid (200 m), a blocker of Ca(2+)-activated nonselective cation (CAN) channels. These results indicate that the sustained EPSC responses are attributable to the sustained activation of local excitatory networks in the PHN, which arises from the activation of CP-AMPA receptors and CAN channels in PHN neurons.
Neocortical neurons in vivo process each of their individual inputs in the context of ongoing synaptic background activity, produced by the thousands of presynaptic partners a typical neuron has. Previous work has shown that background activity affects multiple aspects of neuronal and network function. However, its effect on the induction of spike-timing dependent plasticity (STDP) is not clear. Here we report that injections of simulated background conductances (produced by a dynamic-clamp system) into pyramidal cells in rat brain slices selectively reduced the magnitude of timing-dependent synaptic potentiation while leaving the magnitude of timing-dependent synaptic depression unchanged. The conductance-dependent suppression also sharpened the STDP curve, with reliable synaptic potentiation induced only when EPSPs and action potentials (APs) were paired within 8 ms of each other. Dual somatic and dendritic patch recordings suggested that the deficit in synaptic potentiation arose from shunting of dendritic EPSPs and APs. Using a biophysically detailed computational model, we were not only able to replicate the conductance-dependent shunting of dendritic potentials, but show that synaptic background can truncate calcium dynamics within dendritic spines in a way that affects potentiation more strongly than depression. This conductance-dependent regulation of synaptic plasticity may constitute a novel homeostatic mechanism that can prevent the runaway synaptic potentiation to which Hebbian networks are vulnerable.
The rapid and detailed recognition of human action from point-light displays is a remarkable ability and very robust against masking by motion signals. However, recognition of biological motion is strongly impaired when the typical point lights are replaced by pictures of complex objects. In a reaction time task and a detection in noise task, we asked subjects to decide if the walking direction is forward or backward. We found that complex objects as local elements impaired performance. When we compared different object categories, we found that human shapes as local objects gave more impairment than any other tested object category. Inverting or scrambling the human shapes restored the performance of walking perception. These results demonstrate an interference between object perception and biological motion recognition caused by shared processing capacities.
To assess the role of the prelimbic (PL) and infralimbic (IL) cortices in mediating strategy switching, rats were trained in a new automated task in a Y-maze allowing a careful analysis of rats' behavior. In this situation, rats can only use two egocentric (Right, Left) and two visual (Light, Dark) strategies. In the first experiment, rats with PL, IL, or PL/IL lesions were compared with sham-operated rats when trained to reach a criterion of 10 consecutive correct responses with a light strategy before being trained with a response strategy (rule shifting), and finally with the reversed response strategy (reversal). In the second experiment, sham-operated and PL-lesioned rats had their first two strategy switches in the reverse order, which was followed by a second rule shifting and reversal. The results indicate that lesions did not affect initial acquisition, but impaired the first rule shifting and reversal. Thorough analyses of rats' performance indicate that lesioned rats were still able to demonstrate some behavioral flexibility but have difficulties in solving response conflicts, which in turn may affect behavioral flexibility. Both areas were differentially involved in the resolution of response conflict, with the IL involved in the choice of strategy previously known to be nonvalid, and the PL in the selection and maintenance of that strategy.
Naive Drosophila larvae show vigorous chemotaxis toward many odorants including ethyl acetate (EA). Chemotaxis toward EA is substantially reduced after a 5-min pre-exposure to the odorant and recovers with a half-time of 20 min. An analogous behavioral decrement can be induced without odorant-receptor activation through channelrhodopsin-based, direct photoexcitation of odorant sensory neurons (OSNs). The neural mechanism of short-term habituation (STH) requires the (1) rutabaga adenylate cyclase; (2) transmitter release from predominantly GABAergic local interneurons (LNs); (3) GABA-A receptor function in projection neurons (PNs) that receive excitatory inputs from OSNs; and (4) NMDA-receptor function in PNs. These features of STH cannot be explained by simple sensory adaptation and, instead, point to plasticity of olfactory synapses in the antennal lobe as the underlying mechanism. Our observations suggest a model in which NMDAR-dependent depression of the OSN-PN synapse and/or NMDAR-dependent facilitation of inhibitory transmission from LNs to PNs contributes substantially to short-term habituation.
Connexin57 (Cx57) was previously reported in retinal cells but not in brain nerve cells. This occurrence was tested in this study, by searching for the expression of Cx57 RNA and protein transcripts during the postnatal development of the mouse CNS. Both the Cx57 RNA (investigated by reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR)) and the protein (Western-Blot and immunohistochemistry using a polyclonal antibody generated in chicken) transcripts were firstly expressed in the late postnatal development (P12). The expression of Cx57 in adult life (studied at P28, by in situ hybridization and immunohistochemical analysis) concerned few regions of the brain stem (inferior olive, lateral reticular nucleus and motor trigeminal nucleus), the cerebellum (Purkinje cells and cerebellar nuclei) and the spinal cord (alpha-motoneurons). Double immunohistochemical studies using the Cx57 antibody and antibodies, which specifically labelled neuronal nuclei (NeuN) and astrocyte cells glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP), showed the expression of Cx57 segregated in neuronal cells. The study also confirmed the expression of Cx57 in the horizontal cells of the retinal outer plexiform layer, reported in previous investigations. Given the expression of Cx57 in the cerebellum and pre-cerebellar nuclei, such as olivary and lateral reticular nuclei, a possible role of Cx57 was hypothesized in the electrical coupling of the cerebellum. This hypothesis was tested by searching for the expression of the Cx57 transcripts in the mouse cerebellum of the harmaline-tremor model. The up-regulation of the Cx57 transcripts reported in this model suggested a possible involvement of Cx57 in the electrotonic coupling of the cerebellar system.
Sustained exposure to nicotine is well known to increase the cell surface density of 42* neuronal nicotinic receptors both in vivo and in vitro, but the cellular mechanisms mediating this effect are equivocal. Using a pharmacological approach to investigate the effects of nicotine on receptor subunit expression and phosphorylation in SH-EP1 cells expressing human 4 and 2 nicotinic receptor subunits, we have demonstrated that incubation with nicotine for 24 h increased the expression of immature and mature forms of both 4 and 2 subunits in a concentration-dependent manner, and that inhibition of protein kinase C (PKC), but not cAMP-dependent protein kinase (PKA) inhibited the nicotine-induced increased expression of subunits. Incubation of cells with nicotine for 24 h also increased the phosphorylation of immature forms of 4 subunits similar to that induced by activation of either PKC or PKA. When cells were preincubated with nicotine, the PKC-mediated increased phosphorylation was inhibited; the PKA-mediated phosphorylation was unaltered. The phosphopeptide maps for immature 4 subunits following nicotine exposure or PKC activation were identical, and phosphoamino acid analyses indicated phosphorylation on serine residues only. Results indicate that nicotine-induced up regulation of 42 neuronal nicotinic receptors involves a PKC-dependent mechanism and likely reflects the ability of nicotine to activate PKC, leading to the phosphorylation of immature 4 subunits, promoting subunit assembly and receptor maturation. Because up regulation of these receptors has been implicated to mediate tolerance, locomotor sensitization and addiction to nicotine, results identify a potential new target for modulating the effects of nicotine on the brain.
Schwann cells line nerve fibers in the peripheral nervous system (PNS) and synthesize myelin. In addition, they support neuronal survival, neurite growth and regeneration. In dissociated cultures of postnatal mouse spiral ganglia, regenerating neurites spontaneously associate with Schwann cells. However, the mechanisms and consequences of interactions between cochlear Schwann cells and spiral ganglion neurites have not been examined. Further, the similarities and differences between cochlear Schwann cells and other PNS Schwann cells have not been studied. Experiments to examine these questions will rely on the ability to purify and characterize cochlear Schwann cells. Here we present methods for purifying Schwann cells from postnatal mouse cochleas and for transfecting them with expression plasmids. Dissociated spiral ganglia were plated on poly-D-lysine/laminin in medium containing neurotrophins, leukemia inhibitory factor (LIF), N2 supplement and serum and maintained for 5 days. Cells were harvested with trypsin/EDTA and subjected to an immuno-magnetic purification procedure. After 24 h in vitro, cultures were &gt;85% Schwann cells. Nucleofection of purified Schwann cells with pMax-green fluorescent protein (pMax-GFP) plasmid, or with pEGFP-C-vimentin plasmid returned &gt;45% transfection efficiency. These methods will allow the in-depth characterization of cochlear Schwann cells and an evaluation of their biochemical, functional, and genetic mechanisms that may promote neurite growth from the spiral ganglion.
Observation of actions performed by other individuals activates the onlooker's motor system in a way similar to real movement execution. The functioning of this mechanism in the pathological domain is not clear yet. The aim of this study was to explore whether action observation activates the motor system of patients affected by a task-specific form of dystonia, such as writer's cramp. Transcranial magnetic stimulation was applied over the primary motor cortex and motor evoked potentials were recorded from hand (FDI and ADM) and forearm (FCR) muscles at baseline and during observation of actions (grasping and writing) or images. Writing actions could be performed with healthy or dystonic movement patterns. Results showed a highly specific and reversed pattern of activation in the FDI muscle of the two groups. Differences between the two writing conditions were significantly opposite in the two groups: control subjects had higher activation during observation of the dystonic compared to the healthy action, whereas in patients observation of the healthy writing led to higher activation than the dystonic writing. This opposite corticospinal modulation might be explained by a different self-attribution of the observed actions in the two groups.
Polysialic acid (PSA) is a carbohydrate polymer added post-translationally on the neural cell adhesion molecule (NCAM) affecting its adhesion properties. It has been suggested that the presence of PSA in demyelinated lesions in multiple sclerosis could prevent axon-glia interactions inhibiting spontaneous remyelination. The enzyme St8siaIV is one of the two polysialyltransferases responsible for PSA synthesis, and it is predominantly active during adult life. Here we treated 8-10-weeks old St8siaIV deficient and wild-type mice for 5 weeks with cuprizone, which is a reliable model for de- and remyelination in the corpus callosum and cortex. Developmental myelination of the St8siaIV knock-out mice was not disturbed and adult mice showed normal myelin protein expression. Demyelination did not differ between transgenic and wild-type mice but early myelin protein re-expression and thus remyelination were accelerated in St8siaIV knock-out mice during the first week after withdrawal of the toxin. This was mainly due to enhanced oligodendrocyte precursor cells (OPC) differentiation and to a lesser extent to OPC recruitment. These data are proof of principle that PSA expression interferes at least to some extent with remyelination in vivo.
The present study investigated the subnuclear organization of collateralized efferent projection patterns from the mouse parabrachial nucleus (PbN), the second taste relay in rodents, to higher gustatory centers, including the ventroposteromedial nucleus of the thalamus (VPMpc), central nucleus of the amygdala (CeA) and lateral hypothalamus (LH). We made injections of the retrograde tracer red and green latex microspheres into the VMPpc and CeA (VPMpc-CeA group), VMPpc and LH (VPMpc-LH group) or CeA and LH (CeA-LH group, n=6 for each group). Injections into these areas preferentially resulted in retrograde labeling in the ipsilateral PbN in all groups. Cells projecting to the VPMpc, CeA, and LH were generally found in all subnuclei, but were differentially distributed. VPMpc-projecting cells predominated in gustatory-related subnuclei, CeA-projecting neurons predominated in the external lateral (el) subnucleus, and concentrated labeling was observed in the dorsal lateral subnucleus (dl) following LH injection. Double-labeled neurons were found for all groups, almost entirely ipsilaterally and primarily in the medial (m), waist area (wa), ventral lateral (vl) and el subnuclei. These results suggest that PbN neurons in different subdivisions have different projection and collateralization patterns to the VPMpc, CeA and LH. Functional implications of these projections are discussed with an emphasis on their roles in taste.
The local strength of pathological synchronization in the region of the subthalamic nucleus (STN) is emerging as a possible factor in the motor impairment of Parkinson's Disease (PD). In particular, correlations have been repeatedly demonstrated between treatment-induced suppressions of local oscillatory activity in the beta frequency band and improvements in motor performance. However, a mechanistic role for beta activity is brought into question by the difficulty in showing a correlation between such activity at rest and the motor deficit in patients withdrawn from medication. Here we recorded local field potential (LFP) activity from 36 subthalamic regions in 18 patients undergoing functional neurosurgery for the treatment of PD. We recorded directly from the contacts of the deep brain stimulation (DBS) electrodes as they were introduced in successive 2 mm steps, and assessed phase coherence as a measure of spatially extended, rather than local, oscillatory synchronization. We found that phase coherence in the beta frequency band correlated with the severity of Parkinsonian bradykinesia and rigidity, both in the limbs and axial body. Such correlations were frequency and site specific in so far as they were reduced when the lowermost contact of the DBS electrode was above the dorsal STN. Correlations with limb tremor occurred at sub-beta band frequencies and were more lateralized than those between beta activity and limb bradykinesia and rigidity. Phase coherence could account for up to 25% of the variance in motor scores between sides and patients. These new data suggest that the strength of spatially extended oscillatory synchronization, as well as the strength of local synchronization, may be worthwhile incorporating into modelling studies designed to inform surgical targeting, post-operative stimulation parameter selection and closed-loop stimulation regimes in PD. In addition, they strengthen the link between pathological synchronization and the different motor features of Parkinsonism.
Neonatal maternal separation (MS), stressful experience early in life, leads to the development of depression-like behaviors in the offspring later in life. This study was conducted to define the neural basis of depression-like behaviors observed in our MS model. Sprague-Dawley pups were separated from dam for 3 h daily during the first 2 weeks of birth (MS) or left undisturbed (NH). All pups were sacrificed on postnatal day 41 with/without 1 h of restraint stress. Restraint stress significantly increased c-Fos expression in the nucleus accumbens (NAcb) of NH pups, but not in MS. In NH pups, restraint stress increased dopamine levels not only in the NAcb but also in the midbrain dopamine neurons; however, these increases were not observed in MS. Gene expression of tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) in the ventral tegmental area (VTA) was increased by acute restraint in NH pups, but not in MS pups. The raphe serotonin level was lower in MS than in NH, and not significantly changed by acute restraint neither in NH nor in MS. Results reveal that experience of neonatal MS may lead to a long-term suppression in the mesolimbic dopamine system of the offspring later in life, in which an epigenetic control may be implicated, such as suppressed gene expression of TH in the midbrain. We conclude that a decreased activity of the mesolimbic dopamine system may play a role in the pathophysiology of depression-like behaviors by neonatal MS, in addition to a decreased serotonin level in the raphe nucleus.
Extinction reflects a decrease in the conditioned response (CR) following non-reinforcement of a conditioned stimulus. Behavioral evidence indicates that extinction involves an inhibitory learning mechanism in which the extinguished CR reappears with presentation of an unconditioned stimulus. However, recent studies on fear conditioning suggest that extinction erases the original conditioning if the time interval between fear acquisition and extinction is short. The present study examined the effects of different intervals between acquisition and extinction of the original memory in conditioned taste aversion (CTA). Male Long-Evans rats acquired CTA by associating a 0.2% sucrose solution with malaise induced by i.p. injection of 4 ml/kg 0.15 M LiCl. Two different time intervals, 5 and 24 h, between CTA acquisition and extinction were used. Five or 24 h after CTA acquisition, extinction trials were performed, in which a bottle containing 20 ml of a 0.2% sucrose solution was provided for 10 min without subsequent LiCl injection. If sucrose consumption during the extinction trials was greater than the average water consumption, then rats were considered to have reached CTA extinction. Rats subjected to extinction trials lasting 24 h, but not 5 h, after acquisition re-exhibited the extinguished CR following injection of 0.15 M LiCl alone 7 days after acquisition. Extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK) in the medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC) and basolateral nucleus of the amygdala (BLA) was examined by Western blot after the first extinction trial. ERK activation in the mPFC was induced after the extinction trial beginning 5 h after acquisition, whereas the extinction trial performed 24 h after acquisition induced ERK activation in the BLA. These data suggest that the original conditioning can be inhibited or retained by CTA extinction depending on the time interval between acquisition and extinction and that the ERK transduction pathway in the mPFC and BLA is differentially involved in these processes.
Hippocampus is a critical structure for the acquisition of morphine-induced conditioned place preference (CPP), which is a usual learning paradigm for assessing drug reward. However, the precise mechanisms remain largely unknown. Phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (PI3K) and its downstream targets, including Akt, mammalian target of Rapamycin (mTOR) and 70-kDa ribosomal S6 kinase (p70S6K), are critical molecules implicated in learning and memory. Here, we tested the role of PI3K/Akt-mTOR-p70S6K signaling pathway in morphine-induced CPP in the hippocampus. Our results showed that the acquisition of morphine CPP increased phosphorylation of Akt in the hippocampal CA3, but not in the nucleus accumbens (NAc), the ventral tegmental area (VTA) or the CA1. Moreover, the phosphorylated Akt exclusively expressed in the CA3 neurons. Likewise, levels of phosphorylated mTOR and p70S6K were significantly enhanced in the CA3 following morphine CPP. The alterations of these phosphorylated proteins are positively correlated with the acquisition of morphine CPP. More importantly, microinjection of PI3K inhibitor (LY294002) or mTOR inhibitor (Rapamycin) into the CA3 prevented the acquisition of CPP and inhibited the activation of PI3K-Akt signaling pathway. In addition, pre-infusion of -FNA (-funaltrexamine hydrochloride), a selective irreversible  opioid receptor antagonist, into CA3 significantly prevented the acquisition of CPP and impaired Akt phosphorylation. All these results strongly implied that the PI3K-Akt signaling pathway activated by  opioid receptor in hippocampal CA3 plays an important role in acquisition of morphine-induced CPP.
A growing interest was recently focused on the use of Botulinum neurotoxin serotype A (BoNT/A) for fighting pain. The aim of this study was to investigate the effects of BoNT/A on neuropathic pain. It was observed that BoNT/A is able to counteract neuropathic pain induced by chronic constriction injury (CCI) to the sciatic nerve both in mice and in rats. This effect is already present after a single intraplantar (i.pl.) or intrathecal (i.t.) neurotoxin administration that significantly reduces the sciatic nerve ligation-induced mechanical allodynia in mice and rats and thermal hyperalgesia in rats. This effect was evident starting 24 h after the administration of BoNT/A and it was long-lasting, being present 81 or 25 days after i.pl. injection of the higher dose in mice (15 pg/paw) and rats (75 pg/paw), respectively, and 35 days after i.t. injection in rats (75 pg/rat). Moreover, BoNT/A-injected mice showed a quicker recovery of the walking pattern and weight bearing compared to control groups. The behavioral improvement was accompanied by structural modifications, as revealed by the expression of cell division cycle 2 (Cdc2) and growth associated protein 43 (GAP-43) regeneration associated proteins, investigated by immunofluorescence and Western blotting in the sciatic nerve, and by the immunofluorescence expression of S100 and glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) Schwann cells proteins. In conclusion, the present research demonstrate long-lasting anti-allodynic and anti-hyperalgesic effects of BoNT/A in animal models of neuropathic pain together with an acceleration of regenerative processes in the injured nerve, as evidenced by both behavioral and immunohistochemistry/blotting analysis. These results may have important implications in the therapy of neuropathic pain.
The chakragati (ckr) mouse has been proposed as a model of aspects of schizophrenia. The mice, created serendipitously as a result of a transgenic insertional mutation, exhibit spontaneous circling, hyperactivity, hypertone of the dopamine system, reduced social interactions, enlarged lateral ventricles, deficits in pre-pulse inhibition of acoustic startle and deficits in latent inhibition of conditioned learning. In this study, the dose-dependent effects of antipsychotic drugs (haloperidol, pimozide, risperidone, clozapine, olanzapine, ziprasidone, quetiapine and aripiprazole) on the spontaneous hyperactivity of the mice were investigated. All the antipsychotic drugs tested dose-dependently suppressed spontaneous hyperactivity. Aripriprazole, which is known to be a dopamine D2 receptor partial agonist, exhibited a tri-phasic dose-response, initially suppressing hyperactivity at low doses, having little effect on hyperactivity at intermediate doses, and suppressing activity again at high doses. These data suggest that the spontaneous circling and hyperactivity of the ckr mouse may allow screening of candidate antipsychotic compounds, distinguishing compounds with aripriprazole-like profiles.
Pregnenolone sulfate (PS) acts as an excitatory neuromodulator and has a variety of neuropharmacological actions, such as memory enhancement and convulsant effects. In the present study, we investigated the effect of PS on glutamatergic spontaneous excitatory postsynaptic currents (sEPSCs) in acutely isolated dentate gyrus (DG) hilar neurons by use of a conventional whole-cell patch-clamp technique. PS significantly increased sEPSC frequency in a concentration-dependent manner without affecting the current amplitude, suggesting that PS acts presynaptically to increase the probability of spontaneous glutamate release. However, known molecular targets of PS, such as 7 nicotinic ACh, NMDA, 1 receptors and voltage-dependent Ca(2+) channels, were not responsible for the PS-induced increase in sEPSC frequency. In contrast, the PS-induced increase in sEPSC frequency was completely occluded in a Ca(2+)-free external solution, and was significantly reduced by either the depletion of presynaptic Ca(2+) stores or the blockade of ryanodine receptors, suggesting that PS elicits Ca(2+)-induced Ca(2+) release (CICR) within glutamatergic nerve terminals. In addition, the PS-induced increase in sEPSC frequency was completely occluded by transient receptor potential (TRP) channel blockers. These data suggest that PS increases spontaneous glutamate release onto acutely isolated hilar neurons via presynaptic CICR, which was triggered by the influx of Ca(2+) through presynaptic TRP channels. The PS-induced modulation of excitatory transmission onto hilar neurons could have a broad impact on the excitability of hilar neurons and affect the pathophysiological functions mediated by the hippocampus.
Clinical and preclinical studies suggest that the hippocampus has a role in the pathophysiology of major depression. In the learned helplessness (LH) animal model of depression after inescapable shocks (ISs) animals that display LH behavior have reduced cell proliferation in the hippocampus; this effect can be reversed by antidepressant treatment. Using this model, we compared rats that displayed LH behavior and rats that did not show LH behavior (NoLH) after ISs to determine whether reduced hippocampal cell proliferation is associated with the manifestation of LH behavior or is a general response to stress. Specifically, we examined cell proliferation, neurogenesis, and synaptic function in dorsal and ventral hippocampus of LH and NoLH animals and control rats that were not shocked. The LH rats had showed reduced cell proliferation, neurogenesis, and synaptic transmission in the dorsal hippocampus, whereas no changes were seen in the ventral hippocampus. These changes were not observed in the NoLH animals. In a group of NoLH rats that received the same amount of electrical shock as the LH rats to control for the unequal shocks received in these two groups, we observed changes in Ki-67(+) cells associated with acute stress. We conclude that reduced hippocampal cell proliferation and neurogenesis are associated with the manifestation of LH behavior and that the dorsal hippocampus is the most affected area.
The present study has been designed to explore the protective effect of montelukast (leukotriene receptor antagonist) against intrastriatal quinolinic acid (QA; 300 nmol) and malonic acid (MA; 6 mol) induced Huntington's like symptoms in rats. Quinolinic acid has been reported to induce excitotoxicity by stimulating the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor, causing calcium overload which in turn leads to the neurodegeneration. On the other hand, MA, being a reversible inhibitor of mitochondrial enzyme complex-II, leads to energy crisis and free radical generation. Recent studies have reported the therapeutic potential of leukotriene receptor antagonists in different neurodegenerative disorders. However, their exact role is yet to be established. The present study accordingly, is an attempt to investigate the effect of montelukast against QA and MA induced behavioral, biochemical and molecular alterations in rat striatum. Oxidative stress, mitochondrial enzyme complex and tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-) were evaluated on day 21st and 14th post intrastriatal QA and MA treatment, respectively. Findings of the present study demonstrate significant alteration in the locomotor activity and motor coordination as well as oxidative burden (increased lipid peroxidation, nitrite concentration and decreased endogenous antioxidants), mitochondrial enzyme complex (I, II and IV) activities and TNF- level, in both intrastriatal QA and MA treated animals. Further, montelukast (0.4, 0.8 mg/kg p.o.) treatment for 21 and 14 days respectively, attenuated the behavioral alterations, oxidative stress, mitochondrial dysfunction and TNF- level in these models of Huntington's disease in a significant manner. In conclusion, the present study emphasizes the neuroprotective potential of montelukast in the therapeutic management of Huntington like symptoms.
Activation of astrocytes surrounding amyloid plaques is a hallmark of Alzheimer disease (AD) with consequences yet poorly understood. Astrocytes are characterized by a high level of intercellular communication mediated by two gap-junction forming proteins, connexin-43 and connexin-30. As astroglial connexins (Cxs) are involved in neuronal dysfunctions and death, we have analyzed their expression pattern in two murine models of AD, that is two different -amyloid precursor protein (APP)/presenilin1(PS1) mice, using western blot and immunohistochemistry analyzed in confocal microscopy. In young mice at 2 months, before the emergence of -amyloid (A) deposits, the distribution of both Cxs was similar to that of control mice. In older animals4 months, local modifications in connexin immunostaining pattern were observed in the microenvironment of dense core A plaques. In a majority of plaques, an elevated immunoreactivity was detected for both Cxs contributing to the overall increase in connexin expression detected in 18 month old APP/PS1 mice. Activated microglial cells did not contribute to the elevated connexin immunoreactivity that was concentrated in astroglial processes infiltrating the plaques. In a small proportion of plaques (15%) a depletion of immunoreactive connexin puncta was also found. As astroglial Cxs participate in neuroglial interactions, their remodeling may contribute to neuronal alterations observed at the periplaque area.
We wanted to determine whether movement planning followed Fitts' law by investigating the relationship between movement planning and movement performance in experienced dancers executing a typical classical ballet step in which the big toe was pointed to targets at different distances and of different widths so as to obtain several indices of difficulty (ID). Movement time, velocity and variability at the target were the variables of movement performance kinematics; movement planning was evaluated by analysis of anticipatory postural adjustments (APAs) to assess their modulation at different IDs. Movement time and peak of velocity were found to scale with the ID only when individual movement distance across target widths was entered into the analysis. APA magnitude and duration both scaled according to movement parameters but not in the same way. APA magnitude scaled with movement velocity, while APA duration was sensitive to the amplitude-to-accuracy ratio following the ID for movements performed in the shortest time interval when on-line feedback control is probably not available. Here we show that timing of muscle activation acts as an independent central command that triggers fine-tuning for speed-accuracy trade-off.
Toll-like receptors (TLRs) are signaling receptors in the innate immune system that is a specific immunologic response to systemic bacterial infection. We investigated whether cerebral ischemia induced by the middle cerebral artery occlusion (MCAO) for 2 h differed in mice that lack a functional TLR3, TLR4, or TLR9 signaling pathway. TLR4, but not TLR3 or TLR9, knock-out (KO) mice had significantly smaller infarct area and volume at 24 h after ischemia-reperfusion (I/R) compared with wild-type mice. In addition, TLR4 KO mice improved in neurological deficits after I/R compared with wild-type mice. Moreover, we investigated the expression of TLR4 in the ischemic brain with immunohistochemistry. The number of TLR4-positive cells gradually increased from 1 h after MCAO to 22 h after I/R. We also examined the localization of TLR4 in the ischemic area. TLR4 was localized with CD11b-positive microglial cells in the ischemic striatum and the number of CD11b-positive microglial cells was smaller in TLR4 KO mice than in wild-type mice. In addition, we investigated the translocation of NF-B among TLR3, 4, and 9 KO mice after I/R injury using western blotting. NF-B's p65 subunit was decreased in TLR4 KO mice compared to wild-type mice, but not TLR3 or 9 KO mice. These data suggest that TLR4 knockout, but not TLR3 or TLR9 knockout, may play a neuroprotective role in ischemic brain injury induced by MCAO in mice.
Synapsins (SynI, SynII, SynIII) are a multigene family of synaptic vesicle (SV) phosphoproteins implicated in the regulation of synaptic transmission and plasticity. Synapsin I, II, I/II and I/II/III knockout mice are epileptic and SYN1/2 genes have been identified as major epilepsy susceptibility genes in humans. We analyzed cortico-hippocampal epileptiform activity induced by 4-aminopyridine (4AP) in acute slices from presymptomatic (3-weeks-old) and symptomatic (1-year-old) Syn I/II/III triple knockout (TKO) mice and aged-matched triple wild type (TWT) controls and assessed the effect of the SV-targeted antiepileptic drug (AED) levetiracetam (LEV) in reverting the epileptic phenotype. Both fast and slow interictal (I-IC) and ictal (IC) events were observed in both genotypes. The incidence of fast I-IC events was higher in presymptomatic TKO slices, while frequency and latency of I-IC events were similar in both genotypes. The major age and genotype effects were observed in IC activity, that was much more pronounced in 3-weeks-old TKO and persisted with age, while it disappeared from 1-year-old TWT slices. LEV virtually suppressed fast I-IC and IC discharges from 3-weeks-old TWT slices, while it only increased the latency of fast I-IC and IC activity in TKO slices. Analysis of I-IC events in patch-clamped CA1 pyramidal neurons revealed that LEV increased the inhibitory/excitatory ratio of I-IC activity in both genotypes. The lower LEV potency in TKO slices of both ages was associated with a decreased expression of SV2A, a SV protein acting as LEV receptor, in cortex and hippocampus. The results demonstrate that deletion of Syn genes is associated with a higher propensity to 4AP-induced epileptic paroxysms that precedes the onset of epilepsy and consolidates with age. LEV ameliorates such hyper excitability by enhancing the inhibition/excitation ratio, although the effect is hindered in TKO slices which exhibit a concomitant decrease in the levels of the LEV receptor SV2A.
Aerobic exercise has been well established to promote enhanced learning and memory in both human and non-human animals. Exercise regimens enhance blood perfusion, neo-vascularization, and neurogenesis in nervous system structures associated with learning and memory. The impact of specific plastic changes to learning and memory performance in exercising animals are not well understood. The current experiment was designed to investigate the contributions of angiogenesis and neurogenesis to learning and memory performance by pharmacologically blocking each process in separate groups of exercising animals prior to visual spatial memory assessment. Results from our experiment indicate that angiogenesis is an important component of learning as animals receiving an angiogenesis inhibitor exhibit retarded Morris water maze (MWM) acquisition. Interestingly, our results also revealed that neurogenesis inhibition improves learning and memory performance in the MWM. Animals that received the neurogenesis inhibitor displayed the best overall MWM performance. These results point to the importance of vascular plasticity in learning and memory function and provide empirical evidence to support the use of manipulations that enhance vascular plasticity to improve cognitive function and protect against natural cognitive decline.
Previous electrophysiological studies revealed that human faces elicit an early visual event-related potential (ERP) within the occipito-temporal cortex, the N170 component. Although face perception has been proposed to rely on automatic processing, the impact of selective attention on N170 remains controversial both in young and elderly individuals. Using early visual ERP and alpha power analysis, we assessed the influence of aging on selective attention to faces during delayed-recognition tasks for face and letter stimuli, examining 36 elderly and 20 young adults with preserved cognition. Face recognition performance worsened with age. Aging induced a latency delay of the N1 component for faces and letters, as well as of the face N170 component. Contrasting with letters, ignored faces elicited larger N1 and N170 components than attended faces in both age groups. This counterintuitive attention effect on face processing persisted when scenes replaced letters. In contrast with young, elderly subjects failed to suppress irrelevant letters when attending faces. Whereas attended stimuli induced a parietal alpha band desynchronization within 300-1000 ms post-stimulus with bilateral-to-right distribution for faces and left lateralization for letters, ignored and passively viewed stimuli elicited a central alpha synchronization larger on the right hemisphere. Aging delayed the latency of this alpha synchronization for both face and letter stimuli, and reduced its amplitude for ignored letters. These results suggest that due to their social relevance, human faces may cause paradoxical attention effects on early visual ERP components, but they still undergo classical top-down control as a function of endogenous selective attention. Aging does not affect the face bottom-up alerting mechanism but reduces the top-down suppression of distracting letters, possibly impinging upon face recognition, and more generally delays the top-down suppression of task-irrelevant information.
Previous studies have demonstrated that catecholaminergic, tyrosine hydroxylase (TH)-immunoreactive (IR) perikarya and fibers are widely distributed in the human hypothalamus. Since TH is the key and rate-limiting enzyme for catecholaminergic synthesis, these IR neurons may represent dopaminergic, noradrenergic or adrenergic neural elements. However, the distribution and morphology of these neurotransmitter systems in the human hypothalamus is not entirely known. Since the different catecholaminergic systems can be detected by identifying the neurons containing the specific key enzymes of catecholaminergic synthesis, in the present study we mapped the catecholaminergic elements in the human hypothalamus using immunohistochemistry against the catecholaminergic enzymes, TH, dopamine beta-hydroxylase (DBH) and phenylethanolamine-N-methyltransferase (PNMT). Only a few, PNMT-IR, adrenergic neuronal elements were found mainly in the infundibulum and the periventricular zone. DBH-IR structures were more widely distributed in the human hypothalamus occupying chiefly the infundibulum/infundibular nucleus, periventricular area, supraoptic and paraventricular nuclei. Dopaminergic elements were detected by utilizing double label immunohistochemistry. First, the DBH-IR elements were visualized; then the TH-IR structures, that lack DBH, were detected with a different chromogen. In our study, we conclude that all of the catecholaminergic perikarya and the majority of the catecholaminergic fibers represent dopaminergic neurons in the human hypothalamus. Due to the extremely small number of PNMT-IR, adrenergic structures in the human hypothalamus, the DBH-IR fibers represent almost exclusively noradrenergic neuronal processes. These findings suggest that the juxtapositions between the TH-IR and numerous peptidergic systems revealed by previous reports indicate mostly dopaminergic synapses.
Methamphetamine is a drug of abuse that can induce oxidative stress and neurotoxicity to dopaminergic neurons. We have previously reported that oxidative stress promotes the liberation of intracellular Zn(2+) from metal-binding proteins, which, in turn, can initiate neuronal injurious signaling processes. Here, we report that methamphetamine mobilizes Zn(2+) in catecholaminergic rat pheochromocytoma (PC12) cells, as measured by an increase in Zn(2+)-regulated gene expression driven by the metal response element transcription factor-1. Moreover, methamphetamine-liberated Zn(2+) was responsible for a pronounced enhancement in voltage-dependent K(+) currents in these cells, a process that normally accompanies Zn(2+)-dependent cell injury. Overnight exposure to methamphetamine induced PC12 cell death. This toxicity could be prevented by the cell-permeant zinc chelator N,N,N', N'-tetrakis(2-pyridylmethyl)-ethylenediamine (TPEN), and by over-expression of the Zn(2+)-binding protein metallothionein 3 (MT3), but not by tricine, an extracellular Zn(2+) chelator. The toxicity of methamphetamine to PC12 cells was enhanced by the presence of co-cultured microglia. Remarkably, under these conditions, TPEN no longer protected but, in fact, dramatically exacerbated methamphetamine toxicity, tricine again being without effect. Over-expression of MT3 in PC12 cells did not mimic these toxicity-enhancing actions of TPEN, suggesting that the chelator affected microglial function. Interestingly, P2X receptor antagonists reversed the toxicity-enhancing effect of TPEN. As such, endogenous levels of intracellular Zn(2+) may normally interfere with the activation of P2X channels in microglia. We conclude that Zn(2+) plays a significant but complex role in modulating the cellular response of PC12 cells to methamphetamine exposure in both the absence and presence of microglia.
Humans and other species are unable to stand perfectly still; their bodies continuously sway during stance even during concentrated efforts to avoid such movement. Traditionally, this phenomenon has been viewed as an inability of the central nervous system (CNS) to maintain perfect equilibrium because of its reliance on feedback from sensory signals to control corrective ground-reaction forces. Using a novel method to minimize movements of the body during stance without subject awareness, we have made the unique discovery that ground-reaction forces are generated independent of body sway, as evidenced by observations of increased centre of pressure variability when postural sway is minimized experimentally. Contrary to traditional views, our results suggest that postural sway may be used by the CNS as an exploratory mechanism to ensure that continuous dynamic inputs are provided by multiple sensory systems. This novel paradigm has the potential to significantly shift long-standing views on balance, and questions the theoretical basis behind conventional treatment strategies for balance deficits associated with age and disease.
The effects of (9)-tetrahydrocannabinol (THC), the psychoactive component of cannabis, on the function of 5-HT type 3 (5-HT(3)) receptors were investigated using a two-electrode voltage clamp technique in Xenopus oocytes, and a whole-cell patch clamp technique in rat nodose ganglion neurons. In oocytes injected with 3 ng cRNA of 5-HT(3A) receptor, THC reversibly inhibited currents evoked with 5-HT (1 M) in a concentration-dependent manner (IC(50)=1.2 M). The extent of THC inhibition was inversely correlated with the amount of cRNA injected and the mean 5-HT(3A) receptor current densities. Pretreatment with actinomycin D, which inhibits transcription, decreased the mean 5-HT(3) receptor current density and increased the extent of THC inhibition on 5-HT(3) receptor-mediated currents. The IC(50) values for THC increased from 285 nM to 1.2 M in oocytes injected with 1 and 3 ng of 5-HT(3A) cRNA, respectively. In radioligand binding studies on membrane preparations of oocytes expressing 5-HT(3A) receptors, THC did not alter the specific binding of a 5-HT(3A) receptor antagonist, [(3)H]GR65630. In the presence of 1 M THC, the maximum 5-HT-induced response was also inhibited without a significant change in 5-HT potency, indicating that THC acts as a noncompetitive antagonist on 5-HT(3) receptors. In adult rat nodose ganglion neurons, application of 1 M THC caused a significant inhibition of 5-HT(3) receptors, extent of which correlated with the density of 5-HT-induced currents, indicating that the observed THC effects occur in mammalian neurons. The inhibition of 5-HT(3) receptors by THC may contribute to its pharmacological actions in nociception and emesis.
To investigate the minimum neuron and neurite densities required for synchronized bursts, we cultured rat cortical neurons on planar multi-electrode arrays (MEAs) at five plating densities (2500, 1000, 500, 250, and 100 cells/mm(2)) using two culture media: Neuron Culture Medium and Dulbecco's Modified Eagle Medium supplemented with serum (DMEM/serum). Long-term recording of spontaneous electrical activity clarified that the cultures exhibiting synchronized bursts required an initial plating density of at least 250 cells/mm(2) for Neuron Culture Medium and 500 cells/mm(2) for DMEM/serum. Immediately after electrical recording, immunocytochemistry of microtubule-associated protein 2 (MAP2) and Neurofilament 200 kD (NF200) was performed directly on MEAs to investigate the actual densities of neurons and neurites forming the networks. Immunofluorescence observation revealed that the construction of complicated neuronal networks required the same initial plating density as for synchronized bursts, and that overly sparse cultures showed significant decreases of neurons and neurites. We also found that the final densities of surviving neurons at 1 month decreased greatly compared with the initial plating densities and became saturated in denser cultures. In addition, the area of neurites and the number of nuclei were saturated in denser cultures. By comparing both the results of electrophysiological recording and immunocytochemical observation, we revealed that there is a minimum threshold of neuron densities that must be met for the exhibition of synchronized bursts. Interestingly, these minimum densities of MAP2-positive final neurons did not differ between the two culture media; the density was approximately 50 neurons/mm(2). This value was obtained in the cultures with the initial plating densities of 250 cells/mm(2) for Neuron Culture Medium and 500 cells/mm(2) for DMEM/serum.
Following unilateral chronic constriction injury (CCI) of the sciatic nerve, histochemical and gene expression changes were examined in the rat nucleus accumbens (NAcc), a region critical to affective-motivational regulation. Rats were categorised as having Pain alone (45%) or Pain and Disability (30%), on the basis of either unaltered or decreased dominance behaviour in the resident-intruder paradigm, respectively. Tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) expression was significantly increased bilaterally, throughout the rostrocaudal extent of the NAcc in Pain alone animals. Increased TH likely reflects increased dopamine levels in the Pain alone group, which may modulate dopamine receptor subtype 2 (D2) receptor expression. Stereological analyses of D2 receptor immunoreactive (D2-IR) cells revealed lateralised changes which correlated significantly with dominance behaviour. In the contralateral NAcc, D2-IR negatively correlated with post-CCI dominance behaviour (i.e. Pain alone animals have decreased D2-IR), whereas ipsilaterally there was a positive correlation between D2-IR and post-CCI dominance behaviour (i.e. Pain and Disability animals have decreased D2-IR). Western blots for D2 protein expression confirmed these correlations. Additionally, D2 mRNA expression within the NAcc showed lateralised and group specific changes. In the ipsilateral NAcc D2 mRNA was increased in Pain alone animals. It is hypothesised that increased D2 mRNA in the ipsilateral NAcc of Pain alone animals may be a protective mechanism, maintaining D2-IR despite increased dopamine, which may otherwise induce receptor desensitisation. D2 mRNA is not altered in the ipsilateral NAcc of Pain and Disability animals, therefore loss of D2-IR is likely, albeit by an alternate mechanism. In summary, unilateral CCI in rats induces specific and lateralised adaptations in the dopaminergic circuitry of the NAcc. These distinct neural adaptations correlate with changes in social behaviour, and likely underlie some of the affective-motivational state changes associated with neuropathic pain in a subset of rats (i.e. Pain and Disability group).
Sensitization to mechanical stimuli is important in most pain syndromes. We evaluated the populations of nociceptors mediating mechanical hyperalgesia and those mediating mu-opioid receptor (MOR) and delta-opioid receptor (DOR) agonist-induced inhibition of hyperalgesia, in the rat. We found that: (1) intradermal injection of both the endogenous ligand for the Ret receptor, glia-derived growth factor (GDNF), and the ligand for the tropomyosin receptor kinase A (TrkA) receptor, nerve growth factor (NGF)-which are present on distinct populations of nociceptors-both produce mechanical hyperalgesia; (2) DOR agonist 4-[(R)-[(2S,5R)-4-allyl-2,5-dimethylpiperazin-1-yl](3-methoxyphenyl)methyl]-N,N-diethylbenzamide (SNC) but not MOR agonist [D-Ala2, N-MePhe4, Gly-ol]-enkephalin (DAMGO) inhibit GDNF-induced hyperalgesia; (3) both DAMGO and SNC inhibit NGF hyperalgesia, even in rats pretreated with isolectin B4 (IB4)-saporin, a toxin that destroys IB4-binding neurons; (4) co-administration of low doses of DAMGO and SNC produce enhanced analgesia, and; (5) repeated administration of DAMGO produces cross-tolerance to the analgesic effect of SNC. These findings demonstrate that, most nociceptors have a role in mechanical hyperalgesia, only the DOR agonist inhibits GDNF hyperalgesia, and MOR and DOR are co-localized on a functionally important population of TrkA-positive nociceptors.
Purines such as ATP act as extracellular messengers through specific purinergic receptors. Three different classes of purinergic receptors have been identified and termed P1, P2X and P2Y. The purinergic receptor subunit P2X2 is a ligand-gated ion channel that is widely expressed by neurons in the central nervous system. The aim of this study was to study the cellular localization and to identify the chemical phenotypes of ionotropic P2X2 receptor (P2X2R)-containing neurons in the rat mediobasal hypothalamus by immunohistochemistry using three different P2X2R antisera, with special reference to neurons that influence food intake and body weight. P2X2R immunoreactivity was mainly observed in cell bodies and neural extensions located in the ventromedial part of the hypothalamic arcuate nucleus, a subregion of the nucleus with a weak blood-brain barrier (BBB). At the subcellular level, P2X2R immunoreactivity was located to the periphery of individual cells, likely representing the plasma membrane. Many P2X2R-immunoreactive cell bodies in the arcuate nucleus contained the orexigenic peptides neuropeptide Y (NPY) and agouti-related protein (AgRP), and the GABA-synthesizing enzyme glutamic acid decarboxylase (GAD). In contrast, P2X2R immunoreactive cell bodies of the arcuate nucles only occasionally contained the anorexigenic peptides -melanocyte-stimulating hormone (-MSH) or cocaine- and amphetamine-regulated transcript (CART), or the opioid peptide dynorphin (DYN). There was no evidence for colocalization of P2X2R with somatostatin or neuronal nitric oxide synthase (nNOS) in neurons of the arcuate nucleus. In the parvocellular part of the paraventricular nucleus, P2X2R was demonstrated in some corticotropin-releasing hormone (CRH), thyrotropin-releasing hormone (TRH) and CART-containing neurons. In some cell bodies of the lateral hypothalamic area P2X2R was colocalized with DYN. The presence of P2X2R immunoreactivity in primarily orexigenic NPY/AgRP/GABA-containing neurons of the arcuate nucleus suggests that extracellular ATP has a regulatory action on this neuronal population located in a strategic position of the brain.
Methyl-CpG-binding protein 2 (MeCP2) deficiency causes Rett syndrome (RTT), a neurodevelopmental disorder characterized by severe cognitive impairment, synaptic dysfunction, and hyperexcitability. Previously we reported that the hippocampus of MeCP2-deficient mice (Mecp2(-/y)), a mouse model for RTT, is more susceptible to hypoxia. To identify the underlying mechanisms we now focused on the anoxic responses of wildtype (WT) and Mecp2(-/y) CA1 neurons in acute hippocampal slices. Intracellular recordings revealed that Mecp2(-/y) neurons show only reduced or no hyperpolarizations early during cyanide-induced anoxia, suggesting potassium channel (K(+) channel) dysfunction. Blocking adenosine-5'-triphosphate-sensitive K(+) channels (K(ATP-)) and big-conductance Ca(2+)-activated K(+) channels (BK-channels) did not affect the early anoxic hyperpolarization in either genotype. However, blocking Ca(2+) release from the endoplasmic reticulum almost abolished the anoxic hyperpolarizations in Mecp2(-/y) neurons. Single-channel recordings confirmed that neither K(ATP)- nor BK-channels are the sole mediators of the early anoxic hyperpolarization. Instead, anoxia Ca(2+)-dependently activated various small/intermediate-conductance K(+) channels in WT neurons, which was less evident in Mecp2(-/y) neurons. Yet, pharmacologically increasing the Ca(2+) sensitivity of small/intermediate-conductance K(Ca) channels fully restored the anoxic hyperpolarization in Mecp2(-/y) neurons. Furthermore, Ca(2+) imaging unveiled lower intracellular Ca(2+) levels in resting Mecp2(-/y) neurons and reduced anoxic Ca(2+) transients with diminished Ca(2+) release from intracellular stores. In conclusion, the enhanced hypoxia susceptibility of Mecp2(-/y) hippocampus is primarily associated with disturbed Ca(2+) homeostasis and diminished Ca(2+) rises during anoxia. This secondarily attenuates the activation of K(Ca) channels and thereby increases the hypoxia susceptibility of Mecp2(-/y) neuronal networks. Since cytosolic Ca(2+) levels also determine neuronal excitability and synaptic plasticity, Ca(2+) homeostasis may constitute a promising target for pharmacotherapy in RTT.
We have examined the basic electrophysiology and pharmacology of cells in the anterior caudal lobe (CLa) of the mormyrid cerebellum. Intracellular recordings were performed in an in vitro slice preparation using the whole-cell patch recording method. The responses of cells to parallel fiber (PF) and climbing fiber (CF) stimulation and to somatic current injection were recorded, and then characterized by bath application of receptor and ion channel blockers. Using biocytin or neurobiotin, these cells were also morphologically identified after recording to ensure their classification. Efferent cells and two subtypes of Purkinje cells were identified on the basis of their physiology and morphology. While the majority of Purkinje cells fire a single type of spike that is mediated by Na(+), some fire a large broad spike mediated by Ca(2+) and a narrow spike mediated by Na(+) at resting potential levels. By patching one recording electrode to the soma and another to one of the proximal dendrites of the same cell simultaneously, it was found that the Na(+) spike has an axonal origin and the Ca(2+) spike is generated in the soma-dendritic region of Purkinje cells. Efferent cells fire a single type of Na(+) spike only. Despite variations in their physiology and morphology, all cell types responded to PF stimulation with graded excitatory postsynaptic potentials (EPSPs) mediated by AMPA receptors. However, none of the efferent cells and only some of the Purkinje cells responded to CF activation with a large, AMPA receptor-mediated all-or-none EPSPs. We conclude that the functional circuitry of the CLa resembles that of other regions of the mormyrid cerebellum and is largely similar to that of the mammalian cerebellum.
During off-line consolidation a motor skill becomes less vulnerable to interference (stabilisation) and improves in performance (enhancement). Here we examined whether off-line consolidation contributes to the process of generalisation in the extrinsic and intrinsic coordinate frame in the motor domain. Participants trained with the left hand a sequential finger tapping task that has proved sensitive to off-line consolidation. Generalisation was tested by the ability to transfer the original sequence (extrinsic transformation) or the mirror sequence (intrinsic transformation) to the right hand, and this was compared with performance on a new sequence not learned before. To determine acute effects on generalisation, transfer was assessed immediately after training of the left hand. To study the effects of off-line consolidation participants were tested after an interval of daytime (training at 8 am and retrieval test on the transfer sequences at 8 pm) or after an interval of night-time sleep (training at 8 pm and retrieval test on the transfer sequences at 8 am). Acutely, training of the left hand induced significant transfer effects to the right hand for the extrinsic transformation of the sequence, but there was no advantage for the intrinsic transformation. After a period of daytime wakefulness the transfer from the left to the right hand for the extrinsic sequence transformation had vanished and, again, there was no transfer effect for the intrinsic transformation of the sequence. By contrast, nocturnal sleep saved the initial transfer effect for the extrinsic sequence transformation. The intrinsic sequence transformation was not affected by sleep. Our results show that an effector-independent representation in an extrinsic co-ordinate frame of a skill develops soon after initial training. Sleep has the capacity to consolidate this transfer and, in this way, contributes to the generalisation of a motor skill.
Efficient and dependable methods for detection and measurement of synaptic events are important for studies of synaptic physiology and neuronal circuit connectivity. As the published methods with detection algorithms based upon amplitude thresholding and fixed or scaled template comparisons are of limited utility for detection of signals with variable amplitudes and superimposed events that have complex waveforms, previous techniques are not applicable for detection of evoked synaptic events in photostimulation and other similar experimental situations. Here we report on a novel technique that combines the design of a bank of approximate matched filters with the detection and estimation theory to automatically detect and extract photostimluation-evoked excitatory postsynaptic currents (EPSCs) from individually recorded neurons in cortical circuit mapping experiments. The sensitivity and specificity of the method were evaluated on both simulated and experimental data, with its performance comparable to that of visual event detection performed by human operators. This new technique was applied to quantify and compare the EPSCs obtained from excitatory pyramidal cells and fast-spiking interneurons. In addition, our technique has been further applied to the detection and analysis of inhibitory postsynaptic current (IPSC) responses. Given the general purpose of our matched filtering and signal recognition algorithms, we expect that our technique can be appropriately modified and applied to detect and extract other types of electrophysiological and optical imaging signals.

High-aspect ratio ZnO nanowires have become one of the most promising products in the nanosciences within the past few years with a multitude of applications at the interface of optics and electronics. The interaction of zinc with cells and organisms is complex, with both deficiency and excess causing severe effects. The emerging significance of zinc for many cellular processes makes it imperative to investigate the biological safety of ZnO nanowires in order to guarantee their safe economic exploitation. In this study, ZnO nanowires were found to be toxic to human monocyte macrophages (HMMs) at similar concentrations as ZnCl(2). Confocal microscopy on live cells confirmed a rise in intracellular Zn(2+) concentrations prior to cell death. In vitro, ZnO nanowires dissolved very rapidly in a simulated body fluid of lysosomal pH, whereas they were comparatively stable at extracellular pH. Bright-field transmission electron microscopy (TEM) showed a rapid macrophage uptake of ZnO nanowire aggregates by phagocytosis. Nanowire dissolution occurred within membrane-bound compartments, triggered by the acidic pH of the lysosomes. ZnO nanowire dissolution was confirmed by scanning electron microscopy/energy-dispersive X-ray spectrometry. Deposition of electron-dense material throughout the ZnO nanowire structures observed by TEM could indicate adsorption of cellular components onto the wires or localized zinc-induced protein precipitation. Our study demonstrates that ZnO nanowire toxicity in HMMs is due to pH-triggered, intracellular release of ionic Zn(2+) rather than the high-aspect nature of the wires. Cell death had features of necrosis as well as apoptosis, with mitochondria displaying severe structural changes. The implications of these findings for the application of ZnO nanowires are discussed.
How higher-order sensory neurons generate complex selectivity from their simpler inputs is a fundamental question in neuroscience. The lobula giant movement detector (LGMD) is such a visual neuron in the locust Schistocerca americana that responds selectively to objects approaching on a collision course or their two-dimensional projections, looming stimuli [1-4]. To study how this selectivity arises, we designed an apparatus allowing us to stimulate, individually and independently, a sizable fraction of the 15,000 elementary visual inputs impinging retinotopically onto the LGMD's dendritic fan [5-7] (Figure1Ai). We then recorded intracellularly invivo throughout the visual pathway, assessing the LGMD's activity and that of all three successive presynaptic stages conveying local excitatory inputs. Our results suggest that as collision becomes increasingly imminent, the strength of these inputs increases, whereas their latency decreases. This latency decrease favors summation of inputs activated sequentially throughout the looming sequence, making the neuron maximally sensitive to collision-bound trajectories. Thus, the LGMD's selectivity arises partially from presynaptic mechanisms that synchronize a large population of inputs during a looming stimulus and subsequent detection by postsynaptic mechanisms within the neuron itself. Analogous mechanisms are likely to underlie the tuning properties of visual neurons in other species as well.

Individuals often eat calorically dense, highly palatable &quot;comfort&quot; foods during stress for stress relief. This article demonstrates that palatable food intake (limited intake of sucrose drink) reduces neuroendocrine, cardiovascular, and behavioral responses to stress in rats. Artificially sweetened (saccharin) drink reproduces the stress dampening, whereas oral intragastric gavage of sucrose is without effect. Together, these results suggest that the palatable/rewarding properties of sucrose are necessary and sufficient for stress dampening. In support of this finding, another type of natural reward (sexual activity) similarly reduces stress responses. Ibotenate lesions of the basolateral amygdala (BLA) prevent stress dampening by sucrose, suggesting that neural activity in the BLA is necessary for the effect. Moreover, sucrose intake increases mRNA and protein expression in the BLA for numerous genes linked with functional and/or structural plasticity. Lastly, stress dampening by sucrose is persistent, which is consistent with long-term changes in neural activity after synaptic remodeling. Thus, natural rewards, such as palatable foods, provide a general means of stress reduction, likely via structural and/or functional plasticity in the BLA. These findings provide a clearer understanding of the motivation for consuming palatable foods during times of stress and influence therapeutic strategies for the prevention and/or treatment of obesity and other stress-related disorders.
Ca(2+)/calmodulin protein kinase II (CaMKII) has a central role in regulating neuronal excitability. It is well established that CaMKII translocates to excitatory synapses following strong glutamatergic stimuli that induce NMDA-receptor (NMDAR)-dependent long-term potentiation in CA1 hippocampal neurons. We now show that CaMKII translocates to inhibitory but not excitatory synapses in response to more moderate NMDAR-activating stimuli that trigger GABA(A)-receptor (GABA(A)R) insertion and enhance inhibitory transmission. Such moderate NMDAR activation causes Thr286 autophosphorylation of CaMKII, which our results demonstrate is necessary and sufficient, under basal conditions, to localize CaMKII at inhibitory synapses and enhance surface GABA(A)R expression. Although stronger glutamatergic stimulation coupled to AMPA receptor insertion also elicits Thr286 autophosphorylation, accumulation of CaMKII at inhibitory synapses is prevented under these conditions by the phosphatase calcineurin. This preferential targeting of CaMKII to glutamatergic or GABAergic synapses provides neurons with a mechanism whereby activity can selectively potentiate excitation or inhibition through a single kinase mediator.
Perceptual learning effects demonstrate that the adult visual system retains neural plasticity. If perceptual learning holds any value as a treatment tool for amblyopia, trained improvements in performance must generalize. Here we investigate whether spatial frequency discrimination learning generalizes within task to other spatial frequencies, and across task to contrast sensitivity. Before and after training, we measured contrast sensitivity and spatial frequency discrimination (at a range of reference frequencies 1, 2, 4, 8, 16 c/deg). During training, normal and amblyopic observers were divided into three groups. Each group trained on a spatial frequency discrimination task at one reference frequency (2, 4, or 8 c/deg). Normal and amblyopic observers who trained at lower frequencies showed a greater rate of within task learning (at their reference frequency) compared to those trained at higher frequencies. Compared to normals, amblyopic observers showed greater within task learning, at the trained reference frequency. Normal and amblyopic observers showed asymmetrical transfer of learning from high to low spatial frequencies. Both normal and amblyopic subjects showed transfer to contrast sensitivity. The direction of transfer for contrast sensitivity measurements was from the trained spatial frequency to higher frequencies, with the bandwidth and magnitude of transfer greater in the amblyopic observers compared to normals. The findings provide further support for the therapeutic efficacy of this approach and establish general principles that may help develop more effective protocols for the treatment of developmental visual deficits.
In view of all the reported evidence by electromyography in the 1970s, by histology in the 1980s, and by cerebral imagery since the 2000s, Duane retraction syndrome (DRS) has been described as the consequence of a congenital anomaly of the 6th cranial nerve nuclei with aberrant innervations by supply from the 3rd cranial nerve. Both genetic and environmental factors are likely to play a role when the cranial nerves and ocular muscles are developing between the 4th and the 8th week of gestation. New data from eye movement recordings contributed to better understanding the binocular control of saccades. Modeling of saccades in DRS seems promising for the quantification of the innervational deficit and the mechanical properties of the eye plant. The usual clinical classification of DRS needs to be updated in order to match more accurately the underlying dysinnervation of the extra ocular muscles and to illustrate the continuum that exists between the various forms. This review aims to summarize the major findings about DRS and to guide the clinician in the surgical management of this particular form of strabismus.
The present study develops an explicit and predictive computational model of neonate saccades based on the interaction of several simple mechanisms, including the tendency to fixate towards areas of high contrast, and the decay and recovery of a world-centered contrast representation simulating a low-level inhibition of return mechanism. Emergent properties similar to early visual behaviors develop, including the externality effect (or tendency to focus on external then internal features). The age-associated progression of this effect is modulated by the decay period of the model's contrast representation, where the high-level behavior of either scanning broadly or locally is modulated by a single decay parameter.



Visual perception is dependent not only on low-level sensory input but also on high-level cognitive factors such as attention. In this paper, we sought to determine whether attentional processes can be internally monitored for the purpose of enhancing behavioural performance. To do so, we developed a novel paradigm involving an orientation discrimination task in which observers had the freedom to delay target presentation--by any amount required--until they judged their attentional focus to be complete. Our results show that discrimination performance is significantly improved when individuals self-monitor their level of visual attention and respond only when they perceive it to be maximal. Although target delay times varied widely from trial-to-trial (range 860 ms-12.84 s), we show that their distribution is Gaussian when plotted on a reciprocal latency scale. We further show that the neural basis of the delay times for judging attentional status is well explained by a linear rise-to-threshold model. We conclude that attentional mechanisms can be self-monitored for the purpose of enhancing human decision-making processes, and that the neural basis of such processes can be understood in terms of a simple, yet broadly applicable, linear rise-to-threshold model.
Intensive glycemic control during diabetes is associated with an increased incidence of hypoglycemia, which is the major barrier in blood glucose homeostasis during diabetes therapy. The CNS neurotransmitters play an important role in the regulation of glucose homeostasis. In the present study, we showed the effects of hypoglycemia in diabetic and non- diabetic rats on motor functions and alterations of GABA receptor and CREB expression in the cerebellum. Cerebellar dysfunction is associated with seizure generation, motor deficits and memory impairment. Scatchard analysis of [(3)H]GABA binding in the cerebellum of diabetic hypoglycemic and control hypoglycemic rats showed significant (P&lt;0.01) decrease in B(max) and K(d) compared to diabetic and control rats. Real-time PCR amplification of GABA receptor subunit GABA(A1) and GAD showed significant (P&lt;0.001) down-regulation in the cerebellum of hypoglycemic rats compared to diabetic and control rats. Confocal imaging study confirmed the decreased GABA receptors in hypoglycemic rats. CREB mRNA expression was down-regulated during recurrent hypoglycemia. Both diabetic and non-diabetic hypoglycemic rats showed impaired performance in grid walk test compared to diabetic and control. Impaired GABA receptor and CREB expression along with motor function deficit were more prominent in hypoglycemic rats than hyperglycemic which showed that hypoglycemia is causing more neuronal damage at molecular level. These molecular changes observed during hypo/hyperglycemia contribute to motor and learning deficits which has clinical significance in diabetes treatment.


Numerous studies have been made in recent years addressing the effect of physical exercise on brain cortical activity and changes in mood. This research, however, was restricted to inadequate study designs in the elderly. In these times of an aging society, with the daily increasing interest in the benefits of physical exercise, investigations of the interrelationships of psycho-physiological elements of physical exercise seem to be progressively necessary. Using the model of frontal asymmetry, we hypothesized, that physical exercise by elderly persons at a self-selected pace increases left frontal alpha activity and is associated with a shift in mood to the positive. An electroencephalography (EEG) on two frontal positions (Fp1, Fp2) was made before and after walking at a self-selected pace for 45-60min and the state of the respective moods noted. The equation (right-left)/(right+left) was used to calculate frontal asymmetry as a marker of approach-related emotions. Key findings after walking were (1) a shift of the alpha-1 (7.5-10.0Hz) activation towards the right frontal brain areas as well as (2) an improvement in mood. Based on the frontal asymmetry model, an increase in the alpha-1 activation (p&lt;0.05) might be associated with approach-related emotions. In conclusion, there is reason to believe that physical exercise programmes, as commonly practiced by the elderly, have beneficial effects on their general feeling of well-being. We were able to demonstrate this in this pilot study by applying only a comparatively simple and economically viable method.
DNA polymerase gamma (POLG1) is coding for the catalytic subunit of the heterotrimeric mitochondrial DNA polymerase and involved in replication and repair of mitochondrial DNA. In addition to its 5' to 3' polymerase activity, POLG1 has a 3' to 5' exonuclease activity important in the repair process. Mitochondrial dysfunction has been implicated in neurodegenerative disorders like Parkinson's disease (PD). Dopamine neurons, which degenerate in PD, are believed to be particularly susceptible to mitochondrial dysfunction, which makes POLG1 a possible candidate gene for the disease. POLG1 has a polyglutamine tract (poly-Q) in the N-terminal, encoded by a CAG sequence in exon 2. Most commonly the poly-Q tract comprises 10 repeats (10Q, frequency &gt;80%) or moderately common 11Q (frequency 6-12%); however the composition of poly-Q alleles has been reported to vary from 6Q to 14Q. We analyzed this POLG1 trinucleotide repeat in a Swedish PD case-control material and detected variations from 5Q to 15Q. We report a significant association between the non-10/11Q repeats with PD (p=0.002). In silico analysis of poly-Q length effect on mRNA folding energy show a decrease in energy for &lt;10/11Q mRNA (4.6%) and an increase for &gt;10/11Q mRNA (4.8%) compared to 10/11Q mRNA. Our results strengthen the evidence for involvement of POLG1 and mitochondrial dysfunction in PD.
The specific adaptation of neuronal responses to a repeated stimulus (Stimulus-specific adaptation, SSA), which does not fully generalize to other stimuli, provides a mechanism for emphasizing rare and potentially interesting sensory events. Previous studies have demonstrated that neurons in the auditory cortex and inferior colliculus show SSA. However, the contribution of the medial geniculate body (MGB) and its main subdivisions to SSA and detection of rare sounds remains poorly characterized. We recorded from single neurons in the MGB of anaesthetized rats while presenting a sequence composed of a rare tone presented in the context of a common tone (oddball sequences). We demonstrate that a significant percentage of neurons in MGB adapt in a stimulus-specific manner. Neurons in the medial and dorsal subdivisions showed the strongest SSA, linking this property to the non-lemniscal pathway. Some neurons in the non-lemniscal regions showed strong SSA even under extreme testing conditions (e.g., a frequency interval of 0.14 octaves combined with a stimulus onset asynchrony of 2000 ms). Some of these neurons were able to discriminate between two very close frequencies (frequency interval of 0.057 octaves), revealing evidence of hyperacuity in neurons at a subcortical level. Thus, SSA is expressed strongly in the rat auditory thalamus and contribute significantly to auditory change detection.

The brain's visual cortex processes information concerning form, pattern, and motion within functional maps that reflect the layout of neuronal circuits. We analyzed functional maps of orientation preference in the ferret, tree shrew, and galago--three species separated since the basal radiation of placental mammals more than 65 million years ago--and found a common organizing principle. A symmetry-based class of models for the self-organization of cortical networks predicts all essential features of the layout of these neuronal circuits, but only if suppressive long-range interactions dominate development. We show mathematically that orientation-selective long-range connectivity can mediate the required interactions. Our results suggest that self-organization has canalized the evolution of the neuronal circuitry underlying orientation preference maps into a single common design.
Traumatic fear memories can be inhibited by behavioral therapy for humans, or by extinction training in rodent models, but are prone to recur. Under some conditions, however, these treatments generate a permanent effect on behavior, which suggests that emotional memory erasure has occurred. The neural basis for such disparate outcomes is unknown. We found that a central component of extinction-induced erasure is the synaptic removal of calcium-permeable -amino-3-hydroxyl-5-methyl-4-isoxazole-propionate receptors (AMPARs) in the lateral amygdala. A transient up-regulation of this form of plasticity, which involves phosphorylation of the glutamate receptor 1 subunit of the AMPA receptor, defines a temporal window in which fear memory can be degraded by behavioral experience. These results reveal a molecular mechanism for fear erasure and the relative instability of recent memory.
Injured optic nerves in the matured central nervous system (CNS), alike injured neurons in other CNS regions, fail to regenerate. Interestingly, activation of inflammatory cells (macrophages) following optic lens injury or implantation of peripheral nerve fragments into the vitreous body, have been previously reported to stimulate retinal ganglion cells (RGCs) to regenerate axons across the injury site and into the distal optic nerve. In addition, the beneficial role of macrophage cells has also been demonstrated in the regeneration of lesioned spinal neurons following sciatic nerve injury. However, it is not known whether these locally activated macrophage cells also contribute to the regeneration of remotely injured neurons within the CNS. Adult Sprague Dawley rats received a conditioning sciatic nerve injury followed by an optic nerve crush (ONC). Retrograde and anterograde tracing results revealed that injured optic axons did not regenerate after peripheral dorsal root ganglion (DRG) lesion, as the beneficial effects of this injury extended only locally. However, a greater inflammatory infiltration/activation was found in injury-combined animals compared to controls, although this was not sufficient to trigger a systemic regenerative response. Proximity of cell body response to injury, accompanied by a timely macrophage activation are critical factors for regeneration of injured CNS neurons to occur. Immune cell surveillance into the CNS compartment was enhanced following peripheral nerve injury. Scope: nervous system development, regeneration and aging.
Under certain experimental conditions, neurotrophic factors may reduce epileptogenesis. We have previously reported that local, intrahippocampal supplementation of fibroblast growth factor-2 (FGF-2) and brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) increases neurogenesis, reduces neuronal loss, and reduces the occurrence of spontaneous seizures in a model of damage-associated epilepsy. Here, we asked if these possibly anti-epileptogenic effects might involve anti-inflammatory mechanisms. Thus, we used a Herpes-based vector to supplement FGF-2 and BDNF in rat hippocampus after pilocarpine-induced status epilepticus that established an epileptogenic lesion. This model causes intense neuroinflammation, especially in the phase that precedes the occurrence of spontaneous seizures. The supplementation of FGF-2 and BDNF attenuated various parameters of inflammation, including astrocytosis, microcytosis and IL-1 expression. The effect appeared to be most prominent on IL-1, whose expression was almost completely prevented. Further studies will be needed to elucidate the molecular mechanism(s) for these effects, and for that on IL-1 in particular. Nonetheless, the concept that neurotrophic factors affect neuroinflammation in vivo may be highly relevant for the understanding of the epileptogenic process.
The primary purpose of this experiment is to demonstrate primary sensory neurons conveying information of joint movements and positions as proprioceptive information for an animal. An additional objective of this experiment is to learn anatomy of the preparation by staining, dissection and viewing of neurons and sensory structures under a dissecting microscope. This is performed by using basic neurophysiological equipment to record the electrical activity from a joint receptor organ and staining techniques. The muscle receptor organ (MRO) system in the crayfish is analogous to the intrafusal muscle spindle in mammals, which aids in serving as a comparative model that is more readily accessible for electrophysiological recordings. In addition, these are identifiable sensory neurons among preparations. The preparation is viable in a minimal saline for hours which is amenable for student laboratory exercises. The MRO is also susceptible to neuromodulation which encourages intriguing questions in the sites of modulatory action and integration of dynamic signals of movements and static position along with a gain that can be changed in the system.


Risky decision-making is altered in humans and animals with damage to the orbitofrontal cortex. However, the cellular function of the intact orbitofrontal cortex in processing information relevant for risky decisions is unknown. We recorded responses of single orbitofrontal neurons while monkeys viewed visual cues representing the key decision parameters, reward risk and value. Risk was defined as the mathematical variance of binary symmetric probability distributions of reward magnitudes; value was defined as non-risky reward magnitude. Monkeys displayed graded behavioral preferences for risky outcomes, as they did for value. A population of orbitofrontal neurons showed a distinctive risk signal: their cues and reward responses covaried monotonically with the variance of the different reward distributions without monotonically coding reward value. Furthermore, a small but statistically significant fraction of risk responses also coded reward value. These risk signals may provide physiological correlates for the role of the orbitofrontal cortex in risk processing.
Linking synaptic plasticity with behavioral learning requires understanding how synaptic efficacy influences postsynaptic firing in neurons whose role in behavior is understood. Here, we examine plasticity at a candidate site of motor learning: vestibular nerve synapses onto neurons that mediate reflexive movements. Pairing nerve activity with changes in postsynaptic voltage induced bidirectional synaptic plasticity in vestibular nucleus projection neurons: long-term potentiation relied on calcium-permeable AMPA receptors and postsynaptic hyperpolarization, whereas long-term depression relied on NMDA receptors and postsynaptic depolarization. Remarkably, both forms of plasticity uniformly scaled synaptic currents evoked by pulse trains, and these changes in synaptic efficacy were translated into linear increases or decreases in postsynaptic firing responses. Synapses onto local inhibitory neurons were also plastic but expressed only long-term depression. Bidirectional, linear gain control of vestibular nerve synapses onto projection neurons provides a plausible mechanism for motor learning underlying adaptation of vestibular reflexes.
The mammalian CNS contains a ubiquitous population of glial progenitors known as NG2+ cells that have the ability to develop into oligodendrocytes and undergo dramatic changes in response to injury and demyelination. Although it has been reported that NG2+ cells are multipotent, their fate in health and disease remains controversial. Here, we generated PDGFR-CreER transgenic mice and followed their fate in vivo in the developing and adult CNS. These studies revealed that NG2+ cells in the postnatal CNS generate myelinating oligodendrocytes, but not astrocytes or neurons. In regions of neurodegeneration in the spinal cord of ALS mice, NG2+ cells exhibited enhanced proliferation and accelerated differentiation into oligodendrocytes but remained committed to the oligodendrocyte lineage. These results indicate that NG2+ cells in the normal CNS are oligodendrocyte precursors with restricted lineage potential and that cell loss and gliosis are not sufficient to alter the lineage potential of these progenitors.
The kinesin, dynein, and myosin superfamily molecular motors have fundamental roles in neuronal function, plasticity, morphogenesis, and survival by transporting cargos such as synaptic vesicle precursors, neurotransmitter and neurotrophic factor receptors, and mRNAs within axons, dendrites, and synapses. Recent studies have begun to clarify the mechanisms of cargo selection and directional transport in subcellular compartments. Furthermore, molecular genetics has revealed unexpected roles for molecular motors in brain wiring, neuronal survival, neuronal plasticity, higher brain function, and control of central nervous system and peripheral nervous system development. Finally, it is also evident that molecular motors are critically involved in neuronal disease pathogenesis. Thus, molecular motor research is becoming an exciting frontier of neuroscience.
Mutations within the granulin (GRN) gene that encodes progranulin (PGRN) cause the neurodegenerative disease frontotemporal lobar degeneration with ubiquitin inclusions (FTLD-U). The receptor for PGRN in the CNS has not been previously identified. In this issue of Neuron, Hu and colleagues identify Sortilin (SORT1) as a key neuronal receptor for PGRN that facilitates its endocytosis and regulates PGRN levels invitro and invivo.
Lorcaserin (APD-356) is the first in a new class of selective serotonin 5-hydroxytryptamine(2C) (5-HT(2C)) receptor agonists. On December 22, 2009, the compound's developer (Arena Pharmaceuticals) submitted an NDA to the FDA for approval for weight management.
The inability of retinal ganglion cells (RGCs) to regenerate damaged axons through the optic nerve has dire consequences for victims of traumatic nerve injury and certain neurodegenerative diseases. Several strategies have been shown to induce appreciable regeneration in vivo, but the regrowth of axons through the entire optic nerve and on into the brain remains a major challenge. We show here that the induction of a controlled inflammatory response in the eye, when combined with elevation of intracellular cAMP and deletion of the gene encoding pten (phosphatase and tensin homolog), enables RGCs to regenerate axons the full length of the optic nerve in mature mice; approximately half of these axons cross the chiasm, and a rare subset (1%) manages to enter the thalamus. Consistent with our previous findings, the axon-promoting effects of inflammation were shown to require the macrophage-derived growth factor Oncomodulin (Ocm). Elevation of cAMP increased the ability of Ocm to bind to its receptors in the inner retina and augmented inflammation-induced regeneration twofold. Inflammation combined with elevated cAMP and PTEN deletion increased activation of the phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase and mitogen-activated protein kinase signaling pathways and augmented regeneration 10-fold over the level induced by either pten deletion or Zymosan alone. Thus, treatments that synergistically alter the intrinsic growth state of RGCs produce unprecedented levels of axon regeneration in the optic nerve, a CNS pathway long believed to be incapable of supporting such growth.
Recent studies show that glutamate and orexin (ORX, also known as hypocretin) inputs to the ventral tegmental area (VTA) dopamine (DA) cell region are essential for conditioned behavioral responses to reward-associated stimuli. In vitro experiments showed that ORX inputs to VTA potentiate responses of DA neurons to glutamate inputs, but it has remained unclear which glutamate inputs are modulated by ORX. The medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC) is a good candidate, given its role in processing complex stimulus-response information and its reciprocal connections with VTA DA neurons. Here we used in vivo recordings in anesthetized rats to investigate the responses of VTA DA neurons to mPFC stimulation, and how these responses are modulated by ORX. We demonstrate that mPFC stimulation evokes short- and long-latency excitation and inhibition in DA neurons. Maximal short-latency excitatory responses originated from stimulation sites in ventral prelimbic/infralimbic cortex, and were significantly more frequent during the active than during the rest period of the diurnal cycle. Application of ORX onto VTA DA neurons increased baseline activity and augmented or revealed excitatory responses to mPFC stimulation independent of changes in baseline activity, and without consistently affecting inhibitory responses. Moreover, orexin-1 receptor antagonism decreased tonic DA cell activity in active- but not rest-period animals, confirming a diurnal influence of ORX. These results indicate that ORX potently influences DA neuron activity, in part by modulating responses to mPFC inputs. By regulating prefrontal control of DA release, ORX projections to VTA may shape motivated behaviors in response to conditioned stimuli.
Age-related memory impairment (AMI) is a critical and debilitating phenotype of brain aging, but its underlying molecular mechanisms are largely unknown. In Drosophila, AMI is highly correlated with PKA activity in the mushroom bodies, neural centers essential for forming associative olfactory memories. Heterozygous mutations in DC0 (DC0/+), which encodes the major catalytic subunit of PKA (PKAc), significantly suppress AMI, while overexpression of a DC0 transgene (DC0(+)) impairs memory and occludes AMI. PKA activity does not increase upon aging, and it is not clear whether AMI is caused by continual PKA activity throughout aging or by an acute increase in PKA signaling at old ages. Likewise, it is not clear whether AMI can be ameliorated by acute interventions at old ages or whether continuous intervention throughout aging is necessary. We show here that an acute increase in PKA activity at old ages is sufficient to restore normal AMI in DC0/+ flies. Conversely, acute expression of a PKA inhibitory peptide at old ages is sufficient to reverse AMI in a wild-type background. These results indicate that AMI in Drosophila is caused by an age-dependent change in PKA-dependent signaling that can be reversed by acute interventions at old ages.
One of the defining features of episodic long-term memory is that it includes information about the temporal context in which an event occurred. Little is known about the regions that support the encoding of temporal information in the human brain, although previous work has suggested a role for the lateral prefrontal cortex (PFC) and medial temporal lobes (MTL). Here we used event-related fMRI to examine the relationship between activity at encoding and subsequent memory for temporal context. Participants were scanned while performing a serial order working memory task with pictures of common objects and were later tested for temporal memory at two different timescales. In the coarse temporal memory test, participants viewed one object from each trial and indicated approximately when during the course of the experiment it had appeared. In the fine temporal memory test, participants were shown the remaining objects from each trial and asked to recall the order in which they had been originally presented. Activity in the parahippocampal cortex predicted subsequent fine temporal accuracy, whereas coarse temporal accuracy was predicted by activity in several regions of the PFC, as well as in the hippocampus. Additional multivoxel pattern analyses revealed evidence implicating the rostrolateral PFC in the representation of time-varying contextual states in a manner similar to that proposed by computational theories of temporal context memory. These results highlight MTL and PFC contributions to temporal memory at the time of encoding and suggest a particular role for the rostrolateral PFC in encoding coarse temporal context.
Cue-directed axon guidance depends partly on local translation in growth cones. Many mRNA transcripts are known to reside in developing axons, yet little is known about their subcellular distribution or, specifically, which transcripts are in growth cones. Here laser capture microdissection (LCM) was used to isolate the growth cones of retinal ganglion cell (RGC) axons of two vertebrate species, mouse and Xenopus, coupled with unbiased genomewide microarray profiling. An unexpectedly large pool of mRNAs defined predominant pathways in protein synthesis, oxidative phosphorylation, cancer, neurological disease, and signaling. Comparative profiling of &quot;young&quot; (pathfinding) versus &quot;old&quot; (target-arriving) Xenopus growth cones revealed that the number and complexity of transcripts increases dramatically with age. Many presynaptic protein mRNAs are present exclusively in old growth cones, suggesting that functionally related sets of mRNAs are targeted to growth cones in a developmentally regulated way. Remarkably, a subset of mRNAs was significantly enriched in the growth cone compared with the axon compartment, indicating that mechanisms exist to localize mRNAs selectively to the growth cone. Furthermore, some receptor transcripts (e.g., EphB4), present exclusively in old growth cones, were equally abundant in young and old cell bodies, indicating that RNA trafficking from the soma is developmentally regulated. Our findings show that the mRNA repertoire in growth cones is regulated dynamically with age and suggest that mRNA localization is tailored to match the functional demands of the growing axon tip as it transforms into the presynaptic terminal.
The development of drug-seeking habits is implicated in the transition from recreational drug use to addiction. Using a drug seeking/taking chained schedule of intravenous cocaine self-administration and reward devaluation methods in rats, the present studies examined whether drug seeking that is initially goal-directed becomes habitual after prolonged drug seeking and taking. Devaluation of the outcome of the drug seeking link (i.e., the drug taking link of the chained schedule) by extinction significantly decreased drug seeking indicating that behavior is goal-directed rather than habitual. With, however, more prolonged drug experience, animals transitioned to habitual cocaine seeking. Thus, in these animals, cocaine seeking was insensitive to outcome devaluation. Moreover, when the dorsolateral striatum, an area implicated in habit learning, was transiently inactivated, outcome devaluation was effective in decreasing drug seeking indicating that responding was no longer habitual but had reverted to control by the goal-directed system. These studies provide direct evidence that cocaine seeking becomes habitual with prolonged drug experience and describe a rodent model with which to study the neural mechanisms underlying the transition from goal-directed to habitual drug seeking.
Neuroimaging studies reliably reveal ventrolateral prefrontal cortex (VLPFC) activation for processing of abstract relative to concrete words, but the cause of this effect is unclear. Here, in a convergent neuropsychological and repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation (rTMS) investigation, we tested the hypothesis that abstract words require VLPFC because they depend heavily on the semantic-executive control processes mediated by this region. Specifically, we hypothesized that accessing the meanings of abstract words require more executive regulation because they have variable, context-dependent meanings. In the neuropsychology component of the study, aphasic patients with multimodal semantic deficits following VLPFC lesions had impaired comprehension of abstract words, but this deficit was ameliorated by providing a sentence cue that placed the word in a specific context. Concrete words were better comprehended and showed more limited benefit from the cues. In the second part of the study, rTMS applied to left VLPFC in healthy subjects slowed reaction times to abstract but not concrete words, but only when words were presented out of context. TMS had no effect when words were preceded by a contextual cue. These converging results indicate that VLPFC plays an executive regulation role in the processing of abstract words. This role is less critical when words are presented with a context that guides the system toward a particular meaning or interpretation. Regulation is less important for concrete words because their meanings are constrained by their physical referents and do not tend to vary with context.
Commissural spinal axons extend away from the roof plate (RP) in response to a chemorepellent mediated by the bone morphogenetic proteins (BMPs). Previous studies have focused on the ability of commissural axons to translate a spatial gradient of BMPs into directional information in vitro. However, a notable feature of this system in vivo is that the gradient of BMPs is thought to act from behind the commissural cell bodies, making it possible for the BMPs to have a continued effect on commissural axons as they grow away from the RP. Here, we demonstrate that BMPs activate the cofilin regulator Lim domain kinase 1 (Limk1) to control the rate of commissural axon extension in the dorsal spinal cord. By modulating Limk1 activity in both rodent and chicken commissural neurons, the rate of axon growth can either be stalled or accelerated. Altering the activation state of Limk1 also influences subsequent guidance decisions: accelerated axons make rostrocaudal projection errors while navigating their intermediate target, the floor plate. These results suggest that guidance cues can specify information about the rate of growth, to ensure that axons reach subsequent signals either at particular times or speeds during development.
The low-threshold transient calcium current (I(T)) plays a critical role in modulating the firing behavior of thalamic neurons; however, the role of I(T) in the integration of afferent information within the thalamus is virtually unknown. We have used two-photon laser scanning microscopy coupled with whole-cell recordings to examine calcium dynamics in the neurons of the strategically located thalamic reticular nucleus (TRN). We now report that a single somatic burst discharge evokes large-magnitude calcium responses, via I(T), in distal TRN dendrites. The magnitude of the burst-evoked calcium response was larger than those observed in thalamocortical projection neurons under the same conditions. We also demonstrate that direct stimulation of distal TRN dendrites, via focal glutamate application and synaptic activation, can locally activate distal I(T), producing a large distal calcium response independent of the soma/proximal dendrites. These findings strongly suggest that distally located I(T) may function to amplify afferent inputs. Boosting the magnitude ensures integration at the somatic level by compensating for attenuation that would normally occur attributable to passive cable properties. Considering the functional architecture of the TRN, elongated nature of their dendrites, and robust dendritic signaling, these distal dendrites could serve as sites of intense intra-modal/cross-modal integration and/or top-down modulation, leading to focused thalamocortical communication.
Alzheimer's disease (AD) is characterized by the deposition of -amyloid (A)-containing plaques within the brain that is accompanied by a robust microglial-mediated inflammatory response. This inflammatory response is reliant upon engagement of innate immune signaling pathways involving the toll-like receptors (TLRs). Studies assessing the roles of TLRs in AD pathogenesis have yielded conflicting results. We have assessed the roles of the TLRs through genetic inactivation of the TLR2/4 coreceptor, CD14, in a transgenic murine model of AD. Transgenic mice lacking CD14 exhibited reduced insoluble, but not soluble, levels of A at 7 months of age. This corresponded with decreased plaque burden resulting from a reduction in number and size of both diffuse and thioflavin S-positive plaques and an overall reduction in the number of microglia. These findings are inconsistent with the established actions of these receptors. Moreover, loss of CD14 expression was associated with increased expression of genes encoding the proinflammatory cytokines Tnf and Ifn, decreased levels of the microglial/macrophage alternative activation markers Fizz1 and Ym1, and increased expression of the anti-inflammatory gene Il-10. Thus, the loss of CD14 resulted in a significant change in the inflammatory environment of the brain, likely reflecting a more heterogeneous population of microglia within the brains of the animals. The reduction in plaque burden was not a result of changes in the expression of various A degrading enzymes or proteins associated with A clearance. These data suggest that CD14 is a critical regulator of the microglial inflammatory response that acts to modulate A deposition.
We earlier reported that Zn+ chelation improved recovery of synaptic potentials after transient oxygen and glucose deprivation in brain slices. Such an effect could be because of reduced accumulation of Zn+ in postsynaptic neurons, or could also be due to prevention of the onset of spreading depression-like events. A combination of optical and electrical recording was used here to show that Zn+ chelation is effective because it delays spreading depression-like events. If the duration of oxygen/glucose deprivation was sufficient to generate a spreading depression-like event, irrecoverable Ca+-dependent loss of synaptic potentials occurred, regardless of Zn+ availability. These results identify a key mechanism underlying protective effects of Zn+ chelation, and emphasize the importance of evaluating spreading depression-like events in studies of neuroprotection.
Sensory analysis studies are critical in the development of quality enhanced crops, and may be an important component in the public acceptance of genetically modified foods. It has recently been established that odor preferences are shared between humans and mice, suggesting that odor exploration behavior in mice may be used to predict the effect of odors in humans. We have previously found that mice fed diets supplemented with engineered nonbrowning potatoes (-PPO) consumed more potato than mice fed diets supplemented with wild-type potatoes (WT). This prompted us to explore a possible role of potato odor in mice preference for nonbrowning potatoes. Taking advantage of two well established neuroscience paradigms, the &quot;open field test&quot; and the &quot;nose-poking preference test&quot;, we performed experiments where mice exploration behavior was monitored in preference assays on the basis of olfaction alone. No obvious preference was observed towards -PPO or WT lines when fresh potato samples were tested. However, when oxidized samples were tested, mice consistently investigated -PPO potatoes more times and for longer periods than WT potatoes. Congruently, humans discriminated WT from -PPO samples with a considerably better performance when oxidized samples were tested than when fresh samples were tested in blind olfactory experiments. Notably, even though participants ranked all samples with an intermediate level of pleasantness, there was a general consensus that the -PPO samples had a more intense odor and also evoked the sense-impression of a familiar vegetable more often than the WT samples. Taken together, these findings suggest that our previous observations might be influenced, at least in part, by differential odors that are accentuated among the lines once oxidative deterioration takes place. Additionally, our results suggest that nonbrowning potatoes, in addition to their extended shelf life, maintain their odor quality for longer periods of time than WT potatoes. To our knowledge this is the first report on the use of an animal model applied to the sensory analysis of a transgenic crop.
One of the most important goals in neuroscience is to understand the molecular cues that instruct early stages of synapse formation. As such it has become imperative to develop objective approaches to quantify changes in synaptic connectivity. Starting from sample fixation, this protocol details how to quantify synapse number both in dissociated neuronal culture and in brain sections using immunocytochemistry. Using compartment-specific antibodies, we label presynaptic terminals as well as sites of postsynaptic specialization. We define synapses as points of colocalization between the signals generated by these markers. The number of these colocalizations is quantified using a plug in Puncta Analyzer (written by Bary Wark, available upon request, c.eroglu@cellbio.duke.edu) under the ImageJ analysis software platform. The synapse assay described in this protocol can be applied to any neural tissue or culture preparation for which you have selective pre- and postsynaptic markers. This synapse assay is a valuable tool that can be widely utilized in the study of synaptic development.

Dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB) and Parkinson's Disease (PD) are neurodegenerative disorders of the aging population characterized by the abnormal accumulation of alpha-synuclein (alpha-syn). Previous studies have suggested that excitotoxicity may contribute to neurodegeneration in these disorders, however the underlying mechanisms and their relationship to alpha-syn remain unclear. For this study we proposed that accumulation of alpha-syn might result in alterations in metabotropic glutamate receptors (mGluR), particularly mGluR5 which has been linked to deficits in murine models of PD. In this context, levels of mGluR5 were analyzed in the brains of PD and DLB human cases and alpha-syn transgenic (tg) mice and compared to age-matched, unimpaired controls, we report a 40% increase in the levels of mGluR5 and beta-arrestin immunoreactivity in the frontal cortex, hippocampus and putamen in DLB cases and in the putamen in PD cases. In the hippocampus, mGluR5 was more abundant in the CA3 region and co-localized with alpha-syn aggregates. Similarly, in the hippocampus and basal ganglia of alpha-syn tg mice, levels of mGluR5 were increased and mGluR5 and alpha-syn were co-localized and co-immunoprecipitated, suggesting that alpha-syn interferes with mGluR5 trafficking. The increased levels of mGluR5 were accompanied by a concomitant increase in the activation of downstream signaling components including ERK, Elk-1 and CREB. Consistent with the increased accumulation of alpha-syn and alterations in mGluR5 in cognitive- and motor-associated brain regions, these mice displayed impaired performance in the water maze and pole test, these behavioral alterations were reversed with the mGluR5 antagonist, MPEP. Taken together the results from study suggest that mGluR5 may directly interact with alpha-syn resulting in its over activation and that this over activation may contribute to excitotoxic cell death in select neuronal regions. These results highlight the therapeutic importance of mGluR5 antagonists in alpha-synucleinopathies.

Even within the early sensory areas, the majority of the input to any given cortical neuron comes from other cortical neurons. To extend our knowledge of the contextual information that is transmitted by such lateral and feedback connections, we investigated how visually nonstimulated regions in primary visual cortex (V1) and visual area V2 are influenced by the surrounding context. We used functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) and pattern-classification methods to show that the cortical representation of a nonstimulated quarter-field carries information that can discriminate the surrounding visual context. We show further that the activity patterns in these regions are significantly related to those observed with feed-forward stimulation and that these effects are driven primarily by V1. These results thus demonstrate that visual context strongly influences early visual areas even in the absence of differential feed-forward thalamic stimulation.
The management and manipulation of our own social image in the minds of others requires difficult and poorly understood computations. One computation useful in social image management is strategic deception: our ability and willingness to manipulate other people's beliefs about ourselves for gain. We used an interpersonal bargaining game to probe the capacity of players to manage their partner's beliefs about them. This probe parsed the group of subjects into three behavioral types according to their revealed level of strategic deception; these types were also distinguished by neural data measured during the game. The most deceptive subjects emitted behavioral signals that mimicked a more benign behavioral type, and their brains showed differential activation in right dorsolateral prefrontal cortex and left Brodmann area 10 at the time of this deception. In addition, strategic types showed a significant correlation between activation in the right temporoparietal junction and expected payoff that was absent in the other groups. The neurobehavioral types identified by the game raise the possibility of identifying quantitative biomarkers for the capacity to manipulate and maintain a social image in another person's mind.
Human beings are remarkably skilled at recognizing faces, with the marked exception of other-race faces: the so-called &quot;other-race effect.&quot; As reported nearly a century ago [Feingold CA (1914) Journal of Criminal Law and Police Science 5:39-51], this face-recognition impairment is accompanied by the popular belief that other-race faces all look alike. However, the neural mechanisms underlying this high-level &quot;perceptual illusion&quot; are still unknown. To address this question, we recorded high-resolution electrophysiological scalp signals from East Asian (EA) and Western Caucasian (WC) observers as they viewed two EA or WC faces. The first adaptor face was followed by a target face of either the same or different identity. We quantified repetition suppression (RS), a reduction in neural activity in stimulus-sensitive regions following stimulus repetition. Conventional electrophysiological analyses on target faces failed to reveal any RS effect. However, to fully account for the paired nature of RS events, we subtracted the signal elicited by target to adaptor faces for each single trial and performed unbiased spatiotemporal data-driven analyses. This unique approach revealed stronger RS to same-race faces of same identity in both groups of observers on the face-sensitive N170 component. Such neurophysiological modulation in RS suggests efficient identity coding for same-race faces. Strikingly, OR faces elicited identical RS regardless of identity, all looking alike to the neural population underlying the N170. Our data show that sensitivity to race begins early at the perceptual level, providing, after nearly 100 y of investigations, a neurophysiological correlate of the &quot;all look alike&quot; perceptual experience.
At present, there are few means to track symptomatic stages of CNS aging. Thus, although metabolic changes are implicated in mtDNA mutation-driven aging, the manifestations remain unclear. Here, we used normally aging and prematurely aging mtDNA mutator mice to establish a molecular link between mitochondrial dysfunction and abnormal metabolism in the aging process. Using proton magnetic resonance spectroscopy and HPLC, we found that brain lactate levels were increased twofold in both normally and prematurely aging mice during aging. To correlate the striking increase in lactate with tissue pathology, we investigated the respiratory chain enzymes and detected mitochondrial failure in key brain areas from both normally and prematurely aging mice. We used in situ hybridization to show that increased brain lactate levels were caused by a shift in transcriptional activities of the lactate dehydrogenases to promote pyruvate to lactate conversion. Separation of the five tetrameric lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) isoenzymes revealed an increase of those dominated by the Ldh-A product and a decrease of those rich in the Ldh-B product, which, in turn, increases pyruvate to lactate conversion. Spectrophotometric assays measuring LDH activity from the pyruvate and lactate sides of the reaction showed a higher pyruvate  lactate activity in the brain. We argue for the use of lactate proton magnetic resonance spectroscopy as a noninvasive strategy for monitoring this hallmark of the aging process. The mtDNA mutator mouse allows us to conclude that the increased LDH-A/LDH-B ratio causes high brain lactate levels, which, in turn, are predictive of aging phenotypes.

Stromal interaction molecule 1 (STIM1) stimulates calcium ion (Ca(2+)) entry through plasma membrane Orai1 channels in response to decreased Ca(2+) concentrations in the endoplasmic reticulum lumen. We identified an acidic motif within the STIM1 coiled-coil region that keeps its Ca(2+) activation domain [Ca(2+) release-activated Ca(2+) (CRAC) activation domain/STIM1-Orai activating region (CAD/SOAR)]-a cytoplasmic region required for its activation of Orai1-inactive. The sequence of the STIM1 acidic motif shows substantial similarity to that of the carboxyl-terminal coiled-coil segment of Orai1, which is the postulated site of interaction with STIM1. Mutations within this acidic region rendered STIM1 constitutively active, whereas mutations within a short basic segment of CAD/SOAR prevented Orai1 activation. We propose that the CAD/SOAR domain is released from an intramolecular clamp during STIM1 activation, allowing the basic segment to activate Orai1 channels. This evolutionarily conserved mechanism of STIM1 activation resembles the regulation of protein kinases by intramolecular silencing through pseudosubstrate binding.
Mutations in superoxide dismutase 1 (SOD1) cause some forms of familial amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (fALS). Affected tissues of patients and transgenic mouse models of the disease accumulate misfolded and aggregated forms of the mutant protein. In the present study we have identified specific sequences in human SOD1 that modulate the aggregation of fALS mutant proteins. From our study of a panel of mutant proteins, we identify two sequence elements in human SOD1 (residues 42-50 and 109-123) that are critical in modulating the aggregation of the protein. These sequences are components of the 4th and 7th -strands of the protein, and in the native structure are normally juxtaposed as elements of the core -barrel. Our data suggest that some type of intermolecular interaction between these elements may occur in promoting mutant SOD1 aggregation.


An uncaging process refers to a fast and efficient release of a biomolecule after photochemical excitation from a photoactivatable precursor. Two-photon excitation produces excited states identical to standard UV excitation while overcoming major limitations when dealing with biological materials, like spatial resolution, tissue penetration and toxicity and has therefore been applied to the uncaging of different biological effectors. A literature survey of two-photon uncaging of biomolecules is described in this article, including applications in cellular- and neurobiology.
A backup molecule to compound 2 was sought by targeting the most likely metabolically vulnerable site in this molecule. Compound 18 was subsequently identified as a potent P2X(7) antagonist with very low in vivo clearance and high oral bioavailability in all species examined. Some evidence to support the role of P2X(7) in the etiology of pain is also presented.
A new class of selective orexin 2 antagonist was identified among commercial products. Initial SAR was obtained using commercial derivatives only prior to starting ad hoc medicinal chemistry activities.

Whole-brain irradiation (WBI) therapy produces progressive learning and memory deficits in patients with primary or secondary brain tumors. Exercise enhances memory and adult hippocampal neurogenesis in the intact brain, so we hypothesized that exercise may be an effective treatment to alleviate consequences of WBI. Previous studies using animal models to address this issue have yielded mixed results and have not examined potential molecular mechanisms. We investigated the short- and long-term effects of WBI on spatial learning and memory retention and determined whether voluntary running after WBI aids recovery of brain and cognitive function. Forty adult female C57Bl/6 mice given a single dose of 5 Gy or sham WBI were trained 2.5 weeks and up to 4 months after WBI in a Barnes maze. Half of the mice received daily voluntary wheel access starting 1 month after sham or WBI. Daily running following WBI prevented the marked decline in spatial memory retention observed months after irradiation. Bromodeoxyuridine (BrdUrd) immunolabeling and enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay indicated that this behavioral rescue was accompanied by a partial restoration of newborn BrdUrd+/NeuN+ neurons in the dentate gyrus and increased hippocampal expression of brain-derived vascular endothelial growth factor and insulin-like growth factor-1, and occurred despite irradiation-induced elevations in hippocampal proinflammatory cytokines. WBI in adult mice produced a progressive memory decline consistent with what has been reported in cancer patients receiving WBI therapy. Our findings show that running can abrogate this memory decline and aid recovery of adult hippocampal plasticity, thus highlighting exercise as a potential therapeutic intervention.
SH-SY5Y neuroblastoma cells were examined to determine changes in protein expression following exposure to the organophosphate paraoxon (O,O-diethyl-p-nitrophenoxy phosphate). Exposure of SH-SY5Y cells to paraoxon (20 M) for 48 h showed no significant change in cell viability as established using an MTT assay. Protein expression changes from the paraoxon-treated SH-SY5Y cells were determined using a comparative, subproteome approach by fractionation into cytosolic, membrane, nuclear, and cytoskeletal fractions. The fractionated proteins were separated by 2D-PAGE, identified by MALDI-TOF mass spectrometry, and expression changes determined by densitometry. Over 400 proteins were separated from the four fractions, and 16 proteins were identified with altered expression 1.3-fold including heat shock protein 90 (-1.3-fold), heterogeneous nuclear ribonucleoprotein C (+2.8-fold), and H(+) transporting ATP synthase beta chain (-3.1-fold). Western blot analysis conducted on total protein isolates confirmed the expression changes in these three proteins.
With the aim of discovering new molecular interactions of the tight junction protein ZO-2, a two-hybrid screen was performed on a human kidney cDNA library using as bait the middle segment of ZO-2. Through this assay we identified a 24-kDa novel protein herein named ZASP for ZO-2 associated speckle protein. ZO-2/ZASP interaction further confirmed by pull down and immunoprecipitation experiments, requires the presence of the intact PDZ binding motif SQV of ZASP and the third PDZ domain of ZO-2. ZASP mRNA and protein are present in the kidney and in several epithelial cell lines. Endogenous ZASP is expressed primarily in nuclear speckles in co-localization with splicing factor SC-35. Nocodazole treatment and wash out reveals that ZASP disappears from the nucleus during mitosis in accordance with speckle disassembly during metaphase. ZASP amino acid sequence exhibits a canonical nuclear exportation signal and in agreement the protein exits the nucleus through a process mediated by exportin/CRM1. ZASP over-expression blocks the inhibitory activity of ZO-2 on cyclin D1 gene transcription and protein expression. The identification of ZASP helps to unfold the complex nuclear molecular arrays that form on ZO-2 scaffolds.
We recently demonstrated that interleukin-1 (IL-1) increases system x(c)(-) (cystine/glutamate antiporter) activity in mixed cortical cell cultures, resulting in an increase in hypoxic neuronal injury when glutamate clearance is impaired. Herein, we demonstrate that neurons, astrocytes, and microglia all express system x(c)(-) subunits (xCT, 4F2hc, RBAT) and are capable of cystine import. However, IL-1 stimulation increases mRNA for xCT--the light chain that confers substrate specificity--in astrocytes only; an effect blocked by the transcriptional inhibitor actinomycin D. Additionally, only astrocytes show an increase in cystine uptake following IL-1 exposure; an effect associated with a change in xCT protein. The increase in cystine uptake that follows IL-1 is lacking in astrocytes derived from mice harboring a mutation in Slc7a11 (sut gene), which encodes for xCT, and in wild-type astrocytes treated with the protein synthesis inhibitor cycloheximide. IL-1 does not regulate the light chain of the amino acid transporter, LAT2, or the expression and function of astrocytic excitatory amino acid transporters (EAATs), demonstrating some target selectivity. Finally, the enhanced neuronal vulnerability to hypoxia that followed IL-1 treatment in our mixed culture system was not observed in chimeric cultures consisting of wild-type neurons plated on top of sut astrocytes. Nor was it observed in wild-type cultures treated with a system x(c)(-) inhibitor or an NMDA receptor antagonist. Overall, our data demonstrate that IL-1 selectively regulates system x(c)(-) activity in astrocytes and that this change is specifically responsible for the deleterious, excitotoxic effects of IL-1 found under hypoxic conditions.
Experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE) is a T cell-mediated neuroinflammatory disease that is often used as a model of multiple sclerosis. EAE can follow either relapsing-remitting (RR) or chronic (CH) courses, yet the factors responsible for differentially inducing these forms of disease remain largely unknown. Proinflammatory cytokines play an important role in EAE, and signaling by these cytokines can be negatively regulated by the suppressor of cytokine signaling 1 protein (SOCS1). We assessed if differential expression of SOCS1 could contribute to the clinical course of RR and CH forms of EAE induced in the same mouse strain (C57BL/6) using the same myelin antigen (myelin oligodendrocyte glycoprotein). We show that SOCS1 mRNA levels are significantly elevated in the spinal cord in early stages of both RR- and CH-EAE. SOCS1 protein is highly expressed in immune cells in EAE lesions in the spinal cord, with expression predominantly localized within macrophages. Importantly, the number of Mac-1(+) macrophages expressing SOCS1 at the peak stage of RR disease is three-fold greater than in CH-EAE. Furthermore, the macrophage effector molecule iNOS, whose expression is regulated by SOCS1, is significantly reduced at the peak of RR- versus CH-EAE. Finally, the administration of a SOCS1-mimetic peptide reduces disease severity in the CH-EAE model. Thus, the differential expression of SOCS1 may contribute to the development of RR and CH forms of EAE.
Vulnerability of motoneurons in amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) arises from a combination of several mechanisms, including protein misfolding and aggregation, mitochondrial dysfunction and oxidative damage. Protein aggregates are found in motoneurons in models for ALS linked to a mutation in the gene coding for Cu,Zn superoxide dismutase (SOD1) and in ALS patients as well. Aggregation of mutant SOD1 in the cytoplasm and/or into mitochondria has been repeatedly proposed as a main culprit for the degeneration of motoneurons. It is, however, still debated whether SOD1 aggregates represent a cause, a correlate or a consequence of processes leading to cell death. We have exploited the ability of glutaredoxins (Grxs) to reduce mixed disulfides to protein thiols either in the cytoplasm and in the IMS (Grx1) or in the mitochondrial matrix (Grx2) as a tool for restoring a correct redox environment and preventing the aggregation of mutant SOD1. Here we show that the overexpression of Grx1 increases the solubility of mutant SOD1 in the cytosol but does not inhibit mitochondrial damage and apoptosis induced by mutant SOD1 in neuronal cells (SH-SY5Y) or in immortalized motoneurons (NSC-34). Conversely, the overexpression of Grx2 increases the solubility of mutant SOD1 in mitochondria, interferes with mitochondrial fragmentation by modifying the expression pattern of proteins involved in mitochondrial dynamics, preserves mitochondrial function and strongly protects neuronal cells from apoptosis. The toxicity of mutant SOD1, therefore, mostly arises from mitochondrial dysfunction and rescue of mitochondrial damage may represent a promising therapeutic strategy.
Cis-regulatory variation is considered to be an important determinant of human phenotypic variability, including susceptibility to complex disease. Recent studies have shown that the effects of cis-regulatory polymorphism on gene expression can differ widely between tissues. In the present study, we tested whether the effects of cis-regulatory variation can also differ between regions of the adult human brain. We used relative allelic expression to measure cis-effects on the RNA expression of five candidate genes for neuropsychiatric illness (ZNF804A, NOS1, RGS4, AKT1 and TCF4) across multiple discrete brain regions within individual subjects. For all five genes, we observed significant differences in allelic expression between brain regions in several individual subjects, suggesting regional differences in the effects of cis-regulatory polymorphism to be a common phenomenon. As well as highlighting an important caveat for studies of regulatory polymorphism in the brain, our findings indicate that it is possible to delineate brain areas in which cis-regulatory variants are active. This may provide important insights into the fundamental biology of neuropsychiatric phenotypes with which such variants are associated.
Mutations in LMNA, which encodes A-type nuclear lamins, cause various human diseases, including myopathy, cardiomyopathy, lipodystrophy and progeria syndrome. To date, little is known about how mutations in a single gene cause a wide variety of diseases. Here, by characterizing an antibody that specifically recognizes the phosphorylation of Ser458 of A-type lamins, we uncover findings that might contribute to our understanding of laminopathies. This antibody only reacts with nuclei in muscle biopsies from myopathy patients with mutations in the Ig-fold motif of A-type lamins. Ser458 phosphorylation is not seen in muscles from control patients or patients with any other neuromuscular diseases. In vitro analysis confirmed that only lamin A mutants associated with myopathy induce phosphorylation of Ser458, whereas lipodystrophy- or progeria-associated mutants do not. We also found that Akt1 directly phosphorylates Ser458 of lamin A with myopathy-related mutations in vitro. These results suggest that Ser458 phosphorylation of A-type lamins correlates with striated muscle laminopathies; this might be useful for the early diagnosis of LMNA-associated myopathies. We propose that disease-specific phosphorylation of A-type lamins by Akt1 contributes to myopathy caused by LMNA mutations.
The patterns of axonal collateralization of nucleus accumbens (Acb) projection neurons were investigated in the rat by means of single-axon tracing techniques using the anterograde tracer biotinylated dextran amine. Seventy-three axons were fully traced, originating from either the core (AcbC) or shell (AcbSh) compartment, as assessed by differential calbindin D28k-immunoreactivity. Axons from AcbC and AcbSh showed a substantial segregation in their targets; target areas were either exclusively or preferentially innervated from AcbC or AcbSh. Axon collaterals in the subthalamic nucleus were found at higher than expected frequencies; moreover, these originated exclusively in the dorsal AcbC. Intercompartmental collaterals were observed from ventral AcbC axons into AcbSh, and likewise, interconnections at pallidal and mesencephalic levels were also observed, although mostly from AcbC axons toward AcbSh targets, possibly supporting crosstalk between the two subcircuits at several levels. Cell somata giving rise to short-range accumbal axons, projecting to the ventral pallidum (VP), were spatially intermingled with others, giving rise to long-range axons that innervated VP and more caudal targets. This anatomical organization parallels that of the dorsal striatum and provides the basis for possible dual direct and indirect actions from a single axon on either individual or small sets of neurons.
The hypothalamus regulates numerous autonomic responses and behaviors. The neuroactive substances corticotropin-releasing factor (CRF), arginine-vasopressin (AVP), histidine decarboxylase (HDC), melanin-concentrating hormone (MCH), and orexin/hypocretins (ORX) produced in the hypothalamus mediate a subset of these processes. Although the expression patterns of these genes have been well studied in rodents, less is known about them in humans. We combined classical histological techniques with in situ hybridization histochemistry to produce both 2D and 3D images and to visually align and quantify expression of the genes for these substances in nuclei of the human hypothalamus. The hypothalamus was arbitrarily divided into rostral, intermediate, and caudal regions. The rostral region, containing the paraventricular nucleus (PVN), was defined by discrete localization of CRF- and AVP-expressing neurons, whereas distinct relationships between HDC, MCH, and ORX mRNA-expressing neurons delineated specific levels within the intermediate and caudal regions. Quantitative mRNA signal intensity measurements revealed no significant differences in overall CRF or AVP expression at any rostrocaudal level of the PVN. HDC mRNA expression was highest at the level of the premammillary area, which included the dorsomedial and tuberomammillary nuclei as well as the dorsolateral hypothalamic area. In addition, the overall intensity of hybridization signal exhibited by both MCH and ORX mRNA-expressing neurons peaked in distinct intermediate and caudal hypothalamic regions. These results suggest that human hypothalamic neurons involved in the regulation of the HPA axis display distinct neurochemical patterns that may encompass multiple local nuclei.
The calyx of Held synapse is a giant axosomatic synapse that acts as a fast relay in the sound localization circuit of the brainstem. In rodents it forms within a relatively brief period starting around the second postnatal day (P2). The relative timing of the formation of its pre- and the postsynaptic compartment are not yet known. By means of fluorescent immunohistochemistry in neonatal rats we therefore compared the developmental expression patterns of the vesicular glutamate transporter (VGLUT)-1 and the postsynaptic density scaffolding proteins Homer-1 and PSD-95 in the medial nucleus of the trapezoid body (MNTB). Before its formation, colocalized punctate staining of VGLUT-1 and Homer-1 or PSD-95 was observed on principal neurons, in agreement with earlier work showing that they are already innervated by fibers from the cochlear nucleus before the calyx forms. The expression of VGLUT-1 clusters within the nascent calyx of Held synapse preceded the expression of Homer-1 and PSD-95 clusters, as indicated by the presence of principal neurons with only a large contiguous cluster (LCC) of VGLUT-1 at P2-3, whereas no neurons with only an LCC for Homer-1 or PSD-95 were seen. At P3 the first principal neurons with both a pre- and a postsynaptic LCC were observed, and at P12 all principal neurons had both a pre- and a postsynaptic LCC. The relatively late appearance of Homer-1 and PSD-95 within the developing calyx of Held synapse suggests that they play a role in its stabilization and the recruitment of additional receptors to its postsynaptic density.
The subgenual chordotonal organ complex in insects is modified in ensiferan taxa like Gryllidae and Tettigoniidae into hearing organs with specific sets of auditory receptors. Here, this sensory organ complex is documented in the nonhearing splay-footed cricket Comicus calcaris. The tibial chordotonal organ consists of three parts: the subgenual organ, the intermediate organ, and the crista acustica homolog. The latter is an array of linearly organized neurons homologous to auditory receptors in the tibial hearing organs of Tettigoniidae. The tibial organ is structurally similar in all three leg pairs, with similar neuron numbers in the fore- and midleg, but lower numbers in the hindleg. The foreleg crista acustica homolog consists of 344 neurons, the highest number in an atympanate Ensiferan. Additionally, an accessory chordotonal organ with 155 neurons innervated by nerve 5B1 is present in the foreleg. The central projection of the tibial organreveals ipsilateral sensory terminals in the primary sensory neuropil, the medial ventral association center with terminations close to the midline. As determined from extracellular recordings, the entire tibial organ is vibrosensitive. The organization of the tibial organ is compared to other ensiferan auditory and nonauditory tibial organs. Spatial orientation of neurons in the crista acustica homolog is not reminiscent of auditory structures, and the neuroanatomy is discussed with respect to stridulation behavior and the evolutionary origin of hearing in Ensifera.
Central oxytocin (OT) modulates many social behaviors, including female rat sexual receptivity, quantified as the copulatory stance known as lordosis. The expression of the lordosis response is modulated by OT action in the ventromedial nucleus of the hypothalamus (VMH), as demonstrated by behavioral pharmacology experiments. However, the subcellular localization of OT in this brain region has been unclear. We tested the hypothesis that ovarian hormones reorganize OT-labeled pre- or postsynaptic elements in the fiber complex lateral to the VMH by using immunoelectron microscopy. OT immunolabeling occurred in axonal boutons identified by the presence of small, clear synaptic vesicles and double labeling with the presynaptic markers synaptophysin and vesicular glutamate transporter 2. OT immunoreactivity also was observed in dendritic profiles, verified with double labeling for the dendrite-specific marker microtubule-associated protein 2. Ovarian hormones did not alter the density of axonal boutons; however, estradiol treatment reduced the density of dendritic profiles by 34%. This effect was reversed when progesterone was given subsequent to estradiol. The effect of estradiol treatment was specific to dendrites that lacked OT immunostaining; the density of OT-labeled dendritic profiles remained constant during estradiol treatment. With the estradiol-induced exit of non-OT-labeled dendritic profiles, the remaining OT-labeled dendritic profiles experienced an increase in their number of synaptic contacts. Thus, hormone treatments that mimic the 4-day rat estrous cycle provoke a chemically coded reorganization of dendrite innervation in the fiber plexus lateral to the VMH that may underlie the hormone-specific effect of OT on reproductive behavior.
Bone morphogenetic protein-2 (BMP2) is a member of the transforming growth factor- (TGF-) superfamily and plays important roles in multiple biological events. Although BMP2 expression has been well described in the early development of the central nervous system (CNS), little information is available on its expression in the adult CNS. We thus investigated BMP2 expression in the adult rat CNS by using immunohistochemistry. Here we show that BMP2 is widely expressed throughout the adult CNS. In addition, besides intense BMP2 expression in almost all neurons, we found BMP2 expression in astrocytes and ependymal cells. Interestingly, we found that the axons of olfactory sensory neurons express BMP2. In addition, in the glomerular layer, BMP2 was very strongly expressed in some glomeruli, whereas the other glomeruli were weakly stained, suggesting that the variations in BMP2 expression level in each glomerus might be cues for each axon to find its adequate target and to keep its identity. Furthermore, we compared the expression patterns of BMP2 and BMP4. Interestingly, BMP4 was preferentially expressed in the dendrites of several neurons, whereas BMP2 was basically not expressed in the dendrites; however, it was detected in the axons. This means that in a single neuron the localizations of BMP2 and BMP4 are differentially regulated. These data indicate that BMP2 is more widely expressed throughout the adult CNS than previously reported, and its continued abundant expression in the adult brain strongly supports the idea that BMP2 also plays pivotal roles in the adult brain.
In this study we examine and describe the neuroanatomical organization of sensory cortex in four rodents: laboratory Norway rats (Long Evans; Rattus norvegicus), wild-caught Norway rats (Rattus norvegicus), wild-caught California ground squirrels (Spermophilus beecheyi), and wild-caught Eastern gray squirrels (Sciurus carolinensis). Specifically, we examined the myeloarchitecture and cytochrome oxidase reactivity for several well-identified areas in visual cortex (areas 17, 18, and 19), somatosensory cortex (areas S1, S2 and PV), and auditory cortex [areas A1+AAF (R) and TA] and compared the percentage of dorsolateral cortex devoted to each of these areas. Our results demonstrate that squirrels have a larger mean percentage of dorsolateral cortex devoted to visual areas than rats. The difference is due to the greater percentage of cortex devoted to known areas such as area 17 and area 18 and not simply to a difference in the number of visual areas, which ultimately makes this distinction even more pronounced. Furthermore, both rat groups have a larger percentage of the dorsolateral cortex devoted to somatosensory and auditory cortical areas. Differences within groups were also observed. The arboreal squirrel had a larger mean percentage of dorsolateral cortex devoted to areas 17 and 18 compared with the terrestrial squirrel. The laboratory Norway rat had a larger percentage of dorsolateral cortex devoted to both somatosensory and auditory areas than the wild-caught Norway rat. Our results indicate that differences in sensory apparatus, use of sensory systems, and niche are reflected in the organization and size of cortical areas.
The vertebrate hand plate is flattened and paddle shaped; that is, it is wide along the anteroposterior (AP) axis (thumb to little finger) and thin along the dorsoventral axis (back of hand to palm). To learn how the hand plate develops its three-dimensional architecture, we observed morphological changes in the distal limb bud of the chick embryo at stages 23-27 and the gecko embryo 11-13 days after oviposition. Cell population of the posterior distal limb bud expanded more than that of the anterior one in the chick embryo. Taken together with the observation that these two cell populations did not show significant differences in their expansion along the proximodistal axis, we propose that the cell population in the posterior limb bud contributes more to the morphogenetic increase along the AP axis, which widens the limb bud for the formation of the hand plate. Our observation that more mitoses were oriented anteroposteriorly than dorsoventrally in the chick embryo at around stage 25 suggests that the oriented cell division contributes to the morphogenetic increase along the AP axis.
The brain microenvironment is continuously monitored by microglia with the detection of apoptotic cells or pathogens being rapidly followed by their phagocytosis to prevent inflammatory responses. The protein annexin A1 (ANXA1) is key to the phagocytosis of apoptotic leukocytes during peripheral inflammatory resolution, but the pathophysiological significance of its expression in the CNS that is restricted almost exclusively to microglia is unclear. In this study, we test the hypothesis that ANXA1 is important in the microglial clearance of apoptotic neurons in both noninflammatory and inflammatory conditions. We have identified ANXA1 to be sparingly expressed in microglia of normally aged human brains and to be more strongly expressed in Alzheimer's disease. Using an in vitro model comprising microglial and neuronal cell lines, as well as primary microglia from wild-type and ANXA1 null mice, we have identified two distinct roles for microglial ANXA1: 1) controlling the noninflammatory phagocytosis of apoptotic neurons and 2) promoting resolution of inflammatory microglial activation. In particular, we showed that microglial-derived ANXA1 targets apoptotic neurons, serving as both an &quot;eat me&quot; signal and a bridge between phosphatidylserine on the dying cell and formyl peptide receptor 2 on the phagocytosing microglia. Moreover, inflammatory activation of microglia impairs their ability to discriminate between apoptotic and nonapoptotic cells, an ability restored by exogenous ANXA1. We thus show that ANXA1 is fundamental for brain homeostasis, and we suggest that ANXA1 and its peptidomimetics can be novel therapeutic targets in neuroinflammation.
Circadian rhythms modulate nearly every mammalian physiological process. Chronic disruption of circadian timing in shift work or during chronic jet lag in animal models leads to a higher risk of several pathologies. Many of these conditions in both shift workers and experimental models share the common risk factor of inflammation. In this study, we show that experimentally induced circadian disruption altered innate immune responses. Endotoxemic shock induced by LPS was magnified, leading to hypothermia and death after four consecutive weekly 6-h phase advances of the light/dark schedule, with 89% mortality compared with 21% in unshifted control mice. This may be due to a heightened release of proinflammatory cytokines in response to LPS treatment in shifted animals. Isolated peritoneal macrophages harvested from shifted mice exhibited a similarly heightened response to LPS in vitro, indicating that these cells are a target for jet lag. Sleep deprivation and stress are known to alter immune function and are potential mediators of the effects we describe. However, polysomnographic recording in mice exposed to the shifting schedule revealed no sleep loss, and stress measures were not altered in shifted mice. In contrast, we observed altered or abolished rhythms in the expression of clock genes in the central clock, liver, thymus, and peritoneal macrophages in mice after chronic jet lag. We conclude that circadian disruption, but not sleep loss or stress, are associated with jet lag-related dysregulation of the innate immune system. Such immune changes might be a common mechanism for the myriad negative health effects of shift work.

Deletion of the tumor suppressor gene p53 has been shown to improve the outcome in experimental models of focal cerebral ischemia and kainate-induced seizures. To evaluate the potential role of p53 in traumatic brain injury, genetically modified mice lacking a functional p53 gene (p53(-/-), n = 9) and their wild-type littermates (p53(+/+), n = 9) were anesthetized and subjected to controlled cortical impact (CCI) experimental brain trauma. After brain injury, neuromotor function was assessed by using composite neuroscore and rotarod tests. By 7 days posttrauma, p53(-/-) mice exhibited significantly improved neuromotor function, in the composite neuroscore (P = 0.002) as well as in two of three individual tests, when compared with brain-injured p53(+/+) animals. CCI resulted in the formation of a cortical cavity (mean volume = 6.1 mm(3)) 7 days postinjury in p53(+/+) as well as p53(-/-) mice. No difference in lesion volume was detected between the two genotypes (P = 0.95). Although significant cell loss was detected in the ipsilateral hippocampus and thalamus of brain-injured animals, no differences between p53(+/+) and p53(-/-) mice were detected. Although our results suggest that lack of the p53 gene results in augmented recovery of neuromotor function following experimental brain trauma, they do not support a role for p53 acting as a mediator of neuronal death in this context, underscoring the complexity of its role in the injured brain.
Extracellular matrix molecules take part in functional isolation and stabilization of neuronal compartments but form a vivid interface between neuronal elements at the same time. Previous studies have shown that the accumulation of extracellular matrix, especially its typical phenotypic form, termed perineuronal nets, correlates not only with the functional properties of the single neuron but also with the functional properties of the whole brain area. In contrast to recent advances in investigating neocortex, the present study mapped the occurrence and phenotypic appearance of aggrecan-based matrix accumulation throughout the rat thalamus. Results showed that divisions of thalamus that relay information to cortical fields known rather for their plastic properties exibit a poor matrix immunoreactivity, whereas matrix accumulation is more enhanced in nuclei connected to primary cortical regions. In addition to perineuronal nets, extracellular matrix condensed in another peculiar form, in 2-5-m, large, round or oval structures, as described by Brckner et al. ([ 2008] Neuroscience 151:489-504) as axonal coats (ACs). Multiple labelling experiments showed that specific excitatory afferents were not ensheathed with these structures. At the same time, inhibitory endings were occasionally enwrapped in ACs. Electron microscopic analysis showed that aggrecan-immunoreactive profiles were present mostly around inhibitory terminals but also in all neuronal compartments. We suggest that aggrecan-based extracellular matrix is formed by both pre- and postsynaptic elements and is preferably associated with inhibitory terminals in the extracellular space.
There is increasing evidence to suggest a role for the opioid system in the control of pathophysiology of neurological disorders (Alzheimer's, Parkinson's, and Huntington's diseases, spinal cord injury, epilepsy, hypoxia, and autism). Resuscitation of the altered expression of the opioid system in various neurological disorders is of therapeutic importance. Such treatment may be beneficial in ameliorating the clinical symptoms of the disorder. This Mini-Review provides a brief update on opioid system regulation in neurological disorders and focuses on the opioids' pharmacological importance.



Passing current through mastoid electrodes (conventionally termed galvanic vestibular stimulation; GVS) evokes a balance response containing a short- and a medium-latency response. The origins of these two responses are debated. Here we test the hypotheses that they originate from net signals evoked by stimulation of otolith and semi-circular canal afferents, respectively. Based on anatomy and function, we predicted the directions of the stimulus-evoked net head rotation vector from the canals and the linear acceleration net vector from the otoliths. We tested these predictions in healthy adults by obtaining responses with the head in strategic postures to alter the relevance of the signals to the balance system. Cross-covariance between a stochastic waveform of stimulating current and motor output was used to assess the balance responses. Consistent with the canal hypothesis, with the head pitched down the medium-latency EMG response was abolished while the short-latency EMG response was maintained. The results, however, did not support the otolith hypothesis. The direction of the linear acceleration signal from the otoliths was predicted to change substantially when using monaural stimuli compared to binaural stimuli. In contrast, short-latency response direction measured from ground-reaction forces was not altered. It was always directed along the inter-aural axis irrespective of whether the stimulus was applied binaurally or monaurally, whether the head was turned in yaw through 90 deg, whether the head was pitched down through 90 deg, or combinations of these manipulations. We conclude that a net canal signal evoked by GVS contributes to the medium-latency response whilst a net otolith signal does not make a significant contribution to either the short- or medium-latency responses.
Maturation of principal neurons of the medial nucleus of the trapezoid body (MNTB) was assessed in the context of the developmental organization and activity of their presynaptic afferents, which grow rapidly to form calyces of Held and to establish mono-innervation between postnatal days (P)2 and 4. MNTB neurons and their inputs were studied from embryonic day (E)17, when the nucleus was first discernable, until P14 after the onset of hearing. Using a novel slice preparation containing portions of the cochlea, cochlear nucleus and MNTB, we determined that synaptic inputs form onto MNTB neurons at E17 and stimulation of the cochlear nucleus can evoke action potentials (APs) and Ca(2+) signals. We analysed converging inputs onto individual MNTB neurons and found that competition among inputs was resolved quickly, as a single large input, typically larger than 4 nA, emerged from P3-P4. During calyx growth but before hearing onset, MNTB cells acquired their mature, phasic firing property and quantitative real-time PCR confirmed a coincident increase in low threshold K(+) channel mRNA. These events occurred in concert with an increase in somatic surface area and a 7-fold increase in the current threshold (30 to &gt;200 pA) required to evoke action potentials, as input resistance (R(in)) settled from embryonic values greater than 1 G to approximately 200 M. We postulate that the postsynaptic transition from hyperexcitability to decreased excitability during calyx growth could provide a mechanism to establish the mature 1:1 innervation by selecting the winning calyceal input based on synaptic strength. By comparing biophysical maturation of the postsynaptic cell to alterations in presynaptic organization, we propose that maturation of synaptic partners is coordinated by synaptic activity in a process that is likely to generalize to other neural systems.
Nonmotor symptoms (NMS) are increasingly recognized as important and neglected aspects of Parkinson's disease (PD). We evaluated their relative frequency and comparative impact on health-related quality of life (Hr-QoL) using validated questionnaires. In addition, we assessed the rate of reporting of NMS in neurology clinics compared with their subjective impact on patients. We used a range of validated clinimetric scales of motor and nonmotor symptoms and Hr-QoL to assess consecutive patients with PD. Reporting of NMS was assessed by comparison with case note documentation. A mean of 11 of 30 NMS per patient were elicited on the NMS questionnaire of which on average 4.8 were reported in the clinical notes (44%). The most common NMS were autonomic (particularly urinary). The Hr-QoL scores correlated most strongly with autonomic dysfunction (r = 0.84; particularly urinary and gastrointestinal symptoms), mood (r = 0.74), fatigue (r = 0.74), sleep problems (nocturnal r = 0.55; daytime somnolence r = 0.65), pain (r = 0.56), and psychosis (r = 0.55, all p &lt; 0.0001) followed by UPDRS motor score (r = 0.48, p &lt; 0.0001). Greater motor fluctuations (r = 0.57) and dyskinesia (r = 0.43, both p &lt; 0.0001) were also associated with worse Hr-QoL. In multivariate analysis, depression had the strongest association with Hr-QoL (adjusted R(2) = 0.53, p = 0.005) followed by fatigue, thermoregulatory, gastrointestinal, and cardiovascular autonomic function (especially orthostatic hypotension), daytime somnolence, and urinary problems. This study demonstrates that a autonomic dysfunction, psychiatric complications, pain, fatigue, and sleep problems are major correlates of poor Hr-QoL. However, whilst psychiatric problems are increasingly documented, many symptoms (particularly those possibly perceived as embarrassing or unrelated) remain under-reported.
Multiple system atrophy (MSA) is a neurodegenerative disease not only affecting the basal ganglia, brainstem, cerebellum, and intermediolateral cell columns of the spinal cord but also the cerebral cortex. Clinically, cerebellar (MSA-C) and parkinsonian variants of MSA (MSA-P) are distinguished. We investigated 14 MSA patients (10 MSA-C, 4 MSA-P, men: 7, women: 7; age: 61.1  3.3 years) and 14 matched controls (men: 7, women: 7; age: 58.6  5.1 years) with voxel-based morphometry (VBM) to analyze gray and white matter differences both at baseline and at follow-up, 1 year later. Baseline comparisons between patients and controls confirmed significantly less gray matter in MSA in the cerebellum and cerebral cortex, and significantly less white matter in the cerebellar peduncles and brainstem. Comparisons of tissue-loss profiles (i.e., baseline versus follow-up) between patients and controls, revealed white matter reduction in MSA along the middle cerebellar peduncles, reflecting degeneration of the ponto-cerebellar tract as a particularly prominent and progressive morphological alteration in MSA. Comparisons between baseline and follow-up, separately performed in patients and controls, revealed additional white matter reduction in MSA along the corpus callosum at follow-up. This was replicated through additional shape-based analyses indicating a reduced callosal thickness in the anterior and posterior midbody, extending posteriorly into the isthmus. Callosal atrophy may possibly reflect a disease-specific pattern of neurodegeneration and cortical atrophy, fitting well with the predominant impairment of motor functions in the MSA patients.
Overall brain size is strikingly heritable throughout life. The influence of genes on variation in focal gray and white matter density is less pronounced and may vary with age. This paper describes the relative influences of genes and environment on variation in white matter microstructure, measured along fiber tracts with diffusion tensor imaging and magnetization transfer imaging, in a sample of 185 nine-year old children from monozygotic and dizygotic twin pairs. Fractional anisotropy, a measure of microstructural directionality, was not significantly influenced by genetic factors. In contrast, studying longitudinal and radial diffusivity separately, we found significant genetic effects for both radial and longitudinal diffusivity in the genu and splenium of the corpus callosum and the right superior longitudinal fasciculus. Moreover, genetic factors influencing the magnetization transfer ratio (MTR), putatively representing myelination, were most pronounced in the splenium of the corpus callosum and the superior longitudinal fasciculi, located posterior in the brain. The differences in the extent to which genetic and environmental factors influence the various diffusion parameters and MTR, suggest that different physiological mechanisms (either genetic or environmental) underlie these traits at nine years of age.
Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder (ADHD) is a prevalent neuropsychiatric disorder, with 5% of school age children affected. Up to 80% of the phenotypic variance can be explained by genetic factors. The intermediate or endophenotype approach allows for mapping of the effect of individual risk genes on neurobiological parameters, such as brain structure, chemistry and, ultimately, function. There are two obvious advantages of applying such an approach to complex disorders: first, these measures are causally closer to genes and gene expression than behavior, meaning that gene effects should be magnified. Second, neuroimaging provides a means to uncover the neurobiological mechanisms by which gene variants impact the brain. To date, only fourteen studies have applied an imaging genetics approach to ADHD. Eight of these used MRI, four SPECT and two EEG. These imaging modalities have afforded us a window on the brain, permitting a glimpse of how genetic changes can affect brain structure, chemistry and function. The studies to date have often focused on two prime candidate genes in the dopamine system, the DRD4 and DAT1 genes. However, the effects of neither are yet fully understood. Imaging genetics in ADHD is in its infancy. While attempts to integrate the findings to date are hinting at how genes may impact various aspects of neural functioning, studies testing clear model-based hypotheses, using multimodal approaches may provide a means to link various windows on the brain.
Understanding the evolutionary forces that produced the human brain is a central problem in neuroscience and human biology. Comparisons across primate species show that both brain volume and gyrification (the degree of folding in the cerebral cortex) have progressively increased during primate evolution and there is a strong positive correlation between these two traits across primate species. The human brain is exceptional among primates in both total volume and gyrification, and therefore understanding the genetic mechanisms influencing variation in these traits will improve our understanding of a landmark feature of our species. Here we show that individual variation in gyrification is significantly heritable in both humans and an Old World monkey (baboons, Papio hamadryas). Furthermore, contrary to expectations based on the positive phenotypic correlation across species, the genetic correlation between cerebral volume and gyrification within both humans and baboons is estimated as negative. These results suggest that the positive relationship between cerebral volume and cortical folding across species cannot be explained by one set of selective pressures or genetic changes. Our data suggest that one set of selective pressures favored the progressive increase in brain volume documented in the primate fossil record, and that a second independent selective process, possibly related to parturition and neonatal brain size, may have favored brains with progressively greater cortical folding. Without a second separate selective pressure, natural selection favoring increased brain volume would be expected to produce less folded, more lissencephalic brains. These results provide initial evidence for the heritability of gyrification, and possibly a new perspective on the evolutionary mechanisms underlying long-term changes in the nonhuman primate and human brain.
The structure of the human brain is highly heritable, and is thought to be influenced by many common genetic variants, many of which are currently unknown. Recent advances in neuroimaging and genetics have allowed collection of both highly detailed structural brain scans and genome-wide genotype information. This wealth of information presents a new opportunity to find the genes influencing brain structure. Here we explore the relation between 448,293 single nucleotide polymorphisms in each of 31,622 voxels of the entire brain across 740 elderly subjects (mean age+/-s.d.: 75.52+/-6.82 years; 438 male) including subjects with Alzheimer's disease, Mild Cognitive Impairment, and healthy elderly controls from the Alzheimer's Disease Neuroimaging Initiative (ADNI). We used tensor-based morphometry to measure individual differences in brain structure at the voxel level relative to a study-specific template based on healthy elderly subjects. We then conducted a genome-wide association at each voxel to identify genetic variants of interest. By studying only the most associated variant at each voxel, we developed a novel method to address the multiple comparisons problem and computational burden associated with the unprecedented amount of data. No variant survived the strict significance criterion, but several genes worthy of further exploration were identified, including CSMD2 and CADPS2. These genes have high relevance to brain structure. This is the first voxelwise genome wide association study to our knowledge, and offers a novel method to discover genetic influences on brain structure.
Human cognitive functions are highly variable across individuals and are both genetically and environmentally influenced. Recent behavioral genetics studies have identified several common genetic polymorphisms, which are related to individual differences in memory performance. In addition, imaging genetics studies are starting to explore the neural correlates of genetic differences in memory functions on the level of brain circuits. In this review we will describe how functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) can be used to validate and extend findings of behavioral genetics studies of episodic memory and give examples of recent advances in this new and exciting research field. In addition, we will present advantages and problems related to the different sensitivity of behavioral- vs. imaging genetics studies and discuss possible methodological approaches for an appropriate evaluation and integration of the results. Although the field of imaging genetics of episodic memory is still young, it already became clear that imaging methods have a large potential to enhance our understanding of the neural mechanisms that underlie genetic differences in memory.
Genetic control over morphological variability of primary sulci and gyri is of great interest in the evolutionary, developmental and clinical neurosciences. Primary structures emerge early in development and their morphology is thought to be related to neuronal differentiation, development of functional connections and cortical lateralization. We measured the proportional contributions of genetics and environment to regional variability, testing two theories regarding regional modulation of genetic influences by ontogenic and phenotypic factors. Our measures were surface area, and average length and depth of eleven primary cortical sulci from high-resolution MR images in 180 pedigreed baboons. Average heritability values for sulcal area, depth and length (h(2)(Area)=.38+/-.22; h(2)(Depth)=.42+/-.23; h(2)(Length)=.34+/-.22) indicated that regional cortical anatomy is under genetic control. The regional pattern of genetic contributions was complex and, contrary to previously proposed theories, did not depend upon sulcal depth, or upon the sequence in which structures appear during development. Our results imply that heritability of sulcal phenotypes may be regionally modulated by arcuate U-fiber systems. However, further research is necessary to unravel the complexity of genetic contributions to cortical morphology.
Previous functional magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) studies in healthy subjects with the apolipoprotein Eepsilon4 (APOE-4) genetic risk for Alzheimer's disease have shown increased activation during memory task performance in broadly distributed cortical regions. These findings have been hypothesized to reflect compensatory recruitment of intact brain regions that presumably result from subtle neural dysfunction reflecting incipient disease. In this study, we used high-resolution functional MRI in APOE-4 carriers and non-carriers to measure activity in hippocampal subregions (CA fields 1, 2, 3; dentate gyrus [DG], and subiculum) and adjacent medial temporal lobe (parahippocampal and entorhinal) subregions. We found reduced left CA2, CA3, and dentate gyrus (CA23DG) activity in cognitively intact APOE-4 carriers. These results suggest that reduced neural activity in hippocampal subregions may underlie the compensatory increase in extrahippocampal activity in people with a genetic risk for Alzheimer's disease prior to the onset of cognitive deficits.
In adults, migraine with aura is considered to be a risk factor for stroke, especially when other risk factors exist. However, the relationship between migraine with aura and risk of cerebral infarct in children has not been well established and requires further study. We describe four young patients who suffered from migraine with aura and focal neurological deficits. All four patients had migraine with aura and focal neurological deficits associated with headaches. Two of the four young patients had cerebral infarct during their migraine headaches. Detailed investigation did not reveal the etiology of the cerebral infarct in these two adolescents. No risk factor for stroke was apparent in any of the four patients and no specific risk factor or reliable clinical feature could be used to identify these young patients at risk for irreversible cerebral ischemia. Thus, our observations provide support that there may be an association between migraine with aura and risk of stroke in children. We, therefore, advocate aggressive treatment using prophylactic agents to prevent migraine attacks in children suffering from migraine with aura, especially when auras are prolonged.
Lifelong latent infections of the trigeminal ganglion by the neurotropic herpes simplex virus type 1 (HSV-1) are characterized by periodic reactivation. During these episodes, newly produced virions may also reach the central nervous system (CNS), causing productive but generally asymptomatic infections. Epidemiological and experimental findings suggest that HSV-1 might contribute to the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease (AD). This multifactorial neurodegenerative disorder is related to an overproduction of amyloid beta (A) and other neurotoxic peptides, which occurs during amyloidogenic endoproteolytic processing of the transmembrane amyloid precursor protein (APP). The aim of our study was to identify the effects of productive HSV-1 infection on APP processing in neuronal cells. We found that infection of SH-SY5Y human neuroblastoma cells and rat cortical neurons is followed by multiple cleavages of APP, which result in the intra- and/or extra-cellular accumulation of various neurotoxic species. These include: i) APP fragments (APP-Fs) of 35 and 45 kDa (APP-F35 and APP-F45) that comprise portions of A; ii) N-terminal APP-Fs that are secreted; iii) intracellular C-terminal APP-Fs; and iv) A(1-40) and A(1-42). Western blot analysis of infected-cell lysates treated with formic acid suggests that APP-F35 may be an A oligomer. The multiple cleavages of APP that occur in infected cells are produced in part by known components of the amyloidogenic APP processing pathway, i.e., host-cell -secretase, -secretase, and caspase-3-like enzymes. These findings demonstrate that HSV-1 infection of neuronal cells can generate multiple APP fragments with well-documented neurotoxic potentials. It is tempting to speculate that intra- and extracellular accumulation of these species in the CNS resulting from repeated HSV-1 reactivation could, in the presence of other risk factors, play a co-factorial role in the development of AD.
Neuronal morphology plays a significant role in determining how neurons function and communicate. Specifically, it affects the ability of neurons to receive inputs from other cells and contributes to the propagation of action potentials. The morphology of the neurites also affects how information is processed. The diversity of dendrite morphologies facilitate local and long range signaling and allow individual neurons or groups of neurons to carry out specialized functions within the neuronal network. Alterations in dendrite morphology, including fragmentation of dendrites and changes in branching patterns, have been observed in a number of disease states, including Alzheimer's disease, schizophrenia, and mental retardation. The ability to both understand the factors that shape dendrite morphologies and to identify changes in dendrite morphologies is essential in the understanding of nervous system function and dysfunction. Neurite morphology is often analyzed by Sholl analysis and by counting the number of neurites and the number of branch tips. This analysis is generally applied to dendrites, but it can also be applied to axons. Performing this analysis by hand is both time consuming and inevitably introduces variability due to experimenter bias and inconsistency. The Bonfire program is a semi-automated approach to the analysis of dendrite and axon morphology that builds upon available open-source morphological analysis tools. Our program enables the detection of local changes in dendrite and axon branching behaviors by performing Sholl analysis on subregions of the neuritic arbor. For example, Sholl analysis is performed on both the neuron as a whole as well as on each subset of processes (primary, secondary, terminal, root, etc.) Dendrite and axon patterning is influenced by a number of intracellular and extracellular factors, many acting locally. Thus, the resulting arbor morphology is a result of specific processes acting on specific neurites, making it necessary to perform morphological analysis on a smaller scale in order to observe these local variations. The Bonfire program requires the use of two open-source analysis tools, the NeuronJ plugin to ImageJ and NeuronStudio. Neurons are traced in ImageJ, and NeuronStudio is used to define the connectivity between neurites. Bonfire contains a number of custom scripts written in MATLAB (MathWorks) that are used to convert the data into the appropriate format for further analysis, check for user errors, and ultimately perform Sholl analysis. Finally, data are exported into Excel for statistical analysis. A flow chart of the Bonfire program is shown in Figure 1.
Like other endogenous enkephalinase inhibitors, human opiorphin peptide (QRFSR) attenuates catabolism of enkephalins and appears to be a promising therapeutic, displaying antinociceptive action in several pain models. However, its opioid-like side-effect profile is insufficiently characterized. In the present set of experiments, acute intraperitoneal administration of opiorphin produced an antinociceptive effect in the tail-flick test in mice (0.3mg/kg) and this action was inhibited by opioid receptor antagonist naloxone (3mg/kg). Repeated treatment with opiorphin changed the antinociceptive response neither to itself nor to morphine, suggesting the lack of tolerance and morphine cross-tolerance, respectively. Repeated treatment with opiorphin (3mg/kg) also failed to produce opioid dependence. Opiorphin (0.3 or 1mg/kg) produced no rewarding effects in the conditioned place preference test. However, at the dose of 3mg/kg, the peptide produced antidepressant-like effect in the forced swim test, and it did not affect locomotor activity. The present set of results confirms the beneficial effects of opiorphin in pain management, and suggests a lack of opioid-like side effects as well as the presence of antidepressant-like actions of this peptide.
Movement observation and imagery are increasingly propagandized for motor rehabilitation. Both observation and imagery are thought to improve motor function through repeated activation of mental motor representations. However, it is unknown what stimulation parameters or imagery conditions are optimal for rehabilitation purposes. A better understanding of the mechanisms underlying movement observation and imagery is essential for the optimization of functional outcome using these training conditions. This study systematically assessed the corticospinal excitability during rest, observation, imagery and execution of a simple and a complex finger-tapping sequence in healthy controls using transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS). Observation was conducted passively (without prior instructions) as well as actively (in order to imitate). Imagery was performed visually and kinesthetically. A larger increase in corticospinal excitability was found during active observation in comparison with passive observation and visual or kinesthetic imagery. No significant difference between kinesthetic and visual imagery was found. Overall, the complex task led to a higher corticospinal excitability in comparison with the simple task. In conclusion, the corticospinal excitability was modulated during both movement observation and imagery. Specifically, active observation of a complex motor task resulted in increased corticospinal excitability. Active observation may be more effective than imagery for motor rehabilitation purposes. In addition, the activation of mental motor representations may be optimized by varying task-complexity.
In order to evaluate the influence of changes in affective state on light-enhanced startle, the effects of positive affect, induced by acute cocaine administration, and the effect of negative affect, induced by spontaneous cocaine withdrawal-induced anxiety, were studied. Acute cocaine administration decreased LES, whereas withdrawal from chronic cocaine administration exacerbated LES 24h after withdrawal, an effect indicative of increased anxiety. This exacerbated LES was reduced, but not back to normal, 4 days after withdrawal. The finding that both cocaine-induced positive and negative affect can be detected in LES, suggests that this may be a valuable tool in studying affect regulation in rodents.
Previously we reported that time-dependent increases in cue-induced reinstatement of cocaine seeking were attenuated in rats self-administering cocaine as adolescents, compared with adults (Li and Frantz (2009)). Now using sucrose self-administration, we report time-dependent increases in cue-induced reinstatement of sucrose seeking are similar across age groups, suggesting that age differences in reinstatement of cocaine seeking depend on specific effects of cocaine, not a compromised ability among younger rats to associate cues with rewards.
The clathrin-assembly protein AP180 is known to promote the assembly of clathrin-coated vesicles in the neuron. However, it is unknown whether the expression of AP180 is influenced by neuronal activity. In this study, we report that chronic depolarization results in a reduction of AP180 from hippocampal neurons, while acute depolarization causes a dispersed synaptic distribution of AP180. Activity-induced effects are observed only for AP180, but not for the structurally-related clathrin-assembly proteins CALM, epsin1, or HIP1. These findings suggest that AP180 levels and synaptic distribution are highly sensitive to neuronal activity.
Astrocytes play an important role in astrocyte-neuron homeostasis. In HIV-1-infected brain, interleukin 1 beta (IL-1) activation of astrocytes contributes to neurodegeneration. However, the molecular mechanisms underlying IL-1-activated-astrocytes-induced neurodegeneration in HIV-1-infected brain are largely unknown. We hypothesize that secretory factors from the activated astrocytes affect N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA) receptor, a major pathway implicated in HIV-1-associated neurodegeneration. To test this hypothesis, we studied effects of IL-1-stimulated astrocyte conditioned medium (ACM+) for its ability to activate NR1a/NR2B receptors expressed on Xenopus oocytes. Astrocytes treated with IL-1 20ng/ml for 24h induced CXCL8, CCL2, MMP1 and MMP7. Pressure ejection of the ACM(+) produced an inward current in NR1a/NR2B-expressing oocytes. The inward current produced by ACM(+) was blocked by NMDA receptor antagonist, APV but not by non-NMDA receptor antagonist, CNQX. These results suggest that IL-1 stimulated astrocytes activate NR1a/NR2B receptors which may have implications in HIV-1-associated neurodegeneration.
Perception of pain involves both the peripheral and central nervous systems. Starting with a whole-genome RNA interference screen in Drosophila, Neely etal. (2010) identify a mammalian gene that is required not only for efficient transfer of pain signals between brain centers, but also for the suppression of inappropriate signaling between other sensory systems.
Aromatic-aromatic interactions are a prominent feature of the crystal structure of ELIC [Protein Data Bank (PDB) code 2VL0], a bacterial member of the nicotinic receptor superfamily of ion channels where five pore-facing phenylalanines come together to form a structure akin to a narrow iris that occludes the transmembrane pore. To identify the functional state of the channel that this structure represents, we engineered phenylalanines at various pore-facing positions of the muscle acetylcholine (ACh) receptor (one position at a time), including the position that aligns with the native phenylalanine 246 of ELIC, and assessed the consequences of such mutations using electrophysiological and toxin-binding assays. From our experiments, we conclude that the interaction among the side chains of pore-facing phenylalanines, rather than the accumulation of their independent effects, leads to the formation of a nonconductive conformation that is unresponsive to the application of ACh and is highly stable even in the absence of ligand. Moreover, electrophysiological recordings from a GLIC channel (another bacterial member of the superfamily) engineered to have a ring of phenylalanines at the corresponding pore-facing position suggest that this novel refractory state is distinct from the well-known desensitized state. It seems reasonable to propose then that it is in this peculiar nonconductive conformation that the ELIC channel was crystallized. It seems also reasonable to propose that, in the absence of rings of pore-facing aromatic side chains, such stable conformation may never be attained by the ACh receptor. Incidentally, we also noticed that the response of the proton-gated wild-type GLIC channel to a fast change in pH from pH7.4 to pH4.5 (on the extracellular side) is only transient, with the evoked current fading completely in a matter of seconds. This raises the possibility that the crystal structures of GLIC obtained at pH4.0 (PDB code 3EHZ) and pH4.6 (PDB code 3EAM) correspond to the to the (well-known) desensitized state.
Regulation of RNA degradation plays an important role in the control of gene expression. One mechanism of eukaryotic mRNA decay proceeds through an initial deadenylation followed by 5' end decapping and exonucleolytic decay. Dcp2 is currently believed to be the only cytoplasmic decapping enzyme responsible for decapping of all mRNAs. Here we report that Dcp2 protein modestly contributes to bulk mRNA decay and surprisingly is not detectable in a subset of mouse and human tissues. Consistent with these findings, a hypomorphic knockout of Dcp2 had no adverse consequences in mice. In contrast, the previously reported Xenopus nucleolar decapping enzyme, Nudt16, is an ubiquitous cytoplasmic decapping enzyme in mammalian cells. Like Dcp2, Nudt16 also regulates the stability of a subset of mRNAs including a member of the motin family of proteins involved in angiogenesis, Angiomotin-like 2. These data demonstrate mammalian cells possess multiple mRNA decapping enzymes, including Nudt16 to regulate mRNA turnover.
Early rises of pro-inflammatory cytokines play a key role in tissue damage and has detrimental consequences for functional outcome after spinal cord injury (SCI). All-trans retinoic acid (RA) has been shown to be a therapeutic agent reducing cytokine expression in vitro, but its use may be limited due to adverse side effects associated with systemic delivery. Local delivery of RA may circumvent adverse side effects, but may simultaneously reduce the therapeutic benefits of the therapy. Here, we investigated whether local or systemic RA treatment differentially affected pro-inflammatory cytokine expression early after rat SCI. Pro-inflammatory cytokines IL-1, IL-6 and TNF were investigated at 6h after moderate contusion injury of the thoracic (T9) spinal cord, when mRNA levels are known to peak. Rats were either treated with intrathecal RA (0, 2.5, 10, or 100ng) or received an intraperitoneal injection of RA (15mg/kg bodyweight). Surprisingly intrathecal RA up to amounts of 100ng did not attenuate SCI-induced increases in gene-expression of pro-inflammatory cytokines. In contrast, intraperitoneal RA rendered a 60%, 35% and 58% reduction of IL-1, IL-6 and TNF mRNA levels, respectively. Although local doses higher than 100ng RA may reduce pro-inflammatory cytokine gene-expression, such doses precipitate and possibly increase risks of adverse side effects. We conclude that in contrast to systemic delivery, intrathecal administration of RA up to doses of 100ng is ineffective in reducing early pro-inflammatory cytokine gene-expression. Future studies are required to investigate the effects of single intraperitoneal RA treatment on long-term SCI outcome.
MicroRNAs (miRNAs) have recently emerged as a new class of modulators of gene expression. miRNAs control protein synthesis by targeting mRNAs for translational repression or degradation at the posttranscriptional level. These noncoding RNAs are endogenous, single-stranded molecules approximately 22 nucleotides in length and have roles in multiple facets of immunity, from regulation of development of key cellular players to activation and function in immune responses. Recent studies have shown that dysregulation of miRNAs involved in immune responses leads to autoimmunity. Multiple sclerosis (MS) serves as an example of a chronic and organ-specific autoimmune disease in which miRNAs modulate immune responses in the peripheral immune compartment and the neuroinflammatory process in the brain. For MS, miRNAs have the potential to serve as modifying drugs. In this review, we summarize current knowledge of miRNA biogenesis and mode of action and the diverse roles of miRNAs in modulating the immune and inflammatory responses. We also review the role of miRNAs in autoimmunity, focusing on emerging data regarding miRNA expression patterns in MS. Finally, we discuss the potential of miRNAs as a disease marker and a novel therapeutic target in MS. Better understanding of the role of miRNAs in MS will improve our knowledge of the pathogenesis of this disease.
The 7 nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (nAChRs) play an important role in the pathophysiology of neuropsychiatric diseases such as schizophrenia and Alzheimer's disease. However, there are currently no suitable small molecule radioligands for imaging 7 nAChRs in the brain. In this study, we synthesized the novel radioligand [(125)I]4-iodophenyl 1,4-diazaicyclo[3.2.2]nonane-4-carboxylate ([(125)I]CHIBA-1006), a iodine-derivative of the selective 7 nAChR agonist SSR180711, and studied the characterization of [(125)I]CHIBA-1006 binding to rat brain membranes. The assays of [(125)I]CHIBA-1006 binding to rat brain membranes were performed at 4C. The presence of a single saturable high-affinity binding component for [(125)I]CHIBA-1006 in the rat brain was shown. Scatchard analysis revealed an apparent equilibrium dissociation constant (K(d)) of 88.221.4nM and a maximal number of binding sites (B(max)) of 65.46.8fmol/mg protein (meanSEM, n=4). The specific binding of [(125)I]CHIBA-1006 was inhibited by a number of 7 nAChR-selective ligands (e.g., unlabeled CHIBA-1006, SSR180711, CHIBA-1001, MG624 and A844606), suggesting a similarity among 7 nAChR pharmacological profiles. In contrast, -bungarotoxin, MLA, and nicotine showed very weak affinity for [(125)I]CHIBA-1006 binding. The regional distribution of [(125)I]CHIBA-1006 binding to crude membranes from dissected regions of the rat brain was different from that of [(125)I]-bungarotoxin binding, suggesting that [(125)I]CHIBA-1006 binding sites may not be identical to [(125)I]-bungarotoxin binding sites in the rat brain. The present findings suggest that [(125)I]CHIBA-1006 would be a useful new small molecule radioligand for 7 nAChRs in the brain.
A series of compounds was designed as dual inhibitors of the H(3) receptor and the norepinephrine transporter. Compound 5 (rNET K(i) = 14 nM; rH(3)R K(i) = 37 nM) was found to be efficacious in a rat model of osteoarthritic pain.
Histamine H(1) and serotonin 5-HT(2A) receptors mediate two different mechanisms involved in sleep regulation: H(1) antagonists are sleep inducers, while 5-HT(2A) antagonists are sleep maintainers. Starting from 9'a, a novel spirotetracyclic compound endowed with good H(1)/5-HT(2A) potency but poor selectivity, very high Cli, and a poor P450 profile, a specific optimization strategy was set up. In particular, we investigated the possibility of introducing appropriate amino acid moieties to optimize the developability profile of the series. Following this zwitterionic approach, we were able to identify several advanced leads (51, 65, and 73) with potent dual H(1)/5-HT(2A) activity and appropriate developability profiles. These compounds exhibited efficacy as hypnotic agents in a rat telemetric sleep model with minimal effective doses in the range 3-10 mg/kg po.
When moving through our environment, it is vital to preferentially process positions on our future path in order to react quickly to critical situations. During smooth pursuit, attention may be directed ahead with either a focused locus or a broad bias. We examined the 2D spatial extent of attention during a smooth pursuit task using both saccade (SRT) and manual (MRT) reaction times as measures of attentional allocation. Targets were flashed at various locations around current eye position while subjects pursued a moving target. Subjects made a saccade or pressed a button as soon as they perceived the target. Both SRTs and MRTs were shortest to targets flashed ahead of compared to behind the direction of pursuit across half of the visual field ahead of pursuit direction. Furthermore, we found an increase specific to SRTs at small target eccentricities directly ahead of pursuit, which may be related to an additional saccade trigger strategy; small saccades take longer to execute if smooth pursuit brings the eyes close to the target. In summary, both SRTs and MRTs revealed that attention is by default broadly allocated in the visual hemi-field ahead of the line of sight during smooth pursuit eye movements. This attentional bias may serve a predictive purpose for facilitating the processing of upcoming events.
Laser Speckle Contrast Imaging (LSCI) is a simple yet powerful technique that is used for full-field imaging of blood flow. The technique analyzes fluctuations in a dynamic speckle pattern to detect the movement of particles similar to how laser Doppler analyzes frequency shifts to determine particle speed. Because it can be used to monitor the movement of red blood cells, LSCI has become a popular tool for measuring blood flow in tissues such as the retina, skin, and brain. It has become especially useful in neuroscience where blood flow changes during physiological events like functional activation, stroke, and spreading depolarization can be quantified. LSCI is also attractive because it provides excellent spatial and temporal resolution while using inexpensive instrumentation that can easily be combined with other imaging modalities. Here we show how to build a LSCI setup and demonstrate its ability to monitor blood flow changes in the brain during an animal experiment.
Mutations in the X-linked MECP2 gene, which encodes the transcriptional regulator methyl-CpG-binding protein 2 (MeCP2), cause Rett syndrome and several neurodevelopmental disorders including cognitive disorders, autism, juvenile-onset schizophrenia and encephalopathy with early lethality. Rett syndrome is characterized by apparently normal early development followed by regression, motor abnormalities, seizures and features of autism, especially stereotyped behaviours. The mechanisms mediating these features are poorly understood. Here we show that mice lacking Mecp2 from GABA (-aminobutyric acid)-releasing neurons recapitulate numerous Rett syndrome and autistic features, including repetitive behaviours. Loss of MeCP2 from a subset of forebrain GABAergic neurons also recapitulates many features of Rett syndrome. MeCP2-deficient GABAergic neurons show reduced inhibitory quantal size, consistent with a presynaptic reduction in glutamic acid decarboxylase 1 (Gad1) and glutamic acid decarboxylase 2 (Gad2) levels, and GABA immunoreactivity. These data demonstrate that MeCP2 is critical for normal function of GABA-releasing neurons and that subtle dysfunction of GABAergic neurons contributes to numerous neuropsychiatric phenotypes.
A microglial cell is both a glial cell of the central nervous system and a mononuclear phagocyte, which belongs to the haematopoietic system and is involved in inflammatory and immune responses. As such, microglia face a challenging task. The neurons of the central nervous system cannot divide and be replenished, and therefore need to be protected against pathogens, which is a key role of the immune system, but without collateral damage. In addition, after physical injury, neural cells need restorative support, which is provided by inflammatory responses. Excessive or chronic inflammatory responses can, however, be harmful. How microglia balance these demands, and how their behaviour can be modified to ameliorate disorders of the central nervous system, is becoming clear.
Blood flow in the brain is regulated by neurons and astrocytes. Knowledge of how these cells control blood flow is crucial for understanding how neural computation is powered, for interpreting functional imaging scans of brains, and for developing treatments for neurological disorders. It is now recognized that neurotransmitter-mediated signalling has a key role in regulating cerebral blood flow, that much of this control is mediated by astrocytes, that oxygen modulates blood flow regulation, and that blood flow may be controlled by capillaries as well as by arterioles. These conceptual shifts in our understanding of cerebral blood flow control have important implications for the development of new therapeutic approaches.
Psychotic syndromes can be understood as disorders of adaptation to social context. Although heritability is often emphasized, onset is associated with environmental factors such as early life adversity, growing up in an urban environment, minority group position and cannabis use, suggesting that exposure may have an impact on the developing 'social' brain during sensitive periods. Therefore heritability, as an index of genetic influence, may be of limited explanatory power unless viewed in the context of interaction with social effects. Longitudinal research is needed to uncover gene-environment interplay that determines how expression of vulnerability in the general population may give rise to more severe psychopathology.





Recent successes as a pharmacological adjunct to exposure therapy has focused attention on the therapeutic potential of the glycine(B) receptor partial agonist, D-cycloserine (DCS), in certain clinical anxiety disorders. Although widely believed to reflect a facilitation of extinction learning, previous research with DCS and other glycine(B) partial agonists suggests the additional possibility of intrinsic anxiolytic activity. In the present study, ethological methods were used to profile the behavioural effects of DCS (7.5-30.0mg/kg) and the positive control chlordiazepoxide (CDP, 15 mg/kg) in mice exposed to the elevated plus-maze for the first time (plus-maze trial 1; Experiment 1) and in mice pre-exposed undrugged to the maze 24h prior to testing (plus-maze trial 2; Experiment 2). The results show that, in test-naive animals, both CDP and DCS (15 mg/kg, but not lower or higher doses) produced significant anxioselective profiles with the effects of DCS statistically weaker than those of CDP. However, as predicted by the plus-maze retest effect, CDP was without behavioural activity in test-experienced animals, while the highest dose of DCS (30 mg/kg) induced behavioural changes more consistent with mild psychomotor stimulation than anxiolysis. Present findings therefore confirm the intrinsic anxiolytic activity of DCS in untrained animals, with the observed bell-shaped dose-response function most probably indicative of varying affinities and intrinsic activities at NMDA receptor subtypes. The contrasting and comparatively limited effects of DCS in test-experienced mice suggest that prior maze exposure radically alters the extent to which NMDA receptor-related mechanisms are involved in future behavioural responses to this test environment.
Cortical efferents growing in the same environment diverge early in development. The expression of particular transcription factors dictates the trajectories taken, presumably by regulating responsiveness to guidance cues via cellular mechanisms that are not yet known. Here, we show that cortical neurons that are dissociated and grown in culture maintain their cell type-specific identities defined by the expression of transcription factors. Using this model system, we sought to identify and characterize mechanisms that are recruited to produce cell type-specific responses to Semaphorin 3A (Sema3A), a guidance cue that would be presented similarly to cortical axons in vivo. Axons from presumptive corticofugal neurons lacking the transcription factor Satb2 and expressing Ctip2 or Tbr1 respond far more robustly to Sema3A than those from presumptive callosal neurons expressing Satb2. Both populations of axons express similar levels of Sema3A receptors (neuropilin-1, cell adhesion molecule L1, and plexinA4), but significantly, axons from neurons lacking Satb2 internalize more Sema3A, and they do so via a raft-mediated endocytic pathway. We used an in silico approach to identify the endocytosis effector flotillin-1 as a Sema3A signaling candidate. We tested the contributions of flotillin-1 to Sema3A endocytosis and signaling, and show that raft-mediated Sema3A endocytosis is defined by and depends on the recruitment of flotillin-1, which mediates LIM domain kinase activation and regulates axon responsiveness to Sema3A in presumptive corticofugal axons.
Glucose is the primary energetic substrate of the brain, and measurements of its metabolism are the basis of major functional cerebral imaging methods. Contrary to the general view that neurons are fueled solely by glucose in proportion to their energetic needs, recent in vitro and ex vivo analyses suggest that glucose preferentially feeds astrocytes. However, the cellular fate of glucose in the intact brain has not yet been directly observed. We have used a real-time method for measuring glucose uptake in astrocytes and neurons in vivo in male rats by imaging the trafficking of the nonmetabolizable glucose analog 6-deoxy-N-(7-nitrobenz-2-oxa-1,3-diazol-4-yl)-aminoglucose (6-NBDG) using two-photon microscopy. During resting conditions we found that astrocytes and neurons both take up 6-NBDG at the same rate in the barrel cortex of the rat. However, during intense neuronal activity triggered by whisker stimulation, astrocytes rapidly accelerated their uptake, whereas neuronal uptake remained almost unchanged. After the stimulation period, astrocytes returned to their preactivation rates of uptake paralleling the neuronal rate of uptake. These observations suggest that glucose is taken up primarily by astrocytes, supporting the view that functional imaging experiments based on glucose analogs extraction may predominantly reflect the metabolic activity of the astrocytic network.
The elusiveness of neuropathic pain mechanisms is a major impediment in developing effective clinical treatments. Here we show that peripheral nerve injury decreased agrin expression in the ipsilateral spinal dorsal horn of rats displaying tactile allodynia. SCP1, an acetaminophen analog, suppressed allodynia and promoted agrin upregulation. Preemptive treatment with SCP1 also upregulated agrin, thereby preventing neuropathic pain development. Expression of 50 kDa agrin delivered by adeno-associated virus into the dorsal horn also suppressed allodynia and hyperalgesia. Allodynia suppression was a consequence of serine residue 896/897 phosphorylation of NMDA receptor NR1 subunits in the GABA interneurons of the dorsal horn. Agrin silencing by small interference RNA, administered with either AAV-Ag50 vector or SCP1, blocked allodynia suppression, agrin upregulation, and NR1 phosphorylation. In conclusion, 50 kDa agrin modulates neuropathic pain through NR1 phosphorylation in GABA neurons. This mechanism may open new approaches for treating not only neuropathic pain, but also epilepsy, tremors, and spasticity.
To investigate the neural basis of the associative aspects of facial identification, we recorded neuronal activity from the ventral, anterior inferior temporal cortex (AITv) of macaque monkeys during the performance of an asymmetrical paired-association (APA) task that required associative pairing between an abstract pattern and five different facial views of a single person. In the APA task, after one element of a pair (either an abstract pattern or a face) was presented as a sample cue, the reward-seeking monkey correctly identified the other element of the pair among various repeatedly presented test stimuli (faces or patterns) that were temporally separated by interstimulus delays. The results revealed that a substantial number of AITv neurons responded both to faces and abstract patterns, and the majority of these neurons responded selectively to a particular associative pair. It was demonstrated that in addition to the view-invariant identity of faces used in the APA task, the population of AITv neurons was also able to represent the associative pairing between faces and abstract patterns, which was acquired by training in the APA task. It also appeared that the effect of associative pairing was not so strong that the abstract pattern could be treated in a manner similar to a series of faces belonging to a unique identity. Together, these findings indicate that the AITv plays a crucial role in both facial identification and semantic associations with facial identities.
Functional homotopy, the high degree of synchrony in spontaneous activity between geometrically corresponding interhemispheric (i.e., homotopic) regions, is a fundamental characteristic of the intrinsic functional architecture of the brain. However, despite its prominence, the lifespan development of the homotopic resting-state functional connectivity (RSFC) of the human brain is rarely directly examined in functional magnetic resonance imaging studies. Here, we systematically investigated age-related changes in homotopic RSFC in 214 healthy individuals ranging in age from 7 to 85 years. We observed marked age-related changes in homotopic RSFC with regionally specific developmental trajectories of varying levels of complexity. Sensorimotor regions tended to show increasing homotopic RSFC, whereas higher-order processing regions showed decreasing connectivity (i.e., increasing segregation) with age. More complex maturational curves were also detected, with regions such as the insula and lingual gyrus exhibiting quadratic trajectories and the superior frontal gyrus and putamen exhibiting cubic trajectories. Sex-related differences in the developmental trajectory of functional homotopy were detected within dorsolateral prefrontal cortex (Brodmann areas 9 and 46) and amygdala. Evidence of robust developmental effects in homotopic RSFC across the lifespan should serve to motivate studies of the physiological mechanisms underlying functional homotopy in neurodegenerative and psychiatric disorders.
There is growing evidence suggesting that early life events have long-term effects on the neuroendocrine and behavioral developments of rodents. However, little is known about the involvement of early life events in the susceptibility to subsequent stress exposure during adulthood. The present study characterized the effect of maternal separation, an animal model of early life adversity, on the behavioral response to repeated restraint stress in adult rats and investigated the molecular mechanism underlying behavioral vulnerability to chronic stress induced by the maternal separation. Rat pups were separated from the dams for 180 min per day from postnatal day 2 through 14 (HMS180 rats). We found that, as young adults, HMS180 rats showed a greater hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis response to acute restraint stress than nonseparated control rats. In addition, repeatedly restrained HMS180 rats showed increased depression-like behavior and an anhedonic response compared with nonrestrained HMS180 rats. Furthermore, HMS180 rats showed increased expression of REST4, a neuron-specific splicing variant of the transcriptional repressor REST (repressor element-1 silencing transcription factor), and a variety of REST target gene mRNAs and microRNAs in the medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC). Finally, REST4 overexpression in the mPFC of neonatal mice via polyethyleneimine-mediated gene transfer enhanced the expression of its target genes as well as behavioral vulnerability to repeated restraint stress. In contrast, REST4 overexpression in the mPFC of adult mice did not affect depression-like behaviors after repeated stress exposure. These results suggest that the activation of REST4-mediated gene regulation in the mPFC during postnatal development is involved in stress vulnerability.
This mini-symposium aims to provide an integrated perspective on recent developments in optogenetics. Research in this emerging field combines optical methods with targeted expression of genetically encoded, protein-based probes to achieve experimental manipulation and measurement of neural systems with superior temporal and spatial resolution. The essential components of the optogenetic toolbox consist of two kinds of molecular devices: actuators and reporters, which respectively enable light-mediated control or monitoring of molecular processes. The first generation of genetically encoded calcium reporters, fluorescent proteins, and neural activators has already had a great impact on neuroscience. Now, a second generation of voltage reporters, neural silencers, and functionally extended fluorescent proteins hold great promise for continuing this revolution. In this review, we will evaluate and highlight the limitations of presently available optogenic tools and discuss where these technologies and their applications are headed in the future.
Tinnitus is a phantom sound (ringing of the ears) that affects quality of life for millions around the world and is associated in most cases with hearing impairment. This symposium will consider evidence that deafferentation of tonotopically organized central auditory structures leads to increased neuron spontaneous firing rates and neural synchrony in the hearing loss region. This region covers the frequency spectrum of tinnitus sounds, which are optimally suppressed following exposure to band-limited noise covering the same frequencies. Cross-modal compensations in subcortical structures may contribute to tinnitus and its modulation by jaw-clenching and eye movements. Yet many older individuals with impaired hearing do not have tinnitus, possibly because age-related changes in inhibitory circuits are better preserved. A brain network involving limbic and other nonauditory regions is active in tinnitus and may be driven when spectrotemporal information conveyed by the damaged ear does not match that predicted by central auditory processing.
Color has become a premier model system for understanding how information is processed by neural circuits, and for investigating the relationships among genes, neural circuits, and perception. Both the physical stimulus for color and the perceptual output experienced as color are quite well characterized, but the neural mechanisms that underlie the transformation from stimulus to perception are incompletely understood. The past several years have seen important scientific and technical advances that are changing our understanding of these mechanisms. Here, and in the accompanying minisymposium, we review the latest findings and hypotheses regarding color computations in the retina, primary visual cortex, and higher-order visual areas, focusing on non-human primates, a model of human color vision.
Despite the progress of the past two decades, the cause of Alzheimer's disease (AD) and effective treatments against it remain elusive. The hypothesis that amyloid- (A) peptides are the primary causative agents of AD retains significant support among researchers. Nonetheless, a growing body of evidence shows that A peptides are unlikely to be the sole factor in AD etiology. Evidence that A/amyloid-independent factors, including the actions of AD-related genes, also contribute significantly to AD pathogenesis was presented in a symposium at the 2010 Annual Meeting of the Society for Neuroscience. Here we summarize the studies showing how amyloid-independent mechanisms cause defective endo-lysosomal trafficking, altered intracellular signaling cascades, or impaired neurotransmitter release and contribute to synaptic dysfunction and/or neurodegeneration, leading to dementia in AD. A view of AD pathogenesis that encompasses both the amyloid-dependent and -independent mechanisms will help fill the gaps in our knowledge and reconcile the findings that cannot be explained solely by the amyloid hypothesis.
MicroRNAs are a class of small RNA regulators that are involved in numerous cellular processes, including development, proliferation, differentiation, and plasticity. The emerging concept is that microRNAs play a central role in controlling the balance between stem cell self-renewal and fate determination by regulating the expression of stem cell regulators. This review will highlight recent advances in the regulation of neural stem cell self-renewal and neurogenesis by microRNAs. It will cover microRNA functions during the entire process of neurogenesis, from neural stem cell self-renewal and fate determination to neuronal maturation, synaptic formation, and plasticity. The interplay between microRNAs and both cell-intrinsic and -extrinsic stem cell players, including transcription factors, epigenetic regulators, and extrinsic signaling molecules will be discussed. This is a summary of the topics covered in the mini-symposium on microRNA regulation of neural stem cells and neurogenesis in SFN 2010 and is not meant to be a comprehensive review of the subject.
The embryonic diencephalon gives rise to the vertebrate thalamus and hypothalamus, which play essential roles in sensory information processing and control of physiological homeostasis and behavior, respectively. In this review, we present new steps toward characterizing the molecular pathways that control development of these structures, based on findings in a variety of model organisms. We highlight advances in understanding how early regional patterning is orchestrated through the action of secreted signaling molecules such as Sonic hedgehog and fibroblast growth factors. We address the role of individual transcription factors in control of the regional identity and neural differentiation within the developing diencephalon, emphasizing the contribution of recent large-scale gene expression studies in providing an extensive catalog of candidate regulators of hypothalamic neural cell fate specification. Finally, we evaluate the molecular mechanisms involved in the experience-dependent development of both thalamo-cortical and hypothalamic neural circuitry.
Operant methods are powerful behavioral tools for the study of motivated behavior. These 'self-administration' methods have been used extensively in drug addiction research due to their high construct validity. Operant studies provide researchers a tool for preclinical investigation of several aspects of the addiction process. For example, mechanisms of acute reinforcement (both drug and non-drug) can be tested using pharmacological or genetic tools to determine the ability of a molecular target to influence self-administration behavior. Additionally, drug or food seeking behaviors can be studied in the absence of the primary reinforcer, and the ability of pharmacological compounds to disrupt this process is a preclinical model for discovery of molecular targets and compounds that may be useful for the treatment of addiction. One problem with performing intravenous drug self-administration studies in the mouse is the technical difficulty of maintaining catheter patency. Attrition rates in these experiments are high and can reach 40% or higher. Another general problem with drug self-administration is discerning which pharmacologically-induced effects of the reinforcer produce specific behaviors. For example, measurement of the reinforcing and neurological effects of psychostimulants can be confounded by their psychomotor effects. Operant methods using food reinforcement can avoid these pitfalls, although their utility in studying drug addiction is limited by the fact that some manipulations that alter drug self-administration have a minimal impact on food self-administration. For example, mesolimbic dopamine lesion or knockout of the D1 dopamine receptor reduce cocaine self-administration without having a significant impact on food self-administration. Sensory stimuli have been described for their ability to support operant responding as primary reinforcers (i.e. not conditioned reinforcers). Auditory and visual stimuli are self-administered by several species, although surprisingly little is known about the neural mechanisms underlying this reinforcement. The operant sensation seeking (OSS) model is a robust model for obtaining sensory self-administration in the mouse, allowing the study of neural mechanisms important in sensory reinforcement. An additional advantage of OSS is the ability to screen mutant mice for differences in operant behavior that may be relevant to addiction. We have reported that dopamine D1 receptor knockout mice, previously shown to be deficient in psychostimulant self-administration, also fail to acquire OSS. This is a unique finding in that these mice are capable of learning an operant task when food is used as a reinforcer. While operant studies using food reinforcement can be useful in the study of general motivated behavior and the mechanisms underlying food reinforcement, as mentioned above, these studies are limited in their application to studying molecular mechanisms of drug addiction. Thus, there may be similar neural substrates mediating sensory and psychostimulant reinforcement that are distinct from food reinforcement, which would make OSS a particularly attractive model for the study of drug addiction processes. The degree of overlap between other molecular targets of OSS and drug reinforcers is unclear, but is a topic that we are currently pursuing. While some aspects of addiction such as resistance to extinction may be observed with OSS, we have found that escalation is not observed in this model. Interestingly, escalation of intake and some other aspects of addiction are observed with self-administration of sucrose. Thus, when non-drug operant procedures are desired to study addiction-related processes, food or sensory reinforcers can be chosen to best fit the particular question being asked. In conclusion, both food self-administration and OSS in the mouse have the advantage of not requiring an intravenous catheter, which allows a higher throughput means to study the effects of pharmacological or genetic manipulation of neural targets involved in motivation. While operant testing using food as a reinforcer is particularly useful in the study of the regulation of food intake, OSS is particularly apt for studying reinforcement mechanisms of sensory stimuli and may have broad applicability to novelty seeking and addiction.
The Kv4.2 gene codes for an essential subunit of voltage-gated A-type potassium channels that are involved in dendritic signal integration and synaptic plasticity. Detailed cellular characterization in CA1 pyramidal neurons of the hippocampus has shown that knocking out the Kv4.2 gene increases neuronal excitability and promotes long-term potentiation. However, the overall behavioral consequences of these modifications have not been fully explored. Given the growing connection between neuronal plasticity and affect processing in the hippocampus and other Kv4.2 expressing regions, we proposed to investigate whether the absence of this gene would alter the stress response of mice to the forced swimming and tail suspension tests (TSTs) for depression-like behavior. Kv4.2 knockout (KO) mice, generated in the 129SvEv background, demonstrated elevated immobility and a loss of swimming, as well as antidepressant resistance to the selective 5-HT reuptake inhibitor fluoxetine (FLX). Characterization of a relatively new head movement behavior category, responsive to serotonergic treatment in wildtype (WT) mice, supported conclusions of abnormal 5-HT modulation. Electrophysiology recordings in the prefrontal cortex showed a blunting of postsynaptic response to direct 5-HT application following a single period of swim stress only in the animals without the Kv4.2 subunit. Based on our findings, we hypothesize that Kv4.2 KO mice may have an exaggerated 5-HT response to stress leading to a premature desensitization of postsynaptic receptors and a loss of continued behavior modulation. These results may shed some light on the involvement of A-type potassium channels in the effective action of selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor (SSRI) antidepressants.
The thalamus conveys sensory information from peripheral and subcortical regions to the neocortex in a dynamic manner that can be influenced by several neuromodulators. Alterations in dopamine (DA) receptor function in thalami of Schizophrenic patients have recently been reported. In addition, schizophrenia is associated with sensory gating abnormalities and sleep-wake disturbances, thus we examined the role of DA on neuronal excitability in somatosensory thalamus. The ventrobasal (VB) thalamus receives dopaminergic innervation and expresses DA receptors; however, the action of DA on VB neurons is unknown. In the present study, we performed whole cell current- and voltage-clamp recordings in rat brain slices to investigate the role of DA on excitability of VB neurons. We found that DA increased action potential discharge and elicited membrane depolarization via activation of different receptor subtypes. Activation of D2-like receptors (D(2R)) leads to enhanced action potential discharge, whereas the membrane depolarization was mediated by D1-like receptors (D(1R)). The D(2R-mediated) increase in spike discharge was mimicked and occluded by -dendrotoxin (-DTX), indicating the involvement of a slowly inactivating K(+) channels. The D1R-mediated membrane depolarization was occluded by barium, suggesting the involvement of a G protein-coupled K(+) channel or an inwardly rectifying K(+) channel. Our results indicate that DA produces dual modulatory effects acting on subtypes of DA receptors in thalamocortical relay neurons, and likely plays a significant role in the modulation of sensory information.
Although the majority of peripheral-nerve regeneration studies are carried out on the sciatic nerve, lesions of the upper extremities are more common in humans and usually lead to significant physical disabilities. The present study was driven by the hypothesis that a combination of strategies, namely grafts of mesenchymal stem cells (MSC) and resorbable polycaprolactone (PCL) conduits would improve median-nerve regeneration after transection. Mouse median nerves were transected and sutured to PCL tubes that were filled with either green fluorescent protein (GFP(+)) MSC in DMEM or with DMEM alone. During the post-operative period, animals were tested weekly for flexor digitorum muscle function by means of the grasping test. After 8 weeks, the proximal and middle portions of the PCL tube and the regenerating nerves were harvested and processed for light and electron microscopy. The flexor digitorum muscle was weighed and subjected to biochemical analysis for creatine phosphokinase (CK) levels. Scanning electron microscopy of the PCL tube 8 weeks after implantation showed clear signs of wall disintegration. MSC-treated animals showed significantly larger numbers of myelinated and unmyelinated nerve fibers and blood vessels compared with DMEM-treated animals. The flexor digitorum muscle CK levels were significantly higher in the MSC-treated animals, but muscle weight values did not differ between the groups. Compared with the DMEM-treated group, MSC-treated animals showed, by the grasping test, improved functional performance throughout the period analyzed. Immunofluorescence for S-100 and GFP showed, in a few cases, double-labeled cells, suggesting that transplanted cells may occasionally transdifferentiate into Schwann cells. Our data demonstrate that the polycaprolactone conduit filled with MSC is capable of significantly improving the median-nerve regeneration after a traumatic lesion.
Endogenous cannabinoid receptors are widely distributed throughout the CNS, including the brainstem, and modulate a variety of functions, including breathing. In adult rats, activation of cannabinoid 1 receptors has been shown to depress breathing. Here in neonatal mice, we used in vitro electrophysiology, pharmacology, and immunohistochemistry to analyse the central effects of the endocannabinoid anandamide (AEA) on the activity of the medullary respiratory rhythm generator (RRG). First of all, in vitro electrophysiology on medullary preparations has revealed that bath application of AEA (30 M, 15 min) significantly depressed respiratory activity. Secondly, applying pre-treatments with alpha-1 (Prazosin, 5 M, 10 min) and alpha-2 (Yohimbine, 5 M, 10 min) adrenoceptor antagonists prior to AEA application abolished the AEA-induced depression of the RRG. Finally, immunostaining revealed a dense network of fibres positive for the cannabinoid 1 receptor in the ventrolateral medulla (VLM), a region known to contain both the RRG and the modulatory A1/C1 catecholaminergic group. Moreover, cannabinoid 1 receptor positive fibres were found in close apposition with A1/C1 catecholaminergic cells, identified by the presence of tyrosine hydroxylase. In regard of our electrophysiological, pharmacological and immunostaining results, we conclude that AEA has a central depressive effect on the neonatal RRG, probably via the medullary A1/C1 catecholaminergic neurons which are already known to modulate the respiratory rhythm generator.
Astrocytes are the predominant glial-cell type in the CNS and they are known to play an active role in modulating neuronal function. Since many of the same molecules including G-protein coupled receptors (GPCRs) are expressed in both neurons and astrocytes, in vivo pharmacological manipulations to target astrocytes lack specificity. In this study, we investigated the effect of Pleckstrin Homology (PH) domain of Phospholipase C (PLC)-like protein p130 (p130PH) on Ca(2+) signaling in astrocytes in vivo. We used the serotype 2/5 recombinant adeno-associated virus (rAAV2/5) vectors to introduce p130PH fused with a tagged protein monomer red fluorescent protein at the N-terminal (i.e., transgene mRFP-p130PH). In order to selectively disrupt the Ca(2+) signaling pathway in astrocytes, the transgene was driven by a novel astrocyte-specific promoter gfaABC(1)D. Our results show that mRFP-p130PH is exclusively expressed in astrocytes with a high efficiency and a stable expression level. In vivo imaging using two-photon microscopy demonstrated reduced Ca(2+) signal in transduced astrocytes in response to ATP stimulation. As Ca(2+) signaling is a characteristic form of cellular excitability in astrocytes that can mediate chemical transmitter release and contribute to neuronal excitotoxicity, the current study provides an in vivo approach to better understand Ca(2+)-dependent gliotransmission and its involvement in glia-related diseases.
Reversal learning is a domain that involves cognitive flexibility and is defined as the ability to rapidly alter established patterns of behavior when confronted with changing circumstances. This function depends critically on the orbitofrontal cortex (OFC) in the prefrontal cortical (PFC) structure, which is among the most sensitive to the influences of aging, and impaired reversal learning is a common functional disturbance of aged brain. The present study was designed to clarify the precisely neurochemical basis of this impaired learning in rats. For this purpose, we first examined reversal learning in young (3-month-old) and aged (24-month-old) rats using a T-maze discrimination task. The ability of aged rats to learn initially a reward rule for a T-maze discrimination task was almost equal to that of young rats, suggesting that simple discrimination ability was normal in aged rats. However, the ability to learn a reversed rule in a subsequent task was markedly impaired in aged rats. In addition, aged rats had reduced dopaminergic transmission concomitant with attenuated tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) activity in the OFC. Moreover, age-related impairment of reversal learning was improved by an intra-OFC infusion of 30 ng, but not 10 ng, of the D1 receptor agonist SKF 81297. Increasing dose of SKF 81297 to 100 ng also improved the impairment, but this effect was weaker than that of 30 ng, indicating that the SKF 81297 response was an inverted &quot;U&quot; pattern. The maximum SKF 81297 response (30 ng) was abolished by the D1 receptor antagonist SCH 23390. Thus, age-related impairment of reversal learning was due to a D1 receptor-mediated hypodopaminergic mechanism in the OFC. This finding provides direct evidence showing the involvement of OFC dopaminergic dysfunction in the development of cognitive inflexibility during the normal aging process.
Estrogens are important in the development, maintenance and physiology of the CNS. Several studies have shown their effects on the processing of hearing in both males and females, and these effects, in part, are thought to result from regulation of the transcription of genes via their classical estrogen receptor (ER) pathway. In order to understand the spatiotemporal changes that occur with age, we have studied the expression of ERs in the central auditory pathway in prepubertal and aged CBA mice with immunohistochemistry. In prepubertal mice a clear dichotomy was noted between the expression of ER and ER. ER-positive neurons were found in the metencephalon whereas the majority of ER was found in mesencephalon, diencephalon or the telencephalon. In the aged animals a different pattern of ER expression was found in terms of location and overall intensity. These age-induced changes in the expression pattern were generally not uniform, suggesting that region-specific mechanisms regulate the ERs' age-related expression. Neither the prepubertal nor the aged animals showed sex differences in any auditory structure. Our results demonstrate different age-dependent spatial and temporal changes in the pattern of expression of ER and ER, suggesting that each ER type may be involved in distinct roles across the central auditory pathway in different periods of maturation.
Perineuronal nets (PNNs) are specialized substructures of the neural extracellular matrix (ECM) which envelop the cell soma and proximal neurites of particular sets of neurons with apertures at sites of synaptic contact. Previous studies have shown that PNNs are enriched with chondroitin sulfate proteoglycans (CSPGs) and hyaluronan, however, a complete understanding of their precise molecular composition has been elusive. In addition, identifying which specific PNN components are critical to the formation of this structure has not been demonstrated. Previous work in our laboratory has demonstrated that the CSPG, aggrecan, is a key activity-dependent component of PNNs in vivo. In order to assess the contribution of aggrecan to PNN formation, we utilized cartilage matrix deficiency (cmd) mice, which lack aggrecan. Herein, we utilized an in vitro model, dissociated cortical culture, and an ex vivo model, organotypic slice culture, to specifically investigate the role aggrecan plays in PNN formation. Our work demonstrates that staining with the lectin, Wisteria floribunda agglutinin (WFA), considered a broad PNN marker, is eliminated in the absence of aggrecan, suggesting the loss of PNNs. However, in contrast, we found that the expression patterns of other PNN markers, including hyaluronan and proteoglycan link protein 1 (HAPLN1), tenascin-R, brevican, and hyaluronan are unaffected by the absence of aggrecan. Lastly, we determined that while all PNN components are bound to the surface in a hyaluronan-dependent manner, only HAPLN1 remains attached to the cell surface when neurons are treated with chondroitinase. These results suggest a different model for the molecular association of PNNs to the cell surface. Together our work has served to assess the contribution of aggrecan to PNN formation while providing key evidence concerning the molecular composition of PNNs in addition to determining how these components ultimately form PNNs.
Although most agree that 17-estradiol is neuroprotective via a variety of mechanisms, less is known about the role that biological sex plays in receptor-mediated estradiol neuroprotection. To address this issue we isolated primary cortical neurons from rat pups sorted by sex and assessed the ability of estradiol to protect the neurons from death induced by glutamate. Five-minute pretreatment with 10-50 nM 17-estradiol protected female but not male neurons from glutamate toxicity 24 h later. Both estrogen receptor alpha (ER) and estrogen receptor beta (ER) are expressed in these cultures. Experiments using an ER selective agonist or antagonist indicate that this receptor is important for neuroprotection in female cortical neurons. The ER selective agonist conveys a small degree of neuroprotection to both male and female cortical neurons. Interestingly, we found that 17 estradiol and the novel membrane estrogen receptor (mER) agonist STX, but not bovine serum albumin conjugated estradiol or the GPR30 agonist G1 were neuroprotective in both male and female neurons. Taken together these data highlight a role for ER in sexually dimorphic neuroprotection.
Heat shock protein 27 (HSP27), a low-molecular-weight HSP, is recognized as a molecular chaperone. In response to various stimuli, HSP27 expression is induced in the CNS. However, the exact roles of HSP27 in the CNS have not yet been clarified. It has been reported that interleukin (IL)-1 stimulates IL-6 synthesis in C6 glioma cells. In the present study, we investigated the role of HSP27 in the IL-1-induced IL-6 synthesis in C6 cells. IL-1 alone did not affect the levels of HSP27. The IL-1-induced IL-6 release in HSP27-downregulated C6 cells were enhanced compared with those in control siRNA-transfected cells. On the other hand, the IL-1-induced IL-6 release was significantly enhanced in C6 cells transfected with HSP27 than those in control cells in time- and dose-dependent manner. The IL-1-induced IL-6 release and the mRNA expression were markedly suppressed in C6 cells transfected with phosphorylated HSP27, while those in the cells transfected with unphosphorylated HSP27 were enhanced. In conclusion, these results strongly suggest that phosphorylated status of HSP27 has a switching role in the IL-1-induced IL-6 synthesis in C6 glioma cells.
In Syrian hamsters (Mesocricetus auratus), the expression of reproductive behavior requires the perception and discrimination of sexual odors. The behavioral response to these odors is mediated by a network of ventral forebrain nuclei, including the medial preoptic area (MPOA). The role of MPOA in male copulatory behavior has been well-studied, but less is known about the role of MPOA in appetitive aspects of male reproductive behavior. Furthermore, many previous studies that examined the role of MPOA in reproductive behavior have used large lesions that damaged other nuclei near MPOA or fibers of passage within MPOA, making it difficult to attribute post-lesion deficits in reproductive behavior to MPOA specifically. Thus, the current study used discrete, excitotoxic lesions of MPOA to test the role of this nucleus in opposite-sex odor preference and copulatory behavior in both sexually-nave and sexually-experienced males. Lesions of MPOA eliminated preference for volatile, opposite-sex odors in sexually-nave, but not sexually-experienced, males. When males were allowed to contact the sexual odors, however, preference for female odors remained intact. Surprisingly, lesions of MPOA caused severe copulatory deficits only in sexually-nave males, suggesting previous reports of copulatory deficits following MPOA lesions in sexually-experienced males were not due to damage to MPOA itself. Together, these results demonstrate that the role of MPOA in appetitive and consummatory aspects of reproductive behavior varies with the volatility of the sexual odors and the sexual experience of the male.
Redox processes associated with controlled generation of reactive oxygen species (ROS) by NADPH oxidase (Nox) add an essential level of regulation to signaling pathways underlying physiological processes. We evaluated the ROS generation in the main visual relays of the mammalian brain, namely the superior colliculus (SC) and the dorsal lateral geniculate nucleus (DLG), after ocular enucleation in adult rats. Dihydroethidium (DHE) oxidation revealed increased ROS generation in SC and DLG between 1 and 30 days postlesion. ROS generation was decreased by the Nox inhibitors diphenyleneiodonium chloride (DPI) and apocynin. Real-time PCR results revealed that Nox 2 was upregulated in both retinorecipient structures after deafferentation, whereas Nox 1 and Nox 4 were upregulated only in the SC. To evaluate the role of ROS in structural remodeling after the lesions, apocynin was given to enucleated rats and immunohistochemistry was conducted for markers of neuronal remodeling into SC and DLG. Immunohistochemical data showed that ocular enucleation produces an increase of neurofilament and microtubule-associated protein-2 immunostaining in both SC and DLG, which was markedly attenuated by apocynin treatment. Taken together, the findings of the present study suggest a novel role for Nox-induced ROS signaling in mediating neuronal remodeling in visual areas after ocular enucleation.
D2 and D4 dopamine receptors play an important role in cognitive functions in the prefrontal cortex and they are involved in the pathophysiology of neuropsychiatric disorders such as schizophrenia. The eventual effect of dopamine upon pyramidal neurons in the prefrontal cortex depends on which receptors are expressed in the different neuronal populations. Parvalbumin and calbindin mark two subpopulations of cortical GABAergic interneurons that differently innervate pyramidal cells. Recent hypotheses about schizophrenia hold that the root of the illness is a dysfunction of parvalbumin chandelier cells that produces disinhibition of pyramidal cells. In the present work we report double in situ hybridization histochemistry experiments to determine the prevalence of D2 receptor mRNA and D4 receptor mRNA in glutamatergic neurons, GABAergic interneurons and both parvalbumin and calbindin GABAergic subpopulations in monkey prefrontal cortex layer V. We found that around 54% of glutamatergic neurons express D2 mRNA and 75% express D4 mRNA, while GAD-positive interneurons express around 34% and 47% respectively. Parvalbumin cells mainly expressed D4 mRNA (65%) and less D2 mRNA (15-20%). Finally, calbindin cells expressed both receptors in similar proportions (37%). We hypothesized that D4 receptor could be a complementary target in designing new antipsychotics, mainly because of its predominance in parvalbumin interneurons.
Phosphatase and tensin homolog deleted on chromosome 10 (PTEN) is a tumor suppressor gene that regulates cell proliferation, differentiation and growth. It regulates neural and glioma stem/progenitor cell renewal and PTEN deletion can drive expansion of epithelial progenitors in the lung, enhancing their capacity for regeneration. Because it is expressed at relatively high levels in developing mammalian auditory hair cells we have analyzed the phenotype of the auditory epithelium in PTEN knock-out mice. PTEN(+/-) heterozygous littermates have only one functional copy of the gene and show clear evidence for haploinsufficiency in the organ of Corti. Auditory sensory epithelial progenitors withdraw from the cell cycle later than in wild-type animals and this is associated with increases in the numbers of both inner and outer hair cells. The cytoskeletal differentiation of hair cells was also affected. While many hair bundles on the hair cells appeared to develop normally, others were structurally disorganized and a number were missing, apparently lost after they had been formed. The results show that PTEN plays a novel role in regulating cell proliferation and differentiation of hair bundles in auditory sensory epithelial cells and suggest that PTEN signaling pathways may provide therapeutic targets for auditory sensory regeneration.
The high molecular weight isoforms (a and b) of microtubule-associate protein 2 (MAP2a,b) are widely believed to be specific markers for neuronal somata and dendrites. We analyzed and quantified MAP2a,b stained dendrites of the cerebellar molecular layer using a novel approach that segmented and 3D reconstructed them, and the results have been compared with those obtained by other methods, including single-cell reconstruction and analysis of electron micrographs. Our results show that the molecular layer dendritic volume fraction is lower than in the neocortex (10% compared to neocortical 29%). The low total volume fraction of dendrites in the molecular layer is best explained by the majority of the afferents to the dendrites being from the very densely packed parallel fibers, which allows the dendritic fields of individual neurons to be smaller and more compact than in the cerebral cortex. However, the MAP2a,b dendritic volume fraction is even lower (5.2%) than the total volume fraction of dendrites in the molecular layer (10%). Analysis of the material shows that this difference between the two results is due to the unexpected finding that there were few MAP2a,b stained Purkinje cell spiny dendrites.
Amyloid  protein (A) is considered to be partly responsible for the impairment of learning and memory in Alzheimer disease (AD). In addition, it has been found recently that type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM) is a risk factor for developing AD. One promising treatment for AD is using analogues for the insulin-release facilitating gut hormone glucagon-like peptide-1 (GLP-1) that has been developed as a T2DM therapy. GLP-1 has been shown to have neuroprotective properties. However, if GLP-1 can protect the late phase-long term potentiation (L-LTP) and related cognitive function against A-induced impairment it is still an open question. To further characterize the neuroprotective function of GLP-1 in the brain, we investigated the effects of i.c.v. injected Val(8)-GLP-1(7-36) on the A fragment-induced impairment of in vivo hippocampal L-LTP and spatial learning and memory in rats. The results showed that (1) A1-40 (5 nmol) injection did not affect the baseline field excitatory postsynaptic potentials (fEPSPs), but significantly suppressed multiple high frequency stimulation (HFS)-induced L-LTP in hippocampal CA1 region; (2) Val(8)-GLP-1(7-36) (0.05 pmol) administration alone did not affect the baseline synaptic transmission and the maintenance of L-LTP; (3) pretreatment with Val(8)-GLP-1(7-36) (0.05 pmol) effectively prevented A1-40-induced deficit of L-LTP; (4) i.c.v. injection of 5 nmol A1-40 resulted in a significant decline learning a spatial Morris water maze (MWM) test; (5) Val(8)-GLP-1(7-36) (0.05 pmol) administration alone did not affect spatial learning in this task, while pretreatment with Val(8)-GLP-1(7-36) effectively reversed the impairment of spatial learning and memory induced by A1-40. At the same time, the swim speeds and escape latencies of rats among all groups in the visible platform tests did not show any difference. These results suggest that increase of GLP-1 signalling in the brain may be a promising strategy to ameliorate the degenerative processes observed in AD.
Increasing evidence suggests that synaptic zinc, found within the axon terminals of a subset of glutamatergic neurons in the cerebral cortex, is intricately involved in cortical plasticity. Using the vibrissae/barrel cortex model of cortical plasticity, we have previously shown manipulations of sensory input leads to rapid changes in synaptic zinc levels within the corresponding regions of the somatotopic map in the cortex. Here, using electron microscopy, we show how some of these changes are mediated at the synaptic level. We found that the density of zincergic synapses increased significantly in layers II/III, IV, and V. In layers IV and V, this change occurred in the absence of a significant increase in excitatory synapse density, which seems to indicate that excitatory synapses, which previously did not contain synaptic zinc, begin to newly house zinc within its synaptic vesicles. Our results show that excitatory neurons can dynamically change the phenotype of the vesicular content of their synapses in response to changes in sensory input. Given the range of modulatory effects zinc can have on neurotransmission, such a change in the complement of vesicular contents presumably allow these neurons to utilize synaptic zinc to facilitate plasticity. Thus, our results further support the role of zinc as an active participant in the processes contributing to experience-dependent cortical plasticity.
Long-term (&gt;48 h) sleep deprivation (SD) reduces adult rat hippocampal cell proliferation and neurogenesis, yet reported effects of short-term (&lt;24 h) SD are inconsistent. We systematically assessed the effects of various durations of SD on adult rat hippocampal cell proliferation. Rats were sleep-deprived for 6, 12, 24, 36 or 48 h and injected with 5-bromo-2'-deoxyuridine (BrdU) 2 h before the end of SD. Immunolabeling for BrdU in the hippocampal subgranular zone increased significantly after 12 h SD but tended to decrease after 48 h SD relative to respective Controls. Surprisingly, SD did not alter immunolabeling for Ki67 protein (Ki67) or proliferating cell nuclear antigen (PCNA), two intrinsic cell proliferation markers. SD did not affect BrdU or Ki67 labeling in the subventricular zone, nor did it affect serum corticosterone levels. Because immunoreactivity for Ki67 and PCNA can identify cells in all phases of the 25 h cell cycle in adult rat hippocampus, whereas BrdU labels only cells in S-phase (9.5 h), this discrepancy suggests that 12 h SD might have affected cell cycle dynamics. A separate group of rats were injected with BrdU 10 h before the end of 12 h SD, which would allow some time for labeled cells to divide; the results were consistent with an acceleration of the timing of hippocampal progenitor cell division during 12 h SD. These results suggest that short-term (12 h) SD transiently produces more hippocampal progenitor cells via cell cycle acceleration, and confirm the importance of using multiple cell cycle markers or BrdU injection paradigms to assess potential changes in cell proliferation.
Both neurotensin (NT) and opioid agonists have been shown to induce antinociception in rodents after central administration. Besides, previous studies have revealed the existence of functional interactions between NT and opioid systems in the regulation of pain processing. We recently demonstrated that NTS1 receptors play a key role in the mediation of the analgesic effects of NT in long-lasting pain. In the present study, we therefore investigated whether NTS1 gene deletion affected the antinociceptive action of mu opioid drugs. To this end, pain behavioral responses to formalin were determined following systemic administration of morphine in both male and female NTS1 knockout mice. Acute injection of morphine (2 or 5 mg/kg) produced strong antinociceptive effects in both male and female wild-type littermates, with no significant sex differences. On the other hand, morphine analgesia was considerably reduced in NTS1-deficient mice of both sexes compared to their respective controls, indicating that the NTS1 receptor actively participates in mu opioid alleviating pain. By examining specifically the flinching, licking and biting nociceptive behaviors, we also showed that the functional crosstalk between NTS1 and mu opioid receptors influences the supraspinally-mediated behaviors. Interestingly, sexual dimorphic action of morphine-induced pain inhibition was found in NTS1 null mice in the formalin test, suggesting that the endogenous NT system interacts differently with the opioid network in male and female mice. Altogether, these results demonstrated that NTS1 receptor activation operates downstream to the opioidergic transmission and that NTS1-selective agonists combined with morphine may act synergistically to reduce persistent pain.
Phencyclidine (PCP) is a psychotomimetic drug that induces schizophrenia-like symptoms in healthy individuals and behavioral abnormalities with corresponding symptoms of schizophrenia in non-human animals. Our previous studies showed that systemically administered PCP produces tonic activation of neurons in the medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC) of rats and that this activation is mainly via excitatory inputs from regions outside the mPFC. Such long-lasting activation of PFC neurons is now considered to be a pivotal factor in PCP-induced behavioral abnormalities. Although our previous study identified the ventral hippocampus as a possible source of the excitatory inputs, it is not the only source innervating the mPFC. Several regions such as the thalamus also have monosynaptic projections to the mPFC. Recently, increased c-fos expression by systemic PCP administration was reported in the mediodorsal nucleus of the thalamus (MD) and the centromedial nucleus of the thalamus (CM), which have strong reciprocal innervations with the mPFC. However, few studies have reported effects of PCP on the firing activity of MD/CM neurons in unanesthetized animals. In the current study in freely moving rats, we examined effects of systemically administered PCP on the spontaneous firing activity of the MD/CM, after identifying the response properties of recorded neurons in social interaction with an unfamiliar partner. About 30% of MD/CM neurons recorded exhibited tonic excitation following systemic PCP administration, whereas only a few neurons (7%) were inhibited by PCP. The proportion of MD neurons activated by systemic PCP administration was about half of that in the mPFC. Although the proportion of neurons responsive to social interaction did not differ between the two regions (40%), neurons activated during social interaction in the mPFC (90%) were more likely to be affected by systemic PCP administration than those in the MD/CM (45%). These results suggest that neurons responsive to social interaction in the mPFC may be differently affected by PCP than those in the MD/CM.
The healthy brain appears to have an asymmetric dopamine distribution, with higher levels of dopamine in the left than in the right striatum. Here, we test the hypothesis that this neurochemical asymmetry renders the right striatum relatively more vulnerable to the effects of dopaminergic denervation in Parkinson's disease (PD). Using the pegboard dexterity test, we compared motor performance of both hands between healthy subjects (n=48), PD patients with predominantly right-hemispheric dopamine depletion (PD-RIGHT; n=83) and PD patients with more severe left-hemispheric dopamine depletion (PD-LEFT; n=103). All subjects were right-handed. After adjusting for hand-dominance effects, we found that PD-RIGHT patients exhibited a 55% larger difference between right and left dexterity scores than PD-LEFT patients. This effect could be attributed to greater motor dysfunction of the more-affected hand in PD-RIGHT patients, while the less-affected hand performed similarly in both groups. We conclude that the side of symptom onset affects motor dysfunction in PD, and suggest that the non-dominant right hemisphere may be more susceptible to dopaminergic denervation than the dominant left hemisphere.
Along with its ability to directly regulate gene expression, estradiol influences cell signaling and brain functions via rapid, membrane-initiated events. In the female rat striatum, estradiol activates membrane-localized estrogen receptors to influence synaptic neurotransmission, calcium channel activity, and behaviors related to motor control. Yet, the mechanism by which estradiol acts to rapidly affect striatal physiology has remained elusive. Here we find that membrane estrogen receptors (ERs) couple to the metabotropic glutamate receptors mGluR5 and mGluR3, providing the framework to understand how membrane estrogen receptors affect striatal function. Using CREB phosphorylation as a downstream measure of ER/mGluR activation, membrane-localized estrogen receptor  (ER) activates mGluR5 signaling to mediate mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK)-dependent CREB phosphorylation. Further, ER and estrogen receptor  (ER) activate mGluR3 to attenuate L-type calcium channel-dependent CREB signaling. Interestingly, while this fundamental mechanism of ER/mGluR signaling was initially characterized in hippocampal neurons, estrogen receptors in striatal neurons are paired with a different set of mGluRs, resulting in the potential to functionally isolate membrane-initiated estrogen signaling across brain regions via use of specific mGluR modulators. These results provide both a mechanism for the rapid actions of estrogens within the female striatum, as well as demonstrate that estrogen receptors can interact with a more diverse set of surface membrane receptors than previously recognized.
The tachykinin NK3 receptor (NK3R) is a G-protein coupled receptor that is activated, internalized, and trafficked to the nuclei of magnocellular neurons in the paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus (PVN) in response to acute hyperosmolarity. The lack of information on the nuclear import pathway raises concerns about the physiological role of nuclear NK3R. NK3R contains a nuclear localizing sequence (NLS) and this raises the possibility that importins are involved in transport of NK3R through the nuclear pore complex. The following experiments utilized: (1) co-immunoprecipitation to determine if NK3R is associated with importin -1 following activation in response to acute hyperosmolarity in vivo, and (2) immuno-neutralization of importin -1 in vitro to determine if nuclear transport of NK3R was blocked. Rats were given an i.v. injection of hypertonic saline (2 M) and 10 min after the infusion, the PVN was removed and homogenized. Importin -1 co-immunoprecipitated with the NK3R following treatment with 2 M NaCl, but not following isotonic saline treatment. Immuno-neutralization of importin -1 decreased the transport of NK3R into the nuclei in a time dependent fashion. The results indicate that in response to acute hyperosmotic challenge, NK3R associates with importin -1 which enables the nuclear transport of NK3R. This is the first in vivo study linking importin -1 and the nuclear transport of a G protein coupled receptor, the NK3R, in brain.
In diet-induced obesity, hypothalamic inflammation is triggered as an outcome of prolonged exposure to dietary fats. Toll-like receptor 4 (TLR4) activation plays a central role in this process, inducing endoplasmic reticulum stress and activating inflammatory cytokine gene transcription. Although saturated fatty acids can induce endoplasmic reticulum stress in the hypothalamus, it is unknown whether inflammatory cytokines alone can activate this mechanism. Here, rats were treated with TNF- or lyposaccharide (LPS) and endoplasmic reticulum stress and unfolded protein response were evaluated by immunoblot and polymerase chain reaction (PCR). Activation of TLR4 by LPS was capable of inducing a complete endoplasmic reticulum stress and unfolded protein response through the PERK/eIF2 and IRE1/XBP1 pathways. Conversely, TNF-, injected either locally or systemically, was unable to induce a complete program of unfolded protein response, although the activation of endoplasmic reticulum stress was achieved to a certain degree. Thus, in the hypothalamus, the isolated action of TNF- is insufficient to produce the activation of a complete program of unfolded protein response.
Noradrenaline, essential for the modulation of memory, is released in various parts of the brain from nerve terminals controlled by the locus coeruleus (LoC). Noradrenaline release consequent upon input from higher brain areas also occurs within the LoC itself. We examined the effect of noradrenaline on adrenergic receptors in the LoC on memory processing, using colored bead discrimination learning in the young domestic chick. We have shown previously that the release of noradrenaline in the hippocampus and cortex (mesopallium) is essential for acquisition and consolidation of short-term to intermediate and to long-term memory. Noradrenaline release within the LoC is triggered by the glutamatergic input from the forebrain. Inhibition by LoC injection of NMDA or AMPA receptor antagonists is rescued by injection of 2-and 3-adrenoceptor (AR) agonists in the hippocampus. We show that inhibition of 2A-ARs by BRL44408 in the LoC up to 30 min post-training consolidates weakly-reinforced learning. Conversely activation of 2A-ARs in the LoC at the times of consolidation between short-term and intermediate and long-term memory caused memory loss, which is likely to be due to a decreased release of noradrenaline within these two time windows. The 2A-AR antagonist will block presynaptic inhibitory receptors leading to an increase in extracellular noradrenaline. This interpretation is supported by the actions of noradrenaline uptake blockers that produce the same memory outcome. BRL44408 in the mesopallium also caused memory enhancement. 2-ARs are important in the first time window, whereas 1-, 2C-and 3-ARs are important in the second time window. The results reveal that for successful memory formation noradrenaline release is necessary within the LoC as well as in other brain regions, at the time of consolidation of memory from short-term to intermediate and from intermediate to long-term memory.
Endogenous opioid peptides (EOP) and dopamine (DA)-derived salsolinol are implicated in the suckling-induced prolactin surge. The aim of this study was to investigate the relationship between the opioidergic and salsolinergic activity in the mediobasal hypothalamus of nursing sheep. The sheep were infused intracerebroventricularly with opioid receptors antagonists: naloxone (all types of receptors, n=6); naloxonazine ( receptor, n=6) or the vehicle (control, n=6) in a series of five 30-min infusions (60 g/60 l) from 10:00 to 15:00, at 30-min intervals. The period of the experiment included the non-suckling (10:00-12:30) and suckling (12:30-15:00) periods. Simultaneously, a push-pull perfusion of the infundibular nucleus/median eminence was performed in every sheep to study the dopaminergic system activity. Blood samples were also collected at 10-minute intervals to determine plasma prolactin concentration. Both the mean perfusate salsolinol and plasma prolactin concentrations were higher during the suckling vs. non-suckling (P&lt;0.001) period in the control. The perfusate DA concentration was below the detection limit in this group. Treatment with either naloxone or naloxonazine significantly (P&lt;0.01) diminished plasma prolactin concentration, as compared with the controls and blocked the prolactin surge during suckling. In drug-infused sheep, the perfusate salsolinol concentration was below the detection limit but the increased DA and its metabolite 3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid concentrations were observed. In conclusion, the stimulatory action of EOP on prolactin secretion in nursing females is mediated, at least in part, by salsolinol, and the ligands for  opioid receptor may be the primary factors of this relationship, especially with respect to the suckling-induced prolactin surge.
The daily light dark cycle is the most salient entraining factor for the circadian system. However, in modern society, darkness at night is vanishing as light pollution steadily increases. The impact of brighter nights on wild life ecology and human physiology is just now being recognized. In the present study, we tested the possible detrimental effects of dim light exposure on the regulation of circadian rhythms, using CD1 mice housed in light/dim light (LdimL, 300 lux:20 lux) or light/dark (LD, 300 lux:1 lux) conditions. We first examined the expression of clock genes in the suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN), the locus of the principal brain clock, in the animals of the LD and LdimL groups. Under the entrained condition, there was no difference in PER1 peak expression between the two groups, but at the trough of the PER 1 rhythm, there was an increase in PER1 in the LdimL group, indicating a decrease in the amplitude of the PER1 rhythm. After a brief light exposure (30 min, 300 lux) at night, the light-induced expression of mPer1 and mPer2 genes was attenuated in the SCN of LdimL group. Next, we examined the behavioral rhythms by monitoring wheel-running activity to determine whether the altered responses in the SCN of LdimL group have behavioral consequence. Compared to the LD controls, the LdimL group showed increased daytime activity. After being released into constant darkness, the LdimL group displayed shorter free-running periods. Furthermore, following the light exposure, the phase shifting responses were smaller in the LdimL group. The results indicate that nighttime dim light exposure can cause functional changes of the circadian system, and suggest that altered circadian function could be one of the mechanisms underlying the adverse effects of light pollution on wild life ecology and human physiology.
The concept that intestinal microbial composition not only affects the health of the gut, but also influences centrally-mediated systems involved in mood, is supported by a growing body of literature. Despite the emergent interest in brain-gut communication and its possible role in the pathogenesis of psychiatric disorders such as depression, particularly subtypes with accompanying gastrointestinal (GI) symptoms, there are few studies dedicated to the search for therapeutic solutions that address both central and peripheral facets of these illnesses. This study aims to assess the potential benefits of the probiotic Bifidobacterium infantis in the rat maternal separation (MS) model, a paradigm that has proven to be of value in the study of stress-related GI and mood disorders. MS adult rat offsprings were chronically treated with bifidobacteria or citalopram and subjected to the forced swim test (FST) to assess motivational state. Cytokine concentrations in stimulated whole blood samples, monoamine levels in the brain, and central and peripheral hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis measures were also analysed. MS reduced swim behavior and increased immobility in the FST, decreased noradrenaline (NA) content in the brain, and enhanced peripheral interleukin (IL)-6 release and amygdala corticotrophin-releasing factor mRNA levels. Probiotic treatment resulted in normalization of the immune response, reversal of behavioral deficits, and restoration of basal NA concentrations in the brainstem. These findings point to a more influential role for bifidobacteria in neural function, and suggest that probiotics may have broader therapeutic applications than previously considered.
Genome-wide association studies have underscored the importance of the clustered neuronal nicotinic acetylcholine receptor (nAChR) subunit genes with respect to nicotine dependence as well as lung cancer susceptibility. CHRNB4, which encodes the nAChR 4 subunit, plays a major role in the molecular mechanisms that govern nicotine withdrawal. Thus, elucidating how expression of the 4 gene is regulated is critical for understanding the pathophysiology of nicotine addiction. We previously identified a CA box regulatory element, (5'-CCACCCCT-3') critical for 4 promoter activity in vitro. We further demonstrated that a 2.3-kb fragment of the 4 promoter region containing the 5'-CCACCCCT-3' regulatory element in the 4 gene promoter (CA box) is capable of directing cell-type specific expression of a reporter gene to a myriad of brain regions that endogenously express the 4 gene. To test the hypothesis that the CA box is critical for 4 promoter activity in vivo, transgenic animals expressing a mutant form of the 4 promoter were generated. Reporter gene expression was not detected in any tissue or cell type at embryonic day 18.5 (ED 18.5). Similarly, we observed drastically reduced reporter gene expression at postnatal day 30 (PD30) when compared to wild type (WT) transgenic animals. Finally, we demonstrated that CA box mutation results in decreased interaction of the transcription factor Sp1 with the mutant 4 promoter. Taken together these results demonstrate that the CA box is critical for 4 promoter activity in vivo.
The insular cortex (IC) processes gustatory and visceral information, which functionally correlate to feeding behavior. Insulin, a well-known hormone controlling glucose metabolism, is released by elevation of blood glucose concentration following feeding behavior. The IC expresses dense insulin receptors and receives projection from the hypothalamus, which monitors changes in glucose concentration. Therefore, it is likely that insulin modulates neural properties in the IC. However, little is known about the effects of insulin on electrophysiological properties of the neocortex including the IC. To explore the effects of insulin on subthreshold responses and action potential properties in the IC, intracellular recording with sharp glass electrodes was performed from IC pyramidal cells using slice preparations. Although application of insulin (100 nM) had little effect on the resting membrane potential, input resistance and rheobase, insulin significantly increased the frequency of repetitive spike firing in response to a long depolarizing current pulse injection: the slope of the frequency-current curve was increased from 23.72.3 Hz/nA to 29.53.4 Hz/nA. Insulin slightly decreased the action potential threshold without affecting the amplitude of medium-duration and slow afterhyperpolarization (sAHP) s. The insulin-induced facilitation of repetitive spike firing was dose-dependent and blocked by pre-application of 200 nM lavendustin A, a tyrosine kinase inhibitor. Moreover, when combined with 200 nM wortmannin, a phosphoinositide 3-kinase (PI3-K) inhibitor, or 500 nM deguelin, an inhibitor of protein kinase B (PKB/Akt) downstream of PI3-K, insulin failed to increase the frequency of repetitive spike firing. In contrast, co-application of insulin and (10 M) PD 98059, an inhibitor of mitogen activated protein kinase (MAPK), exerted facilitation of repetitive spike firing. These results suggest that acute insulin-induced facilitation of firing frequency is at least partially induced by hyperpolarizing effects on the action potential threshold, and that this facilitation is induced by activation of PI3-K but not MAPK cascade.
Early life adversity or parental neglect is linked to the development of a number of psychiatric illnesses, including major depression and substance use disorder. These two disorders are often comorbid and characterized by anhedonia, defined as the reduced ability to experience pleasure or reward. The aim of the present study was to determine the effects of neonatal maternal separation in Long Evans rats, a model of early life stress, on anhedonia under baseline conditions and in response to drug and stress exposure during adulthood. Three hours of daily maternal separation from postnatal day 1 to 14 led to marked decreases in arched-back nursing, licking, and grooming of pups by their dams. In adulthood, brain reward function was assessed using intracranial self-stimulation of the lateral hypothalamus. Lowered current thresholds derived from this procedure are interpreted as reward-enhancing effects, whereas elevations in thresholds are an operational measure of anhedonia. Maternally separated rats did not exhibit anhedonia under baseline conditions compared with non-handled controls but exhibited a greater reward-enhancing effect of acute amphetamine administration. Acute social defeat produced anhedonia in non-handled controls, but not in maternally separated rats. Conversely, control rats habituated to 7 days of repeated social defeat, whereas maternally separated rats developed an increased anhedonic response to the repeated stressor. One week after termination of stress exposure, maternally separated rats still exhibited an increased reward-enhancing effect of acute amphetamine administration compared with non-handled controls, regardless of prior social defeat experience. These data indicate that early life stress increases the reward-enhancing properties of amphetamine, protects against the anhedonic effects of acute stress exposure, and exacerbates the anhedonic response to repeated stress. Thus, early life stress may increase an individual's vulnerability to depressive or addictive disorders when confronted with stress or drug challenge in adulthood.
Activated extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK) signaling mediated plasticity-related gene transcription has been proposed for one possible mechanism by which 17-estradiol (E2) enhances synaptic plasticity and memory. Because activated ERK also enhances plasticity-related mRNA translation in the dendrites of neurons, we sought to determine the effects of E2 on activation of ERK, phosphorylation of translation initiation factors, and dendritic mRNA translation in hippocampal neurons. Acute E2 application resulted in a rapid, transient increase in phosphorylation of translation initiation factors, ribosomal protein (S6) and eIF4E binding protein1 (4EBP1), in an activated ERK-dependent manner. Since phosphorylation of these translation factors enhance mRNA translation, we tested E2's effect on dendritic mRNA translation. Using a green fluorescent protein (GFP)-based dendritic mRNA translation reporter (reporter plasmid construct consisted of a GFP gene fused to the 3' untranslated region (UTR) from CAMKII, which contains dendritic resident mRNA targeting and mRNA translational regulatory elements) we showed that E2 treatment resulted in increased somatic and dendritic GFP mRNA translation in GFP-reporter transfected hippocampal neurons. Translation inhibitor anisomycin and ERK inhibitor U0126 blocked E2 effects. Taken together, our results provide a novel mechanism by which E2 may trigger local protein synthesis of -CaMKII in the dendrites, which is necessary for modulation of synaptic plasticity.
Ectopic neurons are often found in the brains of fetal alcohol spectrum disorders (FASD) and fetal alcohol syndrome (FAS) patients, suggesting that alcohol exposure impairs neuronal cell migration. Although it has been reported that alcohol decreases the speed of neuronal cell migration, little is known about whether alcohol also affects the turning of neurons. Here we show that ethanol exposure inhibits the turning of cerebellar granule cells in vivo and in vitro. First, in vivo studies using P10 mice demonstrated that a single intraperitoneal injection of ethanol not only reduces the number of turning granule cells but also alters the mode of turning at the EGL-ML border of the cerebellum. Second, in vitro analysis using microexplant cultures of P0-P3 mouse cerebella revealed that ethanol directly reduces the frequency of spontaneous granule cell turning in a dose-dependent manner. Third, the action of ethanol on the frequency of granule cell turning was significantly ameliorated by stimulating Ca(2+) and cGMP signaling or by inhibiting cAMP signaling. Taken together, these results indicate that ethanol affects the frequency and mode of cerebellar granule cell turning through alteration of the Ca(2+) and cyclic nucleotide signaling pathways, suggesting that the abnormal allocation of neurons found in the brains of FASD and FSA patients results, at least in part, from impaired turning of immature neurons by alcohol.
PKC-theta (PKC-), a member of the novel protein kinase C family (nPKC), regulates a wide variety of functions in the periphery. However, its presence and role in the CNS has remained largely unknown. Recently, we demonstrated the presence of PKC- in the arcuate hypothalamic nucleus (ARC) and knockdown of PKC- from the ARC protected mice from developing diet-induced obesity. Another isoform of the nPKC group, PKC-delta (PKC-), is expressed in several non-hypothalamic brain sites including the thalamus and hippocampus. Although PKC- has been implicated in regulating hypothalamic glucose homeostasis, its distribution in the hypothalamus has not previously been described. In the current study, we used immunohistochemistry to examine the distribution of PKC- and - immunoreactivity in rat and mouse hypothalamus. We found PKC- immunoreactive neurons in several hypothalamic nuclei including the ARC, lateral hypothalamic area, perifornical area and tuberomammillary nucleus. PKC- immunoreactive neurons were found in the paraventricular and supraoptic nuclei. Double-label immunohistochemisty in mice expressing green fluorescent protein either with the long form of leptin receptor (LepR-b) or in orexin (ORX) neurons indicated that PKC- is highly colocalized in lateral hypothalamic ORX neurons but not in lateral hypothalamic LepR-b neurons. Double-label immunohistochemistry in oxytocin-enhanced yellow fluorescent protein mice or arginine vasopressin-enhanced green fluorescent protein (AVP-EGFP) transgenic rats revealed a high degree of colocalization of PKC- within paraventricular and supraoptic oxytocin neurons but not the vasopressinergic neurons. We conclude that PKC- and - are expressed in different hypothalamic neuronal populations.
Previous kinematic and kinetic studies revealed that, when accomplishing a whole-body pointing task beyond arm's length, a modular and flexible organization could represent a robust solution to control simultaneously target pointing and equilibrium maintenance. Here, we investigated the underlying mechanisms that produce such a coordinative kinematic structure. We monitored the activity of a large number of muscles spread throughout subjects' bodies while they performed pointing movements beyond arm's length, either with or without imposition of postural or pointing constraints. Analyses revealed that muscle signals lied on a tri-dimensional hyper-plane and were temporally organized according to a triphasic pattern (three components, each one exhibiting one single peak of activation and the peaks being consecutive in time). Such a functional muscle synergy was found to be robust across conditions. Also the activities of the separate groups of muscles acting at each body joint resulted tri-dimensional. In particular, those associated with the muscles of the lower-body joints (ankle, knee and hip) always presented the three sequences in all conditions. However, a slightly different organization was found for the muscle activities of the upper-limb, suggesting a moderate level of flexibility of the activity of such muscles to movement constraints. The present findings link together, in a hierarchical view of motor control, the joint coordination characterizing whole-body pointing movements with a basic muscle synergistic organization, namely a triphasic pattern.




Synucleins are a vertebrate-specific family of abundant neuronal proteins. They comprise three closely related members, -, -, and -synuclein. -Synuclein has been the focus of intense attention since mutations in it were identified as a cause for familial Parkinson's disease. Despite their disease relevance, the normal physiological function of synucleins has remained elusive. To address this, we generated and characterized -synuclein knockout mice, which lack all members of this protein family. Deletion of synucleins causes alterations in synaptic structure and transmission, age-dependent neuronal dysfunction, as well as diminished survival. Abrogation of synuclein expression decreased excitatory synapse size by 30% both in vivo and in vitro, revealing that synucleins are important determinants of presynaptic terminal size. Young synuclein null mice show improved basic transmission, whereas older mice show a pronounced decrement. The late onset phenotypes in synuclein null mice were not due to a loss of synapses or neurons but rather reflect specific changes in synaptic protein composition and axonal structure. Our results demonstrate that synucleins contribute importantly to the long-term operation of the nervous system and that alterations in their physiological function could contribute to the development of Parkinson's disease.
Memory for inconsequential events fades, unless these happen before or after other novel or surprising events. However, our understanding of the neurobiological mechanisms of novelty-enhanced memory persistence is mainly restricted to aversive or fear-associated memories. We now outline an &quot;everyday appetitive&quot; behavioral model to examine whether and how unrelated novelty facilitates the persistence of spatial memory coupled to parallel electrophysiological studies of the persistence of long-term potentiation (LTP). Across successive days, rats were given one trial per day to find food in different places and later had to recall that day's location. This task is both hippocampus and NMDA receptor dependent. First, encoding with low reward induced place memory that decayed over 24 h; in parallel, weak tetanization of CA1 synapses in brain slices induced early-LTP fading to baseline. Second, novelty exploration scheduled 30 min after this weak encoding resulted in persistent place memory; similarly, strong tetanization--analogous to novelty--both induced late-LTP and rescued early- into late-LTP on an independent but convergent pathway. Third, hippocampal dopamine D1/D5 receptor blockade or protein synthesis inhibition within 15 min of exploration prevented persistent place memory and blocked late-LTP. Fourth, symmetrically, when spatial memory was encoded using strong reward, this memory persisted for 24 h unless encoding occurred under hippocampal D1/D5 receptor blockade. Novelty exploration before this encoding rescued the drug-induced memory impairment. Parallel effects were observed in LTP. These findings can be explained by the synaptic tagging and capture hypothesis.
Astrocytes are nonneuronal cells in the brain (glia) that do not generate electrical impulses but communicate by chemical signaling. This communication can be observed under a microscope with fluorescent calcium indicators that glow more brightly when the concentration of calcium increases inside the cell. Astrocytes release adenosine 5'-triphosphate and other cell signaling molecules that excite membrane receptors on other astrocytes to cause an increase in intracellular calcium in the recipient cell. Many of the substances released by astrocytes also excite neurons, and astrocytes have on their own cell membrane many of the same neurotransmitter receptors used by neurons to communicate across synapses. This allows astrocytes to respond to neural impulse activity, communicate among other astrocytes, and influence neuronal communication by taking up or releasing neurotransmitters from synapses.
Wnt5a is thought to propel cortical axons down the corticospinal tract and through the corpus callosum by repulsive mechanisms. We cultured dissociated early postnatal cortical neurons from hamsters and exposed them to a gradient of Wnt5a as a model for studying the mechanism of Wnt5a effects. Turning assays indicated that cortical axons were repelled away from a point source of Wnt5a. Surprisingly, during the 1-hour turning assay, axons exposed to Wnt5a also increased their growth rates by almost 50%. Ryk receptors but not Frizzled (Fz) receptors were required for Wnt5a-promoted axon outgrowth, whereas both Ryk and Fz receptors were required for repulsive growth-cone turning. Both Ryk and Fz receptors mediated calcium (Ca(2+)) signaling, which is required for axon outgrowth and repulsive turning. Treatments with pharmacological inhibitors revealed that distinct Ca(2+) signaling mechanisms were involved in Wnt5a-dependent axon outgrowth versus repulsive guidance. Ca(2+) release from intracellular stores through inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate receptors was required for Wnt5a-induced axon outgrowth but not for repulsive turning. In contrast, Ca(2+) entry through transient receptor potential channels was required for both repulsive growth-cone turning and Wnt5a-increased axon outgrowth. Taken together, these results showed that a guidance cue can induce increased rates of axon outgrowth simultaneously with repulsive guidance and may provide an understanding of how cortical axons may be repelled down the spinal cord in vivo. Moreover, we demonstrate that previously unidentified Wnt signaling pathways differentially mediate these growth-cone behaviors.
Engineered tissue strategies for central nervous system (CNS) repair have the potential for localizing treatment using a wide variety of cells or growth factors. However, these strategies are often limited by their ability to address only one aspect of the injury. Here we report the development of a novel alginate construct that acts as a multifunctional tissue scaffold for CNS repair, and as a localized growth factor delivery vehicle. We show that the surface of this alginate construct acts as an optimal growth environment for neural progenitor cell (NPC) attachment, survival, migration, and differentiation. Importantly, we show that tailor-made alginate constructs containing brain-derived neurotrophic factor or neurotrophin-3 differentially direct lineage fates of NPCs and may therefore be useful in treating a wide variety of injuries. It is this potential for directed differentiation of a scaffold prior to implantation at the injury site that we explore here.

Dysregulated inflammation in cystic fibrosis (CF) is attributed to an altered production of inflammatory mediators derived from polyunsaturated lipids. In comparison to the arachidonic acid (AA) cascade, little is known about the modulation of docosahexaenoic acid (DHA) membrane release. We compared data on neutrophil DHA- and AA- release from both control (CT) and patients with CF using [3H]AA or [14C]DHA as a markers for, respectively, AA and DHA- release. Granulocyte-macrophage-colony stimulating factor stimulated DHA release from CT, but not CF, neutrophils. Comparison showed that both [14C]DHA and [3H]AA liberated after stimulation was higher in CT than in CF neutrophils. Since bioactive mediators derived from DHA are resolving factors and those derived from AA are both pro- and anti- inflammatory, these results suggest that CF is associated with a reduction of the release of PUFA-precursors of lipooxygenated resolving mediators. This leads to the hypothesis that defects in the resolving factors production could contribute to the inflammatory dysregulated processes in CF. Furthermore, the methodology used may help to improve knowledge on the regulation and resolution of inflammation.


The roles of T lymphocytes in the central nervous system (CNS) are diverse; their roles in the injured CNS have been reported to be both detrimental and advantageous. Hence, an investigation of the effects of specific subsets of T cells on neurons may provide an insight into the interaction between the nervous system and the immune system. In the present study, we demonstrate that a specific subset of T lymphocytes enhanced neurite outgrowth in vitro. When cultured T helper type 1 (Th1) cells were co-cultured with cortical neurons, neurite outgrowth from neurons was enhanced; however, the same was not observed when Th2 or nave T cells were used. We observed that the promotion of neurite outgrowth by Th1 cells was completely inhibited by anti-interferon  (IFN-) neutralizing antibody, but that IFN- did not directly promote neurite growth. Furthermore, experiments using knockout mice revealed that semaphorin 4A (Sema4A) but not Sema7A was required for the effect produced by Th1 cells. These results demonstrate that Sema4A and IFN- expressed in Th1 cells play a critical role in enhancing neurite outgrowth from cortical neurons.
A new family of cytokine IL-32 has been implicated in pro-inflammatory immune responses several human diseases such as rheumatoid arthritis, inflammatory bowel diseases and vasculitis. In this study, we investigated the role of IL-32 in the inflammatory activation of cultured rat primary astrocytes. Treatment of IL-32 increased ROS production and augmented lipopolysaccharide-induced increased production of nitric oxide as well as the expression of iNOS. IL-32 also induced the expression of MMP-9 but not MMP-2 in rat primary astrocytes. The increased expression of these inflammatory mediators was accompanied by the increased mRNA expression encoding iNOS, MMP-9 and TNF-. ERK1/2 and p38, two essential regulators of pro-inflammatory signaling in rat primary astrocytes were activated by IL-32 as evidenced by increased phosphorylation. The results from the present study suggest that IL-32 may play a role in the regulation of neuroinflammatory responses in several neurological disease conditions such as ischemia and Alzheimer's disease.

Methylmercury is a widely distributed environmental toxicant with detrimental effects on the developing and adult nervous system. Due to its accumulation in the food chain, chronic exposure to methylmercury via consumption of fish and sea mammals is still a major concern for human health, especially developmental exposure that may lead to neurological alterations, including cognitive and motor dysfunctions. Mercury-induced neurotoxicity and the identification of the underlying mechanisms has been a main focus of research in the neurotoxicology field. Three major mechanisms have been identified as critical in methylmercury-induced cell damage including (i) disruption of calcium homeostasis, (ii) induction of oxidative stress via overproduction of reactive oxygen species or reduction of antioxidative defenses and (iii) interactions with sulfhydryl groups. In vivo and in vitro studies have provided solid evidence for the occurrence of neural cell death, as well as cytoarchitectural alterations in the nervous system after exposure to methylmercury. Signaling cascades leading to cell death induced by methylmercury involve the release of mitochondrial factors, such as cytochrome c and AIF with subsequent caspase-dependent or -independent apoptosis, respectively; induction of calcium-dependent proteases calpains; interaction with lysosomes leading to release of cathepsins. Interestingly, several pathways can be activated in parallel, depending on the cell type. In this paper, we provide an overview of recent findings on methylmercury-induced neurotoxicity and cell death pathways that have been described in neural and endocrine cell systems.
The cell adhesion molecule L1 is implicated in several processes in the developing and adult nervous system. Intracellular trafficking of L1 is important for cell migration, neurite growth and adhesion. We demonstrate here that L1 is ubiquitinated at the plasma membrane and in early endosomes. Mono-ubiquitination regulates L1 intracellular trafficking by enhancing its lysosomal degradation. We propose that L1's ubiquitination might be an additional mechanism to control its re-appearance at the cell surface thereby influencing processes like neurite growth and cell adhesion.
The development and application of single neuron electroporation largely advanced the use of traditional genetics in investigations of the central nervous system. This quick and accurate manipulation of the brain at individual neuron level allowed the gain and loss of functional analyses of different genes and/or proteins. This manuscript reviewed the development of the technique and discussed some technical aspects in practical manipulations. Then the manuscript summarized the potential applications with this technique. Last but not least, the technique showed prospective future when combined with other modern methods in neuroscience research.
Amyloid- (A) peptide is thought to have a significant role in the progressive memory loss observed in patients with Alzheimer disease and inhibits synaptic plasticity in animal models of learning. We previously demonstrated that brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) is critical for synaptic AMPA receptor delivery in an in vitro model of eyeblink classical conditioning. Here, we report that acquisition of conditioned responses was significantly attenuated by bath application of oligomeric (200 nm), but not fibrillar, A peptide. Western blotting revealed that BDNF protein expression during conditioning is significantly reduced by treatment with oligomeric A, as were phosphorylation levels of cAMP-response element-binding protein (CREB), Ca(2+)/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II (CaMKII), Ca(2+)/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase IV (CaMKIV), and ERK. However, levels of PKA and PKC/ were unaffected, as was PDK-1. Protein localization studies using confocal imaging indicate that oligomeric A, but not fibrillar or scrambled forms, suppresses colocalization of GluR1 and GluR4 AMPA receptor subunits with synaptophysin, indicating that trafficking of these subunits to synapses during the conditioning procedure is blocked. In contrast, coapplication of BDNF with oligomeric A significantly reversed these findings. Interestingly, a tolloid-like metalloproteinase in turtle, tTLLs (turtle tolloid-like protein), which normally processes the precursor proBDNF into mature BDNF, was found to degrade oligomeric A into small fragments. These data suggest that an A-induced reduction in BDNF, perhaps due to interference in the proteolytic conversion of proBDNF to BDNF, results in inhibition of synaptic AMPA receptor delivery and suppression of the acquisition of conditioning.
Physiological and lesion studies have shown that the anterior inferior temporal (IT) cortex (aITC) is involved in the color vision of macaque monkeys. However, some functional imaging studies using awake monkeys contradicted the involvement of aITC in color vision. Thus, in most of the imaging studies, cortical activation has been observed during a fixation task. However, because the neuronal activity of aITC is highly affected by the behavioral task, it is desirable to investigate cortical activity during a color discrimination task to determine the functional role of aITC in the color vision of macaque monkeys. In this study, we investigated the cortical activity of aITC of macaque monkeys during color discrimination by positron emission tomography. Two monkeys were trained in a color discrimination task. Cortical areas involved in color processing were investigated by comparing activities during the color discrimination and lever release tasks. In addition to area V4 and the posterior IT cortex (pITC), we found color-related activities in the anterior IT gyrus. Consistent activation was observed in the region posterior to the anterior medial temporal sulcus (AMTS), although the exact location and the size of activations differed between monkeys and hemispheres. We also found color-related activities in the anterior portion of the superior temporal sulcus (STS), suggesting its involvement in the color vision. The present results revealed that aITC is involved in the color vision of macaque monkeys by a functional imaging technique.
To clarify whether the neural pathways concerning color processing are the same for natural objects, for artifacts objects and for non-objects we examined brain responses measured with functional magnetic resonance imaging (FMRI) during a covert naming task including the factors color (color vs. black&amp;white (B&amp;W)) and stimulus type (natural vs. artifacts vs. non-objects). Our results indicate that the superior parietal lobule and precuneus (BA 7) bilaterally, the right hippocampus and the right fusifom gyrus (V4) make part of a network responsible for color processing both for natural objects and artifacts, but not for non-objects. When color objects (both natural and artifacts) were contrasted with color non-objects we observed activations in the right parahippocampal gyrus (BA 35/36), the superior parietal lobule (BA 7) bilaterally, the left inferior middle temporal region (BA 20/21) and the inferior and superior frontal regions (BA 10/11/47). These additional activations suggest that colored objects recruit brain regions that are related to visual semantic information/retrieval and brain regions related to visuo-spatial processing. Overall, the results suggest that color information is an attribute that can improve object recognition (behavioral results) and activate a specific neural network related to visual semantic information that is more extensive than for B&amp;W objects during object recognition.
Despite the importance of myelin for the rapid conduction of action potentials, the molecular bases of oligodendrocyte differentiation and central nervous system (CNS) myelination are still incompletely understood. Recent results have greatly advanced this understanding, identifying new transcriptional regulators of myelin gene expression, elucidating vital roles for microRNAs in controlling myelination, and clarifying the extracellular signaling mechanisms that orchestrate the development of myelin. Studies have also demonstrated an unexpected level of plasticity of myelin in the adult CNS. These recent advances provide new insight into how remyelination may be stimulated in demyelinating disorders such as multiple sclerosis.




Biomedical engineering is clearly present in modern neuroendocrinology, and indeed has come to embrace it in many respects. First, we briefly review the origins of endocrinology until neuroendocrinology, after a long saga, was established in the 1950's decade with quantified results made possible by the radioimmunoassay technique (RIA), a development contributed by the physical sciences. However, instrumentation was only one face of the quantification process, for mathematical models aiding in the study of negative feedback loops, first rather shyly and now at a growing rate, became means building the edifice of mathematical neuroendocrinology while computer assisted techniques help unravel the associated genetic aspects or the nature itself of endocrine bursts by numerical deconvolution analysis. To end the note, attention is called to the pleiotropic characteristics of neuroendocrinology, which keeps branching off almost endlessly as bioengineering does too.
Fibrates are activators of peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor (PPAR) . Pretreatment with fibrates has been shown to protect brain against ischemia in mice. We hypothesized that fibrates elevate superoxide dismutase (SOD) levels in the brain microvessels (BMVs). BMVs were isolated from male C57BL/6 and PPAR null mice that had been treated with fenofibrate or gemfibrozil for 7 days. To examine the effect of discontinuation of fenofibrate, another animal group treated with fenofibrate was examined on post-discontinuation day 3 (D-3). To examine whether SOD elevations attenuate oxidative stress in the ischemic brain, separate animals treated with fenofibrate for 7 days were subjected to 60 minutes of focal ischemia on post-discontinuation day 0 (D-0) or D-3. Fenofibrate (30 mg/kg) increased mRNA levels of all three isoforms of SOD and activity level in BMV on D-0, but these effects were not detected on D-3. The elevations were not detected in PPAR null mice. SOD levels were also elevated by gemfibrozil (30 mg/kg). Fenofibrate significantly reduced superoxide production and protein oxidation in the ischemic brain at 30 minutes after reperfusion. Fenofibrate reduced infarct size measured at 24 hours after reperfusion on D-0; however, the infarct reduction was not seen when ischemia was induced on D-3. These findings suggest that fibrates elevate SOD in BMV through PPAR, which contributes to the infarct reduction, at least in part. Further studies are needed to establish the link between the SOD elevations and the brain protection by fibrates against ischemia.
Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a progressive neurodegenerative disease that causes cognitive and behavioral deterioration in the elderly. Neurofibrillary tangles (NFTs) are one of the pathological hallmarks of AD that has been shown to correlate positively with the severity of dementia in the neocortex of AD patients. In an attempt to characterize an in vivo AD tauopathy model, okadaic acid (OA), a protein phosphatase inhibitor, was microinfused into the right lateral dorsal hippocampus area of ovariectomized adult rat. Cognitive deficiency was seen in OA-treated rats without a change in motor function. Both silver staining and immunohistochemistry staining revealed that OA treatment induces NFTs-like conformational changes in both the cortex and hippocampus. Phosphorylated tau as well as cyclin-dependent kinase 5 (cdk5) and its coactivator, p25, were significantly increased in these regions of the brain. Oxidative stress was also increased with OA treatment as measured by protein carbonylation and lipid peroxidation. These data suggest that the unilateral microinfusion of OA into the dorsal hippocampus causes cognitive deficiency, NFTs-like pathological changes, and oxidative stress as seen in AD pathology via tau hyperphosphorylation caused by inhibition of protein phosphatases.
Normal, age-related depletion of the androgen testosterone is a risk factor for Alzheimer's disease (AD) in men. Previously, we reported that experimental androgen depletion significantly accelerates development of AD-like neuropathology in the 3xTg-AD triple-transgenic mouse model of AD, an effect prevented by androgen treatment. Because testosterone is metabolized in brain into both the androgen dihydrotestosterone (DHT) and the estrogen 17-estradiol (E2), testosterone can mediate its effects through androgen and or estrogen pathways. To define the role of androgen and estrogen pathways in regulation of AD-like neuropathology, we compared the effects of testosterone (T) and its metabolites DHT and E2 in male 3xTg-AD mice depleted of endogenous sex steroid hormones by gonadectomy (GDX). Male 3xTg-AD mice were sham GDX or GDX, immediately treated with vehicle, T, DHT, or E2, and 4 months later evaluated for two indices of AD-like neuropathology, -amyloid (A) accumulation and tau hyperphosphorylation. In comparison to sham GDX mice, we observed a significant increase in A accumulation in GDX mice in subiculum, hippocampus, and amygdala. Treatment of GDX mice with T prevented the increased A accumulation in all three brain regions. DHT treatment yielded similar results, significantly reducing A accumulation across brain regions. Interestingly, E2 prevented A accumulation in hippocampus but exerted only partial effects in subiculum and amygdala. Levels of tau hyperphosphorylation in sham GDX male 3xTg-AD mice were modest and only slightly increased by GDX. Treatment of GDX mice with T or E2 but not DHT reduced tau hyperphosphorylation to levels lower than observed in sham animals. These data suggest that testosterone regulates A pathology through androgen and estrogen pathways and reduces tau pathology largely through estrogen pathways. These findings further define hormone pathways involved in regulation of AD-related pathology, information that is important for understanding disease etiology and developing pathway-specific hormone interventions.
Transplantation of olfactory ensheathing cells (OECs) has been a promising strategy in enhancing central nervous system (CNS) regeneration. However, little is known about the effects of transplanted OECs on the self-renewal, neurogenesis, and oligodendrogenesis of neural stem cells (NSCs), which are known to play a very important role in the repair of damaged CNS tissue. In this study, we investigated the influence of diffusible, membrane-bound, and extracellular matrix factors from OECs on the self-renewal and differentiation properties of NSCs. We found that diffusible factors from cultured OECs promoted self-renewal, whereas the extracellular matrix molecules from OECs increased neurogenesis and oligodendrogenesis of NSCs. Furthermore, we demonstrated that directly coculturing OECs and NSCs inhibited not only self-renewal but also neurogenesis and oligodendrogenesis of NSCs. We propose three models for the interaction between transplanted OECs and endogenous NSCs. Our findings provide new insight into the ability of OECs to promote CNS repair and also indicate potential targets for manipulation of these cells to enhance their restorative ability.
We present a model for the study of injury-induced neurogenesis in the dentate gyrus (DG) in murine organotypic hippocampal slice cultures (OHCs). A brief exposure of 8-day-old hippocampal slice cultures to the glutamate receptor agonist N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA; 20-50M for 30 min) caused a selective excitotoxic injury in the CA1 subfield of the hippocampus that matured over a period of 24h. The insult resulted in a prominent up-regulation of proliferating nuclei within the OHC dentate gyrus (DG), and a corresponding increase in Ki67/doublecortin double-positive cells in the SGZ of the dentate gyrus. 5-bromo-2-deoxyuridine (BrdU)-labelling of the OHCs for three days subsequent to the NMDA exposure revealed significantly increased BrdU incorporation within the DG (SGZ and GCL) of the hippocampus. Doublecortin immunofluorescence indicated a concurrent up-regulation of neuronal precursor cells specifically in the SGZ and GCL. Significantly increased BrdU incorporation could be detected up to 6-9 days after termination of the NMDA exposure. The model presented here enables easy manipulation and follow-up of injury-induced neuroblast proliferation in the DG that is amenable to the study of transgenic mice.
Alterations in intrauterine programming occurring during critical periods of development have adverse consequences for whole-organ systems or individual tissue functions in later life. In this paper, we show that rat embryonic neural stem cells (NSCs) exposed to the synthetic glucocorticoid dexamethasone (Dex) undergo heritable alterations, possibly through epigenetic mechanisms. Exposure to Dex results in decreased NSC proliferation, with no effects on survival or differentiation, and changes in the expression of genes associated with cellular senescence and mitochondrial functions. Dex upregulates cell cycle-related genes p16 and p21 in a glucocorticoid receptor(GR)-dependent manner. The senescence-associated markers high mobility group (Hmg) A1 and heterochromatin protein 1 (HP1) are also upregulated in Dex-exposed NSCs, whereas Bmi1 (polycomb ring finger oncogene) and mitochondrial genes Nd3 (NADH dehydrogenase 3) and Cytb (cytochrome b) are downregulated. The concomitant decrease in global DNA methylation and DNA methyltransferases (Dnmts) suggests the occurrence of epigenetic changes. All these features are retained in daughter NSCs (never directly exposed to Dex) and are associated with a higher susceptibility to oxidative stress, as shown by the increased occurrence of apoptotic cell death on exposure to the redox-cycling reactive oxygen species (ROS) generator 2,3-dimethoxy-1-naphthoquinone (DMNQ). Our study provides novel evidence for programming effects induced by glucocorticoids (GCs) on NSCs and supports the idea that fetal exposure to endogenous or exogenous GCs is likely to result in long-term consequences that may predispose to neurodevelopmental and/or neurodegenerative disorders.

Chemosensory neurons respond to stimulation induced by gasses, volatile and non-volatile compounds. Neuronal excitation mediated via second messengers involves typically: cGMP, cAMP, or IP3. Transduction pathways based on cyclic nucleotide have three-phosphate nucleotide as substrate, while IP3 has a membrane lipid substrate. These derivatives of cholesterol are signaling molecules with modulator-like effects on many proteins, including membrane ion channels. In the present study, spontaneous and induced activities were recorded in a whole-cell configuration, in current and voltage clamp modes, in isolated chemosensory neurons obtained from the mouse. Chemosensory neurons responded with an inward depolarizing current to application of arachidonic acid, which suggests a role for it in putative mechanisms of signal transduction.


The natural response to itch sensation is to scratch, which relieves the itch through an unknown mechanism. Interaction between pain and itch has been frequently demonstrated, and the selectivity hypothesis of itch, based on data from electrophysiological and behavioral experiments, postulates the existence of primary pain afferents capable of repressing itch. Here, we demonstrate that deletion of vesicular glutamate transporter (VGLUT) 2 in a subpopulation of neurons partly overlapping with the vanilloid receptor (TRPV1) primary afferents resulted in a dramatic increase in itch behavior accompanied by a reduced responsiveness to thermal pain. The increased itch behavior was reduced by administration of antihistaminergic drugs and by genetic deletion of the gastrin-releasing peptide receptor, demonstrating a dependence on VGLUT2 to maintain normal levels of both histaminergic and nonhistaminergic itch. This study establishes that VGLUT2 is a major player in TRPV1 thermal nociception and also serves to regulate a normal itch response.
Memory and attention deficits are common after prefrontal cortex (PFC) damage, yet people generally recover some function over time. Recovery is thought to be dependent upon undamaged brain regions, but the temporal dynamics underlying cognitive recovery are poorly understood. Here, we provide evidence that the intact PFC compensates for damage in the lesioned PFC on a trial-by-trial basis dependent on cognitive load. The extent of this rapid functional compensation is indexed by transient increases in electrophysiological measures of attention and memory in the intact PFC, detectable within a second after stimulus presentation and only when the lesioned hemisphere is challenged. These observations provide evidence supporting a dynamic and flexible model of compensatory neural plasticity.
A widely discussed hypothesis in neuroscience is that transiently active ensembles of neurons, known as &quot;cell assemblies,&quot; underlie numerous operations of the brain, from encoding memories to reasoning. However, the mechanisms responsible for the formation and disbanding of cell assemblies and temporal evolution of cell assembly sequences are not well understood. I introduce and review three interconnected topics, which could facilitate progress in defining cell assemblies, identifying their neuronal organization, and revealing causal relationships between assembly organization and behavior. First, I hypothesize that cell assemblies are best understood in light of their output product, as detected by &quot;reader-actuator&quot; mechanisms. Second, I suggest that the hierarchical organization of cell assemblies may be regarded as a neural syntax. Third, constituents of the neural syntax are linked together by dynamically changing constellations of synaptic weights (&quot;synapsembles&quot;). The existing support for this tripartite framework is reviewed and strategies for experimental testing of its predictions are discussed.
The description of itch (formally known as pruritus) as an &quot;unpleasant sensation that elicits the desire or reflex to scratch&quot; (Ikoma et al., 2006) is immediately familiar. Research in the field of pruritoception has added to our understanding of this area of sensory neurobiology as it pertains to both normal and pathological conditions. In particular, much progress has been made on the mechanisms and circuits of itch, which we review here.
Neurons adapt to altered network activity through homeostatic changes in synaptic function. In this issue of Neuron, Goold and Nicoll report that chronic hyperactivation of individual CA1 pyramidal neurons drives cell-autonomous, compensatory synapse elimination via CaMKIV-dependent transcription. These findings suggest that neurons gauge their intrinsic activity to instruct homeostatic regulation of synaptic inputs.
Spike-timing dependent plasticity (STDP), a widespread synaptic modification mechanism, is sensitive to correlations between presynaptic spike trains and it generates competition among synapses. However, STDP has an inherent instability because strong synapses are more likely to be strengthened than weak ones, causing them to grow in strength until some biophysical limit is reached. Through simulations and analytic calculations, we show that a small temporal shift in the STDP window that causes synchronous, or nearly synchronous, pre- and postsynaptic action potentials to induce long-term depression can stabilize synaptic strengths. Shifted STDP also stabilizes the postsynaptic firing rate and can implement both Hebbian and anti-Hebbian forms of competitive synaptic plasticity. Interestingly, the overall level of inhibition determines whether plasticity is Hebbian or anti-Hebbian. Even a random symmetric jitter of a few milliseconds in the STDP window can stabilize synaptic strengths while retaining these features. The same results hold for a shifted version of the more recent &quot;triplet&quot; model of STDP. Our results indicate that the detailed shape of the STDP window function near the transition from depression to potentiation is of the utmost importance in determining the consequences of STDP, suggesting that this region warrants further experimental study.

Two-photon scanning microscopy has advanced our understanding of neural signaling in non-mammalian species and mammals. Various developments are needed to perform two-photon scanning microscopy over prolonged periods in non-human primates performing a behavioral task. In striate cortex in two macaque monkeys, cortical neurons were transfected with a genetically encoded fluorescent calcium sensor, memTNXL, using AAV1 as a viral vector. By constructing an extremely rigid and stable apparatus holding both the two-photon scanning microscope and the monkey's head, single neurons were imaged at high magnification for prolonged periods with minimal motion artifacts for up to ten months. Structural images of single neurons were obtained at high magnification. Changes in calcium during visual stimulation were measured as the monkeys performed a fixation task. Overall, functional responses and orientation tuning curves were obtained in 18.8% of the 234 labeled and imaged neurons. This demonstrated that the two-photon scanning microscopy can be successfully obtained in behaving primates.
Recent studies have shown that stellate cells (SCs) of the medial entorhinal cortex become hyper-excitable in animal models of temporal lobe epilepsy. These studies have also demonstrated the existence of recurrent connections among SCs, reduced levels of recurrent inhibition in epileptic networks as compared to control ones, and comparable levels of recurrent excitation among SCs in both network types. In this work, we investigate the biophysical and dynamic mechanism of generation of the fast time scale corresponding to hyper-excitable firing and the transition between theta and fast firing frequency activity in SCs. We show that recurrently connected minimal networks of SCs exhibit abrupt, threshold-like transition between theta and hyper-excitable firing frequencies as the result of small changes in the maximal synaptic (AMPAergic) conductance. The threshold required for this transition is modulated by synaptic inhibition. Similar abrupt transition between firing frequency regimes can be observed in single, self-coupled SCs, which represent a network of recurrently coupled neurons synchronized in phase, but not in synaptically isolated SCs as the result of changes in the levels of the tonic drive. Using dynamical systems tools (phase-space analysis), we explain the dynamic mechanism underlying the genesis of the fast time scale and the abrupt transition between firing frequency regimes, their dependence on the intrinsic SC's currents and synaptic excitation. This abrupt transition is mechanistically different from others observed in similar networks with different cell types. Most notably, there is no bistability involved. 'In vitro' experiments using single SCs self-coupled with dynamic clamp show the abrupt transition between firing frequency regimes, and demonstrate that our theoretical predictions are not an artifact of the model. In addition, these experiments show that high-frequency firing is burst-like with a duration modulated by an M-current.
For ion channels, the transmembrane potential plays a critical role by acting as a driving force for permeant ions. At the microscopic level, the transmembrane potential is thought to decay nonlinearly across the ion permeation pathway because of the irregular three-dimensional shape of the channel's pore. By taking advantage of the current structural and functional understanding of cyclic nucleotide-gated channels, in this study we experimentally explore the transmembrane potential's distribution across the open pore. As a readout for the voltage drop, we engineered cysteine residues along the selectivity filter and scanned the sensitivity of their modification rates by Ag(+) to the transmembrane potential. The experimental data, which indicate that the majority of the electric field drops across the selectivity filter, are in good agreement with continuum electrostatic calculations using a homology model of an open CNG channel. By focusing the transmembrane potential across the selectivity filter, the electromotive driving force is coupled with the movement of permeant ions in the filter, maximizing the efficiency of this process.
Activity-dependent dendritic Ca(2+) signals play a critical role in multiple forms of nonlinear cellular output and plasticity. In thalamocortical neurons, despite the well established spatial separation of sensory and cortical inputs onto proximal and distal dendrites, respectively, little is known about the spatiotemporal dynamics of intrinsic dendritic Ca(2+) signaling during the different state-dependent firing patterns that are characteristic of these neurons. Here we demonstrate that T-type Ca(2+) channels are expressed throughout the entire dendritic tree of rat thalamocortical neurons and that they mediate regenerative propagation of low threshold spikes, typical of, but not exclusive to, sleep states, resulting in global dendritic Ca(2+) influx. In contrast, actively backpropagating action potentials, typical of wakefulness, result in smaller Ca(2+) influxes that can temporally summate to produce dendritic Ca(2+) accumulations that are linearly related to firing frequency but spatially confined to proximal dendritic regions. Furthermore, dendritic Ca(2+) transients evoked by both action potentials and low-threshold spikes are shaped by Ca(2+) uptake by sarcoplasmic/endoplasmic reticulum Ca(2+) ATPases but do not rely on Ca(2+)-induced Ca(2+) release. Our data demonstrate that thalamocortical neurons are endowed with intrinsic dendritic Ca(2+) signaling properties that are spatially and temporally modified in a behavioral state-dependent manner and suggest that backpropagating action potentials faithfully inform proximal sensory but not distal corticothalamic synapses of neuronal output, whereas corticothalamic synapses only &quot;detect&quot; Ca(2+) signals associated with low-threshold spikes.
The compromised abilities to localize sounds and to understand speech are two hallmark deficits in aged individuals. The auditory cortex is necessary for these processes, yet we know little about how normal aging affects these early cortical fields. In this study, we recorded the spatial tuning of single neurons in primary (auditory cortex, A1) and secondary (caudolateral field, CL) auditory cortical areas in young and aged alert rhesus macaques. We found that the neurons of aged animals had greater spontaneous and driven activity, and broader spatial tuning compared with those of younger animals. Importantly, spatial tuning was not sharpened between A1 and CL in aged monkeys as it is in younger monkeys. This implies that a major effect of normal aging is a degradation of the hierarchical processing between serially connected cortical areas, which could be a key contributing mechanism of the general cognitive decline that is commonly observed in normal aging.
Lipoprotein receptor signaling regulates the positioning and differentiation of postmitotic neurons during development and modulates neuronal plasticity in the mature brain. Depending on the contextual situation, the lipoprotein receptor ligand Reelin can have opposing effects on cortical neurons. We show that Reelin increases growth cone motility and filopodia formation, and identify the underlying signaling cascade. Reelin activates the Rho GTPase Cdc42, known for its role in neuronal morphogenesis and directed migration, in an apolipoprotein E receptor 2-, Disabled-1-, and phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase-dependent manner. We demonstrate that neuronal vesicle trafficking, a Cdc42-controlled process, is increased after Reelin treatment and further provide evidence that the peptidergic VIP/PACAP38 system and Reelin can functionally interact to promote axonal branching. In conclusion, Reelin-induced activation of Cdc42 contributes to the regulation of the cytoskeleton of individual responsive neurons and converges with other signaling cascades to orchestrate Rho GTPase activity and promote neuronal development. Our data link the observation that defects in Rho GTPases and Reelin signaling are responsible for developmental defects leading to neurological and psychiatric disorders.
The skin is a repository of sensory axons immersed within the turnover of epidermal, follicular, and dermal cellular constituents. We show that epidermal and perifollicular axons within intact hairy skin of mice possess a remarkable dynamic plasticity linked to their microenvironment. For example, the majority of epidermal axons express the growth protein GAP43. Unexpectedly, we induced new cutaneous axogenesis by simple and noninvasive hair clipping, a response linked to a series of changes in their cutaneous neighbors. In thy-1 YFP transgenic mice with fluorescent axons, superficial epidermal and perifollicular cells newly acquired YFP, indicating diffuse activation by clipping despite the absence of skin injury. At 48 h after clipping, this activation was accompanied by a rise in the number of epidermal cells, transient rises in mRNA of Sox2, a marker of follicular stem cells, and a rise in mRNA of glial fibrillary acidic protein, a marker of glial cells. Axons responded with rises in their numbers in the epidermis and around dermal hair follicles. Linking these responses were early, large, and selective rises in hepatic growth factor (HGF) mRNA, with its protein identified in epidermal cells, perifollicular cells, and sensory axons. Moreover, these elements also expressed the HGF receptor c-Met, especially in small caliber sensory neurons. Finally, we identified concurrent rises in Rac1 activation, a downstream target of ligated c-Met. Together, these results confirm critical linkages between sensory axons and their cutaneous milieu. We believe that the plasticity is provoked by follicular-originating cutaneous activation with HGF and Rac1 signaling, allowing cross talk and axonal remodeling.
Central to the production of adaptive behavior is the ability to learn the temporal order of behavioral elements (e.g., A, B, C). Yet little is known about neural substrates of serial order in self-initiated behavioral sequences. The present study assessed the contributions of specific dorsal striatal regions to the acquisition of serial order in mice, using a two-action sequence task without instructive cues. Excitotoxic lesions of the sensorimotor (dorsolateral) striatum dramatically impaired the acquisition of a simple sequence; in contrast, lesions of the associative (dorsomedial) striatum had no significant effect. Neither lesion caused gross motor impairments or affected the learning of nonsequential actions. These results demonstrate for the first time a critical role of the sensorimotor striatum in the learning of serial order.
Episodic memory is characterized by rapid formation of new associations that bind information within individual episodes. A powerful aspect of episodic memory is the ability to flexibly apply and recombine information from past experience to guide new behavior. A critical question for memory research is how medial temporal lobe (MTL) and prefrontal cortex (PFC), regions implicated in rapid within-episode binding, further support cross-episode binding in service of mnemonic flexibility. We set to answer this question using an associative inference task in humans that required rapid binding of information across overlapping experiences (AB, BC) to enable successful transfer to novel test probes (AC). Within regions predicting subsequent associative memory for directly learned associations, encoding activation in MTL, including hippocampus and parahippocampal cortex, uniquely predicted success on novel transfer trials both within and across participants, consistent with an integrative encoding mechanism where overlapping experiences are linked into a combined representation during learning. In contrast, during retrieval, PFC activation predicted trial-by-trial transfer success while MTL predicted transfer performance across participants. Moreover, increased MTL-PFC coupling was observed during novel transfer trials compared with retrieval of directly learned associations. These findings suggest that inferential processes support transfer of rapidly acquired experiences to novel events during retrieval where multiple memories are recalled and flexibly recombined in service of successful behavior. Together, these results demonstrate distinct encoding and retrieval mechanisms that support mnemonic flexibility, revealing a unique role for MTL regions in cross-episode binding during encoding and engagement of interactive MTL-PFC processes during flexible transfer at test.

Vitamin D receptors and vitamin D metabolizing enzymes are present in the central nervous system. Calcitriol (the active vitamin D hormone) affects numerous neurotransmitters and neurotrophic factors, relevant for mental disorders. In the case of depressive disorders, considerable evidence supports a role of suboptimal vitamin D levels. However, the data are not conclusive and further studies are necessary. Especially, the relative importance of the pineal-melatonin system versus the vitamin D-endocrine system for the pathogenesis of seasonal affective disorders is presently unresolved. Two diagnoses, schizophrenia and autism, have been hypothetically linked to developmental (prenatal) vitamin D deficiency, however, also in adult patients, low levels have been reported, supporting the notion that vitamin D deficiency may not only be a predisposing developmental factor but also relate to the adult patients' psychiatric state. Two cases are described, whose psychiatric improvement coincided with effective treatment of vitamin D deficiency.

Genetic studies are rapidly identifying variants that shape risk for disorders of human cognition, but the question of how such variants predispose to neuropsychiatric disease remains. Noninvasive human brain imaging allows assessment of the brain in vivo, and the combination of genetics and imaging phenotypes remains one of the only ways to explore functional genotype-phenotype associations in human brain. Common variants in contactin-associated protein-like 2 (CNTNAP2), a neurexin superfamily member, have been associated with several allied neurodevelopmental disorders, including autism and specific language impairment, and CNTNAP2 is highly expressed in frontal lobe circuits in the developing human brain. Using functional neuroimaging, we have demonstrated a relationship between frontal lobar connectivity and common genetic variants in CNTNAP2. These data provide a mechanistic link between specific genetic risk for neurodevelopmental disorders and empirical data implicating dysfunction of long-range connections within the frontal lobe in autism. The convergence between genetic findings and cognitive-behavioral models of autism provides evidence that genetic variation at CNTNAP2 predisposes to diseases such as autism in part through modulation of frontal lobe connectivity.
GluK2 is a kainate receptor subunit that is alternatively spliced at the C-terminus. Previous studies implicated GluK2 in autism. In particular, the methionine-to-isoleucine replacement at amino acid residue 867 (M867I) that can only occur in the longest isoform of the human GluK2 (hGluK2), as the disease (autism) mutation, is thought to cause gain-of-function. However, the kinetic properties of the wild-type hGluK2 and the functional consequence of this gain-of-function mutation at the molecular level are not well understood. To investigate whether the M867I mutation affects the channel properties of the human GluK2 kainate receptor, we have systematically characterized the rate and the equilibrium constants pertinent to channel opening and channel desensitization for this mutant and the wild-type hGluK2 receptor, along with the wild-type rat GluK2 kainate receptor (rGluK2) as the control. Our results show that the M867I mutation does not affect either the rate or the equilibrium constants of the channel opening but does slow down the channel desensitization rate by ~1.6-fold at saturating glutamate concentrations. It is possible that a consequence of this mutation on the desensitization rate is linked to facilitating the receptor trafficking and membrane expression, given the close proximity of M867 to the forward trafficking motif in the C-terminal sequence. By comparing the kinetic data of the wild-type human and rat GluK2 receptors, we also find that the human GluK2 has a ~3-fold smaller channel-opening rate constant but an identical channel-closing rate constant and thus a channel-opening probability of 0.85 vs 0.96 for rGluK2. Furthermore, the intrinsic equilibrium dissociation constant K(1) for hGluK2, like the EC(50) value, is ~2-fold lower than rGluK2. Our results therefore suggest that the human GluK2 is relatively a slowly activating channel but more sensitive to glutamate, as compared to the rat ortholog, despite the fact that the human and rat forms share 99% sequence homology.



The discovery of -synuclein (S) mutations has made a major contribution to the understanding of the pathogenesis of -synucleinopathies such as Parkinson's disease and dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB). In contrast, less attention has been paid to -synuclein (S) mutations. In this paper, we show that transgenic (tg) mice expressing DLB-linked P123H S develop progressive neurodegeneration, as characterized by axonal swelling, astrogliosis and behavioural abnormalities, with memory disorder being more prominent than motor deficits. Furthermore, cross-breeding of P123H S tg mice with S tg mice, but not with S knockout mice, greatly enhanced neurodegeneration phenotypes. These results suggest that P123H S is pathogenic and cooperates with pathogenic S to stimulate neurodegeneration in mouse brain, indicating a causative role of P123H S in familial DLB. Given the neuritic pathology of S in sporadic -synucleinopathies, it appears that alteration of S can contribute to the pathogenesis of a broad range of -synucleinopathies.
There is growing evidence in the scientific literature for shared risk and overlapping disease mechanisms in the development of cancer and Parkinson disease (PD). This association has recently been highlighted with respect to melanoma and PD. Therefore, we review and discuss the literature concerning this unexplained link. A striking overlap is observed in the tyrosine and L-dopa biosynthetic pathways suggesting a common disease mechanism associated with these 2 heterogeneous disorders that warrants further investigation.


The Syrian golden hamster drinks alcohol readily, but only achieves moderate blood alcohol levels, and does not go through withdrawal from alcohol. Because the hamster is a model of caloric homeostasis, both caloric content and reward value may contribute to the hamster's alcohol consumption. The current study examines alcohol consumption in the hamster when a caloric or non-caloric sweet solution is concurrently available and caloric intake in the hamster before, during, and after exposure to either: alcohol, sucrose or saccharin. In Experiments 1 and 2, hamsters were given access to alcohol (15% v/v) and water; once alcohol consumption steadied, a bottle containing an ascending concentration of sucrose (99-614 mM) or saccharin (2-10 mM), or water was added. In Experiment 3, hamsters were given access to alcohol (15% v/v), sucrose (614 mM), saccharin (4 mM), or a second water bottle for 14 days. After the second bottle was removed, measurements continued for 14days. Sucrose exposure suppressed alcohol consumption at concentrations lower in calories than the alcohol solution. Saccharin exposure failed to suppress alcohol consumption. Exposure to sucrose and alcohol but not saccharin decreased food intake. Decreased alcohol consumption in response to a caloric sweetener and decreased food intake during alcohol exposure support that alcohol consumption by the hamster is mediated by caloric content. However, suppression of alcohol intake by a sucrose solution of lower caloric content and the equivalent intake of individual alcohol, sucrose and saccharin solutions support a role for reward value in alcohol consumption.
Neurotransmitter release is achieved through the fusion of synaptic vesicles with the neuronal plasma membrane (exocytosis). Vesicles are then retrieved from the plasma membrane (endocytosis). It was hypothesized more than 3 decades ago that endosomes participate in vesicle recycling, constituting a slow endocytosis pathway required especially after prolonged stimulation. This recycling model predicts that newly endocytosed vesicles fuse with an endosome, which sorts (organizes) the molecules and buds exocytosis-competent vesicles. We analyzed here the endosome function using hippocampal neurons, isolated nerve terminals (synaptosomes), and PC12 cells by stimulated emission depletion microscopy, photooxidation EM, and several conventional microscopy assays. Surprisingly, we found that endosomal sorting is a rapid pathway, which appeared to be involved in the recycling of the initial vesicles to be released on stimulation, the readily releasable pool. In agreement with the endosomal model, the vesicle composition changed after endocytosis, with the newly formed vesicles being enriched in plasma membrane proteins. Vesicle proteins were organized in clusters both in the plasma membrane (on exocytosis) and in the endosome. In the latter compartment, they segregated from plasma membrane components in a process that is likely important for sorting/budding of newly developed vesicles from the endosome.
PSD-95/SAP90/DLG/ZO-1 (PDZ) domain-mediated protein-protein interactions play important roles in regulating AMPA receptor trafficking and neuronal plasticity. GRIP1 and GRIP2 are homologous multi-PDZ domain-containing proteins that bind to the C-termini of AMPA-R GluA2 and GluA3 subunits. Previous attempts to determine the cellular roles of GRIP1 and GRIP2 in neurons have been complicated by nonspecific reagents, and by the embryonic lethality of conventional GRIP1 KO mice. To circumvent these issues we developed a conditional targeted deletion strategy to knock out GRIP1 in postnatal neurons derived from GRIP2 KO mice. Loss of GRIP1 and 2 did not affect normal AMPA-R steady-state trafficking and endocytosis, but strikingly impaired activity-dependent AMPA-R recycling. This previously uncharacterized role for GRIP1 appears to be mediated by novel interactions with the cellular trafficking machinery via the exocyst protein complex. Indeed, disruption of GRIP1-exocyst binding caused a strikingly similar deficit in AMPA-R recycling. Together these findings reveal a previously unidentified role for AMPA-R-GRIP1-exocyst protein complexes in activity-dependent AMPA-R trafficking.
Experience-dependent cortical plasticity has been studied by using loss-of-function methods. Here, we take the complementary approach of using a genetic gain-of-function that enhances plasticity. We show that a constitutively active form of H-ras (H-ras(G12V)), expressed presynaptically at excitatory synapses in mice, accelerates and enhances multiple, mechanistically distinct forms of plasticity in the developing visual cortex. In vivo, H-ras(G12V) not only increased the rate of ocular dominance change in response to monocular deprivation (MD), but also accelerated recovery from deprivation by reverse occlusion. In vitro, H-ras(G12V) expression decreased baseline presynaptic release probability and enhanced presynaptically expressed long-term potentiation (LTP). H-ras(G12V) expression also accelerated the increase following MD in the frequency of miniature excitatory potentials, mirroring accelerated plasticity in vivo. These findings demonstrate accelerated neocortical plasticity, which offers an avenue toward future therapies for many neurological and neuropsychiatric disorders.
Previous studies have suggested that rear seat occupants are at lower risk of serious injury and death in crashes. However, over the last 10-15 years there have been significant changes in front seat safety systems. The aim of this study was to determine whether there is still a benefit for rear seated occupants compared to front seat occupants. A matched-cohort approach, using data on restrained occupants from the US National Automotive Sampling System (data years 1993-2007), was adopted. Conditional poisson regression modeling was used to evaluate the relative risk of AIS3+ injury in front (passenger and driver) and rear seat occupants, in vehicles of model year 1990-1996 compared to newer vehicles. Occupant age, belt type, and intrusion were additional variables in the model. The relative risk of AIS3+ injury for front and rear occupants was influenced by age and model year. For those aged 16-50 years in older vehicles, the front and rear seat offered similar levels of protection (RR=1.14, CI=1.09-1.19), however in newer model vehicles (1997-2007), the rear seat carried a higher risk of injury (RR=1.98, CI=1.90-2.06). For adults over 50 years, the rear seat carried a higher risk in both older and newer vehicles, and for 9-15 year olds, the rear seat carried a lower risk. These findings suggest that safety for front seat occupants has improved over the last decade, to the point where, for occupants over 15 years of age, the front seat is safer than the rear seat. While the benefit of rear seating for children aged 9-15 years has decreased over time, they are still at lower risk in the rear seat.
In 2008 the authors held &quot;Involving Interface,&quot; a lively interdisciplinary event focusing on issues of biological, sociocultural, and technological interfacing (see Acknowledgments). Inspired by discussions at this event, in this article, we further discuss the value of input from neuroscience for developing robots and machine interfaces, and the value of philosophy, the humanities, and the arts for identifying persistent links between human interfacing and broader ethical concerns. The importance of ongoing interdisciplinary debate and public communication on scientific and technical advances is also highlighted. Throughout, the authors explore the implications of the extended mind hypothesis for notions of moral accountability and robotics.









Many children adversely affected by maternal drinking during pregnancy cannot be identified early in life using current diagnostic criteria for fetal alcohol spectrum disorder (FASD). We conducted a preliminary investigation to determine whether ethanol-induced alterations in placental gene expression may have some utility as a diagnostic indicator of maternal drinking during pregnancy and as a prognostic indicator of risk for adverse neurobehavioral outcomes in affected offspring. Pregnant Long-Evans rats voluntarily consumed either a 0 or 5% ethanol solution 4 h each day throughout gestation. Ethanol consumption produced a mean maternal daily intermittent peak serum ethanol concentration of 84 mg/dL. Placentas were harvested on gestational day 20 for gene expression studies. Microarray analysis of more than 28,000 genes revealed that the expression of 304 known genes was altered twofold or greater in placenta from ethanol-consuming dams compared with controls. About 76% of these genes were repressed in ethanol-exposed placentas. Gene expression changes involved proteins associated with central nervous system development; organ morphogenesis; immunological responses; endocrine function; ion homeostasis; and skeletal, cardiovascular, and cartilage development. To date, quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction analysis has confirmed significant alterations in gene expression for 22 genes, including genes encoding for three calcium binding proteins, two matrix metalloproteinases, the cannabinoid 1, galanin 2 and toll-like receptor 4, iodothyronine deiodinase 2, 11- hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase 2, placental growth factor, transforming growth factor alpha, gremlin 1, and epithelial growth factor (EGF)-containing extracellular matrix protein. These results suggest that the expression of a sufficiently large number of placental mRNAs is altered after moderate drinking during pregnancy to warrant more detailed investigation of the placenta as a biomarker system for maternal drinking during pregnancy and as an early indicator of FASD. Furthermore, these results provide new insights into novel mechanisms on how ethanol may directly or indirectly mediate its teratogenic effects through alterations in placental function during pregnancy.
Despite considerable data published on cognitive and behavioral disabilities in children with fetal alcohol spectrum disorders (FASD), relatively little information is available on behavioral or pharmacological interventions for alcohol-affected children. The main goals of this article, therefore, are to summarize published intervention studies of FASD and to present a neurodevelopmental framework, based on recent findings from a number of disciplines, for designing new therapies for alcohol-affected children. This framework assumes a neuroconstructionist view, which posits that reciprocal interactions between neural activity and the brain's hardware lead to the progressive formation of intra- and interregional neural connections. In this view, behavioral interventions can be conceptualized as a series of guided experiences that are designed to produce neural activation. Based on evidence from cognitive neuroscience, it is hypothesized that specific interventions targeting executive attention and self-regulation may produce greater generalizable results than those aimed at domain-specific skills in children with FASD. In view of reciprocal interactions between environmental effects and neural structures, the proposed framework suggests that the maximum effects of interventions can eventually be achieved by optimally combining behavioral methods and cognition-enhancing drugs.


Microglia, the primary immune effector cells in the brain, continually monitor the tissue parenchyma for pathological alterations and become activated in Alzheimer's disease. Loss of signaling between neurons and microglia via deletion of the microglial receptor, CX3CR1, worsens phenotypes in various models of neurodegenerative diseases. In contrast, CX3CR1 deficiency ameliorates pathology in murine stroke models. To examine the role of CX3CR1 in Alzheimer's disease-related -amyloid pathology, we generated APPPS1 and R1.40 transgenic mouse models of Alzheimer's disease deficient for CX3CR1. Surprisingly, CX3CR1 deficiency resulted in a gene dose-dependent reduction in -amyloid deposition in both the APPPS1 and R1.40 mouse models of AD. Immunohistochemical analysis revealed reduced staining for CD68, a marker of microglial activation. Furthermore, quantitative immunohistochemical analysis revealed reduced numbers of microglia surrounding -amyloid deposits in the CX3CR1-deficient APPPS1 animals. The reduced -amyloid pathology correlated with reduced levels of TNF and CCL2 mRNAs, but elevated IL1 mRNA levels, suggesting an altered neuroinflammatory milieu. Finally, to account for these seemingly disparate results, both in vitro and in vivo studies provided evidence that CX3CL1/CX3CR1 signaling alters the phagocytic capacity of microglia, including the uptake of A fibrils. Taken together, these results demonstrate that loss of neuron-microglial fractalkine signaling leads to reduced -amyloid deposition in mouse models of AD that is potentially mediated by altered activation and phagocytic capability of CX3CR1-deficient microglia.
High-fat diets are known to decrease muscle protein synthesis, the adaptation to overload, and insulin sensitivity. Conditions that disrupt endoplasmic reticulum (ER) homeostasis lead to the activation of the unfolded protein response (UPR) that is associated with decreases in protein synthesis, chronic inflammation, and insulin resistance. The purpose of the present study was to establish whether ER stress is induced by a high-fat diet in skeletal muscle and whether ER stress can decrease mTORC1 activity and protein synthesis in muscle cells. Two independent protocols of high-fat feeding activated the UPR in mice. In the first study, mice consuming a high-fat diet containing 70% fat and &lt;1% carbohydrates for 6 wk showed higher markers of the UPR (BiP, IRE1, and MBTPS2) in the soleus and in the tibialis anterior muscles and ATF4 in the tibialis anterior (P &lt; 0.05). In the second study, a 20-wk high-fat diet containing 46% fat and 36% carbohydrates also increased BiP, IRE1, and phospho-PERK protein and the expression of ATF4, CHOP, and both the spliced and unspliced forms of XBP1 in the plantar flexors (P &lt; 0.05). In C(2)C(12) muscle cells, tunicamycin, thapsigargin, and palmitic acid all increased UPR markers and decreased phosphorylation of S6K1 (P &lt; 0.05). Collectively, these data show that a high-fat diet activates the UPR in mouse skeletal muscle in vivo. In addition, in vitro studies indicate that palmitic acid, and other well-known ER stress inducers, triggered the UPR in myogenic cells and led to a decrease in protein synthesis and mTORC1 activity.
Resveratrol (Resv), a red wine polyphenol, is known to exhibit vascular protective effects and reduce vascular smooth muscle cell mitogenesis. Vascular smooth muscle cell proliferation is a critical factor in the pathogenesis of restenosis, the renarrowing of vessels that often occurs after angioplasty and/or stent implantation. Although Resv has been shown to be an estrogen receptor (ER) modulator, the role of the ER in Resv-mediated protection against restenosis has not yet been elucidated in vivo. Therefore, with the use of a mouse carotid artery injury model, our objective was to determine the role of ER in modulating Resv-mediated effects on neointimal hyperplasia. Female wild-type and ER-(-/-) mice were administered a high-fat diet  Resv for 2 wk. A carotid artery endothelial denudation procedure was conducted, and the mice were administered a high-fat diet  Resv for an additional 2 wk. Resv-treated wild-type mice exhibited a dramatic decrease in restenosis, with an increased arterial nitric oxide (NO) synthase (NOS) activity and NO production. However, in the ER-(-/-) mice, Resv failed to afford protection and failed to increase NO production, apparently because of a decreased availability of the NOS cofactor tetrahydrobiopterin. To verify the role of NO in Resv-mediated effects, mice were coadministered Resv plus a nonselective NOS inhibitor, N(G)-nitro-l-arginine methyl ester (l-NAME). Cotreatment with l-NAME significantly attenuated the antirestenotic properties of Resv. These data thus suggest that Resv inhibits vascular proliferative responses after injury, predominately through an ER--dependent increase in NO production.









Recently, the Medical University of South Carolina adopted a lecture recording system (LRS). A retrospective study of LRS was implemented to document the students' perceptions, pattern of usage, and impact on the students' grades in three basic sciences courses (Cell Biology/Histology, Physiology, and Neurosciences). The number of accesses and length of viewings of the recordings were recorded per week for each student and correlated with the grades in each of the three courses. Attendance records were not available. The results showed considerable variability in the use of the LRS by both faculty and students during the entire semester and across all three courses, including week to week variations. Data indicated that 30% of the students did not use the LRS at all with 41% of the students using it very little (less than 10 times for a total of 131 recordings). Specific patterns of usage were identified for each of the three courses throughout the semester, with an increase in access prior or during examination weeks. However, the statistical analysis showed that there was no correlation between the final grades and the usage of LRS. Finally, a survey of the students' perception showed that 74% agreed/strongly agreed that the recordings were useful with 6% disagreeing/strongly disagreeing and 11% undecided. This study showed that the use of LRS might be a viable alternative for students unable to attend lecture due to circumstances such as illness but that more research is needed to truly understand the best pedagogical use of LRS.
Three-dimensional (3D) visualization of neuroanatomy can be challenging for medical students. This knowledge is essential in order for students to correlate cross-sectional neuroanatomy and whole brain specimens within neuroscience curricula and to interpret clinical and radiological information as clinicians or researchers. This study implemented and evaluated a new tool for teaching 3D neuroanatomy to first-year medical students at Boston University School of Medicine. Students were randomized into experimental and control classrooms. All students were taught neuroanatomy according to traditional 2D methods. Then, during laboratory review, the experimental group constructed 3D color-coded physical models of the periventricular structures, while the control group re-examined 2D brain cross-sections. At the end of the course, 2D and 3D spatial relationships of the brain and preferred learning styles were assessed in both groups. The overall quiz scores for the experimental group were significantly higher than the control group (t(85) = 2.02, P &lt; 0.05). However, when the questions were divided into those requiring either 2D or 3D visualization, only the scores for the 3D questions were significantly higher in the experimental group (F(,) = 5.48, P = 0.02). When surveyed, 84% of students recommended repeating the 3D activity for future laboratories, and this preference was equally distributed across preferred learning styles ( = 0.14, n.s.). Our results suggest that our 3D physical modeling activity is an effective method for teaching spatial relationships of brain anatomy and will better prepare students for visualization of 3D neuroanatomy, a skill essential for higher education in neuroscience, neurology, and neurosurgery.


The neural mechanism by which patients spontaneously recover cognitive function after brain injury is not understood. Here we demonstrate for the first time that aphasic patients, who have largely recovered language function, show increased frontoparietal integration. A similar change in functional connectivity is also observed when normal subjects are exposed to adverse listening conditions. Thus, compensation for inefficient language processing is associated with increased integration between parts of the language network critical to language control. This change reflects greater top-down control of speech comprehension and provides a mechanism by which language impairments after stroke may be compensated for.
JC virus (JCV) is a polyomavirus that infects human oligodendrocytes, leading to development of progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy (PML), an often fatal demyelinating disease occurring in immunocompromised individuals. Currently there are no effective therapies for the treatment of PML that result in clearance of JCV from the brain. Cidofovir (CDV) is an acyclic nucleoside phosphonate that inhibits DNA polymerases and has been used for the treatment of PML. However, CDV demonstrated little efficacy as a treatment for PML and causes substantial side effects to patients. To improve efficacy and reduce the toxicity of CDV, a lipid-ester derivative, CMX001, was generated by Chimerix and is currently in multicenter phase II clinical trials for the prevention or control of cytomegalovirus infection in hematopoietic stem cell transplant recipients and of BK virus in the urine of stem cell or renal allograft recipients. CMX001 caused minimal cytotoxic effects in human fetal brain SVG cells when used at concentrations between 0.01 M and 0.1 M. CMX001 resulted in a dose-dependent decrease in the number of JCV-infected cells during initial infection and nearly eliminated JCV-infected cells during an established infection. In addition, CMX001 treatment resulted in a 60% reduction in JCV DNA copy number during initial infection, which suggests that suppression of JCV infection by CMX001 is likely due to inhibition of virus DNA replication. This study demonstrates that CMX001 suppresses JCV infection at concentrations that have limited toxicity to human brain cells, indicating its potential use to limit JCV replication in infected patients.
Cu, Zn, superoxide dismutase (SOD1) is a ubiquitous enzyme localized in multiple cellular compartments, including mitochondria, where it concentrates in the intermembrane space (IMS). Similar to other small IMS proteins, the import and retention of SOD1 in the IMS is linked to its folding and maturation, involving the formation of critical intra- and intermolecular disulfide bonds. Therefore, the cysteine residues of SOD1 play a fundamental role in its IMS localization. IMS import of SOD1 involves its copper chaperone, CCS, whose mitochondrial distribution is regulated by the Mia40/Erv1 disulfide relay system in a redox-dependent manner: CCS promotes SOD1 maturation and retention in the IMS. The function of SOD1 in the IMS is still unknown, but it is plausible that it serves to remove superoxide released from the mitochondrial respiratory chain. Mutations in SOD1 cause familial amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS), whose pathologic features include mitochondrial bioenergetic dysfunction. Mutant SOD1 localization in the IMS is not dictated by oxygen concentration and the Mia40/Erv1 system, but is primarily dependent on aberrant protein folding and aggregation. Mutant SOD1 localization and aggregation in the IMS might cause the mitochondrial abnormalities observed in familial ALS and could play a significant role in disease pathogenesis.
It has been well established that adult neurogenesis occurs throughout life in the subventricular (SVZ) and subgranular (SGZ) zones. However, the exact role of this type of brain plasticity is not yet clear. Many studies have shown that neurogenesis is involved in learning and memory. This has led to a hypothesis which suggests that impairment in memory during aging and neurodegenerative diseases such as Alzheimer's disease (AD) may involve abnormal neurogenesis. Indeed, during aging, there is an age-related decline in adult neurogenesis. This decline is mostly related to decreased proliferation, associated to decreased stimulation to proliferate in an aging brain. In AD, there is also evidence for decreased neurogenesis, that accompanies the neuronal loss characteristic of the disease. Interestingly in AD, there is increased proliferation, that may be caused by increasing amounts of soluble amyloid 42-protein (A). However, most of these new neurons die, and fibrillar A seems to be involved in generating an inappropriate environment for these neurons to mature. These findings open prospects for new strategies that can increase neurogenesis in normal or pathological processes in the aging brain, and by that decrease memory deficits.
Normal mitochondrial dynamics consist of fission and fusion events giving rise to new mitochondria, a process termed mitochondrial biogenesis. However, several neurodegenerative disorders manifest aberrant mitochondrial dynamics, resulting in morphological abnormalities often associated with deficits in mitochondrial mobility and cell bioenergetics. Rarely, dysfunctional mitochondrial occur in a familial pattern due to genetic mutations, but much more commonly patients manifest sporadic forms of mitochondrial disability presumably related to a complex set of interactions of multiple genes (or their products) with environmental factors (G  E). Recent studies have shown that generation of excessive nitric oxide (NO), in part due to generation of oligomers of amyloid- (A) protein or overactivity of the NMDA-subtype of glutamate receptor, can augment mitochondrial fission, leading to frank fragmentation of the mitochondria. S-Nitrosylation, a covalent redox reaction of NO with specific protein thiol groups, represents one mechanism contributing to NO-induced mitochondrial fragmentation, bioenergetic failure, synaptic damage, and eventually neuronal apoptosis. Here, we summarize our evidence in Alzheimer's disease (AD) patients and animal models showing that NO contributes to mitochondrial fragmentation via S-nitrosylation of dynamin-related protein 1 (Drp1), a protein involved in mitochondrial fission. These findings may provide a new target for drug development in AD. Additionally, we review emerging evidence that redox reactions triggered by excessive levels of NO can contribute to protein misfolding, the hallmark of a number of neurodegenerative disorders, including AD and Parkinson's disease. For example, S-nitrosylation of parkin disrupts its E3 ubiquitin ligase activity, and thereby affects Lewy body formation and neuronal cell death.


Over the past 2 decades, enormous progress has been made with regard to pharmacotherapies for patients with multiple sclerosis. There is perhaps no other subspecialty in neurology in which more agents have been approved that substantially alter the clinical course of a disabling disorder. Many of the pharmaceuticals that are currently approved, in clinical trials, or in preclinical development were initially evaluated in an animal model of multiple sclerosis, experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis. Two Food and Drug Administration-approved agents (glatiramer acetate and natalizumab) were developed using the experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis model. This model has served clinician-scientists for many decades to enable understanding the inflammatory cascade that underlies clinical disease activity and disease surrogate markers detected in patients.

The onset of motion captures attention during visual search even if the motion is not task relevant, which suggests that motion onsets capture attention in a stimulus-driven manner. However, we have recently shown that stimulus-driven attentional capture by abruptly appearing objects is attenuated under conditions of high perceptual load. In the present study, we examined the influence of perceptual load on attentional capture by another type of dynamic stimulus: the onset of motion. Participants searched for a target letter through briefly presented low- and high-load displays. On each trial, two irrelevant flankers also appeared, one with a motion onset and one that was static. Flankers defined by a motion onset captured attention in the low-load but not in the high-load displays. This modulation of capture in high-load displays was not the result of overall lengthening of reaction times (RTs) in this condition, since search for a single low-contrast target lengthened RTs but did not influence capture. These results, together with those of previous studies, suggest that perceptual load can modulate attentional capture by dynamic stimuli.
JS is a highly able, well-educated 37 year old man with Asperger syndrome. A recent qualitative paper (Boucher, 2007) described his self-report of verbal and visual memory difficulties. The present paper used the WMS-III to compare the memory profile of JS to that of the adults with HFA in the Williams et al. (2005) WMS-III paper. Results show that JS's self-report of his memory difficulties can by and large be supported, that JS's memory performance is at the lower end of the group examined in the Williams et al. (2005) paper, and that, unlike the group profile in Williams et al. (2005), JS shows reduced performance on both verbal and visual measures of memory. A qualitative analysis of JS's performance raises the possibility that JS is using language to retain details he can generalize over, as a compensatory strategy for some reductions in episodic memory.
Cells employ macroautophagy to deliver aggregates of misfolded and/or ubiquitinated proteins for lysosomal degradation or supply of essential macromolecules under conditions of nutrient deprivation. The former seems complementary to the proteasome system, which is likely to degrade only soluble proteins. While bulk degradation via the autophagy pathway during starvation is rather nonspecific, the recognition of proteins that are either misfolded or adopt a particular conformation and/or become ubiquitinated, requires some form of specificity. This is brought about, at least in part, by the scaffold and ubiquitin-binding protein, p62 (SQSTM1). p62 is a multidomain scaffold that sequesters other proteins and polymerizes through its Phox and Bem1p domains and binds K63-ubiquitinated proteins through its UBA domain. p62 interaction with LC3 appears critical for membrane encapsulation seen in autophagosomes. However, there is a growing body of evidence indicating that p62 is not exclusively involved in autophagy regulation, and that there are nonmembrane encapsulated, soluble subpopulations of p62 in cells. The role of these subpopulations has yet to be resolved, although one function appears to be to regulate signaling, as indicated through p62's ability to regulate NFB activation. Signaling through the ubiquitous cyclic AMP (cAMP) system is compartmentalized, with tethered subpopulations of cAMP-degrading phosphodiesterases sculpting cAMP gradients around specific signaling complexes so as to regulate them at a spatial level. We have recently demonstrated that p62 colocalizes with a specific conformer of the cAMP degrading phosphodiesterase, PDE4A4, so as to form reversible, membrane-free cytosolic aggregates lacking LC3. This results in PDE4A4 becoming sequestered away from signaling proteins that normally sequester it, providing a means of reprogramming compartmentalized cAMP signaling in cells.

Risk for alcohol dependence in humans has substantial genetic contributions. Successful rodent models generally attempt to address only selected features of the human diagnosis. Most such models target the phenotype of oral administration of alcohol solutions, usually consumption of or preference for an alcohol solution versus water. Data from rats and mice for more than 50 years have shown genetic influences on preference drinking and related phenotypes. This paper summarizes some key findings from that extensive literature. Much has been learned, including the genomic location and possible identity of several genes influencing preference drinking. We report new information from congenic lines confirming QTLs for drinking on mouse chromosomes 2 and 9. There are many strengths of the various phenotypic assays used to study drinking, but there are also some weaknesses. One major weakness, the lack of drinking excessively enough to become intoxicated, has recently been addressed with a new genetic animal model, mouse lines selectively bred for their high and intoxicating blood alcohol levels after a limited period of drinking in the circadian dark. We report here results from a second replicate of that selection and compare them with the first replicate.
We describe an original client-server approach to behavioral research control and the Whisker system, a specific implementation of this design. The server process controls several types of hardware, including digital input/output devices, multiple graphical monitors and touchscreens, keyboards, mice, and sound cards. It provides a way to access this hardware for client programs, communicating with them via a simple text-based network protocol based on the standard Internet protocol. Clients to implement behavioral tasks may be written in any network-capable programming language. Applications to date have been in experimental psychology and behavioral and cognitive neuroscience, using rodents, humans, nonhuman primates, dogs, pigs, and birds. This system is flexible and reliable, although there are potential disadvantages in terms of complexity. Its design, features, and performance are described.
Molecular mobility in membranes of intracellular organelles is poorly understood, due to the lack of experimental tools applicable for a great diversity of shapes and sizes such organelles can acquire. Determinations of diffusion within the plasma membrane or cytosol are based mostly on the assumption of an infinite flat space, not valid for curved membranes of smaller organelles. Here we extend the application of FRAP to mitochondria of living cells by application of numerical analysis to data collected from a small region inside a single organelle. The spatiotemporal pattern of light pulses generated by the laser scanning microscope during the measurement is reconstructed in silico and consequently the values of diffusion parameters best suited to the particular organelle are found. The mobility of the outer membrane proteins hFis and Tom7, as well as oxidative phosphorylation complexes COX and F(1)F(0) ATPase located in the inner membrane is analyzed in detail. Several alternative models of diffusivity applied to these proteins provide insight into the mechanisms determining the rate of motion in each of the membranes. Tom7 and hFis move along the mitochondrial axis in the outer membrane with similar diffusion coefficients (D=0.7m(2)/s and 0.6m(2)/s respectively) and equal immobile fraction (7%). The notably slower motion of the inner membrane proteins is best represented by a dual-component model with approximately equal partitioning of the fractions (F(1)F(0) ATPase: 0.4m(2)/s and 0.0005m(2)/s; COX: 0.3m(2)/s and 0.007m(2)/s). The mobility patterns specific for the membranes of this organelle are unambiguously distinguishable from those of the plasma membrane or artificial lipid environments: The parameters of mitochondrial proteins indicate a distinct set of factors responsible for their diffusion characteristics.
We have studied mitochondrial Ca(2+) transport and the permeability transition (PT) in the teleost zebrafish (Danio rerio), a key model system for human diseases. Permeabilized zebrafish embryo cells displayed a mitochondrial energy-dependent Ca(2+) uptake system that, like the Ca(2+) uniporter of mammals, was inhibited by ruthenium red. Zebrafish mitochondria underwent a Ca(2+)-dependent PT that displayed Pi-dependent desensitization by cyclosporin A, and responded appropriately to key modulators of the mammalian PT pore (voltage, pH, ubiquinone 0, dithiol oxidants and cross linkers, ligands of the adenine nucleotide translocator, arachidonic acid). Opening of the pore was documented in intact cells, where it led to death that could largely be prevented by cyclosporin A. Our results represent a necessary step toward the use of zebrafish for the screening and validation of PTP inhibitors of potential use in human diseases, as recently shown for collagen VI muscular dystrophy [Telfer et al., 2010].
This study was undertaken to evaluate the effects of streptozotocin (STZ)-induced hyperglycemia and insulin-induced hypoglycemia in cortical and hippocampal mitochondria bioenergetics and oxidative status. For that purpose we used, citrate (vehicle)-treated Wistar rats, STZ-treated rats [i.p., 50mg/kg body weight] and STZ-treated rats injected with insulin [s.c., dose adjusted to blood glucose levels] 1h prior to sacrifice to induce an acute episode of hypoglycemia. Several parameters were analyzed: respiratory chain, phosphorylation system, thiobarbituric acid reactive substances (TBARS) levels, hydrogen peroxide (H(2)O(2)) production rate, and non-enzymatic and enzymatic antioxidant defenses. Cortical mitochondria from insulin-induced hypoglycemic rats present a significant decrease in the ADP/O index, a significant increase in the repolarization lag phase and a decrease in GSH/GSSG ratio when compared with STZ and control mitochondria. Both STZ-induced diabetes and insulin-induced hypoglycemia promote a significant increase in TBARS levels and a decrease in glutathione disulfide reductase activity. Diabetic cortical mitochondria present a significant decrease in glutathione peroxidase (GPx) activity compared to control mitochondria. In turn, insulin-induced hypoglycemia induced a significant increase in GPx and manganese superoxide dismutase (MnSOD) activities. In hippocampal mitochondria, insulin-induced hypoglycemia increases the respiratory control ratio whereas both situations, hyper- and hypoglycemia, potentiate H(2)O(2) production and decrease the activity of MnSOD. These results suggest that the poor glycemic control that occurs in type 1 diabetic patients undergoing insulin therapy may have detrimental effects in brain areas involved in learning and memory.
Mitochondrial encephalomyopathies resulting from electron transport chain (ETC) dysfunction can present with a wide spectrum of clinical manifestations having significant neuropathology and a progressive nature. Despite advances in diagnosis of ETC disorders, treatment still remains inadequate. A recent study in fibroblasts and myoblasts revealed the ability of fibrate treatment to correct ETC enzyme deficiencies. Therefore, fibrates may represent potential therapeutic agents to correct the neurological ETC impairment responsible for the encephalopathic presentation of these disorders. Consequently, this study assessed the effect of bezafibrate on human astrocytoma (HA) 1321N cell ETC activity and coenzyme Q(10) (CoQ(10) ) status. HA cells were incubated for 72 H with 300 M or 500 M bezafibrate and for 7 days with only 500 M bezafibrate. A significant effect on ETC activity was observed after 7 days incubation with 500 M bezafibrate yielding a 130% (P &lt; 0.05) increase in complex IV activity, accompanied by a 33% (P &lt; 0.05) increase in cellular ATP level and a 25% (P &lt; 0.001) decrease in extracellular lactate/pyruvate ratio compared to control levels. Following 7 days culture with bezafibrate, the CoQ(10) status of the HA cells appeared to increase although this was not found to be significant. The results of this study have indicated evidence of a bezafibrate induced increase in ETC complex IV activity. Further studies are required to assess the ability of bezafibrate treatment to correct neurological ETC impairment in available animal models of ETC dysfunction before the therapeutic efficacy of this pharmacological agent can be further considered in the treatment of the encephalopathic presentation of ETC disorders.
Badcock and Crespi have advanced the hypothesis that autism and schizophrenia are caused by imbalanced imprinting in the brain. They argue that an imbalance between the effects of paternally and maternally expressed genes on brain development results in either an extreme paternal (autism) or maternal brain (schizophrenia). In this paper their conceptual model is discussed and criticized since it presupposes an incoherent distinction between observable physical and hidden mental phenomena. An alternative model is discussed that may be more fruitful for investigating the possible role of imprinted genes in the development of social behaviour. The development of crying and reactive crying and behaviours necessary for collaborative action are discussed as a promising research area for understanding the effects of imprinted genes.





The most selective disorder of central conceptual knowledge arises in semantic dementia, a degenerative condition associated with bilateral atrophy of the inferior and polar regions of the temporal lobes. Likewise, semantic impairment in both herpes simplex virus encephalitis and Alzheimer's disease is typically associated with bilateral, anterior temporal pathology. These findings suggest that conceptual representations are supported via an interconnected, bilateral, anterior temporal network and that it may take damage to both sides to produce an unequivocal deficit of central semantic memory. We tested and supported this hypothesis by investigating a case series of 20 patients with unilateral temporal damage (following vascular accident or resection for tumour or epilepsy), utilizing a test battery that is sensitive to semantic impairment in semantic dementia. Only 1/20 of the cases, with a unilateral left lesion, exhibited even a mild impairment on the receptive semantic measures. On the expressive semantic tests of naming and fluency, average performance was worse in the left- than right-unilateral cases, but even in this domain, only one left-lesion case had scores consistently more than two standard deviations below control means. These results fit with recent parallel explorations of semantic function using repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation as well as functional imaging in stroke aphasic and neurologically intact participants. The evidence suggests that both left and right anterior temporal lobe regions contribute to the representation of semantic memory and together may form a relatively damage-resistant, robust system for this critical aspect of higher cognition.
The study of patients with semantic dementia, a variant of frontotemporal lobar degeneration, has emerged over the last two decades as an important lesion model for studying human semantic memory. Although it is well-known that semantic dementia is associated with temporal lobe degeneration, controversy remains over whether the semantic deficit is due to diffuse temporal lobe damage, damage to only a sub-region of the temporal lobe or even less severe damage elsewhere in the brain. The manner in which the right and left temporal lobes contribute to semantic knowledge is also not fully elucidated. In this study we used unbiased imaging analyses to correlate resting cerebral glucose metabolism and behavioural scores in tests of verbal and non-verbal semantic memory. In addition, a region of interest analysis was performed to evaluate the role of severely hypometabolic areas. The best, indeed the only, strong predictor of semantic scores across a set of 21 patients with frontotemporal lobar degeneration with semantic impairment was degree of hypometabolism in the anterior fusiform region subjacent to the head and body of the hippocampus. As hypometabolism in the patients' rostral fusiform was even more extreme than the abnormality in other regions with putative semantic relevance, such as the temporal poles, the significant fusiform correlations cannot be attributed to floor-level function in these other regions. More detailed analysis demonstrated more selective correlations: left anterior fusiform function predicted performance on two expressive verbal tasks, whereas right anterior fusiform metabolism predicted performance on a non-verbal test of associative semantic knowledge. This pattern was further supported by an additional behavioural study performed on a wider cohort of patients with semantic dementia, in which the patients with more extensive right-temporal atrophy (when matched on degree of naming deficit to a set of cases with more extensive left temporal atrophy) were significantly more impaired on the test of non-verbal semantics. Our preferred interpretation of this laterality effect involves differential strength of connectivity between different regions of a widespread semantic network in the human brain.
Disabling fatigue is a symptom in a number of neurological diseases, including multiple sclerosis, stroke and Parkinson's disease. We used F-dopa and C-DASB [N,N-dimethyl-2-(2-amino-4-cyanophenylthio) benzylamine] positron emission tomography, markers of dopamine storage capacity and serotonin transporter availability, to investigate whether fatigue in Parkinson's disease is associated with dopaminergic and serotonergic dysfunction in basal ganglia and limbic circuits. Ten patients with Parkinson's disease and fatigue and 10 patients without fatigue had a F-dopa scan. Seven patients with and eight patients without fatigue also had a C-DASB scan. The two groups were matched for age, disease duration and severity and daily intake of levodopa equivalent units. None had a history of depression or sleep disturbance. Using a region of interest analytical approach, we found that patients with fatigue had significantly lower serotonin transporter binding than patients without fatigue in the caudate, putamen, ventral striatum and thalamus. Striatal F-dopa uptake was similar in the fatigued and non-fatigued groups. Voxel-based analysis localized further relative serotonin transporter binding reductions in the cingulate and amygdala of the fatigue group, and F-dopa uptake reductions in the caudate and insula. We conclude that fatigue in Parkinson's disease is associated with reduced serotonergic function in the basal ganglia and limbic structures. Insular dopaminergic dysfunction could also play a role. These findings imply that strategies to increase brain level of serotonin would be a rational approach for relieving fatigue symptoms in Parkinson's disease and may also be relevant to alleviating fatigue in other clinical conditions.
Concussive head injury opens a temporary window of brain vulnerability due to the impairment of cellular energetic metabolism. As experimentally demonstrated, a second mild injury occurring during this period can lead to severe brain damage, a condition clinically described as the second impact syndrome. To corroborate the validity of proton magnetic resonance spectroscopy in monitoring cerebral metabolic changes following mild traumatic brain injury, apart from the magnetic field strength (1.5 or 3.0 T) and mode of acquisition, we undertook a multicentre prospective study in which a cohort of 40 athletes suffering from concussion and a group of 30 control healthy subjects were admitted. Athletes (aged 16-35 years) were recruited and examined at three different institutions between September 2007 and June 2009. They underwent assessment of brain metabolism at 3, 15, 22 and 30 days post-injury through proton magnetic resonance spectroscopy for the determination of N-acetylaspartate, creatine and choline-containing compounds. Values of these representative brain metabolites were compared with those observed in the group of non-injured controls. Comparison of spectroscopic data, obtained in controls using different field strength and/or mode of acquisition, did not show any difference in the brain metabolite ratios. Athletes with concussion exhibited the most significant alteration of metabolite ratios at Day 3 post-injury (N-acetylaspartate/creatine: -17.6%, N-acetylaspartate/choline: -21.4%; P&lt;0.001 with respect to controls). On average, metabolic disturbance gradually recovered, initially in a slow fashion and, following Day 15, more rapidly. At 30 days post-injury, all athletes showed complete recovery, having metabolite ratios returned to values detected in controls. Athletes self-declared symptom clearance between 3 and 15 days after concussion. Results indicate that N-acetylaspartate determination by proton magnetic resonance spectroscopy represents a non-invasive tool to accurately measure changes in cerebral energy metabolism occurring in mild traumatic brain injury. In particular, this metabolic evaluation may significantly improve, along with other clinical assessments, the management of athletes suffering from concussion. Further studies to verify the effects of a second concussive event occurring at different time points of the recovery curve of brain metabolism are needed.
Excitotoxicity is a mechanism of neuronal cell death implicated in a range of neurodegenerative conditions. Systemic administration of the excitotoxin kainic acid (KA) induces inflammation and apoptosis in the hippocampus, resulting in neuronal loss. Evidence indicates that stimulation of glial (2)-adrenoceptors has anti-inflammatory and neurotrophic properties that could result in neuroprotection. Consequently, in this study we examined the effect of the (2)-adrenoceptor agonist clenbuterol on KA-induced inflammation, neurotrophic factor expression and apoptosis in the hippocampus. Clenbuterol (0.5mg/kg) was administered to rats one hour prior to KA (10mg/kg). Epileptic behaviour induced by KA was assessed for three hours following administration using the Racine scale. Twenty-four hours later TUNEL staining in the CA3 hippocampal subfield and hippocampal caspase-3 activity was assessed to measure KA-induced apoptosis. In addition, expression of inflammatory cytokines (IL-1 and IFN-), inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS), kynurenine pathway enzymes indolamine 2,3-dioxygenase (IDO) and kynurenine monooxygenase (KMO), the microglial activation marker CD11b, and the neurotrophins BDNF and NGF were quantified in the hippocampus using real-time PCR. Whilst clenbuterol treatment did not significantly alter KA-induced epileptic behavior it ameliorated KA-induced apoptosis, and this neuroprotective effect was accompanied by reduced inflammatory cytokine expression, reduced expression of iNOS, IDO, KMO and CD11b, coupled with increased BDNF and NGF expression in KA-treated rats. In conclusion, the (2)-adrenoceptor agonist clenbuterol has anti-inflammatory and neurotrophic actions and elicits a neuroprotective effect in the KA model of neurodegeneration.
Anti-beta-amyloid (A) immunotherapy is effective in removing brain A, but has shown to be associated with detrimental effects. We have demonstrated that Adeno-associated virus (AAV)-mediated delivery of an anti-A single chain antibody (scFv) gene was effective in clearing brain A without eliciting any inflammatory side effects in old APP(Swe)/PS1dE9 transgenic mice. In the present study, we tested the efficacy and safety of intramuscular delivery of the scFv gene in preventing brain A deposition. The scFv gene was intramuscularly delivered to APP(Swe)/PS1dE9 transgenic mice at 3 months of age, prior to A deposition in the brain. Six months later, we found that the transgenes were expressed in a stable form at the delivered sites, with a small amount of ectopic expression in the liver and olfactory bulb. Brain A plaque formation, A accumulation, AD-type pathologies and cognitive impairment were significantly attenuated in scFv-treated APP(Swe)/PS1dE9 transgenic mice relative to EGFP-treated mice. Intramuscular delivery of scFv gene was well tolerated by the animals, did not cause inflammation or microhemorrhage at the gene expression site and in the brain, and did not induce neutralizing antibodies in the animals. These findings suggest that peripheral application of scFv is effective and safe in preventing the development of Alzheimer's disease (AD), and would be a promising non-inflammatory immunological modality for prevention and treatment of AD.
Building on our previous neurocomputational models of basal ganglia and hippocampal region function (and their modulation by dopamine and acetylcholine, respectively), we show here how an integration of these models can inform our understanding of the interaction between the basal ganglia and hippocampal region in associative learning and transfer generalization across various patient populations. As a common test bed for exploring interactions between these brain regions and neuromodulators, we focus on the acquired equivalence task, an associative learning paradigm in which stimuli that have been associated with the same outcome acquire a functional similarity such that subsequent generalization between these stimuli increases. This task has been used to test cognitive dysfunction in various patient populations with damages to the hippocampal region and basal ganglia, including studies of patients with Parkinson's disease (PD), schizophrenia, basal forebrain amnesia, and hippocampal atrophy. Simulation results show that damage to the hippocampal region-as in patients with hippocampal atrophy (HA), hypoxia, mild Alzheimer's (AD), or schizophrenia-leads to intact associative learning but impaired transfer generalization performance. Moreover, the model demonstrates how PD and anterior communicating artery (ACoA) aneurysm-two very different brain disorders that affect different neural mechanisms-can have similar effects on acquired equivalence performance. In particular, the model shows that simulating a loss of dopamine function in the basal ganglia module (as in PD) leads to slow acquisition learning but intact transfer generalization. Similarly, the model shows that simulating the loss of acetylcholine in the hippocampal region (as in ACoA aneurysm) also results in slower acquisition learning. We argue from this that changes in associative learning of stimulus-action pathways (in the basal ganglia) or changes in the learning of stimulus representations (in the hippocampal region) can have similar functional effects.

This study reports on the characteristics and distribution of naming errors of patients undergoing cortical stimulation mapping (CSM). During the procedure, electrical stimulation is used to induce temporary functional lesions and locate 'essential' language areas for preservation. Under stimulation, patients are shown slides of common objects and asked to name them. Cortical stimulation can lead to a variety of naming errors. In the present study, we aggregate errors across patients to examine the neuroanatomical correlates and linguistic characteristics of six common errors: semantic paraphasias, circumlocutions, phonological paraphasias, neologisms, performance errors, and no-response errors. Aiding analysis, we relied on a suite of web-based querying and imaging tools that enabled the summative mapping of normalized stimulation sites. Errors were visualized and analyzed by type and location. We provide descriptive statistics to characterize the commonality of errors across patients and location. The errors observed suggest a widely distributed and heterogeneous cortical network that gives rise to differential patterning of paraphasic errors. Data are discussed in relation to emerging models of language representation that honor distinctions between frontal, parietal, and posterior temporal dorsal implementation systems and ventral-temporal lexical semantic and phonological storage and assembly regions; the latter of which may participate both in language comprehension and production.
Gait disturbance, one of the axial symptoms, is caused by various disorders, including basal ganglia disease. Deep brain stimulation (DBS) has widened the spectrum of therapeutic options for patients with gait disturbance due to Parkinson disease and dystonia. In gait disturbance caused by basal ganglia disease, the main targets of DBS are the subthalamic nucleus (STN) and globus pallidus internus (GPi). STN DBS is more than GPi DBS effective for treating levodopa-responsive parkinsonian symptoms, including gait disturbance. GPi DBS is effective for the treatment of primary segmental or generalized dystonia. The pedunculopontine tegmental nucleus (PPN), which is involved in locomotion, is one of the new targets for treating gait disturbance in Parkinson disease. We review DBS in the treatment of gait disturbance due to Parkinson disease and dystonia.

The care of chronically unconscious patients raises vexing medical, ethical, and social questions concerning diagnosis, prognosis, communication with family members, and decision making, including the withdrawal of life support. We provide updates on major controversies surrounding disorders of consciousness. Issues such as withdrawal of artificial nutrition and hydration - which had been considered &quot;settled&quot; by many in the medical, legal and ethical communities - have resurfaced under the pressure of social groups and religious authorities. Some assumptions about the level of awareness and the prognosis of vegetative state and minimal conscious patients are questioned by advances in clinical care because of insights produced by neuroscience research techniques, particularly functional neuroimaging. Both the clinical and neuroscience dimensions of disorders of consciousness raise complex issues such as resource allocation and high levels of diagnostic inaccuracies (at least, for the vegetative state). We conclude by highlighting areas needing further research and collaboration.
We describe the evolution of neuropathology in Canada, beginning with William Osler who began working in Montral in 1874 and finishing with the major period of expansion in the 1970s. Organized services began in the 1930s, in Montral with the neurosurgeons Wilder Penfield and William Cone, and in Toronto with Eric Linell and Mary Tom, who both began their careers as neuroanatomists. Jerzy Olszewski and Gordon Mathieson, who trained in Montral and Toronto, drove the creation of the Canadian Association of Neuropathologists in 1960. Training guided by the Royal College of Physicians and Surgeons of Canada was formalized in 1965, with the first certifying examination in 1968 and the subsequent creation of formal structured training programs. The number of neuropathologists in Canada increased rapidly through the 1960s and 1970s, with individuals coming from both clinical neuroscience and anatomic pathology backgrounds, a pattern that persists to the present day.

As clinical and cognitive neuroscience mature, the need for sophisticated neuroimaging analysis becomes more apparent. Multivariate analysis techniques have recently received increasing attention as they have many attractive features that cannot be easily realized by the more commonly used univariate, voxel-wise, techniques. Multivariate approaches evaluate correlation/covariance of activation across brain regions, rather than proceeding on a voxel-by-voxel basis. Thus, their results can be more easily interpreted as a signature of neural networks. Univariate approaches, on the other hand, cannot directly address functional connectivity in the brain. The covariance approach can also result in greater statistical power when compared with univariate techniques, which are forced to employ very stringent, and often overly conservative, corrections for voxel-wise multiple comparisons. Multivariate techniques also lend themselves much better to prospective application of results from the analysis of one dataset to entirely new datasets. Multivariate techniques are thus well placed to provide information about mean differences and correlations with behavior, similarly to univariate approaches, with potentially greater statistical power and better reproducibility checks. In contrast to these advantages is the high barrier of entry to the use of multivariate approaches, preventing more widespread application in the community. To the neuroscientist becoming familiar with multivariate analysis techniques, an initial survey of the field might present a bewildering variety of approaches that, although algorithmically similar, are presented with different emphases, typically by people with mathematics backgrounds. We believe that multivariate analysis techniques have sufficient potential to warrant better dissemination. Researchers should be able to employ them in an informed and accessible manner. The following article attempts to provide a basic introduction with sample applications to simulated and real-world data sets.
Advances in fluorescence live cell imaging over the last decade have revolutionized cell biology by providing access to single-cell information in space and time. One current limitation of live-cell imaging is the lack of automated procedures to analyze single-cell data in large cell populations. Most commercially available image processing softwares do not have built-in image segmentation tools that can automatically and accurately extract single-cell data in a time series. Consequently, individual cells are usually identified manually, a process which is time consuming and inherently low-throughput. We have developed a MATLAB-based image segmentation algorithm that reliably detects individual cells in dense populations and measures their fluorescence intensity over time. To demonstrate the value of this algorithm, we measured store-operated calcium entry (SOCE) in hundreds of individual cells. Rapid access to single-cell calcium signals in large populations allowed us to precisely determine the relationship between SOCE activity and STIM1 levels, a key component of SOCE. Our image processing tool can in principle be applied to a wide range of live-cell imaging modalities and cell-based drug screening platforms.
Apoptosis signal-regulating kinase 1 (ASK1) is an evolutionarily conserved mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) kinase kinase and has an important role in stress-induced retinal ganglion cell (RGC) apoptosis. In the mammalian retina, glutamate/aspartate transporter (GLAST) is a major glutamate transporter, and the loss of GLAST leads to optic nerve degeneration similar to normal tension glaucoma (NTG). In GLAST(/) mice, the glutathione level in the retina is decreased, suggesting the involvement of oxidative stress in NTG pathogenesis. To test this hypothesis, we examined the histology and visual function of GLAST(+/):ASK1(/) and GLAST(/):ASK1(/) mice by multifocal electroretinograms. ASK1 deficiency protected RGCs and decreased the number of degenerating axons in the optic nerve. Consistent with this finding, visual function was significantly improved in GLAST(+/):ASK1(/) and GLAST(/):ASK1(/) mice compared with GLAST(+/) and GLAST(/) mice, respectively. The loss of ASK1 had no effects on the production of glutathione or malondialdehyde in the retina or on the intraocular pressure. Tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-induced activation of p38 MAPK and the production of inducible nitric oxide synthase were suppressed in ASK1-deficient Mller glial cells. In addition, TNF-induced cell death was suppressed in ASK1-deficient RGCs. These results suggest that ASK1 activation is involved in NTG-like pathology in both neural and glial cells and that interrupting ASK1-dependent pathways could be beneficial in the treatment of glaucoma, including NTG.
Caveolin proteins physically interact with and compartmentalize membrane-localized signaling proteins to facilitate high-fidelity intracellular signaling. Though primarily studied outside the nervous system, recent investigations have revealed that caveolin proteins are key modulators of a variety of neuronal intracellular signaling pathways. Through both protein aggregation and segregation, caveolin proteins can exert positive and negative influences on intracellular signaling. This review will detail recent findings regarding caveolin function in the brain.
The P2X4 receptor (P2X4R) is a member of a family of ATP-gated cation channels that are composed of three subunits. Each subunit has two transmembrane (TM) domains linked by a large extracellular loop and intracellularly located N- and C-termini. The receptors are expressed in excitable and non-excitable cells and have been implicated in the modulation of membrane excitability, calcium signaling, neurotransmitter and hormone release, and pain physiology. P2X4Rs activate rapidly and desensitize within the seconds of agonist application, both with the rates dependent on ATP concentrations, and deactivate rapidly and independently of ATP concentration. Disruption of conserved cysteine ectodomain residues affects ATP binding and gating. Several ectodomain residues of P2X4R were identified as critical for ATP binding, including K67, K313, and R295. Ectodomain residues also account for the allosteric regulation of P2X4R; H140 is responsible for copper binding and H286 regulates receptor functions with protons. Ivermectin sensitized receptors, amplified the current amplitude, and slowed receptor deactivation by binding in the TM region. Scanning mutagenesis of TMs revealed the helical topology of both domains, and suggested that receptor function is critically dependent on the conserved Y42 residue. In this brief article, we summarize this study and re-interpret it using a model based on crystallization of the zebrafish P2X4.1 receptor.
Pituitary adenylate cyclase-activating polypeptide (PACAP) is a co-transmitter with acetylcholine at the adrenomedullary synapse, mediating sustained hormone secretion and regulation of cellular plasticity in response to stress at the level of gene transcription. Here we have extended our investigation of PACAP-regulated neuroendocrine cell-specific genes from PC12 cells to PC12 cells expressing physiological levels of the PAC1hop receptor found on chromaffin cells in vivo. PACAP induces in these PC12_bPAC1hop cells an additional cohort of genes, compared to PC12 cells, enriched in informational molecules including cytokines, neuropeptides, and growth factors. Using two newly developed microarray platforms for expressed bovine transcripts, we further examined PACAP-induced genes in bovine chromaffin cells during a period of exposure (6 h) corresponding to a period of prolonged metabolic or psychogenic stress in vivo during which PACAP is released from the splanchnic nerve onto chromaffin cells. As in PC12_bPAC1hop cells, PACAP induced in bovine chromaffin cells a cohort of genes encoding secretory proteins, identified by tiling for cellular localization using Ingenuity Pathway Analysis, which were highly enriched in informational molecules (secreted proteins acting at extracellular receptors). These included cytokines, growth factors and hormones, as well as converting enzymes, or protease inhibitors modulating converting enzyme function. Several neuropeptide prohormone transcripts not previously shown to be PACAP-regulated in chromaffin cells, such as thyrotropin-releasing hormone, and tachykinin precursor 1, were identified. Identification of this cohort of informational molecule-encoding transcripts suggests a wider, more integrative role for PACAP as a co-transmitter specific to stress transduction in the adrenal medulla.

GTPases of the Rho family are molecular switches that play an important role in a wide range of membrane-trafficking processes including neurotransmission and hormone release. We have previously demonstrated that RhoA and Cdc42 regulate calcium-dependent exocytosis in chromaffin cells by controlling actin dynamics, whereas Rac1 regulates lipid organisation. These findings raised the question of the upstream mechanism activating these GTPases during exocytosis. The guanine nucleotide exchange factors (GEFs) that catalyse the exchange of GDP for GTP are crucial elements regulating Rho signalling. Using an RNA interference approach, we have recently demonstrated that the GEFs Intersectin-1L and -Pix, play essential roles in neuroendocrine exocytosis by controlling the activity of Cdc42 and Rac1, respectively. This review summarizes these results and discusses the functional importance of Rho GEFs in the exocytotic machinery in neuroendocrine cells.
Regulated exocytosis of neurotransmitter- and hormone-containing vesicles underpins neuronal and hormonal communication and relies on a well-orchestrated series of molecular interactions. This in part involves the upstream formation of a complex of SNAREs and associated proteins leading to the eventual fusion of the vesicle membrane with the plasma membrane, a process that enables content release. Although the role of lipids in exocytosis is intuitive, it has long been overlooked at least compared to the extensive work on SNAREs. Here, we will present the latest advances in this rapidly developing field revealing that lipids actually play an active role in exocytosis by focusing on cholesterol, 3'-phosphorylated phosphoinositides and phosphatidic acid.
Chromogranin A (CgA) is an acidic glycoprotein belonging to a family of regulated secretory proteins stored in the dense core granules of the adrenal medulla and of many other neuroendocrine cells and neurons. This protein is frequently used as a diagnostic and prognostic serum marker for a range of neuroendocrine tumors. Circulating CgA is also increased in patients with other diseases, including subpopulations of patients with non-neuroendocrine tumors, with important prognostic implications. A growing body of evidence suggests that CgA is more than a diagnostic/prognostic marker for cancer patients. Indeed, results of in vitro experiments and in vivo studies in animal models suggest that this protein and its fragments can affect several elements of the tumor microenvironment, including fibroblasts and endothelial cells. In this article, recent findings implicating CgA as a modulator of the tumor microenvironment and suggesting that abnormal secretion of CgA could play important roles in tumor progression and response to therapy in cancer patients are reviewed and discussed.
Coffin-Lowry syndrome (CLS) is a syndromic form of X-linked mental retardation, characterized in male patients by psychomotor and growth retardation and various skeletal anomalies. CLS is caused by mutations in the RPS6KA3 gene, which encodes RSK2, a growth factor-regulated protein kinase. Cognitive deficiencies in CLS patients are prominent, but markedly variable in severity, even between siblings. However, the vast majority of patients are severely affected, with mental retardation ranging from moderate to profound. We used a RSK2-KO mouse model that shows no obvious brain abnormalities at the anatomical and histological levels to study the function of RSK2 in neurosecretion. Behavioral studies revealed normal motor coordination, but a profound retardation in spatial learning and a deficit in long-term spatial memory, providing evidence that RSK2 plays similar roles in mental functioning both in mice and human. We found that associative LTP at cortical inputs to the lateral amygdala was blocked in Rsk2 KO mice. Using an RNA interference rescue strategy in PC12 cells, we were able to demonstrate that RSK2 regulates catecholamine release through the phosphorylation of PLD. These results provide the first molecular evidence that RSK2 could regulate neurotransmitter release by activating PLD production of lipids required for exocytosis.
Expression of carboxypeptidase E (CPE), a prohormone processing enzyme in different cancer types, was analyzed from data in the GEO profile database (http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/geo/) and experimentally in pheochromocytomas. Analysis of microarray data demonstrated that significantly elevated levels of CPE mRNA was found in many metastatic non-endocrine cancers: cervical, colon rectal, renal cancers, Ewing sarcomas (bone cancer), and various types of astrocytomas and oligodendrogliomas, whereas expression of CPE mRNA was virtually absent in their respective counterpart normal tissues. Moreover, there was higher CPE mRNA expression in cells from the metastatic tumor compared to those from the primary tumor in colorectal cancer. Elevated CPE mRNA expression was found in neuroendocrine tumors in lung and pituitary adenomas, although the significance is unclear since endocrine and neuroendocrine cells normally express CPE. However, studies of neuroendocrine tumors, pheochromocytomas, revealed expression of not only wild-type CPE, but a variant which was correlated with tumor behavior. Extremely high CPE mRNA copy numbers of the variant were found in very large or invasive tumors, both of which usually indicate poor prognosis. Thus, collectively the data suggest that CPE may play a role in promoting tumor growth and invasion. CPE could potentially serve as a diagnostic and prognostic biomarker for metastasis in different cancer types.
Catecholamines and other transmitters released from adrenal chromaffin cells play central roles in the &quot;fight-or-flight&quot; response and exert profound effects on cardiovascular, endocrine, immune, and nervous system function. As such, precise regulation of chromaffin cell exocytosis is key to maintaining normal physiological function and appropriate responsiveness to acute stress. Chromaffin cells express a number of different G protein coupled receptors (GPCRs) that sense the local environment and orchestrate this precise control of transmitter release. The primary trigger for catecholamine release is Ca2+ entry through voltage-gated Ca2+ channels, so it makes sense that these channels are subject to complex regulation by GPCRs. In particular G protein  heterodimers (Gbc) bind to and inhibit Ca2+ channels. Here I review the mechanisms by which GPCRs inhibit Ca2+ channels in chromaffin cells and how this might be altered by cellular context. This is related to the potent autocrine inhibition of Ca2+ entry and transmitter release seen in chromaffin cells. Recent data that implicate an additional inhibitory target of G on the exocytotic machinery and how this might fine tune neuroendocrine secretion are also discussed.
Based on concepts proposed by Langley, Cannon, and Selye, adrenal responses to stress occur in a syndrome that reflects activation of the sympathoadrenal system and hypothalamicpituitaryadrenocortical (HPA) axis; and a &quot;stress syndrome&quot; maintains homeostasis in emergencies such as &quot;fight or flight&quot; situations, but if the stress response is excessive or prolonged then any of a variety of clinical disorders can arise. The idea of a unitary sympathoadrenal system does not account for evidence that different stressors elicit different patterns of autonomic responses, with exposure to some stressors differentially affecting sympathetic noradrenergic and adrenomedullary hormonal activities. Instead, adrenomedullary responses to stressors are more closely tied to adrenocortical than to sympathetic noradrenergic responses. Distress involves concurrent activation of the HPA and adrenomedullary neuroendocrine systems.
Glucose-induced insulin secretion is a cardinal process in glucose homeostasis and metabolic expenditure. Uncoupling of the insulin response to glucose variations may lead to type-2 diabetes mellitus. Thus the identification of more specific drugs to facilitate the study of insulin secretion mechanisms and to develop new pharmacological agents for therapeutics is fundamental. Venomous organisms possess a great diversity of toxic molecules and some of them are neurotoxins that affect membrane excitability. This article reviews properties of those toxins affecting ion channels pivotal for insulin secretion and the usefulness of such compounds in the study of pancreatic beta-cell physiology. Here we examine the major contributions of toxinology to the understanding of the ionic phase of insulin secretion, to the determination of ion channel composition in different insulin secreting cell-line models as well as from primary cultures of different mammal species. Finally, we present a summary of the many diverse toxins affecting insulin release and a brief discussion of the potential of novel toxins in therapeutics.
A rapid drop of the transcription repressor REST/NRSF during precursor differentiation into nerve cells is known to release the repression of hundreds of specific genes and thus to orchestrate the acquisition of the specific phenotype. REST, however, is important not only for differentiation, but also for the maintenance of key properties in mature nerve cell. The PC12 line is uniquely favorable for studying REST because, in addition to the wild-type, low REST neurosecretory cells, it includes spontaneously defective clones lacking neurosecretion, where REST is as high as in non-nerve cells. In this article, we summarize our cell biologic studies of two nerve cell-specific processes dependent on REST, neurosecretion and neurite outgrowth. We demonstrate that, in wild-type PC12 transfected with REST constructs, expression of genes encoding proteins of dense-core and synaptic-like vesicles is decreased, though, to different extents, with chromogranins being the most and the SNAREs (except SNAP25) the least affected. Concomitantly, dense core-vesicles decrease markedly in size but can still be discharged by regulated exocytosis. When, in contrast, dominant-negative constructs of REST are transfected in high-REST PC12, and the main effector enzymes of REST, histone deacetylases, are blocked, dense-core vesicles reappear and are discharged upon stimulation. In high-REST PC12, also neurite outgrowth is inhibited by down regulation of the NGF receptor. Concomitantly, however, high REST induces the expression of proteins and of an exocytic organelle, the enlargeosome, which sustain a Rac1-dependent form of neurite outgrowth, unknown until now, operative in PC12, in neuroblastoma SH-SY5Y cells, and also in neurons.
Regulator of G protein signaling 19 (RGS19), also known as Galpha-interacting protein (GAIP), is a GTPase activating protein (GAP) for Galpha(i) subunits. Apart from its GAP function, RGS19 has been implicated in growth factor signaling through binding to GAIP-interacting protein C-terminus (GIPC) via its C-terminal PDZ-binding motif. To gain additional insight on its function, we have stably expressed RGS19 in a number of mammalian cell lines and examined its effect on cell proliferation. Interestingly, overexpression of RGS19 stimulated the growth of HEK293, PC12, Caco2, and NIH3T3 cells. This growth promoting effect was not shared by other RGS proteins including RGS4, RGS10 and RGS20. Despite its ability to stimulate cell proliferation, RGS19 failed to induce neoplastic transformation in NIH3T3 cells as determined by focus formation and soft-agar assays, and it did not induce tumor growth in athymic nude mice. Deletion mutants of RGS19 lacking the PDZ-binding motif failed to complex with GIPC and did not exhibit any growth promoting effect. Overexpression of GIPC alone in HEK293 cells stimulated cell proliferation whereas its knockdown in H1299 non-small cell lung carcinomas suppressed cell proliferation. This study demonstrates that RGS19, in addition to acting as a GAP, is able to stimulate cell proliferation in a GIPC-dependent manner.

Slow-wave sleep is characterized by spontaneous alternations of activity and silence in corticothalamic networks, but the causes of transition from silence to activity remain unknown. We investigated local mechanisms underlying initiation of activity, using simultaneous multisite field potential, multiunit recordings, and intracellular recordings from 2 to 4 nearby neurons in naturally sleeping or anesthetized cats. We demonstrate that activity may start in any neuron or recording location, with tens of milliseconds delay in other cells and sites. Typically, however, activity originated at deep locations, then involved some superficial cells, but appeared later in the middle of the cortex. Neuronal firing was also found to begin, after the onset of active states, at depths that correspond to cortical layer V. These results support the hypothesis that switch from silence to activity is mediated by spontaneous synaptic events, whereby any neuron may become active first. Due to probabilistic nature of activity onset, the large pyramidal cells from deep cortical layers, which are equipped with the most numerous synaptic inputs and large projection fields, are best suited for switching the whole network into active state.
Although there is an emerging consensus that the anterior temporal lobes (ATLs) are involved in semantic memory, it is currently unclear which specific parts of this region are implicated in semantic representation. Answers to this question are difficult to glean from the existing literature for 3 reasons: 1) lesions of relevant patient groups tend to encompass the whole ATL region; 2) while local effects of repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation (rTMS) are spatially more specific, only the lateral aspects of the ATL are available to stimulation; and 3) until recently, functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) studies were hindered by technical limitations such as signal distortion and dropout due to magnetic inhomogeneities and also, in some cases, by methodological factors, including a restricted field of view and the choice of baseline contrast for subtraction analysis. By utilizing the same semantic task across semantic dementia, rTMS, and distortion-corrected fMRI in normal participants, we directly compared the results across the 3 methods for the first time. The findings were highly convergent and indicated that crucial regions within the ATL for semantic representation include the anterior inferior temporal gyrus, anterior fusiform gyrus, and the anterior superior temporal sulcus.
The cholinergic basal forebrain projects throughout the neocortex, exerting a critical role in modulating plasticity associated with normal learning. Cholinergic modulation of cortical plasticity could arise from 3 distinct mechanisms by 1) &quot;direct&quot; modulation via cholinergic inputs to regions undergoing plasticity, 2) &quot;indirect&quot; modulation via cholinergic projections to anterior, prefrontal attentional systems, or 3) modulating more global aspects of processing via distributed inputs throughout the cortex. To segregate these potential mechanisms, we investigated cholinergic-dependent reorganization of cortical motor representations in rats undergoing skilled motor learning. Behavioral and electrophysiological consequences of depleting cholinergic inputs to either motor cortex, prefrontal cortex, or globally, were compared. We find that local depletion of cholinergic afferents to motor cortex significantly disrupts map plasticity and skilled motor behavior, whereas prefrontal cholinergic depletion has no effect on these measures. Global cholinergic depletion perturbs map plasticity comparable with motor cortex depletions but results in significantly greater impairments in skilled motor acquisition. These findings indicate that local cholinergic activation within motor cortex, as opposed to indirect regulation of prefrontal systems, modulate cortical map plasticity and motor learning. More globally acting cholinergic mechanisms provide additional support for the acquisition of skilled motor behaviors, beyond those associated with cortical map reorganization.
Combining transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) with concurrent functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) allows study of how local brain stimulation may causally affect activity in remote brain regions. Here, we applied bursts of high- or low-intensity TMS over right posterior parietal cortex, during a task requiring sustained covert visuospatial attention to either the left or right hemifield, or in a neutral control condition, while recording blood oxygenation-level-dependent signal with a posterior MR surface coil. As expected, the active attention conditions activated components of the well-described &quot;attention network,&quot; as compared with the neutral baseline. Also as expected, when comparing left minus right attention, or vice versa, contralateral occipital visual cortex was activated. The critical new finding was that the impact of high- minus low-intensity parietal TMS upon these visual regions depended on the currently attended side. High- minus low-intensity parietal TMS increased the difference between contralateral versus ipsilateral attention in right extrastriate visual cortex. A related albeit less pronounced pattern was found for left extrastriate visual cortex. Our results confirm that right human parietal cortex can exert attention-dependent influences on occipital visual cortex and provide a proof of concept for the use of concurrent TMS-fMRI in studying how remote influences can vary in a purely top-down manner with attentional demands.
Analogical reasoning is central to learning and abstract thinking. It involves using a more familiar situation (source) to make inferences about a less familiar situation (target). According to the predominant cognitive models, analogical reasoning includes 1) generation of structured mental representations and 2) mapping based on structural similarities between them. This study used functional magnetic resonance imaging to specify the role of rostral prefrontal cortex (PFC) in these distinct processes. An experimental paradigm was designed that enabled differentiation between these processes, by temporal separation of the presentation of the source and the target. Within rostral PFC, a lateral subregion was activated by analogy task both during study of the source (before the source could be compared with a target) and when the target appeared. This may suggest that this subregion supports fundamental analogy processes such as generating structured representations of stimuli but is not specific to one particular processing stage. By contrast, a dorsomedial subregion of rostral PFC showed an interaction between task (analogy vs. control) and period (more activated when the target appeared). We propose that this region is involved in comparison or mapping processes. These results add to the growing evidence for functional differentiation between rostral PFC subregions.
The prefrontal cortex (PFC) is thought to modulate the neural network state in favor of the processing of task-relevant sensory information prior to the presentation of sensory stimuli. However, this proactive control mechanism cannot always optimize the network state because of intrinsic fluctuation of neural activity upon arrival of sensory information. In the present study, we have investigated an additional control mechanism, in which the control process to regulate the behavior is adjusted to the trial-by-trial fluctuation in neural representations of sensory information. We asked normal human subjects to perform a variant of the Stroop task. Using functional magnetic resonance imaging, we isolated cognitive conflict at a sensory processing stage on a single-trial basis by calculating the difference in activation between task-relevant and task-irrelevant sensory areas. Activation in the dorsolateral PFC (DLPFC) covaried with the neural estimate of sensory conflict only on incongruent trials. Also, the coupling between the DLPFC and anterior cingulate cortex (ACC) was tighter on high-sensory conflict trials with fast response. The results suggest that although detection of sensory conflict is achieved by the DLPFC, online behavioral adjustment is achieved by interactive mechanisms between the DLPFC and ACC.
Resting-state functional connectivity (RSFC) approaches offer a novel tool to delineate distinct functional networks in the brain. In the present functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) study, we elucidated patterns of RSFC associated with 6 regions of interest selected primarily from a meta-analysis on word reading (Bolger DJ, Perfetti CA, Schneider W. 2005. Cross-cultural effect on the brain revisited: universal structures plus writing system variation. Hum Brain Mapp. 25: 92-104). In 25 native adult readers of English, patterns of positive RSFC were consistent with patterns of task-based activity and functional connectivity associated with word reading. Moreover, conjunction analyses highlighted the posterior left inferior frontal gyrus and the posterior left middle temporal gyrus (post-LMTG) as potentially important loci of functional interaction among 5 of the 6 reading networks. The significance of the post-LMTG has typically been unappreciated in task-based studies on unimpaired readers but is frequently reported to be a locus of hypoactivity in dyslexic readers and exhibits intervention-induced changes of activity in dyslexic children. Finally, patterns of negative RSFC included not only regions of the so-called default mode network but also regions involved in effortful controlled processes, which may not be required once reading becomes automatized. In conclusion, the current study supports the utility of resting-state fMRI for investigating reading networks and has direct relevance for the understanding of reading disorders such as dyslexia.
We have recently reported in male rats that medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC) neurons that project to the basolateral nucleus of the amygdala (BLA) are resilient to stress-induced dendritic remodeling. The present study investigated whether this also occurs in female rats. This pathway was identified using the retrograde tracer Fast Blue injected into the BLA of ovariectomized female rats with estrogen replacement (OVX + E) and without (OVX + veh). Animals were exposed for 10 days either to 2-h immobilization stress or to home cage rest, after which layer III mPFC neurons that were either retrogradely labeled by Fast Blue or unlabeled were filled with Lucifer Yellow and analyzed for apical dendritic length and spine density. No dendritic remodeling occurred in unlabeled neurons from OVX + veh or OVX + E animals. In BLA-projecting neurons, however, stress had no effect on length in OVX + veh animals, but stressed OVX + E females showed greater dendritic length than controls at intermediate branches. Stress also caused an increase in spine density in all neurons in OVX + veh animals and a spine density increase in BLA-projecting neurons in OVX + E females. Estrogen also increased spine density on BLA-projecting neurons in unstressed animals. These data demonstrate both independent effects of estrogen on pyramidal cell morphology and effects that are interactive with stress, with the BLA-projecting neurons being sensitive to both kinds of effects.
Voltage-gated Ca(2+) channels translate the electrical inputs of excitable cells into biochemical outputs by controlling influx of the ubiquitous second messenger Ca(2+) . As such the channels play pivotal roles in many cellular functions including the triggering of neurotransmitter and hormone release by CaV2.1 (P/Q-type) and CaV2.2 (N-type) channels. It is well established that G protein coupled receptors (GPCRs) orchestrate precise regulation neurotransmitter and hormone release through inhibition of CaV2 channels. Although the GPCRs recruit a number of different pathways, perhaps the most prominent, and certainly most studied among these is the so-called voltage-dependent inhibition mediated by direct binding of G to the 1 subunit of CaV2 channels. This article will review the basics of Ca(2+) -channels and G protein signaling, and the functional impact of this now classical inhibitory mechanism on channel function. It will also provide an update on more recent developments in the field, both related to functional effects and crosstalk with other signaling pathways, and advances made toward understanding the molecular interactions that underlie binding of G to the channel and the voltage-dependence that is a signature characteristic of this mechanism.
Many cellular processes are involved in optimizing protein function for specific neuronal tasks; here we focus on alternative pre-mRNA splicing. Alternative pre-mRNA splicing gives cells the capacity to modify and selectively re-balance their existing pool of transcripts in a coordinated way across multiple mRNAs, thereby effecting relatively rapid and relatively stable changes in protein activity. Here we report on and discuss the coordinated regulation of two sites of alternative splicing, e24a and e31a, in P-type CaV2.1 and N-type CaV2.2 channels. These two exons encode 4 and 2 amino acids, respectively, in the extracellular linker regions between transmembrane spanning segments S3 and S4 in domains III and IV of each CaV2 subunit. Recent genome-wide screens of splicing factor-RNA binding events by Darnell and colleagues show that Nova-2 promotes inclusion of e24a in CaV2.2 mRNAs in brain. We review these studies and show that a homologous e24a is present in theCaV2 .1 gene, Cacna1a, and that it is expressed in different regions of the nervous system. Nova-2 enhances inclusion of e24a but represses e31a inclusion in CaV2.1 and CaV2.2 mRNAs in brain. It is likely that coordinated alternative pre-mRNA splicing across related CaV2 genes by common splicing factors, allows neurons to orchestrate changes in synaptic protein function while maintaining a balanced and functioning system.
Voltage-gated L-type calcium channels (LTCCs) are expressed in adrenal chromaffin cells. Besides shaping the action potential (AP), LTCCs are involved in the excitation-secretion coupling controlling catecholamine release and in Ca (2+) -dependent vesicle retrieval. Of the two LTCCs expressed in chromaffin cells (CaV1.2 and CaV1.3), CaV1.3 possesses the prerequisites for pacemaking spontaneously firing cells: low-threshold, steep voltage-dependence of activation and slow inactivation. By using CaV1 .3 (-/-) KO mice and the AP-clamp it has been possible to resolve the time course of CaV1.3 pacemaker currents, which is similar to that regulating substantia nigra dopaminergic neurons. In mouse chromaffin cells CaV1.3 is coupled to fast-inactivating BK channels within membrane nanodomains and controls AP repolarization. The ability to carry subthreshold Ca (2+) currents and activate BK channels confers to CaV1.3 the unique feature of driving Ca (2+) loading during long interspike intervals and, possibly, to control the Ca (2+) -dependent exocytosis and endocytosis processes that regulate catecholamine secretion and vesicle recycling.

Humans describe their perception of certain odorants in terms of taste qualities (e.g., sweet). It has also been found that in humans, novel odorants can rapidly and irreversibly acquire a taste, even after just a single pairing with a taste. It remains unclear whether flavor objects in general, and odor-taste generalizations in particular, are experience-dependent. Interactions might result from a failure by humans to sufficiently analyze the olfactory and gustatory components of compound flavorants. Here, we tested odor-taste generalizations in rats with or without paired exposure to an odorant and a tastant. We evaluated the generalization of conditioned odor aversion to tastants by rats. Our findings suggest that rats behave toward putatively tasteless retronasal odorants as if they were sweet only after prior paired experience of the odorant with a sweet tastant. These data support the hypothesis that taste-like qualities of odors are learned and are not innate. Furthermore, the present results suggest that acquisition of a taste quality by an odor need not depend on higher cognitive abilities. This study helps to establish the rat as a model for the study of behavioral neuroscience of flavor.


Poor vision impairs balance and increases the risk of falls and fractures in older people. Multifocal glasses can add to this risk by impairing contrast sensitivity, depth perception, and ability to negotiate obstacles. Vision assessment and provision of new spectacles may not reduce, and may even increase, the risk of falls. Restriction of the use of multifocal glasses may reduce falls in active older people. Other effective fall prevention strategies include maximizing vision through cataract surgery and occupational therapy interventions in visually impaired older people.
We present a patient who showed MRI evidence of a giant temporo-sylvian arachnoidal cyst of the left hemisphere and an extreme pneumatization of the sphenoid and frontal sinuses. No sign of mass effect or cerebral atrophy was detected. This patient presented a deficit of memory and control functions, but quality of life was not affected. Surgery was not performed. Arachnoidal cyst and anatomic variants of the sinus region have not a common etiology. This is the first report that describes a giant temporo-sylvian arachnoidal cyst with anatomic variants of the paranasal sinuses.
Traumatic intracranial penetration of foreign objects of non-missile intracranial nature rarely occurs. Haemorrhages, major vascular injury and contusions can be causes of death in early stage, epileptic seizures and infections are possible complications in later stages. Complete excision of the foreign body should be performed. Possible dural and vascular injuries should be repaired during surgical treatment. In the present study, we report a rare case of traumatic intracranial stone as a foreign object. A brief review of the literature is presented.

Neurophysiological studies on children and adults with dyslexia provide a deeper understanding of how visual and auditory processing in dyslexia might relate to reading deficits. The goal of this review is to provide an overview of research findings in the last two decades on motion related and contrast sensitivity visual evoked potentials and on auditory event related potentials to basic tone and speech sound processing in dyslexia. These results are particularly relevant for three important theories about causality in dyslexia: the magnocellular deficit hypothesis, the temporal processing deficit hypothesis and the phonological deficit hypothesis. Support for magnocellular deficits in dyslexia are primarily provided from evidence for altered visual evoked potentials to rapidly moving stimuli presented at low contrasts. Consistently ERP findings revealed altered neurophysiological processes in individuals with dyslexia to speech stimuli, but evidence for deficits processing certain general acoustic information relevant for speech perception, such as frequency changes and temporal patterns, are also apparent.



Cognitive change following bilateral subthalamic nucleus (STN) deep brain stimulation (DBS) surgery in those with Parkinson's disease (PD) has led to equivocal results. The current study applied a standardized regression-based (SRB) method based on 20 medically managed PD patients and 20 STN DBS PD surgical patients who were administered the Repeatable Battery of Neuropsychological Status (RBANS). Of the medically managed PD participants, 94% remained stable compared to 73% of the DBS group. In the DBS group cognitive change was noted on the Total scale and the Immediate Memory Index. A secondary analysis also revealed reliable change on several subtest scores. Although preliminary, the current study provides change parameters for post DBS surgery on this brief battery.

The rate-limiting factor in the discovery of novel antidepressants is the inefficient methodology of traditional multicenter randomized clinical trials (RCTs). We applied a model-based approach to a large clinical database (five RCTs in major depressive disorder (MDD), involving 1,837 patients from 124 recruitment centers) with two objectives: (i) to learn about the role of center-specific placebo response in RCT failure and (ii) to apply what is learned to improve the efficiency of RCTs by enhancing the detection of treatment effect (TE). Sensitivity analysis indicated that center-specific placebo response was the most relevant predictor of RCT failure. To reduce the statistical &quot;noise&quot; generated by centers with nonplausible, excessively high/low placebo responses, we developed an enrichment-window strategy. Clinical trial simulation was used to assess the enrichment strategy applied before the standard statistical analysis, resulting in an overall reduction in failure of RCTs from ~50 to ~10%.
This review integrates Fredrickson's broaden-and-build theory of positive emotions with advances in affective neuroscience regarding plasticity in the neural circuitry of emotions to inform the treatment of emotion deficits within psychopathology. We first present a body of research showing that positive emotions broaden cognition and behavioral repertoires, and in so doing, build durable biopsychosocial resources that support coping and flourishing mental health. Next, by explicating the processes through which momentary experiences of emotions may accrue into self-perpetuating emotional systems, the current review proposes an underlying architecture of state-trait interactions that engenders lasting affective dispositions. This theoretical framework is then used to elucidate the cognitive-emotional mechanisms underpinning three disorders of affect regulation: depression, anxiety, and schizophrenia. In turn, two mind training interventions, mindfulness and loving-kindness meditation, are highlighted as means of generating positive emotions that may counter the negative affective processes implicated in these disorders. We conclude with the proposition that positive emotions may exert a countervailing force on the dysphoric, fearful, or anhedonic states characteristic of psychopathologies typified by emotional dysfunctions.


Dopamine receptor agonists are indicated for the symptomatic treatment of early, moderate or advanced Parkinson's disease as well as for the reduction of levodopa-related motor complications. Ergolinic dopamine agonists, such as bromocriptine or pergolide, were initially developed and marketed, and then non-ergolinic dopamine agonists, such as pramipexole and ropinirole, were introduced, reducing the risk of drug-induced fibrotic reactions. Once-daily, controlled-release oral and transdermal formulations have been developed aiming at providing more stable 24-hour plasma drug concentrations and more convenient administration. A disease-modifying effect of dopamine agonists has not been demonstrated clinically. As with any other drug, dopamine agonists can also cause adverse drug reactions, which can be related or unrelated to dopaminergic hyperactivation. Dopaminergic reactions include nausea, hallucinations, confusion and orthostatic hypotension, among others, which were readily identified in pre-marketing clinical trials. During post-marketing surveillance, important adverse reactions were identified, such as daytime somnolence, impulse-control disorders and heart valve fibrosis. Other issues, including the efficacy of dopamine agonists for the treatment of non-motor symptoms, remain under evaluation.
In designing the anaesthetic plan for patients undergoing surgery, the choice of anaesthetic agent may often appear irrelevant and the best results obtained by the use of a technique or a drug with which the anaesthesia care provider is familiar. Nevertheless, in those surgical procedures (cardiopulmonary bypass, carotid surgery and cerebral aneurysm surgery) and clinical situations (subarachnoid haemorrhage, stroke, brain trauma and post-cardiac arrest resuscitation) where protecting the CNS is a priority, the choice of anaesthetic drug assumes a fundamental role. Treating patients with a neuroprotective agent may be a consideration in improving overall neurological outcome. Therefore, a clear understanding of the relative degree of protection provided by various agents becomes essential in deciding on the most appropriate anaesthetic treatment geared to these objectives. This article surveys the current literature on the effects of the most commonly used anaesthetic drugs (volatile and gaseous inhalation, and intravenous agents) with regard to their role in neuroprotection. A systematic search was performed in the MEDLINE, Cumulative Index to Nursing and Allied Health Literature (CINHAL) and Cochrane Library databases using the following keywords: 'brain' (with the limits 'newborn' or 'infant' or 'child' or 'neonate' or 'neonatal' or 'animals') AND 'neurodegeneration' or 'apoptosis' or 'toxicity' or 'neuroprotection' in combination with individual drug names ('halothane', 'isoflurane', 'desflurane', 'sevoflurane', 'nitrous oxide', 'xenon', 'barbiturates', 'thiopental', 'propofol', 'ketamine'). Over 600 abstracts for articles published from January 1980 to April 2010, including studies in animals, humans and in vitro, were examined, but just over 100 of them were considered and reviewed for quality. Taken as a whole, the available data appear to indicate that anaesthetic drugs such as barbiturates, propofol, xenon and most volatile anaesthetics (halothane, isoflurane, desflurane, sevoflurane) show neuroprotective effects that protect cerebral tissue from adverse events--such as apoptosis, degeneration, inflammation and energy failure--caused by chronic neurodegenerative diseases, ischaemia, stroke or nervous system trauma. Nevertheless, in several studies, the administration of gaseous, volatile and intravenous anaesthetics (especially isoflurane and ketamine) was also associated with dose-dependent and exposure time-dependent neurodegenerative effects in the developing animal brain. At present, available experimental data do not support the selection of any one anaesthetic agent over the others. Furthermore, the relative benefit of one anaesthetic versus another, with regard to neuroprotective potential, is unlikely to form a rational basis for choice. Each drug has some undesirable adverse effects that, together with the patient's medical and surgical history, appear to be decisive in choosing the most suitable anaesthetic agent for a specific situation. Moreover, it is important to highlight that many of the studies in the literature have been conducted in animals or in vitro; hence, results and conclusions of most of them may not be directly applied to the clinical setting. For these reasons, and given the serious implications for public health, we believe that further investigation--geared mainly to clarifying the complex interactions between anaesthetic drug actions and specific mechanisms involved in brain injury, within a setting as close as possible to the clinical situation--is imperative.
Internalisation of the mu opioid receptor from the surface of cells is generally achieved by receptor occupancy with agonist ligands of high efficacy. However, in many situations the potent analgesic morphine fails to promote internalisation effectively and whether there is a direct link between this and the propensity for the sustained use of morphine to result in both tolerance and dependence has been studied intensely. Although frequently described as a partial agonist, this characteristic appears insufficient to explain the poor capacity of morphine to promote internalisation of the mu opioid receptor. Experiments performed using both transfected cell systems and ex vivo/in vivo models have provided evidence that when morphine can promote internalisation of the mu receptor there is a decrease in the development of tolerance and dependence. Although aspects of this model are controversial, such observations suggest a number of approaches to further enhance the use of morphine as an analgesic.
Our understanding of the complex signaling neurophysiology of the central nervous system has facilitated the exploration of potential novel receptor-ligand system targets for disorders of this most complex organ. In recent years, many relatively neglected receptor-ligand systems have been re-evaluated with respect to their ability to potently modulate discrete tracts in the central nervous system. One such system is the tachykinin (previously neurokinin) system. The multiple heptahelical G protein-coupled receptors and neuropeptide ligands that comprise this system may be significantly involved in more central nervous systems actions than previously thought, including sleep disorders, amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, Alzheimer's disease and Machado-Joseph disease. The development of our understanding of the role of the tachykinin receptor-ligand system in higher order central functions is likely to allow the creation of more specific and selective tachykinin-related neurotherapeutics.
Misinformation introduced after events have already occurred causes errors in later retrieval. Based on literature showing that arousal induced after learning enhances delayed retrieval, we investigated whether post-learning arousal can reduce the misinformation effect. 251 participants viewed four short film clips, each followed by a retention test, which for some participants included misinformation. Afterward, participants viewed another film clip that was either arousing or neutral. One week later, the arousal group recognized significantly more veridical details and endorsed significantly fewer misinformation items than the neutral group. The findings suggest that arousal induced after learning reduced source confusion, allowing participants to better retrieve accurate details and to better reject misinformation.
Research on the relationship between the representation of space and time has produced two contrasting proposals. ATOM posits that space and time are represented via a common magnitude system, suggesting a symmetrical relationship between space and time. According to metaphor theory, however, representations of time depend on representations of space asymmetrically. Previous findings in humans have supported metaphor theory. Here, we investigate the relationship between time and space in a nonverbal species, by testing whether non-human primates show space-time interactions consistent with metaphor theory or with ATOM. We tested two rhesus monkeys and 16 adult humans in a nonverbal task that assessed the influence of an irrelevant dimension (time or space) on a relevant dimension (space or time). In humans, spatial extent had a large effect on time judgments whereas time had a small effect on spatial judgments. In monkeys, both spatial and temporal manipulations showed large bi-directional effects on judgments. In contrast to humans, spatial manipulations in monkeys did not produce a larger effect on temporal judgments than the reverse. Thus, consistent with previous findings, human adults showed asymmetrical space-time interactions that were predicted by metaphor theory. In contrast, monkeys showed patterns that were more consistent with ATOM.
Previous research has demonstrated perceptual aftereffects for emotionally expressive faces, but the extent to which they can also be obtained in a different modality is unknown. In two experiments we show for the first time that adaptation to affective, non-linguistic vocalisations elicits significant auditory aftereffects. Adaptation to angry vocalisations caused voices drawn from an anger-fear morphed continuum to be perceived as less angry and more fearful, while adaptation to fearful vocalisations elicited opposite aftereffects (Experiment 1). We then tested the link between these aftereffects and the underlying acoustics by using caricatured adaptors. Although caricatures exaggerated the acoustical and affective properties of the vocalisations, the caricatured adaptors resulted in aftereffects which were comparable to those obtained with natural vocalisations (Experiment 2). Our findings suggest that these aftereffects cannot be solely explained by low-level adaptation to acoustical characteristics of the adaptors but are likely to depend on higher-level adaptation of neural representations of vocal affect.
Three experiments elicited phonological speech errors using the SLIP procedure to investigate whether there is a tendency for speech errors on specific words to reoccur, and whether this effect can be attributed to implicit learning of an incorrect mapping from lemma to phonology for that word. In Experiment 1, when speakers made a phonological speech error in the study phase of the experiment (e.g. saying &quot;beg pet&quot; in place of &quot;peg bet&quot;) they were over four times as likely to make an error on that same item several minutes later at test. A pseudo-error condition demonstrated that the effect is not simply due to a propensity for speakers to repeat phonological forms, regardless of whether or not they have been made in error. That is, saying &quot;beg pet&quot; correctly at study did not induce speakers to say &quot;beg pet&quot; in error instead of &quot;peg bet&quot; at test. Instead, the effect appeared to be due to learning of the error pathway. Experiment 2 replicated this finding, but also showed that after 48 h, errors made at study were no longer more likely to reoccur. As well as providing constraints on the longevity of the effect, this provides strong evidence that the error reoccurrences observed are not due to item-specific difficulty that leads individual speakers to make habitual mistakes on certain items. Experiment 3 showed that the diminishment of the effect 48 h later is not due to specific extra practice at the task. We discuss how these results fit in with a larger view of language as a dynamic system that is constantly adapting in response to experience.
At 10 nM, ouabain elicits changes in cell contacts, which are independent and usually in opposite direction to effects occurring at M levels, suggesting that these depend on entirely different mechanisms.1 However, this does not discard the possibility that in both instances ouabain would act on the same receptor. We demonstrate that such is the case by comparing the response of wild and ouabain-resistant MDCK cells on a very special type of cell contact, the tight junction (TJ).
Synapse remodeling, which involves changes in the synaptic structure and their molecular composition, is required for the maturation and refinement of neural circuits. Although synapse remodeling is known to be tightly dependent on the assembly of local actin cytoskeleton, how actin directs the structural changes of synapse and targeting of synaptic proteins are not fully understood. Recently, we identified ephexin1, a Rho guanine nucleotide exchange factor (GEF) that regulates actin dynamics, to play an essential role in the maturation and functioning of the mammalian neuromuscular junction (NMJ). We showed that ephexin1 regulates the synaptic organization of the neurotransmitter receptor acetylcholine receptor (AChR) clusters through RhoA-dependent actin reorganization. Interestingly, ephexin1 has been implicated in the regulation of postsynaptic structure as well as the presynaptic vesicle release at various types of synapses. Our findings thus establish a novel function of ephexin1 in synapse remodeling through regulating the synaptic targeting of neurotransmitter receptors, revealing a versatile role of ephexin1 at synapses.
In neurons and neurosecretory (nerve) cells, neurite outgrowth requires the enlargement of the plasma membrane sustained by the exocytosis of specific vesicles. The well known, slow canonical form of outgrowth induced in pheochromocytoma PC12 cells by NGF, as well as the outgrowth taking place in neurons, involve vesicles positive for the vSNARE Ti-VAMP. Working in defective PC12 clones expressing high levels of the transcriptional repressor REST, we have identified now a new, rapid form of outgrowth, triggered by activation of a small GTPase, Rac1. This form is sustained by the exocytosis of another type of vesicles, taking place locally at the tip of neurite growth cones, the enlargeosomes (vSNARE: VAMP4). This new form, which is positively controlled by REST, requires the dynamics of microtubules, but not of microfilaments. Its signaling remains undefined because established second messengers, (Ca(2+), DAG, cAMP) seem not involved. Using a high REST/enlargeosome-rich PC12 clone transfected with TrkA we have found that the NGF-induced outgrowth is not always slow, but can be fast in cells expressing high levels of the receptor involved, TrkA; that PC12 can express together the two distinct forms of outgrowth, canonical and new, activated independently from each other. Their comparative characterization in terms of changes in the cytoskeleton has now been initiated. The two forms are present also in neurons where the new one seems to predominate in the initial phases of development, the canonical one later on. Our results identify a new aspect of the REST impact in nerve cell specificity/function. The existence of two distinct forms of neurite outgrowth may cope better than a single form with the variable needs of nerve cells in the subsequent stages of their development.
Norbin, a neurite-outgrowth promoting protein, has been found to interact with and regulate several membrane proteins, including metabotropic glutamate receptor 5 (mGluR5). The disruption of both Norbin alleles leads to early embryonic death between 3.5 and 6.5 day post coitus.1 Forebrain specific Norbin knockout (KO) mice are defective in synaptic plasticity,2 an interesting feature considering that Norbin was initially discovered in the context of chemical-induced long term potentiation (LTP),3 a form of synaptic plasticity extensively studied in the context of learning and memory.4 The behavioral phenotypes associated with Norbin conditional KO suggest reduced mGluR5 function. Because of its fundamental functions, Norbin is emerging as a key neuronal regulator. The aim of the present review is to summarize current knowledge about Norbin while emphasizing its role in the nervous system.


Recent studies of Alzheimer's disease (AD) and other neuropsychiatric drug developments raise questions whether failures of some drugs occur due to flaws in methods. In three case studies of recent AD drug development failures with phenserine, metrifonate, and tarenflurbil we identified methodological lapses able to account for the failures. Errors in complex systems such as drug developments are both almost inescapable due to human mistakes and most frequently hidden at the time of occurrence and thereafter. We propose preemptive error management as a preventive strategy to exclude or control error intrusions into neuropsychiatric drug developments. We illustrate the functions we anticipate for a preemptive error management preventive strategy with a checklist and identify the limitations of this aspect of the proposal with three drug examples. This strategy applies core scientific practices to insure the quality of data within the current context of AD drug development practices.
Platinum-based anticancer drugs are a cornerstone of the current antineoplastic treatment. However, their use is limited by the onset of peripheral nervous system dysfunction, which can be severe and persistent over a long period of time. Among the several hypothesis proposed to explain this side effect, evidence is increasing that dorsal root ganglia (DRG) oxidative stress can be an important pathogenetic mechanism and, possibly, a therapeutic target to limit the severity of platinum-induced peripheral neurotoxicity but preserving the anticancer effectiveness. In fact, DRG energy failure has been suggested as a result of mitochondrial DNA-platinum binding and several antioxidant drugs have been tested in pre-clinical experiments and clinical trials. In this review, an update on the current knowledge on the relationship existing between oxidative stress and platinum drugs peripheral neurotoxicity will be given.

HIV/AIDS continues to be a devastating epidemic with African American communities carrying the brunt of the impact. Despite extensive biobehavioral research, current strategies have not resulted in significantly decreasing HIV/AIDS cases among African Americans. The next generation of HIV prevention and risk reduction interventions must move beyond basic sex education and condom use and availability. Successful interventions targeting African Americans must optimize strategies that integrate socio-cultural factors and address institutional and historical barriers that hinder or support HIV risk reduction behaviors. Community-based participatory research to decrease the HIV/AIDS disparity by building community capacity and infrastructure and advocating for and distributing equitably, power and resources, must be promoted. Recommendations for paradigm shifts in using innovative theories and conceptual frameworks and for training researchers, clinicians, grant and journal reviewers, and community members are made so that culturally congruent interventions may be tested and implemented at the community level.

The list of genetic causes of syndromes of dystonia parkinsonism grows constantly. As a consequence, the diagnosis becomes more and more challenging for the clinician. Here, we summarize the important causes of dystonia parkinsonism including autosomal-dominant, recessive, and x-linked forms. We cover dopa-responsive dystonia, Wilson's disease, Parkin-, PINK1-, and DJ-1-associated parkinsonism (PARK2, 6, and 7), x-linked dystonia-parkinsonism/Lubag (DYT3), rapid-onset dystonia-parkinsonism (DYT12) and DYT16 dystonia, the syndromes of Neurodegeneration with Brain Iron Accumulation (NBIA) including pantothenate kinase (PANK2)- and PLA2G6 (PARK14)-associated neurodegeneration, neuroferritinopathy, Kufor-Rakeb disease (PARK9) and the recently described SENDA syndrome; FBXO7-associated neurodegeneration (PARK15), autosomal-recessive spastic paraplegia with a thin corpus callosum (SPG11), and dystonia parkinsonism due to mutations in the SLC6A3 gene encoding the dopamine transporter. They have in common that in all these syndromes there may be a combination of dystonic and parkinsonian features, which may be complicated by pyramidal tract involvement. The aim of this review is to familiarize the clinician with the phenotypes of these disorders.
This study was aimed to evaluate and compare the effect of chronic hypoxia and aging in the oxidative status of brain vessels and synaptosomes. For this purpose we isolated brain vessels and synaptosomes from 3- and 12-month-old rats subjected to chronic hypoxia (10% O for 7 days) or normoxia (21% O). Several parameters were evaluated: mitochondrial aconitase activity, hydrogen peroxide (HO) and malondialdehyde (MDA) levels and enzymatic [superoxide dismutase (SOD), catalase, glutathione peroxidase (GPx) and glutathione reductase (GR)] and non-enzymatic [glutathione (GSH), glutathione disulfide (GSSG) and vitamin E] antioxidant defences. Concerning brain vessels, we observed an age-dependent increase in MDA levels and SOD, catalase, GR and GPx activities. In vessels isolated from young animals, chronic hypoxia induced an increase in HO, GSSG and vitamin E levels and CuZnSOD and catalase activities and a decrease in GSH levels. In mature animals, hypoxia induced a decrease in GSH/GSSG ratio, vitamin E levels and mitochondrial aconitase, MnSOD and GR activities and an increase in HO levels and CuZnSOD and catalase activities. Concerning synaptosomes we observed an age-dependent increase in MDA levels, CuZnSOD and GPx activities and a decrease in MnSOD activity. In synaptosomes from young animals, chronic hypoxia induced a decrease in mitochondrial aconitase activity and GSH levels and an increase in CuZnSOD activity and GSSG levels. In synaptosomes from mature animals, hypoxia induced a decrease in mitochondrial aconitase activity, GSH/GSSG ratio, GSH and vitamin E levels and an increase in GSSG levels. Our results show that chronic hypoxia promotes and potentiates age-dependent oxidative imbalance predisposing to neurodegeneration. Further, synaptosomes and brain vessels are differently affected by aging and chronic hypoxia supporting the idea of the existence of tissue-specific susceptibilities.
According to current concepts for multiple sclerosis (MS), a fundamental pathogenic role is played by T- and B-cells that inappropriately recognize self antigens and initiate a cell-mediated or humoral inflammatory reaction that injures myelin and axons, and results in neural dysfunction and loss. Transplantation of bone marrow-derived hematopoietic stem cells following high-dose immunosuppression is being evaluated as an experimental treatment for severe forms of immune-mediated disorders, including MS. The primary goal of this therapeutic approach is to induce medication-free remission from new disease activity by correcting the immune aberrations that promote the attack against self tissue; this approach is termed 'immune repair'. In this review, the clinical experience gained from the use of autologous hematopoietic stem cell transplantation in treating severe forms of MS are presented, and the current understanding of the mechanisms underlying the mode of action of this treatment, including depletion of disease-mediating immune cells, rejuvenation of the immune repertoire and improvement of regulatory cell function, is discussed.


The purpose of the present study was to build a clinically useful automated seizure detection system for scalp EEG recordings. To achieve this, a computer algorithm was designed to translate complex multichannel scalp EEG signals into several dynamical descriptors, followed by the investigations of their spatiotemporal properties that relate to the ictal (seizure) EEG patterns as well as to normal physiologic and artifact signals. This paper describes in detail this novel seizure detection algorithm and reports its performance in a large clinical dataset.

The transition from specification of cell identity to the differentiation of cells into an appropriate and enduring state is critical to the development of embryos. Transcriptional profiling in Caenorhabditis elegans has revealed a large number of genes that are expressed in the fully differentiated intestine; however, no regulatory factor has been found to be essential to initiate their expression once the endoderm has been specified. These gut-expressed genes possess a preponderance of GATA factor binding sites and one GATA factor, ELT-2, fulfills the expected characteristics of a key regulator of these genes based on its persistent expression exclusively in the developing and differentiated intestine and its ability to bind these regulatory sites. However, a striking characteristic of elt-2(0) knockout mutants is that while they die shortly after hatching owing to an obstructed gut passage, they nevertheless contain a gut that has undergone complete morphological differentiation. We have discovered a second gut-specific GATA factor, ELT-7, that profoundly synergizes with ELT-2 to create a transcriptional switch essential for gut cell differentiation. ELT-7 is first expressed in the early endoderm lineage and, when expressed ectopically, is sufficient to activate gut differentiation in nonendodermal progenitors. elt-7 is transcriptionally activated by the redundant endoderm-specifying factors END-1 and -3, and its product in turn activates both its own expression and that of elt-2, constituting an apparent positive feedback system. While elt-7 loss-of-function mutants lack a discernible phenotype, simultaneous loss of both elt-7 and elt-2 results in a striking all-or-none block to morphological differentiation of groups of gut cells with a region-specific bias, as well as reduced or abolished gut-specific expression of a number of terminal differentiation genes. ELT-2 and -7 synergize not only in activation of gene expression but also in repression of a gene that is normally expressed in the valve cells, which immediately flank the termini of the gut tube. Our results point to a developmental strategy whereby positive feedback and cross-regulatory interactions between two synergistically acting regulatory factors promote a decisive and persistent transition of specified endoderm progenitors into the program of intestinal differentiation.



Visual activity acts via NMDA Receptors to refine developing retinotectal maps by shaping retinal arbors. Retinal axons add and delete transient branches, and the dynamic rates increase when MK801 blocks NMDARs, as if this prevents release of a stabilizing signal. Ca(++) entry through NMDARs activates phospholipase A2 (cPLA2) to release arachidonic acid (AA), which taps into a presynaptic growth control mechanism. NCAM, L1, N-cadherin, and FGF all stimulate axon growth via AA activation of protein kinase C to phosphorylate GAP43 and polymerize/stabilize F-actin. Our previous results show that blocking cPLA2 mimics NMDAR blockers, whereas exogenous AA reverses the increased dynamics, and PKC inhibitors also arrest growth. To test whether this activity-driven F-actin control mechanism shapes retinotectal arbors in zebrafish, we used the alpha-1-tubulin promoter to express GAP43-GFP fusion proteins in retinal ganglion cells, and imaged arbors in time-lapse to test for effects of GAP43 levels and its phosphorylation. Overexpressing wildtype GAP43 gave faster growth and larger arbors (#branches, spatial extent, total length of branches) at three days and especially four days. Surprisingly, the N-terminal 20 amino acid segment alone caused the same increase in branching, but no increase in growth. Earlier studies implicate this region in activating G(o) resulting in collapse of growth cones, which is now known to precede branch initiation. In contrast, GAP43 with ser41 mutated to ala (S41A) to prevent phosphorylation did not increase either branching or growth but resulted in immature, elongated arbors even at four to five days. In support of this atrophic effect, only half of brain/spinal neurons expressing S41A successfully initiated axonal outgrowth (vs. nearly 100% for wtGAP43). These results suggest that the region around the ser41 phosphorylation site, which binds CaM and PIP2, promotes growth only when phosphorylated, and also activates the branching control region in the first 10-20 amino acids. Whereas phosphorylation introduces a bulky negative charge group, mutation of serine to arginine introduces a bulky positive charge. But this also produced the same growth and branching as phosphorylation, suggesting that the effect of phosphorylation is through hydrophilic bulk rather than negative charge, in agreement with other IQ motifs. The results implicate the cPLA2-AA-PKC-GAP43 pathway as part of an F-actin based mechanism that both stabilizes new synapses and initiates new branches near effective synapses.
The effects of early-life trauma and its consequences for the treatment of depression are reviewed. The prevalence and clinical sequelae of early sexual and physical abuse, neglect and parental loss are described. An overview of preclinical studies that help guide clinical research and practice is presented. Human clinical studies on the neurobiological consequences of early trauma are summarized. Moderating factors, such as genetic variation and sex differences, are discussed. The few current treatment outcome studies relevant to this research area are described. Guidance for the management of patients with depression and a history of child abuse and neglect are provided. Most patients who have experienced early traumatic experiences are likely best treated with a combination of psychotherapy and pharmacotherapy. This review is dedicated to the memory of Seymour Levine who pioneered the field of early experience research and to a considerable extent inspired the clinical studies described in this review.
Gaze-following, the tendency to direct one's attention to locations looked at by others, is a crucial aspect of social cognition in human and nonhuman primates. Whereas the development of gaze-following has been intensely studied in human infants, its early ontogeny in nonhuman primates has received little attention. Combining longitudinal and cross-sectional observational data from Barbary macaques at 'La Fort des Singes', we show here that gaze-following among conspecifics develops within the first year of life with a rapid increase between 5 and 6 months, reaching adult levels at 1 year. Sex, rank, and relatedness of the animal whose gaze the subject followed did not affect gaze-following rates. Interestingly, however, the behavior was enhanced in all age classes if a gaze-cue was accompanied by a facial expression. Furthermore, the effect of facial expressions had a modulatory influence on the ontogenetic trajectory of gaze-following, suggesting that it is of functional significance in the development of the behavior. Follow-up analyses revealed that one specific facial expression that is given in response to social interactions between third parties was particularly efficient in eliciting gaze-following responses, indicating the importance of cues that are able to guide the acquisition of social information. Taken together, these results suggest that the development and the operation of gaze-following are tuned to the social and physical characteristics of a species' environment.
Previous studies have shown that as a group 6-month-old infants successfully discriminate numerical changes when the values differ by at least a 1:2 ratio but fail at a 2:3 ratio (e.g. 8 vs. 16 but not 8 vs. 12). However, no studies have yet examined individual differences in number discrimination in infancy. Using a novel numerical change detection paradigm, we present more direct evidence that infants' numerical perception is ratio-dependent even within the range of discriminable ratios and thus adheres to Weber's Law. Furthermore, we show that infants' numerical discrimination at 6 months reliably predicts their numerical discrimination abilities but not visual short-term memory at 9 months. Thus, individual differences in numerical discrimination acuity may be stable within the first year of life and provide important avenues for future longitudinal research exploring the relationship between infant numerical discrimination and later developing math achievement.
Empathy and sympathy play crucial roles in much of human social interaction and are necessary components for healthy coexistence. Sympathy is thought to be a proxy for motivating prosocial behavior and providing the affective and motivational base for moral development. The purpose of the present study was to use functional MRI to characterize developmental changes in brain activation in the neural circuits underpinning empathy and sympathy. Fifty-seven individuals, whose age ranged from 7 to 40 years old, were presented with short animated visual stimuli depicting painful and non-painful situations. These situations involved either a person whose pain was accidentally caused or a person whose pain was intentionally inflicted by another individual to elicit empathic (feeling as the other) or sympathetic (feeling concern for the other) emotions, respectively. Results demonstrate monotonic age-related changes in the amygdala, supplementary motor area, and posterior insula when participants were exposed to painful situations that were accidentally caused. When participants observed painful situations intentionally inflicted by another individual, age-related changes were detected in the dorsolateral prefrontal and ventromedial prefrontal cortex, with a gradual shift in that latter region from its medial to its lateral portion. This pattern of activation reflects a change from a visceral emotional response critical for the analysis of the affective significance of stimuli to a more evaluative function. Further, these data provide evidence for partially distinct neural mechanisms subserving empathy and sympathy, and demonstrate the usefulness of a developmental neurobiological approach to the new emerging area of moral neuroscience.
Tracing the connections from brain functions to children's cognitive development and education is a major goal of modern neuroscience. We performed the first meta-analysis of functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) data obtained over the past decade (1999-2008) on more than 800 children and adolescents in three core systems of cognitive development and school learning: numerical abilities, reading, and executive functions (i.e. cognitive control). We ran Activation Likelihood Estimation (ALE) meta-analyses to obtain regions of reliable activity across all the studies. The results indicate that, unlike results usually reported for adults, children primarily engage the frontal cortex when solving numerical tasks. With age, there may be a shift from reliance on the frontal cortex to reliance on the parietal cortex. In contrast, the frontal, temporo-parietal and occipito-temporal regions at work during reading in children are very similar to those reported in adults. The executive frontal regions are also consistent with the imaging literature on cognitive control in adults, but the developmental comparison between children and adolescents demonstrates a key role of the anterior insular cortex (AIC) with an additional right AIC involvement in adolescents.
Attentional processes play a crucial role in prioritizing information for further processing and they therefore sit at the interface between internal goals and the challenges presented by the environment. How does attentional control interact with the changing constraints imposed by the developing cognitive system? Emerging work in this area has employed a range of complementary techniques, from increasingly refined neurocognitive measures in typically developing individuals, to the investigation of risk or protective factors influencing attention trajectories in developmental disorders. A growing corpus of data suggests that, while attentional biases for specific input characteristics (e.g. suddenly appearing stimuli, emotional expressions) are in place from infancy, it is the interplay between these predispositions, genetic and environmental factors that drives attention development over time. With the advent of multidisciplinary approaches to the developmental cognitive neuroscience of attention, unravelling these complex dynamics from infancy and their outcome on learning is increasingly within reach.
Non-linear changes in behaviour and in brain activity during adolescent development have been reported in a variety of cognitive tasks. These developmental changes are often interpreted as being a consequence of changes in brain structure, including non-linear changes in grey matter volumes, which occur during adolescence. However, very few studies have attempted to combine behavioural, functional and structural data. This multi-method approach is the one we took in the current study, which was designed to investigate developmental changes in behaviour and brain activity during relational reasoning, the simultaneous integration of multiple relations. We used a relational reasoning task known to recruit rostrolateral prefrontal cortex (RLPFC), a region that undergoes substantial structural changes during adolescence. The task was administered to female participants in a behavioural (N = 178, 7-27 years) and an fMRI study (N = 37, 11-30 years). Non-linear changes in accuracy were observed, with poorer performance during mid-adolescence. fMRI and VBM results revealed a complex picture of linear and possibly non-linear changes with age. Performance and structural changes partly accounted for changes with age in RLPFC and medial superior frontal gyrus activity but not for a decrease in activation in the anterior insula/frontal operculum between mid-adolescence and adulthood. These functional changes might instead reflect the maturation of neurocognitive strategies.
Abl is an essential regulator of cell migration and morphogenesis in both vertebrates and invertebrates. It has long been speculated that the adaptor protein Disabled (Dab), which is a key regulator of neuronal migration in the vertebrate brain, might be a component of this signaling pathway, but this idea has been controversial. We now demonstrate that null mutations of Drosophila Dab result in phenotypes that mimic Abl mutant phenotypes, both in axon guidance and epithelial morphogenesis. The Dab mutant interacts genetically with mutations in Abl, and with mutations in the Abl accessory factors trio and enabled (ena). Genetic epistasis tests show that Dab functions upstream of Abl and ena, and, consistent with this, we show that Dab is required for the subcellular localization of these two proteins. We therefore infer that Dab is a bona fide component of the core Abl signaling pathway in Drosophila.


The pursuit of personalized medicine requires the development of biomarkers to predict disease course, monitor disease evolution, stratify patient subgroups by disease activity and to predict and monitor response to therapies. Multiple sclerosis (MS) is a common neurological disease in young adults with an unpredictable course that may be associated with significant disability, diminishing the patient's quality of life. Currently, disease prognosis is based on clinical information (relapse rate and disability scales) and diagnostic tests (brain MRI or the presence of oligoclonal bands in the cerebrospinal fluid). However, the ability of neurologists to make an accurate prognosis is very limited based on such information, a situation perceived by patients as one of their biggest concerns. Although many recent studies have identified different molecules and imaging techniques associated with the course of MS, in most cases the diagnostic accuracy of such technologies has not been properly assessed. This shortcoming is partly due to the failure to validate such biomarkers, which impedes their application in clinical practice. However, the recent validation of anti-aquaporin-4 antibodies for Devic's disease and the development of optic coherent tomography for MS, are examples of the benefits that the development of MS biomarkers can offer. Indeed, it may currently be necessary to redress the bias in research towards clinical validation rather than discovery in order to promote translational research and improve patient's quality of life.
Excess activation of ionotropic glutamate receptors, primarily N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptors and free radicals, evoke nerve cell death following hypoxic-ischemic brain injury in various animal models. However, clinical trials in stroke patients using NMDA receptor antagonists have failed to show efficacy primarily due to the limited therapeutic time window for neuroprotection and a narrow therapeutic index. In comparison, antioxidants prolonged the time window for neuroprotection in animal models of ischemic stroke and showed greater therapeutic potential in clinical trials for ischemic stroke. Excess activation of NMDA receptors and free radicals mediate the two separate pathways of nerve cell death in stroke and a safe and multifunctional drug that can block both routes in the brain will likely provide a better therapeutic outcome in patients with stroke. Derivatives of the lead structures of sulfasalazine and aspirin have led to the discovery of a new molecule, Neu2000, that has demonstrated excellent neuroprotection against NMDA- and free radical-induced cell death. Neu2000 is an NR2B-selective, moderate NMDA receptor antagonist with potent cell-permeable, spin trapping antioxidant action even at nanomolar concentrations. Nonclinical and human phase I studies demonstrated that Neu2000 can be translated to treat patients with stroke with better efficacy and therapeutic time window.
Balance difficulties are an enduring feature of dyslexia research, however results have been inconsistent. We propose that between-study heterogeneity may be attributable to variability in balance tasks, balance measurement, participant age, and inclusion of comorbid disorders such as ADHD. This study attempted to clarify these issues, employing quantitative, continuous measures of balance and blindfolded balance, and using both adult and child participants without comorbid ADHD. Eighty-seven individuals participated: dyslexic adults (n = 17), matched adult controls (n = 30), dyslexic children (n = 16) and matched child controls (n = 24). The study found significant balance deficits for the child dyslexic group in the eyes-open task and a result approaching significance in the blindfolded task. By contrast, the adult dyslexic group showed significant deficits in the blindfolded task only. This result is interpreted in terms of lack of sensitivity of the non-blindfolded balance task for adults, owing to ceiling effects. This highlights the need for the use of age-appropriate tests, and may explain some of the heterogeneity in the literature. It is concluded that there is a significant incidence of balance difficulties in children and adults with dyslexia, even for those without comorbid attention deficit.
The knowledge that reading and phonological awareness are mainly reciprocally related has hardly influenced the status of a phonological awareness deficit as the main cause of a reading deficit in dyslexia. Because direct proofs for this theory are still lacking we investigated children at familial risk for dyslexia in kindergarten and first grade. The familial risk was genuine; 40% developed reading deficits in first grade. However, we did not find any relationship between a phonological awareness or other phonological processing deficits in kindergarten and reading deficits in first grade. Finally, we did not find evidence for the claim that a phonological awareness deficit assumedly causes a reading deficit via 'unstable' or otherwise corrupted letter-speech sound associations. Although earlier research indicated letter knowledge as another significant determinant of later reading deficits, we found no support for this claim. Letter knowledge learning and learning to associate and integrate letters and speech sound are different processes and only problems in the latter process seem directly linked to the development of a reading deficit. The nature of this deficit and the impact it might have on multisensory processing in the whole reading network presents a major challenge to future reading and dyslexia research.
Neuropeptide Y (NPY) is widely distributed in the human body and contributes to a vast number of physiological processes. Since its discovery, NPY has been implicated in metabolic regulation and, although interest in its role in central mechanisms related to food intake and obesity has somewhat diminished, the topic remains a strong focus of research concerning NPY signalling. In addition, a number of other uses for modulators of NPY receptors have been implied in a range of diseases, although the development of NPY receptor ligands has been slow, with no clinically approved receptor therapeutics currently available. Nevertheless, several interesting small molecule compounds, notably Y2 receptor antagonists, have been published recently, fueling optimism in the field. Herein we review the role of NPY in the pathophysiology of a number of diseases and highlight instances where NPY receptor signalling systems are attractive therapeutic targets.
Cholecystokinin (CCK), an endogenous brain-gut peptide, is released after food intake and promotes the process of satiation via activation of the vagus nerve. In vitro, CCK increases cytosolic calcium concentrations and produces membrane depolarization in a subpopulation of vagal afferent neurons. However, the specific mechanisms and ionic conductances that mediate these effects remain unclear. In this study we used calcium imaging, electrophysiological measurements, and single cell PCR analysis on cultured vagal afferent neurons to address this issue directly. A cocktail of blockers of voltage-dependent calcium channels (VDCC) failed to block CCK-induced calcium responses. In addition, SKF96365, a compound that blocks both VDCC and the C family of transient receptor potential (TRP) channels, also failed to prevent responses to CCK. Together these results suggest that CCK-induced calcium influx is not subsequent to the membrane depolarization. Ruthenium red, an inhibitor of the TRPV family and TRPA1, blocked both depolarizing responses to CCK and CCK-induced calcium increases, but had no effect on the KCl-induced calcium response. Selective block of TRPV1 and TRPA1 channels with SB366791 and HC030031, respectively, had minor effects on the CCK-induced response. Application of 2-aminoethoxydiphenyl borate, an activator of select TRPV channels but a blocker of several TRPC channels, either had no effect or enhanced the responses to CCK. Further, results from PCR experiments revealed a significant clustering of TRPV2-5 in neurons expressing CCK1 receptors. These observations demonstrate that CCK-induced increases in cytosolic calcium and membrane depolarization of vagal afferent neurons are likely mediated by TRPV channels, excluding TRPV1.
In adult male rats, androgens are necessary for the maintenance of the motoneurons and their target muscles of the sexually dimorphic, steroid-sensitive spinal nucleus of the bulbocavernosus (SNB) neuromuscular system, regulating motoneuron and muscle morphology, function, and expression of trophic factors. Castration of males results in somal, dendritic, and muscle atrophy as well as increases in brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) in the target musculature. Because BDNF can have either facilitative or inhibitory effects in other systems, we examined SNB neuromuscular morphology after BDNF blockade using a fusion protein (tyrosine kinase receptor type B IgG). Blockade of BDNF in gonadally intact males resulted in hypertrophy of SNB motoneuron dendrites and target musculature, suggesting that normal levels of BDNF are inhibitory in SNB neuromuscular system. BDNF blockade in castrated males prevented SNB motoneuron atrophy and attenuated target muscle weight loss. This is the first demonstration that the highly androgen-sensitive SNB motoneuron dendrites and target muscles can be maintained in the absence of gonadal hormones and, furthermore, that blocking BDNF can have trophic effects on skeletal muscle. These results suggest that whereas BDNF is involved in the signaling cascade mediating the androgenic support of SNB neuromuscular morphology, its action can be inhibitory. Furthermore, the elevations in BDNF after castration may be responsible for the castration-induced atrophy in SNB motoneurons and target muscles, and the trophic effects of androgens may be mediated in part through a suppression of BDNF. These results may have relevance to therapeutic approaches to the treatment of neurodegenerative disease or myopathies.
Age-associated changes in the reproductive hormones-the gonadal steroid hormones and the gonadotropins-have been identified as potential risk factors for Alzheimer's disease (AD). However, levels of gonadotropins and estrogens are closely linked in vivo, and it has proven difficult to separate the effects of gonadotropins from the well-documented estrogenic effects on AD-related neuropathology in experimental models of menopause. To assess the effects of gonadotropins on cognition and AD biochemical markers independent of estrogenic effects, a potent analog of luteinizing hormone [human chorionic gonadotropin (hCG)] was administered to ovariectomized presenilin1 knock-in mice (PS1KI). Gonadotropin administration was found to induce hyperactivity and anxiety (Open Field Maze and Taste Neophobia Task) and working memory dysfunction, without altering reference memory (Morris Water Maze). Although gonadotropin administration modestly altered  amyloid (A40) levels, levels of the longer more toxic form (A42) were unaffected. Furthermore, altered A40 levels were not associated with observed behavioral and cognitive impairments. These findings provide proof, in principle, that the gonadotropin hormones play a role in the modulation of AD-related behavior, cognition, and neuropathology.

Hyperfamiliarity for unknown faces (HFUF) is a rare disorder in which unfamiliar people or faces appear familiar. Three young adults were admitted for acute symptomatic secondarily generalized tonic-clonic seizures (two) and psychomotor status (one). During the days following the seizures the patients continuously experienced a strong familiarity for unknown people, including other patients, visitors, and hospital staff. This disorder disappeared gradually, lasting a mean of 13 days. Brain MRI showed left amygdalohippocampal lesions, suggesting the etiology of encephalitis in two patients and multiple &quot;active&quot; demyelinating lesions in one patient. Interictal and ictal EEG findings showed left temporal epileptiform abnormalities. Two patients had a transitory defect of verbal memory. HFUF is a newly defined postictal symptom, more likely to arise from left temporal epileptic discharges. In our cases it was associated with acute lesions of the temporal areas, suggesting that its occurrence may also imply a structural etiology of epilepsy.
Vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) is a vascular growth factor more recently recognized as a neurotrophic factor (for review, see Storkebaum E, Lambrechts D, Carmeliet P. BioEssays 2004;26:943-54). We previously reported that endogenous VEGF protein is dramatically upregulated after pilocarpine-induced status epilepticus in the rat, and that intra-hippocampal infusions of recombinant human VEGF significantly protected against the loss of hippocampal CA1 neurons in this model (Nicoletti JN, Shah SK, McCloskey DP, et al. Neuroscience 2008;151:232-41). We hypothesized that we would see a preservation of cognitive and emotional functioning with VEGF treatment accompanying the neuroprotection previously observed in this paradigm. Using the Morris water maze to evaluate learning and memory, and the light-dark task to assess anxiety, we found a selective profile of preservation. Specifically, VEGF completely preserved normal anxiety functioning and partially but significantly protected learning and memory after status epilepticus. To determine whether the ability of VEGF to attenuate behavioral deficits was accompanied by sustained preservation of hippocampal neurons, we stereologically estimated CA1 pyramidal neuron densities 4 weeks after status epilepticus. At this time point, we found no significant difference in neuronal densities between VEGF- and control-treated status epilepticus animals, suggesting that VEGF could have protected hippocampal functioning independent of its neuroprotective effect.


Tourette's syndrome (TS) is a developmental neuropsychiatric disorder characterized by motor and vocal tics as well as psychiatric comorbidities. Recently, differences in maturation of cortical networks using functional connectivity metrics have been described for this disorder. However, adult data on subcortical networks are scarce. In particular, the connectivity of the amygdala, for which a role in the pathophysiology of TS has been established, has not been examined so far. We studied 15 adult TS patients (11 male, aged 30.4  9.7y) and 15 age- and sex-matched controls (11 male, aged 32.0  9.3y) in a functional magnetic resonance imaging study at 1.5T using a simple motor task. We corrected for possible confounds introduced by tics, motion and brain-structural differences as well as age, sex, and medication. Task performance was monitored by simultaneous MR-compatible video-recording. Data were analyzed using an independent component approach sensitive to functional connectivity patterns. A stable component comprising both amygdalae could be identified across all subjects. Additionally, we observed a highly significant increase in coupling between/within amygdalae in the TS group when compared to controls, although behavioral data obtained during scanning did not show significant differences. These findings are expected to add to our understanding of the functional architecture of Tourette's syndrome.
Neural cell adhesion molecule (NCAM)-mediated cell adhesion results in activation of intracellular signaling cascades that lead to cellular responses such as neurite outgrowth, neuronal survival, and modulation of synaptic activity associated with cognitive processes. The crystal structure of the immunoglobulin (Ig) 1-2-3 fragment of the NCAM ectodomain has revealed novel mechanisms for NCAM homophilic adhesion. The present study addressed the biological significance of the so called dense zipper formation of NCAM. Two peptides, termed dennexinA and dennexinB, were modeled after the contact interfaces between Ig1 and Ig3 and between Ig2 and Ig2, respectively, observed in the crystal structure. Although the two dennexin peptides differed in amino acid sequence, they both modulated cell adhesion, reflected by inhibition of NCAM-mediated neurite outgrowth. Both dennexins also promoted neuronal survival, and the effect of dennexinA was independent of polysialic acid expression. Consistent with the effect of dennexinA on NCAM-mediated adhesion in vitro, the peptide impaired long-term memory retention in rats in the Morris water maze test. Thus, dennexins are novel site-specific pharmacological tools for elucidation of the role of NCAM in a variety of biological processes under normal and pathological conditions.
Patient delay in seeking medical attention for melanoma (MM) constitutes one of the main challenges in designing prevention campaigns. No conclusive studies exploring psychological aspects of those patients, using standardized psychometric instruments, are currently available. We hypothesized that the attitude toward illness of subjects attending the melanoma screening day (EMD) would differ from patients diagnosed with MM following the usual clinical pathways. Five psychometric tests, assessing attitude toward illness, were administered both to EMD and MM groups, this latter further divided into two subgroups (good and bad detectors, GD and BD) considering the histo-clinical characteristics of the lesion. The Mann-Whitney U Test and Pearson Chi Square test were used to compare EMD patients with the other groups and to compare psychometric scores between GD and BD. BD and GD groups showed significant differences. Interestingly, the BD group was characterized by higher scores in Temperament and Character Inventory Fearful subscale, Multidimensional Health Locus of Control Powerful Others scale and Illness Behaviour Questionnaire General Hypochondriasis, Affective Disturbance and Irritability subscales. BD patients tend to react in a phobic manner to medical recommendations and they appear to favour external and more assertive help, which would suggest choosing a more direct approach in proposing a prevention campaign. Although this is a pilot study and further studies are needed, it gives new insight to build up more effective prevention campaigns for those patients.


We investigated whether conventional and diffusion tensor (DT) magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) features of the corticospinal tract (CST) contribute to the prediction of the long-term clinical evolution in patients with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS). Brain conventional and DT MRI were obtained from 18 healthy subjects and 24 patients with sporadic ALS. Mean diffusivity (MD) and fractional anisotropy (FA) of the CST were obtained. Patients were scanned at baseline, then entered a longitudinal clinical follow-up. The ALS Functional Rating scale (ALSFRS) progression rate during follow-up was estimated. Patients were followed up prospectively for a median period of 3.4 years. Two patients were lost at follow-up and eight died during the observation period. The mean ALSFRS progression rate was 0.7/month (range = 0.02.0/month). At baseline, ALS patients showed significantly increased MD and decreased FA of the CST compared with controls. CST FA was associated with ALSFRS progression rate. ALSFRS deterioration rate and CST FA were independent predictors of survival in ALS patients. Survival at year 3 was 42% in patients with CST FA  0.56 compared with 90% in patients with CST FA &gt; 0.56. This study shows that more severe CST DT MRI abnormalities predict a poorer long-term clinical outcome in ALS patients. DT MRI of the brain has the potential to offer in vivo markers of disease severity.
Evaluation of the behavioral 'costs', such as effort expenditure relative to the benefits of obtaining reward, is a major determinant of goal-directed action. Neuroimaging evidence suggests that the human medial orbitofrontal cortex (mOFC) is involved in this calculation and thereby guides goal-directed and choice behavior, but this region's functional significance in rodents is unknown despite extensive work characterizing the role of the lateral OFC in cue-related response inhibition processes. We first tested mice with mOFC lesions in an instrumental reversal task lacking discrete cues signaling reinforcement; here, animals were required to shift responding based on the location of the reinforced aperture within the chamber. Mice with mOFC lesions acquired the reversal but failed to inhibit responding on the previously reinforced aperture, while mice with prelimbic prefrontal cortex lesions were unaffected. When tested on a progressive ratio schedule of reinforcement, mice with prelimbic cortical lesions were unable to maintain responding, resulting in declining response levels. Mice with mOFC lesions, by contrast, escalated responding. Neither lesion affected sensitivity to satiety-specific outcome devaluation or non-reinforcement (i.e. extinction), and neither had effects when placed after animals were trained on a progressive ratio response schedule. Lesions of the ventral hippocampus, which projects to the mOFC, resulted in similar response patterns, while lateral OFC and dorsal hippocampus lesions resulted in response acquisition, though not inhibition, deficits in an instrumental reversal. Our findings thus selectively implicate the rodent mOFC in braking reinforced goal-directed action when reinforcement requires the acquisition of novel response contingencies.
Dopamine influences affective, motor and cognitive processing, and multiple forms of learning and memory. This multifaceted functionality, which operates across long temporal windows, is broader than the narrow and temporally constrained role often ascribed to dopamine neurons as reward prediction error detectors. Given the modulatory nature of dopamine neurotransmission, that dopamine release is activated by both aversive and appetitive stimuli, and that dopamine receptors are often localized extrasynaptically, a role for dopamine in transmitting precise error signals has been questioned. Here we recorded from ventral tegmental area (VTA) neurons, while exposing rats to novel stimuli that were predictive of an appetitive or aversive outcome in the same behavioral session. The VTA contains dopamine and -aminobutyric acid (GABA) neurons that project to striatal and cortical regions and are strongly implicated in learning and affective processing. The response of VTA neurons, regardless of whether they had putative dopamine or GABA waveforms, transformed flexibly as animals learned to associate novel stimuli from different sensory modalities to appetitive or aversive outcomes. Learning the appetitive association led to larger excitatory VTA responses, whereas acquiring the aversive association led to a biphasic response of brief excitation followed by sustained inhibition. These responses shifted rapidly as outcome contingencies changed. These data suggest that VTA neurons interface sensory information with representational memory of aversive and appetitive events. This pattern of plasticity was not selective for putative dopamine neurons and generalized to other cells, suggesting that the temporally precise information transfer from the VTA may be mediated by faster acting GABA neurons.
Callous-unemotional violence associated with antisocial personality disorder is often called 'predatory' because it involves restricted intention signaling and low emotional/physiological arousal, including decreased glucocorticoid production. This epithet may be a mere metaphor, but may also cover a structural similarity at the level of the hypothalamus where the control of affective and predatory aggression diverges. We investigated this hypothesis in a laboratory model where glucocorticoid production is chronically limited by adrenalectomy with glucocorticoid replacement (ADXr). This procedure was proposed to model important aspects of antisocial violence. Sham and ADXr rats were submitted to resident/intruder conflicts, and the resulting neuronal activation patterns were investigated by c-Fos immunocytochemistry. In line with earlier findings, the share of attacks aimed at vulnerable targets (head, throat and belly) was dramatically increased by ADXr, while intention signaling by offensive threats was restricted. Aggressive encounters activated the mediobasal hypothalamus, a region involved in intra-specific aggression, but sham and ADXr rats did not differ in this respect. In contrast, the activation of the lateral hypothalamus that is tightly involved in predatory aggression was markedly larger in ADXr rats; moreover, c-Fos counts correlated positively with the share of vulnerable attacks and negatively with social signaling. Glucocorticoid deficiency increased c-Fos activation in the central amygdala, a region also involved in predatory aggression. In addition, activation patterns in the periaqueductal gray - involved in autonomic control - also resembled those seen in predatory aggression. These findings suggest that antisocial and predatory aggression are not only similar but are controlled by overlapping neural mechanisms.
Postnatal brain development continues throughout adolescence into young adulthood. In particular, synapse strengthening and elimination are prominent processes during adolescence. However, molecular data of this relatively late stage of synaptic development are sparse. In this study, we used iTRAQ (isobaric tag for relative and absolute quantification)-based proteomics and electron microscopy to investigate the molecular composition of a synaptic membrane fraction from adolescent postnatal day (P)34 and P44 and adult (P78) rat medial prefrontal cortex. Differential expression of proteins was most prominent between early adolescence and young adulthood (35%, P34-P78), with an over-representation of cell-membrane proteins during adolescent development (between P34 and P44), and synaptic vesicle proteins between late adolescence and young adulthood (P44-P78). Indicative of the critical period of development, we found that, between P34 and P44, a substantial number of proteins was differentially expressed (14%), much more than during the period after adolescence, i.e. between P44 and P78 (5%). A striking observation was the developmental non-stoichiometric regulation of distinct classes of proteins from the synaptic vesicle and the presynaptic release machinery. Electron microscopy demonstrated a small change in the number of docked vesicles between P34 and P44, but not in the total number of synaptic vesicles and in the size of the vesicle cluster. We conclude that the molecular composition of synapses, and more specifically the synaptic release machinery, of the medial prefrontal cortex changes drastically during adolescent development.
Detecting a change in a visual stimulus is particularly difficult when it is accompanied by a visual disruption such as a saccade or flicker. In order to say whether a stimulus has changed across such a disruption, some neural trace must persist. Here we investigated whether two different regions of the human extrastriate visual cortex contain neuronal populations encoding such a trace. Participants viewed a stimulus that included various objects and a short blank period (flicker) made it difficult to distinguish whether an object in the stimulus had changed or not. By applying transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) during the visual disruption we show that the lateral occipital (LO) cortex, but not the occipital face area, contains a sustained representation of a visual stimulus. TMS over LO improved the sensitivity and response bias for detecting changes by selectively reducing false alarms. We suggest that TMS enhanced the initial object representation and thus boosted neural events associated with object repetition. Our findings show that neuronal signals in the human LO cortex carry a sustained neural trace that is necessary for detecting the repetition of a stimulus.
Neuroimaging studies of humans have provided inconsistent evidence with respect to the response properties of the fusiform face area (FFA). It has been claimed that neural populations within this region are sensitive to subtle differences between individual faces only when they are perceived as distinct identities [P. Rotshtein etal. (2005)Nature Neuroscience, 8, 107-113]. However, sensitivity to subtle changes of identity was found in previous studies using unfamiliar faces, for which categorical perception is less pronounced. Using functional magnetic resonance adaptation and morph continua of personally familiar faces, we investigated sensitivity to subtle changes between faces that were located either on the same or opposite sides of a categorical perceptual boundary. We found no evidence for categorical perception within the FFA, which exhibited reliable sensitivity to subtle changes of face identity whether these were perceived as distinct identities, or not. On the contrary, both the posterior superior temporal sulcus and prefrontal cortex exhibited categorical perception, as subtle changes between faces perceived as different identities yielded larger release from adaptation than those perceived as the same identity. These observations suggest that, whereas the FFA discriminates subtle physical changes of personally familiar faces, other regions encode faces in a categorical fashion.
The quinpirole sensitization model of obsessive-compulsive disorder was used to investigate the functional role that brain regions implicated in a neuroanatomical circuit of obsessive-compulsive disorder may play in compulsive checking behavior. Following repeated injections of saline or quinpirole (0.5mg/kg, twice per week, 8 injections) to induce compulsive checking, rats received N-methyl-d-aspartate lesions of the nucleus accumbens core (NAc), orbital frontal cortex (OFC) and basolateral amygdala, or sham lesions. When retested at 17days post-surgery, the results showed effects of NAc and OFC but not basolateral amygdala lesion. NAc lesions affected measures indicative of the amount of checking behavior, whereas OFC lesions affected indices of staying away from checking. The pattern of results suggested that the functional roles of the NAc and OFC in checking behavior are to control the vigor of motor performance and focus on goal-directed activity, respectively. Furthermore, similarities in behavior between quinpirole sham rats and saline NAc lesion rats suggested that quinpirole may drive the vigor of checking by inhibition of NAc neurons, and that the NAc may be a site for the negative feedback control of checking.
Absent Skin Conductance Response (SCR) in pathological gambling (PG) may relate to dopaminergic mechanisms. We recruited equal numbers of PG subjects and healthy control (HC) subjects, and then tested the claim that SCR is less conditioned by dopaminergic activity in PG subjects. During active gambling, SCR differed in PG and HC subjects (P &lt; 0.05), but positron emission tomography revealed the same dopamine receptor availability. However, highly sensation-seeking (HS) PG subjects had lower dopamine receptor availability (P &lt; 0.0001) in the baseline, compared to normal sensation-seeking (NS) PG subjects. We find that HS versus NS controls had the same observation of significant increase of binding potential (BP(ND)) in high compared to normal sensation seekers. In both groups, PG and HC, highly sensation-seeking subjects had significant increase of receptor availability in striatum, compared to normally sensation-seeking subjects, separately (P &lt; 0.05 and P = 0.02, respectively) and together (P &lt; 0.0005). We conclude that SCR is less conditioned by dopaminergic activity in highly sensation-seeking subjects, regardless of PG status.

A series of experiments provide evidence that affordances rely not only on the mutual appropriateness of the features of an object and the abilities of an individual, but also on the fact that those features fall within her own reachable space, thus being really ready-to-her-own-hand. We used a spatial alignment effect paradigm and systematically examined this effect when the visually presented object was located either within or outside the peripersonal space of the participants, both from a metric (Experiment 1) and from a functional point of view (Experiment 2). We found that objectual features evoke actions only when the object is presented within the portion of the peripersonal space that is effectively reachable by the participants. Experiments 3 and 4 ruled out that our results could be merely accounted for by differences in the visual salience of the presented objects. Our data suggest that the power of an object to automatically trigger an action is strictly linked to the effective possibility that an individual has to interact with it.
The molecular mechanisms of Duchenne muscular dystrophy (DMD) have been extensively investigated since the discovery of the dystrophin gene in 1986. Nonetheless, there is currently no effective treatment for DMD. Recent reports, however, indicate that adenoassociated viral (AAV) vector-mediated transfer of a functional dystrophin cDNA into the affected muscle is a promising strategy. In addition, antisense-mediated exon skipping technology has been emerging as another promising approach to restore dystrophin expression in DMD muscle. Ongoing clinical trials show restoration of dystrophin in DMD patients without serious side effects. Here, we summarize the recent progress in gene therapy, with an emphasis on exon skipping for DMD.
In glaucoma, the major cause of global irreversible blindness, there is an urgent need for treatment modalities that directly target the RGCs. The discovery of an alternative therapeutic approach, independent of IOP reduction, is highly sought after, due to the indirect nature and limited effectiveness of IOP lowering therapy in preventing RGC loss. Several mechanisms have been implicated in initiating the apoptotic cascade in glaucomatous retinopathy and numerous drugs have been shown to be neuroprotective in animal models of glaucoma. These mechanisms and their potential treatment include excitotoxicity, protein misfolding, mitochondrial dysfunction, oxidative stress, inflammation and neurotrophin deprivation. All of these mechanisms ultimately lead to programmed cell death with loss of RGCs. In this article we summarize the mechanisms involved in glaucomatous disease, highlight the rationale for neuroprotection in glaucoma management and review current potential neuroprotective strategies targeting RGCs from the laboratory to the clinic.
The higher risk factor for Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis (ALS) among Italian soccer players is a question that is still debated. One of the hypotheses that have been formulated to explain a possible link between ALS and soccer players is related to the abuse of dietary supplements and drugs for enhancing sporting performance. In particular, it has been reported that branched-chain amino acids (BCAAs) are widely used among athletes as nutritional supplements. To observe the possible effect of BCAAs on neuronal electrical properties, we performed electrophysiological experiments on Control cultured cortical neurons and on neurons after BCAA treatment. BCAA-treated neurons showed hyperexcitability and rapamycin was able to suppress it and significantly reduce the level of mTOR, Akt and p70S6 phosphorylation. Interestingly, the hyperexcitability previously reported in cortical neurons from a genetic mouse model of ALS (G93A) was also reversed by rapamycin treatment. Moreover, both G93A and valine-treated neurons presented significantly higher levels of Pp70S6 when compared to control neurons, strongly indicating the involvement of this substrate in ALS pathology. Finally, we performed electrophysiological experiments on motor cortex slices from Control and G93A mice and those fed with a BCAA-enriched diet. We observed that neuron excitability was comparable between G93A and BCAA-enriched diet mice, but was significantly higher than in Control mice. These findings, besides strongly indicating that BCAAs specifically induce hyperexcitability, seem to suggest the involvement of p70S6 substrate in ALS pathology.
In adult rodents stroke enhances neurogenesis resulting in the addition of neurons to forebrain regions such as striatum or cortex where postnatal neurogenesis under normal conditions plays a negligible role. In the cortex, new neurons are generated either from local cortical precursors that are activated by stroke or from precursors residing in the subventricular zone (SVZ) of lateral ventricles that under normal conditions supply neuroblasts by and large only for the olfactory bulb. In this study we used 5HT3A-EGFP transgenic mice in which all neuroblasts originating in the SVZ are EGFP-labeled. We induced stroke in these mice and by combination of EGFP detection with BrdU injections we labeled all post-stroke-generated SVZ-derived neuroblasts. We showed an increase in SVZ-derived neuroblasts 14 and 35 days after stroke in the ipsilateral hemisphere. Post-stroke-generated SVZ-derived neuroblasts migrated to the cortex and survived for at least 35 days representing 2% of BrdU-positive cells in peri-infarct area where they differentiate into mature neurons. Thus, stroke enhances SVZ neurogenesis and attracts newborn neurons to the injury zone.
Parkinson's disease (PD) is classically defined as a motor disorder resulting from decreased dopamine production in the basal ganglia circuit. In an attempt to better diagnose and treat PD before the onset of severe motor dysfunction, recent attention has focused on the early, non-motor symptoms, which include but are not limited to sleep disorders such as excessive daytime sleepiness (EDS) and REM behavioral disorder (RBD). However, few animal models have been able to replicate both the motor and non-motor symptoms of PD. Here, we present a progressive rat model of parkinsonism that displays disturbances in sleep/wake patterns. Epidemiological studies elucidated a link between the Guamanian variant of Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis/Parkinsonism Dementia Complex (ALS/PDC) and the consumption of flour made from the washed seeds of the plant Cycas micronesica (cycad). Our study examined the effects of prolonged cycad consumption on sleep/wake activity in male, Sprague-Dawley rats. Cycad-fed rats exhibited an increase in length and/or number of bouts of rapid eye movement (REM) sleep and Non-REM (NREM) sleep at the expense of wakefulness during the active period when compared to control rats. This hypersomnolent behavior suggests an inability to maintain arousal. In addition, cycad-fed rats had significantly fewer orexin cells in the hypothalamus. Our results reveal a novel rodent model of parkinsonism that includes an EDS-like syndrome that may be associated with a dysregulation of orexin neurons. Further characterization of this early, non-motor symptom, may provide potential therapeutic interventions in the treatment of PD.

A crucial issue in neurobiology is to understand the main mechanisms restricting neural plasticity to brief windows of early postnatal life. The visual system is one of the paradigmatic models for studying experience-dependent plasticity. The closure of one eye (monocular deprivation, MD) causes a marked ocular dominance (OD) shift of neurons in the primary visual cortex only during the critical period. Here, we report that environmental enrichment (EE), a condition of increased sensory-motor stimulation, reactivates OD plasticity in the adult visual cortex, as assessed with both visual evoked potentials and single-unit recordings. This effect is accompanied by a marked increase in cerebral serotonin (5-HT) levels. Blocking 5-HT enhancement in the visual cortex of EE rats completely prevents the OD shift induced by MD. We also found that EE leads to a reduced intracortical GABAergic inhibition and an increased BDNF expression and that the modulation of these molecular factors is neutralized by cortical infusion of the 5-HT synthesis inhibitor pCPA. Our results show that EE rejuvenates the adult visual cortex and that 5-HT is a crucial factor in this process, triggering a cascade of molecular events that allow the reinstatement of neural plasticity. The non-invasive nature of EE makes this paradigm particularly eligible for clinical application.
Tuberoinfundibular peptide of 39 residues (TIP39) synthesizing neurons at the caudal border of the thalamus and in the lateral pons project to areas rich in its receptor, the parathyroid hormone 2 receptor (PTH2R). These areas include many involved in processing nociceptive information. Here we examined the potential role of TIP39 signaling in nociception using a PTH2R antagonist (HYWH) and mice with deletion of TIP39's coding sequence or PTH2R null mutation. Intracerebroventricular (icv) infusion of HYWH significantly inhibited nociceptive responses in tail-flick and hot-plate tests and attenuated the nociceptive response to hindpaw formalin injection. TIP39-KO and PTH2R-KO had increased response latency in the 55C hot-plate test and reduced responses in the hindpaw formalin test. The tail-flick test was not affected in either KO line. Thermal hypoalgesia in KO mice was dose-dependently reversed by systemic administration of the cannabinoid receptor 1 (CB1) antagonist rimonabant, which did not affect nociception in wild-type (WT). Systemic administration of the cannabinoid agonist CP 55,940 did not affect nociception in KO mice at a dose effective in WT. WT mice administered HYWH icv, and both KOs, had significantly increased stress-induced analgesia (SIA). Rimonabant blocked the increased SIA in TIP39-KO, PTH2R-KO or after HYWH infusion. CB1 and FAAH mRNA were decreased and increased, respectively, in the basolateral amygdala of TIP39-KO mice. These data suggest that TIP39 signaling modulates nociception, very likely by inhibiting endocannabinoid circuitry at a supraspinal level. We infer a new central mechanism for endocannabinoid regulation, via TIP39 acting on the PTH2R in discrete brain regions.
Localized altered cerebellar cortical activity can be associated with short-term changes in motor learning that take place in the course of hours, but it is unknown whether it can be correlated to long-term recovery from transient peripheral motor diseases, and if so, whether it occurs concomitantly in related brain regions. Here we show in a longitudinal fMRI study of patients with unilateral Bell's palsy that increases in ipsilateral cerebellar activity follow the recovery course of facial motor functions over at least one and a half years. These findings hold true for changes in brain activity related to both oral and peri-orbital activation, even though these processes are differentially mediated by unilateral and bilateral brain connectivities, respectively. Activation of non-facial musculature, which was studied for control, does not show any change in cerebellar activity over time. The localized changes in cerebellar activities following activation of facial functions occur concomitantly with increases in activity of the facial region in the contralateral primary motor cortex suggesting that the cerebellum acts together with the cerebral cortex in long-term adaptation to transient pathological sensorimotor processing.
Huntington's disease (HD) is an inherited neurodegenerative disorder characterized by progressive neuronal dysfunction and cell loss, especially striatal GABAergic neurons, generating motor, cognitive and affective problems. Although the disease-causing gene is known, the exact mechanism by which it induces its pathological effect remains unknown, and no cure is currently available for this disease. Interestingly, striatal neurons that express neuropeptide Y (NPY) are preferentially spared in HD and the number of such cells is increased in the striatum of HD patients. Furthermore, neurogenesis in the subventricular zone (SVZ) also appears to be up-regulated in HD patients, and previously we also demonstrated in wild-type mice that intracerebroventricular (ICV) NPY promotes SVZ neurogenesis with migration of the newborn cells towards the striatum where they differentiate into GABAergic neurons. Therefore, we sought to determine whether NPY could be of therapeutic benefit in a transgenic mouse model of HD (R6/2) through an action on SVZ neurogenesis. We found that a single ICV injection of NPY in R6/2 mice increased survival time through reduced weight loss as well as having a beneficial effect on motor function as evidenced by improving rotarod performance and reducing paw-clasping. We also demonstrated that the degree of cerebral and striatal atrophy was reduced following such a single NPY injection and that whilst the peptide also increased the number of BrdU-positive cells in the SVZ (but not in the dentate gyrus) of R6/2 mice, this was not sufficient to account for the changes in anatomy and function that we found.. These results suggest that NPY may be of some therapeutic interest in patients with HD, although further work is needed to ascertain exactly how it mediates its beneficial effects.

The importance of evaluating drug metabolism and pharmacokinetic (DMPK) properties very early in the drug discovery process in order to reduce attrition during development is now well recognised. In this paper we illustrate an approach for PK screening that provides a range of parameters that would not be available from conventional PK profiling. In combination with an assessment of physicochemical and in vitro properties, the in vivo PK protocol described provides better mechanistic understanding of the PK behaviour of a compound or class of compounds. The higher level of interpretation and use of in vitro and in vivo data better describe the disposition properties and give an estimation of the biophase concentration of the drug, providing a clear guidance for the design of higher quality molecules. Moreover, the collection of a broader set of in vivo and in vitro PK data improves the predictability of the DMPK science and it can allow an integrated safety risk assessment.

IMPORTANCE OF THE FIELD: With the emergence of therapeutic candidates for the incurable and rapidly progressive neurodegenerative condition of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS), it will be essential to develop easily obtainable biomarkers for diagnosis, as well as monitoring, in a disease where clinical examination remains the predominant diagnostic tool. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) has greatly developed over the past thirty years since its initial introduction to neuroscience. With multi-modal applications, MRI is now offering exciting opportunities to develop practical biomarkers in ALS. AREAS COVERED IN THIS REVIEW: The historical application of MRI to the field of ALS, its state-of-the-art and future aspirations will be reviewed. Specifically, the significance and limitations of structural MRI to detect gross morphological tissue changes in relation to clinical presentation will be discussed. The more recent application of diffusion tensor imaging (DTI), magnetic resonance spectroscopy (MRS), functional and resting-state MRI (fMRI &amp; R-fMRI) will be contrasted in relation to these more conventional MRI assessments. Finally, future aspirations will be sketched out in providing a more disease mechanism-based molecular MRI. WHAT THE READER WILL GAIN: This review will equip the reader with an overview of the application of MRI to ALS and illustrate its potential to develop biomarkers. This discussion is exemplified by key studies, demonstrating the strengths and limitations of each modality. The reader will gain an expert opinion on both the current and future developments of MR imaging in ALS. TAKE HOME MESSAGE: MR imaging generates potential diagnostic, prognostic and therapeutic monitoring biomarkers of ALS. The emerging fusion of structural, functional and potentially molecular imaging will improve our understanding of wider cerebral connectivity and holds the promise of biomarkers sensitive to the earliest changes.



Adeno-associated viral (AAV) vectors, which are undergoing broad exploration in clinical trials, have significant promise for therapeutic gene delivery because of their safety and delivery efficiency. Gene delivery technologies capable of mediating localized gene expression may further enhance the potential of AAV in a variety of therapeutic applications by reducing spread outside a target region, which may thereby reduce off-target side effects. We have genetically engineered an AAV variant capable of binding to surfaces with high affinity through a hexa-histidine metal-binding interaction. This immobilized AAV vector system mediates high-efficiency delivery to cells that contact the surface and thus may have promise for localized gene delivery, which may aid numerous applications of AAV delivery to gene therapy.
We recently showed genomewide linkage of centrotemporal sharp waves (CTS) in classic Rolandic epilepsy (RE) families to chromosome 11p13, and fine-mapped this locus to variants in the ELP4 gene. Speech sound disorder (SSD) is a common comorbidity in RE subjects, of unknown etiology, which co-aggregates in family members in a manner that could hypothetically be explained by shared underlying genetic risk with CTS. Furthermore, the neural mechanism of SSD is unknown, although individuals with rare, Mendelian forms of RE are described with severe verbal and oromotor apraxia. We therefore first performed genomewide linkage analysis for SSD, operationally defined as clinical history consistent with ICD-10 speech articulation disorder, in 38 families singly ascertained through a proband with RE. We tested the hypothesis of shared genetic risk with CTS at the 11p13 locus. In the second part of the study we used computerized acoustic analysis of recorded speech to test the hypothesis of dyspraxia as a mechanism for SSD in a smaller subset of RE probands and relatives. In two-point and multipoint LOD score analysis, we found that evidence for linkage to the 11p13 locus increased substantially when the phenotype was broadened from CTS to CTS/SSD. In multipoint analysis, the LOD score rose by 3.2 to HLOD 7.54 at D11S914 for CTS/SSD, the same marker at which multipoint linkage maximized for CTS alone. Non-parametric, affected-only methods in a sub-set of the data provide further confirmatory evidence for pleiotropy. In acoustic analysis there were voice-onset time abnormalities in 10/18 RE probands, 8/16 siblings and 5/15 parents, providing evidence of breakdown in the spatial/temporal properties of speech articulation consistent with a dyspraxic mechanism. The results from genetic and physiological studies suggest a pleiotropic role for the 11p13 locus in the development of both SSD and CTS, and also indicate a dyspraxic mechanism for the SSD linked to 11p13. Taken together, these data strongly support a neurodevelopmental origin for classic RE.
Schizophrenia and bipolar disorder are associated with dopamine neurotransmission and show high comorbidity with tobacco dependence. Recent evidence indicates that the family of the NR4A orphan nuclear receptors, which are expressed in dopamine neurons and in dopaminoceptive brain areas, may play a role in dopamine-mediated effects. We have, therefore, analysed the association of six single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) within the three genes belonging to the NR4A orphan nuclear receptor family, NR4A1 (rs2603751, rs2701124), NR4A2 (rs12803, rs834835) and NR4A3 (rs1131339, rs1405209), with the degree of smoking in a sample of 204 unrelated schizophrenia patients, which included 126 smokers and 78 non-smokers. SNPs within the NR4A3 gene (rs1131339 and rs1405209) were significantly associated with heavy smoking in this cohort, using a stepwise analysis of the escalated number of cigarettes smoked per day (P = 0.008 and 0.006, respectively; satisfying the Nyholt significance threshold of 0.009, an adjustment for multiple testing). We then repeated the association analysis of the NR4A3 markers (rs1131339 and rs1405209) in a larger cohort of 319 patients with bipolar disorder, which included 167 smokers and 152 non-smokers. We have replicated the positive association with smoking of the NR4A3 SNP rs1131339 in this group (P = 0.04), providing an important confirmation of the involvement of the NR4A3 gene in nicotine addiction in patients with mental health disease, a population significantly at risk for nicotine addiction.
Neuroscience-based representations and practices of the brain aimed at lay populations present the brain in ways that both affirm biological determinism and also celebrate plasticity, or the brain's ability to change structure and function. Popular uses of neuroscientific theories of brain plasticity are saturated with a neoliberal vision of the subject. Against more optimistic readings of plasticity, I view the popular deployment of plasticity through the framework of governmentality. I describe how popular brain discourse on plasticity opens up the brain to personal techniques of enhancement and risk avoidance, and how it promotes a neuronal self. I situate brain plasticity in a context of biomedical neoliberalism, where the engineering and modification of biological life is positioned as essential to selfhood and citizenship.

There is currently an intense debate about the nature of recognition memory and about the roles of medial temporal lobe subregions in recognition memory processes. At a larger level, this debate has been about whether it is appropriate to propose unified theories to explain memory at neural, functional, and phenomenological levels of analysis. Here, I review findings from physiology, functional imaging, and lesion studies in humans, monkeys, and rodents relevant to the roles of medial temporal lobe subregions in recognition memory, as well as in short-term memory and perception. The results from these studies are consistent with the idea that there is functional heterogeneity in the medial temporal lobes, although the differences among medial temporal lobe subregions do not precisely correspond to different types of memory tasks, cognitive processes, or states of awareness. Instead, the evidence is consistent with the idea that medial temporal lobe subregions differ in terms of the kind of information they process and represent, and that these regions collectively support episodic memory by binding item and context information.
This special issue reviews progress that has been made in recent years in understanding neural processing relevant for recognition memory. Here we describe how the nine reviews that comprise this issue weigh in on some of the most pressing and hotly debated issues in the study of recognition memory, including: (1) the number of processes that support recognition, (2) the nature of these processes, and (3) how these processes map onto neural processing events and brain structures. We then discuss the challenges inherent in attempting to incorporate the fundamentally different types of information that result from various cognitive neuroscience methods (e.g., electrophysiological recordings of neurons, lesion-deficit studies, analyses of brain potentials and activations, modeling of behavioral responses, and phenomenological reports), and make suggestions for how to better integrate these disparate data types when making inferences about recognition memory. As the articles in this special issue make clear, great strides have been made in understanding how organisms are able to appreciate repetition. And yet, several controversies in this area have still not been resolved, but these articles clarify the core disagreements as well as the tests that must be conducted to seek resolution. This special issue as a whole should thus facilitate advancements in the future study of the neural mechanisms of recognition.
We describe how the Complementary Learning Systems neural network model of recognition memory (Norman and O'Reilly (2003) Psychol Rev 104:611-646) can shed light on current debates regarding hippocampal and cortical contributions to recognition memory. We review simulation results illustrating three critical differences in how (according to the model) hippocampus and cortex contribute to recognition memory, all of which derive from the hippocampus' use of pattern separated representations. Pattern separation makes the hippocampus especially well-suited for discriminating between studied items and related lures; it makes the hippocampus especially poorly suited for computing global match; and it imbues the hippocampal ROC curve with a Y-intercept &gt; 0. We also describe a key boundary condition on these differences: When the average level of similarity between items in an experiment is very high, hippocampal pattern separation can fail, at which point the hippocampal model will start to behave like the cortical model. We describe the implications of these simulation results for extant debates over how to describe hippocampal versus cortical contributions and how to measure these contributions.
Small GTPase Rabs constitute the largest family of membrane trafficking proteins that are conserved in all eukaryotic cells. The number of different Rab isoforms in multicellular organisms is usually greater than that in unicellular organisms (e.g., approximately 60 different Rabs in each species of mammals investigated versus approximately 10 Rabs in yeasts). The expansion of Rab isoforms in mammals is often regarded as due to the acquisition of specialized membrane trafficking events in the specialized cell types of higher eukaryotes. However, because of their large numbers the precise function of most mammalian Rab isoforms is still unknown. The recent development of new tools for comprehensive analysis (e.g., Rab panels) has paved the way for systematic investigation of the involvement of mammalian Rab isoforms in specialized membrane trafficking events. The tools include collections of enhanced green fluorescent protein (EGFP)-tagged mouse and human Rabs, FLAG-tagged Rabs, glutathione S-transferase (GST)-tagged Rabs, Gal4-binding domain (GBD)-tagged Rabs, Tre-2/Bub2/Cdc16 (TBC) domain-containing Rab-GTPase-activating proteins (GAPs), and small interfering RNAs. EGFP-Rabs are used to screen for Rabs that are localized on specific organelles and regulate their transport, and GST-Rabs and GBD-Rabs are used to screen for novel Rab effectors by GST pull-down assays and yeast two-hybrid assays, respectively. Combined use of these tools now makes it possible to efficiently determine the function of mammalian Rab isoforms in membrane traffic. This article reviews the development of new tools for systematic analysis of Rab proteins and their application to Rab-mediated membrane traffic.
Prior research shows that menopause is associated with changes in cognition in some older women. However, how estrogen loss and subsequent estrogen treatment affects cognition and particularly the underlying brain processes responsible for any cognitive changes is less well understood. We examined the ability of estradiol to modulate the manipulation of information in working memory and related brain activation in postmenopausal women. Twenty healthy postmenopausal women (mean age (SD)=59.13 (5.5)) were randomly assigned to three months of 1mg oral 17- estradiol or placebo. At baseline and three months later each woman completed a visual verbal N-back sequential letter test of working memory during functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI). The fMRI data showed that women who were treated with estradiol for three months had increased frontal activation during the more difficult working memory load conditions compared to women treated with placebo. Performance on the verbal working memory task showed no difference between estradiol and placebo treated subjects. These data are consistent with prior work showing increases in frontal activation on memory tasks after estrogen treatment. However, this is the first study to show that estrogen-induced increases in brain activity were tied to cognitive load during a verbal working memory task. These data suggest that estradiol treatment effects on cognition may be in part produced through modulation of frontal lobe functioning under difficult task conditions.
The impact of stressful events on processes related to cardiovascular functioning might vary with previous stressor experiences, just as such sensitization effects have been detected with respect to several neurochemical and hormonal processes. The present investigation assessed the impact of a psychosocial stressor on factors directly or indirectly related to cardiovascular functioning among CD-1 mice that had previously experienced an acute or chronic stressor regimen. These factors included plasma variations of atrial and brain natriuretic peptides (ANP and BNP, respectively), inflammatory cytokines in plasma, mRNA expression of natriuretic peptides and inflammatory cytokines in the ventricles, and norepinephrine (NA) levels and utilization within the locus coeruleus, a brain region implicated in cardiac functioning. A social stressor (exposure to a dominant mouse) increased NE levels and utilization within the locus coeruleus, plasma corticosterone, cytokine and ANP levels. Among mice initially exposed to an acute stressor (restraint), NE utilization, ventricular ANP mRNA expression, and plasma interleukin-6 (IL-6) concentrations were markedly increased by the subsequent social stressor. In chronically stressed mice some of the effects of the social stressor were dampened, including changes of plasma corticosterone, locus coeruleus NE utilization, as well as plasma and ventricular IL-6 mRNA expression. Conversely, plasma ANP was markedly enhanced by the combined stressor events as was ventricular BNP and IL-1 mRNA expression. It seems that stressors may profoundly influence (sensitize or desensitize) on factors that could influence cardiovascular functioning. It remains to be determined whether these actions would be translated as pathophysiological outcomes.
Estrogens act in the adult brain to modulate cognition, enhancing performance on some learning tests and impairing performance on others. Our previous research has revealed an impairing effect of chronic 17-estradiol treatment in young and aged rats on a prefrontally-mediated working memory task, delayed spatial alternation (DSA). Little is known about the mechanisms of these impairing effects. The current study examined the effects of selective estrogen receptor (ER)  or ER activation on DSA performance in middle-aged female rats. Ovariectomized 12 month old Long-Evans (LE) rats were treated by subcutaneous injection with the ER agonist propyl pyrazole triol (PPT) or the ER agonist diarylpropionitrile (DPN) at 0.02, 0.08, or 0.20mg/kg/day, or with oil vehicle and tested on an operant variable delay DSA task. A 17-estradiol group (10% in cholesterol) was included as a positive control group. We replicated our previous finding of a 17-estradiol induced deficit on DSA performance and this effect was paralleled by low dose (0.02mg/kg/day) DPN treatment. Higher doses of DPN failed to produce a significant change in performance. The highest dose of PPT (0.20mg/kg/day) also impaired performance, but this effect was subtle and limited to the longest delay during the final block of testing. These data confirm our earlier findings that chronic 17-estradiol treatment has an impairing effect on the DSA task, and suggest that ER activation may underlie the deficit.
While there is considerable evidence that the ovarian hormone estradiol reduces food intake in female rats, it is unclear which estrogen receptor (ER) subtype, ER or ER, mediates this effect. While several studies have demonstrated that activation of ER, but not ER, is sufficient to reduce food intake in ovariectomized (OVX) rats, there are limited data regarding which receptor subtype is necessary. Here we used the selective ER and ER antagonists, MPrP and PHTPP, respectively, to investigate this question. We found that antagonism of ER, but not ER, prevented the decrease in food intake following acute administration of estradiol in OVX rats. In addition, antagonism of ER prevented the estrous-related, phasic reduction in food intake that occurs in response to the rise in circulating levels of estradiol in cycling rats. We conclude that activation of ER is necessary for the anorexigenic effects of exogenous and endogenous estradiol in female rats.
Though several studies have suggested that estradiol improves hippocampal-dependent spatial memory, the effects of other hormones in the hypothalamic-pituitary-gonadal axis on memory have largely been ignored. Estradiol and luteinizing hormone (LH) are generally inversely related and LH may significantly affect spatial memory. Ovariectomized (ovx) rats treated with Antide (a gonadotropin releasing hormone receptor antagonist) had low LH levels and showed enhanced spatial memory, comparable to treatment with estradiol. Antide-treated ovx females retained spatial memory longer than estradiol-treated ovx females. Deficits in spatial memory are a primary symptom of neurodegenerative disorders including Alzheimer's disease (AD). Treatment with Antide prevented spatial memory deficits in a neurotoxin-induced model typical of early AD. These data suggest that memory impairments seen in female rats after ovariectomy or women after menopause may be due to high LH levels and that a reduction in LH enhances memory. These results also implicate an LH lowering agent as a potential preventative therapy for AD.
Variability in human behavior related to sex is supported by neuroimaging studies showing differences in brain activation patterns during cognitive task performance. An emerging field is examining the human connectome, including networks of brain regions that are not only temporally-correlated during different task conditions, but also networks that show highly correlated spontaneous activity during a task-free state. Both task-related and task-free network activity has been associated with individual task performance and behavior under certain conditions. Therefore, our aim was to determine whether sex differences exist during a task-free resting state for two networks associated with cognitive task performance (executive control network (ECN), salience network (SN)) and the default mode network (DMN). Forty-nine healthy subjects (26 females, 23 males) underwent a 5-min task-free fMRI scan in a 3T MRI. An independent components analysis (ICA) was performed to identify the best-fit IC for each network based on specific spatial nodes defined in previous studies. To determine the consistency of these networks across subjects we performed self-organizing group-level ICA analyses. There were no significant differences between sexes in the functional connectivity of the brain areas within the ECN, SN, or the DMN. These important findings highlight the robustness of intrinsic connectivity of these resting state networks and their similarity between sexes. Furthermore, our findings suggest that resting state fMRI studies do not need to be controlled for sex.
Neuroimaging studies investigating somatosensory-based object recognition in humans have revealed activity in the lateral occipital complex, a cluster of regions primarily associated with visual object recognition. To date, determining whether this activity occurs during or subsequent to recognition per se, has been difficult to assess due to the low temporal resolution of the hemodynamic response. To more finely measure the timing of somatosensory object recognition processes we employed high density EEG using a modified version of a paradigm previously applied to neuroimaging experiments. Simple geometric shapes were presented to the right index finger of 10 participants while the ongoing EEG was measured time locked to the stimulus. In the condition of primary interest participants discriminated the shape of the stimulus. In the alternate condition they judged stimulus duration. Using traditional event-related potential analysis techniques we found significantly greater amplitudes in the evoked potentials of the shape discrimination condition between 140 and 160 ms, a timeframe in which LOC mediated perceptual processes are believed to occur during visual object recognition. Scalp voltage topography and source analysis procedures indicated the lateral occipital complex as the likely source behind this effect. This finding supports a multisensory role for the lateral occipital complex during object recognition.
Studies on political participation have found that a person's interest in politics contributes to the likelihood that he or she will be involved in the political process. Here, we looked at whether or not interest in politics affects patterns of brain activity when individuals think about political matters. Using functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI), we scanned individuals (either interested or uninterested in politics based on a self-report questionnaire) while they were expressing their agreement or disagreement with political opinions. After scanning, participants were asked to rate each political opinion presented in the scanner for emotional valence and emotional intensity. Behavioral results showed that those political opinions participants agreed with were perceived as more emotionally intense and more positive by individuals interested in politics relative to individuals uninterested in politics. In addition, individuals interested in politics showed greater activation in the amygdala and the ventral striatum (ventral putamen) relative to individuals uninterested in politics when reading political opinions in accordance with their own views. This study shows that having an interest in politics elicits activations in emotion- and reward-related brain areas even when simply agreeing with written political opinions.
More than 145 mutations have been found in the gene CuZn-Superoxide dismutase (SOD1) in patients with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS). The vast majority are easily detected nucleotide mutations in the coding region. In a patient from a Swiss ALS family with half-normal erythrocyte SOD1 activity, exon flanking sequence analysis revealed a novel thymine to guanine mutation 7 bp upstream of exon 4 (c.240-7T&gt;G). The results of splicing algorithm analyses were ambiguous, but five out of seven analysis tools suggested a potential novel splice site that would add six new base pairs to the mRNA. If translated, this mRNA would insert Ser and Ile between Glu78 and Arg79 in the SOD1 protein. In fibroblasts from the patient, the predicted mutant transcript and the mutant protein were both highly expressed, and despite the location of the insertion into the metal ion-binding loop IV, the SOD1 activity appeared high. In erythrocytes, which lack protein synthesis and are old compared with cultured fibroblasts, both SOD1 protein and enzymic activity was 50% of controls. Thus, the usage of the novel splice site is near 100%, and the mutant SOD1 shows the reduced stability typical of ALS-associated mutant SOD1s. The findings suggests that this novel intronic mutation is causing the disease and highlights the importance of wide exon-flanking sequencing and transcript analysis combined with erythrocyte SOD1 activity analysis in comprehensive search for SOD1 mutations in ALS. We find that there are potentially more SOD1 mutations than previously reported.

Schizophrenia patients show alterations in the synaptic connectivity. However, it remains unknown whether antipsychotic response may be altered depending on the synaptic connectivity. We tested this association using polymorphisms in the neurexin 1 gene (NRXN1). Large NRXN1 deletions have also been associated with schizophrenia. We genotyped four variants in 140 schizophrenia patients assessed prospectively for clozapine response after 6 months. We observed a trend toward association of clozapine response with the rs12467557 (permuted p=0.051). These results should be read with caution before independent replication.
The 23rd Congress of the European College of Neuropsychopharmacology (ECNP), held in Amsterdam, included topics covering new therapeutic developments in the field of neuropsychopharmacology. This conference report highlights selected presentations on potential psychotropic drug targets, the relationship between psychiatric disorders and pain, treatments for depression and anxiety disorders, the role of glucocorticoid receptors in memory consolidation, and the use of anticonvulsants in impulse disorders.
Alzheimer's disease (AD) is the most common cause of dementia in the elderly, wherein, the accumulation of amyloid beta (Abeta) peptide as cytotoxic oligomers leads to neuropathologic changes. Transgenic mice with brain Abeta plaques immunized with aggregated Abeta have reduced amyloid burden and improved cognitive functions. However, such active immunization in humans led to a small but significant occurrence of meningoencephalitis in 6% AD volunteers due to Abeta induced toxicity. In an attempt to develop safer alternative vaccines, the design of a highly soluble peptide homologous to Abeta (Abeta-EK), that has a reduced amyloidogenic potential while maintaining the major immunogenic epitopes of Abeta is reported. More importantly, this homologue has been shown to be non-toxic, as this peptide failed to exert any observable effect on erythrocytes. The results of the present study suggests that immunization with non-toxic Abeta derivative may offer a safer therapeutic approach to AD, instead of using toxic Abeta fibrils.





Dysfunction of brain dopamine transporter (DAT) has been associated with sensation seeking and impulse-control disorders. We recently generated a new animal model by stereotaxical inoculation of lentiviral vectors, which allowed localized intra-accumbal delivery of modulators for DAT gene: GFP (green fluorescent protein) control, silencers (Sil), a regulatable enhancer (DAT+), or both (DAT+Sil). Wistar male rats were followed both for socio-emotional profiles and for propensity to seek risky, uncertain rewards. Elevated anxiety and affiliation towards an unfamiliar partner emerged in Sil rats. Interestingly, in DAT+Sil rats (and Sil rats to a lesser extent) levels of playful social interaction were markedly reduced compared to controls. These DAT+Sil rats displayed a marked 'gambling-like' profile (i.e. preference for a large/uncertain over a small/sure reward), which disappeared upon doxycycline-induced switch-off onto DAT enhancer, but consistently reappeared with doxycycline removal. MRI-guided 1H-MRS (at 4.7 T) examinations in vivo (under anaesthesia) revealed changes in the bioenergetic metabolites (phosphocreatine and total creatine) for DAT+Sil rats, indicating a functional up-regulation of dorsal striatum (Str) and conversely a down-regulation of ventral striatum (i.e. nucleus accumbens, NAc). A combined profile of (1) enhanced proneness to gambling and (2) strong social withdrawal is thus associated with altered DAT-induced balance within forebrain dopamine systems. In fact, risk of developing a gambling-prone, social-avoidant psychopathology might be associated with (1) dominant semi-automatic strategies and/or habits, developed within Str circuits, and (2) reduced NAc function, with poorer feedback adjustment on decisions by aversive experiences.


The sophistication of intracellular Ca ( 2+) signalling reflects the necessity for the many different types of cells to fine tuning their specific activities. This can, at least in part, be explained by the molecular complexity of the Ca ( 2+) signalling machinery, consisting of different intracellular Ca ( 2+) release channel types, each including multiple isoforms and alternative splicing variants. This commentary will go over the main points concerning expression and functional characterization of alternative splicing variants of inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate and ryanodine receptor isoforms. Many of these variants display specific activation or regulatory features. In addition, dominant negative effects of non-functional alternative splicing variants have been also described for both InsP3Rs and RyRs channels. Recently, a novel RyR2 transcript has been identified by Takasawa and co-workers in pancreatic islets. This novel RyR2 transcript has been proposed to act as an intracellular target for cADPR signalling, which has been demonstrated to be important for insulin secretion. Future characterization of this RyR2 transcript may represent a significant advancement in understanding the mechanisms underlying regulation of Ca ( 2+) release by cADPR.
We examined differences among 158 children, 44 with selective mutism (SM; M = 8.2 years, SD = 3.4 years), 65 with mixed anxiety (MA; M = 8.9 years, SD = 3.2 years), and 49 community controls (M = 7.7 years, SD = 2.6 years) on primary caregiver, teacher, and child reports of behavioral and socio-emotional functioning. Children with SM were rated lower than controls on a range of social skills, but the SM and MA groups did not significantly differ on many of the social skills and anxiety measures. However, children with SM were rated higher than children with MA and controls on social anxiety. Findings suggest that SM may be conceptualized as an anxiety disorder, with primary deficits in social functioning and social anxiety. This interpretation supports a more specific classification of SM as an anxiety disorder for future diagnostic manuals than is currently described in the literature. The present findings also have implications for clinical practice, whereby social skills training merits inclusion in intervention for children with anxiety disorders as well as children with SM.
There exists a divide between findings from integrative neuroscience and clinical research focused on mechanisms of psychopathology. Specifically, a clear correspondence does not emerge between clusters of complex clinical symptoms and dysregulated neurobiological systems, with many apparent redundancies. For instance, many mental disorders involve multiple disruptions in putative mechanistic factors (e.g., excessive fear, deficient impulse control), and different disrupted mechanisms appear to play major roles in many disorders. The Research Domain Criteria (RDoC) framework is a heuristic to facilitate the incorporation of behavioral neuroscience in the study of psychopathology. Such integration might be achieved by shifting the central research focus of the field away from clinical description to more squarely examine aberrant mechanisms. RDoC first aims to identify reliable and valid psychological and biological mechanisms and their disruptions, with an eventual goal of understanding how anomalies in these mechanisms drive psychiatric symptoms. This approach will require new methods to ascertain samples, relying on hypothesized psychopathological mechanisms to define experimental groups instead of traditional diagnostic categories. RDoC, by design, uncouples research efforts from clinically familiar categories to focus directly on fundamental mechanisms of psychopathology. RDoC proposes a matrix of domains and levels of analyses and invites the field to test and refine the framework. If RDoC is successful, the domains will ultimately relate to familiar psychopathologies in ways that promote new knowledge regarding etiology and more efficient development of new preventive and treatment interventions.
The study of conduct disorder (CD) in girls is characterized by several nosologic controversies that center on the most common age of onset, the most valid symptom threshold, and the possible inclusion of other manifestations of antisocial behavior and dimensions of personality as part of the definition of CD. Data from a prospective, longitudinal study of a community sample of 2,451 racially diverse girls were used to empirically inform these issues. Results revealed that adolescent-onset CD is rare in girls. There was mixed support for the threshold at which symptoms are associated with impairment: Parent-reported impairment provided the clearest evidence of maintaining the current Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders (4th ed.; American Psychiatric Association, 1994) threshold of 3 symptoms. The impact of callousness and relational aggression on impairment varied by informant, with small effects for parent- and youth-reported impairment and larger effects for teacher-rated impairment relative to the effects for CD. These results support arguments for revising the typical age of onset of CD for girls but for maintaining the current symptom threshold. The results also suggest the need to consider subtyping according to the presence or absence of callousness. Given its content validity, relational aggression requires further study in the context of oppositional defiant disorder and CD.
Sleep is dependent upon prior brain activities, e.g., after prolonged wakefulness sleep rebound occurs. These effects are mediated, in part, by humoral sleep regulatory substances such as cytokines. However, the property of wakefulness activity that initiates production and release of such substances and thereby provides a signal for indexing prior waking activity is unknown. We propose that extracellular ATP, released during neuro- and gliotransmission and acting via purine type 2 (P2) receptors, is such a signal. ATP induces cytokine release from glia. Cytokines in turn affect sleep. We show here that a P2 receptor agonist, 2'(3')-O-(4-benzoylbenzoyl)adenosine 5'-triphosphate (BzATP), increased non-rapid eye movement sleep (NREMS) and electroencephalographic (EEG) delta power while two different P2 receptor antagonists, acting by different inhibitory mechanisms, reduced spontaneous NREMS in rats. Rat P2X7 receptor protein varied in the somatosensory cortex with time of day, and P2X7 mRNA was altered by interleukin-1 treatment, by sleep deprivation, and with time of day in the hypothalamus and somatosensory cortex. Mice lacking functional P2X7 receptors had attenuated NREMS and EEG delta power responses to sleep deprivation but not to interleukin-1 treatment compared with wild-type mice. Data are consistent with the hypothesis that extracellular ATP, released as a consequence of cell activity and acting via P2 receptors to release cytokines and other sleep regulatory substances, provides a mechanism by which the brain could monitor prior activity and translate it into sleep.
Stem cells always balance between self-renewal and differentiation. Hence, stem cell culture parameters are critical and need to be continuously refined according to progress in our stem cell biology understanding and the latest technological developments. In the past few years, major efforts have been made to define more precisely the medium composition in which stem cells grow or differentiate. This led to the progressive replacement of ill-defined additives such as serum or feeder cell layers by recombinant cytokines or growth factors. Another example is the control of the oxygen pressure. For many years cell cultures have been done under atmospheric oxygen pressure which is much higher than the one experienced by stem cells in vivo. A consequence of cell metabolism is that cell culture conditions are constantly changing. Therefore, the development of high sensitive monitoring processes and control algorithms is required for ensuring cell culture medium homeostasis. Stem cells also sense the physical constraints of their microenvironment. Rigidity, stiffness, and geometry of the culture substrate influence stem cell fate. Hence, nanotopography is probably as important as medium formulation in the optimization of stem cell culture conditions. Recent advances include the development of synthetic bioinformative substrates designed at the micro- and nanoscale level. On going research in many different fields including stem cell biology, nanotechnology, and bioengineering suggest that our current way to culture cells in Petri dish or flasks will soon be outdated as flying across the Atlantic Ocean in the Lindbergh's plane.
Galpha(i)-coupled receptors comprise a diverse family of receptors that induce transformation by largely unknown mechanisms. We previously found that the Galpha(i)-coupled dopamine-D2short (D2S) receptor transforms Balb-D2S cells via Gi3. To identify new Gi effectors, a yeast two-hybrid screen was done using constitutively active Gi3-Q204L as bait, and tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF)-induced protein 8 (TNFAIP8, SCC-S2/NDED/GG2-1) was identified. In contrast, TNFAIP8-related TIPE1 and TIPE2 showed a very weak interaction with Gi3. In yeast mating, in vitro pull-down, co-immunoprecipitation and bioluminescence resonance energy transfer (BRET) assays, TNFAIP8 preferentially interacted with activated Gi proteins, consistent with direct Gi-TNFAIP8 coupling. Over-expression or depletion of TNFAIP8 using antisense constructs in Balb-D2S cells did not affect D2S-induced signaling to Gi-dependent inhibition of cAMP. In contrast, antisense depletion of TNFAIP8 completely inhibited spontaneous and D2S-induced foci formation, consistent with a role for TNFAIP8 in Gi-dependent transformation. To address possible mechanisms, the effect of D2S signaling via TNFAIP8 on TNF action was examined. D2S receptor activation inhibited TNF-induced cell death in Balb-D2S cells, but not in cells depleted of TNFAIP8. However, depletion of TNFAIP8 did not prevent D2S-induced inhibition of TNF-mediated caspase activation, suggesting that D2S/TNFAIP8-induced protection from TNF-induced cell death is caspase-independent. The data suggest that Gi-TNFAIP8-mediated rescue of pre-oncogenic cells enhances progression to oncogenic transformation, providing a selective target to inhibit cellular transformation.
TM601 is a synthetic polypeptide with sequence derived from the venom of the scorpion Leiurus quinquestriatus that has anti-neoplastic activity. It has recently been demonstrated to bind annexin A2 on cultured tumor and vascular endothelial cells and to suppress blood vessel growth on chick chorioallantoic membrane. In this study, we investigated the effects of TM601 in models of ocular neovascularization (NV). When administered by intraocular injection, intravenous injections, or periocular injections, TM601 significantly suppressed the development of choroidal NV at rupture sites in Bruch's membrane. Treatment of established choroidal NV with TM601 caused apoptosis of endothelial cells and regression of the NV. TM601 suppressed ischemia-induced and vascular endothelial growth factor-induced retinal NV and reduced excess vascular permeability induced by vascular endothelial growth factor. Immunostaining with an antibody directed against TM601 showed that after intraocular or periocular injection, TM601 selectively bound to choroidal or retinal NV and co-localized with annexin A2, which is undetectable in normal retinal and choroidal vessels, but is upregulated in endothelial cells participating in choroidal or retinal NV. Intraocular injection of plasminogen or tissue plasminogen activator, which like TM601 bind to annexin A2, also suppressed retinal NV. This study supports the hypothesis that annexin A2 is an important target for treatment of neovascular diseases and suggests that TM601, through its interaction with annexin A2, causes suppression and regression of ocular NV and reduces vascular leakage and thus may provide a new treatment for blinding diseases such as neovascular age-related macular degeneration and diabetic retinopathy.
The breakdown of the blood-brain barrier (BBB) has been considered to be a key step in the disease process of a number of neurological disorders such as cerebral ischemia and Alzheimer's disease. Many in vitro BBB models derived from animal tissues have been established to elucidate the mechanism of BBB insufficiency. However, only a few human immortalized in vitro BBB models have been reported. In the present study, a temperature-sensitive SV40-T antigen was introduced to immortalize cells using a retrovirus to obtain a better human in vitro BBB model which sustains physiological properties. This endothelial cell (EC) line, termed TY08, showed a spindle-shaped morphology. The cells expressed all key tight junctional proteins, such as occludin, claudin-5, zonula occludens (ZO)-1 and ZO-2 at their cell-to-cell boundaries, and had low permeability to inulin across its monolayer. The cells also expressed various influx and efflux transporters and exhibited the functional expression of p-glycoprotein. Furthermore, the TY08 cells grew and proliferated well under the permissive temperature and stopped growing under the non-permissive temperature to serve as physiological ECs forming the BBB. Thus, conditionally immortalized TY08 cells retaining the in vivo BBB functions should facilitate analyses for determining the pathophysiology of various neurological diseases.
Recent studies have proposed an interrelation between the brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) val66met polymorphism and the serotonin system. In this study, we investigated whether the BDNF val66met polymorphism or blood BDNF levels are associated with cerebral 5-hydroxytryptamine 2A (5-HT(2A)) receptor or serotonin transporter (SERT) binding in healthy subjects. No statistically significant differences in 5-HT(2A) receptor or SERT binding were found between the val/val and met carriers, nor were blood BDNF values associated with SERT binding or 5-HT(2A) receptor binding. In conclusion, val66met BDNF polymorphism status is not associated with changes in the serotonergic system. Moreover, BDNF levels in blood do not correlate with either 5-HT(2A) or SERT binding.
Aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH) affects approximately 27,000 Americans per year. Although delayed cerebral vasospasm is of high clinical significance, mortality within the first 2 days may approach 30%. In this issue of the Journal of Cerebral Blood Flow and Metabolism, Lee et al have studied the role of iron in early brain injury after experimental SAH. They found that iron chelation with deferoxamine reduced mortality and oxidative DNA damage, and lessened the induction of iron-handling proteins. Taken together, these results highlight the deleterious potential of blood breakdown products and provide an insight into future intervention.
Visualizing neuromorphology and in particular neuropathology has been the focus of many researchers in the quest to solve the numerous questions that are still remaining related to several neurological and neuropsychiatric diseases. Over the last years, intense research into microscopy techniques has resulted in the development of various new types of microscopes, software imaging systems, and analysis programs. This review briefly discusses some key techniques, such as confocal stereology and automated neuron tracing and reconstruction, and their applications in neuroscience research. Special emphasis is placed on needs for further developments, such as the demand for higher-throughput analyses in quantitative neuromorphology. These developments will advance basic neuroscience research as well as pharmaceutical and biotechnology research and development.
Recent progress in pediatric neurosciences has greatly increased the divide between the possibilities for diagnosis and intervention among developed countries and resource-poor countries, where child neurologists suffer from the lack of adequate training, the absence of a network with professionals around the world, and the shortage of infrastructure. The International Child Neurology Association (ICNA) is the only child neurology association that can deal with these important issues and promote the reduction of this gap. In this article, the author reviews the role played by ICNA in the past 2 decades in supporting education worldwide, in offering teaching seminars and visits by senior members, and in addressing the needs of the global community of child neurologists. The challenges and success of ICNA in the promotion of educational resources and recommendations for the future are discussed.
Accurate, noninvasive measures of body composition are needed for management of patients with spinal muscular atrophy. Fat mass index (fat mass/height(2) in kg/m(2)) was measured in 16 subjects with spinal muscular atrophy using 5 bioelectrical impedance analysis equations and compared with a reference method, dual-energy x-ray absorptiometry. The machine default equation, validated by Cordain, was the primary analysis. Fat mass index calculated by impedance measures differed by between -2.5 kg/m(2) and 1.7 kg/m(2) from the reference mean (8.3  5.0 kg/m(2)). The Cordain equation provided the smallest difference (-0.4  2.0 kg/m(2)), with correlation coefficient of 0.92. The Cordain equation showed high sensitivity (85.7%) and specificity (100%) for prediction of ''at risk for overweight'' (fat mass index &gt; 85th percentile for age and gender). Although insufficiently accurate for use as a research tool, bioelectrical impedance can have application as a well-tolerated, noninvasive, easily used screening tool for excess adiposity in patients with spinal muscular atrophy.
The study's aim was to assess a broad range of declarative and nondeclarative memory functions in schizophrenia to identify areas of impairment versus relative preservation. Participants included 40 schizophrenia outpatients and 30 demographically comparable community residents. All participants were administered a battery assessing declarative memory (verbal learning, working memory, semantic memory, remote memory, verbal retention) and nondeclarative memory (procedural learning, priming). To control for order effects, the battery was divided into three parts of approximately equal length with order of administration counterbalanced across study participants. The results showed persons with schizophrenia to be significantly impaired relative to community residents in verbal learning, working memory, semantic memory, remote memory, and priming. In contrast, the two groups were comparable in verbal retention and procedural learning. In the schizophrenia group, priming ability best discriminated past year's vocational status. In sum, the findings indicate a specific pattern of impairment and preservation of memory functioning in schizophrenia. Skill (procedural) learning and retention of learned, declarative verbal information across a delay appear intact, while all other areas measured appear impaired.
Anterior cervical discectomy and fusion (ACDF) may lead to complications such as dysphagia, hoarseness, recurrent laryngeal nerve palsy, vocal cord palsy, dural tears with leakage of cerebrospinal fluid, haematoma, and oesophageal and vascular injuries. Hypopharyngeal injury in the early postoperative period is a rare, but life-threatening, problem. We present a patient with dyspnoea who developed subcutaneous emphysema in the early postoperative period after an iatrogenic hypopharyngeal injury following ACDF. These complications prolonged the postoperative course of the patient. The role of careful surgical intervention, and anticipation of potential complications, has been emphasized, especially when surgical exposure of the anterior spinal canal above C(4) is required.
Issue: Blockade of 5-HT7 receptors may be a novel therapeutic approach for achieving antidepressant and memory-enhancing actions.

Cognitive neuroscientists habitually deny that functional neuroimaging can furnish causal information about the relationship between brain events and behavior. However, imaging studies do provide causal information about those relationships-although not causal certainty. Although popular portrayals of functional neuroimaging tend to attribute too much inferential power to the technique, we should restrain ourselves from ascribing it too little.
We examined the organization and function of the ventral object processing pathway. The prevailing theoretical approach in this field holds that the ventral object processing stream has a modular organization, in which visual perception is carried out in posterior regions and visual memory is carried out, independently, in the anterior temporal lobe. In contrast, recent work has argued against this modular framework, favoring instead a continuous, hierarchical account of cognitive processing in these regions. We join the latter group and illustrate our view with simulations from a computational model that extends the perceptual-mnemonic feature-conjunction model of visual discrimination proposed by Bussey and Saksida [Bussey, T. J., &amp; Saksida, L. M. The organization of visual object representations: A connectionist model of effects of lesions in perirhinal cortex. European Journal of Neuroscience, 15, 355-364, 2002]. We use the extended model to revisit early data from Iwai and Mishkin [Iwai, E., &amp; Mishkin, M. Two visual foci in the temporal lobe of monkeys. In N. Yoshii &amp; N. Buchwald (Eds.), Neurophysiological basis of learning and behavior (pp. 1-11). Japan: Osaka University Press, 1968]; this seminal study was interpreted as evidence for the modularity of visual perception and visual memory. The model accounts for a double dissociation in monkeys' visual discrimination performance following lesions to different regions of the ventral visual stream. This double dissociation is frequently cited as evidence for separate systems for perception and memory. However, the model provides a parsimonious, mechanistic, single-system account of the double dissociation data. We propose that the effects of lesions in ventral visual stream on visual discrimination are due to compromised representations within a hierarchical representational continuum rather than impairment in a specific type of learning, memory, or perception. We argue that consideration of the nature of stimulus representations and their processing in cortex is a more fruitful approach than attempting to map cognition onto functional modules.
The aim of these experiments was to compare conceptual priming for linguistic and for a homogeneous class of nonlinguistic sounds, impact sounds, by using both behavioral (percentage errors and RTs) and electrophysiological measures (ERPs). Experiment 1 aimed at studying the neural basis of impact sound categorization by creating typical and ambiguous sounds from different material categories (wood, metal, and glass). Ambiguous sounds were associated with slower RTs and larger N280, smaller P350/P550 components, and larger negative slow wave than typical impact sounds. Thus, ambiguous sounds were more difficult to categorize than typical sounds. A category membership task was used in Experiment 2. Typical sounds were followed by sounds from the same or from a different category or by ambiguous sounds. Words were followed by words, pseudowords, or nonwords. Error rate was highest for ambiguous sounds and for pseudowords and both elicited larger N400-like components than same typical sounds and words. Moreover, both different typical sounds and nonwords elicited P300 components. These results are discussed in terms of similar conceptual priming effects for nonlinguistic and linguistic stimuli.
Although many neuroimaging studies have considered verbal and visual short-term memory (STM) as relying on neurally segregated short-term buffer systems, the present study explored the existence of shared neural correlates supporting verbal and visual STM. We hypothesized that networks involved in attentional and executive processes, as well as networks involved in serial order processing, underlie STM for both verbal and visual list information, with neural specificity restricted to sensory areas involved in processing the specific items to be retained. Participants were presented sequences of nonwords or unfamiliar faces, and were instructed to maintain and recognize order or item information. For encoding and retrieval phases, null conjunction analysis revealed an identical fronto-parieto-cerebellar network comprising the left intraparietal sulcus, bilateral dorsolateral prefrontal cortex, and the bilateral cerebellum, irrespective of information type and modality. A network centered around the right intraparietal sulcus supported STM for order information, in both verbal and visual modalities. Modality-specific effects were observed in left superior temporal and mid-fusiform areas associated with phonological and orthographic processing during the verbal STM tasks, and in right hippocampal and fusiform face processing areas during the visual STM tasks, wherein these modality effects were most pronounced when storing item information. The present results suggest that STM emerges from the deployment of modality-independent attentional and serial ordering processes toward sensory networks underlying the processing and storage of modality-specific item information.
Human electrophysiological research is generally restricted to scalp EEG, magneto-encephalography, and intracranial electrophysiology. Here we examine a unique patient cohort that has undergone decompressive hemicraniectomy, a surgical procedure wherein a portion of the calvaria is removed for several months during which time the scalp overlies the brain without intervening bone. We quantify the differences in signals between electrodes over areas with no underlying skull and scalp EEG electrodes over the intact skull in the same subjects. Signals over the hemicraniectomy have enhanced amplitude and greater task-related power at higher frequencies (60-115 Hz) compared with signals over skull. We also provide evidence of a metric for trial-by-trial EMG/EEG coupling that is effective over the hemicraniectomy but not intact skull at frequencies &gt;60 Hz. Taken together, these results provide evidence that the hemicraniectomy model provides a means for studying neural dynamics in humans with enhanced spatial and temporal resolution.
Neurons in the subparafascicular area at the caudal border of the thalamus that contain the neuropeptide tuberoinfundibular peptide of 39 residues (TIP39) densely innervate several hypothalamic areas, including the paraventricular nucleus (PVN). These areas contain a matching distribution of TIP39's receptor, the parathyroid hormone receptor 2 (PTH2R). Frequent PTH2R coexpression with a vesicular glutamate transporter (VGlut2) suggests that TIP39 could presynaptically regulate glutamate release. By using immunohistochemistry we found CRH-ir neurons surrounded by PTH2R-ir fibers and TIP39-ir axonal projections in the PVN area of the mouse brain. Labeling hypothalamic neuroendocrine neurons by peripheral injection of fluorogold in PTH2R-lacZ knock-in mice showed that most PTH2Rs are on PVN and peri-PVN interneurons and not on neuroendocrine cells. Double fluorescent in situ hybridization revealed a high level of coexpression between PTH2R and VGlut2 mRNA by cells located in the PVN and nearby brain areas. Local TIP39 infusion (100 pmol) robustly increased pCREB-ir in the PVN and adjacent perinuclear zone. It also increased plasma corticosterone and decreased plasma prolactin. These effects of TIP39 on pCREB-ir, corticosterone, and prolactin were abolished by coinfusion of the ionotropic glutamate receptor antagonists 6-cyano-7-nitroquinoxaline-2,3-dione (CNQX) and DL-2-amino-5-phosphonopentanoic acid (AP-5; 30 pmol each) and were absent in PTH2R knockout mice. Basal plasma corticosterone was slightly decreased in TIP39 knockout mice just before onset of their active phase. The present data indicate that the TIP39 ligand/PTH2 receptor system provides facilitatory regulation of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis via hypothalamic glutamatergic neurons and that it may regulate other neuroendocrine systems by a similar mechanism.
Olfactory ensheathing glia (OEG) are distinct from other glia in their developmental origin, presence in both the peripheral and central nervous systems, and highly restricted location. OEG are present only in the olfactory lamina propria, olfactory nerve, and the outer two layers of the olfactory bulb, where they envelop bundles of olfactory sensory neuron axons in a manner distinct from myelination. Because of their unique properties and their association with the continually generated olfactory sensory neurons, OEG have attracted interest for their potential capacity to support axonal regeneration, for example, after spinal cord injury. However, study of the properties and function of OEG has been hampered by a paucity of neurochemical markers with which to identify and distinguish them definitively from other types of glia. Here we provide evidence through anatomical colocalization studies that OEG express the water channel aquaporin 1 (AQP1), both in vivo and in vitro. We propose that AQP1 expression represents an important distinguishing characteristic of OEG, which may impart unique function to these glia.
Previously, a cannabinoid-dependent form of long-term depression (LTD) was discovered at the polysynaptic connection between the touch mechanosensory neuron and the S interneuron (Li and Burrell in J Comp Physiol A 195:831-841, 2009). In the present study, the physiological properties of this cannabinoid-dependent LTD were examined. Increases in intracellular calcium in the S interneuron are necessary for this form of LTD in this circuit. Calcium signals contributing to cannabinoid-dependent LTD are mediated by voltage-dependent calcium channel and release of calcium from intracellular stores. Inositol triphosphate receptors, but not ryanodine receptors, appear to mediate this store-released calcium signal. Cannabinoid-dependent LTD also requires activation of metabotropic serotonin receptors, possibly a serotonin type 2-like receptor. Finally, this form of LTD involves the stimulation of nitric oxide synthase and a decrease in cyclic adenosine monophosphate signaling, both of which appeared to be downstream of cannabinoid receptor activation. Based on these findings, the cellular signaling mechanisms of cannabinoid-dependent LTD in the leech are remarkably similar to vertebrate forms of cannabinoid-dependent synaptic plasticity.
When introduced into a novel environment that limits or prevents vision, a variety of species including Mexican blind cavefish (Astyanax mexicanus) exhibit wall-following behaviors. It is often assumed that wall following serves an exploratory function, but this assertion remains untested against alternative artifactual explanations. Here, we test whether wall following by cavefish is a purposeful behavior in which fish actively maintain a close relationship with the wall, or an artifactual consequence of being enclosed in a small concave arena, in which fish turn slightly to avoid the wall whenever it impedes forward movement. Wall-following abilities of fish were tested in a large, goggle-shaped arena, where forward motion along the convex wall was unimpeded. In this circumstance, cavefish continued to follow the wall at frequencies significantly above chance levels. Lateral line inactivation significantly reduced the ability of fish to follow convex, but not concave or straight, walls. Wall-following abilities of normal fish decreased with decreasing radius of wall convex curvature. Our results demonstrate that cavefish actively follow walls of varying contours. Radius-of-curvature effects coupled with the difficulties posed by convex walls to lateral line-deprived fish suggest a partially complementary use of tactile and lateral line information to regulate distance from the wall.
Common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) show either a left- or right-hand preference for reaching to pick up food and they retain the same preference throughout adult life. We compared the behavior of 10 right-handed and 10 left-handed marmosets, matched for age and sex. They were presented with live crickets both when alone and when in their social group. The marmosets captured more crickets and the latency to capture the first cricket was shorter when they were in a group than when they were alone. This effect of social facilitation was significantly greater for right- than left-handed individuals. The number of vocalizations (tsik, crackle, very brief whistle, cough, and phee) produced by the left- and right-handed marmosets differed significantly: right-handed marmosets produced an increased number of all of these calls when the crickets were presented, whereas left-handed marmosets did not show a change from pretesting levels. The right-handed marmosets also produced more tsik (mobbing) calls than left-handed marmosets when they were presented with a fear-inducing stimulus and performed more head cocking and parallax movements than the left-handed marmosets. Hence, hand preference is associated with differences in exploratory and social behavior, the latter including vocal communication.



Ehlers-Danlos syndrome (EDS) type IV is a connective tissue disorder characterized by the inability to produce sufficient amounts of collagen or a defect in the structure of collagen. The most serious complications include a rupture of a viscus or vascular rupture with or without mural dissection. Death may result from internal hemorrhage. This report describes three cases of sudden and unexpected death caused by EDS type IV. Two cases involved hemothorax as a result of dissection of the subclavian artery and aorta, respectively. The third case represented spontaneous pulmonary rupture and hemorrhage. A detailed family history should be sought, and additional specimens collected to confirm the diagnosis, including skin fibroblasts for collagen testing and blood for DNA testing. The forensic pathologist should consider the possibility of EDS type IV upon discovery of spontaneous visceral or arterial rupture and should alert the family members of this hereditary and potentially fatal condition.
Lie detection procedures are typically aimed at determining guilt or innocence of a single suspect. Serious security threats, however, often involve groups, such as terrorist networks or criminal organizations. In this report, we describe a variant of the skin conductance-based Concealed Information Test (CIT) that allows for the extraction of critical information from such groups. Twelve participants were given information about an upcoming (mock) terrorist attack, with specific instructions not to reveal this information to anyone. Next, each subject was subjected to a CIT, with questions pertaining to the details of the attack. Results showed that for every question, the average skin conductance response to the correct answer option differed significantly (p &lt; 0.05) from those to all other options. These results show that the information about the upcoming attack could be extracted from the group of terror suspects as a whole.

The T cell inhibitory ligand B7-H1 hinders T cell-mediated virus control, but also ameliorates clinical disease during autoimmune and virus-induced CNS disease. In mice infected with gliatropic demyelinating coronavirus, B7-H1 expression on oligodendroglia delays virus control, but also dampens clinical disease. To define the mechanisms by which B7-H1 alters pathogenic outcome, virus-infected B7-H1-deficient (B7-H1(-/-)) mice were analyzed for altered peripheral and CNS immune responses. B7-H1 deficiency did not affect peripheral T or B cell activation or alter the magnitude or composition of CNS-infiltrating cells. However, higher levels of IFN- mRNA in CNS-infiltrating virus-specific CD8 T cells as well as CD4 T cells contributed to elevated IFN- protein in the B7-H1(-/-) CNS. Increased effector function at the single-cell level was also evident by elevated granzyme B expression specifically in virus-specific CNS CD8 T cells. Although enhanced T cell activity accelerated virus control, 50% of mice succumbed to infection. Despite enhanced clinical recovery, surviving B7-H1(-/-) mice still harbored persisting viral mRNA, albeit at reduced levels compared with wild-type mice. B7-H1(-/-) mice exhibited extensive loss of axonal integrity, although demyelination, a hallmark of virus-induced tissue damage, was not increased. The results suggest that B7-H1 hinders viral control in B7-H1 expressing glia cells, but does not mediate resistance to CD8 T cell-mediated cytolysis. These data are the first, to our knowledge, to demonstrate that B7-H1-mediated protection from viral-induced immune pathology associated with encephalomyelitis resides in limiting T cell-mediated axonal bystander damage rather than direct elimination of infected myelinating cells.

Spontaneous confabulation involves the production of false or distorted memories, and is commonly associated with ventromedial prefrontal damage. One influential theory proposes that the critical deficit is a failure to suppress currently irrelevant memory traces that intrude into ongoing thinking (Schnider &amp; Ptak, 1999). In this study, we report experimental investigations with three spontaneously confabulating patients aimed at exploring this account. Using Schnider and Ptak's (1999) continuous recognition paradigm, we replicated their experimental results with our patients. However, our data suggest that the critical impairment might be more generalized than a failure to suppress currently irrelevant memories. First, a temporal source monitoring task failed to show that previous memory traces intrude into the present. Second, a reality monitoring task revealed that confabulating patients had a tendency to misidentify imagined events as real, a result that cannot be explained in terms of temporal confusion. This error was specific to confabulating patients and was not shared by non-confabulating ACoA patients. Our data therefore suggest a more generalized impairment in source monitoring, not only on the basis of temporality or current relevance, but across a range of contextual domains, including information used to distinguish real memories from imaginings.
Memory impairment is common following traumatic brain injury (TBI), but interventions to improve memory in persons with TBI have been ineffective. Retrieval practice is a robust memory strategy among healthy undergraduates, whereby practice retrieving information shortly after it is presented leads to better delayed recall than simple restudy. In a verbal paired associate paradigm, we investigated the effect of retrieval practice relative to massed and spaced restudy on delayed recall in 14 persons with chronic memory impairment following a TBI and 14 age-matched healthy controls. A significant learning condition (massed restudy, spaced restudy, retrieval practice) by group (TBI, healthy) interaction emerged, whereby only healthy controls benefited from spaced restudy (i.e., distributed learning) over massed restudy, but both groups greatly benefited from retrieval practice over massed and spaced restudy. That is, retrieval practice greatly improves memory in persons with TBI, even when other mnemonic strategies (e.g., distributed learning) are less effective.
A constellation of deficits, termed the cerebellar cognitive affective syndrome (CCAS), has been reported following acquired cerebellar lesions. We studied emotion identification and the cognitive control of emotion in children treated for acquired tumors of the cerebellum. Participants were 37 children (7-16 years) treated for cerebellar tumors (19 benign astrocytomas (AST), 18 malignant medulloblastomas (MB), and 37 matched controls (CON). The Emotion Identification Task investigated recognition of happy and sad emotions in music. In two cognitive control tasks, we investigated whether children could identify emotion in situations in which the emotion in the music and the emotion in the lyrics was either congruent or incongruent. Children with cerebellar tumors identified emotion as accurately and quickly as controls (p &gt; .05), although there was a significant interaction of emotions and group (p &lt; .01), with the MB group performing less accurately identifying sad emotions, and both cerebellar tumor groups were impaired in the cognitive control of emotions (p &lt; .01). The fact that childhood acquired cerebellar tumors disrupt cognitive control of emotion rather than emotion identification provides some support for a model of the CCAS as a disorder, not so much of emotion as of the regulation of emotion by cognition.
The Stop Signal Task (SST) is a measure that has been used widely to assess response inhibition. We conducted a meta-analysis of studies that examined SST performance in patients with various psychiatric disorders to determine the magnitude and generality of deficient inhibition. A five-item instrument was used to assess the methodological quality of studies. We found medium deficits in stop signal reaction time (SSRT), reflecting the speed of the inhibitory process, for attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) (g = 0.62), obsessive compulsive disorder (OCD) (g = 0.77) and schizophrenia (SCZ) (g = 0.69). SSRT was less impaired or normal for anxiety disorder (ANX), autism, major depressive disorder (MDD), oppositional defiant disorder/conduct disorder (ODD/CD), pathological gambling, reading disability (RD), substance dependence, and Tourette syndrome. We observed a large SSRT deficit for comorbid ADHD + RD (g = 0.82). SSRT was less than moderately impaired for ADHD + ANX and ADHD + ODD/CD. Study quality did not significantly affect SSRT across ADHD studies. This confirms an inhibition deficit in ADHD, and suggests that comorbid ADHD has different effects on inhibition in patients with ANX, ODD/CD, and RD. Further studies are needed to firmly establish an inhibition deficit in OCD and SCZ.
Behaviorally spontaneous confabulation is characterized by a confusion of reality evident in currently inappropriate acts that patients justify with confabulations and in disorientation. Here, we describe a 38-year-old woman lawyer hospitalized because of non-herpetic, presumably autoimmune, limbic encephalitis. For months, she considered herself at work and desperately tried to respect her falsely believed professional obligations. In contrast to a completely erroneous concept of reality, she did not confabulate about her remote personal past. In tasks proposed to test strategic retrieval monitoring, she produced no confabulations. As expected, she failed in tasks of reality filtering, previously shown to have high sensitivity and specificity for behaviorally spontaneous confabulation and disorientation: she failed to suppress the interference of currently irrelevant memories and she had deficient extinction capacity. The observation underscores the special status of behaviorally spontaneous confabulation among confabulatory phenomena and of reality filtering as a thought control mechanism. We suggest that different processes may underlie the generation of false memories and their verbal expression. We also emphasize the need to present theories of confabulation together with experimental tasks that allow one to empirically verify the theories and to explore underlying physiological mechanisms.
Ischemia/reperfusion (I/R) injury-induced oxidative stress plays an important role in the functional impairment of the bladder following acute bladder outlet obstruction (BOO) via induction of apoptosis. The purpose of this study was to investigate the time course of the bladder apoptosis, and apoptosis related molecular changes in the early stage of acute BOO. Twelve-week-old male Sprague Dawley rats were divided into control, acute BOO only (I), and acute BOO plus subsequent emptying (I/R) for 30, 60, 120 min, 3 days and 2 weeks. We examined the extent of bladder apoptosis, expression of Mn-superoxide dismutase (Mn-SOD), Bcl-2, Bax, caspase 3 and poly (ADP-ribose) (PAR) in the bladder. Bladder apoptosis was significantly increased in the I/R group at 30, 60, and 120 min following bladder emptying. BOO plus subsequent emptying for 30, 60, 120 min showed significant decrease in MnSOD and Bcl-2 expression, and significant increase in caspase 3, Bax expression, and amounts of PAR. These results indicate that bladder apoptosis, induced by acute BOO and subsequent emptying, is associated with decreased MnSOD expression, increased PARP activity and imbalance in apoptosis pathways.
An increase in brain suppressor of cytokine signaling 3 (SOCS3) has been implicated in the development of both leptin and insulin resistance. Socs3 mRNA is localized throughout the brain, and it remains unclear which brain areas are involved in the effect of SOCS3 levels on energy balance. We investigated the role of SOCS3 expressed in the mediobasal hypothalamus (MBH) in the development of diet-induced obesity in adult rats. Socs3 mRNA was down-regulated by local injection of adeno-associated viral vectors expressing a short hairpin directed against Socs3, after which we determined the response to high-fat high-sucrose choice diet. In contrast to neuronal Socs3 knockout mice, rats with SOCS3 knockdown limited to the MBH showed increased body weight gain, larger amounts of white adipose tissue, and higher leptin concentrations at the end of the experiment. These effects were partly due to the decrease in locomotor activity, as 24h food intake was comparable with controls. In addition, rats with Socs3 knockdown in the MBH showed alterations in their meal patterns: average meal size in the light period was increased and was accompanied by a compensatory decrease in meal frequency in the dark phase. In addition, neuropeptide Y (Npy) mRNA levels were significantly increased in the arcuate nucleus of Socs3 knockdown rats. Since leptin is known to stimulate Npy transcription in the absence of Socs3, these data suggest that knockdown of Socs3 mRNA limited to the MBH increases Npy mRNA levels, which subsequently decreases locomotor activity and alters feeding patterns.
By combining a few modules, the CNS may learn new control policies quickly and efficiently. Support for a modular organization of the motor system has recently come from the observation of low dimensionality in the motor commands. However, stronger evidence would come from testing the predictions on the effect of an intervention on the mechanisms required to implement a modular controller. Thus, the authors propose to test the predictions of modularity on motor adaptation. They argue that unlike a nonmodular controller, a modular controller must adapt faster to a perturbation that is compatible with the modules (i.e., one that can be compensated by reusing the same modules), than to an incompatible perturbation (i.e., one that requires new modules).
Brain-computer interfaces (BCIs) could provide important new communication and control options for people with severe motor disabilities. Most BCI research to date has been based on 4 assumptions that: (a) intended actions are fully represented in the cerebral cortex; (b) neuronal action potentials can provide the best picture of an intended action; (c) the best BCI is one that records action potentials and decodes them; and (d) ongoing mutual adaptation by the BCI user and the BCI system is not very important. In reality, none of these assumptions is presently defensible. Intended actions are the products of many areas, from the cortex to the spinal cord, and the contributions of each area change continually as the CNS adapts to optimize performance. BCIs must track and guide these adaptations if they are to achieve and maintain good performance. Furthermore, it is not yet clear which category of brain signals will prove most effective for BCI applications. In human studies to date, low-resolution electroencephalography-based BCIs perform as well as high-resolution cortical neuron-based BCIs. In sum, BCIs allow their users to develop new skills in which the users control brain signals rather than muscles. Thus, the central task of BCI research is to determine which brain signals users can best control, to maximize that control, and to translate it accurately and reliably into actions that accomplish the users' intentions.
The authors argue that &quot;true&quot; models that aim at faithfully mimicking or reproducing every property of the sensorimotor system cannot be compact as they need many free parameters. Consequently, most scientists in motor control use what are called &quot;false&quot; models--models that derive from well-defined approximations. The authors conceptualize these models as a priori limited in scope and approximate. As such, they argue that a quantitative characterization of the deviations between the system and the model, more than the mere act of falsifying, allows scientists to make progress in understanding the sensorimotor system. Ultimately, this process should result in models that explain as much data variance as possible. The authors conclude by arguing that progress in that direction could strongly benefit from databases of experimental results and collections of models.
Motor neuroscience is well over 100 years old, with seminal work such as G. T. Fritz and E. Hitzig's discovery of motor cortex occurring in 1870. Theoretical motor neuroscience has been ongoing for at least the last 50 years. How mature a scientific discipline is motor neuroscience? Are experimentalists and theoreticians working together productively to help the field progress? This article addresses these questions by advancing the following theses. Motor neuroscience remains at a descriptive stage due to the incredible complexity of the problem to be solved. The proliferation of models--and distinct modeling camps--stems from the absence of unifying conceptual constructs. To advance the field, theoreticians must rely more heavily on the concept of falsification by producing models that lend themselves to clear experimental testing.


Studies of the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) level of the dopamine metabolite, homovanillic acid (HVA), suggest a relationship between CSF HVA concentration and history of childhood trauma. In this study, the authors test the hypothesis that this relationship is also present using peripheral levels of HVA in healthy volunteers and in personality disordered subjects. 68 personality disordered (PD) and healthy control (HC) subjects were chosen, in whom morning basal plasma HVA (pHVA) concentrations and an assessment of childhood trauma were obtained. History of childhood trauma was assessed using the Childhood Trauma Questionnaire (CTQ). A significant inverse correlation was found between CTQ Total scores and pHVA concentration across all subjects. In addition, pHVA was lower, and CTQ scores were higher, in PD as compared with HC subjects. Correlations with other personality and behavioral measures were not statistically significant. The data suggest that pHVA concentrations are inversely correlated with history of childhood trauma and that variability in this index of dopamine function may be affected by the history of childhood trauma in healthy and personality disordered subjects.
NMDA receptors (NMDARs) mediate excitatory synaptic transmission during repetitive or prolonged glutamate release, playing a critical role in synaptic plasticity or cell death, respectively. Evidence indicates that a major pathway of NMDAR signaling to cell death in cortical and hippocampal neurons requires the scaffolding protein post-synaptic density 95 (PSD-95) and activation of neuronal nitric oxide synthase. However, it is not known if this PSD-95-dependent pathway contributes to excitotoxicity in other brain regions. It is also unclear whether the neuroprotective effects of Tat-NR2B9c, a membrane-permeant peptide that disrupts PSD-95/NMDAR binding, correlate with uncoupling NR2B- and/or NR2A-type NMDARs from PSD-95. In this study, we used cultured hippocampal and striatal neurons to test the potency of Tat-NR2B9c on uncoupling NR2 subunits from PSD-95 and protecting against NMDA-induced excitotoxicity. We found that the concentration of Tat-NR2B9c required to dissociate 50% of PSD-95 was fourfold lower for NR2B than NR2A in cultured hippocampal and striatal neurons, and that this concentration correlated tightly with protection against NMDA-induced toxicity in hippocampal neurons without altering NMDAR current. In contrast, NMDAR signaling to cell death in cultured striatal neurons occurred independently of the NR2B/PSD-95 interaction or neuronal nitric oxide synthase activation. These results will facilitate development of neuronal type-specific protective therapies.
Pleckstrin homology and leucine rich repeat protein phosphatases (PHLPPs) are a novel class of potent protein kinase B (AKT) inhibitors that have been intensely investigated in relation to AKT activity in cancer. Currently, our understanding of the role of PHLPP1 in the central nervous system is limited. In this study, we characterized PHLPP protein expression and target kinases in the adult hippocampus. We directly verify PHLPP1 inhibits AKT in hippocampal neurons and demonstrate a novel role for PHLPP1/SCOP, to promote AKT activation. PHLPP1 expression changes dramatically in the hippocampus during development, constituting the most abundant PHLPP protein in adult neurons. Further, while all PHLPP proteins could be observed in the cytosolic fraction, only PHLPP1 could be localized to the nucleus. The results provide unique evidence for a divergence in the function of PHLPP1 and PHLPP1/SCOP, and suggest that PHLPP1 plays a major role in regulating AKT signaling in neurons.
-Secretase mediates intramembranous -cleavage and -cleavage of -amyloid precursor protein (APP) to liberate -amyloid peptide (A) and APP intracellular domain respectively from the membrane. Although the regulatory mechanism of -secretase cleavage remains unresolved, a member of the p24 cargo protein family, named p24(1) or TMP21, has been identified as an activity-modulating component. The p24 family proteins are divided into four subfamilies (p24, ,  and ). In contrast to p24(1), p24(1) has reportedly no effect on -cleavage. In this study, we determined whether p24(2), p24(3) or p24(4) modulates APP processing. Knockdown of cellular p24(2) induced a significant increase in A generation but not in APP intracellular domain production in cell-based and cell-free assays, whereas p24(2) over-expression suppressed A secretion. By contrast, A secretion was not altered by p24(3) or p24(4) knockdown. Endogenous p24(2) co-immunoprecipitated with core components of the -secretase complex, and the anti-p24(2) immunoprecipitate exhibited -secretase activity. Mutational disruption of the conserved dilysine ER-retrieval motifs of p24(2) and p24(1) perturbed inhibition of -cleavage. Simultaneous knockdown, or co-over-expression, of these proteins had no additive or synergistic effect on A generation. Our findings suggest that dilysine ER-retrieval signal-containing p24 proteins, p24(2) and p24(1), bind with -secretase complexes and collaborate in attenuating -cleavage of APP.
There is increasing evidence that the incidence of Alzheimer's disease (AD) is significantly influenced by cardiovascular risk factors in association with a cluster of metabolic diseases including diabetes and atherosclerosis. The shared risk is also reflected in the dietary and lifestyle links to both metabolic disorders and AD-type cognitive dysfunction. Recent studies with genetic and diet-induced animal models have begun to illuminate convergent mechanisms and mediators between these two categories of disease conditions with distinct tissue-specific pathologies. Although it is clear that peripheral inflammation and insulin resistance are central to the pathogenesis of the disorders of metabolic syndrome, it seems that the same mechanisms are also in play across the blood-brain barrier that lead to AD-like molecular and cognitive changes. This review highlights these convergent mechanisms and discusses the role of cerebrovascular dysfunction as a conduit to brain emergence of these pathogenic processes that might also represent future therapeutic targets in AD in common with metabolic disorders.
In the United States, one-third of infected individuals contracted Human Immunodeficiency Virus-1 (HIV-1) via injecting drugs with contaminated needles or through risky behaviors associated with drug use. Research demonstrates concomitant administration of psychostimulants and HIV-1-proteins damage neurons to a greater extent than viral proteins or the drug alone. To model the onset of HIV-1-infection in relation to a history of drug use, the current research compared behavior and extracellular dopamine and metabolite levels following Tat(1-86) infusions in animals with and without a history of cocaine (Coc) experience (10 mg/kg; i.p.; 1 injection/day  9 days). Animals receiving a behaviorally sensitizing regimen of Coc demonstrated a decrease in extracellular dopamine concentration in the nucleus accumbens, consistent with evidence describing up-regulation of dopamine transporter uptake. Contrary to this effect, Tat(1-86) microinfusion into the nucleus accumbens following the sensitizing regimen of Coc caused a significant increase in extracellular dopamine levels (nM) within 48 h with no difference in percent of baseline response to Coc. After 72 h, Tat + Coc treated animals demonstrated a blunted effect on potassium-stimulated extracellular dopamine release (percent of baseline) with a corresponding decrease in expression of behavioral sensitization to Coc challenge. A persistent decrease in extracellular dopamine metabolite levels was found across all time-points in Tat-treated animals, regardless of experience with Coc. The current study provides evidence for divergent neurochemical and behavioral outcomes following Tat-treatment; contingent upon experience with Coc.
Vascular cognitive impairment (VCI) encompasses vascular dementia and is the second most common cause of dementing illness after Alzheimer's disease. The main causes of VCI are: cerebral small vessel disease; multi-infarct dementia; strategic infarct (i.e. located in a functionally-critical brain area); haemorrhage/microbleed; angiopathy (including cerebral amyloid angiopathy); severe hypoperfusion (e.g. cardiac arrhythmia); and hereditary vasculopathy (e.g. cerebral autosomal dominant arteriopathy with subcortical infarcts and leukoencephalopathy, CADASIL). In this systematic analysis, we aimed to relate cognitive and neuropathological features of experimental models to clinical VCI. We extracted data from 107 studies covering 16 models. These included: brief global ischaemic insults (in rats, mice or gerbils); chronic global hypoperfusion (rats, mice, gerbils); chronic hypertension (in primates or stroke-prone, spontaneously-hypertensive rats); multiple ischaemic lesions because of intra-vascular emboli (in rodents, rabbits or primates); strategic ischaemic lesions (in rats or mini-pigs); generalised vasculopathies, because of mutant Notch3, hyperhomocysteinaemia, experimental diabetes mellitus or lack of cerebral vasodilator M(5) receptors (rats or mice). Most cognitive testing showed deficits in working and reference memory. The lesions observed were microinfarcts, diffuse white matter lesions, hippocampal neuronal death, focal ischaemic lesions and micro-haemorrhages. The most-used model was bilateral carotid artery occlusion in rats, leading to chronic hypoperfusion and white matter injury.
We recently reported that age-related bradykinesia was associated with reduced dopamine (DA) tissue content, ser31 tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) phosphorylation, and total TH levels in substantia nigra (SN) only. In this study, we propose that these decreases result from reduced glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor family receptor -1 (GFR -1) levels in the aged (30-month-old) cohort of rats. Analysis of GFR -1 receptor protein in SN, striatum, ventral tegmental area, and nucleus accumbens from 12- and 30-month-old Brown-Norway/Fischer 344 F(1) hybrid rats revealed immunoreactivity at 48 and 52 kDa, bands previously characterized to correspond to soluble and glycosyl-phosphatidylinositol-linked forms of GFR -1, respectively. The nigrostriatal pathway had significantly greater levels of the soluble GFR -1 than the mesoaccumbens pathway. Aging significantly reduced soluble and total GFR -1 in the SN. The levels of GFR -1 significantly correlated with TH protein in SN, striatum, and nucleus accumbens, but only in the SN did GFR -1 significantly correlate with DA levels. Based on these observations and findings from the literature, we speculate that (i) GFR -1 receptor expression may regulate nigral DA bioavailability in vivo, (ii) age-related decreases in soluble GFR -1 in SN may contribute to bradykinesia in aging, and (iii) differences in expression of the GFR -1 forms between the nigrostriatal and mesoaccumbens pathways and allied tissue may indicate that glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor-signaling differs between these DA pathways.
We recently demonstrated that de novo lysophosphatidic acid (LPA) production in the spinal cord occurs in the early phase after nerve injury or LPA injection, and underlies the peripheral mechanisms of neuropathic pain. In this study, we examined the possible involvement of spinal cord microglia in such LPA-mediated functions. Intrathecal LPA injection rapidly increased the gene expression of CD11b and protein expression of phosphor-p38, accompanied by a morphological change of microglia from a ramified to amoeboid shape. Although early treatment with minocycline significantly inhibited LPA-induced neuropathic pain-like behavior and microglial activation, late treatment did not. Early treatment with minocycline also blocked LPA-evoked de novo LPA production and the increased activation of cytosolic phospholipase A(2), an LPA synthesis-related enzyme. Similar results were observed when the sciatic nerve was partially injured: early, but not late, treatment with minocycline significantly inhibited the injury-induced neuropathic pain, microglial activation, de novo LPA production and the underlying increased activation of cytosolic phospholipase A(2) as well as calcium-independent phospholipase A(2), another LPA synthesis-related enzyme. These findings suggest that the early phase of microglial activation is involved in de novo LPA production, and that this underlies the initial mechanisms of nerve injury-induced neuropathic pain.
The dual-specificity tyrosine(Y)-phosphorylation-regulated kinase 1A (Dyrk1A) gene is located on human chromosome 21 and encodes a proline-directed protein kinase that might be responsible for mental retardation and early onset of Alzheimer's disease (AD) in Down syndrome (DS) patients. Presenilin 1 (PS1) is a key component of the -secretase complex in the generation of -amyloid (A), an important trigger protein in the pathogenesis of AD. Increased Dyrk1A expression has been reported in human AD and DS brains. We previously showed that Dyrk1A increased A production in mammalian cells and transgenic mice that over-express Dyrk1A. In this study, we describe a potential mechanism by which A is increased in Dyrk1A-over-expressing DS and AD brains. First, we show that PS1 is phosphorylated by the Dyrk1A at Thr(354) and that this phosphorylation increases -secretase activity. Then, using transgenic mice that over-express human Dyrk1A, we demonstrate that phospho-Thr354-PS1 (pT354-PS1) expression is enhanced when Dyrk1A level is increased. We also show that pT354-PS1 is more stable than the unphosphorylated form of PS1. These results reveal a potential regulatory link between Dyrk1A and PS1 in the A pathway of DS and AD brains, suggesting that up-regulated Dyrk1A may accelerate AD pathogenesis through PS1 phosphorylation.
Arginine vasopressin (AVP) synthesised in the parvocellular region of the hypothalamic paraventricular nucleus and released into the pituitary portal vessels acts on the 1b receptor subtype (Avpr1b) present in anterior pituitary corticotrophs to modulate the release of adrenocorticotrophic hormone (ACTH). Corticotrophin-releasing hormone is considered the major drive behind ACTH release; however, its action is augmented synergistically by AVP. To determine the extent of vasopressinergic influence in the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis response to restraint and forced swimming stress, we compared the stress hormone levels [plasma ACTH in both stressors and corticosterone (CORT) in restraint stress only] following acute stress in mutant Avpr1b knockout (KO) mice compared to their wild-type controls following the administration of a novel Avpr1b antagonist. Restraint and forced swimming stress-induced increases in plasma ACTH were significantly diminished in mice lacking a functional Avpr1b and in wild-type mice that had been pre-treated with Avpr1b antagonist. A corresponding decrease in plasma CORT levels was also observed in acute restraint-stressed knockout male mice, and in Avpr1b-antagonist-treated male wild-type mice. By contrast, plasma CORT levels were not reduced in acutely restraint-stressed female knockout animals, or in female wild-type animals pre-treated with Avpr1b antagonist. These results demonstrate that pharmacological antagonism or inactivation of Avpr1b causes a reduction in the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis response, particularly ACTH, to acute restraint and forced swimming stress, and show that Avpr1b knockout mice constitute a model by which to study the contribution of Avpr1b to the HPA axis response to acute stressors.
Advanced Parkinson's disease patients require for their care the participation of a multidisciplinary team. Particularly in the late stages of the disease, motor complications due both to medication and to progression of the disease, together with non-motor complications, add to the complexity of their management. Increasing age of the population will increase the incidence and the prevalence of the disease, with more patients reaching an advanced age and a more advanced stage of the disease, thus creating a public health problem for which we have to be prepared.
The long-duration response (LDR) to levodopa is an important component of the therapeutic response to the drug in Parkinson's disease (PD). Some characteristics are peculiar: it is independent from peripheral pharmacokinetics of levodopa, but it is dependent on the intervals between doses and on the size of each dose. Once the LDR fully develops, it is stable and maximal. After stopping treatment, the decay rate is inversely related to the severity of PD; when the LDR decreases over time, the patients present a fluctuating motor response. Therapeutic strategies based on the development and maintenance of the LDR should be sought to maximize the clinical benefit induced by levodopa and to avoid the appearance of motor complications.
There is an increasing awareness that addictive disorders may occur in Parkinson's disease (PD), either typical substance-related addictions that are commonly known as dopamine dysregulation syndrome (DDS) or behavioral addictive syndromes, usually presenting as impulse control disorders (ICDs) that include pathological gambling, hypersexuality, compulsive eating and buying. DDS is characterized by the use of dopaminergic drugs in doses larger than those required to treat motor symptoms, despite the development of disabling dyskinesias. Case reporting and prospective studies have reported an association between ICDs and the use of dopamine-agonists (DAs) at greater doses, while DDS has been associated with levodopa at greater doses or short-acting DAs. Risk factors for addictions in PD include male sex, younger age or younger age at PD onset, history of substance use or bipolar disorder, and a personality profile characterized by impulsiveness. Functional neuroimaging studies such as functional MRI and PET have investigated in vivo the neurobiological basis of these pathologic behaviors. The management for clinically significant ICD symptoms should consist of modifications to dopamine replacement therapy (DRT), particularly DAs, which is usually associated with an improvement of ICDs, whereas there is no empiric evidence supporting the use of psychiatric drugs in ICDs in PD. Management of DDS is not easy, mainly because balancing the drugs in the long term could represent a difficult problem. Hypomanic and psychotic episodes are best managed with a reduction of DRT performed in hospital also by using atypical antipsychotics low dose.
Saccades and hand-tapping are both potential biomarkers in patients with Huntington's disease (HD). While it is well known that patients with manifest Huntington's disease display abnormalities in both of these tasks, less is known about how these abnormalities progress over time, or to what extent premanifest patients are affected. This study was designed to address these issues. We examined premanifest and manifest Huntington's cohorts, together with a group of controls, over a 3-year period. Data were collected using a portable head-mounted saccadometer and a computerised hand-tapping device. Both premanifest and manifest Huntington's disease patients display significant and systematic changes from year to year in the parameters describing saccadic latency, while controls remain unchanged. By contrast, although hand-tapping was abnormal in HD patients, annual changes were much smaller. Measuring the rate of progression of saccadic abnormalities in manifest HD patients may provide a way to track disease progression, and thus help to evaluate novel therapies to modify the disease. The clear-cut progression in saccadic abnormalities in the premanifest group may prove useful in the future as a predictor of time to disease onset.

Here, we report the case of a patient with cerebellar high-grade glioma that developed after the patient underwent treatment for medulloblastoma. A 34-year-old man visited our hospital with complaints of dizziness and truncal ataxia. Magnetic resonance image showed a cerebellar tumor with multiple cavernomas and two lesions that were suspected to be meningiomas. The cerebellar tumor was surgically removed. According to pathological examination, the tumor was a high-grade glioma that was positive for methylated O-6-methylguanine-DNA methyltransferase promoter. In the past, he had received radiotherapy at the age of 5, after which he was operated for desmoplastic medulloblastoma in his right cerebellar hemisphere. Seven years after the initial therapy, cavernoma-induced intracerebral hemorrhage of the right temporal lobe was noted. To our knowledge, this is the first case of radiation-induced double intracranial tumors accompanied by symptomatic cavernoma.
Mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) can abrogate the animal model of multiple sclerosis, experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE), but whether this therapeutic effect occurs entirely through systemic immune modulation and whether CNS infiltration occurs after peripheral delivery are uncertain. We studied the clinical and neuropathologic effects of intravenously administered human MSCs (hMSCs) in C57BL/6 mice with EAE. Human MSCs significantly reduced the clinical disease severity, particularly in later disease. Large numbers of hMSCs migrated into gray and white matter at all levels of the spinal cord in both naive mice and mice with EAE. In the latter, hMSCs accumulated over time in demyelinated areas. There were 2 distinct morphological appearances of the hMSCs in the tissue, that is, rounded and less numerous process-bearing forms; very few expressed neural markers. The number of spinal cord white matter lesions and areas of white matter demyelination were reduced after hMSC treatment compared with control treatment. These findings show that central nervous system infiltration occurs after peripheral delivery of hMSCs, that they accumulate where there is myelin damage, and that they are associated with a reduced extent of demyelination. These data support a potential role for hMSCs in autologous cell therapy in multiple sclerosis.
Evoked potentials (EPs) are observed in motor cortical local field potentials (LFPs) during movement execution (movement-related potentials [MRPs]) and in response to relevant visual cues (visual evoked potentials [VEPs]). Motor cortical EPs may be directionally selective, but little is known concerning their relation to other aspects of motor behavior, such as task timing and performance. We recorded LFPs in motor cortex of two monkeys during performance of a precued arm-reaching task. A time cue at the start of each trial signaled delay duration and thereby the pace of the task and the available time for movement preparation. VEPs and MRPs were strongly modulated by the delay duration, VEPs being systematically larger in short-delay trials and MRPs larger in long-delay trials. Despite these systematic modulations related to the task timing, directional selectivity was similar in short and long trials. The behavioral reaction time was positively correlated with MRP size and negatively correlated with VEP size, within sessions. In addition, the behavioral performance improved across sessions, in parallel with a slow decrease in the size of VEPs and MRPs. Our results clearly show the strong influence of the behavioral context and performance on motor cortical population activity during movement preparation and execution.
We commonly think of motor learning as a gradual process that makes small, adaptive steps in a consistent direction. We now report evidence that learning in pursuit eye movements could start with large, transient short-term alterations that stoke a more gradual long-term process. Monkeys tracked a target that started moving horizontally or vertically. After 250 ms of motion had produced a preinstruction eye velocity close to target velocity, an orthogonal component of target motion created an instructive change in target direction that was randomly in one of the two directions along the orthogonal axis. The preinstruction eye velocity in each trial expressed single-trial learning as a bias toward the direction of the instruction in the prior trial. The single-trial learning was forgotten within 4 to 10 s. Two observations implied that single-trial learning was not simply cognitive anticipation. First, the magnitude of the trial-over-trial change in eye velocity depended on the ongoing eye velocity at the time of the instruction in the prior trial. Single-trial learning was negligible if the prior trial had provided a well-timed cue without evoking any preinstruction eye velocity. Second, regular alternation of the direction of the instructive target motion caused reactive rather than anticipatory trial-over-trial changes in eye velocity. Humans showed very different responses that appeared to be based on cognitive anticipation rather than learning. We suggest that single-trial learning results from a low-level learning mechanism and may be a necessary prerequisite for longer-term modifications that are more permanent.
Variability in adult motor output is important for enabling animals to respond to changing external conditions. Songbirds are useful for studying variability because they alter the amount of variation in their song depending on social context. When an adult zebra finch male sings to a female (&quot;directed&quot;), his song is highly stereotyped, but when he sings alone (&quot;undirected&quot;), his song varies across renditions. Lesions of the lateral magnocellular nucleus of the anterior nidopallium (LMAN), the output nucleus of a cortical-basal ganglia circuit for song, reduce song variability to that of the stereotyped &quot;performance&quot; state. However, such lesions not only eliminate LMAN's synaptic input to its targets, but can also cause structural or physiological changes in connected brain regions, and thus cannot assess whether the acute activity of LMAN is important for social modulation of adult song variability. To evaluate the effects of ongoing LMAN activity, we reversibly silenced LMAN in singing zebra finches by bilateral reverse microdialysis of the GABA(A) receptor agonist muscimol. We found that LMAN inactivation acutely reduced undirected song variability, both across and even within syllable renditions, to the level of directed song variability in all birds examined. Song variability returned to pre-muscimol inactivation levels after drug washout. However, unlike LMAN lesions, LMAN inactivation did not eliminate social context effects on song tempo in adult birds. These results indicate that the activity of LMAN neurons acutely and actively generates social context-dependent increases in adult song variability but that social regulation of tempo is more complex.
Recent studies have found that some forms of endocannabinoid-dependent synaptic plasticity in the hippocampus are mediated through activation of transient potential receptor vanilloid (TRPV) receptors instead of cannabinoid receptors CB1 or CB2. The potential role for synaptic localization of TRPV receptors during endocannabinoid modulation of nociceptive synapses was examined in the leech CNS where it is possible to record from the same pair of neurons from one preparation to the next. Long-term depression (LTD) in the monosynaptic connection between the nociceptive (N) sensory neuron and the longitudinal (L) motor neuron was found to be endocannabinoid-dependent given that this depression was blocked by RHC-80267, an inhibitor of DAG lipase that is required for 2-arachidonoyl glycerol (2AG) synthesis. Intracellular injection of a second DAG lipase inhibitor, tetrahyrdolipstatin (THL) was also able to block this endocannabinoid-dependent LTD (ecLTD) when injected postsynaptically but not presynaptically. N-to-L ecLTD was also inhibited by the TRPV1 antagonists capsazepine and SB 366791. Bath application of 2AG or the TRPV1 agonists capsaicin and resiniferatoxin mimicked LTD and both capsaicin- and 2AG-induced depression were blocked by capsazepine. In addition, pretreatment with 2AG or capsaicin occluded subsequent expression of LTD induced by repetitive activity. Presynaptic, but not postsynaptic, intracellular injection of capsazepine blocked both activity- and 2AG-induced ecLTD, suggesting that a presynaptic TRPV-like receptor in the leech mediated this form of synaptic plasticity. These findings potentially extend the role ecLTD to nociceptive synapses and suggest that invertebrate synapses, which are thought to lack CB1/CB2 receptor orthologues, utilize a TRPV-like protein as an endocannabinoid receptor.
A decrease in the excitability of CA1 pyramidal neurons contributes to the age related decrease in hippocampal function and memory decline. Decreased neuronal excitability in aged neurons can be observed as an increase in the Ca(2+)- activated K(+)- mediated post burst afterhyperpolarization (AHP). In this study, we demonstrate that the slow component of AHP (sAHP) in aged CA1 neurons (aged-sAHP) is decreased 50% by application of the reducing agent dithiothreitol (DTT). The DTT-mediated decrease in the sAHP was age specific, such that it was observed in CA1 pyramidal neurons of aged (20-25 mo), but not young (6-9 mo) F344 rats. The effect of DTT on the aged-sAHP was blocked following depletion of intracellular Ca(2+) stores (ICS) by thapsigargin or blockade of ryanodine receptors (RyRs) by ryanodine, suggesting that the age-related increase in the sAHP was due to release of Ca(2+) from ICS through redox sensitive RyRs. The DTT-mediated decrease in the aged-sAHP was not blocked by inhibition of L-type voltage gated Ca(2+) channels (L-type VGCC), inhibition of Ser/Thr kinases, or inhibition of the large conductance BK potassium channels. The results add support to the idea that a shift in the intracellular redox state contributes to Ca(2+) dysregulation during aging.
This study investigated whether repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) delivered as continuous theta burst stimulation (cTBS) to left M1 degraded selective muscle activation in the contralateral and ipsilateral upper limb in healthy participants. Contralateral motor-evoked potentials (cMEPs) were elicited in left and right biceps brachii (BB) before either elbow flexion or forearm pronation. A neurophysiological index, the excitability ratio (ER), was computed from the relative size of BB cMEPs before each type of movement. Short interval intracortical inhibition (SICI) was assessed in cMEPs of right BB with paired-pulse TMS of left M1. Ipsilateral MEPs (iMEPs) and silent periods (iSPs) were measured in left BB with single-pulse TMS of left M1. Low-intensity cTBS was expected to suppress corticospinal output from left M1. A sham condition was also included. Real but not sham cTBS caused increases in BB ER bilaterally. In the right arm, ER increased because BB cMEPs before flexion were less facilitated, whereas cMEPs in the pronation task were unaffected. This was accompanied by an increase in left M1 SICI. In the left arm, ER increased because BB cMEPs before pronation were facilitated but were unaffected in the flexion task. There was also facilitation of left BB iMEPs. These changes in the left arm are consistent with inappropriate facilitation of left BB -motoneurons (MNs) before pronation. This is the first demonstration that cTBS of M1 can alter excitability of neurons controlling ipsilateral proximal musculature and degrade ipsilateral upper limb motor control, providing evidence that ipsilateral and contralateral M1 shape the spatial and temporal characteristics of proximal muscle activation appropriate for the task at hand.
When we reach for an object, we have to decide which arm to use and the direction in which to move. According to the established view, this is voluntarily controlled and programmed in advance in time-consuming and elaborate computations. Here, we systematically tested the motor strategy used by cats, monkeys, and humans when catching an object moving at high velocity to the left or right. In all species, targets moving to the right selectively initiated movement of the right forelimb and vice versa for targets moving to the left. Movements were from the start directed toward a prospective target position. In humans, the earliest onset of electromyographic activity from start of motion of the target ranged from 90 to 110 ms in different subjects. This indicates that the selection of the arm and specification of movement direction did not result from the subject's voluntary decision, but were determined in a reflex-like manner by the parameters of the target motion. As a whole the data suggest that control of goal-directed arm movement relies largely on an innate neuronal network that, when activated by the visual signal from the target, automatically guides the arm throughout the entire movement toward the target. In the view of the present data, parametric programming of reaching in advance seems to be superfluous.
The goal of this study was to obtain a better understanding of the physiological basis of errors of visual search. Previous research has shown that search errors occur when visual neurons in the frontal eye field (FEF) treat distractors as if they were targets. We replicated this finding during an inefficient form search and extended it by measuring simultaneously a macaque homologue of an event-related potential indexing the allocation of covert attention known as the m-N2pc. Based on recent work, we expected errors of selection in FEF to propagate to areas of extrastriate cortex responsible for allocating attention and implicated in the generation of the m-N2pc. Consistent with this prediction, we discovered that when FEF neurons selected a distractor instead of the search target, the m-N2pc shifted in the same, incorrect direction prior to the erroneous saccade. This suggests that such errors are due to a systematic misorienting of attention from the initial stages of visual processing. Our analyses also revealed distinct neural correlates of false alarms and guesses. These results demonstrate that errant gaze shifts during visual search arise from errant attentional processing.
There is growing interest to understand the molecular basis of complex cognitive processes. While neurotransmitter systems have frequently been examined, other, for example neuroimmunological factors have attracted much less interest. Recent evidence suggests that the A allele of the tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF-) 308GA single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP; rs1800629) enhances cognitive functions. However, it is also known that TNF- exerts divergent, region-specific effects on neuronal functioning. Thus the finding that the A allele is associated with enhanced cognitive performance may be due to regionally specific effects of TNF-. In this study, associations between the TNF- -308GA single nucleotide polymorphism (rs1800629) and cognitive function in an event-related potential (ERP) study in healthy participants (n = 96) are investigated. We focus on subprocesses of stimulus-response compatibility that are known to be mediated by different brain systems. The results show a dissociative effect of the TNF- 308GA SNP on ERPs reflecting attentional (N1) versus conflict and action selection processes [N2 and early-lateralized readiness potential (e-LRP)] between the AA/AG and the GG genotypes. Compared with the GG genotype group, attentional processes (N1) were enhanced in the combined AA/AG genotype group, while conflict processing functions (N2) and the selection of actions (LRP) were reduced. The results refine the picture of the effects of the TNF- -308GA SNP on cognitive functions and emphasize the known divergent effects of TNF- on brain functions.
Unexpected support-surface movements delivered during stance elicit &quot;first trial&quot; postural reactions, which are larger and cause greater instability compared with habituated responses. The nature of this first trial reaction remains unknown. We hypothesized that first trial postural reactions consist of a generalized startle reaction, with a similar muscle synergy as the acoustic startle response, combined with an automatic postural reaction. Therefore we compared acoustic startle responses to first trial postural reactions. Eight healthy subjects stood on a support surface that unexpectedly rotated backwards 10 times, followed by 10 startling acoustic stimuli, or vice versa. Outcome measures included full body kinematics and surface EMG from muscles involved in startle reactions or postural control. Postural perturbations and startling acoustic stimuli both elicited a clear first trial reaction, as reflected by larger kinematic and EMG responses. The ensuing habituation rate to repeated identical stimuli was comparable for neck and trunk muscles in both conditions. Onset latencies in neck muscles occurred significantly later for first trial perturbations compared with startle responses, but earlier in trunk muscles. Our results show that platform tilting initially induces reactions larger than needed to maintain equilibrium. For neck and trunk muscles, these first trial postural reactions resembled acoustic startle reflexes. First trial postural reactions may be triggered by interaction of afferent volleys formed by somatosensory and vestibular inputs. Acoustic startle reactions may also be partially triggered by vestibular inputs. Similar muscle activation driven by vestibular inputs may be the common element of first trial postural responses and acoustic startle reactions.
To provide a fundamental basis for understanding decision-making and decision confidence, we analyze a neuronal spiking attractor-based model of decision-making. The model predicts probabilistic decision-making with larger neuronal responses and larger functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) blood-oxygen-level-dependent (BOLD) responses on correct than on error trials because the spiking noise-influenced decision attractor state of the network is consistent with the external evidence. Moreover, the model predicts that the neuronal activity and the BOLD response will become larger on correct trials as the discriminability I increases and confidence increases and will become smaller as confidence decreases on error trials as I increases. Confidence is thus an emergent property of the model. In an fMRI study of an olfactory decision-making task, we confirm these predictions for cortical areas including medial prefrontal cortex and the cingulate cortex implicated in choice decision-making, showing a linear increase in the BOLD signal with I on correct trials, and a linear decrease on error trials. These effects were not found in a control area, the orbitofrontal cortex, where reward value useful for the choice is represented on a continuous scale but that is not implicated in the choice itself. This provides a unifying approach to decision-making and decision confidence and to how spiking-related noise affects choice, confidence, synaptic and neuronal activity, and fMRI signals.
It has been shown previously that background synaptic noise modulates the response gain of neocortical neurons. However, the role of the statistical properties of the noise in modulating firing rate is not known. Here, the dependence of firing rate on the statistical properties of the excitatory to inhibitory balance (EI) in cortical pyramidal neurons was studied. Excitatory glutamatergic and inhibitory GABAergic synaptic conductances were simulated as two stochastic processes and injected into individual neurons in vitro through use of the dynamic-clamp system. Response gain was significantly modulated as a function of the statistical interactions between excitatory and inhibitory synaptic conductances. Firing rates were compared for noisy synaptic conductance steps by varying either the EI correlation or the relative delay between correlated E and I. When inhibitory synaptic conductances exhibited a short temporal delay (5 ms) relative to correlated excitatory synaptic conductances, the response gain was increased compared with noise with no temporal delay but with an equivalent degree of correlation. The dependence of neuronal firing rate on the EI delay of the noisy background synaptic conductance suggests that individual excitatory pyramidal neurons are sensitive to the EI balance of the synaptic conductance. Therefore the statistical EI interactions encoded within the synaptic subthreshold membrane fluctuations are able to modulate neuronal firing properties.
We recorded neuronal activity in the supplementary eye field (SEF) while monkeys made saccades to targets that yielded rewards of variable amount and uncertainty of delivery. Some SEF cells (29%) represented the anticipated value of the saccade target. These neurons encoded the value of the reward option but did not reflect the action necessary to obtain the reward. A plurality of cells (45%) represented both saccade direction and value. These neurons reflect action value, i.e., the value that is expected to follow from a specific saccade. Other cells (13%) represented only saccade direction. The SEF neurons matched the monkey's risk-seeking behavior by responding more strongly to the uncertain reward options than would be expected based on their response to the sure options and the cued outcome probability. Thus SEF neurons represented subjective, not expected, value. Across the SEF population, option-value signals developed early, 120 ms prior to saccade execution. Action-value and saccade direction signals developed 60 ms later. These results suggest that the SEF is involved in transforming option-value signals into action-value signals. However, in contrast to other oculomotor neurons, SEF neurons did not reach a constant level of activity before saccade onset. Instead the activity level of many (52%) SEF neurons still reflected value at the time just before saccade initiation. This suggests that SEF neurons guide the selection of a saccade based on value information but do not participate in the initiation of that saccade.
Block of neurotransmission at the mammalian neuromuscular junction triggers an increase in the number of vesicles released (quantal content). The increase occurs whether nerve and muscle activity are both blocked by placement of a tetrodotoxin (TTX) containing cuff on the nerve or whether muscle activity is selectively blocked by injection of -bungarotoxin (BTX). We used ANOVA to examine whether the mechanism underlying the increase in quantal content differed between the two types of activity blockade. We found that TTX-induced blockade increased the probability of release (p), whereas BTX-induced blockade increased the number of releasable vesicles (n). The lack of increase in p when postsynaptic activity was blocked with BTX suggests that block of presynaptic activity triggers the increase. To determine whether n is regulated by mismatch of pre- and postsynaptic activity introduced by BTX injection we combined BTX and TTX and still found an increase in n. We conclude that block of acetylcholine binding to acetylcholine receptors during spontaneous release triggers the increase in n.
Our knowledge of thalamus function comes largely from anatomical studies showing, for example, that the ventroanterior (VA) and ventrolateral (VL) nuclei are connected to &quot;motor&quot; regions, whereas the mediodorsal (MD) nucleus is connected to prefrontal &quot;executive&quot; regions. Interestingly, Kunimatsu and Tanaka recently showed that preparatory signals for antisaccades (a motor response requiring executive control) were enhanced compared with prosaccades in the VA/VL but not in the MD, which is surprising given MD's connection to executive regions.
Cortical organization in the Etruscan shrew is of comparative interest because of its small size and because the Etruscan shrew is an amazing tactile hunter. Here we investigated cortical organization in Etruscan shrews by electrophysiological mapping. We developed an anesthesia protocol for this very small mammal in which we combined massive application of local anesthesia, very slow induction of general anesthesia, and passive cooling. Under this anesthesia regime, we characterized auditory, visual, and somatosensory cortical responses. We found that large parts of shrew cortex respond to such stimuli. Of the responsive sites, a small fraction (14%) responded to visual stimuli in a caudally located region. Another small fraction of sites (11%) responded to auditory stimuli in a centrally located region. The majority of sites (75%) responded to tactile stimuli. We identified two topographically organized somatosensory areas with small receptive fields referred to as putative primary somatosensory cortex and putative secondary somatosensory cortex. In a posterior-lateral region that partially overlaps with piriform cortex, we observed large somatosensory receptive fields and often polysensory responses. In an anterior-lateral region that partially overlaps with piriform cortex, we observed large unimodal somatosensory receptive fields. Our findings demonstrate a remarkable degree of tactile specialization in Etruscan shrew cortex.
Our eyes are constantly moving, allowing us to attend to different visual objects in the environment. With each eye movement, a given object activates an entirely new set of visual neurons, yet we perceive a stable scene. One neural mechanism that may contribute to visual stability is remapping. Neurons in several brain regions respond to visual stimuli presented outside the receptive field when an eye movement brings the stimulated location into the receptive field. The stored representation of a visual stimulus is remapped, or updated, in conjunction with the saccade. Remapping depends on neurons being able to receive visual information from outside the classic receptive field. In previous studies, we asked whether remapping across hemifields depends on the forebrain commissures. We found that, when the forebrain commissures are transected, behavior dependent on accurate spatial updating is initially impaired but recovers over time. Moreover, neurons in lateral intraparietal cortex (LIP) continue to remap information across hemifields in the absence of the forebrain commissures. One possible explanation for the preserved across-hemifield remapping in split-brain animals is that neurons in a single hemisphere could represent visual information from both visual fields. In the present study, we measured receptive fields of LIP neurons in split-brain monkeys and compared them with receptive fields in intact monkeys. We found a small number of neurons with bilateral receptive fields in the intact monkeys. In contrast, we found no such neurons in the split-brain animals. We conclude that bilateral representations in area LIP following forebrain commissures transection cannot account for remapping across hemifields.
Chemotherapy-induced peripheral neurotoxicity (CIPN) is a side effect limiting cisplatin (CDDP) and docetaxel (DOCE) treatment. Erythropoietin (EPO) is a hematopoietic growth factor also displaying neurotrophic properties. Evidence suggests that EPO's neuroprotective action may rely on PI3K/AKT pathway activation; however, data regarding the EPO neuroprotective mechanism are still limited. This study evaluated the effect of EPO on organotypic cultures of rat dorsal root ganglia (DRG) and in primary cultures of DRG-dissociated sensory neurons exposed to CDDP- and DOCE-induced neurotoxicity, aiming to investigate EPO's neuroprotective mechanism. Subsequently, the levels of AKT expression and activation were analyzed by Western blot in neurons exposed to CDDP or DOCE; AKT's role was further evaluated by using a chemical inhibitor of AKT activation, wortmannin. In these models EPO, was protective against both CDDP- and DOCE-induced cell death and against CDDP-induced neurite elongation reduction. A modulation of AKT activation was observed in CDDP-treated neurons, and the presence of wortmannin prevented EPO's neuroprotective action against CDDP toxicity but did not have any effect on EPO's protection against DOCE-induced toxicity, thus ruling out the PI3K-AKT pathway as the mechanism of EPO's effect in neuronal death prevention after DOCE exposure. Our results confirm in vitro the effectiveness of EPO as a neuroprotectant against both CDDP- and DOCE-induced neurotoxicity. In addition, a role of PI3K/AKT in EPO's protection against CDDP, but not against DOCE, neurotoxicity was shown, suggesting that alternative pathways could be involved in EPO's neuroprotective activity.
How neuroinflammation affects signaling pathways leading to human blood-brain barrier (BBB) dysfunction during HIV-1 infection is incompletely understood. We previously demonstrated that signal transducers and activators of transcription-1 (STAT1) signaling is involved in HIV-1 induced BBB damage and is relevant to viral neuropathogenesis. The objective of this study was to delineate the signaling pathways upstream and downstream of STAT1 involved in HIV-1-induced endothelial dysfunction. We show that HIV-1 activation of STAT1 and STAT3 in human brain microvascular endothelial cells (HBMEC) is associated with induction of promoter activity of the interferon-stimulated response element (ISRE)/interferon--activated sequence (GAS). The STAT1 inhibitor fludarabine diminished HIV-1-induced ISRE/GAS promoter activity. CCR5 neutralizing antibodies and the phosphoinositide-3-kinase (PI3K) inhibitor LY-294002 diminished HIV-1-induced phosphorylation of STAT1 and STAT3, significantly diminished HIV-1-induced ISRE/GAS promoter activity, and diminished virus-induced monocyte adhesion and transendothelial migration. HIV-1 infection did not phosphorylate janus kinases but induced activation of the phosphoinositide-dependent kinase-1 (PDK1) and the serine-threonine protein kinase AKT, both downstream effectors of PI3K. CCR5 antibodies also diminished virus-induced phosphorylation ofPDK1 and AKT. These results suggest that the chemokine receptor CCR5 is partially involved in HIV-1 binding to HBMEC and show cross-talk between STAT1 and PI3K pathways in HIV-1-induced BBB dysfunction.
In the field of cortical cellular physiology, much effort has been invested in understanding thick apical dendrites of pyramidal neurons and the regenerative sodium and calcium spikes that take place in the apical trunk. Here we focus on thin dendrites of pyramidal cells (basal, oblique, and tuft dendrites), and we discuss one relatively novel form of an electrical signal (&quot;NMDA spike&quot;) that is specific for these branches. Basal, oblique, and apical tuft dendrites receive a high density of glutamatergic synaptic contacts. Synchronous activation of 10-50 neighboring glutamatergic synapses triggers a local dendritic regenerative potential, NMDA spike/plateau, which is characterized by significant local amplitude (40-50 mV) and an extraordinary duration (up to several hundred milliseconds). The NMDA plateau potential, when it is initiated in an apical tuft dendrite, is able to maintain a good portion of that tuft in a sustained depolarized state. However, if NMDA-dominated plateau potentials originate in proximal segments of basal dendrites, they regularly bring the neuronal cell body into a sustained depolarized state, which resembles a cortical Up state. At each dendritic initiation site (basal, oblique, and tuft) an NMDA spike creates favorable conditions for causal interactions of active synaptic inputs, including the spatial or temporal binding of information, as well as processes of short-term and long-term synaptic modifications (e.g., long-term potentiation or long-term depression). Because of their strong amplitudes and durations, local dendritic NMDA spikes make up the cellular substrate for multisite independent subunit computations that enrich the computational power and repertoire of cortical pyramidal cells. We propose that NMDA spikes are likely to play significant roles in cortical information processing in awake animals (spatiotemporal binding, working memory) and during slow-wave sleep (neuronal Up states, consolidation of memories).


Traumatic injury to the central nervous system (CNS) is accompanied by the spreading damage of secondary degeneration, resulting in further loss of neurons and function. Partial transection of the optic nerve (ON) has been used as a model of secondary degeneration, in which axons of retinal ganglion cells in the ventral ON are spared from initial dorsal injury, but are vulnerable to secondary degeneration. We have recently demonstrated that early after partial ON injury, oxidative stress spreads through the ventral ON vulnerable to secondary degeneration via astrocytes, and persists in the nerve in aggregates of cellular debris. In this study, we show that diffuse transcranial irradiation of the injury site with far red to near infrared (NIR) light (WARP 10 LED array, center wavelength 670nm, irradiance 252W/m(-2), 30min exposure), as opposed to perception of light at this wavelength, reduced oxidative stress in areas of the ON vulnerable to secondary degeneration following partial injury. The WARP 10 NIR light treatment also prevented increases in NG-2-immunopositive oligodendrocyte precursor cells (OPCs) that occurred in ventral ON as a result of partial ON transection. Importantly, normal visual function was restored by NIR light treatment with the WARP 10 LED array, as assessed using optokinetic nystagmus and the Y-maze pattern discrimination task. To our knowledge, this is the first demonstration that 670-nm NIR light can reduce oxidative stress and improve function in the CNS following traumatic injury in vivo.
We tested the ability of two plasticity-promoting approaches to enhance recovery in a mouse model of incomplete spinal cord injury (SCI). Genetically, we reduced myelin-mediated inhibition of neural plasticity through Nogo66-receptor (NgR) gene deletion. Behaviorally, we utilized a novel multimodal exercise training paradigm. Adult mice of wild-type or NgR-null genotype were subjected to partial lateral hemisection (LHx) at C3-C4 with the intent of producing anatomically and functionally mild deficits. Exercise training or control treatment proceeded for 14 weeks. Behavioral outcomes were assessed prior to tract tracing and histological analysis. Genotype and training exerted differing effects on performance; training improved performance on a test related to the training regimen (task-specific benefit), whereas genotype also improved performance on more generalized behaviors (task-non-specific benefit). There were no significant histological differences across genotype or training assignment with regard to lesion size or axonal tract staining. Thus either NgR gene deletion or exercise training benefits mice with mild cervical spinal injury. In this lesion model, the effects of NgR deletion and training were not synergistic for the tasks assessed. Further work is required to optimize the interaction between pharmacological and physical interventions for SCI.

Ewing sarcoma (ES) is one of the most malignant tumors in children and young adults. We present here a new ES cell line, SS-ES-1, established from the left thoracic tumor of a 16-year-old female patient. The SS-ES-1 cells retained genotype, morphology, and growth rate for over 150 passages. Immunocytochemical staining showed the strong immunoreactivity for cytokeratin, epithelial membrane antigen, neurofilament, CD99, P53, Ki-67, platelet-derived growth factor receptor-, estrogen receptor- (ER-), and Bcl-2, but no reactivity for glial fibrillary acidic protein, epidermal growth factor receptor, and HER-2/neu. The presence of the type 1 EWS/FLI-1 fusion transcripts was confirmed by reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction. On the basis of the MTT assay results, GW2974, a dual inhibitor of epidermal growth factor receptor and HER-2/neu, exhibited only a weak cytotoxic response in SS-ES-1 cells. In contrast, tyrphostin A9, a specific inhibitor of platelet-derived growth factor receptor, had a high cytotoxic effect against these cells. Surprisingly, it was found that SS-ES-1 cells displayed a high sensitivity to 4OH-tamoxifen. In conclusion, the SS-ES-1 cell line shows unique cellular properties, which makes it a useful model for studying various aspects of the biology of ES. In addition, the results suggest that ER can be a good therapeutic target for ER + ES.
T-type calcium channels have been implicated in many behaviorally important neurophysiological processes, and altered channel activity has been linked to the pathophysiology of neurological disorders such as insomnia, epilepsy, Parkinson's disease, depression, schizophrenia, and pain. We have previously identified a number of potent and selective T-type channel antagonists (Barrow et al., 2007; Shipe et al., 2008; Yang et al., 2008). Here we describe the properties of the antagonist TTA-A2 [2-(4-cyclopropylphenyl)-N-((1R)-1-{5-[(2,2,2-trifluoroethyl)oxo]-pyridin-2-yl}ethyl)acetamide], assessed in patch-clamp experiments. TTA-A2 blocks T-type channels (Ca(v)3.1, 3.2, 3.3) voltage dependently and with high potency (IC(50) 100 nM). Stimulation at 3 Hz revealed additional use dependence of inhibition. A hyperpolarized shift of the channel availability curve and delayed channel recovery from inactivation suggest that the compound preferentially interacts with and stabilizes inactivated channels. The compound showed a 300-fold selectivity for Ca(v)3 channels over high-voltage activated calcium channels. Inhibitory effects on native T-type currents were confirmed in brain slice recordings from the dorsal lateral geniculate nucleus and the subthalamic nucleus. Furthermore, we demonstrate that in vivo T-type channel inhibition by TTA-A2 suppresses active wake and promotes slow-wave sleep in wild-type mice but not in mice lacking both Ca(v)3.1 and Ca(v)3.3, suggesting the selective effect of TTA-A2 on recurrent thalamocortical network activity. The discovery of the potent and selective T-type channel antagonist TTA-A2 has enabled us to study the in vivo effects of pharmacological T-channel inhibition on arousal in mice, and it will help to explore the validity of these channels as potential drug targets for sleep-related and other neurological diseases.
The intermediate zone of the spinal grey matter contains premotor interneurons mediating reflex actions of group I and II muscle afferents. However, limited information is available on how activity of inhibitory versus excitatory interneurons in this population are modulated and how they contribute to motor networks. There were three aims of this study: (1) to characterize excitatory axonal contacts on interneurons; (2) to determine if contact patterns on excitatory and inhibitory interneurons are different; (3) to determine if there are differences in presynaptic inhibitory control of excitatory and inhibitory interneurons. We used intracellular labelling of electrophysiologically identified cells along with immunochemistry to characterise contacts formed by axons that contain vesicular glutamate transporters (VGLUT1 and VGLUT2) and contacts formed by VGLUT1 terminals which in turn were contacted by GABAergic terminals on cells that were characterised according to their transmitter phenotype. All 17 cells investigated were associated with numerous VGLUT1 contacts originating from primary afferents, and similar contact densities were found on excitatory and inhibitory cells, but VGLUT2-immunoreactive terminals originating from intraspinal neurons were less frequent, or were practically absent, especially on excitatory cells. Similar numbers of VGLUT1 contacts with associated GABAergic terminals were found on excitatory and inhibitory cells indicating a similar extent of presynaptic GABAergic control. However, scarce VGLUT2 terminals on intermediate zone excitatory premotor interneurons with input from muscle afferents suggest that they are not significantly excited by other spinal neurons but are under direct excitatory control of supraspinal neurons and, principally inhibitory, control of spinal neurons.
We examined the effect of light adaptation on the gap junctional coupling of -ganglion cells (-GCs) in rabbit and mouse retinas. We assayed changes in coupling by measuring parameters of tracer coupling following injection of -GCs with Neurobiotin and the concerted spike activity of -GC neighbours under dark- and light-adapted conditions. We found that light adaptation using mesopic or photopic background lights resulted in a dramatic increase in the labelling intensity, number, and spatial extent of ganglion and amacrine cells coupled to OFF -GCs when compared to levels seen under dark adaptation. While this augmentation of coupling by light did not produce an increase in the concerted spontaneous activity of OFF -GC neighbours, it did significantly increase correlated light-evoked spiking. This was seen as an increase in the number of correlated spikes for -GC neighbours and an extension of correlations to second-tier neighbours that was not seen under dark-adapted conditions. Pharmacological studies in the rabbit retina indicated that dopamine mediates the observed changes in coupling by differentially activating D1 and D2 receptors under different adaptation states. In this scheme, activation of dopamine D1 receptors following light exposure triggers cAMP-mediated intracellular pathways resulting in an increase in gap junctional conductance. Overall, our results indicate that as we move from night to day there is an enhanced electrical coupling between -GCs, thereby increasing the concerted activity believed to strengthen the capacity and efficiency of information flow across the optic nerve.
Episodes of hypoxia in utero present a potentially serious challenge to the fetus, but are counteracted by defence responses including marked redistribution of blood flow from peripheral circulations to the brain. Here, we report the novel observation that the oxidant tone is an important modulator of this cardiovascular defence. Using pregnant Welsh Mountain sheep surgically prepared for long-term recording, we investigated in vivo the effects on the fetal cardiovascular defence to acute hypoxaemia of fetal treatment with the antioxidant vitamin C. The mechanisms via which vitamin C may affect the vascular oxidant tone were investigated by monitoring fetal plasma concentrations of nitrates and nitrites, by determining changes in the activity of superoxide dismutase (SOD) in fetal plasma, and by investigating the effect of vitamin C treatment on the fetal cardiovascular defence to hypoxaemia following nitric oxide (NO) synthase blockade. Fetal treatment with vitamin C markedly depressed the normal femoral constrictor response to acute hypoxaemia in the fetus (5.2  1.0 vs. 1.1  0.3 mmHg (ml min(-1))(-1), mean  s.e.m.; P &lt; 0.05) an effect which was completely restored following NO synthase blockade (6.2  1.3 mmHg (ml min(-1))(-1)). Compared to saline infusion, fetal treatment with vitamin C during acute hypoxaemia also significantly increased fetal plasma SOD activity from normoxic baseline (-8.9  6.5 vs. 15.0  6.6% inhibition, P &lt; 0.05) and decreased the plasma concentration ratio of nitrate:nitrite from normoxic baseline (NO3(-):NO2(-); 0.15  0.30 vs. -0.29  0.11, P &lt; 0.05). The data provide in vivo evidence of redox modulation of redistribution of blood flow in the fetus, part of the fetal brain sparing during acute hypoxaemic stress.

This paper will first advocate for a better understanding of the links between the psyche and the body, and also for the development of interdisciplinary perspectives that connect psychoanalysis and neuroscience but still respect and preserve the specificities of each discipline. In addition, cross-talk involves recognizing the incompleteness of any single discipline and allowing ourselves to be enriched by the differences with others through a complementary approach rather than a totalitarian one. Then, we will try to understand why today we find ourselves at the advent of the &quot;all cerebral&quot; era. One can think that brain imaging is reassuring because it gives concrete visible results, which seemingly brings objectivity. The danger is to set this brain indicator apart and to accord it scientific validity to localize brain processes on its own, without taking the necessary epistemological and methodological precautions; this could readily evoke a new form of phrenology It seems more prudent, concerning brain-imaging results, to think in terms of bio-psycho-environmental interaction rather than linear causality. This will bring us to focus finally on subjectivity and the interests of taking subjectivity into account in our perception of behaviors that depends on relational dynamics, but also in our perception of the environment according to our emotions. Emotions play an important role in how we construct reality. They enable us to &quot;set&quot; events, like a fixing agent in the photo-development process. Furthermore, the experience of an emotion or of sufficiently strong sensations (the threshold differs across individuals) can also trigger the construction of false memories with a conviction that they have really been experienced. The reality of our emotions does not always match the reality of factual events. This is a case of total subjectivity in the construction of reality, and illustrates the need to situate the subject within a bio-psycho-environmental approach.
Based on our findings showing that female adolescents in resident group homes exhibit externalized disorders at the same rate as male adolescents, explanatory hypotheses are developed from neuroscience (genetics and endocrinology) and from psychoanalysis (psychopathological and environmental approach). In particular, the place of the psychoanalytic approach in improving our understanding of such results is discussed with regard first to the clinical context and then to the research context. This article underlines that both approaches in psychoanalysis and neuroscience can, and maybe have to/should, coexist in child psychiatry.
After years of reciprocal lack of interest, if not opposition, neuroscience and psychoanalysis are poised for a renewed dialogue. This article discusses some aspects of the Freudian metapsychology and its link with specific biological mechanisms. It highlights in particular how the physiological concept of homeostasis resonates with certain fundamental concepts of psychoanalysis. Similarly, the authors underline how the Freud and Damasio theories of brain functioning display remarkable complementarities, especially through their common reference to Meynert and James. Furthermore, the Freudian theory of drives is discussed in the light of current neurobiological evidences of neural plasticity and trace formation and of their relationships with the processes of homeostasis. The ensuing dynamics between traces and homeostasis opens novel avenues to consider inner life in reference to the establishment of fantasies unique to each subject. The lack of determinism, within a context of determinism, implied by plasticity and reconsolidation participates in the emergence of singularity, the creation of uniqueness and the unpredictable future of the subject. There is a gap in determinism inherent to biology itself. Uniqueness and discontinuity: this should today be the focus of the questions raised in neuroscience. Neuroscience needs to establish the new bases of a &quot;discontinuous&quot; biology. Psychoanalysis can offer to neuroscience the possibility to think of discontinuity. Neuroscience and psychoanalysis meet thus in an unexpected way with regard to discontinuity and this is a new point of convergence between them.
Developed by Bowlby in 1969, the concept of attachment led to significant breakthroughs in the exploration of subjective and intersubjective developmental processes. Defined as an innate behavioral system that enables an infant to regulate his closeness to his mother, attachment lies at the crossroads of psychoanalytical and cognitive neuroscientific theories. Standardized instruments for assessing the quality of attachment helped to validate the hypothesis that a variety of attachment patterns exist in mother-infant dyads and are underpinned by mental representations known as Internal Working Models. Research has also shown that most of these attachment patterns are transmitted by the mother to the infant. These results increased researchers' interest in the concept of transgenerational transmission of attachment patterns that might be considered as a stepping stone of transgenerational transmission. Starting with hypotheses on the transmission of attachment, this article underlines that despite conceptual differences between the psychoanalytical and the developmental theories, they agree on the major mediating role of behaviors (micro-behaviors in situations of interaction) in the transgenerational transmission of attachment. Relying on the concept of mirror neurons and on research revealing their role in the embodied cognition of one's own and others' intentions, this article leads to a hypothesis regarding the biological mechanisms that are likely to be involved in the transmission of attachment. A two-stage transformation (from the mind to the body of/in the mother, then from the body to the mind of the infant) is hypothesized to occur through the embodied neurological imitation of the mirror neuron system and to facilitate the transmission of the attachment pattern through the same mechanism involved in the transmission of other significant mentalized representations.
Inadequate umbilical blood flow leads to intrauterine growth restriction, a major killer in perinatal medicine today. Nitric oxide (NO) is important in the maintenance of umbilical blood flow, and antioxidants increase NO bioavailability. What remains unknown is whether antioxidants can increase umbilical blood flow. Melatonin participates in circadian, seasonal, and reproductive physiology, but has also been reported to act as a potent endogenous antioxidant. We tested the hypothesis that treatment during pregnancy with melatonin increases umbilical blood flow via NO-dependent mechanisms. This was tested in pregnant sheep by investigating in vivo the effects on continuous measurement of umbilical blood flow of melatonin before and after NO blockade with a NO clamp. These effects of melatonin were compared with those of the traditional antioxidant, vitamin C. Under anesthesia, 12 pregnant sheep and their fetuses (0.8 of gestation) were fitted with catheters and a Transonic probe around an umbilical artery, inside the fetal abdomen. Following 5 days of recovery, cardiovascular variables were recorded during fetal i.v. treatment with either melatonin (n=6, 0.50.1 g/kg/min) or vitamin C (n=6, 8.90.4 mg/kg/min) before and after fetal NO blockade with the NO clamp. Fetal treatment with melatonin or vitamin C increased umbilical blood flow, independent of changes in fetal arterial blood pressure. Fetal NO blockade prevented the increase in umbilical blood flow induced by melatonin or vitamin C. Antioxidant treatment could be a useful clinical tool to increase or maintain umbilical blood flow in complicated pregnancy.
Methamphetamine (METH) is a common drug of abuse that induces toxicity in the central nervous system and is connected to neurological disorders such as Parkinson's disease. METH neurotoxicity is induced by reactive oxygen species (ROS) production and apoptosis. Moreover, autophagy is an alternative to cell death and a means for eliminating dysfunctional organelles. In other cases, autophagy can end up in cell death. Nonetheless, it is not clear whether autophagy is also correlated with apoptotic signaling in drug-induced neurotoxicity. Therefore, we hypothesized that METH-generated toxicity associated with initiating the apoptotic signaling cascade can also increase the autophagic phenotype in neuronal cells. Using the SK-N-SH dopaminergic cell line as our model system, we found that METH-induced autophagy by inhibiting dissociation of Bcl-2/Beclin 1 complex and its upstream pathway that thereby led to cell death. We uncovered a novel function for the anti-apoptotic protein Bcl-2, as it played a role in negatively regulating autophagy by blocking an essential protein in the signaling pathway, Beclin 1. Furthermore, Bcl-2 was activated by c-Jun N-terminal kinase 1 (JNK 1), which is upstream of Bcl-2 phosphorylation, to induce Bcl-2/Beclin 1 dissociation. Furthermore, we demonstrated a novel role for melatonin in protecting cells from autophagic cell death triggered by the Bcl-2/Beclin 1 pathway by inhibiting the activation of the JNK 1, Bcl-2 upstream pathway. This study provides information regarding the link between apoptosis and autophagy signaling, which could lead to the development of therapeutic strategies that exploit the neurotoxicity of drugs of abuse.
Basal fractures of the middle phalanx are uncommon, but difficult to treat. We have reviewed our first 20 patients using the Suzuki pins and rubber traction who were treated during an 8.5 year period (June 1998-December 2006) and 18 who were reviewed after 49 (range 17-116) months. All injuries were closed fractures of the base of the middle phalanx. Ten patients had a fracture of the volar lip and dorsal subluxation of the phalanx, one had a fracture of the dorsal lip, and seven had comminuted pilon fractures. Median operating time was 33 (18-255) minutes. Thick &quot;vessel loops&quot; were often used for traction, and active movement before the traction was removed after 38 (8-46) days was disappointing. There were two superficial infections and one deep. One proximal interphalangeal (PIP) joint had been treated by arthrodesis and another amputated before review. On a visual analogue scale (VAS) from 0 (best) to 10 (worst), patients at review reported discomfort when wearing the traction as 5.5 (0-10), pain as 0 (0-6), and finger function as 3 (0-6). The median Quick-DASH score (100 = worst) was 2 (0-48) and grip strength 97 (75-118) % of the other hand. Median extension, flexion, and total range of movement of the PIP joint in 16 fingers were -9, 83, and 72, respectively. Our results are no more than adequate. They might have been better if the force of traction had been less by using rubber bands instead of vessel loops, if postoperative follow-up had been more frequent allowing for correction of traction when necessary, and if traction had been discontinued earlier.


Previous studies have demonstrated that rats subjected to single prolonged stress (SPS) exhibit posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD)-like symptoms, such as enhanced contextual fear in response to trauma-related and trauma-unrelated events. Furthermore, we previously reported that upregulation of hippocampal glycine transporter 1 (GlyT-1) mRNA after context exposure could be the initial mechanism underlying impaired fear extinction in SPS rats. To clarify the involvement of the hippocampal glycinergic system in impaired fear extinction in SPS rats, we measured the time course of changes in the duration of freezing and the hippocampal levels of Gly-T1 mRNA using contextual fear conditioning (FC) and extinction training. We also used in vivo microdialysis to measure the concentration of extracellular glycine in the hippocampus during the time interval between FC and the first context exposure. SPS rats exhibited increased and sustained contextual fear responses. The enhanced contextual fear response in SPS rats was associated with a sustained increase in hippocampal levels of Gly-T1 mRNA after FC relative to sham rats, and by a decrease in the extracellular glycine concentration. GlyT-1 mRNA levels in rats that underwent repeated extinction training were significantly lower than in rats that did not undergo extinction training. These findings indicate that reduced activity of the hippocampal glycinergic system could be closely involved in impaired fear extinction in SPS rats, suggesting that activation of the glycinergic system by d-cycloserine or GlyT-1 inhibitors may ameliorate the impairment of fear extinction.

The non-benzodiazepine GABA(A) receptor modulators ('Z-drugs') - zaleplon, zolpidem, zopiclone and eszopiclone - have become the accepted treatments for insomnia where they are available. However, recent randomized, placebo-controlled trials suggest that, for these drugs, there may be particular efficacy and tolerability profiles and distinct clinical outcomes in specific patient populations. This is particularly apparent when hypnotic/ selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor co-therapy is used to treat patients with co-morbid insomnia and psychiatric disorders, as patient recovery appears to be accelerated and enhanced by some drugs but not others. Emerging evidence of why this should be the case is that these hypnotic drugs may differ significantly from each other in their pharmacodynamic and pharmacokinetic profiles. Functional selectivity for specific GABA(A) receptor subtypes may determine each drug's clinical attributes, while the pharmacokinetic characteristics of Z-drugs also determine to a large extent how they perform in the clinic. For example, activity at GABA(A) alpha 1 receptor subtypes may be associated with sedative effects, whereas activity at alpha 2 and alpha 3 receptor subtypes may be associated with anxiolytic and antidepressant effects. In summary, the distinct clinical outcomes of zaleplon, zolpidem, zopiclone and eszopiclone may be explained by each drug's unique GABA(A) receptor subunit selectivity and pharmacokinetic profile. Further investigation of GABA( A) receptor subtype effects would help to increase understanding of current hypnotic drug effects, while knowledge of each drug's specific binding profile should enable clinicians to tailor treatment to individual patient's needs.
Dehydroepiandrosterone (DHEA) and its metabolites, DHEA-sulphate (DHEA-S) and androsterone, have neurosteroid activity. In this study, we examined whether DHEA, DHEA-S and androsterone, can influence serotonin (5-HT) neuronal firing activity via modulation of -aminobutryic acid (GABA(A)) receptors. The firing of presumed 5-HT neurones in a slice preparation containing rat dorsal raphe nucleus was inhibited by the GABA(A) receptor agonists 4,5,6,7-tetrahydroisoxazolo[5,4-c]pyridinyl-3-ol (THIP) (25 M) and GABA (100 M). DHEA (100 and 300 M) and DHEA-S (1, 10 and 100 M) caused a rapid and reversible attenuation of the response to THIP. DHEA (100 M) and DHEA-S (100 M) also attenuated the effect of GABA. Androsterone (10 and 30 M) markedly enhanced the inhibitory response to THIP (25 M). The effect was apparent during androsterone administration but persisted and even increased in magnitude after drug wash-out. The data indicate that GABA(A) receptor-mediated regulation of 5-HT neuronal firing is sensitive to negative modulation by DHEA and its metabolite DHEA-S is sensitive to positive modulation by the metabolite androsterone. The effects of these neurosteroids on GABA(A) receptor-mediated regulation of 5-HT firing may underlie some of the reported behavioural and psychological effects of endogenous and exogenous DHEA.

Wooden racket paddles were modified with rubber and carbon fibre laminates and their differences tested in terms of flexural, damping, and coefficient of restitution properties. Four rackets types were designed: a wood reference, wood with rubber, carbon fibre 0, and carbon fibre 90. Seven expert and eight intermediate tennis players tested the rackets. To determine which of the four rackets suited the players best, we asked the players to compare the rackets two by two. After each pair tested, participants had to fill out a 4-item questionnaire in which different aspects of the rackets' performance were judged. The most preferred racket was the 0 carbon fibre racket, followed by the 90 carbon fibre racket, the wood racket and, finally, the 1-mm rubber racket. Thus, rackets with the highest stiffness, least damping, and highest coefficient of restitution were the most preferred. Interestingly, although experts and intermediate players overall judged the rackets in very similar ways according to force, vibration, and control, they were sensitive to quite different physical characteristics of the rackets.
One-quarter of ischemic strokes occur during sleep, and affected patients are excluded from thrombolytic therapy because of an unknown time of stroke onset. It has been suggested that early ischemic changes detected on computed tomography (CT) are similar in patients with acute stroke and patients who recently awoke with stroke. We compared head CT scans using the Alberta Stroke Program Early CT Score (ASPECTS) in patients who were likely to suffer their stroke during sleep (awoke group) and a control group of patients with stroke of known onset time. Patients were recruited from a prospectively collected acute stroke database. The awoke group was defined as all ischemic stroke patients who were &quot;last seen normal&quot; more than 4 hours ago, arrived between 4 a.m. and 10 a.m., and underwent head CT within 15 hours of the time last seen normal. The control group was randomly selected from patients who underwent head CT within 4 hours of stroke onset. The ASPECTS evaluations were performed by investigators blinded to patient group and time of onset. A modified Rankin Scale (mRS) score was available in 15 awoke patients and 46 control patients at 90 days after stroke. Twenty-eight awoke patients and 68 control patients had suitable imaging for the ASPECTS. Baseline demographic characteristics and risk factors were similar in the 2 groups. The dichotomized ASPECTS analysis (7 vs 8-10) showed no significant differences between the groups. ASPECTS was 8-10 in 89.3% the awoke group and 95.6% in the control group (P=.353). There was a trend toward higher 90-day mRS score (0-1) in the awoke group versus controls (73% vs 45%; P=.079). Initial ASPECTS was similar in patients with wake-up stroke and those with 4 hours of symptoms. This suggests that a subset of wake-up stroke patients might be suitable for thrombolytic therapy.

Release probability (p(r)) is a fundamental presynaptic parameter which is critical in defining synaptic strength. Knowledge of how synapses set and regulate their p(r) is a fundamental step in understanding synaptic transmission and communication between neurons. Despite its importance, p(r) is difficult to measure directly at single synapses. One important strategy to achieve this has relied on the application of fluorescence-based imaging methods, but this is always limited by the lack of detailed information on the morphological and structural properties of the individual synapses under study, and thus precludes an investigation of the relationship between p(r) and synaptic anatomy. Here we outline a powerful methodology based on using FM-styryl dyes, photoconversion and correlative ultrastructural analysis in dissociated hippocampal cultured neurons, which provides both a direct readout of p(r) as well as nanoscale detail on synaptic organization and structure. We illustrate the value of this approach by investigating, at the level of individual reconstructed terminals, the relationship between release probability and defined vesicle pools. We show that in our population of synapses, p(r) is highly variable, and while it is positively correlated with the number of vesicles docked at the active zone it shows no relationship with the total number of synaptic vesicles. The lack of a direct correlation between total synaptic size and performance in these terminals suggests that factors other than the absolute magnitude of the synapse are the most important determinants of synaptic efficacy.


Under continuous lighting, moving stimuli such as ceiling fans and car wheels can sporadically appear to move in the reverse direction-this phenomenon is known as illusory motion reversal (IMR). We have previously suggested that IMR results from the spurious activation of motion detectors tuned for the opposite direction of motion, leading to a rivalry between two possible motion percepts. To determine if this hypothesis is supported by evidence from electrophysiology, we used EEG to directly compare neural signatures in IMR and binocular rivalry (BR), a well-studied form of rivalry. We find that both IMR and BR show large changes in power in the beta range (14-30 Hz) at the time of a perceptual switch. More importantly, during a stable perception, beta power correlates with the probability of a perception. Specifically, beta power associated with veridical motion perception (experienced the majority of the time) is higher than the power during illusory motion perception (experienced a minority of the time). The BR percepts, each 50% probable, are associated with an intermediate beta amplitude. We propose that the amplitude of synchronized beta activity reflects the size of currently active neural coalitions, with less likely percepts associated with smaller coalitions.

Despite improvements in diagnosis and treatment, ischaemic stroke in young adults remains a catastrophic event from the patients' perspective. Stroke can cause death, disability, and hamper quality of life. For the neurologist treating a young adult with suspected ischaemic stroke, the diagnostic challenge is to identify its cause. Contemporary neuroimaging of the brain and its vessels, and a comprehensive cardiac assessment, will enable identification of the most frequent causes of stroke in this age group: cardioembolism and arterial dissection. Specific diagnostic tests for the many other rare causes of ischaemic stroke in young adults (angiography, CSF examination, screening for vasculitis and thrombophilia, genetic testing, and ophthalmological examination) should be guided by suspected clinical findings or by the high prevalence of diseases associated with stroke in some countries.
A shared neuropathological feature of idiopathic Parkinson's disease, dementia with Lewy bodies, and multiple system atrophy is the development of intracellular aggregates of -synuclein that gradually engage increasing parts of the nervous system. The pathogenetic mechanisms underlying these neurodegenerative disorders, however, are unknown. Several studies have highlighted similarities between classic prion diseases and these neurological proteinopathies. Specifically, identification of Lewy bodies in fetal mesencephalic neurons transplanted in patients with Parkinson's disease raised the hypothesis that -synuclein, the main component of Lewy bodies, could be transmitted from the host brain to a graft of healthy neurons. These results and others have led to the hypothesis that a prion-like mechanism might underlie progression of synucleinopathy within the nervous system. We review experimental findings showing that misfolded -synuclein can transfer between cells and, once transferred into a new cell, can act as a seed that recruits endogenous -synuclein, leading to formation of larger aggregates. This model suggests that strategies aimed at prevention of cell-to-cell transfer of -synuclein could retard progression of symptoms in Parkinson's disease and other synucleinopathies.
Activation of the infralimbic region (IL) of the medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC) reduces conditioned fear in a variety of situations, and the IL is thought to play an important role in the extinction of conditioned fear. Here we report a series of experiments using contextual fear conditioning in which the IL is activated with the GABAa antagonist picrotoxin (Ptx) during a single extinction session in the fear context. We investigate the impact of this manipulation on subsequent extinction sessions in which Ptx is no longer present. First, we demonstrate that a single treatment with intra-IL Ptx administered in a conditioned fear context greatly accelerates the rate of extinction on the following days. Importantly, IL-Ptx also enhances extinction to a different fear context than the one in which IL-Ptx was administered. Thus, IL-Ptx primes extinction learning regardless of the fear context in which the IL was initially activated. Second, activation of the IL must occur in conjunction with a fear context in order to enhance extinction; the extinction enhancing effect is not observable if IL-Ptx is administered in a neutral context. Finally, this extinction enhancing effect is specific to the IL for it does not occur if Ptx is injected into the prelimbic region (PL) of the mPFC. The results indicate a novel persisting control of fear induced by activation of the IL and suggest that IL activation induces changes in extinction-related circuitry that prime extinction learning.
Individual vocal recognition behaviors in songbirds provide an excellent framework for the investigation of comparative psychological and neurobiological mechanisms that support the perception and cognition of complex acoustic communication signals. To this end, the complex songs of European starlings have been studied extensively. Yet, several basic parameters of starling individual vocal recognition have not been assessed. Here we investigate the temporal extent of song information acquired by starlings during vocal recognition learning. We trained two groups of starlings using standard operant conditioning techniques to recognize several songs from two conspecific male singers. In the first experiment we tested their ability to maintain accurate recognition when presented with (1) random sequences of 1-12 motifs (stereotyped song components) drawn from the training songs, and (2) 0.1 - 12-s excerpts of continuous song drawn from the training songs. We found that song recognition improved monotonically as more vocal material is provided. In the second experiment, we systematically substituted continuous, varying length regions of white noise for portions of the training songs and again examined recognition accuracy. Recognition remained above chance levels for all noise substitutions tested (up to 91% of the training stimulus) although all but the smallest substitutions led to some decrement in song recognition. Overall, above chance recognition could be obtained with surprisingly few motifs, short excerpts of song, and in the absence of large portions of the training songs. These results suggest that starlings acquire a representation of song during individual vocal recognition learning that is robust to perturbations and distributed broadly over large portions of these complex acoustic sequences.
Migraine disorders are more prevalent among women than men. The ovarian neurosteroids play an important role in this sex difference by modulating neurotransmitter systems involving migraine pathogenesis. During perimenopause, unlike the postmenopausal period, women are under unstable fluctuations of ovarian neurosteroid levels. Such fluctuations might be an important interval-specific trigger for activating migraines. Along with migraine headache, dizziness is one of the most common complaints of perimenopause. A significant portion of this dizziness may be caused by vestibular migraine that has heterogeneous clinical features with dizziness and/or migraine headache. Because of this variation in phenomenology, the symptom of dizziness and vertigo during perimenopause is frequently misclassified as being a nonspecific climacteric symptom or having psychological origin. The recognition of vestibular migraine and its heterogeneous clinical presentations are important to understand, differentiate and correctly diagnose the symptom of dizziness and vertigo during perimenopausal transition. Further, recognition of the steroid influences on migraine genesis will lead to improved treatment regimens for vertigo from migraine.

Hepatic glycogen is formed by direct and indirect pathways whose activities reflect altered nutrition or disease. Direct/indirect pathway measurements often involve test meals where  10% of carbohydrate is galactose, but its effects on direct/indirect pathway estimates are unknown. Therefore, direct/indirect pathway contributions in 24-h fasted rats given 2g/kg 100% glucose (GLU, n=6) or 90% glucose-10% galactose (GLU+GAL, n=6) were measured by [U-(13)C]glucose dilution and by position-5/position-2 glycogen enrichment (H5/H2) from 2H(2)O. For GLU+GAL, galactose glycogenesis was independently measured with [1-(13)C]galactose. Glycogenesis was equivalent in both groups but for GLU+GAL, 23  4% of glycogen was derived from galactose. [U-(13)C]glucose reported a 30  3% direct pathway contribution to glycogenesis for GLU but only 20  3% for GLU+GAL (p=0.012 vs. GLU). H5/H2 yielded identical direct pathway estimates (32  3% GLU, 29  6% GLU+GAL). Thus, galactose glycogenesis was undetected by H5/H2 while [U-(13)C]glucose reported a reduced direct/indirect pathway ratio. With [1-(13)C]galactose also present, correct glycogenic source contributions were obtained.
Neuroscience and psychology have recently turned their attention to the study of the subpersonal underpinnings of moral judgment. In this article we critically examine an influential strand of research originating in Greene's neuroimaging studies of 'utilitarian' and 'non-utilitarian' moral judgement. We argue that given that the explananda of this research are specific personal-level states-moral judgments with certain propositional contents-its methodology has to be sensitive to criteria for ascribing states with such contents to subjects. We argue that current research has often failed to meet this constraint by failing to correctly 'fix' key aspects of moral judgment, criticism we support by detailed examples from the scientific literature.
Cancer is an ever-increasing problem that is yet to be harnessed. Frequent mutations make this pathology very variable and, consequently, a considerable challenge. Intriguingly, mitochondria have recently emerged as novel targets for cancer therapy. A group of agents with anti-cancer activity that induce apoptosis by way of mitochondrial destabilisation, termed mitocans, have been a recent focus of research. Of these compounds, many are hydrophobic agents that associate with various sub-cellular organelles. Clearly, modification of such structures with mitochondria-targeting moieties, for example tagging them with lipophilic cations, would be expected to enhance their activity. This may be accomplished by the addition of triphenylphosphonium groups that direct such compounds to mitochondria, enhancing their activity. In this paper, we will review agents that possess anti-cancer activity by way of destabilizing mitochondria and their possible targets. We propose that mitochondrial targeting, in particular where the agent associates directly with the target, results in more specific and efficient anti-cancer drugs of potential high clinical relevance.
Increasing evidence has implicated megalin, a low-density lipoprotein receptor-related protein, in the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease (AD). In the brain, megalin is expressed in brain capillaries, ependymal cells and choroid plexus, where it participates in the clearance of brain amyloid -peptide (A) complex. Recently, megalin has also been detected in oligodendrocytes and astrocytes. In this study we demonstrate that megalin is widely distributed in neurons throughout the brain. Additionally, given that FE65 mediates the interaction between the low density lipoprotein receptor-related protein-1 and the amyloid precursor protein (APP) to modulate the rate of APP internalization from the cell surface, we hypothesize that megalin could also interact with APP in neurons. Our results confirm that megalin interacts with APP and FE65, suggesting that these three proteins form a tripartite complex. Moreover, our findings imply that megalin may participate in neurite branching. Taken together, these results indicate that megalin has an important role in A-mediated neurotoxicity, and therefore may be involved in the neurodegenerative processes that occur in AD.
Fine regulation of the innate immune response following brain injury or infection is important to avoid excessive activation of microglia and its detrimental consequences on neural cell viability and function. To get insights on the molecular networks regulating microglia activation, we analyzed expression, regulation and functional relevance of tumor necrosis factor receptors (TNFR) 2 in cultured mouse microglia. We found that microglia upregulate TNFR2 mRNA and protein and shed large amounts of soluble TNFR2, but not TNFR1, in response to pro-inflammatory stimuli and through activation of TNFR2 itself. By microarray analysis, we demonstrate that TNFR2 stimulation in microglia regulates expression of genes involved in immune processes, including molecules with anti-inflammatory and neuroprotective function like granulocyte colony-stimulating factor, adrenomedullin and IL-10. In addition, we identify IFN- as a regulator of the balance between pro- and anti-inflammatory/neuroprotective factors induced by TNFR2 stimulation. These data indicate that, through TNFR2, microglia may contribute to the counter-regulatory response activated in neuropathological conditions.
The Carcinogenicity Reliability Database (CRDB) was constructed by collecting experimental carcinogenicity data on about 1,500 chemicals from six sources, including IARC, and NTP databases, and then by ranking their reliabilities into six unified categories. A wide variety of 911 organic chemicals were selected from the database for QSAR modeling, and 1,504 kinds of different molecular descriptors were calculated, based on their 3D molecular structures as modeled by the Dragon software. Positive (carcinogenic) and negative (non-carcinogenic) chemicals containing various substructures were counted using atom and functional group count descriptors, and the statistical significance of ratios of positives to negatives was tested for those substructures. Very few were judged to be strongly related to carcinogenicity, among substructures known to be responsible for carcinogens as revealed from biomedical studies. In order to develop QSAR models for the prediction of the carcinogenicities of a wide variety of chemicals with a satisfactory performance level, the relationship between the carcinogenicity data with improved reliability and a subset of significant descriptors selected from 1,504 Dragon descriptors was analyzed with a support vector machine (SVM) method: the classification function (SVC) for weighted data in LIBSVM program was used to classify chemicals into two carcinogenic categories (positive or negative), where weights were set depending on the reliabilities of the carcinogenicity data. The quality and stability of the models presented were tested by performing a dual cross-validation procedure. A single SVM model as the first step was developed for all the 911 chemicals using 250 selected descriptors, achieving an overall accuracy level, i.e., positive and negative correct estimate, of about 70%. In order to improve the accuracy of the final model, the 911 chemicals were classified into 20 mutually overlapping subgroups according to contained substructures, a specific SVM model was optimized for each subgroup, and the predicted carcinogenicities of the 911 chemicals were determined by the majorities of the outputs of the corresponding SVM models. The model developed on the basis of grouping of chemicals into 20 substructures predicts the carcinogenicities of a wide variety of chemicals with a satisfactory overall accuracy of approximately 80%.
Morphine is one of the analgesics used most to treat chronic pain, although its long-term administration produces tolerance and dependence through neuronal plasticity. The ability of morphine to regulate neuron differentiation in vivo has been reported. However, the detailed mechanisms have not yet been elucidated because of the inability to separate maternal influences from embryonic events. Using zebrafish embryos as the model, we demonstrate that morphine decreases miR-133b expression, hence increasing the expression of its target, Pitx3, a transcription factor that activates tyrosine hydroxylase and dopamine transporter. Using a specific morpholino to knock down the zebrafish -opioid receptor (zfMOR) in the embryos and selective mitogen-activated protein kinase inhibitors, we demonstrate that the morphine-induced miR-133b decrease in zebrafish embryos is mediated by zfMOR activation of extracellular signal-regulated kinase 1/2. A parallel morphine-induced down-regulation of miR-133b was observed in the immature but not in mature rat hippocampal neurons. Our results indicate for the first time that zebrafish embryos express a functional -opioid receptor and that zebrafish serves as an excellent model to investigate the roles of microRNA in neuronal development affected by long-term morphine exposure.
Neuropeptide S (NPS) is a recently discovered G protein-coupled receptor ligand that modulates fear-like behaviors in rodents. A frequent A&gt;T single-nucleotide polymorphism in the human NPS receptor gene NPSR1 confers a 10-fold higher efficacy of NPS signaling in vitro and has been linked with panic disorder (PD). We here report data from a classical fear-conditioning paradigm in healthy normal volunteers, in which carriers of the NPSR1 T allele evaluated their fear reactions to conditioned stimuli (CSs) as more pronounced than AA homozygous participants, although they did not show elevated peripheral-physiological conditioned responses (skin conductance responses-SCRs). T carriers also exhibited stronger CS-evoked brain activity in the rostral dorsomedial prefrontal cortex (dmPFC), an area that supports the explicit, conscious appraisal of threat stimuli. By contrast, more caudally situated mid-dmPFC, which has previously been associated with the generation of SCRs, showed no elevated response. Moreover, rostral dmPFC activation was correlated with participants' fear evaluations, further strengthening the link of this activation to increased individual fear appraisal. Our data suggest a genetic and neuroanatomical substrate for catastrophizing overinterpretations of fear reactions and provide a mechanistic explanation for the association between the NPSR1 T allele and PD.
Although common sense suggests that environmental influences increasingly account for individual differences in behavior as experiences accumulate during the course of life, this hypothesis has not previously been tested, in part because of the large sample sizes needed for an adequately powered analysis. Here we show for general cognitive ability that, to the contrary, genetic influence increases with age. The heritability of general cognitive ability increases significantly and linearly from 41% in childhood (9 years) to 55% in adolescence (12 years) and to 66% in young adulthood (17 years) in a sample of 11000 pairs of twins from four countries, a larger sample than all previous studies combined. In addition to its far-reaching implications for neuroscience and molecular genetics, this finding suggests new ways of thinking about the interface between nature and nurture during the school years. Why, despite life's 'slings and arrows of outrageous fortune', do genetically driven differences increasingly account for differences in general cognitive ability? We suggest that the answer lies with genotype-environment correlation: as children grow up, they increasingly select, modify and even create their own experiences in part based on their genetic propensities.
A promising therapeutic approach for Duchenne muscular dystrophy (DMD) is exon skipping using antisense oligonucleotides (AOs). In-frame deletions of the hinge 3 region of the dystrophin protein, which is encoded by exons 50 and 51, are predicted to cause a variety of phenotypes. Here, we performed functional analyses of muscle in the exon 52-deleted mdx (mdx52) mouse, to predict the function of in-frame dystrophin following exon 51-skipping, which leads to a protein lacking most of hinge 3. A series of AOs based on phosphorodiamidate morpholino oligomers was screened by intramuscular injection into mdx52 mice. The highest splicing efficiency was generated by a two-oligonucleotide cocktail targeting both the 5' and 3' splice sites of exon 51. After a dose-escalation study, we systemically delivered this cocktail into mdx52 mice seven times at weekly intervals. This induced 20-30% of wild-type (WT) dystrophin expression levels in all muscles, and was accompanied by amelioration of the dystrophic pathology and improvement of skeletal muscle function. Because the structure of the restored in-frame dystrophin resembles human dystrophin following exon 51-skipping, our results are encouraging for the ongoing clinical trials for DMD. Moreover, the therapeutic dose required can provide a suggestion of the theoretical equivalent dose for humans.
Familial amyloid polyneuropathy (FAP) is a progressive neuropathy with autonomic dysfunction. Domino liver transplantation (DLT), in which the liver of an FAP patient is transplanted into another patient, is routinely applied to compensate for the shortage of available organs. We report a patient who developed a clinical picture of FAP 9 years after a DLT from an FAP donor. Electrophysiological, neuropathological, and autonomic tests were administered. The patient presented with typical clinical features of FAP. Electrophysiological investigation confirmed a moderate sensorimotor axonal and autonomic neuropathy. Sural nerve biopsy confirmed the presence of amyloid deposits in the endoneurium. Skin biopsy at the ankle showed reduced intraepidermal nerve fiber density. Our report shows that FAP can develop in a recipient of an FAP liver. This suggests that careful longitudinal study is required to evaluate the risk of FAP polyneuropathy in patients who undergo domino liver transplantation.
S-nitrosylation of proteins by nitric oxide is a major mode of signalling in cells. S-nitrosylation can mediate the regulation of a range of proteins, including prominent nuclear proteins, such as HDAC2 (ref. 2) and PARP1 (ref. 3). The high reactivity of the nitric oxide group with protein thiols, but the selective nature of nitrosylation within the cell, implies the existence of targeting mechanisms. Specificity of nitric oxide signalling is often achieved by the binding of nitric oxide synthase (NOS) to target proteins, either directly or through scaffolding proteins such as PSD-95 (ref. 5) and CAPON. As the three principal isoforms of NOS--neuronal NOS (nNOS), endothelial NOS (eNOS) and inducible NOS (iNOS)--are primarily non-nuclear, the mechanisms by which nuclear proteins are selectively nitrosylated have been elusive. Glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase (GAPDH) is physiologically nitrosylated at its Cys 150 residue. Nitrosylated GAPDH (SNO-GAPDH) binds to Siah1, which possesses a nuclear localization signal, and is transported to the nucleus. Here, we show that SNO-GAPDH physiologically transnitrosylates nuclear proteins, including the deacetylating enzyme sirtuin-1 (SIRT1), histone deacetylase-2 (HDAC2) and DNA-activated protein kinase (DNA-PK). Our findings reveal a novel mechanism for targeted nitrosylation of nuclear proteins and suggest that protein-protein transfer of nitric oxide groups may be a general mechanism in cellular signal transduction.
Unlike mammals, teleost fish mount a robust regenerative response to retinal injury that culminates in restoration of visual function. This regenerative response relies on dedifferentiation of Mller glia into a cycling population of progenitor cells. However, the mechanism underlying this dedifferentiation is unknown. Here, we report that genes encoding pluripotency factors are induced following retinal injury. Interestingly, the proneural transcription factor, Ascl1a, and the pluripotency factor, Lin-28, are induced in Mller glia within 6 h following retinal injury and are necessary for Mller glia dedifferentiation. We demonstrate that Ascl1a is necessary for lin-28 expression and that Lin-28 suppresses let-7 microRNA (miRNA) expression. Furthermore, we demonstrate that let-7 represses expression of regeneration-associated genes such as, ascl1a, hspd1, lin-28, oct4, pax6b and c-myc. hspd1, oct4 and c-myc(a) exhibit basal expression in the uninjured retina and let-7 may inhibit this expression to prevent premature Mller glia dedifferentiation. The opposing actions of Lin-28 and let-7 miRNAs on Mller glia differentiation and dedifferentiation are similar to that of embryonic stem cells and suggest novel targets for stimulating Mller glia dedifferentiation and retinal regeneration in mammals.
Biomarkers may be of great value in Alzheimer's disease drug development to select the most optimal drug candidates for large and expensive phase 3 clinical trials. Biomarkers will also be important to provide evidence that a drug affects the underlying pathophysiology of the disease, which, together with a beneficial effect on the clinical course, will be essential for labeling the drug as having a disease-modifying effect.
Immune cells and glia interact with neurons to alter pain sensitivity and to mediate the transition from acute to chronic pain. In response to injury, resident immune cells are activated and blood-borne immune cells are recruited to the site of injury. Immune cells not only contribute to immune protection but also initiate the sensitization of peripheral nociceptors. Through the synthesis and release of inflammatory mediators and interactions with neurotransmitters and their receptors, the immune cells, glia and neurons form an integrated network that coordinates immune responses and modulates the excitability of pain pathways. The immune system also reduces sensitization by producing immune-derived analgesic and anti-inflammatory or proresolution agents. A greater understanding of the role of the immune system in pain processing and modulation reveals potential targets for analgesic drug development and new therapeutic opportunities for managing chronic pain.
The development and function of neurons require the regulated expression of large numbers of very specific gene sets. Epigenetic modifications of both DNA and histone proteins are now emerging as fundamental mechanisms by which neurons adapt their transcriptional response to developmental and environmental cues. In the nervous system, the mechanisms by which extracellular signals regulate the activity of chromatin-modifying enzymes have just begun to be characterized. In this Review, I discuss how extracellular cues, including synaptic activity and neurotrophic factors, influence epigenetic modifications and regulate the neuronal transcriptional response. I also summarize additional mechanisms that induce chromatin remodeling events by combinatorial assembly of multiprotein complexes on neuronal gene promoters.
Spatial navigation is often used as a behavioral task in studies of the neuronal circuits that underlie cognition, learning and memory in rodents. The combination of in vivo microscopy with genetically encoded indicators has provided an important new tool for studying neuronal circuits, but has been technically difficult to apply during navigation. Here we describe methods for imaging the activity of neurons in the CA1 region of the hippocampus with subcellular resolution in behaving mice. Neurons that expressed the genetically encoded calcium indicator GCaMP3 were imaged through a chronic hippocampal window. Head-restrained mice performed spatial behaviors in a setup combining a virtual reality system and a custom-built two-photon microscope. We optically identified populations of place cells and determined the correlation between the location of their place fields in the virtual environment and their anatomical location in the local circuit. The combination of virtual reality and high-resolution functional imaging should allow a new generation of studies to investigate neuronal circuit dynamics during behavior.
Several behavioral assays are currently used for high-throughput neurophenotyping and screening of genetic mutations and psychotropic drugs in zebrafish (Danio rerio). In this protocol, we describe a battery of two assays to characterize anxiety-related behavioral and endocrine phenotypes in adult zebrafish. Here, we detail how to use the 'novel tank' test to assess behavioral indices of anxiety (including reduced exploration, increased freezing behavior and erratic movement), which are quantifiable using manual registration and computer-aided video-tracking analyses. In addition, we describe how to analyze whole-body zebrafish cortisol concentrations that correspond to their behavior in the novel tank test. This protocol is an easy, inexpensive and effective alternative to other methods of measuring stress responses in zebrafish, thus enabling the rapid acquisition and analysis of large amounts of data. As will be shown here, fish anxiety-like behavior can be either attenuated or exaggerated depending on stress or drug exposure, with cortisol levels generally expected to parallel anxiety behaviors. This protocol can be completed over the course of 2 d, with a variable testing duration depending on the number of fish used.
A large proportion of human social neuroscience research has focused on the issue of decision-making. Impaired decision-making is a symptomatic feature of a number of neurodegenerative diseases, but the nature of these decision-making deficits depends on the particular disease. Thus, examining the qualitative differences in decision-making impairments associated with different neurodegenerative diseases could provide valuable information regarding the underlying neural basis of decision-making. Nevertheless, few comparative reports of decision-making across patient groups exist. In this Review, we examine the neuroanatomical substrates of decision-making in relation to the neuropathological changes that occur in Alzheimer disease, frontotemporal dementia, Parkinson disease and Huntington disease. We then examine the main findings from studies of decision-making in these neurodegenerative diseases. Finally, we suggest a number of recommendations that future studies could adopt to aid our understanding of decision-making cognition.
Recent studies have deepened our understanding of multiple mechanisms by which extracellular matrix (ECM) molecules regulate various aspects of synaptic plasticity and have strengthened a link between the ECM and learning and memory. New findings also support the view that the ECM is important for homeostatic processes, such as scaling of synaptic responses, metaplasticity and stabilization of synaptic connectivity. Activity-dependent modification of the ECM affects the formation of dendritic filopodia and the growth of dendritic spines. Thus, the ECM has a dual role as a promoter of structural and functional plasticity and as a degradable stabilizer of neural microcircuits. Both of these aspects are likely to be important for mental health.
Progressive loss of the ascending dopaminergic projection in the basal ganglia is a fundamental pathological feature of Parkinson's disease. Studies in animals and humans have identified spatially segregated functional territories in the basal ganglia for the control of goal-directed and habitual actions. In patients with Parkinson's disease the loss of dopamine is predominantly in the posterior putamen, a region of the basal ganglia associated with the control of habitual behaviour. These patients may therefore be forced into a progressive reliance on the goal-directed mode of action control that is mediated by comparatively preserved processing in the rostromedial striatum. Thus, many of their behavioural difficulties may reflect a loss of normal automatic control owing to distorting output signals from habitual control circuits, which impede the expression of goal-directed action.
Physical activity preserves cognition in the aging brain, but the mechanisms remain obscure. In order to identify candidate genes and pathways responsible for the preservation of cognitive function by exercise, we trained mice that had been exposed to lifelong running or sedentary lifestyle for 16 months in the hippocampus-dependent water maze. After water maze training, we analyzed the expression of 24,000 genes in the hippocampus using Illumina bead microarray. Runners show greater activation of genes associated with synaptic plasticity and mitochondrial function, and also exhibit significant downregulation of genes associated with oxidative stress and lipid metabolism. Running also modified the effects of learning on the expression of genes involved in cell excitability, energy metabolism, and insulin, MAP kinase and Wnt signaling. These results suggest that the enhancement of cognitive function by lifelong exercise is associated with an altered transcriptional profile following learning.
Adenosine A(2A) receptor (A(2A)R) antagonists are being investigated as promising treatment strategy for Parkinson's disease (PD). To test whether A(2A)R antagonists are beneficial in early PD stages we used MitoPark mice, a genetic model with gradual degeneration of DA cells. Daily treatment of young MitoPark mice for eight weeks with the A(2A)R antagonist MSX-3 prevented the reduction of spontaneous locomotor activity observed in saline or L-DOPA treated animals. Chronic A(2A)R antagonist treatment neither induced desensitization of receptors nor accumulation of the drug in brain tissue. Despite beneficial effects on behavior, which are not improved upon addition of a low dose of L-DOPA, the characteristic decline of dopamine levels was not changed. Our results indicate that effective dosing with A(2A)R antagonists should be tested as monotherapy in early PD, and serves to remind us that positive behavioral effects of such treatment need not be reflected in rescue of striatal dopamine levels.
Mesenchymal stem cells have been proven to be potentially effective in the treatment of a large variety of diseases, including neurodegenerative disorders. Of these, cerebellar ataxia is a group of disorders characterized by the degeneration of the cerebellum, particularly the Purkinje cells, responsible for motor coordination and control of the motor functions. To analyze the possibility of using bone marrow-derived mesenchymal stem cells in treating ataxia, we transplanted these cells in the cerebellum of newborn Lurcher mutant mice, a very aggressive mouse model characterized by the selective early post-natal death of Purkinje cells in the cerebellum. Two months after the surgical procedure, the treated mice presented significant improvements in the motor behavior tests performed. Histological analysis of the cerebellum indicated that the donor cells had migrated throughout the cerebellum, as well as a significant increase in the number of Purkinje cells. Many grafted stem cells were located adjacent to the Purkinje cell layer, and expressed BDNF, NT-3 or GDNF, neurotrophic factors implicated in Purkinje cell survival. Also, a small percentage of the grafted stem cells had fused with Purkinje cells. Thus, we have shown that mesenchymal stem cells are capable of integrating into the central nervous system, migrate towards the areas where neurodegenerative processes are occurring, and rescue the degenerating cells through cell trophic effects. This is an adequate and feasible model that could be translated into a therapeutic approach for clinical assays in neurodegenerative diseases.
A rodent model of diencephalic amnesia produced by thiamine deficiency (pyrithiamine-induced thiamine deficiency [PTD]) was implemented to assess both changes in behavior and acetylcholine (ACh) efflux in the amygdala across four training sessions of a delayed alternation task. Two versions of the delayed alternation task were used. In one version, when a correct alternation was made a unique reward was paired with each spatial location ([left arm-chocolate milk] or [right arm-rat chow]). This paradigm is called the differential outcomes procedure (DOP). In the second version of the task, correct delayed alternation resulted in the same rewards but randomized across location (Nondifferential Outcomes Procedure [NOP]). The PTD rats were impaired on the first session of delayed alternation testing. However, both control and PTD rats using the DOP performed significantly better on delayed alternation than rats trained with the NOP.This effect was driven primarily by the PTD rats in the DOP condition outperforming all other groups on sessions 2-4. Although ACh efflux in the amygdala increased during delayed alternation testing in all groups, the NOP-trained rats had a greater rise in training-related ACh release in the post-training period. This suggests that increased amygdalar cholinergic activation is more critical for processing spatial information than episodic reward information. These data correspond with the idea that cholinergic activation of the amygdala promotes processing in other neural systems.
Corticosteroid hormones are thought to promote optimal behavioral adaptation under fearful conditions, primarily via glucocorticoid receptors (GRs). Here, we examined - using pharmacological and genetic approaches in mice - if mineralocorticoid receptors (MRs) also play a role in fearful memory formation. As expected, administration of the GR-antagonist RU38486 prior to training in a fear conditioning paradigm impaired contextual memory when tested 24 (but not when tested 3) h after training. Tone-cue memory was enhanced by RU38486 when tested at 4 (but not 25) h after training. Interestingly, pre (but not post)-training administration of MR antagonist spironolactone impaired contextual memory, both at 3 and 24h after training. Similar effects were also found in forebrain-specific MR knockout mice. Spironolactone also impaired tone-cue memory, but only at 4h after training. These results reveal that - in addition to GRs - MRs also play a critical role in establishing fear memories, particularly in the early phase of memory formation.
Converging evidence examining the effects of post-training manipulations of the hippocampus suggests that the hippocampus may play a time-limited role in the maintenance of a variety of forms of memory. In particular, either lesions or inactivation of the dorsal hippocampus results in many cases in a time-limited retrograde impairment in nondiscriminative contextual conditioning paradigms. However, the extent to which hippocampal manipulations result in a time-limited retrograde amnesia for a variety of forms of learning has recently been called into question (reviewed in Sutherland, Sparks, &amp; Lehmann (2010)). The present study examined the effect of inactivation of the dorsal hippocampus either 7, 28, or 42 days following training in an explicitly nonspatial, discriminative contextual conditioning paradigm (Otto &amp; Poon, 2006; Parsons &amp; Otto, 2008). Inactivation of the dorsal hippocampus resulted in a significant deficit in the expression of contextual conditioning at 7 and 28 days, but not 42 days, following training. Importantly, inactivation of the hippocampus did not affect either baseline freezing levels or conditioning to an explicit CS. Together with previous data exploring hippocampal contributions to discriminative unimodal contextual conditioning, these data suggest that the hippocampus may play a particularly prominent role in the temporary maintenance of memory in discriminative contextual paradigms.
Executive functions such as set-shifting and maintenance are cognitive processes that rely on complex neurodevelopmental processes. Although neurodevelopmental processes are mainly studied in animal models and in neuropsychiatric disorders, the underlying genetic basis for these processes under physiological conditions is poorly understood. We aimed to investigate the association between genetic variants of the Reelin (RELN) gene and cognitive set-shifting in healthy young individuals. The relationship between 12 selected single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) of the RELN gene and cognitive set-shifting as measured by perseverative errors using the modified card sorting test (MCST) was analysed in a sample of N=98 young healthy individuals (mean age in years: 22.7  0.19). Results show that in individual MANCOVA analyses two of five significant SNPs (rs2711870: F(2,39)=7.14; p=0.0019; rs2249372: F(2,39)=6.97; p=0.002) withstood Bonferroni correction for multiple testing (corrected p-value: p=0.004). While haplotype analyses of the RELN gene showed significant associations between three haplotypes and perseverative error processing in various models of inheritance (adjusted for age, gender, BDI, MWTB IQ), the GCT haplotype showed the most robust finding with a recessive model of inheritance (p=2.32  10(-5)) involving the functional SNP rs362691 (Leu-Val amino acid change). Although our study strongly suggests the involvement of the RELN gene in cognitive set-shifting and maintenance, our study requires further exploration as well as replication of the findings in larger samples of healthy individuals and in clinical samples with neuropsychiatric disorders.

Behavioral and neurochemical effects of chronic administration of high doses of 2-phenylethylamine (PEA; 25-75 mg/kg, i.p. for up to 7 days) have been investigated in Balb/c mice. Depression and anxiety, as demonstrated respectively by increased floating time in forced swim test, and reduction in number of entries and the time spent in the open arms in an elevated plus maze were observed in these animals. General motor disabilities in terms of akinesia, catalepsy and decreased swimming ability were also observed in these animals. Acute and sub-acute administration of PEA caused significant, dose-dependent depletion of striatal dopamine, and its metabolites levels. PEA caused dose-dependent generation of hydroxyl radicals in vitro in Fenton's reaction in test tubes, in isolated mitochondrial fraction, and in vivo in the striatum of mice. A significant inhibition of NADH-ubiquinone oxidoreductase (complex-I; EC: 1.6.5.3) activity suggests the inhibition in oxidative phosphorylation in the mitochondria resulting in hydroxyl radical generation. Nissl staining and TH immnunohistochemistry in brain sections failed to show any morphological aberrations in dopaminergic neurons or nerve terminals. Long-term over-consumption of PEA containing food items could be a neurological risk factor having significant pathological relevance to disease conditions such as depression or motor dysfunction. However, per-oral administration of higher doses of PEA (75-125 mg/kg; 7 days) failed to cause such overt neurochemical effects in rats, which suggested safe consumption of food items rich in this trace amine by normal population.
Microglia are the major glial cells responsible for immune responses against harmful substances in the central nervous system. Type I phosphatidylinositol 4-phosphate 5-kinase alpha (PIP5Kalpha) and its lipid product, phosphatidylinositol 4,5-bisphosphate (PI[4,5]P(2)), regulate important cell surface functions. Here, we report that lipopolysaccharide (LPS) significantly enhanced PIP5Kalpha mRNA and protein expression levels in a time- and concentration-dependent manner in microglia. Furthermore, LPS stimulation led to a robust increase in PI(4,5)P(2) in the plasma membrane, demonstrated by PI(4,5)P(2) immunostaining or PI(4,5)P(2) imaging using a PI(4,5)P(2)-specific probe, tubby (R332H), fused to yellow fluorescent protein. Phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase, p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK), p42/44 MAPK, and c-Jun N-terminal kinase signaling pathway inhibitors clearly reduced PIP5Kalpha expression, indicating that these pathways are necessary for LPS-induced PIP5Kalpha expression. In addition, inhibition of nuclear factor-kappaB and Sp1 transcription factors interfered with the LPS-induced upregulation of PIP5Kalpha. Delivery of PI(4,5)P(2) into microglia increased the expression of interleukin-1beta and tumor necrosis factor alpha. These findings indicate that PIP5Kalpha upregulation and the subsequent rise in PI(4,5)P(2) in LPS-stimulated microglia may positively regulate microglial inflammatory responses.
Rasagiline is a propargylamine and irreversible monoamine oxidase (MAO) B inhibitor used for the treatment of Parkinson's disease (PD). It has demonstrated neuroprotective properties in laboratory studies. Current concepts of PD aetiopathogenesis include the role of alpha-synuclein, protein aggregation, free radical metabolism and mitochondrial dysfunction in contributing to cell death. We have used a combination of alpha-synuclein and free radical mediated toxicity in a dopaminergic cell line to provide a model of nigral toxicity in order to investigate the potential molecular mechanisms that mediate rasagiline protection. We demonstrate that rasagiline protects against cell death induced by the combination of free radicals generated by paraquat and either wild-type or A53T mutant alpha-synuclein over-expression. This protection was associated with a reduction in caspase 3 activation, a reduction in superoxide generation and a trend to ameliorate the fall in mitochondrial membrane potential. Rasagiline induced an increase in cellular glutathione levels. The results support a role for rasagiline in protecting dopaminergic cells against free radical mediated damage and apoptosis in the presence of alpha-synuclein over-expression. The data are of relevance to the interpretation of the potential mechanisms of action of rasagiline in explaining the results of disease modification trials in PD.
Hepatic encephalopathy (HE) is a complex neuropsychiatric syndrome which develops as a result of liver failure or disease. Increased concentrations of brain lactate (microdialysate, cerebrospinal fluid, tissue) are commonly measured in patients with HE induced by either acute or chronic liver failure. Whether an increase in brain lactate is a cause or a consequence of HE remains undetermined. A rise in cerebral lactate may occur due to (1) blood-borne lactate (hyperlactataemia) crossing the blood-brain barrier, (2) increased glycolysis due to energy failure or impairment and (3) increased lactate production/release or decreased lactate utilization/uptake. This review explores the different reasons for lactate accumulation in the brain during liver failure and describes the possible roles of lactate in the pathogenesis of HE.
Hepatic encephalopathy (HE) is a serious neuropsychiatric complication of liver failure, characterized neuropathologically by astrocyte swelling, microglial activation and Alzheimer Type II astrocytosis. Molecular studies in HE brain reveal altered expression of genes coding for key astroglial proteins including early losses of expression of GFAP and the glutamate transporter EEAT-2 with concomitant increases of the astrocytic/microglial mitochondrial benzodiazepine receptor (MBR). Decreased expression of EAAT-2 results in decreased glutamate transport and impaired cycling of glutamate-glutamine between astrocytes and neurons, as well as increased extracellular glutamate, activation of the NMDA receptor-mediated cGMP-NO signal transduction pathway, and nitration of tyrosine residues on key astroglial proteins such as glutamine synthetase (GS) and the MBR. GS is uniquely responsible for the removal of excess ammonia in brain. Ammonia-induced activation of MBR in astrocytes and/or microglia results in stimulation of the synthesis of neurosteroids such as allopregnanolone with positive allosteric GABA-A receptor neuromodulatory properties. Allopregnanolone concentrations are increased up to 7-fold in HE brain. Attenuation of microglial activation by minocycline results in a delay in onset of HE and prevents brain edema in liver failure. Mild hypothermia is likewise beneficial in acute liver failure resulting in normalization of extracellular brain glutamate and prevention of oxidative/nitrosative stress in experimental animals with HE resulting from either ischemic or toxic liver injuries.
Nucleofection is a powerful non-viral transfection technique that can deliver plasmid DNA with high efficiency to cells that are traditionally difficult to transfect. In this study, we demonstrate that nucleofection of astrocytes grown in primary cell culture resulted in 76  9% transfected cells and low cytotoxicity. However, the nucleofected astrocytes showed a reduced re-attachment to the growth media when replated and subsequent impairment of proliferation. This led to substantially decreased cell densities during the initial 72 h following transfection. Furthermore, these cells were less efficient at producing wound closure in a scratch model of injury. Nucleofection also resulted in the generation of a small proportion of polynucleated cells. The findings demonstrate that nucleofection provides a valuable technique for delivering DNA to astrocytes in culture. However, considerable care is needed in designing and interpreting such studies because of long-lasting changes induced in key properties of these cells by the nucleofection process.
The aim was to define a primary culture system enriched in neurons using a defined culture medium, and characterize the model system as to cellular morphology and neuronal phenotypes. We found that these primary neuron enriched cultures from either newborn rat cerebral cortex or hippocampus contain small GABAergic and large glutamatergic neurons as well as astrocytes and microglia. Astrocytes in these cultures are morphologically differentiated with long, slender processes and interact with soluble factors responsible for induction and expression of the glutamate transporter GLT-1. The cultures achieve the highest expression of the vesicular glutamate transporter 1 (VGLUT1) and GLT-1 after 20 days in vitro. Conditioned media from these neuron enriched cultures also induced GLT-1 expression in primary astrocytic cultures, which were free from neurons. The amount of glutamatergic neurons guides the morphological maturation of astrocytes and GLT-1 expression both in the neuron enriched cultures and in the conditioned media supplemented astrocytic cultures. Interestingly, these cultures were not influenced or activated by the inflammatory stimulus lipopolysaccharide. This suggests that soluble factors from neurons protect microglia and astrocytes to become inflammatory reactive. In conclusion we have developed a well characterized culture model system enriched in neurons, taken from newborn rats and cultured in defined media. The neurons express different neuronal phenotypes. Such a model system is valuable when studying interactions between neurons and glial cells.
To provide a neurobiological basis for understanding decision-making and decision confidence, we describe and analyze a neuronal spiking attractor-based model of decision-making that makes predictions about synaptic and neuronal activity, the fMRI BOLD response, and behavioral choice as a function of the easiness of the decision, and thus decision confidence. The spiking network model predicts probabilistic decision-making with faster and larger neuronal responses on easy versus difficult choices, that is as the discriminability DeltaI between the choices increases, and these and the synaptic currents in turn predict larger BOLD responses as the discriminability increases. Confidence, which increases with discriminability, thus emerges from the firing rates of the decision-making neurons in the choice attractor network. In two fMRI studies, we confirm these predictions by showing that brain areas such as medial prefrontal cortex area 10 implicated in choice decision-making between pleasant stimuli have BOLD activations linearly related to the easiness of both olfactory and warm pleasantness choices. Further, this signature is not found in orbitofrontal cortex areas that represent on a continuous scale the value of the stimuli, but are not implicated in the choice itself. This provides a unifying and fundamental approach to decision-making and decision confidence, and to how spiking-related noise in the brain affects choice, confidence, synaptic and neuronal activity, and fMRI signals.
Classical theories of spatial microgenesis (Siegel and White, 1975) posit that information about landmarks and the paths between them is acquired prior to the establishment of more holistic survey-level representations. To test this idea, we examined the neural and behavioral correlates of landmark and path encoding during a real-world route learning episode. Subjects were taught a novel 3 km route around the University of Pennsylvania campus and then brought to the laboratory where they performed a recognition task that required them to discriminate between on-route and off-route buildings. Each building was preceded by a masked prime, which could either be the building that immediately preceded the target building along the route or immediately succeeded it. Consistent with previous reports using a similar paradigm in a virtual environment (Janzen and Weststeijn, 2007), buildings at navigational decision points (DPs) were more easily recognized than non-DP buildings and recognition was facilitated by in-route vs. against-route primes. Functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) data collected during the recognition task revealed two effects of interest: first, greater response to DP vs. non-DP buildings in a wide network of brain regions previously implicated in spatial processing; second, a significant interaction between building location (DP vs. non-DP) and route direction (in-route vs. against-route) in a retrosplenial/parietal-occipital sulcus region previously labeled the retrosplenial complex (RSC). These results indicate that newly learned real-world routes are coded in terms of paths between decision points and suggest that the RSC may be a critical locus for integrating landmark and path information.
Recent advances in neuroimaging have highlighted the interest to differentiate hippocampal subfields for cognitive neurosciences and more notably in assessing the effects of normal and pathological aging. The main goal of the present study is to investigate the effects of normal aging onto the volume of the different hippocampal subfields. For this purpose, we developed a new magnetic resonance sequence together with reliable tracing guidelines to assess the volume of different subfields of the hippocampus using a 3 Tesla scanner, and estimated the validity of a simpler and less time-consuming method based on the widely-used automatic Voxel-Based Morphometry (VBM) technique. Three hippocampal regions of interest were delineated on the right and left hippocampi of 50 healthy subjects between 18 and 68 years old corresponding to the CA1, subiculum and other (including CA2-3-4 and Dentate Gyrus) subfields. A strong effect of age was found on the volume of the subiculum only, with a decrease paralleling that of the global gray matter volume, while CA1 and other subfields seemed relatively spared. Although less precise than the ROI-tracing technique, the VBM-based method appeared as a reliable alternative especially to distinguish CA1 and subiculum subfields. Our findings of a specific effect of age on the subiculum are consistent with the developmental hypothesis (&quot;last-in first-out&quot; theory). This contrasts with the predominant vulnerability of the CA1 subfield to Alzheimer's disease reported in several previous studies, suggesting that the assessment of hippocampal subfields may improve the discrimination between normal and pathological aging.
In this study, we investigated brain mechanisms for the generation of subjective experience from objective sensory inputs. Our experimental construct was subjective tranquility. Tranquility is a mental state more likely to occur in the presence of objective sensory inputs that arise from natural features in the environment. We used functional magnetic resonance imaging to examine the neural response to scenes that were visually distinct (beach images vs. freeway images) and experienced as tranquil (beach) or non-tranquil (freeway). Both sets of scenes had the same auditory component because waves breaking on a beach and vehicles moving on a freeway can produce similar auditory spectral and temporal characteristics, perceived as a constant roar. Compared with scenes experienced as non-tranquil, we found that subjectively tranquil scenes were associated with significantly greater effective connectivity between the auditory cortex and medial prefrontal cortex, a region implicated in the evaluation of mental states. Similarly enhanced connectivity was also observed between the auditory cortex and posterior cingulate gyrus, temporoparietal cortex and thalamus. These findings demonstrate that visual context can modulate connectivity of the auditory cortex with regions implicated in the generation of subjective states. Importantly, this effect arises under conditions of identical auditory input. Hence, the same sound may be associated with different percepts reflecting varying connectivity between the auditory cortex and other brain regions. This suggests that subjective experience is more closely linked to the connectivity state of the auditory cortex than to its basic sensory inputs.
Brain activity during resting wakefulness is characterized by slow (&lt;0.1Hz) fluctuations of blood oxygenation level-dependent (BOLD) functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) signals that are topographically organized in discrete functional connectivity networks (resting-state networks, RSNs). The present study aimed at revealing possible network-specific alcohol-induced changes in resting-state fMRI (RS-fMRI) signals. RS-fMRI was carried out on eight healthy subjects in four consecutive 6-min sessions, one before and three after a 0.7 g/kg dose of ethyl alcohol. Control experiments were carried out in different days without alcohol administration. Independent component analysis (ICA) was performed on all experimental and control scans to extract individual and group-level RSN maps in a dynamic network analysis. Alcohol administration significantly increased the overall strength of the visual network ICA component, reaching the peak at 90 min. Within the visual network, the alcohol-induced increase was more pronounced in the primary regions of the occipital cortex and less pronounced in the secondary regions of the occipito-temporal cortex. Other major RSN components, such as the default-mode, the fronto-parietal, the sensori-motor, the self-referential and the auditory components, did not exhibit alcohol-induced changes during the same time window. Alcohol-induced effects on the resting-state functional connectivity of the visual network observed in the present study demonstrate that the visual system is a selective and primary target of acute alcohol administration. The strong enhancement of spontaneous BOLD fluctuations in the primary visual cortex in an acute alcoholic state may impair the normal activation response to visual stimuli and affect visual perception.
Motor fluctuations and dyskinesias are common motor complications that manifest within the first few years from the initiation of therapy in patients with Parkinson disease. These complications negatively affect the quality of life and represent an important source of disability. A growing number of therapeutic options including treatments aimed at prolonging the efficacy of levodopa (eg, selective monoamine oxidase-B inhibitors and catechol-O-methyltransferase inhibitors), administration of longer-acting dopamine agonists (eg, rotigotine, sustained-release ropinirole), and continuous administration of intraduodenal levodopa exist or will soon become available. Patients who maintain a good response to levodopa but continue to experience disabling motor complications despite the best medical management may benefit from a regimen of subcutaneous apomorphine, ideally delivered by a subcutaneous pump, or deep-brain stimulation of the subthalamic nucleus or internal portion of the pallidum. Emerging therapies for motor complications are expected to further enhance continuous (physiologic) delivery of dopaminergic drugs and extend the reach of therapies beyond the dopaminergic system to influence not only the motor but also the vast range of nonmotor complications of this multisystemic disease.
Wilson's disease (WD) has neuro-anatomical, pathophysiological and neurochemical basis for sleep disturbances. The aim of the study was objective evaluation of the frequency and nature of sleep abnormalities using polysomnography (PSG) in patients with WD. The study included 25 subjects with WD (males, 18; age , 24.4  9.25 years) and 25 healthy controls (all males; age, 33.1  9.7 years). After phenotypic assessment and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), sleep-related questionnaires were administered, and PSG was performed. Patients had significantly reduced total sleep-time (P=.001), sleep-efficiency (P=.001), percentage of deep sleep (P=.01), and REM-sleep (P=.04) with prolonged sleep-onset latency (P=.05) and latency to stage 2 (P=.02). Subgroup analyses of patients based on demographic and clinical parameters were done. Men had significantly more bradycardia both during awake (P=.002) and sleep (P=.03) states. Younger patients (&lt;20 years) had frequent tachycardia (P=.01), higher Periodic Limb Movement (PLM) Index (P=.01) and lesser REM% sleep (P=.05). Patients on de-coppering therapy had prolonged REM-sleep-onset latency (P=.03) and mixed apnea events (P=.04). The isolated limb movements were more in the severe form of disease (P=.05) and in patients taking anticonvulsants (P=.03). This study, the first of its kind in literature, revealed significant sleep disturbances in patients with Wilson's disease.
Ability to non-invasively map the hemodynamic changes occurring focally in areas of brain involved in various motor, sensory and cognitive functions by functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) has revolutionized research in neuroscience in the last two decades. This technique has already gained clinical use especially in pre-surgical evaluation of epilepsy and neurosurgical planning of resection of mass lesions adjacent to eloquent cortex. In this review we attempt to illustrate basic principles and techniques of fMRI, its applications, practical points to consider while performing and evaluating clinical fMRI and its limitations.

The righting reflex (RR) as a behavioral index of incomplete ischemia during four-vessel occlusion (4VO) remains a common exclusion criterion. In the present study different drugs (aniracetam, ondansetron, and metyrapone) were administered to Wistar rats at a variety of doses prior to unanesthetized forebrain ischemia lasting 10 minutes forebrain ischemia in. Using the RR as an exclusion criterion, their effects on neuronal survival and functional recovery were investigated. Our observations revealed dose-related suppression of RR expression leading to a higher proportion of drug-treated rats categorized as having experienced successful ischemia compared to the vehicle-treated groups. If uncontrolled, this effect led to assessments of increased neuronal survival (in CA1 hippocampal subfield) or improved cognitive behavioral recovery in treated rats. These observations appeared to be related to failure in identifying rats subjected to incomplete forebrain ischemia producing minimal neuronal damage rather than protective effects associated to drug administration. These findings highlight the risk of falsely reporting treatment-related neuronal protection with the unanesthetized 4VO model in rodents.
Multiple sclerosis (MS) is a progressive disease of the CNS, characterized by the production of widespread lesions in the brain and spinal cord. Inflammatory demyelination has traditionally been seen as the main disease process in MS; however, axonal damage or loss is increasingly being documented to occur early in the disease. Cognitive deficits can occur independently of physical disability, which complicates their identification and recognition. More recently, cortical demyelination has been identified among possible causes of cognitive impairment in MS. Neuropsychological studies have consistently demonstrated that 40-65% of patients with MS experience cognitive dysfunction, particularly in recent memory, information processing speed, and sustained attention. Early detection of cognitive impairment is essential to enable therapeutic intervention to alleviate symptoms or prevent further cognitive decline, although how best to manage MS-related cognitive impairment is currently unclear. Treatment strategies for cognitive impairment in MS are still in their infancy. This article will summarize several pharmacological attempts to enhance cognitive performances in people with MS.
Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) techniques have contributed to ameliorate the understanding of the mechanisms responsible for the accumulation of cognitive impairment in patients with multiple sclerosis. Earlier studies demonstrated a relationship of the location of T2-visible lesions in critical brain regions and atrophy of several brain compartments with the severity of cognitive impairment in these patients. More recently, the development of new postprocessing approaches and the application of quantitative MR techniques for the assessment of structural disease-related damage in the brain normal-appearing white matter and gray matter resulted in a better understanding of the factors associated with the onset and development of deficits of several cognitive domains. In addition, the use of functional MRI has disclosed that brain cortical reorganization may play a role in limiting the neuropsychological consequences of structural damage in the different stages of the disease.
Multiple sclerosis (MS) is a chronic inflammatory and degenerative disease of the central nervous system. In the last decade, pathological and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) studies have shown that a significant portion of inflammatory lesions are located in the grey matter, especially in the cerebral cortex, of MS patients. Cortical inflammatory lesions (CL) can be demonstrated in vivo in MS patients by double inversion recovery (DIR) MRI sequence. Neuropsychological deficits constitute a major clinical aspect of MS, being demonstrated in a percentage ranging from 40 to 65% of patients, and have been shown to be associated with cortical demyelination and atrophy. Recent DIR studies in MS patients having different clinical forms of the disease have disclosed that CL burden not only correlates with the severity of physical disability, but is also one of the major structural changes associated with disease-related cognitive impairment.

Intracranial atherosclerotic disease is one of the most common causes of stroke worldwide, yet treatment for this disease is still uncertain. This article discusses challenges in the diagnosis and treatment of intracranial stenosis by posing 10 commonly asked questions about this disease.
In adult olfactory nerves of mammals and moths, a network of glial cells ensheathes small bundles of olfactory receptor axons. In the developing antennal nerve (AN) of the moth Manduca sexta, the axons of olfactory receptor neurons (ORNs) migrate from the olfactory sensory epithelium toward the antennal lobe. Here we explore developmental interactions between ORN axons and AN glial cells. During early stages in AN glial-cell migration, glial cells are highly dye coupled, dividing glia are readily found in the nerve and AN glial cells label strongly for glutamine synthetase. By the end of this period, dye-coupling is rare, glial proliferation has ceased, glutamine synthetase labeling is absent, and glial processes have begun to extend to enwrap bundles of axons, a process that continues throughout the remainder of metamorphic development. Whole-cell and perforated-patch recordings in vivo from AN glia at different stages of network formation revealed two potassium currents and an R-like calcium current. Chronic in vivo exposure to the R-type channel blocker SNX-482 halted or greatly reduced AN glial migration. Chronically blocking spontaneous Na-dependent activity by injection of tetrodotoxin reduced the glial calcium current implicating an activity-dependent interaction between ORNs and glial cells in the development of glial calcium currents.
Inhibitors of the glycine transporter GlyT-1 are being developed as potential treatments for schizophrenia. Here we report on the use of two novel radioligands, [(3)H]-SB-733993 and [(3)H]-GSK931145, for the characterisation of GlyT-1 in both cells and native tissue. Binding was evaluated in membranes either from HEK293 cells expressing recombinant human GlyT-1 (hGlyT-1) or from rat cerebral cortex. Specific binding of both [(3)H]-SB-733993 and [(3)H]-GSK931145 to hGlyT-1 HEK293 cell membranes and rat cerebral cortex membranes was saturable and comprised &gt;90% of total binding. K(d) and B(max) values for the two radioligands were fairly similar, with K(d) values of 1-2 nM and B(max) values of around 7000 fmol/mg protein in hGlyT-1 membranes and 3000 fmol/mg protein in rat cortex membranes. Association of [(3)H]-SB-733993 was faster, with binding reaching equilibrium within 30 min compared with 90 min for [(3)H]-GSK931145. Dissociation was also much slower for [(3)H]-GSK931145 than for [(3)H]-SB-733993, with 50% of specific binding being dissociated by approximately 40 min and 5 min, respectively. Autoradiography studies with [(3)H]-GSK931145 showed widespread distribution of binding in rat brain, with generally higher binding in caudal compared with rostral areas. Initial studies in human frontal cortex membranes showed clear specific binding of [(3)H]-GSK931145, though with much lower density (B(max) 570 fmol/mg protein) and slightly lower affinity (K(d) 4.5 nM) compared with rat cortex. A human brain autoradiography study showed higher specific binding in cerebellum compared with frontal cortex. All GlyT-1 inhibitors tested, as well as glycine itself, competed fully for the binding of both [(3)H]-SB-733993 and [(3)H]-GSK931145 in both hGlyT-1 and rat cortex membranes. Studies on the effect of varying NaCl concentration showed that [(3)H]-SB-733993 binding was reduced by &gt;90% in the absence of added Na(+) ions, whilst [(3)H]-GSK931145 binding was unaffected. Glycine produced concentration-dependent decreases in binding affinity of both radioligands without major changes in B(max) values, suggesting that both [(3)H]-SB-733993 and [(3)H]-GSK931145 bind to sites on GlyT-1 that are orthosteric to the site at which glycine itself binds. Overall, these results show that both [(3)H]-SB-733993 and [(3)H]-GSK931145 are useful radioligands for studies on GlyT-1 in both cell lines and native tissues, with [(3)H]-GSK931145 being the radioligand of choice for further studies on GlyT-1 expression and pharmacology.
Agomelatine, a novel melatonin analogue and anti-depressant that acts as an agonist on melatonin receptors 1 and 2 and as an antagonist at the 5HT2C receptor, was tested for its effects on cell proliferation in the dentate gyrus of the adult rat hippocampus under intact and flattened corticosterone rhythm conditions. Agomelatine stimulated mitosis rates in the intact male rat. Flattening the daily corticosterone rhythm by inserting a subcutaneous pellet of this steroid prevented the action of agomelatine. However, adding a daily injection of corticosterone at CT1200 to rats with implanted corticosterone pellets failed to restore agomelatine's efficacy on cell proliferation. The 5HT2C receptor antagonist SB242084 stimulated progenitor cell proliferation in the dentate gyrus, while a 5HT2C agonist (RO600175) had no effect on cell proliferation alone, but counteracted that of agomelatine. These results suggest that agomelatine, a new anti-depressant, can stimulate progenitor cell mitosis in the dentate gyrus. Its action requires an intact diurnal corticosterone rhythm. The action of agomelatine on neurogenesis is likely to reside in its antagonism of the 5HT2C receptor, and suggests a mechanism distinct from that of fluoxetine, another anti-depressant, which, as previous work shows, acts through the 5HT1A receptor, but whose action is also blocked by a flattened corticosterone rhythm.
Risky decision making is a complex process that involves weighing the probabilities of alternative options that can be desirable, undesirable, or neutral. Individuals vary greatly in how they make decisions either under ambiguity and/or under risk. Such individual differences may have genetic bases. Based on previous studies on the genetic basis of decision making, two decision making tasks [i.e., the Iowa Gambling Task (IGT) and Loss Aversion Task (LAT)] were used to test the effect of 5-HTTLPR polymorphism on decision making under ambiguity and under risk in a large Han Chinese sample (572 college students, 312 females). Basic intelligence and memory tests were also included to control for the influence of basic cognitive abilities on decision making. We found that 5-HTTLPR polymorphism significantly influenced performance in both IGT and LAT. After controlling for intelligence and memory abilities, subjects homozygous for s allele had lower IGT scores than l carriers in the first 40 trials of the IGT task. They also exhibited higher loss aversion than l carriers in the LAT task. Moreover, the effects of 5-HTTLPR were stronger for males than for females. These results extend the literature on the important role of emotion in decision making under ambiguity and risk, and shed additional lights on how decision making is influenced by culture as well as sex differences. Combining our results with existing literature, we propose that these effects might be mediated by a neural circuitry that comprises the amygdala, ventromedial prefrontal cortex, and insular cortex. Understanding the genetic factors affecting decision making in healthy subjects may allow us to better identify at-risk individuals, and better target the development of new potential treatments for specific disorders such as schizophrenia, addiction, and depression.
Acute amphetamine administration activates monoaminergic pathways and increases systemic corticosterone, both of which influence anxiety states and adult dentate gyrus neurogenesis. Chronic amphetamine increases anxiety states in rats when measured at 24 h and at 2 weeks of withdrawal. However, the effects of chronic amphetamine exposure and withdrawal on long term anxiety-like behavior and adult neurogenesis in the dentate gyrus are unknown. Adult male rats were administered amphetamine (2.5 mg/kg, ip.) daily for two weeks. Anxiety-like behaviors were increased markedly in amphetamine-treated rats following four weeks of withdrawal from amphetamine. Plasma corticosterone level was unaltered by amphetamine treatment or withdrawal. However, norepinephrine and serotonin concentrations were selectively reduced in the dentate gyrus 20 h following amphetamine treatment. This effect did not persist through the four week withdrawal period. In separate experiments, rats received bromodeoxyuridine to label cells in S-phase, prior to or immediately following amphetamine treatment. Newly generated cells were quantified to measure extent of progenitor cell proliferation and neurogenesis following treatment or withdrawal. Progenitor cell proliferation and neurogenesis were not significantly affected by amphetamine exposure when measured 20 h following the last amphetamine treatment. However, neurogenesis in the dentate gyrus was reduced after four weeks of withdrawal when compared to saline-pretreated rats. Overall, our findings indicate that withdrawal from chronic amphetamine leads to persistent anxiety-like behavior which may be maintained by reduced neurogenesis in the dentate gyrus at this protracted withdrawal time point. However, neurogenesis is unaffected at earlier withdrawal time points where anxiety states emerge, suggesting different mechanisms may underlie the emergence of anxiety states during amphetamine withdrawal.
Dopamine (DA) neurons in the ventral tegmental area (VTA) have been implicated in brain mechanisms related to motivation, reward, and drug addiction. Successful identification of these neurons in vitro has historically depended upon the expression of a hyperpolarization-activated current (I(h)) and immunohistochemical demonstration of the presence of tyrosine hydroxylase (TH), the rate-limiting enzyme for DA synthesis. Recent findings suggest that electrophysiological criteria may be insufficient for distinguishing DA neurons from non-DA neurons in the VTA. In this study, we sought to determine factors that could potentially account for the apparent discrepancies in the literature regarding DA neuron identification in the rodent brain slice preparation. We found that confirmed DA neurons from the lateral VTA generally displayed a larger amplitude I(h) relative to DA neurons located in the medial VTA. Measurement of a large amplitude I(h) (&gt;100 pA) consistently indicated a dopaminergic phenotype, but non-dopamine neurons also can have I(h) current. The data also showed that immunohistochemical TH labeling of DA neurons can render false negative results after relatively long duration (&gt;15 min) whole-cell patch clamp recordings. We conclude that whole-cell patch clamp recording in combination with immunohistochemical detection of TH expression can guarantee positive but not negative DA identification in the VTA.
One of the major neuropathological hallmarks in Alzheimer's disease (AD) is the loss of cholinergic neurones of the nucleus basalis of Meynert (NbM). This consistent finding gave rise to the 'cholinergic' hypothesis of AD and lead to the subsequent development of acetylcholinesterase (AChE) inhibitors; the first class of drug to be approved for the treatment of AD. However, several studies have questioned the efficacy of using AChE inhibitors in AD. In this study we have investigated the ability of two AChE inhibitors, donepezil (Aricept) and physostigmine, to induce gamma oscillatory activity in rat hippocampal slices; network activity believed to play a role in higher cognitive function. We report here that donepezil is capable of inducing gamma oscillations in region CA3 of rat hippocampal slices, which may contribute to its procognitive action. However, donepezil-induced gamma oscillations are weak in comparison to physostigmine. We also explore the activity of novel agents with known procognitive activity, and show that one such agent, the M(1) muscarinic acetylcholine receptor agonist, 77-LH-28-1, can significantly enhance donepezil-induced gamma oscillations. These data support the notion that it should be possible to find a more efficacious AChE inhibitor or an adjunctive approach, to provide a better therapeutic intervention in AD.
Cyclic nucleotide-specific phosphodiesterases (PDEs) play a critical role in signal transduction by regulating the level of adenosine 3',5'-cyclic monophosphate (cAMP) and guanosine 3',5'-cyclic monophosphate (cGMP) in cells. The gene expression pattern of a PDE provides important information regarding its role in physiological and pathological processes. In this study, we have established the mRNA expression profile all PDE isoenzymes (PDE1A/B/C, 2A, 3A/B, 4A/B/C/D, 5A, 6A/B/C, 7A/B, 8A/B, 9A, 10A, 11A) in a human cDNA collection consisting of 10 brain regions (parietal, frontal, temporal cortex, hippocampus, striatum, thalamus, hypothalamus, substantia nigra, nucleus accumbens, cerebellum), spinal cord, dorsal root ganglia and 12 peripheral tissues (skeletal muscle, heart, thyroid, adrenal gland, pancreas, bladder, kidney, liver, lung, small intestine, spleen, and stomach). Using quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction and parallel analysis of a carefully selected group of reference genes, we have determined the relative expression of each PDE isoenzyme across the 24 selected tissues, and also compared the expression of selected PDEs to each other within a given tissue type. Several PDEs show strikingly selective expression (e.g. PDE10A and PDE1B mRNA levels in the caudate nucleus are 20-fold higher than in most other tissues; PDE1C and PDE3A are highly expressed in the heart and PDE8B is expressed very strongly in the thyroid gland). This comprehensive approach provides a coherent and quantitative view of the mRNA expression of the PDE gene family and enables an integration of data obtained with other non-quantitative methods.
There is a growing and unprecedented interest in the objective evaluation of the subcortical processes that are involved in speech perception, with potential clinical applications in speech and language impairments. Here, we review the studies illustrating the development of electrophysiological methods for assessing speech encoding in the human brainstem: from the pioneer recordings of click-evoked auditory brainstem responses (ABR), via studies of frequency-following responses (FFR) to the most recent measurements of speech ABR (SABR) or ABR in response to speech sounds. Recent research on SABR has provided new insights in the understanding of subcortical auditory processing mechanisms. The SABR test is an objective and non-invasive tool for assessing individual capacity of speech encoding in the brainstem. SABR characteristics are potentially useful both as a diagnosis tool of speech encoding deficits and as an assessment tool of the efficacy of rehabilitation programs in patients with learning and/or auditory processing disorders.

Cognitive neuroscience literature suggests a strong dissociation between the ability to mentally transform object and body stimuli (Hegarty &amp; Waller, 2004). However, little is known about how this ability changes with age. This dissociation was explored in 20 younger (19-24 years) and 20 older (65-87 years) adults. Mental rotation of object stimuli was demonstrated for both age groups, suggesting that the neuro-cognitive network involved with performing (object-based) mental transformations is relatively preserved in older age. Compared to young adults, older adults displayed the greatest decline in performance efficiency for the whole-body task. The authors propose that an age-related decline in the integrity of body-schema information may account for this change.
Theory of mind (ToM) refers to the capacity to infer one's own and other persons' mental states. ToM abilities are compromised in schizophrenia, in association with dysfunctional activity in predominantly prefrontal brain regions. Prior behavioral studies have also suggested ToM deficits in healthy individuals with psychosis proneness (PP), although no study to date had investigated the associated neural mechanisms in such a sample. Here we used functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) to compare brain activation of subjects with high versus low scores on positive-dimension PP and a ToM task. The ToM task involved first and second order attribution of cognitive and affective mental states to a cartoon character based on verbal and eye-gaze cues. No between-group differences were found on behavioral performance. fMRI analyses revealed a group interaction in anterior prefrontal cortex (BA 10), with the high PP group showing significantly more activity thereof, relative to the low PP, during second order mentalizing than during first order mentalizing. Further between-group differences were observed in dorsomedial and lateral prefrontal regions (BA 46/9), with the high PP group also showing greater activation during second order mentalizing. These results suggest that subjects with positive-dimension PP require more activation of prefrontal areas to adequately mentalize. Differences in the neural mechanisms underlying ToM might be associated with vulnerability to psychosis.
Spatial neglect as a multifaceted syndrome may consist of perceptual/attentional as well as motor/intentional components. The present study investigated the lesion anatomy underlying perceptual and response bias using a manual response Landmark task (Bisiach, Ricci, Lualdi, &amp; Colombo, 1998) in 68 patients with right-hemispheric stroke. The two differential aspects of the neglect syndrome were assessed by measuring response tendencies resulting from underestimations of the length of left line segments and from hypometric movement execution towards contralesional space, respectively. Perceptual and response bias were orthogonal components of task performance in the Landmark task. Perceptual as well as response bias both explained variance in the performance of standard paper-and-pencil neglect tests. While lesions within middle frontal, inferior parietal and parieto-occipital brain regions were related to perceptual bias, subcortical lesions within the caudate were related to response bias in the Landmark task. Our data suggest that perceptual/attentional and motor/intentional aspects of neglect are independent components of the syndrome with differential neural underpinnings in fronto-parietal and subcortical brain regions.
The present study investigated the binding of verbal and spatial features in immediate memory. In a recent study, we demonstrated incidental and asymmetrical letter-location binding effects when participants attended to letter features (but not when they attended to location features) that were associated with greater oscillatory activity over prefrontal and posterior regions during the retention period. We were interested to investigate whether the patterns of brain activity associated with the incidental binding of letters and locations observed when only the verbal feature is attended differ from those reflecting the binding resulting from the controlled/explicit processing of both verbal and spatial features. To achieve this, neural activity was recorded using magnetoencephalography (MEG) while participants performed two working memory tasks. Both tasks were identical in terms of their perceptual characteristics and only differed with respect to the task instructions. One of the tasks required participants to process both letters and locations. In the other, participants were instructed to memorize only the letters, regardless of their location. Time-frequency representation of MEG data based on the wavelet transform of the signals was calculated on a single trial basis during the maintenance period of both tasks. Critically, despite equivalent behavioural binding effects in both tasks, single and dual feature encoding relied on different neuroanatomical and neural oscillatory correlates. We propose that enhanced activation of an anterior-posterior dorsal network observed in the task requiring the processing of both features reflects the necessity for allocating greater resources to intentionally process verbal and spatial features in this task.
Studies of inhibitory control have focused on inhibition of motor responses. Individuals with ADHD consistently show reductions in inhibitory control and exhibit reduced activity of rLPFC activity compared to controls when performing such tasks. Recently these same brain regions have been implicated in the inhibition of memory retrieval. The degree to which inhibition of motor responses and inhibition of memory retrieval might involve overlapping systems has been relatively unexplored. The current study examined whether inhibitory difficulties in ADHD extend to inhibitory control over memory retrieval. During fMRI 16 individuals with ADHD and 16 controls performed the Think/No-Think (TNT) task. Behaviorally, the Stop Signal Reaction Time task (SSRT) was used to assess inhibitory control over motor responses. To link both of these measures to behavior, the severity of inattentive and hyperactive symptomatology was also assessed. Behaviorally, ADHD individuals had specific difficulty in inhibiting, but not in elaborating/increasing memory retrieval, which was correlated with symptom severity and longer SSRT. Additionally, ADHD individuals showed reduced activity in rLPFC during the TNT, as compared to control individuals. Moreover, unlike controls, in whom the correlation between activity of the rMFG and hippocampus predicts inhibitory success, no such correlation was observed for ADHD individuals. Moreover, decreased activity in rIFG in individuals with ADHD predicted a decrease in the ability to inhibit motor responses. These results suggest that inhibitory functions of rLPFC include control over both memory and motoric processes. They also suggest that inhibitory deficits in individuals with ADHD extend to the memory domain.
Simple reaction times (RTs) to auditory-somatosensory (AS) multisensory stimuli are facilitated over their unisensory counterparts both when stimuli are delivered to the same location and when separated. In two experiments we addressed the possibility that top-down and/or task-related influences can dynamically impact the spatial representations mediating these effects and the extent to which multisensory facilitation will be observed. Participants performed a simple detection task in response to auditory, somatosensory, or simultaneous AS stimuli that in turn were either spatially aligned or misaligned by lateralizing the stimuli. Additionally, we also informed the participants that they would be retrogradely queried (one-third of trials) regarding the side where a given stimulus in a given sensory modality was presented. In this way, we sought to have participants attending to all possible spatial locations and sensory modalities, while nonetheless having them perform a simple detection task. Experiment 1 provided no cues prior to stimulus delivery. Experiment 2 included spatially uninformative cues (50% of trials). In both experiments, multisensory conditions significantly facilitated detection RTs with no evidence for differences according to spatial alignment (though general benefits of cuing were observed in Experiment 2). Facilitated detection occurs even when attending to spatial information. Performance with probes, quantified using sensitivity (d'), was impaired following multisensory trials in general and significantly more so following misaligned multisensory trials. This indicates that spatial information is not available, despite being task-relevant. The collective results support a model wherein early AS interactions may result in a loss of spatial acuity for unisensory information.
Patients with anorexia nervosa frequently believe they are larger than they really are. The precise nature of this bias is not known: is it a false belief related to the patient's aesthetic and emotional attitudes towards her body? Or could it also reflect abnormal processing of the representation of the body in action? We tested this latter hypothesis by using a body-scaled action-anticipation task in which 25 anorexics and 25 control participants had to judge whether or not an aperture was wide enough for them to pass through. The anticipation of body-scaled action was severely disturbed in anorexic patients; they judged that they could not pass through an aperture, even when it was wide enough (i.e. they behave as if their body was larger than in reality). The abnormally high &quot;passability ratio&quot; (the critical aperture size to shoulder width ratio) was also correlated with the duration of illness and the degree of body concern/dissatisfaction. Our results suggest that body size overestimation in anorexia nervosa is not solely due to psycho-affective factors but rather suggest impaired neural processing of body dimensions that might take its source in parietal networks.
The current study investigated the neural activity patterns associated with numerical sensitivity in adults. Event-related potentials (ERPs) were recorded while adults observed sequentially presented display arrays (S1 and S2) of non-symbolic numerical stimuli (dots) and made same/different judgments of these stimuli by pressing a button only when numerosities were the same (target trials). The main goals were to contrast the effects of numerical distance (close, medium, and far) and change direction (increasing, decreasing) between S1 and S2, both in terms of behavior and brain activity, and to examine the influence of individual differences in numeracy on the effects of these manipulations. Neural effects of distance were found to be significant between 360 and 600 ms after the onset of S2 (greater negativity-wave activity for closer numerical distances), while direction effects were found between 320 and 440 ms (greater negativity for decreasing direction). ERP change direction effects did not interact with numerical distance, suggesting that the two types of information are processed independently. Importantly, subjects' behavioral Weber fractions (w) for the same/different discrimination task correlated with distance-related ERP-activity amplitudes. Moreover, w also correlated with a separate objective measure of mathematical ability. Results thus draw a clear link between brain and behavior measures of number discrimination, while also providing support for the relationship between nonverbal magnitude discrimination and symbolic numerical processing.


Reductionist attempts to dissect complex mechanisms into simpler elements are necessary, but not sufficient for understanding how biological properties like reward emerge out of neuronal activity. Recent studies on intracranial self-administration of neurochemicals (drugs) found that rats learn to self-administer various drugs into the mesolimbic dopamine structures-the posterior ventral tegmental area, medial shell nucleus accumbens and medial olfactory tubercle. In addition, studies found roles of non-dopaminergic mechanisms of the supramammillary, rostromedial tegmental and midbrain raphe nuclei in reward. To explain intracranial self-administration and related effects of various drug manipulations, I outlined a neurobiological theory claiming that there is an intrinsic central process that coordinates various selective functions (including perceptual, visceral, and reinforcement processes) into a global function of approach. Further, this coordinating process for approach arises from interactions between brain structures including those structures mentioned above and their closely linked regions: the medial prefrontal cortex, septal area, ventral pallidum, bed nucleus of stria terminalis, preoptic area, lateral hypothalamic areas, lateral habenula, periaqueductal gray, laterodorsal tegmental nucleus and parabrachical area.
This review focuses on cocaine-induced postsynaptic plasticity in the nucleus accumbens (NAc) involving changes in AMPA receptor (AMPAR) transmission. First, fundamental properties of AMPAR in the NAc are reviewed. Then, we provide a detailed and critical analysis of literature demonstrating alterations in AMPAR transmission in association with behavioral sensitization to cocaine and cocaine self-administration. We conclude that cocaine exposure leads to changes in AMPAR transmission that depend on many factors including whether exposure is contingent or non-contingent, the duration of withdrawal, and whether extinction training has occurred. The relationship between changes in AMPAR transmission and responding to cocaine or cocaine-paired cues can also be affected by these variables. However, after prolonged withdrawal in the absence of extinction training, our findings and others lead us to propose that AMPAR transmission is enhanced, resulting in stronger responding to drug-paired cues. Finally, many results indicate that the state of synaptic transmission in the NAc after cocaine exposure is associated with impairment of AMPAR-dependent plasticity. This may contribute to a broad range of addiction-related behavioral changes.
Understanding the pathophysiology of addictive disorders is critical for development of new treatments. A major focus of addiction research has for a long time been on systems that mediate acute positively reinforcing effects of addictive drugs, most prominently the mesolimbic dopaminergic (DA) system and its connections. This research line has been successful in shedding light on the physiology of both natural and drug reward, but has not led to therapeutic breakthroughs. The role of classical reward systems is perhaps least clear in alcohol addiction. Here, recent work is summarized that points to some clinically important conclusions. First, important pharmacogenetic differences exist with regard to positively reinforcing effects of alcohol and the ability of this drug to activate classical reward pathways. This offers an opportunity for personalized treatment approaches in alcoholism. Second, brain stress and fear systems become pathologically activated in later stages of alcoholism and their activation is a major influence in escalation of alcohol intake, sensitization of stress responses, and susceptibility to relapse. These findings offer a new category of treatment mechanisms. Corticotropin-releasing hormone (CRH) signaling through CRH1 receptors is a major candidate target in this category, but recent data indicate that antagonists for substance P (SP) neurokinin 1 (NK1) receptors may have a similar potential.
Development of pharmacotherapy to reduce relapse rates is one of the biggest challenges in drug addiction research. The enduring nature of relapse suggests that it is maintained by long-lasting molecular and cellular adaptations in the neuronal circuitry that mediates learning and processing of motivationally relevant stimuli. Studies employing the reinstatement model of drug relapse in rodents point to an important role of the medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC), with distinct contributions of the dorsal and ventral regions of the mPFC to drug-, stress- and cue-induced drug seeking. Whereas drug-induced neuroadaptations in the dorsal mPFC function to enhance excitatory output and drive expression of drug seeking, recent evidence suggests that plasticity in the ventral mPFC leads to reduced glutamatergic transmission in this region, thereby impairing response inhibition upon exposure to drug-conditioned stimuli. Treatments aimed at restoring drug-induced neuroadaptations in the mPFC may help to reduce cue-reactivity and relapse susceptibility.

Although numerous studies have been carried out to investigate the pathophysiology of mild traumatic brain injury (mTBI), there are still no standard criteria for the diagnosis and treatment of this peculiar condition. The dominant theory that diffuse axonal injury is the main neuropathological process behind mTBI is being revealed as weak at best or inconclusive, given the current literature and the fact that neuronal injury inherent to mTBI improves, with few lasting clinical sequelae in the vast majority of patients. Clinical and experimental evidence suggests that such a course, rather than being due to cell death, is based on temporal neuronal dysfunction, the inevitable consequence of complex biochemical and neurochemical cascade mechanisms directly and immediately triggered by the traumatic insult. This report is an attempt to summarize data from a long series of experiments conducted in the authors' laboratories and published during the past 12 years, together with an extensive analysis of the available literature, focused on understanding the biochemical damage produced by an mTBI. The overall clinical implications, as well as the metabolic nature of the post-mTBI brain vulnerability, are discussed. Finally, the application of proton MR spectroscopy as a possible tool to monitor the full recovery of brain metabolic functions is emphasized.

The pain of trigeminal neuralgia is considered one of the worst in human experience. Therefore, its treatment has been of special importance in the history of medicine and surgery. Long after physicians began prescribing various herbs and medication for trigeminal neuralgia, surgeons attempted to relieve it by cutting out parts of the nervous system they deemed responsible for the pain. Between the mid-19th and early 20th centuries, several surgeons pioneered surgical procedures aimed at the peripheral and central nervous system. Harvey Cushing contributed the most to increase the safety of these neurosurgical techniques. Due to Dr Cushing's meticulous clinical observation and operative record keeping, we are able to selectively review his newly discovered patient records at Johns Hopkins and Peter Bent Brigham Hospitals and provide insight into the early history and evolution of trigeminal neuralgia surgery. We also review the contributions of other surgeons from the same period.
Withdrawal from daily cocaine administration causes an increase in actin cycling and increases spine head diameter in medium spiny neurons from the core of the nucleus accumbens. In order to determine if these two effects of cocaine are mechanistically linked, after 3weeks of withdrawal from 1week of daily cocaine treatments, we microinjected latrunculin into the accumbens to inhibit actin polymerization and prevent actin cycling. In cocaine-treated animals, latrunculin-reduced dendritic spine density and decreased the levels of F-actin and PSD-95 in postsynaptic density subfractions. In contrast, latrunculin did not affect spine density or protein levels in saline-treated subjects. Cocaine withdrawn animals show an increase in spine head diameter 45min after an acute injection of cocaine, and latrunculin abolished the ability of acute cocaine to increase spine head diameter and simultaneously inhibited the sensitized behavioral response. In contrast, latrunculin had no effect in control animals on the acute locomotor response to cocaine. Altogether, these data support previous findings that withdrawal from cocaine is associated with increased actin cycling, and that the increase in actin cycling contributes to cocaine-induced changes in spine morphology of medium spiny neurons in the accumbens core.
Nucleus accumbens (NAc) neurons are excited primarily by AMPA-type glutamate receptors (AMPAR). This is required for cocaine seeking in animal models of cocaine addiction, suggesting AMPAR transmission in the NAc as a key control point for cocaine-related behaviors. This review will briefly describe AMPAR properties and trafficking, with a focus on studies in NAc neurons, and then consider mechanisms by which cocaine may alter AMPAR transmission. Two examples will be discussed that may be important in two different stages of addiction: learning about drugs and drug-related cues during the period of drug exposure, and persistent vulnerability to craving and relapse after abstinence is achieved. The first example is drawn from studies of cultured NAc neurons. Elevation of dopamine levels (as would occur following cocaine exposure) facilitates activity-dependent strengthening of excitatory synapses onto medium spiny neurons, the main cell type and projection neuron of the NAc. This occurs because activation of D1-class dopamine receptors primes AMPAR for synaptic insertion. This may create a temporal window in which stimuli related to cocaine-taking are more efficacious at eliciting synaptic plasticity and thus being encoded into memory. The second example involves rat models of cocaine addiction. Cell surface and synaptic expression of AMPAR on NAc neurons is persistently increased after withdrawal from repeated cocaine exposure. We hypothesize that this increases the reactivity of NAc neurons to glutamate inputs from cortex and limbic structures, facilitating the ability of these inputs to trigger cocaine seeking and thus contributing to the persistent vulnerability to relapse that characterizes addiction.
The dopamine system is under multiple forms of regulation, and in turn provides effective modulation of system responses. Dopamine neurons are known to exist in several states of activity. The population activity, or the proportion of dopamine neurons firing spontaneously, is controlled by the ventral subiculum of the hippocampus. In contrast, burst firing, which is proposed to be the behaviorally salient output of the dopamine system, is driven by the brainstem pedunculopontine tegmentum (PPTg). When an animal is exposed to a behaviorally salient stimulus, the PPTg elicits a burst of action potentials in the dopamine neurons. However, this bursting only occurs in the portion of the dopamine neuron population that is firing spontaneously. This proportion is regulated by the ventral subiculum. Therefore, the ventral subiculum provides the gain, or the amplification factor, for the behaviorally salient stimulus. The ventral subiculum itself is proposed to carry information related to the environmental context. Thus, the ventral subiculum will adjust the responsivity of the dopamine system based on the needs of the organism and the characteristics of the environment. However, this finely tuned system can be disrupted in disease states. In schizophrenia, a disruption of interneuronal regulation of the ventral subiculum is proposed to lead to an overdrive of the dopamine system, rendering the system in a constant hypervigilant state. Moreover, amphetamine sensitization and stressors also appear to cause an abnormal dopaminergic drive. Such an interaction could underlie the risk factors of drug abuse and stress in the precipitation of a psychotic event. On the other hand, this could point to the ventral subiculum as an effective site of therapeutic intervention in the treatment or even the prevention of schizophrenia.

The advent of high-field MRI systems has allowed the implementation of blood oxygen level-dependent functional MRI (BOLD fMRI) on small animals. An increased magnetic field improves the signal-to-noise ratio and thus allows an improvement in the spatial resolution. However, it also increases susceptibility artefacts in the commonly acquired gradient-echo images. This problem is particularly prominent in songbird MRI because of the presence of numerous air cavities in the skull of birds. These T(2)*-related image artefacts can be circumvented using spin-echo BOLD fMRI. In this article, we describe the implementation of spin-echo BOLD fMRI in zebra finches, a small songbird of 15-25g, extensively studied in the behavioural neurosciences of birdsong. Because the main topics in this research domain are song perception and song learning, the protocol implemented used auditory stimuli. Despite the auditory nature of the stimuli and the weak contrast-to-noise ratio of spin-echo BOLD fMRI compared with gradient-echo BOLD fMRI, we succeeded in detecting statistically significant differences in BOLD responses triggered by different stimuli. This study shows that spin-echo BOLD fMRI is a viable approach for the investigation of auditory processing in the whole brain of small songbirds. It can also be applied to study auditory processing in other small animals, as well as other sensory modalities.

The normal-weight obese (NWO) syndrome was identified in women whose body weight (BW) and BMI are normal but whose fat mass (FM) is &gt;30%. In these subjects, an early inflammatory status has been demonstrated. The aim was to verify whether oxidative stress occurs in NWO. Sixty age-matched white Italian women were studied and subdivided as follows: 20 normal-weight individuals (NW) (BMI &lt;25 kg/m(2); FM% &lt;30%); 20 NWO (BMI &lt;25 kg/m(2); FM% &gt;30%); 20 preobese-obese (OB) (BMI &gt;25 kg/m(2); FM% &gt;30%). Anthropometric, body composition (by dual-energy X-ray absorptiometry) variables, plasma levels of some cytokines, reduced glutathione (GSH), lipid hydroperoxide (LOOH), nitric oxide (NO) metabolites (NO(2)(-)/NO(3)(-)), antioxidant nonproteic capacity (ANPC) were measured and compared between groups. Glucose and lipid metabolism parameters were assessed. GSH and NO(2)(-)/NO(3)(-) levels resulted lower in OB and NWO compared to NW (P &lt; 0.01). LOOH levels resulted higher in OB and NWO (P &lt; 0.01). ANPC in NWO was lower than NW but higher with respect to OB (P &lt; 0.01). Correlation analysis revealed strong associations between GSH levels and BW, BMI, FM% (R = -0.45, at least P &lt; 0.05); waist circumference (W) (R = -0.33, P &lt; 0.05); FFM% (R = 0.45, P &lt; 0.01); IL-1, IL-6, IL-10, IL-15 (R = -0.39, -0.33, -0.36 -0.34, respectively, P &lt; 0.05); triglycerides (R = -0.416, P &lt; 0.05). LOOH levels were negatively related to FFM% (R = -0.413, P &lt; 0.05) and positively to FM%, IL-15, TNF-, insulin, total cholesterol, low-density lipoprotein cholesterol, and triglycerides (R = 0.408, R = 0.502, R = 0.341, R = 0.412, R = 0.4036, R = 0.405, R = 0.405, respectively, P &lt; 0.05). The study clearly indicates that NWO, besides being in early inflammatory status, are contextually exposed to an oxidative stress related to metabolic abnormalities occurring in obesity.
The mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR) and its associated cell signaling pathways have garnered significant attention for their roles in cell biology and oncology. Interestingly, the explosion of information in this field has linked mTOR to neurological diseases with promising initial studies. mTOR, a 289 kDa serine/threonine protein kinase, plays an important role in cell growth and proliferation and is activated through phosphorylation in response to growth factors, mitogens, and hormones. Growth factors, amino acids, cellular nutrients, and oxygen deficiency can down-regulate mTOR activity. The function of mTOR signaling is mediated primarily through two mTOR complexes: mTORC1 and mTORC2. mTORC1 initiates cap-dependent protein translation, a rate-limiting step of protein synthesis, through the phosphorylation of the targets eukaryotic initiation factor 4E-binding protein 1 (4EBP1) and p70 ribosomal S6 kinase (p70S6K). In contrast, mTORC2 regulates development of the cytoskeleton and also controls cell survival. Although closely tied to tumorigenesis, mTOR and the downstream signaling pathways are significantly involved in the central nervous system (CNS) with synaptic plasticity, memory retention, neuroendocrine regulation associated with food intake and puberty, and modulation of neuronal repair following injury. The signaling pathways of mTOR also are believed to be a significant component in a number of neurological diseases, such as Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's disease, and Huntington's disease, tuberous sclerosis, neurofibromatosis, fragile X syndrome, epilepsy, traumatic brain injury, and ischemic stroke. Here we describe the role of mTOR in the CNS and illustrate the potential for new strategies directed against neurological disorders.
Although the formalin test is a widely used model of persistent pain, the primary afferent fiber types that underlie the cellular and behavioral responses to formalin injection are largely unknown. Here we used a combined genetic and pharmacological approach to investigate the effect of ablating subsets of primary afferent nociceptors on formalin-induced nocifensive behaviors and spinal cord Fos protein expression. Intrathecal capsaicin-induced ablation of the central terminals of TRPV1+neurons greatly reduced the behavioral responses and Fos elicited by low-dose (0.5%) formalin. In contrast, genetic ablation of the MrgprD-expressing subset of non-peptidergic unmyelinated afferents, which constitute a largely non-overlapping population, altered neither the behavior nor the Fos induced by low-dose formalin. Remarkably, nocifensive behavior following high-dose (2%) formalin was unchanged in mice lacking either afferent population, or even in mice lacking both populations, which together make up the great majority of C-fiber nociceptors. Thus, at high doses, which are routinely used in the formalin test, formalin-induced &quot;pain&quot; behavior persists in the absence of the vast majority of C-fiber nociceptors, which points to a contribution of a large spectrum of afferents secondary to non-specific formalin-induced tissue and nerve damage.
Conditioning procedures are used in many placebo studies because evidence suggests that conditioning-related placebo responses are usually more robust than those induced by verbal suggestions alone. However, it has not been shown whether there is a causal relation between the number of conditioning trials and the resistance to extinction of placebo and nocebo responses. Here we test the effects of either one or four sessions of conditioning on the modulation of both non-painful and painful stimuli delivered to the dorsum of the foot. Placebo and nocebo manipulations were obtained by pairing green or red light to a series of stimuli that were made lower or higher with respect to a yellow light associated with a series of control stimuli. Subjects were told that the lights would indicate a treatment that would reduce or increase non-painful and painful stimuli to the foot. They were randomly assigned to either Group 1 or 2. Group 1 underwent one session of conditioning and Group 2 received four sessions of conditioning. We found that one session of conditioning (Group 1) induced nocebo responses, but not placebo responses in no pain condition. After one session of conditioning, we observed both nocebo and placebo responses to painful stimulation. However, these effects extinguished over time. Conversely, four sessions of conditioning (Group 2) induced robust placebo and nocebo responses to both non-painful and painful stimuli that persisted over the entire experiment. These findings suggest that the strength of learning may be clinically important for producing long-lasting placebo effects.
Stress-induced analgesia (SIA) refers to a reduced pain response after stress exposure, which is mediated by descending pain-inhibitory circuits and may be an indicator of adequate centrally mediated pain control. We used functional magnetic resonance imaging to assess brain mechanisms of SIA in 21 healthy participants. Using a block design series of mildly painful pressure stimuli were applied to the left medial phalanx of the second digit during functional magnetic resonance imaging. Mental arithmetic combined with increasing levels of noise was used as a stressor. Verbal ratings, changes in blood pressure and heart rate confirmed the validity of the stress induction. Post-stress pain thresholds and pain tolerance were significantly higher and post-stress pain and unpleasantness ratings were significantly lower compared to pre-stress levels. SIA led to an increase of the blood-level-dependent oxygenation response in the primary somatosensory cortex, bilaterally in the anterior insula, and secondary somatosensory cortex. The increase in pain tolerance correlated significantly with activation in the rostral anterior cingulate cortex and pain unpleasantness with activation in the dorsal anterior cingulate cortex. SIA seems to activate similar brain networks as placebo analgesia or analgesia mediated by diffuse noxious inhibitory controls and involved sensory, affective and cognitive modulatory circuits.
Lamina II contains a large number of interneurons involved in modulation and transmission of somatosensory (including nociceptive) information. However, its neuronal circuitry is poorly understood due to the difficulty of identifying functional populations of interneurons. This information is important for understanding nociceptive processing and for identifying changes that underlie chronic pain. In this study, we compared morphology, neurotransmitter content, electrophysiological and pharmacological properties for 61 lamina II neurons recorded in slices from adult rat spinal cord. Morphology was related to transmitter content, since islet cells were GABAergic, while radial and most vertical cells were glutamatergic. However, there was considerable diversity among the remaining cells, some of which could not be classified morphologically. Transmitter phenotype was related to firing pattern, since most (18/22) excitatory cells, but few (2/23) inhibitory cells had delayed, gap or reluctant patterns, which are associated with A-type potassium (I(A)) currents. Somatostatin was identified in axons of 14/24 excitatory neurons. These had variable morphology, but most of those tested showed delayed-firing. Excitatory interneurons are therefore likely to contribute to pain states associated with synaptic plasticity involving I(A) currents. Although noradrenaline and serotonin evoked outward currents in both inhibitory and excitatory cells, somatostatin produced these currents only in inhibitory neurons, suggesting that its pro-nociceptive effects are mediated by disinhibition. Our results demonstrate that certain distinctive populations of inhibitory and excitatory interneuron can be recognised in lamina II. Combining this approach with identification of other neurochemical markers should allow further clarification of neuronal circuitry in the superficial dorsal horn.
The inhibitory transmitters GABA and glycine play an important role in modulating pain transmission, both in normal and in pathological situations. In the present study we have combined in situ hybridization for identifying spinal neurons that use the transmitter(s) glycine and/or GABA (Gly/GABA neurons) with immunohistochemistry for c-fos, a marker for neuronal activation. This procedure was used with acute pain models induced by the injection of capsaicin or formalin; and chronic pain models using Complete Freund's Adjuvant (CFA, chronic inflammation), and the spared nerve injury (SNI) model (neuropathic pain). In all models Gly/GABA neurons were activated as indicated by their expression of c-fos. The pattern of Gly/GABA neuronal activation was different for every model, both anatomically and quantitatively. However, the averaged percentage of activated neurons that were Gly/GABA in the chronic phase (20h survival, 46%) was significantly higher than in the acute phase (2h survival, 34%). In addition, the total numbers of activated Gly/GABA neurons were similar in both phases, showing that the activation of non-Gly/GABA (presumed excitatory) neurons in the chronic phase decreased. Finally, morphine application equally decreased the total number of activated neurons and activated Gly/GABA neurons. This showed that morphine did not specifically activate Gly/GABA neurons to achieve nociceptive inhibition. The present study shows an increased activity of Gly/GABA neurons in acute and chronic models. This mechanism, together with mechanisms that antagonize the effects of GABA and glycine at the receptor level, may determine the sensitivity of our pain system during health and disease.
Brief noxious heat evokes more intense pain in women than in men; however, sex differences in the intensity of pain sensations evoked in hairy and glabrous skins are not clearly understood. Glabrous skin putatively lacks the type of A-delta nociceptors that underlie heat-evoked sharp sensation. Therefore, we assessed whether noxious heat-evoked pain qualities differed for hairy and glabrous skins and whether sex differences exist in these evoked pains. We applied a prolonged (30s) ramped noxious heat stimulus to the dorsal and ventral aspects of the feet of 16 males and 16 females. Stimuli were calibrated in each subject to evoke a peak pain magnitude of 50/100. Subjects provided continuous online ratings of pain, annoyance, burning, sharp, stinging and cutting sensations in separate runs. The results indicate that both sex and skin type impact noxious heat-evoked sensations. Specifically, ratings of sharp sensations and annoyance evoked in hairy skin were significantly more intense in women than in men. Sharp, stinging and cutting sensations were evoked in glabrous skin, but the magnitude of these sensations was greater in hairy skin than glabrous skin; an effect only in females. Also, there was no sex difference in sharp sensation and annoyance in glabrous skin. These findings suggest that sharp sensations are evoked more prominently in hairy than in glabrous skin of women and that sharp sensations and annoyance play a prominent role in mediating aspects of pain-evoked from hairy skin in women.

We systematically mistreat psychological phenomena, both logically and clinically. This article explores three contentions: that the dominant discourse in modern cognitive, affective, and clinical neuroscience assumes that we know how psychology/biology causation works when we do not; that there are serious intellectual, clinical, and policy costs to pretending we do know; and that crucial scientific and clinical progress will be stymied as long as we frame psychology, biology, and their relationship in currently dominant ways. The arguments are developed with emphasis on misguided attempts to localize psychological function via neuroimaging, misunderstandings about the role of genetics in psychopathology, and unfortunate constraints on health-care policy and clinical service delivery. A particular challenge, articulated but not resolved in this article, is determining what constitutes adequate explanation in the relationship between psychology and biology.

Olanzapine is an antipsychotic drug that frequently induces weight gain accompanied by increased fat deposition as a side effect. To investigate how olanzapine affects different aspects of energy balance, we used male rats to determine effects on meal patterns, food preference, locomotor activity and body temperature. In two short-term experiments olanzapine was administered via osmotic minipumps. In the first experiment, we offered rats standard lab chow only. In the second experiment, we offered rats free choice between chow, sucrose and saturated fat. In a third experiment, olanzapine was chronically administered via the drinking water to determine effects on body composition. In each experiment olanzapine decreased locomotor activity and altered meal patterns. Olanzapine caused an increase in average meal size accompanied by reduced meal frequency, without clearly affecting food preference. In the chronic experiment body composition was altered, favoring adipose tissue over lean muscle mass, despite reductions in overall body weight gain. The increase in average meal size implies that the primary effect of olanzapine on feeding is an impairment of the normal satiation process. Furthermore, energy balance is clearly affected by a reduction in locomotor activity. Thus, the effects of olanzapine on adiposity do not depend solely on the presence of hyperphagia.
The history of anti-obesity drug development is far from glorious, with transient magic bullets and only a handful of agents currently licensed for clinical use. In view of recent progress in our understanding of the multiplicity of signalling pathways involved in appetite regulation, and the resultant deluge of reports on the anorectic efficacy of novel therapies, it seems timely to stress the need to differentiate treatments that suppress intake by primary means from those that only indirectly achieve this endpoint. The current article reviews the conceptual history of the behavioural satiety sequence (BSS), also known as the behavioural sequence of satiety, post-ingestive satiety, and the postprandial satiety sequence. Early research confirmed that natural satiation, produced by a caloric load on the gut, is associated with a predictable transition from feeding through grooming to resting. Although many less naturalistic manipulations are also capable of reducing food intake, very few do so without disrupting the normal structure of this feeding cycle. Thus, while CCK and d-fenfluramine reduce intake by accelerating but otherwise maintaining the integrity of the BSS, other anorectic interventions disrupt the BSS through response competition (e.g. d-amphetamine), nausea/discomfort (e.g. lithium chloride) and/or interference with taste-mediated positive feedback (e.g. quinine adulteration of the diet). A substantial literature now strongly supports the specific involvement of serotonin 5-HT(1B) and 5-HT(2C) receptor subtypes in satiety and in the anorectic effect of agents such as fenfluramine and fluoxetine. Recent BSS analyses have also identified rather selective anorectic profiles for the dual noradrenaline and 5-HT reuptake inhibitor sibutramine, the orexin-1 receptor antagonist SB-334867, and the broad spectrum opioid receptor antagonist naloxone. However, similar analyses have offered little/no support for the anorectic potential of the gut peptide PYY(3-36) while the acute anorectic efficacy of cannabinoid CB1 receptor antagonist/inverse agonists appears largely to be secondary to response competition. In contrast, studies with low-dose combinations of naloxone and CB1 receptor antagonist/inverse agonists have very recently confirmed the potential of drug polytherapies not only in appetite suppression but also in attenuating/eliminating unwanted side-effects. In sum, as BSS analysis offers a reliable means of differentiating the wheat (primary anorectics) from the chaff (secondary anorectics), it should form an integral part of early phase testing in any anti-obesity drug screening programme.
Epilepsy is a common and serious neurological disorder. Despite recent advances in drug therapy, treatment for epilepsy is still largely empirical and rational prescribing based on the mechanism of action in an individual patient is generally not possible. Genetic studies have identified an increasing collection of disease-causing genes providing a fundamental molecular foundation on which to build this understanding, at least for some forms of epilepsy. The impact of these genetic discoveries is likely to be wide reaching-from the discovery and validation of new drug targets to the potential to enable rational prescribing based on genetic makeup and even further through animal experimentation to tease out molecular and cellular mechanisms that lead to hyperexcitable neuronal networks causing epilepsy. Here we discuss how we can use knowledge of genetic mechanisms to improve treatment strategies now and into the future.
Both vertebrates and invertebrates respond to light by utilising a wide-ranging array of photosensory systems, with diverse photoreceptor organs expressing a characteristic photopigment, itself consisting of an opsin apoprotein linked to a light-sensitive retinoid chromophore based on vitamin A. In the eye, the pigments expressed in both cone and rod photoreceptors have been studied in great depth and mediate contrast perception, measurement of the spectral composition of environmental light, and thus classical image forming vision. By contrast, the molecular basis for non-visual and extraocular photoreception is far less understood; however, two photopigment genes have become the focus of much study, the vertebrate ancient (va) opsin and melanopsin (opn4). In this review, we discuss the history of discovery for each gene, as well as focusing on the evolution, expression profile, functional role and broader physiological significance of each photopigment. Recently, it has been suggested independently by Arendt et al. and Lamb that an ancestral opsin bifurcated in early metazoans and evolved into two quite different photopigments, one expressed in rhabdomeric photoreceptors and the other in ciliary photoreceptors. This interpretation of the evolution of the metazoan eye has provided a powerful framework for understanding photobiological organization. Their proposal, however, does not encompass all current experimental observations that would be consistent with what we term a central &quot;Evolution of Photosensory Opsins with Common Heredity (EPOCH)&quot; hypothesis to explain the complexity of animal photosensory systems. Clearly, many opsin genes (e.g. va opsin) simply do not fit neatly within this scheme. Thus, the review concludes with a discussion of these anomalies and their context regarding the phylogeny of photoreceptor and photopigment development.
The purpose of this study is to assess short- and long-distance walking performance in indoor and outdoor environments of slow and fast walkers' subjects living in the community in the later stage post-stroke. Thirty-six subjects with at least 6 months post-stroke were included and divided into two groups based on their walking speed in the clinical setting. Thirty-meter walk tests (30mWT) at self-selected and maximum speeds were assessed in three environments: (1) clinical setting; (2) basement setting; and (3) outdoor setting. Six-minute walk test (6MWT) distance was assessed in the clinical and outdoor settings. The differences between the 30mWT and the 6MWT, as measured by the actual distance obtained in the 6MWT and the predicted distance calculated for the 30mWT, were also investigated. There was no difference in walking speed when subjects performed short-distance walking in different environments. However, a difference was found in performance of long-distance walking. Subjects who walked 0.8m/s or faster also walked further in the outdoor setting. The findings of our study demonstrate that in those who scored below 0.8m/s, performance of short- and long-distance walking evaluated in an indoor environment reflects the results obtained in an outdoor environment. However, for subjects post-stroke who score 0.8m/s or faster, distance was increased in the outdoor environments during long-distance walking. Walking speed obtained over a short distance seemed to overestimate long-distance walking capacity for the slow walkers, despite the environment.
This comprehensive overview of the xyloglucan endotransglucosylase/hydrolase (XTH) family of genes and proteins in bryophytes, based on research using genomic resources that are newly available for the moss Physcomitrella patens, provides new insights into plant evolution. In angiosperms, the XTH genes are found in large multi-gene families, probably reflecting the diverse roles of individual XTHs in various cell types. As there are fewer cell types in P.patens than in angiosperms such as Arabidopsis and rice, it is tempting to deduce that there are fewer XTH family genes in bryophytes. However, the present study unexpectedly identified as many as 32 genes that potentially encode XTH family proteins in the genome of P.patens, constituting a fairly large multi-gene family that is comparable in size with those of Arabidopsis and rice. In situ localization of xyloglucan endotransglucosylase activity in this moss indicates that some P.patens XTH proteins exhibit biochemical functions similar to those found in angiosperms, and that their expression profiles are tissue-dependent. However, comparison of structural features of families of XTH genes between P.patens and angiosperms demonstrated the existence of several bryophyte-specific XTH genes with distinct structural and functional features that are not found in angiosperms. These bryophyte-specific XTH genes might have evolved to meet morphological and functional needs specific to the bryophyte. These findings raise interesting questions about the biological implications of the XTH family of proteins in non-seed plants.


Electroporation is a widely used technique for enhancing the efficiency of DNA delivery into cells. Application of electric pulses after local injection of DNA temporarily opens cell membranes and facilitates DNA uptake. Delivery of plasmid DNA by electroporation to alter gene expression in tissue has also been explored in vivo. This approach may constitute an alternative to viral gene transfer, or to transgenic or knock-out animals. Among the most frequently electroporated target tissues are skin, muscle, eye, and tumors. Moreover, different regions in the central nervous system (CNS), including the developing neural tube and the spinal cord, as well as prenatal and postnatal brain have been successfully electroporated. Here, we present a comprehensive review of the literature describing electroporation of the CNS with a focus on the adult brain. In addition, the mechanism of electroporation, different ways of delivering the electric pulses, and the risk of damaging the target tissue are highlighted. Electroporation has been successfully used in humans to enhance gene transfer in vaccination or cancer therapy with several clinical trials currently ongoing. Improving the knowledge about in vivo electroporation will pave the way for electroporation-enhanced gene therapy to treat brain carcinomas, as well as CNS disorders such as Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's disease, and depression.
Cannabis use during adolescence increases the risk of developing psychotic disorders later in life. However, the neurobiological processes underlying this relationship are unknown. This review reports the results of a literature search comprising various neurobiological disciplines, ultimately converging into a model that might explain the neurobiology of cannabis-induced schizophrenia. The article briefly reviews current insights into brain development during adolescence. In particular, the role of the excitatory neurotransmitter glutamate in experience-dependent maturation of specific cortical circuitries is examined. The review also covers recent hypotheses regarding disturbances in strengthening and pruning of synaptic connections in the prefrontal cortex, and the link with latent psychotic disorders. In the present model, cannabis-induced schizophrenia is considered to be a distortion of normal late postnatal brain maturation. Distortion of glutamatergic transmission during critical periods may disturb prefrontal neurocircuitry in specific brain areas. Our model postulates that adolescent exposure to 9-tetrahydrocannabinol (THC), the primary psychoactive substance in cannabis, transiently disturbs physiological control of the endogenous cannabinoid system over glutamate and GABA release. As a result, THC may adversely affect adolescent experience-dependent maturation of neural circuitries within prefrontal cortical areas. Depending on dose, exact time window and duration of exposure, this may ultimately lead to the development of psychosis or schizophrenia. The proposed model provides testable hypotheses which can be addressed in future studies, including animal experiments, reanalysis of existing epidemiological data, and prospective epidemiological studies in which the role of the dose-time-effect relationship should be central.
Delusions are the false and often incorrigible beliefs that can cause severe suffering in mental illness. We cannot yet explain them in terms of underlying neurobiological abnormalities. However, by drawing on recent advances in the biological, computational and psychological processes of reinforcement learning, memory, and perception it may be feasible to account for delusions in terms of cognition and brain function. The account focuses on a particular parameter, prediction error--the mismatch between expectation and experience--that provides a computational mechanism common to cortical hierarchies, fronto-striatal circuits and the amygdala as well as parietal cortices. We suggest that delusions result from aberrations in how brain circuits specify hierarchical predictions, and how they compute and respond to prediction errors. Defects in these fundamental brain mechanisms can vitiate perception, memory, bodily agency and social learning such that individuals with delusions experience an internal and external world that healthy individuals would find difficult to comprehend. The present model attempts to provide a framework through which we can build a mechanistic and translational understanding of these puzzling symptoms.
Neurodegenerative diseases exhibit varying and characteristic patterns of regional brain cell death, yet in each disorder there are distinct variations in the relative vulnerability of neurons within targeted brain regions. For example, in Parkinson's disease (PD) up to 90% of dopaminergic neurons of the ventral tier of the substantia nigra pars compacta are lost at post-mortem, while as few as 25% of dopaminergic neurons in the dorsal tier of this nucleus succumb to the disease process. To date the reasons underlying differential vulnerability of similar neurons within a defined cytoarchitectural region has received little attention. We suggest variations in protein distribution underlies this differential vulnerability. Within the substantia nigra pars compacta the more vulnerable neurons exhibit an increased expression of factors that may contribute to vulnerability (D(2) dopamine autoreceptors, GIRK-2 potassium channels, lactotransferrin and the dopamine transporter) while also expressing a relative lack of neuroprotective elements (dopamine vesicle transport protein and a number of trophic and growth factors). Differential distribution of key proteins expressed by individual cells within the same cytoarchitectural brain region may influence the severity and likelihood of common neurodegenerative mechanisms, such as protein aggregation, oxidative stress, neuroinflammation and apoptosis, and thus the eventual fate of individual cells in the disease process. An understanding of how variable protein expression can influence cell survival within the diseased human brain in a range of neurodegenerative disorders may provide avenues for the development of novel strategies to improve the survival of targeted neurons in vivo.
The glial excitatory amino acid transporter 2 (EAAT2) mediates a majority of glutamate re-uptake in human CNS and, consequently, is associated with a variety of signaling and pathological processes. While our understanding of the function, mechanism and structure of this integral membrane protein is increasing, little if any mass spectrometric (MS) data is available for any of the EAATs specifically, and for only a few mammalian plasma membrane transporters in general. A protocol to express and purify functional EAAT2 in sufficient quantities to carry out MS-based peptide mapping as needed to study ligand-transporter interactions is described. A 6xHIS epitope was incorporated into the N-terminus of human EAAT2. The recombinant protein was expressed in high levels in mammalian HEK 293T cells, where it exhibited the pharmacological properties of the native transporter. EAAT2 was purified from isolated cell membranes in a single step using nickel affinity chromatography. In-gel and in-solution trypsin digestions were conducted on the isolated protein and then analyzed by MALDI-TOF and LC-MS/MS mass spectrometry. Overall, 89% sequence coverage of the protein was achieved with these methods. In particular, an 88 amino acid tryptic peptide covering the presumed substrate binding domains HP1, TMD7, HP2, and TMD8 domains of EAAT2 was also identified after N-deglycosylation. Beyond the specific applicability to EAAT2, this study provides an efficient, simple and scalable approach to express, purify, digest and characterize integral membrane transporter proteins by mass spectrometry.

The following essay provides a summary of a seminar given on the sixth of November, 2010 at the combined annual congress, held at Brussels of the Centro Studi Psichatrici Vrije Universiteit Brussel, Universit Catholique de Louvain &amp; the Bedfordshire Centre for Mental Health Research. The talk aimed to present a brief taster, assuming no prior knowledge, of adult neurogenesis, the formation of new nerve cells, in relation to the aetiology and treatment of depression. The talk begins with an introduction to the principles of adult neurogenesis: from initial investigations by Ramon y Cajal in the 19th century, resulting in a &quot;static brain hypothesis&quot;, to their subsequent challenge almost one hundred years later. The potential functional implications emerging, especially in relation to depression, are explored. The fascinating effects of corticosteroids and antidepressants are used as examples to explore the possible roles of neurogenesis that have led some to propose a neurogenic theory of depression. Arguments against this theory are then presented. Finally, a consideration of future opinion: could neurogenesis be less important in the aetiology of depression, but involved in its treatment - a property of antidepressant action rather than a central final aetiological pathway. In this young branch of neuroscience controversy abounds: our understanding of the process itself, its relations and most importantly its implications are all in their infancy. This has allowed for some of the most interesting debate of recent years as to the neurological basis and treatment of affective disorders.
Noradrenergic and HPA axis dysregulation may play a role in suicide risk. Studies of suicide risk have not found consistent relationship to the noradrenaline metabolite 3-methoxy-4-hydroxphenylglycol (MHPG) in the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF). Non-suppression in the dexamethasone test (DST) has been associated with increased risk of suicide in depressed patients. The study sample consisted of 51 mood disorder inpatients admitted to the Department of Psychiatry at the Karolinska University Hospital between 1980 and 2000. Patients underwent lumbar punction and DST and were followed up for the cause of death. The hypothesis was that both CSF MHPG and HPA axis dysregulation are associated with suicidal behaviour. Nine suicide victims had significantly lower CSF MHPG and baseline plasma cortisol than survivors. Using both CSF MHPG and baseline cortisol in ROC analysis for suicide prediction, the positive predictive value was 44% and the area under the curve was 0.88. In conclusion, lower CSF MHPG was associated with suicide risk. Furthermore these results suggest that combined measures of noradrenergic system and HPA axis function may offer better prediction of suicide risk.
Long-term changes in the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis as a result of early life stress could be related to the development of substance use disorders during adulthood. In this study, the neuroendocrine, physiologic (HR), and subjective responses to corticotropin releasing hormone (CRH) and the Trier Social Stress Task (TSST) in individuals with cocaine dependence, with (n=21)/without early life stress (n=21), non-dependent individuals with early life stress (n=22), and a control group were examined (n=21). CRH increased cortisol and ACTH levels in all groups. However, a significant effect of early life stress on ACTH was observed indicating that the increase in ACTH was greatest in subjects with a history of childhood stress. Post hoc analysis indicated the early life stress/non-cocaine dependent individuals exhibited significantly higher levels of ACTH as compared to the early life stress/cocaine-dependent group. Despite the elevated ACTH response there was no difference between the groups in the cortisol response to CRH. The TSST produced a significant elevation in ACTH and cortisol all study groups. No significant group differences were observed. The subjective stress and peak heart rate responses to the TSST were greatest in cocaine-dependent subjects without early life stress. In response to CRH, subjective stress and craving were positively correlated in cocaine-dependent subjects regardless of early life stress history, while stress and craving following the TSST were correlated only in cocaine-dependent subjects without a history of early life stress. Findings support previous studies demonstrating that subjects with a history of childhood adversity exhibit elevated ACTH and blunted cortisol levels in response to stress. In contrast, HR and subjective stress in response to the TSST were greatest in cocaine-dependent subjects without a history of early life stress, suggesting that childhood adversity may desensitize autonomic and subjective responding to social stress in adults with cocaine dependence.
To better characterize neurophysiologic processes underlying olfactory dysfunction in schizophrenia, nose-referenced 30-channel electroencephalogram was recorded from 32 patients and 35 healthy adults (18 and 18 male) during detection of hydrogen sulfide (constant-flow olfactometer, 200 ms unirhinal exposure). Event-related potentials (ERPs) were transformed to reference-free current source density (CSD) waveforms and analyzed by unrestricted Varimax-PCA. Participants indicated when they perceived a high (10 ppm) or low (50% dilution) odor concentration. Patients and controls did not differ in detection of high (23% misses) and low (43%) intensities and also had similar olfactory ERP waveforms. CSDs showed a greater bilateral frontotemporal N1 sink (305 ms) and mid-parietal P2 source (630 ms) for high than low intensities. N1 sink and P2 source were markedly reduced in patients for high intensity stimuli, providing further neurophysiological evidence of olfactory dysfunction in schizophrenia.

To study the mechanisms of coordination that are fundamental to successful interactions we carried out a joint finger tapping experiment in which pairs of participants were asked to maintain a given beat while synchronizing to an auditory signal coming from the other person or the computer. When both were hearing each other, the pair became a coupled, mutually and continuously adaptive unit of two &quot;hyper-followers&quot;, with their intertap intervals (ITIs) oscillating in opposite directions on a tap-to-tap basis. There was thus no evidence for the emergence of a leader-follower strategy. We also found that dyads were equally good at synchronizing with the irregular, but responsive other as with the predictable, unresponsive computer. However, they performed worse when the &quot;other&quot; was both irregular and unresponsive. We thus propose that interpersonal coordination is facilitated by the mutual abilities to (a) predict the other's subsequent action and (b) adapt accordingly on a millisecond timescale.
Work on facial expressions of emotions (Calder, Burton, Miller, Young, &amp; Akamatsu, [2001]) and emotionally inflected speech (Banse &amp; Scherer, [1996]) has successfully delineated some of the physical properties that underlie emotion recognition. To identify the acoustic cues used in the perception of nonverbal emotional expressions like laugher and screams, an investigation was conducted into vocal expressions of emotion, using nonverbal vocal analogues of the &quot;basic&quot; emotions (anger, fear, disgust, sadness, and surprise; Ekman &amp; Friesen, [1971]; Scott et al., [1997]), and of positive affective states (Ekman, [1992], [2003]; Sauter &amp; Scott, [2007]). First, the emotional stimuli were categorized and rated to establish that listeners could identify and rate the sounds reliably and to provide confusion matrices. A principal components analysis of the rating data yielded two underlying dimensions, correlating with the perceived valence and arousal of the sounds. Second, acoustic properties of the amplitude, pitch, and spectral profile of the stimuli were measured. A discriminant analysis procedure established that these acoustic measures provided sufficient discrimination between expressions of emotional categories to permit accurate statistical classification. Multiple linear regressions with participants' subjective ratings of the acoustic stimuli showed that all classes of emotional ratings could be predicted by some combination of acoustic measures and that most emotion ratings were predicted by different constellations of acoustic features. The results demonstrate that, similarly to affective signals in facial expressions and emotionally inflected speech, the perceived emotional character of affective vocalizations can be predicted on the basis of their physical features.
Peripheral cues trigger attention shifts, which facilitate perceptual processing and enhance visual awareness. However, this facilitation is superseded by an inhibition of return (IOR) effect, which biases attention away from the cued location. While the link between facilitatory effects of visual attention and awareness is well established, no study has reported negative effects of spatial cueing on visual awareness. This failure is puzzling, given the claim that attention is a necessary precondition for awareness. If attention is necessary for awareness, inhibiting attention should also inhibit awareness. This leads to a slightly counterintuitive prediction: Spatial cueing will inhibit awareness at long cue-target latencies. This study shows that subliminal peripheral cues exaggerate change blindness at long cue-change latencies, demonstrating that IOR can suppress visual awareness of changes and suggesting that IOR can directly affect the contents of consciousness.
Cys-loop receptors are membrane-spanning neurotransmitter-gated ion channels that are responsible for fast excitatory and inhibitory transmission in the peripheral and central nervous systems. The best studied members of the Cys-loop family are nACh, 5-HT3, GABAA and glycine receptors. All these receptors share a common structure of five subunits, pseudo-symmetrically arranged to form a rosette with a central ion-conducting pore. Some are cation selective (e.g. nACh and 5-HT3) and some are anion selective (e.g. GABAA and glycine). Each receptor has an extracellular domain (ECD) that contains the ligand-binding sites, a transmembrane domain (TMD) that allows ions to pass across the membrane, and an intracellular domain (ICD) that plays a role in channel conductance and receptor modulation. Cys-loop receptors are the targets for many currently used clinically relevant drugs (e.g. benzodiazepines and anaesthetics). Understanding the molecular mechanisms of these receptors could therefore provide the catalyst for further development in this field, as well as promoting the development of experimental techniques for other areas of neuroscience.In this review, we present our current understanding of Cys-loop receptor structure and function. The ECD has been extensively studied. Research in this area has been stimulated in recent years by the publication of high-resolution structures of nACh receptors and related proteins, which have permitted the creation of many Cys loop receptor homology models of this region. Here, using the 5-HT3 receptor as a typical member of the family, we describe how homology modelling and ligand docking can provide useful but not definitive information about ligand interactions. We briefly consider some of the many Cys-loop receptors modulators. We discuss the current understanding of the structure of the TMD, and how this links to the ECD to allow channel gating, and consider the roles of the ICD, whose structure is poorly understood. We also describe some of the current methods that are beginning to reveal the differences between different receptor states, and may ultimately show structural details of transitions between them.


Dr Roger A Barker is a University Reader in Clinical Neuroscience and Honorary Consultant in Neurology at the Addenbrooke's Hospital. He trained at Oxford and in London and has been in his current position for 10 years, having completed an MRC Clinician Scientist Fellowship prior to this. His main interests are in the neurodegenerative disorders of the nervous system, in particular Parkinson's disease and Huntington's disease. Dr Barker combines basic research investigating cell therapies to treat these conditions, with clinically based work on defining the natural history and heterogeneity of both diseases. He is a member of the CURE PD Research Advisory Panel and the MRC Stem Cell Liaison Committee. He is a member of the Regenerative Medicine editorial board and co-editor-in-chief of the journals ACNR and the Journal of Neurology.
Bisphenol-A (BPA) has estrogenic properties both in vitro and in vivo. We investigated its impacts upon uterine morphology and estrogen and progesterone receptors after injection on gestational days 1-4 in doses known to disrupt pregnancy. Blastocyst implantation was significantly reduced by doses of 6.75 and 10.125 mg/animal. Uterine luminal area expanded substantially in response to increasing doses of BPA. Luminal epithelial cell height increased following exposure to 10.125 mg/animal, whereas there were no differences in the number of corpora lutea among conditions. The proportion of cells staining positively for estrogen receptors was affected non-monotonically, showing highest levels at 3.375 mg/animal and lowest levels at 10.125 mg/animal. Similarly progesterone receptor expression measured through western blots related non-monotonically to dose, being highest at 3.375 mg/animal and diminishing with increasing dose. These results suggest that BPA exposure during early gestation acts at the uterus to disrupt intrauterine implantation, consistent with an estrogenic effect.
The current definition of Cerebral Visual Impairment (CVI) includes all visual dysfunctions caused by damage to, or malfunctioning of, the retrochiasmatic visual pathways in the absence of damage to the anterior visual pathways or any major ocular disease. CVI is diagnosed by exclusion and the existence of many different causes and symptoms make it an overall non-categorized group. To date, no discrimination is made within CVI based on types of perceptive visual dysfunctions. The aim of this review was to outline which perceptive visual dysfunctions are to be expected based on a number of etiologies of brain damage and brain development disorders with their onset in the pre-, peri- or postnatal period. For each period two etiologies were chosen as the main characteristic brain damage. For each etiology a main search was performed. The selection of the articles was based on the following criteria: age, etiology, imaging, central pathology and perceptive visual function test. The perceptive visual functions included for this review were object recognition, face recognition, visual memory, orientation, visual spatial perception, motion perception and simultaneous perception. Our search resulted in 11 key articles. A diversity of research history is performed for the selected etiologies and their relation to perceptive visual dysfunctions. Periventricular Leukomalacia (PVL) was most studied, whereas the main tested perceptive visual function was visual spatial perception. As a conclusion, the present status of research in the field of CVI does not allow to correlate between etiology, location and perceptive visual dysfunctions in children with brain damage or a brain development disorder. A limiting factor could be the small number of objective tests performed in children experiencing problems in visual processing. Based on recent insights in central visual information processing, we recommend an alternative approach for the definition of CVI that is based on functional visual processing, rather than anatomical landmarks. This could be of benefit in daily practice to diagnose CVI.
Oxygen consumption at peak physical exertion (VO(2) maximum) is the most widely used indicator of cardiorespiratory fitness. The purpose of this study was to compare two protocols for its estimation, cycle ergometer testing and the 20 m shuttle run, among children with and without probable developmental coordination disorder (pDCD). The shuttle run test was conducted during regular school hours, usually in the gymnasium. Children were then invited to a lab to complete the cycle ergometer protocol. Children were categorized as possible cases of DCD using the Movement-ABC-2. The analysis was performed using cut-points at both the 5th (n=38) and 15th (n=51) percentiles. The average age of children in the study was 12 years (SD=0.5). Children with pDCD had poorer VO(2) maximum when compared to typically developing children based on both the shuttle run and the cycle ergometer. The correlation between tests is in the moderate to high range (r=0.71, p&lt;0.001); 0.78 for girls, and 0.73 for boys. The overall difference in correlations between typically developing children and children with pDCD based on the 15th percentile was 0.12 (p=0.27). For children with pDCD based on the 5th percentile however, the difference between groups was larger (difference in r=0.25), and was statistically significant (p=0.02). In multivariate analyses, there was no difference in the effect of the shuttle run results in predicting VO(2) maximum obtained through the cycle ergometer test for children with pDCD compared to those without the condition. Regardless of the test, the patterns of association between children with pDCD and typically developing children were the same reinforcing the findings of previous field-based reports. Moderate to good correlations, at the 15th percentile cut-point, between tests suggests that the shuttle run test is a reliable substitute in this population when lab based assessments of VO(2) maximum are not feasible.
Co-existence of disorders--including attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder, oppositional defiant disorder, tic disorder, developmental coordination disorder, and autism spectrum disorder--and sharing of symptoms across disorders (sometimes referred to as comorbidity) is the rule rather than the exception in child psychiatry and developmental medicine. The acronym ESSENCE refers to Early Symptomatic Syndromes Eliciting Neurodevelopmental Clinical Examinations. It is a term I have coined to refer to the reality of children (and their parents) presenting in clinical settings with impairing child symptoms before age 3 (-5) years in the fields of (a) general development, (b) communication and language, (c) social inter-relatedness, (d) motor coordination, (e) attention, (f) activity, (g) behaviour, (h) mood, and/or (i) sleep. Children with major difficulties in one or more (usually several) of these fields, will be referred to and seen by health visitors, nurses, social workers, education specialists, pediatricians, GPs, speech and language therapists, child neurologists, child psychiatrists, psychologists, neurophysiologists, dentists, clinical geneticists, occupational therapists and physiotherapists, but, usually they will be seen only by one of these specialists, when they would have needed the input of two or more of the experts referred to. Major problems in at least one ESSENCE domain before age 5 years often signals major problems in the same or overlapping domains years later. There is no time to wait; something needs to be done, and that something is unlikely to be just in the area of speech and language, just in the area of autism or just in special education.
The purpose of the present study was to assess which types of neuropsychological deficits appear to be most commonly associated with autism spectrum disorders (ASD) and attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) in adults. The effect of the combination of ASD with ADHD (ASD/ADHD) was also studied. One hundred and sixty-one adult individuals (18 years of age) were included in the study. None had full scale IQ less than 71. The neuropsychological investigations included measures of intellectual ability, learning and memory, attention/executive function and theory of mind. The three diagnostic groups showed reduced performance in most cognitive domains. However, within these domains differentiating distinct features could be seen. The dysfunctions of the ASD/ADHD group cannot be seen as a summary of the dysfunctions found in the ASD and ADHD groups. The ADHD seemed to have the most severe neuropsychological impairments of the three groups. No domain-specific deficit typical of any of the diagnostic groups was found.
The most frequent clinical manifestation of borreliosis in Switzerland is erythema migrans, with about 2500 patients each year. Neurological manifestations are rare, mostly hyperalgesic radiculitis (Bannwarth syndrome), aseptic meningitis or cranial nerve involvement. We report the first Swiss patient with meningovasculitis due to neuroborreliosis, with recurrent multiple ischemic strokes in multiple vascular territories. The treatment with ceftriaxone stopped the progression, but the patient is still suffering from severe invalidating cognitive disorders. We also comment on the pathophysiology and review the literature of other clinical cases.

Progress in basic neurosciences and advances in technology in the last decades have contributed to clarification of neural mechanisms in behavior or cognition in health and disease. They have elaborated diagnosis and treatment of nervous diseases remarkably. Needs in neurologists in both primary and specific medical services are rapidly increasing, with aging society and progresses in medical care in Japan. Attraction of neurology for students and junior residents is a great concern of Japanese Society of Neurology. In the undergraduate education, recent achievement in basic neurosciences including neurogenetics, molecular cytology, physio-pathology and imaging technique should be taught comprehensively. In the early postgraduate course for two years, neurology is either elective or obligatory depending on the curriculum of training institutions. Work at the stroke care unit is strongly recommended in the course of emergency service, which is mandatory. Experiences in acute infectious diseases, in various stages of neurodegenerative diseases, in collaboration with other specialist doctors for systemic diseases including metabolic or collagen diseases, in collaboration with other medical personnel in care of dementia are all included in advanced stages of postgraduate education before board examination. In summary, studies for practical services as well as clinical researches, teaching of symptoms and signs based on neural functions, and socio-economical issues for chronic nervous diseases in aged society are important in the education in neurology.
The molecular pathogenesis of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is unclear. TAR DNA-binding proteins of 43 KDa (TDP-43) immunopositive cytoplasmic inclusions have been found in glia and neurons of ALS patients. The discovery of TDP-43 mutations in ALS patients indicates a direct role of TDP-43 in ALS. More than 30 mutations in the TDP-43 gene have been identified in patients with familial and sporadic ALS. ALS with a TDP-43 mutation is classified as ALS-10. The clinical features of ALS-10 are quite similar to those of sporadic ALS. Furthermore, the neuropathological findings for ALS-10, including TDP-43 immunopositive inclusions and Bunina bodies, are identical to those in sporadic ALS. Most of the mutations are located in the C-terminus of TDP-43, which may function as a binding domain of heterogeneous nuclear ribonucleoprotein. Frontotemporal lobar degeneration: FTLD and FTLD/MND (motor neuron disease) also have TDP-43 immunopositive inclusions. These disorders have been named as TDP-43 proteinopathy. However, patients with TDP-43 mutations rarely develop FTLD. Causative genes for familial FTLD and FTLD/MND are not linked to the TDP-43 gene. Thus, other factors may contribute to the TDP-43 pathology in these diseases. Further analysis is required to elucidate the molecular mechanism of ALS-10 and TDP-43 proteinopathy.

Here we propose multidimensional non-invasive imaging to understand the functional anatomy of neural circuits of the human brain. The multidimensional network imaging technique currently employs anatomical, functional and evoked connectivity imaging in various combinations. The anatomical and functional connectivity imaging can be achieved by the analysis of diffusion-weighted and functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI), respectively. New analysis techniques such as probabilistic diffusion tractography and tract-based statistics have refined the anatomical connectivity imaging, especially in combination with fMRI for setting up regions-of-interest. For the evoked connectivity imaging, brain stimulation technique such as transcranical magnetic stimulation (TMS) is performed during acquisition of fMRI and electrophysiology monitoring. Despite technical challenges, it is important to put information from these different modalities for network imaging together for fair understanding of human brain functions.






The strategies used in preclinical research in schizophrenia have evolved from experiments focused on the pharmacology of existing antipsychotic or psychotomimetic drugs to the broader study of pharmacological modulation of the neurobehavioral systems affected in schizophrenia. As an additional approach, neurodevelopmental, including genetic, manipulations have become increasingly used to model disease risk factors or to induce schizophrenia-relevant neuropathology. In the vast majority of these models, behavioral testing paradigms are used to test the effects of the drugs or developmental manipulations on psychomotor, cognitive and affective processes hypothesized to be affected in schizophrenia. The term &quot;animal model of schizophrenia&quot; is now applied to any combination of these strategies. The expansion in animal modeling strategies has led to significant innovation in identifying novel neural mechanisms that may contribute not only to psychosis but also to the cognitive and negative symptoms of schizophrenia. Yet one cost of innovation in the discovery of truly novel treatment targets is a higher risk for false positives--drugs that have shown promise in animal models but not in clinical trials. The goals of this commentary are to first provide a brief history and conceptualization of rodent models in preclinical research and then examine the issues to be addressed in order to increase the predictive power of animal models in the identification of new treatment targets and, ultimately, new effective treatments for schizophrenia.
A large association study by O'Donovan et al recently suggested that genetic variation in fibroblast growth factor receptor (FGFR) 2 increases the risk for developing schizophrenia. Fibroblast growth factors (FGFs) are part of the family of glial growth factors; they control the growth and patterning of specific brain structures and regulate the maintenance and repair of neuronal tissues. In addition, a direct interaction was recently found between FGFRs and adenosine A(2A) receptors, leading to corticostriatal plasticity and antagonizing the signaling pathway of dopamine D(2) receptors. These findings make FGFs plausible candidate genes for schizophrenia. Here, we review the role of FGFs in schizophrenia and combine evidence from studies on variations in FGF genes, RNA expression, protein levels, and FGF administration, as well as the effects of medication and environmental risk factors for schizophrenia. These data suggest that changes in the FGF system contribute to schizophrenia and possibly to a wider range of psychiatric disorders. The role of FGFs in schizophrenia and related disorders needs to be studied in more detail.

Deficits in executive functioning have been described as a core feature of schizophrenia and have been linked to patterns of fronto-temporo-limbic brain alterations. To date, such structure-cognition relationships have not been explored in a clinically defined at-risk mental state (ARMS) for psychosis using whole-brain neuroimaging techniques. Therefore, we used voxel-based morphometry in 40 ARMS and 30 matched healthy control (HC) individuals to investigate whether gray and white matter volumes (1) correlated with the performance in the Trail-Making Test B (TMT-B), an established measure of executive functioning, and (2) were volumetrically linked to the ventromedial prefrontal cortex (VMPFC), found to be associated with TMT-B in the ARMS during the first analysis step. We found the ARMS subjects to be specifically impaired in their TMT-B performance versus HC. Brain-cognition associations involving the insular cortices were observed in the HC, but not in the ARMS individuals. Conversely, TMT-B correlations in the VMPFC, the cerebellum, the fronto-callosal white matter were detected in the ARMS, but not the HC group. The VMPFC was linked to the temporo-limbic cortices in HC, whereas the connectivity pattern in the ARMS involved the left temporal and dorsolateral prefrontal cortex, the cerebellum, the right SMA and extended portions of the fronto-callosal white matter. These findings suggest that executive deficits are already present in the ARMS for psychosis and may be subserved by structurally altered networks of interconnected cortical and subcortical brain regions in line with the disconnectivity hypothesis of schizophrenia.
Studies suggest that the affective response is impaired in both schizophrenia and adolescent offspring of schizophrenia patients. Adolescent offspring of patients are developmentally vulnerable to impairments in several domains, including affective responding, yet the bases of these impairments and their relation to neuronal responses within the limbic system are poorly understood. The amygdala is the central region devoted to the processing of emotional valence and its sub-nuclei including the baso-lateral and centro-medial are organized in a relative hierarchy of affective processing. Outputs from the centro-medial nucleus converge on regions involved in the autonomous regulation of behavior, and outputs from the baso-lateral nucleus modulate the response of reward processing regions. Here using fMRI we assessed the intra-amygdala response to positive, negative, and neutral valenced faces in a group of controls (with no family history of psychosis) and offspring of schizophrenia parents (n=44 subjects in total). Subjects performed an affective continuous performance task during which they continually appraised whether the affect signaled by a face on a given trial was the same or different from the previous trial (regardless of facial identity). Relative to controls, offspring showed reduced activity in the left centro-medial nucleus to positively (but not negatively or neutral) valenced faces. These results were independent of behavioral/cognitive performance (equal across groups) suggesting that an impaired affective substrate in the intra-amygdala response may lie at the core of deficits of social behavior that have been documented in this population.



The aim of this study was to investigate whether kinematic proximal-to-distal sequencing (PDS) and speed-summation are common characteristics of both partial and full-swing shots in golf players of different skill levels and genders. A total of 45 golfers participated, 11 male tournament professionals, 21 male and 13 female elite amateurs. They performed partial shots with a wedge to targets at three submaximal distances, 40, 55 and 70 m, and full-swing shots with a 5 iron and a driver for maximal distance. Pelvis, upper torso and hand movements were recorded in 3D with an electromagnetic tracking system (Polhemus Liberty) at 240 Hz and the magnitude of the resultant angular velocity vector of each segment was computed. The results showed a significant proximal-to-distal temporal relationship and a concomitant successive increase in maximum (peak) segment angular speed in every shot condition for both genders and levels of expertise. A proximal-to-distal utilization of interaction torques is indicated. Using a common PDS movement strategy in partial and full-swing golf shots appears beneficial from mechanical and control points of view and could serve the purpose of providing both high speed and accuracy.
Periventricular white matter injury (PVWMI) in preterm infants is a leading cause of cerebral palsy. Mesenchymal stem cell (MSC) transplantation in experimental models of adult demyelinating conditions is reported to reduce neurological deficits so we investigated their potential for treating developmental PVWMI. Neonatal rat MSCs, when cultured and labeled in vitro with fluorescent, micrometer-sized paramagnetic iron oxide particles (MPIO), retained their differentiation potential. Rats received bilateral intracerebral injections of ibotenic acid at postnatal day 5 causing PVWMI-like lesions with localized hypomyelination and sensorimotor deficits. MPIO-labeled MSCs were transplanted near the lesion in the right hemisphere 1 day postlesioning. Animals receiving cell transplants showed significantly increased antimyelin immunoreactivity in the corpus callosum, and improved reaching and retrieval skills, compared to animals receiving conditioned medium only. In separate experiments, in vivo MRI demonstrated that MPIO-labeled cells migrated away from the injection site toward lesioned areas in both hemispheres, confirmed by microscopy postmortem, but double-labeling studies found little evidence of differentiation into neural phenotypes. MSC transplantation led to significantly more forebrain cell proliferation, assayed by bromodeoxyuridine incorporation, than in controls. MSC transplants may have been neuroprotective and indirectly contributed to brain repair.
Monoclonal antibodies are important tools for cancer therapy, however, three factors limit their effectiveness: toxicity, poor tumor penetration, and inability to cross the blood-brain barrier. This review discusses the emerging field of stem cell-mediated antibody delivery and how this approach may improve antibody therapy of cancer by overcoming these obstacles.



Postsynaptic density protein-95 (PSD-95) is hypothesized to control the excitatory-to-inhibitory ratio and plays an important role in the regulation of hippocampal synaptic plasticity, synaptogenesis, and learning and memory. In this report, we used immunoblotting to study the effects of aging and ovariectomy (OVX) on the expression of PSD-95 in the hippocampus of female rats. The results indicated that postnatal expression of hippocampal PSD-95 correlated with the fluctuation of circulating female sex hormones such as estrogen. Neonatal PSD-95 level was very low, but dramatically increased within the first month. The highest expression of PSD-95 was detected at postnatal day 30 (P30) and significantly decreased by 18 months. In the adult hippocampus, OVX significantly decreased PSD-95 expression within the first week, but it had recovered to adult levels 2 weeks later. Taken together, we conclude that circulating ovarian hormones may play a crucial role in the regulation of excitatory synapses within the hippocampus. Depletion of ovarian hormones can transiently and dramatically decrease the level of excitatory synapses for a limited time.
The 70-kDa mitochondrial heat shock protein, mortalin, is a ubiquitously expressed, multifunctional protein that is capable of binding the neurotransmitter, dopamine, within the brain. Dopamine dysregulation has been implicated in many of the abnormal neurological behaviors. Although studies have indicated that mortalin is differentially regulated in response to dopaminergic modulation, research has yet to elucidate the role of mortalin in the regulation of dopaminergic activity. This study seeks to investigate the role of mortalin in the regulation of dopamine-dependent behavior, specifically as it pertains to schizophrenia (SCZ). Mortalin expression was knocked down through the infusion of antisense oligodeoxynucleotide molecules into the medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC). Rats infused with mortalin antisense oligodeoxynucleotide molecules exhibited significant prepulse inhibition deficits, suggestive of defects in normal sensorimotor gating. Furthermore, mortalin misexpression within the mPFC was coupled to a significant increase in mortalin protein expression within the nucleus accumbens at the molecular level. These findings demonstrate that mortalin plays an essential role in the regulation of dopamine-dependent behavior and plays an even greater role in the pathogenesis of SCZ.
The protective actions of estrogen have been well evaluated in various models of neurodegeneration. These neuroprotective mechanisms may include a direct neuronal antiapoptotic effect as estrogen modulates actions of key regulators of the mitochondrial/intrinsic apoptotic cascade. We tested the ability of estrogen to protect against apoptotic signaling in cortical cell cultures exposed to Tat 1-86 (50 nM), and additionally, whether the beneficial actions of estrogen involved an estrogen receptor sensitive mechanism. We demonstrated that estrogen pretreatment significantly delayed Tat-induced cell death in primary cortical cultures. Pretreatment with 17-estradiol (10 nM) attenuated the increased expression of antiapoptotic protein Bcl-2, proapoptotic protein Bax and activation of caspases linked to mitochondrial apoptotic pathway following Tat exposure. In addition, select components of apoptotic pathway signaling appear more sensitive to estrogen receptor (ER) activation, as the addition of ER antagonist ICI 182780 reversed estrogen downregulation of Bax and caspase 3, while estrogen effects on Tat-induced Bcl-2 and caspase 9 expression were maintained. Moreover, the addition of preferential ER and ER antagonists (MPP dihydrochloride and PHTPP) indicated that estrogen effects on caspase 3 may be mediated by both receptor subtypes, whereas, was more involved in estrogen effects on Bax. Our data suggest that estrogen intervenes against HIV-1 Tat-induced cortical neuronal dysfunction via intersecting mitochondrial apoptotic pathway signaling in an ER-sensitive manner.
The 4G allele of the PAI-1 -675(4G/5G) insertion/deletion promoter polymorphism has been associated with elevated plasma levels of PAI-1 and an increased risk of myocardial infarction. However, this allele has also been associated with a reduced risk of ischaemic stroke. In the brain, PAI-1 is mainly produced by astrocytes, and can reduce the neurotoxic effects exerted by tissue-type plasminogen activator during pathophysiologic conditions. The aim of the present study was to investigate whether the PAI-1 -675(4G/5G) polymorphism and the linked -844A/G polymorphism affect transcriptional activity of the PAI-1 gene in human astrocytes. Haplotype chromatin immunoprecipitation (haploChIP) was used in order to quantify allele-specific promoter activity in heterozygous cells. Protein-DNA interactions were investigated by electrophoretic mobility shift assay (EMSA). A clear allele-specific difference in PAI-1 gene expression was observed in astrocytes, where the haplotype containing the 4G and the -844A alleles was associated with higher transcriptional activity compared to the 5G and -844G-containing haplotype. EMSA revealed an allele-specific binding of nuclear proteins to the 4G/5G site as well as to the -844A/G site. Supershift experiments identified specific binding of the transcription factors Elf-1 and Elk-1 to the -844G allele. The relative impact of the different sites on allele-specific PAI-1 promoter activity remains to be determined. We demonstrate that common polymorphisms within the PAI-1 promoter affect transcriptional activity of the PAI-1 gene in human astrocytes, thus providing a possible molecular genetic mechanism behind the association between PAI-1 promoter variants and ischaemic stroke.
Just about one and one-half centuries ago, Paul Broca identified the posterior third left frontal convolution of the human brain as a critical area for speech production. Although years of cerebrovascular accident localization studies partially confirmed Broca's claim, recent years have seen a clarification and expansion of the role Broca's area plays in serial processing of language and speech as well as a probable role in nonlinguistic processing. This article will review some of the more recent anatomical and physiological research, including lesion studies, imaging research, and interoperative electrocortical stimulation studies. The article will summarize the research on the role of the human inferior frontal gyrus in lexical, phonologic, and grammatical production, the so-called &quot;mirror mechanism&quot; and other aspects of cognitive processing and motor execution.

Several neurodegenerative diseases are characterized by the accumulation of misfolded and aggregated proteins, which lead to neurotoxicity. However, the nature of those toxic species is controversial. Developments in optical microscopy and live-cell imaging are essential in providing crucial insight into the molecular mechanisms involved. In particular, the technique of bimolecular fluorescence complementation (BiFC) represents a remarkable improvement for observing protein-protein interactions within living cells. Unlike other techniques, BiFC provides spatial and temporal resolution and can be carried out in a physiological environment. Among other applications, BiFC has been used to study molecular determinants of oligomerization in neurodegenerative disorders, thereby promising to unveil novel targets for therapeutics. We review the applicability of BiFC for investigating the molecular basis of neurodegenerative diseases associated with protein misfolding and aggregation.
Recent studies suggest that cross-frequency coupling (CFC) might play a functional role in neuronal computation, communication and learning. In particular, the strength of phase-amplitude CFC differs across brain areas in a task-relevant manner, changes quickly in response to sensory, motor and cognitive events, and correlates with performance in learning tasks. Importantly, whereas high-frequency brain activity reflects local domains of cortical processing, low-frequency brain rhythms are dynamically entrained across distributed brain regions by both external sensory input and internal cognitive events. CFC might thus serve as a mechanism to transfer information from large-scale brain networks operating at behavioral timescales to the fast, local cortical processing required for effective computation and synaptic modification, thus integrating functional systems across multiple spatiotemporal scales.
Cognitive neuroscientists increasingly recognize that continued progress in understanding human brain function will require not only the acquisition of new data, but also the synthesis and integration of data across studies and laboratories. Here we review ongoing efforts to develop a more cumulative science of human brain function. We discuss the rationale for an increased focus on formal synthesis of the cognitive neuroscience literature, provide an overview of recently developed tools and platforms designed to facilitate the sharing and integration of neuroimaging data, and conclude with a discussion of several emerging developments that hold even greater promise in advancing the study of human brain function.
Covalent modifications of intracellular proteins, such as phosphorylation, are generally thought to occur as secondary or tertiary responses to neurotransmitters, following the intermediation of membrane receptors and second messengers such as cyclic AMP. By contrast, the gasotransmitter nitric oxide directly S-nitrosylates cysteine residues in diverse intracellular proteins. Recently, hydrogen sulfide has been acknowledged as a gasotransmitter, which analogously sulfhydrates cysteine residues in proteins. Cysteine residues are also modified by palmitoylation in response to neurotransmitter signaling, possibly in reciprocity with S-nitrosylation. Neurotransmission also elicits sumoylation and acetylation of lysine residues within diverse proteins. This review addresses how these recently appreciated protein modifications impact our thinking about ways in which neurotransmission regulates intracellular protein disposition.
The extracellular matrix (ECM) of the central nervous system is well recognized as a migration and diffusion barrier that allows for the trapping and presentation of growth factors to their receptors at the cell surface. Recent data highlight the importance of ECM molecules as synaptic and perisynaptic scaffolds that direct the clustering of neurotransmitter receptors in the postsynaptic compartment and that present barriers to reduce the lateral diffusion of membrane proteins away from synapses. The ECM also contributes to the migration and differentiation of stem cells in the neurogenic niche and organizes the polarized localization of ion channels and transporters at contacts between astrocytic processes and blood vessels. Thus, the ECM contributes to functional compartmentalization in the brain.
Spinal and bulbar muscular atrophy is a hereditary motor neuron disease caused by trinucleotide repeat expansion in the androgen receptor gene. The disease mechanism probably involves a toxic gain of function in the mutant protein, because other mutations that cause a loss of androgen receptor function result in a different phenotype and the mutant protein is toxic in mouse models. In these models, the toxicity is ligand-dependent and is associated with protein aggregation, as well as altered transcriptional regulation, axonal transport and mitochondrial function. Various therapeutic approaches have shown efficacy in mouse models, including androgen reduction, heat shock protein 90 (HSP90) inhibition and insulin-like growth factor (IGF)-1 overexpression. Clinical trials of androgen-reducing agents have had mixed results, with indications of efficacy but no proof of clinically meaningful benefit to date. These clinical studies have established outcome measures for future trials of other agents that have been beneficial in animal studies.
Adenosine-to-inosine (A-to-I) RNA editing is a cotranscriptional or posttranscriptional gene regulatory mechanism that increases the diversity of the proteome in the nervous system. Recently, the transcript for GABA type A receptor subunit 3 was found to be subjected to RNA editing. The aim of this study was to determine if editing of the chicken 3 subunit transcript occurs in the retina and if the editing is temporally regulated during development. We also raised the question if editing of the 3 transcript was temporally associated with the suggested developmental shift from excitation to inhibition in the GABA system. The editing frequency was studied by using Sanger and Pyrosequencing, and to monitor the temporal aspects, we studied the messenger RNA expression of the GABAA receptor subunits and chloride pumps, known to be involved in the switch. The results showed that the chick 3 subunit was subjected to RNA editing, and its expression was restricted to cells in the inner nuclear and ganglion cell layer in the retina. The extent of editing increased during development (after embryonic days 8-9) concomitantly with an increase of expression of the chloride pump KCC2. Expression of several GABAA receptor subunits known to mediate synaptic GABA actions was upregulated at this time. We conclude that editing of the chick GABAA subunit 3 transcript in chick retina gives rise to an amino acid change that may be of importance in the switch from excitatory to inhibitory receptors.
Few aspects of human cognition are more personal than the choices we make. Our decisions - from the mundane to the impossibly complex - continually shape the courses of our lives. In recent years, researchers have applied the tools of neuroscience to understand the mechanisms that underlie decision making, as part of the new discipline of decision neuroscience. A primary goal of this emerging field has been to identify the processes that underlie specific decision variables, including the value of rewards, the uncertainty associated with particular outcomes, and the consequences of social interactions. Recent work suggests potential neural substrates that integrate these variables, potentially reflecting a common neural currency for value, to facilitate value comparisons. Despite the successes of decision neuroscience research for elucidating brain mechanisms, significant challenges remain. These include building new conceptual frameworks for decision making, integrating research findings across disparate techniques and species, and extending results from neuroscience to shape economic theory. To overcome these challenges, future research will likely focus on interpersonal variability in decision making, with the eventual goal of creating biologically plausible models for individual choice.
Suicide gene therapy with retroviral vector-producing cells was feasible as an adjuvant to the surgical resection of recurrent glioblastoma, although any benefit appeared to be marginal. Further evaluation of the therapeutic strategy with the vector-producing cells must incorporate improved delivery of vectors and transgenes to the target cells. We have previously demonstrated the ability of vector-producing tumor cells engineered by the adenovirus-retrovirus hybrid vector to destroy satellite tumor cells, although therapeutic efficacy for aggressive tumor has to be further evaluated by the systemic delivery of the vector-producing cells. Mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) should be an effective delivery vehicle to seek out tumor cells in vivo and transport cancer-killing gene or immune products with minimal rejection reaction by the host. We developed vector-producing tumor-tracking cells to improve suicide cancer gene therapy. Nucleofection was attempted to deliver retrovirus vector components into rodent MSCs. Athymic nude mice with subcutaneous 9L glioma were received vector-producing MSCs through the left ventricular cavity. Optical bioluminescence imaging in vivo revealed accumulation of the MSCs into the subcutaneous 9L tumors but not Rat-1 transplants. Consequently, the vector-producing MSCs significantly enhanced pro-drug killing of glioma cells compared to MSCs without ability to generate progeny virus. Our study demonstrated the effective MSCs-mediated tumor transduction with progeny vector production to improve suicide gene therapy. Although therapeutic benefit in the various orthotopic or metastatic tumor models has to be further validated, this transduction strategy would eradicate evasive tumors in situ.
Psychophysiological research focusing on child development and on child and adolescent psychiatric disorders has provided many important insights. The use of cognitive neuroscience methods along with the assessment of peripheral psychophysiological measures - particularly functional magnetic resonance imaging and electroencephalography reflecting brain activity - have advanced our understanding of the physiological basis of many cognitive processes such as attention, memory, learning, and language in the context of child development and psychiatric disorders. These insights are proving increasingly helpful when evaluating and advancing treatment. The following review introduces the reader to psychophysiological and particularly electrophysiological methods widely used in child and adolescent psychiatry research.
TRPP subfamily is an important member of transient receptor potential family. It has six transmembrane (TM) domains, a large extracellular loop between the first and second TM and 2-4 ankyrin repeats in the N terminal. TRPP subfamily includes TRPP2, TRPP3, TRPP5 etc. There are several differences in their structure, activation mode and function. TRPP subfamily is involved in many physiological mechanisms and its abnormal structure can lead to the formation of polycystic kidney. This subfamily is also closely related to gustation. In this review, we summarize recent research findings of TRPP subfamily and its association with polycystic kidney diseases.
In Alzheimer's disease (AD), premature demise of acetylcholine-producing neurons and the consequent decline of cholinergic transmission associate with the prominent cognitive impairments of affected individuals. However, the enzymatic activities of acetylcholinesterase (AChE) and butyrylcholinesterase (BChE) are altered rather late in the disease progress. This raised questions regarding the causal involvement of AChE and BChE in AD. Importantly, single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs), alternative splicing, and alternate promoter usage generate complex expression of combinatorial cholinesterase (ChE) variants, which called for testing the roles of specific variants in AD pathogenesis. We found accelerated amyloid fibril formation in engineered mice with enforced over-expression of the AChE-S splice variant which includes a helical C-terminus. In contrast, the AChE-R variant, which includes a naturally unfolded C-terminus, attenuated the oligomerization of amyloid fibrils and reduced amyloid plaque formation and toxicity. An extended N-terminus generated by an upstream promoter enhanced the damage caused by N-AChE-S, which in cell cultures induced caspases and GSK3 activation, tau hyperphosphorylation, and apoptosis. In the post-mortem AD brain, we found reduced levels of the neuroprotective AChE-R and increased levels of the neurotoxic N-AChE-S, suggesting bimodal contribution to AD progress. Finally, local unwinding of the -helical C-terminal BChE peptide and loss of function of the pivotal tryptophan at its position 541 impair amyloid fibril attenuation by the common BChE-K variant carrying the A539T substitution, in vitro. Together, our results point to causal yet diverse involvement of the different ChEs in the early stages of AD pathogenesis. Harnessing the neuroprotective variants while reducing the levels of damaging ones may hence underlie the development of novel therapeutics.
The core transcriptional regulatory circuitries are important for controlling stem cell self-renewal and differentiation. Nuclear receptors provide an ideal model to regulate gene expression in both ligand-dependent and ligand-independent manners. Recent studies of regulatory events by nuclear receptors in neural stem cells, embryonic stem cells, and induced pluripotent stem cells (iPSCs) provided unique insights into mechanisms of stem cell regulation and provided invaluable resources for regenerative medicine. Nuclear receptors have been shown to be key players in stem cell self-renewal, pluripotency, and reprogramming. We summarize recent progress of studies on nuclear receptors in stem cell field as well as the potential therapeutic implications of these nuclear receptors and their cognate ligands. These studies not only uncover molecular mechanisms of stem cell regulation, but also provide unique opportunities for drug discovery.
Tactile shape discrimination involves frontal other than somatosensory cortex (Palva et al., 2005 [48]), but it is unclear if this frontal activity is related to exploratory concomitants. In this study, we investigated topographical details of prefrontal, premotor, and parietal areas during passive tactile recognition of 2D geometrical shapes in conditions avoiding exploratory movements. Functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) was performed while the same wooden 2D geometrical shapes were blindly pressed on subjects' passive right palm in three conditions. In the RAW condition, shapes were pressed while subjects were asked to attend to the stimuli but were not trained to recognize them. After a brief training, in the SHAPE condition subjects were asked to covertly recognize shapes. In the RECOGNITION condition, they were asked to overtly recognize shapes, using response buttons with their opposite hand. Results showed that somatosensory cortex including contralateral SII, contralateral SI, and left insula was active in all conditions, confirming its importance in processing tactile shapes. In the RAW vs. SHAPE contrast, bilateral posterior parietal, insular, premotor, prefrontal, and (left) Broca's areas were more active in the latter. In the RECOGNITION, activation of (left) Broca's area correlated with correct responses. These results suggest that, even without exploratory movements, passive recognition of tactile geometrical shapes involves prefrontal and premotor as well as somatosensory regions. In this framework, Broca's area might be involved in a successful selection and/or execution of the correct responses.
Complex network analysis is currently employed in neuroscience research to describe the neuron pathways in the brain with a small number of computable measures that have neurobiological meaning. Connections in biological neural networks might fluctuate over time; therefore, surveillance can provide a more useful picture of brain dynamics than the standard approach that relies on a static graph to represent functional connectivity. Using the application of well-known measures of neural synchrony over short segments of brain activity in a time series, we attempted a time-dependent characterization of brain connectivity by investigating functional segregation and integration. In our implementation, a frequency-dependent time window was employed and regularly spaced (defined as overlapping segments), and a novel, parameter-free method was introduced to derive the required adjacency matrices. The resulting characterization was compared against conventional approaches that rely on static and time-evolving graphs, which are constructed from non-overlapping segments of arbitrarily defined durations. Our approach is demonstrated using EEG recordings during mental calculations. The derived consecutive values of network metrics were then compared with values from randomized networks. The results revealed the dynamic small-world character of the brain's functional connectivity, which otherwise can be hidden from estimators that rely on either long or stringent time-windows. Moreover, by involving a network-metric time series (NMTS) in a summarizing procedure that was based on replicator dynamics, consistent hubs that facilitated communication in the underlying networks were identified. Finally, the scale-free character of brain networks was also demonstrated based on the significant edges selected with the introduced approach.
Social anxiety (SA) has as its main feature the fear of social situations, being characterized as social phobia or social anxiety disorder when functional impairment emerges as a result of that fear. Although the recognition of the condition has increased in recent years, it is believed that many patients and physicians still take the symptoms of the disorder for personality traits with no need for treatment. There is evidence that people with SA display abnormal patterns of facial emotion processing that could account for the onset and maintenance of the disorder. The objective of this review is to describe, compare, and discuss the methods used to study facial emotion processing in SA with an emphasis on the tasks and stimuli employed. Articles were searched for on online scientific databases. Forty research articles were selected according to the inclusion and exclusion criteria established. The articles were read and information from them was gathered on a comparative table for analysis. Evidence available to date suggests that SA individuals have abnormal patterns of facial information processing characterized by a bias for negative emotions. The results of the articles analyzed have a high degree of concordance, in spite of the variety of tasks and stimuli employed. The similarity between results from non-clinical samples with SA and patients affected by social phobia speaks in favor of the current view that SA occurs as a continuum of severity, rather than a clearly circumscribed nosological entity.
Congenital muscular torticollis (CMT) is the most common cause of torticollis in childhood. This condition is usually recognized and successfully treated in infancy, but may persist in adulthood, particularly if not treated. In adult patients, CMT can be differentiated from idiopathic cervical dystonia by the frequent association with facial asymmetry, presence of a cord-like sternocleiodmastoid muscle (SCM), absence of head tremor, lack of sensory trick, and head tilt since infancy. We describe 3 patients with persistent CMT, who were successfully treated with botulinum toxin injections with long lasting benefit.
Seven patients with a diagnosis of Parkinson's disease (PD) and pathological gambling (PG) and 7 PD patients without PG were investigated by functional MRI and a block-design experiment with gambling-related visual cues alternating with neutral stimuli and rest periods. Compared with PD/non-PG, in PD/PG patients, several areas of increased cue-related blood oxygen level dependent (BOLD)-response were observed including bilateral anterior cingulate cortex, medial and superior frontal gyri, and precuneus, right inferior parietal lobule, and ventral striatum. The over activation of cingulate cortex and ventral striatum in PD/PG patients after the craving task is similar to that reported in addicted patients, whereas the activation of the parietal structures is probably related to the attentional network.
Progressive supranuclear palsy (PSP) rarely shows cerebellar signs and symptoms even though the cerebellar dentate nuclei are involved pathologically. This study evaluates cerebellar function using transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) to determine whether subclinical cerebellar involvement is present in PSP patients. We studied 11 patients with PSP, 11 patients with Parkinson's disease (PD), and 10 age-matched controls. Patients were examined with their usual medications and in their relative on state. Motor evoked potentials (MEPs) were recorded from the hand muscle. Cerebellar function was evaluated using suppressive effects of TMS over the cerebellum on MEPs elicited by TMS over the contralateral motor cortex, which we call cerebellar inhibition (CBI). Interstimulus intervals (ISIs) of 4 to 8 ms were used, and the time course of CBI was analyzed. The CBI was reduced in PSP patients. By contrast, the CBI was normal in PD patients in their on state. Although the CBI in their off state should be examined in future studies, the results described herein suggest that Purkinje cells or the dentato-thalamo-cortical pathway assessed by CBI is involved in PSP. Our results are compatible with the pathological findings showing severe dentate nucleus degeneration in PSP patients.
Changes in stride characteristics and gait rhythmicity characterize gait in Parkinson's disease and are widely believed to contribute to falls in this population. However, few studies have examined gait in PD patients who fall. This study reports on the complexities of walking in PD patients who reported falling during a 12-month follow-up. Forty-nine patients clinically diagnosed with idiopathic PD and 34 controls had their gait assessed using three-dimensional motion analysis. Of the PD patients, 32 (65%) reported at least one fall during the follow-up compared with 17 (50%) controls. The results showed that PD patients had increased stride timing variability, reduced arm swing and walked with a more stooped posture than controls. Additionally, PD fallers took shorter strides, walked slower, spent more time in double-support, had poorer gait stability ratios and did not project their center of mass as far forward of their base of support when compared with controls. These stride changes were accompanied by a reduced range of angular motion for the hip and knee joints. Relative to walking velocity, PD fallers had increased mediolateral head motion compared with PD nonfallers and controls. Therefore, head motion could exceed &quot;normal&quot; limits, if patients increased their walking speed to match healthy individuals. This could be a limiting factor for improving gait in PD and emphasizes the importance of clinically assessing gait to facilitate the early identification of PD patients with a higher risk of falling.
The aim of this article is to test the feasibility, in early Parkinson's disease (PD), of an overnight switch from immediate-release (IR) pramipexole to a new once-daily extended-release (ER) formulation. Nonfluctuating patients on pramipexole IR three-times daily, alone or with levodopa, for early PD were randomly switched overnight to double-blind IR three-times daily (N = 52) or ER once-daily (N = 104) at initially unchanged daily dosage. Successful switching (defined as no worsening &gt;15% of baseline UPDRS II+III score and no drug-related adverse event withdrawal) was assessed at 9 weeks, after optional dosage adjustments (primary endpoint), and at 4 weeks, before adjustment. Other secondary endpoints included adjusted mean changes from baseline in UPDRS scores and proportion of responders based on Clinical or Patient Global Impression (CGI/PGI). Absolute difference between percentage of successful switch to ER versus IR was tested for ER noninferiority, defined as a 95% confidence-interval lower bound not exceeding -15%. At 9 weeks, 84.5% of the ER group had been successfully switched, versus 94.2% for IR. Noninferiority was not demonstrated, with a difference of -9.76% (95% CI: [-18.81%, +1.66%]). At 4 weeks, 81.6% of the ER group had been successfully switched, versus 92.3% for IR, a difference of -10.75% (95% CI: [-20.51%, +1.48%]). UPDRS changes and CGI/PGI analyses showed no differences between the groups. Both formulations were safe and well tolerated. Pramipexole ER was not equivalent to IR, but the difference was marginal. The fact that &gt;80% of the patients successfully switched overnight at unchanged dosage shows that this practice was feasible in most patients.
Magnetic resonance (MRI) and diffusion tensor imaging (DTI) data were acquired in 13 Alzheimer's disease (AD) patients, 15 elderly alcoholics, and 32 elderly controls. Midsagittal area, length, dorsoventral height, fractional anisotropy (FA), and mean diffusivity (MD) of the total corpus callosum and volume of the lateral ventricles were measured; area, FA, and MD were also determined for the callosal genu, body, and splenium. On DTI, both patient groups had lower FA and higher MD than controls in all callosal regions. On MRI, both patient groups had smaller genu than controls; additional size deficits were present in the alcoholism group's callosal body and the AD group's splenium. The callosal arch was higher in the AD but not the alcoholic group compared with controls. The two patient groups had larger ventricles than controls, and the AD group had larger ventricles than the alcoholic group. Callosal area correlated with its height, and callosal FA and MD correlated with ventricular volume in AD, whereas callosal area correlated only with FA in alcoholics. In AD, the disruption of the callosal integrity, which was associated with distorted callosal shape, was related to ventricular dilation, which has been shown in twin studies to be under a multitude of genetic, polygenetic, and environmental influences. Conversely, in alcoholism, disruption of callosal microstructural integrity was related to shrinkage of the corpus callosum itself.
In view of the co-distribution of dopamine D(L)R and 5-hydroxytryptamine 5-HT(A) receptors (D(L)R and 5-HT(A)R, respectively) within inter alia regions of the dorsal and ventral striatum and their role as a target of antipsychotic drugs; in this study we assessed the potential existence of D(L)R-5-HT(A)R heteromers in living cells and the functional consequences of this interaction. Thus, by means of a proximity-based bioluminescence resonance energy transfer (BRET) approach we demonstrated that the D(L)R and the 5-HT(A)R form stable and specific heteromers when expressed in HEK293T mammalian cells. Furthermore, when the D(L)R-5-HT(A)R heteromeric signaling was analyzed we found that the 5-HT(A)R-mediated phospholipase C (PLC) activation was synergistically enhanced by the concomitant activation of the D(L)R as shown in a NFAT-luciferase reporter gene assay and a specific and significant rise of the intracellular calcium levels were observed when both receptors were simultaneously activated. Conversely, when the D(2L)R-mediated adenylyl cyclase (AC) inhibition was assayed we showed that costimulation of D(L)R and 5-HT(A)R within the heteromer led to inhibition of the D(L)R functioning, thus suggesting the existence of a 5-HT(A)R-mediated D(L)R trans-inhibition phenomenon. Finally, a bioinformatics study reveals that the triplet amino acid homologies LLT (Leu-Leu-Thr) and AIS (Ala-Ile-Ser) in TM1 and TM3, respectively of the DR-5-HT(A)R may be involved in the receptor interface. Overall, the presence of the D(L)R-5-HT(A)R heteromer in discrete brain regions is postulated based on the existence of D(L)R-5-HT(A) receptor-receptor interactions in living cells and their codistribution inter alia in striatal regions. Possible novel therapeutic strategies for treatment of schizophrenia should be explored by targeting this heteromer.
Alterations in synapse number and morphology are associated with devastating psychiatric and neurologic disorders. In this issue of Cell, Margolis etal. (2010) show that the RhoA-guanine exchange factor (GEF) Ephexin5 limits the numbers of excitatory synapses that neurons receive, thus identifying a new mechanism controlling synaptogenesis.

Parkinson's disease (PD) is the most common form of movement disorder and affects approximately 4% of the population aged over 80 years old. Currently, PD cannot be prevented or cured, and no single diagnostic biomarkers are available. Notably, recent studies suggest that two familial PD-linked molecules, -synuclein and DJ-1, are present in cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) and that their levels may be altered during the progression of PD. In this regard, sensitive and accurate methods for evaluation of -synuclein and DJ-1 levels in the CSF and blood have been developed, and the results suggest that the levels of both molecules are significantly decreased in the CSF in patients with PD compared with age-matched controls. Furthermore, specific detection and quantification of neurotoxic oligometric forms of -synuclein in the blood using enzyme-linked immunosorbent assays might be expected as potential peripheral biomarkers for PD, although further validation is required. Currently, neither -synuclein nor DJ-1 is satisfactory as a single biomarker for PD, but combinatory evaluation of these biological fluid molecules with other biomarkers and imaging techniques may provide reliable information for diagnosis of PD.
Maurocalcine has been the first demonstrated animal toxin acting as a cell-penetrating peptide. Although it possesses competitive advantages, its use as a cell-penetrating peptide (CPP) requires that analogues be developed that lack its characteristic pharmacological activity on ryanodine-sensitive calcium channels without affecting its cell-penetrating and vector efficiencies. Here, we present the synthesis, three-dimensional (1)H NMR structure, and activity of D-maurocalcine. We demonstrate that it possesses all of the desired features for an excellent CPP: preserved structure, lack of pharmacological action, conserved vector properties, and absence of cell toxicity. This is the first report of a folded/oxidized animal toxin in its D-diastereomer conformation for use as a CPP. The protease resistance of this new peptide analogue, combined with its efficient cell penetration at concentrations devoid of cell toxicity, suggests that D-maurocalcine should be an excellent vector for in vivo applications.
Rapamycin, an inhibitor of the mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR) kinase, has attracted interest as a possible prophylactic for post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD)-associated fear memories. We report here that although rapamycin (40 mg/kg, i.p.) disrupted the consolidation and reconsolidation of fear-potentiated startle paradigm to a shock-paired context, it did not disrupt startle increases to a 4-sec odor cue, even though post-training increases in amygdala mTOR activity were prevented by rapamycin (also 40 mg/kg, i.p.). Thus, while rapamycin may prove useful in retarding the development of some PTSD-associated memories, its relative ineffectiveness against cued fear memories may limit its clinical usefulness.
Isotretinoin, a drug used for moderate to severe acne, has been repeatedly associated with various psychiatric complications, although a definitive causal relationship has not been established to date. This case report describes a 25-year-old male who developed obsessive-compulsive disorder at the age of 23 years following isotretinoin treatment for acne (10-20 mg/day) since the age of 16 years. Although standard treatment for obsessive-compulsive disorder caused mood swings, the combination of fluvoxamine 300 mg/day and olanzapine 15 mg/day significantly improves the clinical picture. Although rare, severe adulthood psychiatric complications may occur following isotretinoin treatment, requiring management which is individually tailored to the patient.
We have recently reported the importance of spinal rapamycin-sensitive pathways in maintaining persistent pain-like states. A descending facilitatory drive mediated through spinal 5-HT3 receptors (5-HT3Rs) originating from superficial dorsal horn NK1-expressing neurons and that relays through the parabrachial nucleus and the rostroventral medial medulla to act on deep dorsal horn neurons is known be important in maintaining these pain-like states. To determine if spinal rapamycin-sensitive pathways are activated by a descending serotonergic drive, we investigated the effects of spinally administered rapamycin on responses of deep dorsal horn neurons that had been pre-treated with the selective 5-HT3R antagonist ondansetron. We also investigated the effects of spinally administered cell cycle inhibitor (CCI)-779 (a rapamycin ester analogue) on deep dorsal horn neurons from rats with carrageenan-induced inflammation of the hind paw. Unlike some other models of persistent pain, this model does not involve an altered 5-HT3R-mediated descending serotonergic drive. We found that the inhibitory effects of rapamycin were significantly reduced for neuronal responses to mechanical and thermal stimuli when the spinal cord was pre-treated with ondansetron. Furthermore, CCI-779 was found to be ineffective in attenuating spinal neuronal responses to peripheral stimuli in carrageenan-treated rats. Therefore, we conclude that 5-HT3R-mediated descending facilitation is one requirement for activation of rapamycin-sensitive pathways that contribute to persistent pain-like states.

Congenital disorder of glycosylation type IIc (CDG IIc) is characterized by mental retardation, slowed growth and severe immunodeficiency, attributed to the lack of fucosylated glycoproteins. While impaired Notch signaling has been implicated in some aspects of CDG IIc pathogenesis, the molecular and cellular mechanisms remain poorly understood. We have identified a zebrafish mutant slytherin (srn), which harbors a missense point mutation in GDP-mannose 4,6 dehydratase (GMDS), the rate-limiting enzyme in protein fucosylation, including that of Notch. Here we report that some of the mechanisms underlying the neural phenotypes in srn and in CGD IIc are Notch-dependent, while others are Notch-independent. We show, for the first time in a vertebrate in vivo, that defects in protein fucosylation leads to defects in neuronal differentiation, maintenance, axon branching, and synapse formation. Srn is thus a useful and important vertebrate model for human CDG IIc that has provided new insights into the neural phenotypes that are hallmarks of the human disorder and has also highlighted the role of protein fucosylation in neural development.

Neurophysiological and behavioral reports converge to suggest that monocular neurons in the primary visual cortex are biased toward low spatial frequencies, while binocular neurons favor high spatial frequencies. Here we tested this hypothesis with functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI). Human participants viewed flickering gratings at one of two spatial frequencies presented to either the left or the right eye, and judged which of the two eyes was being stimulated (utrocular discrimination). Using multivoxel pattern analysis we found that local spatial patterns of signals in primary visual cortex (V1) allowed successful decoding of the eye-of-origin. Decoding was above chance for low but not high spatial frequencies, confirming the presence of a bias reported by animal studies in human visual cortex. Behaviorally, we found that reliable judgment of the eye-of-origin did not depend on spatial frequency. We further analyzed the mean response in visual cortex to our stimuli and revealed a weak difference between left and right eye stimulation. Our results are thus consistent with the interpretation that participants use overall levels of neural activity in visual cortex, perhaps arising due to local luminance differences, to judge the eye-of-origin. Taken together, we show that it is possible to decode eye-specific voxel pattern information in visual cortex but, at least in healthy participants with normal binocular vision, these patterns are unrelated to awareness of which eye is being stimulated.


Acupuncture has been used for analgesia, for treating visceral function disorders and for improving motor functions. It is well established that stimulation of the skin and muscles, either electrically or with noxious or non-noxious stimuli, induces a variety of somato-motor and autonomic responses. This strongly suggests that acupuncture acts by exciting cutaneous and/or muscular afferent nerve fibers. A question of considerable scientific and practical interest is what kinds of somatic afferent fibers are stimulated by acupuncture and are involved in its effects. There are several types of afferent fiber: thick myelinated A and A (group I and II), thin myelinated A (group III) and thinner unmyelinated C (group IV) fibers. In recent studies we have tried to establish which ones of these types of somatic afferent fiber are stimulated by acupuncture. In this article we first review the experimental evidence showing that the effects of acupuncture are mediated by the activation of afferent nerve fibers innervating the skin and muscles. Secondly, we discuss what types of afferent nerve fiber are activated by electrical acupuncture, and what types are involved in its effects on somato-motor functions and on visceral functions. Finally, we present some new findings based on recordings from single afferent nerve fibers excited by manual acupuncture.
We briefly review our recent studies on the neural mechanisms of the reflex effects of acupuncture-like stimulation on heart rate in rats. In pentobarbital anesthetized rats, acupuncture-like stimulation of one of various segmental areas of the body (forelimb, chest, abdomen, hindlimb) invariably induces a decrease in heart rate. In the case of the hindlimb, the effect can be produced by stimulation of the muscles alone but not of skin alone, and is abolished by severance of the hindlimb somatic nerves. Electrical stimulation of groups III and IV nerve fibers (in the tibial nerve) decreases heart rate. Decrease in heart rate by acupuncture-like stimulation of a hindlimb is accompanied by a decrease in cardiac sympathetic nerve activity, and is abolished by cardiac sympathectomy but not by vagotomy. High spinal cord transection or infusion of the GABA(A) receptors antagonist, bicuculline, into the cisterna magna is effective in disrupting the reflex bradycardia. Opioid receptor blockade does not disrupt the reflex arc. We conclude that the reflex pathway involved in the decrease of heart rate by acupuncture-like stimulation comprises groups III and IV muscle afferent nerves whose activation stimulates GABAergic neurons in the brainstem and inhibits sympathetic outflow to the heart. When the sympathetic tone is high due to hypercapnia, the induced reduction in both cardiac sympathetic nerve activity and heart rate is not augmented, suggesting that the magnitude of sympatho-inhibitory response to acupuncture-like stimulation does not depend on pre-existing sympathetic tone.
The use of acupuncture to treat reproductive dysfunction has not been well investigated. Only a few clinical studies have been reported, most of which are flawed by poor design and a lack of valid outcome measures and diagnostic criteria, making the results difficult to interpret. Experimental studies, however, show that acupuncture has substantial effects on reproductive function. Here we review the possible mechanisms of action of acupuncture on the reproductive system and its effects on reproductive dysfunction, focusing in particular on polycystic ovary syndrome, the most common endocrine and metabolic disorder in women. Clinical and experimental evidence demonstrates that acupuncture is a suitable alternative or complement to pharmacological induction of ovulation, without adverse side effects. Clearly, acupuncture modulates endogenous regulatory systems, including the sympathetic nervous system, the endocrine system, and the neuroendocrine system. Randomized clinical trials are warranted to further evaluate the clinical effects of acupuncture in reproductive disorders.

It is largely accepted that neurogenesis in the adult brain decreases with age and reduced levels of local neurotrophic support is speculated to be a contributing factor. Among neurotrophic factors involved on neurogenesis, we focused our attention on the neurotrophic system fibroblast growth factor-2 (FGF-2) and its receptor FGFR1, a potent modulator of precursor cell proliferation. In the present work, we aimed to analyse if potential age-dependent changes of the FGF-2/FGFR1 neurotrophic system may give account for the age-dependent decline of precursor cell proliferation in the neurogenic region of the subventricular zone (SVZ) in the rat brain. Using in situ hybridization and western blotting procedures we examined FGF-2 and FGFR1 expression levels in the SVZ of 20-month-old rats as compared to young adult 3-month-old rats. The results showed that during aging the FGF-2 and its receptor expression levels, both as mRNA and protein, were unchanged in the SVZ. The levels of phosphorylated FGFR1 form did not show significant variations suggesting that also the level of receptor activation does not change during aging. No changes were also observed in the phosphorylation of two FGFR1 related proteins involved in intracellular signaling, the canonical extracellular signal-regulated kinase Erk1/2 and the phospholipase-C1. Additionally, we could show that also the proliferation rate of stem cells does not change during aging. Taken together, our results show that FGF-2/FGFR1 neurotrophic system expression level and its basal activation do not account for the age-dependent decline of precursor cell proliferation in the rat brain.
GPR177, the mammalian ortholog of Drosophila Wntless/Evi/Sprinter, was recently identified as a novel mu-opioid receptor (MOR) interacting protein. GPR177 is a trans-membrane protein pivotal to mediating the secretion of Wnt signaling proteins. Wnt proteins, in turn, are essential in regulating neuronal development, a phenomenon inhibited upon chronic exposure to MOR agonists such as morphine and heroin. We previously showed that GPR177 and MOR are co-localized in the mouse dorsolateral striatum; however, the nature of this interaction was not fully elucidated. Therefore, in the present study, we examined cellular substrates for interactions between GPR177 and MOR using a combined immunogold-silver and peroxidase detection approach in coronal sections in the dorsolateral segment of the striatum. Semi-quantitative analysis of the ultrastructural distribution of GPR177 and MOR in striatal somata and in dendritic processes showed that, of the somata and dendritic processes exhibiting GPR177, 32% contained MOR immunolabeling while for profiles exhibiting MOR, 37% also contained GPR177 immunoreactivity. GPR177-labeled particles were localized predominantly along both the plasma membrane and within the cytoplasm of MOR-labeled dendrites. Somata and dendritic processes that contained both GPR177 and MOR more often received symmetric (inhibitory-type) synapses from unlabeled axon terminals. To further define the phenotype of GPR177 and MOR-containing cellular profiles, triple immunofluorescence detection showed that GPR177 and MOR are localized in neurons containing the opioid peptide, enkephalin, within the dorsolateral striatum. The results provide an anatomical substrate for interactions between MOR and its interacting protein, GPR177, in striatal opioid-containing neurons that may underlie the morphological alterations produced in neurons by chronic opiate use.
We performed this study to understand the anatomical substrates of parabrachial nucleus (PBN) modulation of orexin (ORX)-containing neurons in the hypothalamus. After biotinylated dextranamine (BDA) injection into the lateral PBN and immunostaining of ORX-containing neurons in the rat, the prominent overlap of the distribution field of the BDA-labeled fibers and that of the ORX-immunoreactive (ir) neurons was found in the lateralmost part of the dorsomedial nucleus and adjacent dorsal perifornical area (this overlapping field was referred to as &quot;suprafornical area&quot; in the present study), and the labeled axon terminals made asymmetrical synaptic contacts with somata and dendrites of the ORX-ir neurons. We further revealed that almost all the &quot;suprafornical area&quot;-projecting lateral PBN neurons were positive for vesicular glutamate transporter 2 mRNA and very few of them were positive for glutamic acid decarboxylase 67 mRNA. The present data suggest that ORX-containing neurons in the &quot;suprafornical area&quot; may be under the excitatory influence of the glutamatergic lateral PBN neurons probably for the regulation of arousal and waking.
Dynamic aspects of the propagation of epileptiform activity have so far received little attention. With the aim of providing new insights about the spatial features of the propagation of epileptic seizures in the nervous system, we studied in vitro the initiation and propagation of traveling epileptiform waves of electrophysiological activity in the hippocampus by means of substrate three-dimensional microelectrode arrays (MEAs) for extracellular measurements. Pharmacologically disinhibited hippocampal slices spontaneously generate epileptiform bursts mostly originating in CA3 and propagating to CA1. Our study specifically addressed the activity-dependent changes of the propagation of traveling electrophysiological waves in organotypic hippocampal slices during epileptiform discharge and in particular our question is: what happens to the epileptic signals during their propagation through the slice? Multichannel data analysis enabled us to quantify an activity-dependent increase in the propagation velocity of spontaneous bursts. Moreover, through the evaluation of the coherence of the signals, it was possible to point out that only the lower-frequency components (&lt;95Hz) of the electrical activity are completely coherent with respect to the activity originating in the CA3, while components at higher frequencies lose the coherence, possibly suggesting that the cellular mechanism mediating propagation of electrophysiological activity becomes ineffective for those firing rates exceeding an upper bound or that some noise of neuronal origin was added to the signal during propagation.
Spinal Muscular Atrophy (SMA) is caused by diminished function of the Survival of Motor Neuron (SMN) protein, but the molecular pathways critical for SMA pathology remain elusive. We have used genetic approaches in invertebrate models to identify conserved SMN loss of function modifier genes. Drosophila melanogaster and Caenorhabditis elegans each have a single gene encoding a protein orthologous to human SMN; diminished function of these invertebrate genes causes lethality and neuromuscular defects. To find genes that modulate SMN function defects across species, two approaches were used. First, a genome-wide RNAi screen for C. elegans SMN modifier genes was undertaken, yielding four genes. Second, we tested the conservation of modifier gene function across species; genes identified in one invertebrate model were tested for function in the other invertebrate model. Drosophila orthologs of two genes, which were identified originally in C. elegans, modified Drosophila SMN loss of function defects. C. elegans orthologs of twelve genes, which were originally identified in a previous Drosophila screen, modified C. elegans SMN loss of function defects. Bioinformatic analysis of the conserved, cross-species, modifier genes suggests that conserved cellular pathways, specifically endocytosis and mRNA regulation, act as critical genetic modifiers of SMN loss of function defects across species.
The pathology of many neurodegenerative diseases is characterized by the accumulation of misfolded and aggregated proteins in various cell types and regional substructures throughout the central and peripheral nervous systems. The accumulation of these aggregated proteins signals dysfunction of cellular protein homeostatic mechanisms such as the ubiquitin/proteasome system, autophagy, and the chaperone network. Although there are several published studies in which transcriptional profiling has been used to examine gene expression in various tissues, including tissues of neurodegenerative disease models, there has not been a report that focuses exclusively on expression of the chaperone network. In the present study, we used the Allen Brain Atlas online database to analyze chaperone expression levels. This database utilizes a quantitative in situ hybridization approach and provides data on 270 chaperone genes within many substructures of the adult mouse brain. We determined that 256 of these chaperone genes are expressed at some level. Surprisingly, relatively few genes, only 30, showed significant variations in levels of mRNA across different substructures of the brain. The greatest degree of variability was exhibited by genes of the DnaJ co-chaperone, Tetratricopeptide repeat, and the HSPH families. Our analysis provides a valuable resource towards determining how variations in chaperone gene expression may modulate the vulnerability of specific neuronal populations of mammalian brain.
Spatial pooling is often considered synonymous with averaging (or other statistical combinations) of local information contained within a complex visual image. We have recently shown, however, that spatial pooling of motion signals is better characterized in terms of optimal decoding of neuronal populations rather than image statistics (Webb et al., 2007). Here we ask which computations guide the spatial and temporal pooling of local orientation signals in human vision. The observers' task was to discriminate which of two texture patterns had a more clockwise global orientation. Standard textures had a common orientation; comparison textures were chosen independently from a skewed (asymmetrical) probability distribution with distinct spatial or temporal statistics. We simulated observers' performance using different estimators (vector average, winner-takes-all and maximum likelihood) to decode the orientation-tuned activity of a population of model neurons. Our results revealed that the perceived global orientation of texture patterns coincided with the mean (or vector average read-out) of orientation signals accumulated over both space and time. To reconcile these results with our previous work on direction pooling, we varied stimulus duration. Perceived global orientation was accurately predicted by a vector average read-out of orientation signals at relatively short stimulus durations and maximum likelihood read-out at longer durations. Moreover, decreasing the luminance contrast of texture patterns increased the duration of the transition from a vector average to maximum likelihood read-out. Our results suggest that direction and orientation pooling use similar probabilistic read-out strategies when sufficient time is available.
The simple neural observation that the receptive fields of visual neurons are spatially extended lies at the heart of accounts of psychophysical phenomena to do with a sometimes unrequited need for spatial selection. In this paper, we consider its role in three anomalies associated with selective attention: the apparently undue influence of distractor stimuli when decisions in the Eriksen flanker task have to be made under time pressure; the phenomenon associated with attentional load that distractors distal to a target exert more effect when the demands on selective attention are smaller rather than larger; and the observation that crowding, a breakdown in peripheral discriminability in the presence of flankers, can under some circumstances be asymmetrical with respect to the relative proximity to the fovea of target and flanker. We show how these seeming anomalies can arise from normative Bayesian inference in the face of spatially confounded input.
The molecular mechanisms underlying stress- and drug-induced neuronal adaptations are incompletely understood. One molecule implicated in such adaptations is FosB, a transcription factor that accumulates in the rodent nucleus accumbens (NAc), a key brain reward region, in response to either chronic stress or repeated exposure to drugs of abuse. The upstream transcriptional mechanisms controlling FosB induction by these environmental stimuli remain elusive. Here, we identify the activity-dependent transcription factor, serum response factor (SRF), as a novel upstream mediator of stress-, but not cocaine-, induced FosB. SRF is downregulated in NAc of both depressed human patients and in mice chronically exposed to social defeat stress. This downregulation of SRF is absent in resilient animals. Through the use of inducible mutagenesis, we show that stress-mediated induction of FosB, which occurs predominantly in resilient mice, is dependent on SRF expression in this brain region. Furthermore, NAc-specific genetic deletion of SRF promotes a variety of prodepressant- and proanxiety-like phenotypes and renders animals more sensitive to the deleterious effects of chronic stress. In contrast, we demonstrate that SRF does not play a role in FosB accumulation in NAc in response to chronic cocaine exposure. Furthermore, NAc-specific knock-out of SRF has no effect on cocaine-induced behaviors, indicating that chronic social defeat stress and repeated cocaine exposure regulate FosB accumulation and behavioral sensitivity through independent mechanisms.
Many cells in the inferior colliculus (IC) are excited by contralateral and inhibited by ipsilateral stimulation and are thought to be important for sound localization. These excitatory-inhibitory (EI) cells comprise a diverse group, even though they exhibit a common binaural response property. Previous extracellular studies showed the diversity results from different circuits that generate the same EI property among the IC population, where some inherit the property from a lower nucleus, some are formed de novo in the IC, and others inherit EI features that are modified by inhibitory circuits. Here we evaluated the differential circuitry by recording inputs (postsynaptic potentials) and outputs (spikes) with in vivo whole-cell recordings from the IC of awake Mexican free-tailed bats. We show that in a minority of EI cells, either they inherited their binaural property from a lower binaural nucleus or the EI property was created in the IC via inhibitory projections from the ipsilateral ear, features consistent with those observed in extracellular studies. However, in a majority of EI cells, ipsilateral signals evoked subthreshold EPSPs that behaved paradoxically in that EPSP amplitudes increased with intensity, even though binaural signals with the same ipsilateral intensities generated progressively greater spike suppressions. We propose circuitry that can account for the responses we observed and suggest that the ipsilaterally evoked EPSPs could influence the responsiveness of IC cells to dynamic signals with interaural intensity disparities that change over time, such as moving sound sources or multiple sounds that occur in complex acoustic environments.
The discrimination reversal paradigm is commonly used to measure a subject's ability to adapt their behavior according to changes in stimulus-reward contingencies. Human functional neuroimaging studies have demonstrated activations in the lateral orbitofrontal cortex (OFC) and the inferior frontal gyrus (IFG) in subjects performing this task. Excitotoxic lesions of analogous regions in marmosets have revealed, however, that although the OFC is indeed critical for reversal learning, ventrolateral prefrontal cortex (VLPFC) (analogous to IFG) is not, contributing instead to higher order processing, such as that required in attentional set-shifting and strategy transfer. One major difference between the marmoset and human studies has been the level of training subjects received in reversal learning, being far greater in the latter. Since exposure to repeated contingency changes, as occurs in serial reversal learning, is likely to trigger the development of higher order, rule-based strategies, we hypothesized a critical role of the marmoset VLPFC in performance of a serial reversal learning paradigm. After extensive training in reversal learning, marmosets received an excitotoxic lesion of the VLPFC, OFC, or a sham control procedure. In agreement with our prediction, postsurgery, VLPFC lesioned animals were impaired in performing a series of discrimination reversals, but only when novel visual stimuli were introduced. In contrast, OFC lesioned animals were impaired regardless of whether the visual stimuli were the same or different from those used during presurgery training. Together, these data demonstrate the heterogeneous but interrelated involvement of primate OFC and VLPFC in the performance of serial reversal learning.
Locus ceruleus (LC) neuronal activity is correlated with the waking state, yet LC lesions produce only minor alterations in daily wakefulness. Here, we report that sustained elevations in neurobehavioral and EEG arousal in response to exposure to an environment with novel stimuli, including social interaction, are prevented by selective chemical lesions of the LC in rats. Similar results are seen when the anterior cingulate cortex (ACC), which receives especially dense LC innervation, is selectively denervated of LC input or is ablated by the cell-specific neurotoxin ibotenic acid. Anterograde tracing combined with tyrosine hydroxylase immunohistochemistry demonstrates ACC terminals in apposition with the distal dendrites of LC neurons. Our data implicate the ACC as both a source of input to the LC as well as one of its targets and suggests that the two structures engage in a dialog that may provide a critical neurobiological substrate for sustained attention.
The dorsal-side-up body posture in standing quadrupeds is maintained by the postural system, which includes spinal and supraspinal mechanisms driven by somatosensory inputs from the limbs. A number of descending tracts can transmit supraspinal commands for postural corrections. The first aim of this study was to understand whether the rubrospinal tract participates in their transmission. We recorded activity of red nucleus neurons (RNNs) in the cat maintaining balance on the periodically tilting platform. Most neurons were identified as rubrospinal ones. It was found that many RNNs were profoundly modulated by tilts, suggesting that they transmit postural commands. The second aim of this study was to examine the contribution of sensory inputs from individual limbs to posture-related RNN modulation. Each RNN was recorded during standing on all four limbs, as well as when two or three limbs were lifted from the platform and could not signal platform displacements. By comparing RNN responses in different tests, we found that the amplitude and phase of responses in the majority of RNNs were determined primarily by sensory input from the corresponding (fore or hind) contralateral limb, whereas inputs from other limbs made a much smaller contribution to RNN modulation. These findings suggest that the rubrospinal system is primarily involved in the intralimb postural coordination, i.e., in the feedback control of the corresponding limb and, to a lesser extent, in the interlimb coordination. This study provides a new insight into the formation of supraspinal motor commands for postural corrections.
Accurate orientation to sound under challenging conditions requires auditory cortex, but it is unclear how spatial attributes of the auditory scene are represented at this level. Current organization schemes follow a functional division whereby dorsal and ventral auditory cortices specialize to encode spatial and object features of sound source, respectively. However, few studies have examined spatial cue sensitivities in ventral cortices to support or reject such schemes. Here Fourier optical imaging was used to quantify best frequency responses and corresponding gradient organization in primary (A1), anterior, posterior, ventral (VAF), and suprarhinal (SRAF) auditory fields of the rat. Spike rate sensitivities to binaural interaural level difference (ILD) and average binaural level cues were probed in A1 and two ventral cortices, VAF and SRAF. Continuous distributions of best ILDs and ILD tuning metrics were observed in all cortices, suggesting this horizontal position cue is well covered. VAF and caudal SRAF in the right cerebral hemisphere responded maximally to midline horizontal position cues, whereas A1 and rostral SRAF responded maximally to ILD cues favoring more eccentric positions in the contralateral sound hemifield. SRAF had the highest incidence of binaural facilitation for ILD cues corresponding to midline positions, supporting current theories that auditory cortices have specialized and hierarchical functional organization.
During development, neurons migrate considerable distances to reside in locations that enable their individual functional roles. Whereas migration mechanisms have been extensively studied, much less is known about how neurons remain in their ideal locations. We sought to identify factors that maintain the position of postmigratory dorsal root ganglion neurons, neural crest derivatives for which migration and final position play an important developmental role. We found that an early developing population of sensory neurons maintains the position of later born dorsal root ganglia neurons in an activity-dependent manner. Further, inhibiting or increasing the function of brain-derived neurotrophic factor induces or prevents, respectively, migration of dorsal root ganglia neurons out of the ganglion to locations where they acquire a new identity. Overall, the results demonstrate that neurotrophins mediate non-cell-autonomous maintenance of position and thereby the identity of differentiated neurons.
Oligodendrocyte myelin glycoprotein (OMgp) is expressed by both neurons and oligodendrocytes in the CNS. It has been implicated in growth cone collapse and neurite outgrowth inhibition by signaling through the Nogo receptor and paired Ig-like receptor B (PirB). OMgp was also reported to be an extracellular matrix (ECM) protein surrounding CNS nodes of Ranvier and proposed to function as (1) an inhibitor of nodal collateral sprouting and (2) an important contributor to proper nodal and paranodal architecture. However, we show here that the anti-OMgp antiserum used in previous studies to define the functions of OMgp at nodes is not specific. Among all reported nodal ECM components, the antiserum exhibited strong cross-reactivity against versican V2 isoform, a chondroitin sulfate proteoglycan. Furthermore, the OMgp antiserum labeled OMgp-null nodes, but not nodes from versican V2-deficient mice, and preadsorption of the OMgp antiserum with recombinant versican V2 blocked nodal labeling. Analysis of CNS nodes in OMgp-null mice failed to reveal any nodal or paranodal defects, or increased nodal collateral sprouting, indicating that OMgp does not participate in CNS node of Ranvier assembly or maintenance. We successfully identified a highly specific anti-OMgp antibody and observed OMgp staining in white matter only after initiation of myelination. OMgp immunoreactivity decorated the surface of mature myelinated axons, but was excluded from compact myelin and nodes. Together, our results strongly argue against the nodal localization of OMgp and its proposed functions at nodes, and reveal OMgp's authentic localization relative to nodes and myelin.
Negative transcriptional feedback loops are a core feature of eukaryotic circadian clocks and are based on rhythmic interactions between clock-specific repressors and transcription factors. In Drosophila, the repression of dCLOCK (dCLK)-CYCLE (CYC) transcriptional activity by dPERIOD (dPER) is critical for driving circadian gene expression. Although growing lines of evidence indicate that circadian repressors such as dPER function, at least partly, as molecular bridges that facilitate timely interactions between other regulatory factors and core clock transcription factors, how dPER interacts with dCLK-CYC to promote repression is not known. Here, we identified a small conserved region on dPER required for binding to dCLK, termed CBD (for dCLK binding domain). In the absence of the CBD, dPER is unable to stably associate with dCLK and inhibit the transcriptional activity of dCLK-CYC in a simplified cell culture system. CBD is situated in close proximity to a region that interacts with other regulatory factors such as the DOUBLETIME kinase, suggesting that complex architectural constraints need to be met to assemble repressor complexes. Surprisingly, when dPER missing the CBD (dPER(CBD)) was evaluated in flies the clock mechanism was operational, albeit with longer periods. Intriguingly, the interaction between dPER(CBD) and dCLK is TIM-dependent and modulated by light, revealing a novel and unanticipated in vivo role for TIM in circadian transcription. Finally, dPER(CBD) does not provoke the daily hyperphosphorylation of dCLK, indicating that direct interactions between dPER and dCLK are necessary for the dCLK phosphorylation program but are not required for other aspects of dCLK regulation.
In the mammalian CNS, glial cells expressing excitatory amino acid transporters (EAATs) tightly regulate extracellular glutamate levels to control neurotransmission and protect neurons from excitotoxic damage. Dysregulated EAAT expression is associated with several CNS pathologies in humans, yet mechanisms of EAAT regulation and the importance of glutamate transport for CNS development and function in vivo remain incompletely understood. Drosophila is an advanced genetic model with only a single high-affinity glutamate transporter termed Eaat1. We found that Eaat1 expression in CNS glia is regulated by the glycosyltransferase Fringe, which promotes neuron-to-glia signaling through the Delta-Notch ligand-receptor pair during embryogenesis. We made Eaat1 loss-of-function mutations and found that homozygous larvae could not perform the rhythmic peristaltic contractions required for crawling. We found no evidence for excitotoxic cell death or overt defects in the development of neurons and glia, and the crawling defect could be induced by postembryonic inactivation of Eaat1. Eaat1 fully rescued locomotor activity when expressed in only a limited subpopulation of glial cells situated near potential glutamatergic synapses within the CNS neuropil. Eaat1 mutants had deficits in the frequency, amplitude, and kinetics of synaptic currents in motor neurons whose rhythmic patterns of activity may be regulated by glutamatergic neurotransmission among premotor interneurons; similar results were seen with pharmacological manipulations of glutamate transport. Our findings indicate that Eaat1 expression is promoted by Fringe-mediated neuron-glial communication during development and suggest that Eaat1 plays an essential role in regulating CNS neural circuits that control locomotion in Drosophila.
Expectations generated by predictive cues increase the efficiency of perceptual processing for complex stimuli (e.g., faces, scenes); however, the impact this has on working memory (WM) and long-term memory (LTM) has not yet been investigated. Here, healthy young adults performed delayed-recognition tasks that differed only in stimulus category expectations, while behavioral and functional magnetic resonance imaging data were collected. Univariate and functional-connectivity analyses were used to examine expectation-driven, prestimulus neural modulation, networks that regulate this modulation, and subsequent memory performance. Results revealed that predictive category cueing was associated with both enhanced WM and LTM for faces, as well as baseline activity shifts in a face-selective region of the visual association cortex [i.e., fusiform face area (FFA)]. In addition, the degree of functional connectivity between FFA and right inferior frontal junction (IFJ), middle frontal gyrus (MFG), inferior frontal gyrus, and intraparietal sulcus correlated with the magnitude of prestimulus activity modulation in the FFA. In an opposing manner, prestimulus connectivity between FFA and posterior cingulate cortex, a region of the default network, negatively correlated with FFA activity modulation. Moreover, whereas FFA connectivity with IFJ and the precuneus predicted enhanced expectation-related WM performance, FFA connectivity with MFG predicted LTM improvements. These findings suggest a model of expectancy-mediated neural biasing, in which a single node (e.g., FFA) can be dynamically linked or disconnected from different brain regions depending on prestimulus expectations, and the strength of distinct connections is associated with WM or LTM benefits.
Recent evidence suggests that a circuit involving the centromedian-parafascicular (Pf) thalamus and basal ganglia is critical for a shift away from biased actions. In particular, excitatory input from the Pf onto striatal cholinergic neurons may facilitate behavioral flexibility. Accumulating evidence indicates that an endogenous increase in dorsomedial striatal acetylcholine (ACh) output enhances behavioral flexibility. The present experiments investigated whether the rat (Rattus norvegicus) Pf supports flexibility during reversal learning, in part, by modifying dorsomedial striatal ACh output. This was determined first by examining the effects of Pf inactivation, through infusion of the GABA agonists baclofen and muscimol, on place acquisition and reversal learning. Additional experiments examined Pf inactivation on dorsomedial striatal ACh output during reversal learning and a resting condition. Behavioral testing was performed in a cross-maze. In vivo microdialysis combined with HPLC/electrochemical detection was used to sample ACh from the dorsomedial striatum. Pf inactivation selectively impaired reversal learning in a dose-dependent manner. A subsequent study showed that an increase in dorsomedial striatal ACh efflux (30% above basal levels) during reversal learning was blocked by Pf inactivation, which concomitantly impaired reversal learning. In the resting condition, a dose of baclofen and muscimol that blocked a behaviorally induced increase in dorsomedial striatal ACh output did not reduce basal ACh efflux. Together, the present findings indicate that the Pf is an intralaminar thalamic nucleus critical for behavioral flexibility, in part, by directly affecting striatal ACh output under conditions that require a shift in choice patterns.
Precise regulation of cyclin-dependent kinase 5 (Cdk5), a member of the cyclin-dependent kinase family, is critical for proper neuronal development and functions. Cdk5 is activated through its association with the neuron-specific activator p35 or p39. Nonetheless, how its kinase activity is regulated in neurons is not well understood. In this study, we found that Cdk5 activity is regulated by S-nitrosylation, a post-translational modification of protein that affects a plethora of neuronal functions. S-nitrosylation of Cdk5 occurs at Cys83, which is one of the critical amino acids within the ATP-binding pocket of the kinase. Upon S-nitrosylation, Cdk5 exhibits reduced kinase activity, whereas mutation of Cys83 to Ala on Cdk5 renders the kinase refractory to such inhibition. Importantly, S-nitrosylated Cdk5 can be detected in the mouse brain, and blocking the S-nitrosylation of Cdk5 in cultured hippocampal neurons enhances dendritic growth and branching. Together, our findings reveal an important role of S-nitrosylation in regulating Cdk5 kinase activity and dendrite growth in neurons during development.
Perceptual decisions are made when sensory evidence accumulated over time reaches a decision threshold. Because decisions are also guided by prior information, one important factor that is likely to shape how a decision is adaptively tuned to its context is the predictability of forthcoming events. However, little is known about the mechanisms underlying this contextual regulation of the perceptual decision-making process. Mathematical models of decision making predict two possible mechanisms supporting this regulation: an adjustment of the distance to the decision threshold, which leads to a change in the amount of accumulated evidence required to make a decision, or a gain control of the sensory evidence, leading to a change in the slope of the sensory evidence accumulation. Here, we show that predictability of the forthcoming event reduces the distance to the threshold of the decision. Then, combining model-driven fMRI and the framework of information theory, we show that the anterior cingulate cortex (ACC) adjusts the distance to the decision threshold in proportion to the current amount of predictive information and that the dorsolateral cortex (DLPFC) codes the accumulation of sensory evidence. Moreover, the information flow from the ACC to the DLPFC region that accumulates sensory evidence increases when optimal adjustment of the distance to the threshold requires more complex computations, reflecting the increased weight of ACC's regulation signals in the decision process. Our results characterize the respective contributions of the ACC and the DLPFC to contextually optimized decision making.
Accumulation of -amyloid (A) and loss of synapses are hallmarks of Alzheimer's disease (AD). How synaptic activity relates to A accumulation and loss of synapses is a current topic of major interest. Synaptic activation promotes A secretion, and chronic reduction of synaptic activity reduced A plaques in an AD transgenic mouse model. This suggested beneficial effects of reducing synaptic activity in AD. We now show that reduced synaptic activity causes detrimental effects on synapses and memory despite reducing plaques using two different models of chronic synaptic inhibition: deafferentation of the barrel cortex and administration of benzodiazepine. An interval of prolonged synaptic inhibition exacerbated loss of synaptophysin compared with synaptically more active brain in AD transgenic but not wild-type mice. Furthermore, an interval of benzodiazepine treatment, followed by a washout period, exacerbated memory impairment in AD transgenic mice. Exacerbation of synaptic and behavioral abnormalities occurred in the setting of reduced A plaques but elevated intraneuronal A immunoreactivity. These data support beneficial effects of synaptic activation on A-related synaptic and behavioral impairment in AD.
Braille reading is a demanding task that requires the identification of rapidly varying tactile patterns. During proficient reading, neighboring characters impact the fingertip at 100 ms intervals, and adjacent raised dots within a character at 50 ms intervals. Because the brain requires time to interpret afferent sensorineural activity, among other reasons, tactile stimuli separated by such short temporal intervals pose a challenge to perception. How, then, do proficient Braille readers successfully interpret inputs arising from their fingertips at such rapid rates? We hypothesized that somatosensory perceptual consolidation occurs more rapidly in proficient Braille readers. If so, Braille readers should outperform sighted participants on masking tasks, which demand rapid perceptual processing, but would not necessarily outperform the sighted on tests of simple vibrotactile sensitivity. To investigate, we conducted two-interval forced-choice vibrotactile detection, amplitude discrimination, and masking tasks on the index fingertips of 89 sighted and 57 profoundly blind humans. Sighted and blind participants had similar unmasked detection (25 ms target tap) and amplitude discrimination (compared with 100 m reference tap) thresholds, but congenitally blind Braille readers, the fastest readers among the blind participants, exhibited significantly less masking than the sighted (masker, 50 Hz, 50 m; target-masker delays, 50 and 100 ms). Indeed, Braille reading speed correlated significantly and specifically with masking task performance, and in particular with the backward masking decay time constant. We conclude that vibrotactile sensitivity is unchanged but that perceptual processing is accelerated in congenitally blind Braille readers.
Synchronization of neuronal responses, which allows coordination of distributed activity patterns, is instrumental in brain functioning, as altered neuronal synchronization is involved in a variety of brain pathologies. Epileptic hypersynchrony chiefly relies on brain wiring, which, in a broader sense, means including astrocytic release of gliotransmitters and electrotonic coupling through gap junctions, beyond classical synaptic connections. Epileptic hypersynchrony also relies on electrical field effects and ion concentration changes in the extracellular space, and it relates to intracellular mechanisms underlying neuronal hyperexcitability. The current lack of a specific impact of hypersynchrony on antiepileptic drug development might be next surpassed, as hypersynchrony seems to be a worthy and approachable, though challenging target of antiepileptic pharmacology.
Carbon dioxide (CO(2)) is an important environmental cue for many animal species. In both vertebrates and invertebrates, CO(2) is detected by a specialized subset of olfactory sensory neurons (OSNs) and mediates several stereotypical behaviors. It remains unknown how CO(2) cues are integrated with other olfactory signals in the mammalian olfactory bulb, the first stage of central olfactory processing. By recording from the mouse olfactory bulb in vivo, we found that CO(2)-activating neurons also respond selectively to odorants, many of which are putative mouse pheromones and natural odorants. In addition, many odorant-responsive bulbar neurons are inhibited by CO(2). For a substantial number of CO(2)-activating neurons, binary mixtures of CO(2) and a specific odorant produce responses that are distinct from those evoked by either CO(2) or the odorant alone. In addition, for a substantial number of CO(2)-inhibiting neurons, CO(2) addition can completely block the action potential firing of the cells to the odorants. These results indicate strong interaction between CO(2) signals and odorant signals in the olfactory bulb, suggesting important roles for the integration of these two signals in CO(2)-mediated behavioral responses.
Acid sensing ion channels (ASIC) are found in sensory neurons, including those that innervate muscle tissue. After peripheral inflammation there is an increase in proton concentration in the inflamed tissue, which likely activates ASICs. Previous studies from our laboratory in an animal model of muscle inflammation show that hyperalgesia does not occur in ASIC3 and ASIC1 knockout mice. Therefore, in the present study we investigated if pH activated currents in sensory neurons innervating muscle are altered after induction of muscle inflammation. Sensory neurons innervating mouse (C57/Bl6) muscle were retrogradely labeled with 1,1-dioctadecyl-3,3,3,3 tetramethylindocarbocyanine perchlorate (DiI). Two weeks after injection of DiI, mice were injected with 3% carrageenan to induce inflammation (n=8; 74 neurons) or pH 7.2 saline (n=5; 40 neurons, control) into the gastrocnemius muscle. 24 h later sensory neurons from L4-L6 dorsal root ganglia (DRG) were isolated and cultured. The following day the DRG neuron cultures were tested for responses to pH by whole-cell patch-clamp technique. Approximately 40% of neurons responded to pH 5 with an inward rapidly desensitizing current consistent with ASIC channels in both groups. The mean pH-evoked current amplitudes were significantly increased in muscle sensory neurons from inflamed mice (pH 5.0, 3602  470 pA) in comparison to the controls (pH 7.4, 1964  370 pA). In addition, the biophysical properties of ASIC-like currents were altered after inflammation. Changes in ASIC channels result in enhanced responsiveness to decreases in pH, and likely contribute to the increased hyperalgesia observed after muscle inflammation.
Epilepsy is known to influence hippocampal dentate granule cell (DGC) layer neurogenesis. In young adult rats, status epilepticus (SE) increases the number DGC newly borne cells and basal dendrites (BD), which persist at long-term. In contrast, little is known on whether these phenomena occur in elderly epileptic animals. In the present study, we compare DGC proliferation and the incidence of BD in young and aged pilocarpine-treated rats. Three epileptic groups were considered: Young animals given pilocarpine at 3 months of age. Aged animals treated with pilocarpine at 3 months of age that were sacrificed at 17-20 months. Aged animals that had pilocarpine and developed SE at 20 months, being sacrificed 2 months later. Nine days prior to sacrifice, animals underwent swimming sessions in the Morris water maze as a protocol for the development of hippocampal neurogenesis. We found a higher incidence of newly born DGC cells in young as compared to aged epileptic animals (P&lt;0.001). This later group however, was not homogeneous. While a significant increase in DGC neurogenesis was observed when aged animals with long lasting epilepsy were compared to non-epileptic controls (P&lt;0.01), this has not been recorded in aged animals that had epilepsy for only 2 months (P&gt;0.05). When the number of DGC containing BD was considered, a significantly higher incidence was observed in young as compared to aged epileptic rats (P=0.001). Animals in this later group virtually lacked BD in newly formed dentate gyrus (DG) cells. Based on these results we conclude that plastic changes during epileptogenesis and the development of a pathological substrate in young animals is associated with DGC proliferation and the emergence of BD. As aging occurs, DGC neurogenesis can still be induced in rats with a long-term history of epilepsy but the emergence of BD is markedly reduced.
Stroke is a leading cause of death and disability but has limited therapeutic options. Thiazolidinediones (TZDs), agonists for the nuclear receptor, peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor (PPAR), reduce infarct volume and improve neurologic function following transient middle cerebral artery occlusion (MCAO) in rats. Translation of these findings into clinical therapy will require careful assessment of dosing paradigms and effective time windows for treatment. Understanding the mechanisms by which TZDs protect the brain provides insight into how time windows for neuroprotection might be extended. We find that two TZDs, pioglitazone and rosiglitazone, significantly reduce infarct volume at doses similar to those used clinically (1 mg/kg for pioglitazone and 0.1 mg/kg for rosiglitazone). We also find that pioglitazone reduces infarction volume in a transient, but not a permanent MCAO model suggesting that reperfusion plays an important role in TZD mediated neuroprotection. Since PPAR agonists reduce inflammation and oxidative stress, both of which are exacerbated by reperfusion, we hypothesized that TZDs would be most effective if administered prior to reperfusion. We administered TZDs 3 h after MCAO and found that infarction volume and neurologic function are significantly improved in animals reperfused at 3 h and 15 min (after TZD treatment), but not in animals reperfused at 2 h (before TZD treatment) when assessed either 24 h or 3 weeks after MCAO. While TZDs reduce intercellular adhesion molecule (ICAM) expression to a similar extent regardless of the time of reperfusion, leukocyte entry into brain parenchyma is more dramatically reduced when reperfusion is delayed until after drug treatment. The finding that delaying reperfusion until after TZD treatment is beneficial despite a longer period of ischemia, is dramatic given the widely held view that duration of ischemia is the most important determinate of injury.
Prenatal exposure to a relatively high-dose ethanol (EtOH) caused anxiety-like behavior of adult male rat offspring. Previous studies have demonstrated that GABA system in the basolateral amygdala complex (BLA) is involved in the pathogensis of anxiety-related disorders. The role of GABAergic system in the BLA was investigated in anxiety-like behavior evoked by prenatal EtOH exposure. The infusion of midazolam (MDZ), a positive modulator of GABA(A) receptor, into the BLA prevented anxiety-like behavior in EtOH-offspring without affecting the corresponding behavior of control offspring. The data suggest that anxiety-like behavior could be causally related to increased neuronal excitability attributable to depressed GABAergic inhibition in the BLA. To test this hypothesis, evoked potential was studied using brain slices from EtOH-offspring. Potential evoked in the BLA by single stimuli applied to external capsule showed multispike responses, indicative of GABAergic disinhibition. These multiple responses were no longer evident after the perfusion with MDZ. In the slices from EtOH-offspring, paired-pulse inhibition (GABA(A)-dependent) was suppressed. Also, in EtOH-offspring, long-term potentiation (LTP) was induced by a single train of high frequency stimulation, which did not induce LTP in control rats. Moreover, MDZ pretreatment prevented the facilitating effect of EtOH on LTP induction. The data provide the functional evidence that prenatal EtOH exposure attenuates GABAergic inhibition in the BLA resulting in neuronal hyperexcitability and anxiety-like behavior of adult rat offspring.
Conantokins are naturally-occurring small peptide antagonists of ion flow through NMDA/glycine activated-N-methyl-d-aspartate receptor (NMDAR) ion channels. One member of the conantokin family, conantokin (con)-G, a 17-residue peptide, is selective for NMDARs containing the N-methyl-d-aspartate receptor subunit 2 B (NR2B), whereas the homologous peptides, con-T and con-R, show broader selectivity for NR2 subunits. In this study, con-G, con-R, and con-T variants were chemically synthesized and employed to investigate their subunit selectivities as inhibitors of agonist-evoked ion currents in human embryonic kidney-293 (HEK-293) cells expressing various combinations of NMDAR subunits that contain NR1a or NR1b combined with NR2A or NR2B. Using truncation and point mutants, as well as chimeric conantokins, we determined that the N-terminus of con-G contains all the determinants for NR2B selectivity. With this information, a large number of (con) variants were synthesized and used to establish minimal sequence determinants for selectivity. Tyr at position 5 broadens the NR2 selectivity, and recovery of NR2B selectivity in Tyr5 peptides was achieved by incorporating Ala or Gly at position 8. NR2B selectivity in con-R can be conferred through deletion of the Ala at position 10, thereby shifting the -carboxyglutamate (Gla) from position 11 to position 10, where a Gla naturally occurs in con-G and con-T. The nature of the amino acid at position 6 is also linked to subunit selectivity. Our studies suggest that the molecular determinants of conantokins that dictate NMDAR subunit selectivity are housed in specific residues of the N-termini of these peptides. Thus, it is possible to engineer desired NMDAR functional properties into conantokin-based peptides.
Many features of the suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN) are the same in diurnal and nocturnal animals, suggesting that differences in phase preference are determined by mechanisms downstream from the SCN. Here, we examined this hypothesis by characterizing rhythmic expression of Period 1 (PER1) and Period 2 (PER2) in several extra-SCN areas in the brains of a diurnal murid rodent, Arvicanthis niloticus (grass rats). In the shell of the nucleus accumbens, dorsal striatum, piriform cortex, and CA1 of the hippocampus, both PER1 and PER2 were rhythmic, with peak expression occurring at ZT10. PER1 in the dentate gyrus also peaked at ZT10, but PER2 was arrhythmic in this region. In general, these patterns are 180 degrees out of phase with those reported for nocturnal species. In a second study, we examined inter-individual differences in the multioscillator system of grass rats. Here, we housed grass rats in cages with running wheels, under which conditions some individuals spontaneously adopt a day active (DA) and others a night active (NA) phase preference. In the majority of the extra-SCN regions sampled, the patterns of PER1 and PER2 expression of NA grass rats resembled those of nocturnal species, while those of DA grass rats were similar to the ones seen in grass without access to running wheels. In contrast, the rhythmic expression of both PER proteins was identical in the SCN and ventral subparaventricular zone (vSPZ) of DA and NA animals. Differences in the phase of oscillators downstream from the SCN, and perhaps the vSPZ, appear to determine the phase preference of particular species, as well as that of members of a diurnal species that show voluntary phase reversals. The latter observation has important implications for the understanding of health problems associated with human shift work.
The tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF-) is a cytokine that exerts neuroprotective and neurodegenerative effects. While some research suggests enhancing effects of the TNF- gene (TNF- -308GA) on cognitive function, further research is needed to clarify the association between the TNF- gene and specific areas of cognitive performance including their neurophysiological correlates. In this study we examine association of the TNF- -308GA single nucleotide polymorphism (rs1800629) with attention and mental rotation performance in an event-related potential (ERP) study in healthy participants (n=67). The results show that carriers of the -308 A allele display elevated attentional processes (i.e. a stronger N1) as compared to the GG genotype group. Mental rotation performance varied across genotypes when demands on mental rotation were high. Here, carriers of the -308 A allele performed better than the GG genotype group. This is paralleled by the neurophysiological data showing genotype-dependent variations in parietal positivities only under the condition of high demands on mental rotation. The finding of enhanced attentional and mental rotation performance in A allele carriers supports recent findings that the A allele of this single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) enhances cognitive performance on a general measure of cognitive processing speed.
Large conductance Ca(2+)-activated potassium (BK) channels play important roles in controlling neuronal excitability. We cloned the PISlo gene encoding BK channels from the spiny lobster, Panulirus interruptus. This gene shows 81-98% sequence identity to Slo genes previously found in other organisms. We isolated a number of splice variants of the PISlo cDNA within Panulirus interruptus nervous tissue. Sequence analysis indicated that there are at least seven alternative splice sites in PISlo, each with multiple alternative segments. Using immunohistochemistry, we found that the PISlo proteins are distributed in the synaptic neuropil, axon and soma of stomatogastric ganglion (STG) neurons.
Activation of glutamate receptors and glial cells in the spinal dorsal horn are two fundamental processes involved in the pathogenesis of various pain conditions, including neuropathic pain induced by injury to the peripheral or central nervous systems. Numerous studies have demonstrated that minocycline treatment attenuates allodynic and hyperalgesic behaviors induced by tissue inflammation or nerve injury. However, the synaptic mechanisms by which minocycline prevents hyperalgesia are not fully understood. We recently reported that deficient glutamate uptake by glial glutamate transporters (GTs) is key for the enhanced activation of N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA) receptors in the spinal sensory synapses of rats receiving partial sciatic nerve ligation (pSNL). In this study, we investigated how minocycline affects activation of NMDA receptors in the spinal sensory synapses in rats with pSNL by whole cell recordings of NMDA currents in spinal laminea I and II neurons from spinal slices. The effects of minocycline treatments on the dorsal horn expression of glial GTs and astrocyte marker glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) were analyzed by immunohistochemistry. We demonstrated that normalized activation of NMDA receptors in synapses activated by both weak and strong peripheral input in the spinal dorsal horn is temporally associated with attenuated mechanical allodynia in rats with pSNL receiving intraperitoneal injection of minocycline. Minocycline ameliorated both the downregulation of glial GT expression and the activation of astrocytes induced by pSNL in the spinal dorsal horn. We further revealed that preventing deficient glial glutamate uptake at the synapse is crucial for preserving the normalized activation of NMDA receptors in the spinal sensory synapses in pSNL rats treated with minocycline. Our studies suggest that glial GTs may be a potential target for the development of analgesics.
