During the presentation of stimulus sequences in oddball paradigms, participants tend to implicitly evaluate the conditional probability of target occurrence. It is not sure, however, if subjective estimation of conditional probabilities modulates target expectancy and target processing in the same manner. In the present experiment, the amplitudes of CNV and P300 were studied separately to compare preparatory and decision mechanisms and their sensitivity to variations in target probability. Amplitudes of both components were measured at different positions in the stimulus sequence, which modulates target probability as a function of distance from the preceding target. Results showed shorter RTs with increased probability of target occurrence (that is, with longer distance to the previous target). CNV amplitude was low when target probability was zero and maximal when the occurrence of a target was possible, regardless of its probability. Conversely, a gradual increase with augmenting probability was observed for P300 amplitude. Thus, preparatory activity as reflected by the CNV showed an all or nothing response to variations in probability, whereas action closure mechanisms, indexed by P300 components, were found to be more sensitive to subtle differences in stimulus expectancy.
The present study investigated effects of human umbilical cord blood (HUCB) cells on sensorimotor, cognitive, and histological outcome in rats subjected to transient middle cerebral artery occlusion (MCAO). Halothane anesthetized adult male Wistar rats were subjected to transient MCAO for 2 h. HUCB cells (mononuclear 1-5x10(7) or Lin(-) cells 1-5x10(5)) were administered intravenously after 24 h recovery. The limb-placing test was performed on postoperative days 2, 4, 6, 9, 12, 16, and 20. In addition, beam-walking and cylinder tests were used to assess sensorimotor function at baseline, and on postoperative days 4, 12, and 20. Morris water-maze was used to assess cognitive performance on postoperative days 22-24. Subsequently, rats were perfused for measurement of infarct volumes and detection of HUCB cells by immunohistochemistry (MAB1281). MCAO rats showed a partial spontaneous recovery in sensorimotor function during the follow-up. However, the recovery profile was similar in MCAO controls and in MCAO rats that received HUCB cells. HUCB did not affect impaired water-maze performance of MCAO rats. Only few human nuclei-specific MAB1281-positive cells were detected in the ipsilateral hemisphere in MCAO rats that received HUCB cells. Infarct volumes did not differ between the experimental groups. A group of additional rats were used to further study biodistribution of intravenously given (111)In-oxine-labelled mononuclear HUCB cells in MCAO and sham-operated rats. SPECT imaging data indicated a high tracer uptake in the lung, liver, spleen, and kidney, but not in the brain immediately after administration or 24 h post-administration. The present study suggests that HUCB cells do not improve functional recovery or histological outcome in MCAO rats after systemic administration because of limited migration of cells in the ischemic brain.
Mesencephalic dopamine neurons form synapses with acetylcholine (ACh)-containing interneurons in the nucleus accumbens (NAcc). Although their involvement in drug reward has not been systematically investigated, these large aspiny interneurons may serve an important integrative function. We previously found that repeated activation of nicotinic cholinergic receptors enhanced cocaine intake in rats but the role of muscarinic receptors in drug reward is less clear. Here we examined the impact of local changes in muscarinic receptor activation within the NAcc on cocaine and food self-administration in rats trained on a progressive ratio (PR) schedule of reinforcement. Animals were given a minimum of 9 continuous days of drug access before testing in order to establish a stable breaking point (BP) for intravenous cocaine infusions (0.75 mg/kg/infusion). Rats in the food group acquired stable responding on the PR schedule within 7 days. On the test day, rats were bilaterally infused in the NAcc with the muscarinic receptor agonist oxotremorine methiodide (OXO: 0.1, 0.3 or 1 nmol/side), OXO plus the M(1) selective antagonist pirenzepine (PIRENZ; 0.3 nmol/side) or aCSF 15 min before cocaine or food access. OXO dose dependently reduced BP values for cocaine reinforcement (-17%, -44% [p&lt;0.05] and -91% [p&lt;0.0001] for 0.1, 0.3 and 1.0 nmol, respectively) and these reductions dissipated by the following session. Pretreatment with PIRENZ blocked the BP-reducing effect of 0.3 nmol OXO. Notably, OXO (0.1, 0.3 and 1.0 nmol/side) injection in the NAcc did not affect BP for food reward. The results suggest that muscarinic ACh receptors in the caudomedial NAcc may play a role in mediating the behavior reinforcing effects of cocaine.
Thiophene moieties were incorporated into previously described Zinspy (ZS) fluorescent Zn(II) sensor motifs (Nolan, E. M.; Lippard, S. J. Inorg. Chem. 2004, 43, 8310-8317) to provide enhanced fluorescence properties, low-micromolar dissociation constants for Zn(II), and improved Zn(II) selectivity. Halogenation of the xanthenone and benzoate moieties of the fluorescein platform systematically modulates the excitation and emission profiles, pH-dependent fluorescence, Zn(II) affinity, and Zn(II) complexation rates, offering a general strategy for tuning multiple properties of xanthenone-based metal ion sensors. Extensive biological studies in cultured cells and primary neuronal cultures demonstrate 2-{6-hydroxy-3-oxo-4,5-bis[(pyridin-2-ylmethylthiophen-2-ylmethylamino)methyl]-3H-xanthen-9-yl}benzoic acid (ZS5) to be a versatile imaging tool for detecting Zn(II) in vivo. ZS5 localizes to the mitochondria of HeLa cells and allows visualization of glutamate-mediated Zn(II) uptake in dendrites and Zn(II) release resulting from nitrosative stress in neurons.
Rhythmic spontaneous bursting activity, which occurs in many developing neural circuits, has been considered to be important for the refinement of neural projections but not for early pathfinding decisions. However, the precise frequency of bursting activity differentially affects the two major pathfinding decisions made by chick lumbosacral motoneurons. Moderate slowing of burst frequency was shown previously to cause motoneurons to make dorsoventral (D-V) pathfinding errors and to alter the expression of molecules involved in that decision. Moderate speeding up of activity is shown here not to affect these molecules or D-V pathfinding but to strongly perturb the anteroposterior (A-P) pathfinding process by which motoneurons fasciculate into pool-specific fascicles at the limb base and then selectively grow to muscle targets. Resumption of normal frequency allowed axons to correct the A-P pathfinding errors by altering their trajectories distally, indicating the dynamic nature of this process and its continued sensitivity to patterned activity.
Nitric oxide (NO) is a small, short-lived molecule released from a variety of cells that is implicated in a multitude of biological processes. In pathological conditions, overproduction of NO may lead to the generation of highly reactive species, such as peroxynitrite and stable nitrosothiols, that may cause irreversible cell damage. Accordingly, several studies have suggested that NO may be involved in the pathogenesis of various neuroinflammatory/degenerative diseases. Increased concentrations of NO in the CNS in such cases are usually attributed to an increase in the inducible isoform of NO synthase (iNOS) usually produced by inflammatory cells. However, recent reports have suggested that the constitutive isoforms of NOS, neuronal (nNOS) and endothelial (eNOS), can also play a role. Here we examined the role that the constitutive isoforms of NOS might play in the cuprizone-induced model of demyelination/remyelination. Our results demonstrate that demyelination was greatly prevented in mice lacking nNOS. Protection was associated with a dramatic increase in mature oligodendrocyte survival and a decrease in apoptosis. Moreover, nNOS-/- mice did not respond to cuprizone with the extensive recruitment of microglia/macrophages and astrocytes, which is a typical feature in wild-type mice. Although demyelinating less, nNOS-/- mice exhibited a delay in remyelination. In eNOS-/- mice, demyelination progressed to the same extent as in wild type, but they showed a slight delay in spontaneous remyelination. In conclusion, this study highlights the importance of considering the source of NO when assessing its role in neuroinflammation/degeneration and emphasizes the differing pathological effects driven by the different NOS isoforms.
Disease processes such as infection, leukemia, and autoimmune disorders are often associated with nausea, emesis, and anorexia. A common denominator of these rather disparate states is the production of the early, proinflammatory cytokine tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF) in significant quantities. Recent studies have shown that TNF may act as a neuromodulator in the hindbrain to produce malaise by potentiating visceral afferent signaling at the central processes of the vagus nerve. However, the mechanism by which TNF produces this signal amplification is not known. Our time-lapse calcium imaging studies of individual central vagal afferent varicosities in the caudal brainstem slice preparation show that, although TNF has minimal direct effects to elevate terminal intracellular calcium levels, TNF does potentiate the terminal afferent responses to other stimuli through a ryanodine-based, calcium-induced calcium release mechanism. Such a scheme may explain how TNF sensitizes visceral as well as somatosensory primary afferents.
Pathogenic events in Alzheimer's disease (AD) involve an imbalance between the production and clearance of the neurotoxic beta-amyloid peptide (Abeta), especially the 42 amino acid peptide Abeta1-42. While much is known about the production of Abeta1-42, many questions remain about how the peptide is degraded. To investigate the degradation pattern, we developed a method based on immunoprecipitation combined with matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization time-of-flight mass spectrometry that determines the Abeta degradation fragment pattern in cerebrospinal fluid (CSF). We found in total 18 C-terminally and 2 N-terminally truncated Abeta peptides and preliminary data indicated that there were differences in the detected Abeta relative abundance pattern between AD and healthy controls. Here, we provide direct evidence that an Abeta fragment signature consisting of Abeta1-16, Abeta1-33, Abeta1-39, and Abeta1-42 in CSF distinguishes sporadic AD patients from non-demented controls with an overall accuracy of 86%.
The genetic basis of bipolar disorder (BPD) and schizophrenia (SCZ) has been established through numerous clinical and molecular studies. Although often considered separate nosological entities, evidence now suggests that the two syndromes may share some genetic liability. Recent studies have used a composite phenotype (psychosis) that includes BPD, SCZ, psychosis not otherwise specified, and schizoaffective disorder, to identify shared susceptibility loci. Several chromosomal regions are reported to be shared between these syndromes (18p, 6q, 10p, 13q, 22q). As a part of our endeavor to scan these regions, we report a positive linkage and association finding at 18p11.2 for psychosis. Two-point linkage analysis performed on a series of 52 multiplex pedigrees with 23 polymorphic markers yielded a LOD score of 2.02 at D18S37. An independent set of 159 parent offspring trios was used to confirm this suggestive finding. The TDT analysis yielded support for association between the marker D18S453 and the disease allele (chi2 = 4.829, P &lt; 0.028). This region has been implicated by several studies on BPD [Sjoholt et al. (2004); Mol Psychiatry 9(6):621-629; Washizuka et al. (2004); Biol Psychiatry 56(7):483-489; Pickard et al. (2005); Psychiatr Genet 15(1):37-44], SCZ [Kikuchi et al. (2003); J Med Dent Sci 50(3):225-229; Babovic-Vuksanovic et al. (2004); Am J Med Genet 124(3):318-322] and also as a shared region between the two diseases [Ishiguro et al. (2001); J Neural Transm 108(7):849-854; Reyes et al. (2002); Mol Psychiatry 7(4):337-339; Craddock et al. (2005); J Med Genet 42(3):193-204]. Our findings provide an independent validation of the above reports, and suggest the presence of susceptibility loci for psychoses in this region.


While animal studies suggest that neonatal pain experiences induce long-term alterations in pain sensitivity, no such data exist in humans. Changes in pain sensitivity in school-aged children (9-14 years) who were born preterm or fullterm, had been hospitalized for a prolonged period of time after birth and had undergone repeated painful procedures while being treated in a Neonatal Intensive Care Unit (NICU) were determined. A retrospective cohort study of 19 preterm (&lt;or=31 weeks gestational age) and 20 fullterm children (&gt;or=37 weeks gestational age) treated at least 3 days in a NICU at a University Hospital and 20 fullterm control children without NICU experience was performed. Perceptual sensitization to tonic heat and repetitive mechanical stimuli as well as heat pain and mechanical pain thresholds were obtained at the thenar and a trigeminal site. Length of hospitalization and NICU treatment was significantly higher in preterm than fullterm children. Nonetheless, both preterm and fullterm children with NICU experience showed greater perceptual sensitization to tonic heat and elevated heat pain thresholds at both sites. Mechanical pain threshold and perceptual sensitization did not differ between groups. Consistent with findings in animals, repeated pain experiences during the neonatal period were associated with alterations in thermal pain responsivity in school-aged preterm and fullterm children that was characterized by enhanced perceptual sensitization to prolonged painful stimulation and hypoalgesia to brief heat pain stimuli. Our findings suggest that repeated pain experiences in neonates may induce activity-induced changes in the functioning of pain pathways that persist well beyond infancy.
The influence of potential prognostic factors (occupant- and crash-related factors, initial neck pain intensity and headache, whiplash injury severity, helplessness, locus of control, socioeconomic status) on neck pain intensity (VAS), disability (DRI), anxiety and depression (HADS) was estimated in a cohort of 3704 subjects with whiplash injury following a motor vehicle crash. Questionnaires were administered (baseline, 1-, 6-, 12-, 24-month follow-ups). VAS was trichotomized; &quot;low&quot; (0-30), &quot;moderate&quot; (31-54), &quot;severe&quot; (55-100). A cumulative logit model with a proportional odds assumption was applied. Results regarding depression differed somewhat from the other outcomes. Overall, initial neck pain intensity was an important prognostic factor, but acted also as an evident effect modifier. Females had slightly increased odds for all outcomes but depression, for which no gender differences were shown. Injury severity was associated with all outcomes, but was most pronounced regarding disability among those who perceived numbness/pain in arms/hands and also had severe initial neck pain (proportional odds ratio [OR] 6.5; 95% confidence interval [CI] 2.5-17.0). Initial headache influenced all outcomes. Income was not related to any of the outcomes, whereas a lower level of education was associated with all outcomes but depression. Locus of control was not a factor of importance. In contrast, helplessness was related to all outcomes, but was most pronounced regarding neck pain intensity and depression for subjects with severe initial neck pain (OR 4.8; 95% CI 2.9-7.8; OR 6.6; 95% CI 2.6-17.0). Associations seem to be established early, and then to be relatively constant over time.
The mechanisms in the retina that generate light responses selective for the direction of image motion remain unresolved. Recent evidence indicates that directionally selective light responses occur first in the retina in the dendrites of an interneuron, i.e., the starburst amacrine cell, and that these responses are highly sensitive to the activity of Na-K-2Cl (NKCC) and K-Cl (KCC), two types of chloride cotransporter that determine whether the neurotransmitter GABA depolarizes or hyperpolarizes neurons, respectively. We show here that selective blockade of the NKCC2 and KCC2 cotransporters located on starburst dendrites consistently hyperpolarized and depolarized the starburst cells, respectively, and greatly reduced or eliminated their directionally selective light responses. By mapping NKCC2 and KCC2 antibody staining on these dendrites, we further show that NKCC2 and KCC2 are preferentially located in the proximal and distal dendritic compartments, respectively. Finally, measurements of the GABA reversal potential in different starburst dendritic compartments indicate that the GABA reversal potential at the distal dendrite is more hyperpolarized than at the proximal dendrite due to KCC2 activity. These results thus demonstrate that the differential distribution of NKCC2 on the proximal dendrites and KCC2 on the distal dendrites of starburst cells results in a GABA-evoked depolarization and hyperpolarization at the NKCC2 and KCC2 compartments, respectively, and underlies the directionally selective light responses of the dendrites. The functional compartmentalization of interneuron dendrites may be an important means by which the nervous system encodes complex information at the subcellular level.
By using a paradigm based on metacontrast masking, we created experimental conditions in which the subjective report of consciousness differs but the objectively measured ability to discriminate visual targets does not. This approach allowed us to study the neural correlate of consciousness while having performance levels carefully matched in healthy human subjects. A comparison of the neural activity associated with these conditions as measured by functional MRI showed that conscious perception is associated with spatially specific activity in the mid-dorsolateral prefrontal cortex (area 46). Further analysis confirms that this activation is not only free from any performance confound, but is also not driven by differences in the timing of the physical stimuli. Our results suggest that the prefrontal cortex is important for the essentially subjective aspects of conscious perception.
The restoration of planar cell polarity is an essential but poorly understood step toward physiological recovery during sensory-organ regeneration. Investigating this issue in the lateral line of the zebrafish, we found that hair cells regenerate in pairs along a single axis established by the restricted localization and oriented division of their progenitors. By analyzing mutants lacking the planar-polarity determinant Vangl2, we ascertained that the uniaxial production of hair cells and the subsequent orientation of their hair bundles are controlled by distinct pathways, whose combination underlies the establishment of hair-cell orientation during development and regeneration. This mechanism may represent a general principle governing the long-term maintenance of planar cell polarity in remodeling epithelia.
The molecular mechanism underlying the pathogenesis of the majority of cases of sporadic Alzheimer's disease (AD) is unknown. A history of stroke was found to be associated with development of some AD cases, especially in the presence of vascular risk factors. Reduced cerebral perfusion is a common vascular component among AD risk factors, and hypoxia is a direct consequence of hypoperfusion. Previously we showed that expression of the beta-site beta-amyloid precursor protein (APP) cleavage enzyme 1 (BACE1) gene BACE1 is tightly controlled at both the transcriptional and translational levels and that increased BACE1 maturation contributes to the AD pathogenesis in Down's syndrome. Here we have identified a functional hypoxia-responsive element in the BACE1 gene promoter. Hypoxia up-regulated beta-secretase cleavage of APP and amyloid-beta protein (Abeta) production by increasing BACE1 gene transcription and expression both in vitro and in vivo. Hypoxia treatment markedly increased Abeta deposition and neuritic plaque formation and potentiated the memory deficit in Swedish mutant APP transgenic mice. Taken together, our results clearly demonstrate that hypoxia can facilitate AD pathogenesis, and they provide a molecular mechanism linking vascular factors to AD. Our study suggests that interventions to improve cerebral perfusion may benefit AD patients.
Although transmembrane proteins generally require membrane-embedded machinery for integration, a few can insert spontaneously into liposomes. Previously, we established that the tail-anchored (TA) protein cytochrome b(5) (b5) can posttranslationally translocate 28 residues downstream to its transmembrane domain (TMD) across protein-free bilayers (Brambillasca, S., M. Yabal, P. Soffientini, S. Stefanovic, M. Makarow, R.S. Hegde, and N. Borgese. 2005. EMBO J. 24:2533-2542). In the present study, we investigated the limits of this unassisted translocation and report that surprisingly long (85 residues) domains of different sequence and charge placed downstream of b5's TMD can posttranslationally translocate into mammalian microsomes and liposomes at nanomolar nucleotide concentrations. Furthermore, integration of these constructs occurred in vivo in translocon-defective yeast strains. Unassisted translocation was not unique to b5 but was also observed for another TA protein (protein tyrosine phosphatase 1B) whose TMD, like the one of b5, is only moderately hydrophobic. In contrast, more hydrophobic TMDs, like synaptobrevin's, were incapable of supporting unassisted integration, possibly because of their tendency to aggregate in aqueous solution. Our data resolve long-standing discrepancies on TA protein insertion and are relevant to membrane evolution, biogenesis, and physiology.
Fas receptor is a member of the tumor necrosis factor-alpha family of death receptors that mediate physiologic apoptotic signaling. To investigate the molecular mechanisms regulating calcium mobilization during Fas-mediated apoptosis, we have analyzed the sequential steps leading to altered calcium homeostasis and cell death in response to activation of the Fas receptor. We show that Fas-mediated apoptosis requires endoplasmic reticulum-mediated calcium release in a mechanism dependent on phospholipase C-gamma1 (PLC-gamma1) activation and Ca2+ release from inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate receptor (IP3R) channels. The kinetics of Ca2+ release were biphasic, demonstrating a rapid elevation caused by PLC-gamma1 activation and a delayed and sustained increase caused by cytochrome c binding to IP3R. Blocking either phase of Ca2+ mobilization was cytoprotective, highlighting PLC-gamma1 and IP3R as possible therapeutic targets for disorders associated with Fas signaling.
Oral ulcerative mucositis is a common and painful toxicity associated with chemotherapy for cancer. Current treatment for chemotherapy-induced oral mucositis is largely palliative, and no adequate treatment with conclusive evidence exists. The purpose of this study was to evaluate the potential effectiveness of the topical external medicines used in clinical settings, and the authors investigated the effects of 1% azulene ointment, 0.12% dexamethasone ointment, and polaprezinc-sodium alginate suspension on an animal model for oral mucositis induced by chemotherapy. Oral mucositis was induced in hamsters through a combination treatment of 5-fluorouracil and mild abrasion of the cheek pouch. Each drug was administered topically to the oral mucosa of hamsters, and the process of healing of damaged oral mucositis was examined by measuring the size of the mucositis. Azulene ointment did not reduce the size of the mucositis compared with the vaseline-treated control group. Polaprezinc-sodium alginate suspension significantly improved the recovery from 5-fluorouracil-induced damage. In contrast, local treatment with dexamethasone exacerbated the mucositis markedly. These results suggested the healing effect of polaprezinc-sodium alginate suspension and the risk of steroids to severe oral mucositis induced by chemotherapy.
Although the involvement of cannabinoids and the endogenous cannabinoid system in the regulation of the hypothalamo-pituitary-adrenal axis in rodents is well documented, the precise role played by the cannabinoid type one (CB(1)) receptor in this effect has not been fully elucidated. Consequently, we investigated the role of CB(1) receptor in modulating plasma corticosterone concentrations through use of the potent and selective CB(1) receptor antagonist SR141716A and CB(1) receptor knockout mice. Rats were administered SR141716A (0.1, 0.3, and 1 mg/kg, i.v.) and blood was sampled at 0, 15, 60, 90 and 120 min postinjection. SR141716A dose- and time-dependently increased plasma corticosterone levels and maximum effects were obtained with the 1 mg/kg dose 60 min postinjection. In mice, SR141716A (0.1, 0.3, 1, 3, and 10 mg/kg, i.p.) also induced a dose-dependent rise in corticosterone levels 60 min postinjection; this rise reached plateau levels with the 0.3-1 mg/kg doses. The stimulatory effect of SR141716A (1 mg/kg, i.p.) on plasma corticosterone 60 min postinjection was abolished in the CB(1) receptor knockout mice, which did not show any difference in basal corticosterone levels as compared to their wild-type controls. Finally, the stimulatory effects of SR141716A (10 mg/kg, i.p.) on plasma corticosterone 60 min postinjection were retained after subchronic dosing (5 days, once daily) in mice. The present results indicate that SR141716A increases plasma corticosterone in rats and mice possibly through blockade of CB(1) receptors, an effect that is retained after subchronic dosing in mice. These data provide support for the notion that changes in plasma corticosterone concentrations may be used in the laboratory and the clinic to assess the effects of CB(1) receptor antagonism.
Jealous love and morbid jealousy, although inextricably linked, cannot be considered the same: jealous love (trait jealousy) is the behavioral and cognitive-affective precondition of morbid jealousy (state jealousy). Love is jealous when it is devoured by the desire for the exclusive and total possession of the partner, whose unconditional and continued presence is avidly requested. This type of love, in addition, is permeated by the need to know what the other is thinking, in order to scrutinize every minimal flaw in the faithfulness of the partner even in his or her innermost thoughts and fantasies; in it, jealousy is virtually always present, even in the absence of a triggering event, because captative love, by its very nature, includes the expectation of a conflict which inevitably actually takes place in reality. Finally, jealousy emerges as an emotional event (jealous flash) in response to a more or less significant change in the behavior of the partner, and reveals to the jealous individual a dimension which was previously latent or inexistent. This intense and brief experience, leaves a more or less blurred memory behind, and tends to progressively repeat itself and take root as a feeling.
Neurological manifestations in Paget's disease are rare. Hydrocephalus is infrequent, its etiology in Paget's disease being multi-factorial. Surgical and anesthetic procedures may be challenging, requiring special precautions. We describe one such case and discuss these peculiarities. An elderly lady, diagnosed to have Paget's disease presented with features of recent onset dementia, gait disturbances with urinary incontinence. Hydrocephalus secondary to posterior fossa crowding was present. A ventriculo-peritoneal shunt was inserted. Endotracheal intubation proved to be difficult. Modification of the surgical technique was required to ensure a safe procedure. She improved immediately following CSF diversion. Timely CSF diversion yields good results. Certain precautions during anesthesia and surgery can ensure a safe and uneventful peri-operative period.

Individual drug responses are the result of interactions of multiple environmental and genetic factors. Pharmacogenetics studies the influence of genetic variation on interindividual differences in drug efficacy, adverse events and dosing. This article discusses general strategies for candidate gene selection and pharmacogenetic association studies. A summary of the major pharmacogenetic associations reported in neuropsychiatric disease is presented. The example of epilepsy pharmacogenetics will be covered in more detail, including an overview of epilepsy pharmacogenetic candidate genes and results of association studies reported so far. With the advent of large-scale, rigorously designed association studies, it is hoped that genetic factors will be identified that will lead to a targeted, more efficacious and safer treatment, and perhaps to the development of new and more efficacious drugs for neuropsychiatric diseases.



Doxycycline exhibits various effects apart from its antimicrobial activity, such as inhibition of matrix metalloproteinases (MMPs). MMPs, mainly collagenases and gelatinases, are capable of degrading virtually all constituents of the extracellular matrix and are critical to connective tissue remodelling and healing. We therefore hypothesised that doxycycline would negatively influence the rat tendon healing process and impede tendon regeneration. The Achilles tendon of 60 Sprague Dawley rats was transected transversely. The animals were treated with doxycycline, 130 mg/kg body weight/day. The healing tendons were evaluated mechanically at 5, 8 and 14 days. Doxycycline significantly decreased force at failure (p &lt; 0.005) and energy uptake (p &lt; 0.001). Doxycycline serum concentration was 3.4 (SD 1.0) microg/ml. In conclusion, tendon healing can be affected by doxycycline at clinically relevant serum concentrations. This observation might be of relevance to further studies exploring effects of MMP-inhibitors on tendon tissue.



During the last five years the use of acupuncture in female infertility as an adjuvant to conventional treatment in assisted reproductive technology (ART) has increased in popularity. The present paper briefly discusses clinical and experimental data on the effect of acupuncture on uterine and ovarian blood flow, as an analgesic method during ART, and on endocrine and metabolic disturbances such as polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS). Further it gives a summary of recent studies evaluating the effect of acupuncture before and after embryo transfer on pregnancy outcome. Of the four published RCTs, three reveal significantly higher pregnancy rates in the acupuncture groups compared with the control groups. But the use of different study protocols makes it difficult to draw definitive conclusions. It seems, however, that acupuncture has a positive effect and no adverse effects on pregnancy outcome.
Peer leading of small-group discussion of cases; use of modified subjective, objective, assessment of physiology (SOAP) notes; and opportunities for self-assessment were introduced into a Medical Physiology course to increase students' awareness and practice of professional behaviors. These changes arose from faculty members' understanding of the hidden curriculum and their efforts to reveal it to take increased advantage of its educationally beneficial aspects. Faculty members and students observed that the requirement for students to submit SOAP notes before their discussions meant that they were well prepared to participate. Student satisfaction with the protocol was high, with &gt;95% of the students agreeing that discussants were well prepared and that the overall performance of their discussion group was good. A comparison of students' performance on selected exam questions showed that peer leading was equally as effective as a previously used teacher-centered approach. Students agreed that their ability to analyze a clinical case had improved using this protocol, an effect that persisted at least one semester after the end of the course. These approaches were time and cost efficient from a faculty perspective while serving the needs of the students. The use of SOAP notes and peer-led discussion were effective forms of instruction, in which students succeeded in learning medical physiology and in practicing professional behaviors.
Although human endogenous retroviruses (HERVs) constitute 8% of the human genome, their role(s) in health and disease remain uncertain. Nonetheless, increased HERV gene activity has been reported in neuroinflammatory diseases such as multiple sclerosis (MS). The human endogenous retrovirus (HERV)-W7q envelope gene encodes a glycosylated envelope protein, syncytin-1, which is expressed in many tissues. Analysis of HERV envelopes (env) revealed a selectively increased abundance of syncytin-1 encoding RNA in brains from patients with MS (p&lt;0.01) relative to non-MS patients. However, HERV env expression from blood-derived leukocytes did not differ between groups. A quantitative PCR-based assay for syncytin-1 RNA showed that median viral RNA levels were higher in brains of MS patients (5.0 log10 copies/microg RNA) relative to non-MS patients (4.6 log10 copies/microg RNA) (p&lt;0.05). Median syncytin-1 DNA levels in MS brains (9.8 log10/microg DNA) were higher than non-MS brain tissue (7.9 log10/microg DNA) (p&lt;0.001) without evidence of new integration events. In contrast, there were no differences in syncytin-1 RNA copy numbers between groups in both CSF (non-MS: 5.0 log10/ml versus MS: 3.8 log10/ml) and plasma (non-MS: 5.033 log10/ml versus MS: 2.9 log10/ml). These observations emphasize the selective induction of syncytin-1 in brain tissue of MS patients but also illustrate the complex dynamics of this retroelement in neuroinflammatory processes.


Dementia in young adults is not very well studied in terms of clinical effects on the patient, and not much is known about the effects on spouses and caregivers. This study assessed the psychological impact of the diagnosis of young onset dementia on spouses. A questionnaire that used the Zarit Burden Interview and the Beck Depression Index was sent to 120 spouses of a cohort of patients with established diagnoses of young onset dementia (age of onset before 65 years), including frontotemporal lobar degeneration, Alzheimer's disease, and primary progressive aphasia. A total of 100 usable responses were received. The mean age of respondents was 62.3 years (54% women, 46% men). A cross-sectional analysis showed that the diagnosis of young onset dementia has a significant impact on spouses, characterized by concerns of dependency, fear, and increased depression, especially in the spouses of patients with frontotemporal lobar degeneration.
Emergency or &quot;stat&quot; EEGs are ordered on patients who are suspected to have serious acute brain dysfunction (ABD). Often, these patients are comatose or have some altered level of consciousness (ALOC) from stroke, brain hemorrhage, head trauma, encephalopathy, seizures, or status epilepticus--which may be convulsive (SE) or non-convulsive (NCSE). As the number of stat EEGs increases, consider alternatives to traditional methods and tools, keeping overall patient care and outcome in mind.


Increased leukocyte trafficking into the parenchyma during inflammatory responses in the central nervous system (CNS) is facilitated by the extracellular proteolytic activities of matrix metalloproteinases that are regulated, in part, by the endogenous tissue inhibitors of metalloproteinases (TIMPs). In experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE), TIMP-1 gene expression is induced in astrocytes surrounding inflammatory lesions in the CNS. The physiological importance of this temporal and spatial relationship is not clear. Herein, we have addressed the functional role of TIMP-1 in a myelin oligodendrocyte glycoprotein (MOG35-55)-induced model of EAE using TIMP-1-deficient (TIMP-1-/-) C57BL/6 mice. Although CD4+ T-cell immune responses to myelin in wild-type (WT) and TIMP-1-/- mice were similar, analysis of CNS tissues from TIMP-1-/- mice after EAE revealed more severe myelin pathology than that of WT mice. This disruption of myelin was associated with both increased lymphocyte infiltration and microglial/macrophage accumulation in the brain parenchyma. These findings suggest that induction of TIMP-1 by astrocytes during EAE in WT mice represents an inherent cytoprotective response that mitigates CNS myelin injury through the regulation of both immune cell infiltration and microglial activation.
In this study, epididymal adipose tissue from male annexin 1 (ANXA1)-null and wild-type control mice were used to explore the potential role of ANXA1 in adipocyte biology. ANXA1 was detected by Western blot analysis in wild-type tissue and localized predominantly to the stromal-vascular compartment. Epididymal fat pad mass was reduced by ANXA1 gene deletion, but adipocyte size was unchanged, suggesting that ANXA1 is required for the maintenance of adipocyte and/or preadipocyte cell number. Epididymal tissue from wild-type mice responded in vitro to noradrenaline and isoprenaline with increased glycerol release, reduced IL-6 release, and increased cAMP accumulation. Qualitatively similar but significantly attenuated responses to the catecholamines were observed in tissue from ANXA1-null mice, an effect that was not associated with changes in beta-adrenoceptor mRNA expression. Lipopolysaccharide (LPS) also stimulated lipolysis in vitro, but its effects were muted by ANXA1 gene deletion. By contrast, LPS failed to influence IL-6 release from wild-type tissue but stimulated the release of the cytokine from tissue from ANXA1-null mice. ANXA1 gene deletion did not affect glucocorticoid receptor expression or the ability of dexamethasone to suppress catecholamine-induced lipolysis. It did, however, augment IL-6 expression and modify the inhibitory effects of glucocorticoids on IL-6 release. Collectively, these studies suggest that ANXA1 supports aspects of adipose tissue mass and alters the sensitivity of epididymal adipose tissue to catecholamines, glucocorticoids, and LPS, thereby modulating lipolysis and IL-6 release.
Fundic tone is maintained through a balance of excitatory and inhibitory input to fundic smooth muscle. The aim of this study was to determine the role of serotonin (5-HT) and 5-HT receptors in modulating murine fundic tone. Muscle strips were prepared from the murine fundus. Intracellular recordings were made from circular smooth muscle cells, and the effects of 5-HT on tone and excitatory and inhibitory junction potentials evoked by electrical field stimulation (EFS) were determined. 5-HT induced a concentration-dependent contraction and smooth muscle depolarization that was tetrodotoxin resistant. The 5-HT(1B/D) receptor antagonists GR-127935 and BRL-155172 significantly inhibited 5-HT-induced contractions. The 5-HT(1B/D) agonist sumatriptan contracted murine fundic muscle. The 5-HT(1A) receptor agonist buspirone relaxed fundic smooth muscle, and the relaxation was inhibited by WAY-100135 but not by N(omega)-nitro-l-arginine or tetrodotoxin. 5-HT enhanced both the excitatory and inhibitory responses to EFS. The 5-HT(3) receptor antagonist MDL-72222 partly inhibited both the excitatory and inhibitory response elicited by EFS, whereas the 5-HT(4) receptor antagonist GR-113808 partly inhibited the EFS-evoked inhibitory response. The 5-HT reuptake inhibitor fluoxetine contracted smooth muscle strips, a contraction that was partially inhibited by GR-127935 and abolished by tetrodotoxin. In conclusion, the data suggest that 5-HT modulates murine fundic contractile activity through several different receptor subtypes. Sustained release of 5-HT maintains fundic tone through postjunctional 5-HT(1B/D) receptors. 5-HT(3) receptors modulate excitatory neural input to murine fundic smooth muscle, and both 5-HT(3) and 5-HT(4) receptors modulate inhibitory neural input to murine fundic smooth muscle.
We tested the hypothesis that fetal cardiovascular responses to hypoxemia change close to full term in relation to the prepartum increase in fetal basal cortisol and investigated, in vivo, the neural and endocrine mechanisms underlying these changes. Fetal heart rate and peripheral hemodynamic responses to 1 h of hypoxemia were studied in 25 chronically instrumented sheep within three narrow gestational age ranges: 125-130 (n = 13), 135-140 (n = 6), and &gt;140 (n = 6) days (full term approximately 145 days). Chemoreflex function and plasma concentrations of vasoconstrictor hormones were measured. Reductions in fetal arterial Po(2) during hypoxemia were similar at all ages. At 125-130 days, hypoxemia elicited transient bradycardia, femoral vasoconstriction, and increases in plasma concentrations of catecholamines, neuropeptide Y (NPY), AVP, ACTH, and cortisol. Close to full term, in association with the prepartum increase in fetal basal cortisol, there was a developmental increase in the magnitude and persistence of fetal bradycardia and in the magnitude of the femoral constrictor response to hypoxemia. The mechanisms mediating these changes close to full term included increases in the gain of chemoreflex function and in the magnitudes of the fetal NPY and AVP responses to hypoxemia. Data combined irrespective of gestational age revealed significant correlations between fetal basal cortisol and fetal bradycardia, femoral resistance, chemoreflex function, and plasma AVP concentrations. The data show that the fetal cardiovascular defense to hypoxemia changes in pattern and magnitude just before full term because of alterations in the gain of the neural and endocrine mechanisms mediating them, in parallel with the prepartum increase in fetal basal cortisol.
Central nervous system neurons process information converging from the uterus, colon, and bladder, partly via the hypogastric nerve. This processing is influenced by the estrous cycle, suggesting the existence of an estrous-modifiable central nervous system substrate by which input from one pelvic organ can influence functioning of other pelvic organs. Here, we tested predictions from this hypothesis that acute inflammation of colon, uterine horn, or bladder would produce signs of inflammation in the other uninflamed organs (increase vascular permeability) and that cross-organ effects would vary with estrous and be eliminated by hypogastric neurectomy (HYPX). Under urethane anesthesia, the colon, uterine horn, or bladder of rats in proestrus or metestrus, with or without prior HYPX, was treated with mustard oil or saline. Two hours later, Evans Blue dye extravasation was measured to assess vascular permeability. Extravasation was increased in all inflamed organs, regardless of estrous stage. For rats in proestrus, but not metestrus, either colon or uterine horn inflammation significantly increased extravasation in the uninflamed bladder. Much smaller cross-organ effects were seen in colon and uterine horn. HYPX reduced extravasation in the inflamed colon and inflamed uterine horn, but not the inflamed bladder. HYPX eliminated the colon-to-bladder and uterine horn-to-bladder effects. These results demonstrate that inflaming one pelvic organ can produce estrous-modifiable signs of inflammation in other pelvic organs, particularly bladder, and suggest that the cross-organ effects involve the hypogastric nerve and are at least partly centrally mediated. Such effects could contribute to co-occurrence and cyclicity of distressing pelvic disorders in women.
In parallel with increased prevalence of overweight people in affluent societies are individuals trying to lose weight, often using low-carbohydrate diets. Nevertheless, long-term metabolic consequences of those diets, usually high in (saturated) fat, remain unclear. Therefore, we investigated long-term effects of high-fat diets with different carbohydrate/protein ratios on energy balance and fuel homeostasis in obese (fa/fa) Zucker and lean Wistar rats. Animals were fed high-carbohydrate (HC), high-fat (HsF), or low-carbohydrate, high-fat, high-protein (LC-HsF-HP) diets for 60 days. Both lines fed the LC-HsF-HP diet displayed reduced energy intake compared with those fed the HsF diet (Zucker, -3.7%) or the HC diet (Wistar rats, -12.4%). This was not associated with lower weight gain relative to HC fed rats, because of increased food efficiencies in each line fed HsF and particularly LC-HsF-HP food. Zucker rats were less glucose tolerant than Wistar rats. Lowest glucose tolerances were found in HsF and particularly in LC-HsF-HP-fed animals irrespective of line, but this paralleled reduced plasma adiponectin levels, elevated plasma resistin levels, higher retroperitoneal fat masses, and reduced insulin sensitivity (indexed by insulin-induced hypoglycemia) only in Wistar rats. In Zucker rats, however, improved insulin responses during glucose tolerance testing and tendency toward increased insulin sensitivities were observed with HsF or LC-HsF-HP feeding relative to HC feeding. Thus, despite adverse consequences of LC-HsF diets on blood glucose homeostasis, principal differences exist in the underlying hormonal regulatory mechanisms, which could have benefits for B-cell functioning and insulin action in the obese state but not in the lean state.


Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) has a fatal outcome in about three years, but survival is known to vary considerably, making it difficult to predict disease duration in individual cases. The aim of this study was to investigate possible early prognostic factors of ALS survival. We included 123 probable or definite cases of ALS, with disease onset between 1989 and 1998, and with a follow-up of at least one year. Survival functions were obtained using both the Kaplan-Meier and the actuarial methods. Subgroups, formed on the basis of gender, area of residence, work, and age at and site of onset, were compared using the logrank test and Cox's proportional hazards method (survival functions), and applying the Grizzle, Starmer, Koch (1969), and Koch, Johnson, Tolley (1972) methods (one-year survival probability trends). The survival curves dipped sharply in the first three years, followed by a flattening trend, with 50% of patients dying within 2.5 years, and 89% over seven years. The clinical form with lower limb onset was associated with longer survival than the upper limb onset and bulbar forms (median survival: 39, 27, and 25 months, respectively). Survival was also affected by age at onset (median survival: 34, 27, and 23 months for onset &lt;60, 60-75, and &gt;75 years, respectively), area of residence (median survival: 24 months in mountainous areas, 32 elsewhere), and type of work (median survival: 25 months in agricultural workers, 33.5 in others). Gender did not influence survival, whereas percutaneous endoscopic gastrostomy placement and invasive ventilation did. The estimation of individual ALS survival is important to allow the patient to plan for his future and to make optimal use of medical and community resources. Although age at and site of onset, area of residence, and agricultural work were found to influence survival, there remains an unexplained heterogeneous progression of the disease, suggesting the influence of other, as yet unknown, prognostic factors. The identification of a definite set of prognostic factors may allow physicians to make more reliable survival predictions at diagnosis.
Symptoms of nocturnal hypoventilation may negatively influence the quality of life (QoL) of ALS patients long before respiratory failure ensues. Non-invasive mechanical ventilation (NIV) is considered a treatment option for nocturnal hypoventilation. The primary objective of NIV is improving quality of life (QoL). It may also prolong life by several months. A systematic review of the literature was performed to analyse what is known of the effect of NIV on survival, QoL and other outcome measures. A computerized literature search was performed to identify controlled clinical trials and observational studies of treatment of ALS-associated nocturnal hypoventilation from 1985 until May 2005. Twelve studies fulfilled the inclusion criteria. Four studies were retrospective, seven prospective and in one study randomization was used. All studies reported beneficial effects of NIV on all outcome measures. In seven studies NIV was associated with prolonged survival in patients tolerant for NIV, and five studies reported an improved QoL. In conclusion, studies on the use of NIV in ALS differ in study design and endpoint definitions. All studies suggest a beneficial effect on QoL and other outcome measures (Evidence level Class II-III). Well-designed randomized controlled trials comparing the effect on QoL and survival have not been performed.
A simple assay for monoacylglycerol hydrolysis suitable for high-throughput screening is described. The assay uses [(3)H]2-oleoylglycerol as substrate, with the tritium label in the glycerol part of the molecule and the use of phenyl sepharose gel to separate the hydrolyzed product ([(3)H]glycerol) from substrate. Using cytosolic fractions derived from rat cerebella as a source of hydrolytic activity, the assay gives the appropriate pH profile and sensitivity to inhibition with compounds known to inhibit hydrolysis of this substrate. The assay could also be adapted to a 96-well plate format, using C6 cells as the source of hydrolytic activity. Thus the assay is simple and appropriate for high-throughput screening of inhibitors of monoacylglycerol hydrolysis.

Resilient functioning, the attainment of unexpected competence despite significant adversity, is among the most intriguing and adaptive phenomena of human development. Although growing attention has been paid to discovering the processes through which individuals at high risk do not develop maladaptively, the empirical study of resilience has focused predominantly on detecting the psychosocial determinants of the phenomenon. For the field of resilience to grow in ways that are commensurate with the complexity inherent to the construct, efforts to understand underlying processes will be facilitated by the increased implementation of interdisciplinary research designed within a developmental psychopathology framework. Research of this nature would entail a consideration of psychological, biological, and environmental-contextual processes from which pathways to resilience might eventuate (known as equifinality), as well as those that result in diverse outcomes among individuals who have achieved resilient functioning (know as multifinality). The possible relation between the mechanisms of neural plasticity and resilience and specific suggestions concerning research questions needed to examine this association are discussed. Examples from developmental neuroscience and molecular genetics are provided to illustrate the potential of incorporating biology into the study of resilience. The importance of adopting a multiple-levels-of-analysis perspective for designing and evaluating interventions aimed at fostering resilient outcomes in persons facing significant adversity is emphasized.
This article synthesizes research on resilience theory and its implications for prevention interventions to increase resilience in high-risk children and adolescents. In addition, this response to both the articles by Drs. Greenberg and Dishion summarizes their key points. Their papers discuss the neuroscience substrate behind two major mediators of antisocial behaviors, namely lack of self-regulation and executive function problems. In addition, we present an overall Resilience Framework that will help the reader organize the aspects of resilience discussed by these two researchers into a transactional process model. This article extends prior researchers' suggestion that resilience is the product of the interaction of genetic, biological, and environmental precursors to a further consideration of higher-level cognitive precursors, such as purpose in life and existential meaning. The relevance of resilience to the prevention of negative outcomes in high-risk children of alcoholics (COAs) and substance abusers is covered. Within this third wave of resilience research on prevention interventions, we present data suggesting that family strengthening approaches have the greatest impact on increasing resilience.
Preventive interventions focus on reducing risk and promoting protective factors in the child as well as their cultural ecologies (family, classroom, school, peer groups, neighborhood, etc). By improving competencies in both the child and their contexts many of these interventions promote resilience. Although there are now a substantial number of preventive interventions that reduce problem behaviors and build competencies across childhood and adolescence, there has been little integration with recent findings in neuropsychology and neuroscience. This article focuses on the integration of prevention research and neuroscience in the context of interventions that promote resilience by improving the executive functions (EF); inhibitory control, planning, and problem solving skills, emotional regulation, and attentional capacities of children and youth. Illustrations are drawn from recent randomized controlled trials of the Promoting Alternative Thinking Strategies (PATHS) curriculum. The discussion focuses on the next steps in transdisciplinary research in prevention and social neuroscience.
This chapter focuses on the concept of self-regulation as a measure of resilience in children and adolescents. Developmental psychology and neuroscience are converging on the role of attention control as a central ability underlying self-regulation. We collected measures of adolescent attention control from parents and youth, and a measure of self-regulation from teachers. The measures of effortful attention correlated highly with teacher ratings of self-regulation. The composite measure of self-regulation (youth, parent, teacher report) was found to moderate the impact of peer deviance on adolescent antisocial behavior, as well as stress on adolescent depression. These findings suggest that self-regulation is a promising index of adolescent resilience. The construct of self-regulation also provides an excellent target for strategies aimed to improve child and adolescent adjustment in problematic environments and stressful circumstances.
The first three waves of research on resilience in development, largely behavioral in focus, contributed a compelling set of concepts and methods, a surprisingly consistent body of findings, provocative issues and controversies, and clues to promising areas for the next wave of resilience research linking biology and neuroscience to behavioral adaptation in development. Behavioral investigators honed the definitions and assessments of risk, adversity, competence, developmental tasks, protective factors, and other key aspects of resilience, as they sought to understand how some children overcome adversity to do well in life. Their findings implicate fundamental adaptive systems, which in turn suggest hot spots for the rising fourth wave of integrative research on resilience in children, focused on processes studied at multiple levels of analysis and across species.




The Paced Auditory Serial Addition Task (PASAT) is a cognitive task purported to measure working memory, speed of information processing, and sustained and divided attention (Spreen, O. &amp; Strauss, E. (1998). A compendium of neuropsychological tests: administration, norms, and commentary (2nd ed.). New York, NY: Oxford University Press.) The current study examined whether treating late responses on the PASAT as correct or as incorrect can significantly affect the outcome of the test in individuals with Multiple Sclerosis (MS). Subjects consisted of 59 individuals with MS and 37 healthy controls (HC). Scoring method was found to affect the number of individuals who were considered impaired on the PASAT. When participants were penalized for late responses significantly more participants, in both groups, were found to be impaired on the 2s trial of the task (MS: p&lt;0.01; HC: p&lt;0.05). Results indicate that that the specific scoring of the PASAT should be reported in studies that use the test.
Taste signals are first detected by the taste receptor cells, which are located in taste buds existing in the tongue, soft palate, larynx and epiglottis. Taste receptor cells contact with the chemical compounds in oral cavity through the apical processes which protrude into the taste pore. Interaction between chemical compounds and the taste receptor produces activation of taste receptor cells directly or indirectly. Then the signals are transmitted to gustatory nerve fibers and higher order neurons. A recent study demonstrated many similarities between response properties of taste receptor cells with action potentials and those of the gustatory nerve fibers innervating them, suggesting information derived from receptor cells generating action potentials may form a major component of taste information that is transmitted to gustatory nerve fibers. These findings may also indicate that there is no major modification of taste information sampled by taste receptor cells in synaptic transmission from taste cells to nerve fibers although there is indirect evidence. In the peripheral taste system, gustatory nerve fibers may selectively contact with taste receptor cells that have similar response properties and convey constant taste information to the higher order neurons.

We review our experience with the application of magnetoencephalography (MEG) to the study of reorganization of the mechanisms supporting auditory language comprehension. In 3 studies, patient populations with cerebral insult of differing etiology, including epilepsy, surgical resection, and stroke, performed a running recognition task for spoken words while MEG data were collected using a whole-head magnetometer. Increased activation in the right hemisphere after left temporal lobectomy was associated with greater relative activation in that hemisphere preoperatively. Patients with chronic seizure disorder secondary to mesial temporal sclerosis exhibited a tendency toward an interhemispheric shift of language function, and those with epilepsy secondary to neoplasm showed a tendency toward an intrahemispheric shift. Patients with aphasia secondary to unilateral left-hemisphere stroke exhibited a more bilateral and diffuse overall profile of activation within the left hemisphere than control subjects of similar age. Taken together, results provide evidence that reorganization of cortex subserving auditory comprehension can occur well into the fifth and sixth decades and that the nature of the plastic response is dependent on variables such as premorbid language laterality, etiology, and, in specific groups, age at insult.




Advanced brain imaging technologies have been used recently to investigate neuroplasticity in relation to recovery and treatment of neurologic injury and disease. The contributors to this supplement present data and synthesize the extant literature on the use of functional magnetic resonance imaging, magnetic resonance spectroscopy, optical imaging, transcranial magnetic stimulation, and transcranial direct current stimulation to study remodeling of cortical representation of motor and cognitive abilities after stroke and other etiologies of neurologic impairment. In general, the collective findings of these studies support use-dependent neuroplasticity as a mechanism of recovery and response to training. Brain imaging findings support the role of training effects on increased activation of brain regions ipsilateral to unilateral vascular lesions in facilitating recovery from stroke. The articles in this supplement also report the potential therapeutic application of stimulation techniques to enhance reorganization of function.
The visual system of the American horseshoe crab Limulus polyphemus (L. polyphemus) is an important preparation for studying the photoresponse, the circadian modulation of the photoresponse and visual information processing. Given its unique position in phylogeny the structure of its visual system also informs studies of the relationships among arthropods and the characteristics of eurarthropods. Much has been learned about the organization of the relatively simple L. polyphemus visual system, but much remains to be discovered. This review summarizes current knowledge of the structure of L. polyphemus eyes and the organization of their afferent and efferent projections and points to important unanswered questions.

Induction of immediate early gene (IEG) expression is believed to constitute one of the earliest steps in plasticity and long-term modification of neuronal properties. Although behavioral evidence of neuronal plasticity at the sublesional level after spinal cord injury exists, spatiotemporal changes of IEGs in spinal segments located caudally to such an injury have never been examined. Here, the authors studied spatiotemporal changes of c-fos, nor-1, nur77, nurr1, and retinoid x receptor (rxr) messenger RNA expression in the lumbar segments L1-L2 after low-thoracic spinal transection (Tx). C-fos expression generally increased in the dorsal horn with significant levels reached at 3 days and 14 days post-Tx. Basal nor-1 transcript levels decreased in the intermediate zone and dorsal horn areas at 7 days. Nur77 levels were nonsignificantly depressed throughout that period of time, whereas nurr1 and rxr transcripts were not detected before or after Tx. In conclusion, the results provide evidence of distinct roles for c-fos and nor-1 in reorganization and plasticity of neuronal networks typically involved in sensorimotor integration and locomotor control.
Acute drug stimulation has been proposed to be an endophenotype for drug abuse. The authors previously reported the short-term selective breeding of lines of mice for low (LMACT) and high (HMACT) stimulation to methamphetamine (MA). These mice were used to examine whether common genes influence the locomotor response to MA and ethanol. Additionally, the authors tested these mice for ethanol drinking, locomotor sensitization, and clearance. LMACT mice were less stimulated by ethanol and consumed more ethanol than HMACT mice, but the lines did not differ in ethanol-induced sensitization. A small difference in ethanol clearance rate (0.1 mg/ml/h) likely had little impact on behavior. Some common genes may influence the locomotor response to MA and ethanol, as well as ethanol drinking.
Using a 5-odorant identification confusion matrix task, the authors assessed the consequence of olfactory epithelial damage on odorant quality perception in the rat. After establishing prelesion identification performance, each rat's epithelium was subjected to 330 ppm methyl bromide gas for 6 hr. Comparison of prelesion and 3-day postlesion performance demonstrated a significant decrease in identification as a consequence of 95%-98% epithelial destruction. Further, there was a differential effect of lesion on the ability of different animals to identify the different individual odorants. Evaluation of the anatomical state of the epithelium relative to performance on the identification task demonstrated a significant relationship between the extent and location of anatomical sparing and changes in individual odorant identifications. Assessment of pre- and postlesion quality perception for the individual rats demonstrated a highly significant shift in quality perception that was independent of any decrease in performance. These results provide strong support for the proposition that the regional variations in mucosal sensitivities within and across olfactory receptor gene expression zones are fundamentally important for the encoding of odorant quality.
Odorants and their perceptions differ along multiple dimensions, requiring that a critical examination of any putative neural code directly assess the multidimensional nature of the encoding process. Previous work has examined simple, systematic odorant differences that, regardless of coding strategy, would be expected to produce simple, systematic predictions in neural and behavioral responses. In the present study, an odorant identification confusion matrix task that extracts precise quality relationships across odorants was used to determine whether spatially specific glomerular activity patterns predict perceptual quality relationships for odorants that cannot easily be classified a priori along a single chemical dimension. Multidimensional scaling (MDS) analysis of odorant pattern similarity measures derived from the comparison of [14C]-2-deoxyglucose glomerular activity pattern data yielded a two-dimensional odorant activity space that was highly significantly predictive of similarly obtained odorant perceptual spaces, uniformly across animals. These results strongly support the relevance of global spatial patterns in the olfactory bulb to the encoding of odor quality.
To our knowledge, no psychotherapy treatment studies for compulsive buying have been published. The authors conducted a pilot trial comparing the efficacy of a group cognitive behavioral intervention designed for the treatment of compulsive buying to a waiting list control. Twenty-eight subjects were assigned to receive active treatment and 11 to the waiting list control group. The results at the end of treatment showed significant advantages for cognitive behavioral therapy (CBT) over the waiting list in reductions in the number of compulsive buying episodes and time spent buying, as well as scores on the Yale-Brown Obsessive Compulsive Scale--Shopping Version and the Compulsive Buying Scale. Improvement was well-maintained at 6-month follow-up. The pilot data suggests that a cognitive behavioral intervention can be quite effective in the treatment of compulsive buying disorder. This model requires further testing.
Transport of the co-substrate UDPGA (UDP-glucuronic acid) into the lumen of the endoplasmic reticulum is an essential step in glucuronidation reactions due to the intraluminal location of the catalytic site of the enzyme UGT (UDP-glucuronosyltransferase). In the present study, we have characterized the function of several NSTs (nucleotide sugar transporters) and UGTs as potential carriers of UDPGA for glucuronidation reactions. UDPGlcNAc (UDP-N-acetylglucosamine)-dependent UDPGA uptake was found both in rat liver microsomes and in microsomes prepared from the rat hepatoma cell line H4IIE. The latency of UGT activity in microsomes derived from rat liver and V79 cells expressing UGT1A6 correlated well with mannose-6-phosphatase latency, confirming the UGT in the recombinant cells retained a physiology similar to rat liver microsomes. In the present study, four cDNAs coding for NSTs were obtained; two were previously reported (UGTrel1 and UGTrel7) and two newly identified (huYEA4 and huYEA4S). Localization of NSTs within the human genome sequence revealed that huYEA4S is an alternatively spliced form of huYEA4. All the cloned NSTs were stably expressed in V79 (Chinese hamster fibroblast) cells, and were able to transport UDPGA after preloading of isolated microsomal vesicles with UDPGlcNAc. The highest uptake was seen with UGTrel7, which displayed a V(max) approx. 1% of rat liver microsomes. Treatment of H4IIE cells with beta-naphthoflavone induced UGT protein expression but did not affect the rate of UDPGA uptake. Furthermore, microsomes from UGT1-deficient Gunn rat liver showed UDPGA uptake similar to those from control rats. These data show that NSTs can act as UDPGA transporters for glucuronidation reactions, and indicate that UGTs of the 1A family do not function as UDPGA carriers in microsomes. The cell line H4IIE is a useful model for the study of UDPGA transporters for glucuronidation reactions.
The liver is exposed to a wide variety of toxic agents, many of which damage DNA and result in increased levels of the tumour suppressor protein p53. We have previously shown that p53 inhibits the transactivation function of HNF (hepatocyte nuclear factor) 4alpha1, a nuclear receptor known to be critical for early development and liver differentiation. In the present study we demonstrate that p53 also down-regulates expression of the human HNF4alpha gene via the proximal P1 promoter. Overexpression of wild-type p53 down-regulated endogenous levels of both HNF4alpha protein and mRNA in Hep3B cells. This decrease was also observed when HepG2 cells were exposed to UV irradiation or doxorubicin, both of which increased endogenous p53 protein levels. Ectopically expressed p53, but not a mutant p53 defective in DNA binding (R249S), down-regulated HNF4alpha P1 promoter activity. Chromatin immunoprecipitation also showed that endogenous p53 bound the HNF4alpha P1 promoter in vivo after doxorubicin treatment. The mechanism by which p53 down-regulates the P1 promoter appears to be multifaceted. The down-regulation was partially recovered by inhibition of HDAC activity and appears to involve the positive regulator HNF6alpha. p53 bound HNF6alpha in vivo and in vitro and prevented HNF6alpha from binding DNA in vitro. p53 also repressed stimulation of the P1 promoter by HNF6alpha in vivo. However, since the R249S p53 mutant also bound HNF6alpha, binding HNF6alpha is apparently not sufficient for the repression. Implications of the p53-mediated repression of HNF4alpha expression in response to cellular stress are discussed.
Effective stroke therapies require recanalization of occluded cerebral blood vessels; however, early reperfusion can cause BBB (blood-brain barrier) injury, leading to cerebral oedema and/or devastating brain haemorrhage. These complications of early reperfusion, which result from excess production of ROS (reactive oxygen species), significantly limit the benefits of stroke therapies. Here, we summarize some of the findings that lead to the development of a novel animal model that facilitates identification of specific free radical-associated components of the reperfusion injury process and allows therapeutic interventions to be assessed. In this model, KO (knockout) mice containing 50% activity of the mitochondrial antioxidant manganese-SOD (superoxide dismutase) (SOD2-KO) undergo transient focal ischaemia followed by reperfusion. These animals have delayed (&gt;24 h) BBB breakdown associated with activation of matrix metalloproteinase-9, inflammation and a high brain haemorrhage rate. These adverse consequences are absent from wild-type littermates, SOD2 overexpressors and minocycline-treated SOD2-KO animals. In addition, using microvessel isolations following in vivo ischaemia/reperfusion, we were able to show that the tight junction membrane protein, occludin, is an early and specific target in ROS-mediated microvascular injury. This new model is ideal for studying ischaemia/reperfusion-induced vascular injury and secondary brain damage and offers a unique opportunity to evaluate free radical-based neurovascular protective strategies.
Epidemiological studies point to a beneficial influence of the female reproductive hormones on stroke risk in that women have a lower incidence of stroke prior to the menopause compared with men, but this difference weakens with age and stroke risk in women rises after the menopause. However, recent Women's Health Initiative trials in post-menopausal women report an increased stroke risk on hormone replacement therapy. An influence of gender is also apparent on stroke outcome in animal models: female rats exposed to transient MCA (middle cerebral artery) occlusion sustain less brain damage than age-matched males, with loss of protection following ovariectomy. The major hormone thought to be responsible for beneficial influences on stroke incidence and outcome is oestrogen, and a large preclinical literature now exists where exogenously administered oestrogen has been studied in male and ovariectomized female rats using a range of stroke models and outcome measures. Most of these studies administer oestrogen prior to the stroke, use a model of transient ischaemia followed by reperfusion and report a significant oestrogen-induced neuroprotection. However, in some studies where the MCA is permanently occluded, oestrogen pre-treatment in ovariectomized female rats has been shown to significantly exacerbate ischaemic damage. Therefore preclinical results demonstrate harmful as well as beneficial influences of oestrogen on the ischaemic brain, highlighting the need for further study to elucidate the mechanisms responsible for both detrimental and beneficial influences. Ultimately, this could lead to the development of new classes of oestrogenic compounds with improved risk/benefit profiles, designed to selectively activate pathways inducing only the beneficial effects of oestrogen in vivo.
Findings from gene expression profiling studies are leading to new diagnostic and therapeutic strategies that can be applied in medical practice, especially in the field of oncology. Promising results of gene expression profiling of the peripheral blood in patients with ischaemic stroke have been obtained in recent pilot studies, demonstrating a partially reproducible gene signature of acute cerebral ischaemia. However, questions remain. Given that blood is at least in part a surrogate tissue for ischaemic stroke, the specificity of these signatures needs to be evaluated. Furthermore, it needs to be determined whether standardization of this methodology is required and whether clinical signatures can be identified that are improvements over the tools currently used in clinical practice. Clinically useful signatures would include those of haemorrhagic as well as ischaemic stroke, reclassification of stroke type and prognosis, and vascular disease risk. If these conditions are met, then it should be possible to develop cost-effective and rapid assays.
The acronym CK2 (derived from the misnomer 'casein kinase' 2) denotes one of the most pleiotropic members of the eukaryotic protein kinase superfamily, characterized by an acidic consensus sequence in which a carboxylic acid (or pre-phosphorylated) side chain at position n+3 relative to the target serine/threonine residue plays a crucial role. The latest repertoire of CK2 substrates includes approx. 300 proteins, but the analysis of available phosphopeptide databases from different sources suggests that CK2 alone may be responsible for the generation of a much larger proportion (10-20%) of the eukaryotic phosphoproteome. Although for the time being CK2 is not included among protein kinases whose inhibitors are in clinical practice or in advanced clinical trials, evidence is accumulating that elevated CK2 constitutive activity co-operates to induce a number of pathological conditions, including cancer, infectious diseases, neurodegeneration and cardiovascular pathologies. The development and usage of cell-permeant, selective inhibitors discloses a scenario whereby CK2 plays a global anti-apoptotic role, which under special circumstances may lead to untimely and pathogenic cell survival.
Significant advancements in our understanding of cell-survival signalling in AD (Alzheimer's disease) stem from recent investigations into the metabolism, trafficking and fate of the essential omega-3 fatty acid DHA (docosahexaenoic acid) (C(22:6), n=3). Brain synaptic terminals and neuronal plasma membranes are highly enriched in DHA, and deficiencies in this polyunsaturated fatty acid are characteristic of AD-affected brain. Oxidative stress, targeting phospholipids containing DHA, and age-related DHA depletion are associated with the progressive erosion of normal cognitive function in AD. Current studies support the idea that DHA itself and novel DHA-derived neural synapse- and membrane-derived lipid messengers have considerable potential to modulate cell survival signalling in stressed cultured neural cell models in vitro and in mammalian models of learning, memory and AD in vivo. Key players in this intrinsic rescue system include the alpha-secretase-processed neurotrophin sAPPalpha [soluble APPalpha (amyloid precursor protein alpha)] peptide, the DHA-derived 10,17S-docosatriene NPD1 (neuroprotectin D1), a tandem brain cytosolic phospholipase A(2) and 15-lipoxygenase enzymatic system that biosynthesizes NPD1, and a small family of anti-apoptotic neuroprotective genes that encode Bcl-2, Bcl-X(L) and Bfl-1 (A1). This paper reviews current ideas regarding DHA and the oxygenated DHA derivative NPD1, intrinsically triggered biolipid neuroprotectants that along with their associated rescue pathways, contribute to life-or-death decisions of brain cells during homoeostasis, aging and neurodegenerative disease.
Hormones are characteristically secreted in distinct pulses. Corticosterone (in rodents) and cortisol (in human) show profound circadian and ultradian rhythmicity which results in rapid changes in ligand concentration in the circulating blood. The pattern of ultradian glucocorticoid levels shows genetic modulation, can change according to the physiological and pathological status of the animal and can be programmed by neonatal events. Since the tissue response to changes in circulating glucocorticoid levels can be very rapid, changes in ultradian rhythm could allow tissue-specific regulation of glucocorticoid signalling without major changes in mean plasma hormone levels.
The generation of informational sequences and their reorganization or reshaping is one of the most intriguing subjects for both neuroscience and the theory of autonomous intelligent systems. In spite of the diversity of sequential activities of sensory, motor, and cognitive neural systems, they have many similarities from the dynamical point of view. In this review we discus the ideas, models, and mathematical image of sequence generation and reshaping on different levels of the neural hierarchy, i.e., the role of a sensory network dynamics in the generation of a motor program (hunting swimming of marine mollusk Clione), olfactory dynamical coding, and sequential learning and decision making. Analysis of these phenomena is based on the winnerless competition principle. The considered models can be a basis for the design of biologically inspired autonomous intelligent systems.





The Golgi silver impregnation technique is a simple histological procedure that reveals complete three-dimensional neuron morphology. This method is based in the formation of opaque intracellular deposits of silver chromate obtained by the reaction between potassium dichromate and silver nitrate (black reaction). Camillo Golgi, its discoverer, and Santiago Ramn y Cajal its main exponent, shared the Nobel Prize of Medicine and Physiology in 1906 for their contribution to the knowledge of the nervous system structure, Their successes were largely due to the application of the silver impregnation method. However, Golgi and Cajal had different views on the structure of nervous tissue. According to the Reticular Theory, defended by Golgi, the nervous system was formed by a network of cells connected via axons within a syncytium. In contrast, Cajal defended the Neuron Doctrine which maintained that the neurons were independent cells. In addition, Golgi had used a variant of his &quot;black reaction&quot; to discover the cellular organelle that became known as the Golgi apparatus. Electron microscopy studies confirmed the postulates of the Neuron Doctrine as well as the existence of the Golgi complex and contributed to a resurgence of use of the Golgi stain. Although modern methods of intracellular staining reveal excellent images of neuron morphology, the Golgi technique is an easier and less expensive method for the study of normal and pathological morphology of neurons.
A several series of low molecular weight 5-HT(2A) leads were identified from an analysis of HTS data, the exploration of SAR and optimization of one series using parallel synthesis are described, affording compound 22 (5-HT(2A) IC(50) 1.1 nM).


Our previous results demonstrated that B cells from a patient (pt1) with non-X-linked hyper-IgM syndrome (HIGM) possess an atypical CD23(lo) phenotype that is unaffected by CD40-mediated activation. To investigate the molecular mechanism underlying defective CD23 expression in pt1 B cells, we used lymphoblastoid cell lines that express LMP1 under the control of a tetracycline-inducible promoter (LCL(tet)). Our analysis revealed that the CD23(lo) phenotype in the pt1-LCL(tet) cells is a direct consequence of diminished CD23 transcription. We demonstrate a marked decrease in c-Rel-containing complexes that bind to the proximal CD23a/b promoters in pt1-LCL(tet) extracts, resulting from an overall lower expression of c-Rel in pt1-LCL(tet) cells. Analysis of c-Rel mRNA revealed relatively equal amounts in pt1-LCL(tet) and control LCL(tet) cells, indicating that diminished c-Rel protein expression is unrelated to decreased transcription. Finally, a critical role for c-Rel in CD23 regulation was demonstrated by effectively altering c-Rel expression that resulted in the direct modulation of CD23 surface expression. Collectively, these findings demonstrate that low levels of c-Rel are the underlying cause of aberrant CD23 expression in pt1 B cells and are likely to play a critical role in the pathophysiology of this form of HIGM.


Mutations in the human melanocortin (MC)4 receptor have been associated with obesity, which underscores the relevance of this receptor as a drug target to treat obesity. Infusion of MC4R agonists decreases food intake, whereas inhibition of MC receptor activity by infusion of an MC receptor antagonist or with the inverse agonist AgRP results in increased food intake. This review addresses the role of the MC system in different aspects of feeding behaviour. MC4R activity affects meal size and meal choice, but not meal frequency, and the type of diet affects the efficacy of MC4R agonists to reduce food intake. The central sites involved in the different aspects of feeding behaviour that are affected by MC4R signalling are being unravelled. The paraventricular nucleus plays an important role in food intake per se, whereas MC signalling in the lateral hypothalamus is associated with the response to a high fat diet. MC4R signalling in the brainstem has been shown to affect meal size. Further genetic, behavioural and brain-region specific studies need to clarify how the MC4R agonists affect feeding behaviour in order to determine which obese individuals would benefit most from treatment with these drugs. Application of MCR agonists in humans has already revealed side effects, such as penile erections, which may complicate introduction of these drugs in the treatment of obesity.

Saltatory conduction in the nervous system is enabled through the intimate association between the leading edge of the myelin sheath and the axonal membrane to demarcate the node of Ranvier. The 186 kDa neuron specific isoform of the adhesion molecule neurofascin (Nfasc186) is required for the clustering of voltage gated Na+ channels at the node, whilst the 155 kDa glial specific isoform (Nfasc155) is required for the assembly of correct paranodal junctions. In order to understand the relationship between these vital structures and how they are affected in multiple sclerosis we have examined the expression of Nfasc155 and Nfasc186 in areas of inflammation, demyelination and remyelination from post-mortem brains. Fourteen cases of neuropathologically confirmed multiple sclerosis (8 female and 6 male; post-mortem delay 7-24 h; age 37-77 years; and disease duration 15-40 years), comprising 20 tissue blocks with 32 demyelinating or remyelinating lesions, were used in this study. A significant early alteration in Nfasc155+ paranodal structures occurs within and adjacent to actively demyelinating white matter lesions that are associated with damaged axons. Shaker-type Kv1.2 channels, normally located distally to the paranode, overlapped with the disrupted Nfasc155+ structures. In the absence of Nfasc155, Kv1.2 channels abutted normally clustered Nfasc186+ nodes, indicating that complete disruption of the paranodal structure and movement of Kv1.2 channels precede alterations at the node itself. Within areas of partial remyelination, a number of atypical triple-Nfasc155+ structures were noted that may represent transient oligodendrocyte-axonal contacts during the process of myelin repair or aberrant interactions. Within shadow plaques discretely clustered Na+v, Nfasc186+ and Nfasc155+ domains indicated the restoration of normal nodal architecture. The alterations in oligodendrocyte Nfasc155 expression that accompany inflammation and demyelination suggest an ongoing disruption to the axonal-oligodendrocyte complex within newly forming as well as established lesions in multiple sclerosis, resulting in destruction of the Nfasc186+/Na+v nodal complex vital to successful fast neurotransmission in the CNS.
Developmental dyslexia (DD) and specific language impairment (SLI) are disorders of language that differ in diagnostic criteria and outcome. DD is defined by isolated reading deficits. SLI is defined by poor receptive and expressive oral language skills. Reading deficits, although prevalent, are not necessary for the diagnosis of SLI. An enduring question is whether these two disorders are qualitatively different or simply differ quantitatively along a dimension of severity. Here we address this problem by examining neuroanatomical correlates of reading and language in children with learning disabilities. We asked whether a quantitative anatomical risk index derived from previous work could predict behavioural profiles in a heterogeneous sample of 14 boys and 8 girls (11-16 years of age) with reading and language impairments. The results confirmed our predictions that (i) children with relatively smaller and symmetrical brain structures (negative risk indices) would have the severe comprehension impairments typical of SLI; (ii) children with larger, asymmetrical brain structures (positive risk indices) would have poor word reading in the presence of relatively preserved comprehension, a profile typical of DD; and (iii) the best performance would be seen in children with anatomical risk indices near zero (normal anatomy). Also, in confirmation of previous work, rapid automatic naming was not predicted by the anatomical risk index, but by anatomical measures derived from the frontal lobes. These results highlight the key significance of comprehension deficits in distinguishing DD from SLI. Reading impaired children with and without comprehension deficits appear to occupy neuroanatomical domains on the opposite sides of normal.
Axonal degeneration is a major contributor to non-remitting deficits in multiple sclerosis, and there is thus considerable current interest in the development of strategies that might prevent axonal loss in neuroinflammatory disease. Dysregulation of sodium ion homeostasis has been implicated in mechanisms leading to axonal degeneration, and several studies have shown that blockade of sodium channels can ameliorate axon damage following anoxic, traumatic and nitric oxide-induced CNS injury. Two sodium channel blockers, phenytoin and flecainide, have been reported to protect axons in experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE) for 30 days, but long-term protective effects have not been studied. We demonstrate here that oral administration of phenytoin provides long-term (up to 180 days) protection for spinal cord corticospinal tract (CST) and dorsal column (DC) axons in both monophasic (C57/BL6 mice) and chronic-relapsing (Biozzi mice) murine EAE. Untreated C57/BL6 mice exhibit a 40-50% loss of CST and DF axons at 90 and 180 days post-EAE induction via myelin-oligodendrocyte glycoprotein (MOG) injection. In contrast, only 4% of DF axons are lost at 90 days, and only 8% are lost at 180 days in phenytoin-treated C57/BL6 mice with EAE; only 21-29% of CST axons are lost at 90 and 180 days in phenytoin-treated C57/BL6 mice with EAE. Attenuation of dorsal column compound action potentials was ameliorated and clinical status was also significantly enhanced with phenytoin treatment at 90 and 180 days in this model. In addition, inflammatory cell infiltration into the dorsal columns was reduced in phenytoin-treated mice with EAE compared with untreated mice with EAE. Similar results were obtained in Biozzi mice with chronic-relapsing EAE followed for 120 days post-injection. These observations demonstrate that phenytoin provides long-term protection of CNS axons and improves clinical status in both monophasic and chronic-relapsing models of neuroinflammation.

We describe here a molecular genetic approach for imaging synaptic inhibition. The thy-1 promoter was used to express high levels of Clomeleon, a ratiometric fluorescent indicator for chloride ions, in discrete populations of neurons in the brains of transgenic mice. Clomeleon was functional after chronic expression and provided non-invasive readouts of intracellular chloride concentration ([Cl(-)](i)) in brain slices, allowing us to quantify age-dependent declines in resting [Cl(-)](i) during neuronal development. Activation of hippocampal interneurons caused [Cl(-)](i) to rise transiently in individual postsynaptic pyramidal neurons. [Cl(-)](i) increased in direct proportion to the amount of inhibitory transmission, with peak changes as large as 4 mM. Integrating responses over populations of pyramidal neurons allowed sensitive detection of synaptic inhibition. Thus, Clomeleon imaging permits non-invasive, spatiotemporally resolved recordings of [Cl(-)](i) in a large variety of neurons, opening up new opportunities for imaging synaptic inhibition and other forms of chloride signaling.
Theories of category-specific effects on visual object identification predict easier identification of non-living than living objects. The Sensory-Functional theory credits greater representational weighting of the visual properties of living objects independent of greater weighting of the functional properties of non-living objects. It predicts a lost or reversed non-living advantage for non-manipulable objects. Normal participants matched pictures of non-manipulable objects with words describing three levels of identity while visual object similarity, and concept familiarity were controlled. Consistent with the Sensory-Functional theory, living objects were matched faster than non-living objects. Concept familiarity facilitated subordinate matches. Visual similarity hampered subordinate matches and facilitated basic matches.

Mutated huntingtin (htt) is ubiquitously expressed in tissues of Huntington's disease (HD) patients. In the brain, the mutated protein leads to neuronal cell dysfunction and death, associated with formation of htt-positive inclusions. Given increasing evidence of abnormalities in HD skeletal muscle, we extensively analyzed primary muscle cell cultures from seven HD subjects (including two unaffected mutation carriers). Myoblasts from presymptomatic and symptomatic HD subjects showed cellular abnormalities in vitro, namely mitochondrial depolarization, cytochrome c release, increased caspase-3, -8, and -9 activities, and defective cell differentiation. Another notable feature was the formation of htt inclusions in differentiated myotubes. This study helps to advance current knowledge about the downstream effects of the htt mutation in human tissues. Further applications may include drug screening using this human cellular model.
Signals from the hypothalamus govern food intake and energy balance. A new study describes nesfatin-1, a hypothalamic and brainstem peptide whose expression decreases during fasting. Although central treatment with nesfatin-1 inhibited food intake and nesfatin-1 blockade increased food intake, the role and mechanism of nesfatin in energy balance remains unclear.
Hematopoietic restrictive Galpha(16) has long been known to stimulate phospholipase Cbeta (PLCbeta) and induce mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) phosphorylation. Recently, we have demonstrated that Galpha(16) is capable of inducing the phosphorylation and transcriptional activation of transcription factors, such as signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 (STAT3) and nuclear factor kappaB (NFkappaB). However, the downstream signaling regulation by Galpha(16) has not yet been documented. In the present study, we have determined the signaling mechanism by which constitutively active Galpha(16) mediates c-Fos transcriptional activation in human embryonic kidney (HEK) 293 cells. Overexpression of constitutively active Galpha(16), Galpha(16)QL, resulted in the stimulation of c-Fos transcriptional activation in HEK 293 cells. The participation of PLCbeta, c-Src/Janus kinase 2 (JAK2) and extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK) signaling pathways in Galpha(16)QL-induced c-Fos transcriptional activation was demonstrated by the use of their specific inhibitors. However, c-Jun N terminal kinase (JNK), p38 MAPK and phosphatidylinositol-3 kinase (PI3K) were not required. Interestingly, the dominant negative mutant of STAT1, but not STAT3, suppressed c-Fos transcriptional activation induced by Galpha(16)QL, implying that STAT1 was involved in this signaling mechanism. To further examine the role of STAT1 in the signaling pathway of Galpha(16), we demonstrated that Galpha(16)QL was able to induce STAT1 activation. Also, stimulation of adenosine A1 receptor-coupled Galpha(16) was shown to induce ERK and STAT1 phosphorylations in a concentration-dependent manner. Using selective inhibitors, PLCbeta, c-Src/JAK and ERK, but not JNK, p38 MAPK and PI3K, were shown to be involved in Galpha(16)QL-induced STAT1 activation. Collectively, our results demonstrate for the first time that stimulation of Galpha(16) can lead to STAT1-dependent c-Fos transcriptional activation via PLCbeta, c-Src/JAK and ERK pathways.
The distribution and chemical content of cutaneous nerves in 3- to 13-day-old emu chicks (Dromaius novaehollandiae) were examined by using double-labelling immunohistochemistry. Seven different subpopulations of cutaneous nerves were identified based on their neurochemistry. No intraepidermal nerve fibres were found. However, axons were located within the dermis and were often associated with blood vessels, pennamotor muscles and feather follicles or innervated Herbst corpuscles. Both similarities and differences exist between subpopulations of cutaneous nerves in the emu and volant birds. As in volant birds, a subpopulation of cutaneous axons innervates the superficial skin layers and contains immunoreactivity to both substance P and calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP). This suggests that the neuropeptide content of these presumptive free nerve endings is conserved throughout the evolution of birds. In contrast, Herbst corpuscles in the emu are innervated by axons that contain immunoreactivity for CGRP or neuropeptide Y (NPY) but that lack the calbindin D-28k immunoreactivity found in fibres innervating Herbst corpuscles of volant birds. Herbst corpuscles therefore may have a different chemical content in a flightless species from that in volant birds.
The crustacean dactyl opener neuromuscular system has been studied extensively as a model system that exhibits several forms of synaptic plasticity. We report the ultrastructural features of the synapses on dactyl opener of the lobster (Homarus americanus) as determined by examination of serial thin sections. Several innervation sites supplied by an inhibitory motoneuron have been observed without nearby excitatory innervation, indicating that excitatory and inhibitory inputs to the muscle are not always closely matched. The ultrastructural features of the lobster synapses are generally similar to those described previously for the homologous crayfish muscle, with one major distinction: few dense bars are seen at the presynaptic membranes of these lobster synapses. The majority of the lobster neuromuscular synapses lack dense bars altogether, and the mean number of dense bars per synapse is relatively low. In view of the finding that the physiology of the lobster dactyl opener synapses is similar to that reported for crayfish, these ultrastructural observations suggest that the structural complexity of the synapses may not be a critical factor determining synaptic plasticity.
Event-related functional magnetic resonance imaging was used to study the effects of healthy aging on hippocampal and rhinal memory functions. Memory for past events can be based on retrieval accompanied by specific contextual details (recollection) or on the feeling that an event is old or new without the recovery of contextual details (familiarity). There is evidence that recollection is more dependent on hippocampus, whereas familiarity is more dependent on the rhinal cortex, and that healthy aging has greater effects on recollection than on familiarity. However, little evidence is available about the neural correlates of these effects. Here, we isolated activity associated with recollection and familiarity by distinguishing between linear and quasi-exponential &quot;perceived oldness&quot; functions derived from recognition confidence levels. The main finding was a double dissociation within the medial temporal lobes between recollection-related activity in hippocampus, which was reduced by aging, and familiarity-related activity in rhinal cortex, which was increased by aging. In addition, age dissociations were found within parietal and posterior midline regions. Finally, aging reduced functional connectivity within a hippocampal-retrosplenial/parietotemporal network but increased connectivity within a rhinal-frontal network. These findings indicate that older adults compensate for hippocampal deficits by relying more on rhinal cortex, possibly through a top-down frontal modulation. This finding has important clinical implications because early Alzheimer's disease impairs both hippocampus and rhinal cortex.
We analyzed the behavioral data from 104 neuroimaging studies using positron emission tomography or functional magnetic resonance imaging that reported activation peaks in rostral prefrontal cortex (PFC), approximating Brodmann's area 10. The distribution of absolute x coordinates of activation peaks (i.e., x coordinate regardless of hemisphere) differed significantly from a unimodal normal distribution, reflecting distinct clusters of activation in lateral and medial subregions. These 2 clusters were associated with different patterns of behavioral data. Lateral activations were associated with contrasts between experimental and control conditions where response times (RTs) were slower in the experimental condition. Medial activations were associated with contrasts where RTs were, if anything, faster in experimental than control conditions. These findings place important constraints on theories of rostral PFC functions.
Adverse sequelae of prenatal alcohol exposure include executive function and social skills impairments, although these two domains have not been empirically linked in alcohol-exposed individuals. This study investigated this relationship using the BRIEF and the SSRS in 98 children aged 6 to 11 years. Executive functions explained a significant percentage of variance in parent and teacher rated social skills. No differences were found among children with diagnoses of FAS, partial FAS, or alcohol-related neurodevelopmental disorder. It may be helpful to consider executive functioning in designing social skills interventions for alcohol-exposed children whether or not they have full FAS.

Elasticity is an important physical property of human tissues. There is a tremendous difference in elasticity between normal and pathological tissues. Noninvasive evaluation of the elasticity of human tissues would be valuable for clinical practice. Magnetic resonance elastography (MRE) is a recently developed noninvasive imaging technique that can directly visualize and quantitatively measure tissue elasticity. This article reviewed the MRE technique and its current status.

1. Mental disorders associated with chronic stressors are established risk factors for cardiac morbidity and mortality, but there is no satisfactory explanation of the mechanistic link between mental and cardiac disorders. 2. The present article presents the hypothesis suggesting that abnormal functioning of serotonin 5-HT(1A) receptors in the lower brain stem may represent this missing link. Currently available data suggest that there may be a global downregulation of 5-HT(1A) receptors in depressive and panic patients. 3. Recent animal results indicate that 5-HT(1A) receptors, located in the medullary raphe, possibly on the raphe-spinal presympathetic cardiomotor neurons, reduce stress-elicited activation of these neurons. 4. Decreased density/function of 5-H(1A) receptors in the raphe area (possibly occurring during chronic stress/depression) may lead to increased sympathetic outflow to the heart and, consequently, to the increase in noradrenalin release from the cardiac sympathetic nerve terminals.
This review highlights areas of clinical research in gastroenterology and hepatology that were published predominantly in the journal Clinical Gastroenterology and Hepatology during the last year and were summarized during the American Gastroenterological Association Presidential Plenary Session in May 2006. The topics included eosinophilic esophagitis in children, detecting high-grade dysplasia or carcinoma in Barrett's esophagus, advances in management of celiac disease with elemental diet or gluten predigestion, the safety of NSAIDs in inflammatory bowel disease, the role of steroids in development of abscesses, prognosis of colorectal cancer associated with inflammatory bowel disease, screening for familial colorectal cancer in apparently sporadic disease, a new syndrome of familial colorectal cancer, new drugs in the treatment of chronic constipation and obesity, hepatoma risk factors and underserved racial/ethnic groups, and the application of new imaging and biology in diagnosis of gastroenterological disorders.
Mulibrey nanism is a rare autosomal recessive growth disorder with prenatal onset, including occasional progressive cardiopathy, characteristic facial features, failure of sexual maturation, insulin resistance with type 2 diabetes, and an increased risk for Wilms' tumor. Mulibrey nanism is prevalent in the Finnish population and appears extremely rare elsewhere. However, cases outside of Finland may be underdiagnosed or misdiagnosed as having the 3-M or Silver-Russell syndrome, two important differential diagnostic disorders. Here, we report the first Australian patient with mulibrey nanism, in whom the occurrence of Wilms' tumor suggested the correct diagnosis. This was confirmed by the identification of two novel mutations in tripartite motif protein 37 (TRIM37) encoding a RING finger ubiquitin E3 ligase. Both mutations, the p.Cys109Ser B-box missense mutation and the p.Glu271_Ser287del in-frame deletion in the tumor necrosis factor receptor associated factor (TRAF) domain alter the subcellular localization of TRIM37. As both the B-box and the TRAF domains are predicted to be important for mediating the protein-protein interactions, these mutations may help the understanding of the cellular interactions of TRIM37. Our findings imply the importance of early molecular diagnostics in cases of suspected mulibrey nanism and of identifying novel mutations with potential relevance for unraveling the underlying molecular pathology. Ultrasound surveillance for Wilms' tumor is recommended for children with mulibrey nanism.
There is little published information on the autopsy findings in hereditary sensory neuropathy type I (HSN I), and none in genetically confirmed cases. We report the neuropathological findings in a 93-year-old woman with a disease of unusually late onset, who was part of a large HSN I kindred and in whom genetic analysis confirmed an SPTLC1 T399G mutation.


Neocortical dynamics and signals reflect spatiotemporal cortical synchronization as well as functional condition and modulation by subcortical projecting structures that determine the brain state. However, neurotransmitters interact and neuronal function and signals also reflect non-neuronal factors that should (but not necessarily are, or can) be taken into proper consideration in neuroscience. Examples in this regard are the CNS modulation by spontaneous or induced changes in metabolism (e.g. glucose, ammonia), blood flow, pO(2), pCO(2), hormones (thyroxine; sexual hormones, ATCH) and neurohormonal interaction, maturation, aging, temperature, light-dark regulation of serotonine, histamine and dopamine/melatonin/vitamin B12 secretion and interaction, etc. Hormones also regulate the (functional) maturation and differentiation between sexes both during development and in adult life. These factors interact with each other and individually or collectively can account for unexplained or underestimated individual variability; on occasions, may become critical variables in animal or human research. In specific instances, variability is the information of interest. However, physiological variability due to neuronal or non-neuronal factors can interact with the experimental setups or affect electrophysiological signals to extents that can result in biased findings in otherwise controlled studies. An &quot;inverse problem&quot; difficult to approach may ensue in both animal and human research; in several instances, the specificity of brain signals for the investigated function may require experimental validation.
Clinical neuropsychology's dependence upon a core scientific background in clinical neuropsychology, and clinical psychology, neurology, and neuroanatomy, as well as biopsychology, cognitive neuroscience, and cognitive science is the basis of its designation as an APA-approved clinical specialty. This dependence highlights the importance of these scientific underpinnings and the scientist-practitioner model of training, detailed in the Houston Guidelines. This presentation is meant to demonstrate that cognitive neuroscience research should influence our conception of brain behavior relationships, which, in turn, should influence our clinical work. In addition, I want to illustrate how the utilization of converging methods, which is an increasingly popular approach to research, can ensure more valid conclusions about the neuroanatomical substrates for complex skills. Limb apraxia will be used as an example of a deficit that has functional implications and whose cognitive mechanisms and neuroanatomical correlates are better understood as a result of research that combines neuroanatomical imaging of brain damaged patients, functional imaging, and cognitive paradigms. This work demonstrates that left frontoparietal circuits control limb praxis and motor sequencing, suggesting that these complex motor skills should be examined in patients with such damage.


The electroresponsiveness fingerprint of a neuron reflects the types and distributions of the ionic channels that are embedded in the neuronal membrane as well as its morphology. Theoretical analysis shows that subtle changes in the density of channels can contribute substantially to the electroresponsive fingerprints of neurons. We have confirmed these predictions, using the dynamic clamp approach to emulate changes in channels' densities in neurons from the inferior olive. We demonstrate how the density of T-type channels determines the behavioral destiny of neurons. We argue that regulation of channel densities could be an efficient mechanism for controlling the electrical activity of single cells, as well as the output of neuronal networks.
The presence of T-channels in thalamic cells allows for the generation of rhythmic bursts of spikes and the existence of two firing modes in thalamic cells: tonic and bursting. This intrinsic electrophysiological property has fundamental consequences for the functional properties of the thalamus across waking and sleep stages and is centrally implicated in a growing number of pathological states. Rhythmic bursting brings about highly synchronized activity throughout corticothalamic circuits which is incompatible with the relay of information through the thalamus. Understanding the conditions that determine the change in firing mode of thalamic cells as well as the role of bursting in the generation of synchronized oscillations is critical to understand the function of the thalamus. The functional properties of T-channels and the resulting low threshold spike are discussed here with emphasis on the differences in the bursting properties of reticular thalamic and thalamocortical neurons. The role of thalamic bursting in the generation of sleep oscillations and their specific sequence during slow wave sleep will also be discussed.



Proton magnetic resonance spectroscopy was used to compare metabolite levels from a posterior cingulate voxel in a group of patients with 2 syndromic subtypes of frontotemporal dementia (n=10) and an age and education-matched group with Alzheimer disease (n=10). Overall, frontotemporal dementia was indistinguishable from Alzheimer disease, though differences in N-acetylaspartate emerged between patients with the SD and progressive nonfluent aphasia subtypes, attributable to 2 atypical results among the latter. Such values may index cases with atrophy in posterior cortical regions presenting with progressive nonfluent aphasia.
A large number of brain-damaged patients with heterogeneous category-specific deficits have been reported in literature. This has given rise to different theories concerning the processing of semantic knowledge. In this paper we report the case of K.C. who, after a bout of herpes simplex encephalitis, displayed a category-specific impairment restricted to the knowledge of animals, irrespective of input modality. K.C.'s magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) showed multiple bilateral antero-mesial and inferior temporal lesions. Although she was impaired for both the perceptual (visual and auditory) and functional/associative attributes of animals, she performed normally in an object-reality decision task involving pictures of animals and nonanimals. The dissociation between K.C.'s intact structural description system and her impaired semantic knowledge is interpreted according to hierarchical interactive theory (HIT), which assumes that conceptual knowledge is hierarchically organized in separate but interactive multiple knowledge substores. K.C.'s results indicate that her access to a presemantic structural description system was intact so that her impairment on animal semantic knowledge arose later at a conceptual stage of the object recognition system. Furthermore, K.C.'s deficits indicate selective disruption of a special class of animate concepts within the broad category of living things, which seems best explained by the &quot;domain-specific knowledge theory&quot; proposed by Caramazza and Shelton.
In this article, the author presents a new methodology for the study of two fundamental components of consciousness, that is thought and language. The fundamental presupposition that forms the basis of this methodology is that thought is not simply a passive &quot;reflection&quot; of an external &quot;reality&quot;, but also (and especially) something active, i.e. that the fundamental components of thought are sequences of operations, amongst which the ones of attention play a key role. These sequences of elementary mental operations are called mental categories, and are the meanings of all the words that do not seem to indicate something physical (first of all, all the &quot;grammatical&quot; words, that is conjunctions, prepositions, articles, pronouns, fundamental verbs like &quot;to be&quot;, &quot;to have&quot; etc., the main adverbs, and, in the large number of languages that have a more or less rich morphology, all morphemes (the ones which indicate cases, in languages that have cases, the number and the gender of nouns and adjectives, moods and tenses of the verb etc.). The author proposes a list of these elementary mental operations and he shows how it is possible, basing ourselves on them, to identify the meanings of these words, which are indispensable for any linguistic expression. The author also mentions a possible short-term practical application of these theories, i.e. a device in order to improve the quality of machine translation. He also formulates the hypothesis that these theories could allow us to look in a new way at the problem of the (partial) artificial reproduction of the human activity of thought and language.
Primary neuronal cultures on substrates patterned with extracellular matrix proteins such as laminin have yielded much information regarding the physiological characteristics of neuronal cells in vitro. Surface charge also influences neuronal adherence, and a positive charge can have stimulatory effects. The attraction between laminin patterns and polycation films are of interest in the study of neuronal adhesion. We cultured primary hippocampal neurons on poly(ethylenimine) (PEI) films with laminin grids and evaluated their viability and morphology by means of fluorescent microscopy after 5-7 days. The results showed that the neurons did not form networks on the laminin grids. It is inferred that the PEI films were more favourable for neuronal adhesion than the laminin grid.

As a group, strains of laboratory mice carrying Alzheimer's disease (AD)-related transgenes are currently the most widely studied animal models of AD. Many AD mouse models carrying the same or similar transgene constructs demonstrate strikingly different phenotypic responses to transgene expression, mimicking the apparent genetic complexity of AD pathogenesis seen in the human population. Genetic differences between the numerous mouse model strains used for AD research can significantly affect correct interpretation and cross-comparison of experimental findings, making genetic background an important consideration for all work in mouse models of AD. Furthermore, because of the potential for discovering novel genetic modifiers of AD pathogenesis, the effects of genetic background on AD phenotypes in the mouse can prove a worthwhile subject of study in their own right. This review discusses the implications of genetic modifiers for mouse and human AD research, and summarizes recent findings identifying significant roles for genetic background in modifying important phenotypes in AD mouse models, including premature death, amyloid deposition, tau hyperphosphorylation, and responsiveness to environmental or treatment interventions.
Advances in the understanding of Alzheimer's disease (AD) pathogenesis provide strong support for a modified version of the amyloid cascade hypothesis, which is now often referred to as the amyloid beta protein (Abeta) cascade hypothesis. The basic tenant of this modified hypothesis is that Abeta aggregates trigger a complex pathological cascade leading to neurodegeneration. Thus, as opposed to the original amyloid hypothesis, whose basic tenant was that amyloid deposits cause AD, the Abeta hypothesis is more inclusive in that it takes into account the possibility that several different Abeta assemblies might contribute to AD pathogenesis and not merely the detectable amyloid deposits within the brain. Significantly, the Abeta hypothesis has provided the rationale for a plethora of therapeutic interventions that target Abeta production, aggregation or clearance. Indeed, AD research is entering an exciting phase in which strategies derived from basic research will be tested in humans. Despite this progress, many aspects of AD pathogenesis, particularly those downstream of Abeta accumulation are not well understood. Herein, we explore several observations that serve to illustrate the more enigmatic aspects of the Abeta hypothesis, and discuss why further basic research may be critical in order to develop therapies designed to halt neurodegeneration and reverse cognitive decline in patients already suffering from AD dementia.
Oxidative stress is associated with the onset and pathogenesis of several prominent central nervous system disorders. Consequently, there is a pressing need for experimental methods for studying neuronal responses to oxidative stress. A number of techniques for modeling oxidative stress have been developed, including the use of inhibitors of the mitochondrial respiratory chain, depletion of endogenous antioxidants, application of products of lipid peroxidation, use of heavy metals, and models of ischemic brain injury. These experimental approaches can be applied from cell culture to in vivo animal models. Their use has provided insight into the molecular underpinnings of oxidative stress responses in the nervous system, including cell recovery and cell death. Reactive oxygen species contribute to conformational change-induced activation of signaling pathways, inactivation of enzymes through modification of catalytic cysteine residues, and subcellular redistribution of signaling molecules. In this review, we will discuss several methods for inducing oxidative stress in the nervous system and explore newly emerging concepts in oxidative stress signaling.
Chemokines and their receptors are essential elements in leukocyte trafficking during health and disease. There are three (or more) distinct routes of leukocyte entry into the central nervous system (CNS), and molecular mechanisms of physiological and neuroinflammatory leukocyte recruitment to the CNS are slowly coming into view. Migration of immune cells into cerebrospinal fluid supports CNS immunosurveillance. Current knowledge of the trafficking determinants that direct the leukocyte recruitment in CNS pathology relies in large part on studies of multiple sclerosis and its models including experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis. Overlapping molecular signals are responsible for the migration of specific cells into the CNS during pathological inflammation and host defense, raising challenges and opportunities for therapeutic manipulation.
Detection of gene variants affecting the risk for multiple sclerosis provides insights into mechanisms central for autoaggressive neuroinflammation. Major histocompatibility complex (MHC) class II genes, and probably also MHC class I genes, regulate both human multiple sclerosis and rodent experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis. However, the functional understanding of the MHC regulation requires further experimentation. Genome scans in human multiple sclerosis have failed to demonstrate significant non-MHC loci with genome-wide significance, but approximately 50 such loci have been described in different rodent experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis models. Positional cloning of individual rodent genes is difficult, but genes or small genome regions now emerge. Association studies in large human cohorts are needed to confirm the human relevance of rodent genes and such cohorts will also be used for single nucleotide polymorphism-based whole-genome screening. It is realistic to assume that several non-MHC genes regulating autoimmune neuroinflammation, including target tissue responses, will be pinpointed in the next ten years. At the moment there are a few hot candidates, including MHC2TA, PRKCA and IL7R.


The remarkable manipulative skill of the human hand is not the result of rapid sensorimotor processes, nor of fast or powerful effector mechanisms. Rather, the secret lies in the way manual tasks are organized and controlled by the nervous system. At the heart of this organization is prediction. Successful manipulation requires the ability both to predict the motor commands required to grasp, lift, and move objects and to predict the sensory events that arise as a consequence of these commands.
Memory lets the past inform the present so that we can attain future goals. In many species, these abilities require the hippocampus. Recent experiments, in which memory demand was varied while overt behavior and the environment were kept constant, have revealed firing patterns of hippocampal neurons that corresponded with memory demands and predicted performance. Although the active population appeared to be 'place cells' that signalled location, it actually included cells the activity patterns of which distinguished the recent or pending history of behavior during identical actions that occurred in the same place. Different populations of hippocampal cells fired as a rat walked along the same spatial path on the way to different goals, and coded past, present and pending events. Other experiments provide converging data that neuronal activity is modulated by goal-directed behavioral episodes. Together, these firing patterns suggest a testable mechanism of episodic memory coding: that hippocampal dynamics encode a temporally extended, hierarchically organized representation of goal-directed behavior.



Stem cells have the remarkable ability to give rise to both self-renewing and differentiating daughter cells. Drosophila neural stem cells segregate cell-fate determinants from the self-renewing cell to the differentiating daughter at each division. Here, we show that one such determinant, the homeodomain transcription factor Prospero, regulates the choice between stem cell self-renewal and differentiation. We have identified the in vivo targets of Prospero throughout the entire genome. We show that Prospero represses genes required for self-renewal, such as stem cell fate genes and cell-cycle genes. Surprisingly, Prospero is also required to activate genes for terminal differentiation. We further show that in the absence of Prospero, differentiating daughters revert to a stem cell-like fate: they express markers of self-renewal, exhibit increased proliferation, and fail to differentiate. These results define a blueprint for the transition from stem cell self-renewal to terminal differentiation.
Xenopus has 4 and 5 digits in a forelimb and hindlimb, respectively. It is thought that their limbs and digits develop in Xenopus by mechanisms that are almost conserved from amphibians to higher vertebrates. This is supported by some molecular evidence. The 5'hoxd genes are convenient marker genes for characterizing digits in the chick and mouse. The anteriormost digit is characterized by being hoxd13-positive and hoxd12 (hoxd11)-negative in the chick and mouse. In this study, we revealed that the anteriormost digit of the Xenopus forelimb is hoxd13-positive and hoxd11-positive, that is, a more posterior character than digit I. The order of formation of digit cartilages also suggested that Xenopus forelimb digit identity is II to V, not I to IV. We have also been interested in the relationship between digit identity and shh. The anteriormost digit develops in a shh-independent way. A limb treated with cyclopamine (a shh inhibitor) has a gene expression pattern (hoxd11-negative) similar to that in shh-deficient mice, suggesting that a hindlimb treated with cyclopamine has a digit I character. However, a Xenopus froglet regenerate (spike), which lacks shh expression during its regeneration process, does not have such an expression pattern, being hoxd11-positive. We investigated hoxd11 transcriptions in blastemas that formed in the anteriormost and posteriormost digits, and we found that the blastemas have different hoxd11 expression levels. These findings suggest that the froglet limb blastema does not have a mere digit I character in spite of shh defectiveness and that the froglet limb blastema recognizes its positional differences along the anterior-posterior axis.
The junctional zone (Jz) of the mouse placenta consists of two main trophoblast populations, spongiotrophoblasts and glycogen cells (GCs), but the development and function of both cell types are unknown. We conducted a quantitative analysis of GC size, number, and invasion of cells into the decidua across gestation. Furthermore, we identified markers of GC function to investigate their possible roles in the placenta. While the spongiotrophoblast cell volume doubles, and cell number increases steadily from E12.5 to E16.5, there is a remarkable 80-fold increase in GC numbers. This finding is followed by a notable decrease by E18.5. Surprisingly, the accumulation of GCs in the decidua did not fully account for the decrease in GC number in the Jz, suggesting loss of GCs from the placenta. Glucagons were detected on GCs, suggesting a steady glucose release throughout gestation. Connexin31 staining was shown to be specific for GCs. GC migration and invasion may be facilitated by temporally regulated expression of matrix metalloproteinase 9 and the imprinted gene product, Decorin. Expression of the clearance receptor for type II insulin-like growth factor (IGF-II), IGF2R, in a short developmental window before E16.5 may be associated with regulating the growth effects of IGF-II from glycogen cells and/or labyrinthine trophoblast on the expansion of the Jz. Thus stereology and immunohistochemistry have provided useful insights into Jz development and function of the glycogen cells.
Using a subtracted Xenopus cDNA library based on the differential sensitivity of anterior and posterior genes to retinoic acid, we isolated a novel Xenopus nuclear GTP-binding protein (XGB). XGB is expressed prominently in the optic primordia at the tailbud stage. The N-terminal region of XGB contains a set of GTP-binding protein motifs, and the C-terminal region contains two putative nuclear localization signals and two coiled regions. A GFP-XGB fusion protein was expressed in the nucleus of NIH3T3 cells where it bound to subnuclear structures. Truncated C-terminal constructs of XGB containing both nuclear localization signal(s) and coiled region(s) suppressed eye formation, whereas neither the N-terminal construct nor constructs with a mutated GTP-binding protein motif affected eye formation. Expression of Pax6 and Rx1 genes, which are crucial for eye development, was reduced in embryos overexpressing the C-terminal constructs of XGB. Suppression of Pax6 and Rx1 at earlier developmental stages as well as perturbation of eye formation at later stages was counteracted by co-expression of wild-type XGB. We conclude that XGB plays a role in the formation of optic primordia through activation of at least two eye field transcription factors.
Mechanisms for shaping and folding sheets of cells during development are poorly understood. An example is the complex reorganisation of the forebrain neural plate during neurulation, which must fold a sheet into a tube while evaginating two eyes from a single contiguous domain within the neural plate. We, for the first time, track these cell rearrangements to show that forebrain morphogenesis differs significantly from prior hypotheses. We postulate a new model for forebrain neurulation and demonstrate how mutations affecting two signalling pathways can generate cyclopic phenotypes by disrupting normal cell movements or introducing new erroneous behaviours.
Intraocular concentrations of monocyte chemotactic protein-1 (MCP-1) are increased in proliferative diabetic retinopathy (PDR). Nuclear factor kappa B (NF-kappaB) is a transcription factor, and NF-kappaB binding site is located in gene promoter of MCP-1. This study was conducted to investigate the potential role of MCP-1 and NF-kappaB in the pathogenesis of PDR. Epiretinal membrane (ERM) samples were obtained during vitrectomy from 19 eyes with PDR and 16 eyes with idiopathic ERM. They were processed for RT-PCR analysis. Four PDR ERMs were processed for immunohistochemical analysis. In addition, cultured Mller glial cells were stimulated with glycated albumin or high glucose. After the stimulation, we examined nuclear localization of NF-kappaB p50, MCP-1 promoter activity, and MCP-1 concentration in culture media. MCP-1 mRNA expression was significantly higher in PDR (74%) than in idiopathic ERMs (38%) (P &lt; 0.05). Immunohistochemical analysis revealed that MCP-1 protein is colocalized with active form of NF-kappaB p50. In vitro studies demonstrated that glycated albumin or high glucose induces NF-kappaB activation followed by up-regulation of MCP-1 promoter activity and protein production in glial cells. These results suggest that MCP-1, under the regulation of NF-kappaB, is involved in the pathogenesis of PDR.
Experiments in animals leave no doubt that androgens, including testosterone, produced by the testes in fetal and/or neonatal life act on the brain to induce sex differences in neural structure and function. In this article, we argue that prenatal and neonatal testosterone exposure are strong candidates for having a causal role in sexual dimorphism in human behaviour, including social development.
Social attachment is vital for human health and welfare. Recent experimental evidence in humans has identified the role of neuroactive hormones, especially the peptide oxytocin, in mediating trusting behaviors. Herein, we test if the endocrinological basis for trust between humans scales up to the country level. Trust pervades nearly every aspect of our daily lives, yet survey data on trust show substantial variation across countries. Using 31 measures of biological, social, and environmental factors associated with hormone levels for a sample of 41 countries, we find that two classes of factors are related to trust: consumption of plant-based estrogens (phytoestrogens), and the presence of environmental conditions that include measures of estrogen-like molecules. Our findings provide preliminary evidence that interpersonal trust at the country level may be related to the intake of neuroactive hormones.
Preterm infants have low serum T4 and T3 levels, which may partly explain the immaturity of their tissues. Deiodinase enzymes are important in determining the bioavailability of thyroid hormones: deiodinases D1 and D2 convert T4 to T3, whereas deiodinase D3 inactivates T3 and produces rT3 from T4. In human and ovine fetuses, plasma T3 rises near term in association with the prepartum cortisol surge. This study investigated the developmental effects of cortisol and T3 on tissue deiodinases and plasma thyroid hormones in fetal sheep during late gestation. Plasma cortisol and T3 concentrations in utero were manipulated by exogenous hormone infusion and fetal adrenalectomy. Between 130 and 144 d of gestation (term 145+/-2 d), maturational increments in plasma cortisol and T3, and D1 (hepatic, renal, perirenal adipose tissue) and D3 (cerebral), and decrements in renal and placental D3 activities were abolished by fetal adrenalectomy. Between 125 and 130 d, iv cortisol infusion raised hepatic, renal, and perirenal adipose tissue D1 and reduced renal and placental D3 activities. Infusion with T3 alone increased hepatic D1 and decreased renal D3 activities. Therefore, in the sheep fetus, the prepartum cortisol surge induces tissue-specific changes in deiodinase activity that, by promoting production and suppressing clearance of T3, may be responsible for the rise in plasma T3 concentration near term. Some of the maturational effects of cortisol on deiodinase activity may be mediated by T3.

Temporal lobe epilepsy may be associated with emotional difficulties such as depression and anxiety. Because the amygdala is involved in both epilepsy and emotion, common neural mechanisms in this temporal lobe structure may underlie the emotional disturbances observed in people with epilepsy. The neurotransmitter serotonin (5-hydroxytryptamine, or 5-HT) is implicated in many psychopathologies, and 5-HT also modulates amygdala excitability. Therefore, the present study uses the fear-potentiated startle (FPS) paradigm to investigate the effect of neuronal excitability on fear behavior in rats treated with p-chlorophenylalanine (PCPA) to chronically inhibit 5-HT synthesis. PCPA treatment selectively enhanced FPS in individually housed rats. The exaggerated FPS response was reduced to control level by the anticonvulsant phenytoin at 10mg/kg, and phenytoin at 30mg/kg further decreased FPS behavior. These data suggest that a subseizure state of neuronal excitability mediated by low 5-HT in brain fear circuits may be associated with pathological fear behavior.
In clinical studies, interictal EEG spikes (IS) have been associated with numerous neuropsychological abnormalities, ranging from transitory cognitive impairment to epileptic encephalopathies. Understanding the pathophysiological mechanisms of IS has been hampered by the lack of validated animal models. To mimic IS, a stimulating microelectrode was implanted in the ventral hippocampal commissure and a recording microelectrode in the CA1 region of the hippocampus of normal male rats. Spike patterns were induced using a series of electrical pulses 10-30 ms in duration with a frequency of 0.5-2Hz and a current of 0.2mA. The commissural stimulation-evoked population discharges in the hippocampus resembled naturally occurring IS in epileptic rats and, in no cases, resulted in behavioral seizures. For behavioral testing, the Morris water maze, radial arm maze, and object recognition tasks were used. Spikes were induced during sleep between the two sets of water maze trials; during the trials in the radial arm maze task; and prior to the sample phase and during the delay periods in the object recognition task. We demonstrated that rats that received spikes took longer to reach the escape platform in the second set of water maze trials; had significantly more reference errors and required more trials to complete the radial arm maze task; and had lower investigation ratios in the object recognition task. The results indicate that induction of spikes in the hippocampus results in impairment of spatial reference and nonspatial object recognition memory.
The present study was performed to evaluate convulsions after food intake in fasted rats pretreated with scopolamine or atropine and to determine whether these convulsions respond to drugs found effective in fasted mice. Scopolamine (2.4 mg/kg) and atropine (2.4 mg/kg) were given intraperitoneally (i.p.) to rats fasted for 52h. Both drugs induced convulsions after animals were allowed to eat ad lib. Another group of fasted rats pretreated with saline, MK-801 (0.1mg/kg), clonidine (0.1mg/kg), chlorpromazine (2 and 4 mg/kg), valproate (200mg/kg), diazepam (1.5 and 2mg/kg) or gabapentin (50mg/kg) were treated i.p. with saline or scopolamine (2.4 mg/kg) and were allowed to eat ad lib. Clonidine, MK-801, chlorpromazine (4 mg/kg) and diazepam (2 mg/kg) reduced the incidence of scopolamine-induced convulsions in fasted rats. Gabapentin could only prolong the onset of convulsions. Neither treatment was effective against myoclonus of hindlimbs. Present results showed that fasted rats also develop antimuscarinic-induced convulsions which do not completely respond to treatments found effective in convulsions of fasted mice.
Eslicarbazepine acetate (BIA 2-093, S-(-)-10-acetoxy-10,11-dihydro-5H-dibenzo/b,f/azepine-5-carboxamide) is a novel antiepileptic drug, now in Phase III clinical trials, designed with the aim of improving efficacy and safety in comparison with the structurally related drugs carbamazepine (CBZ) and oxcarbazepine (OXC). We have studied the effects of oral treatment with eslicarbazepine acetate on a whole-animal model in which partial seizures can be elicited repeatedly on different days without changes in threshold or seizure patterns. In the animals treated with threshold doses of picrotoxin, the average number of seizures was 2.3+/-1.2, and average seizure duration was 39.5+/-8.4s. Pre-treatment with a dose of 30 mg/kg 2h before picrotoxin microperfusion prevented seizures in the 75% of the rats. Lower doses (3 and 10mg/kg) did not suppress seizures, however, after administration of 10mg/kg, significant reductions in seizures duration (24.3+/-6.8s) and seizure number (1.6+/-0.34) were found. No adverse effects of eslicarbazepine acetate were observed in the behavioral/EEG patterns studied, including sleep/wakefulness cycle, at the doses studied.
The aim of this study was to obtain a qualitative and quantitative description of the phenomenon of forced prehension during epileptic seizures (ictal grasping- IG) with hyperkinetic semiology. We analysed retrospectively the presurgical, video-EEG recordings of 35 &quot;frontal hyperkinetic&quot; seizures (FHS) in 14 patients (age range: 9-48 years) evaluating the features of ictal grasping by means of off-line, frame-by-frame video-analysis. Ictal grasping was observed in 97.1% of the frontal hyperkinetic seizures in 100% of the patients, with a mean latency of 3.2 seconds with respect to seizure-onset; a mean number of 7.7 IG per seizure were detected. During the same FHS, both arms could perform IG in an alternating fashion. Grasping was usually preceded by a reaching movement and followed by holding or pulling. The sites of prehension were restricted to relatively few sectors, either on the patient's body (45.5%) or the peri-personal space (54.5%). In some cases, the grasping was elicited by hand touching. We did not find a consistent relationship between side of hand grasping and side of ictal EEG discharge or MRI lesion. In conclusion, ictal grasping is an extremely frequent clinical manifestation during FHS. It was an early, forced and repetitive motor behavior, without a clear lateralizing value. Ictal grasping appeared with consistent semiological features, similar to voluntary prehension, suggesting a probable ictal release of physiological grasping behavior. [Published with video sequences].

We recently reported evidence of phosphatidylcholine-specific phospholipase C (PC-PLC) involvement in NK cell-mediated cytotoxicity and in lytic granule exocytosis. In the present study, different subpopulations of human PBL were investigated in relation to PC-PLC enzyme expression. While a substantial intracellular amount of PC-PLC was detected in all lymphoid subsets, expression of this enzyme on the outer membrane surface reached high levels only in NK cells, was present at low levels in B lymphocytes and in some TCR gamma/delta T cells and was practically absent in CD4(+) and CD8(+ )T lymphocytes. Moreover, in NK cells two different subpopulations were identified, CD56(dim) PC-PLC(bright) and CD56(bright) PC-PLC(low/-) cells, corresponding to distinct subsets with cytolytic and immunoregulatory functions, respectively. Interestingly, the PC-PLC expression level on the NK membrane surface correlated closely with that of the CD16 receptor, suggesting a possible relationship between enzyme externalization and NK cell maturation. In summary, our results suggest that a high PC-PLC expression on the cell membrane surface of PBL is a peculiarity of NK cytolytic cells, in which the enzyme is apparently involved in the ability of this subset to lyse sensitive target cells.
Computational models based on diffusion processes have been proposed to account for human decision-making behaviour in a variety of tasks. The basic idea is that the brain keeps accumulating noisy sensory evidence until a critical level is reached. This study explores whether such models account for the speed and accuracy of perceptual decisions in a reaction-time random dot motion direction discrimination task, and whether they explain the decision-related activity of neurons recorded from the parietal cortex (area LIP) of monkeys performing the task. While a simple diffusion model can explain the psychometric function and the mean response times of correct responses, it fails to account for the longer response times observed for errors and for the response time distributions. Here I demonstrate that a time-variant version of the diffusion model can explain the psychometric function, the mean response times and the shape of the response time distributions. Such a time-variant mechanism could be implemented in different ways, but the best match between the physiological data and model predictions is provided by a diffusion process with a gain of the sensory signals, which increases over time. It can be shown that such a time-variant decision process allows the monkey to perform optimally (in the sense of maximizing reward rate) given the risk of aborting a trial by breaking fixation before a choice can be reported. The results suggest that the brain trades off speed and accuracy not only by adjusting parameters between trials but also by dynamic adjustments during an ongoing decision.
In the main olfactory bulb, stimuli are coded within the spatio-temporal pattern of mitral cells' activity. Granule cells are interneurons that shape the mitral cells' activity, and are continuously generated in the adult main olfactory bulb. However, the role of granule cell renewal remains elusive. We show here that an associative olfactory discrimination task reduces the survival of newborn neurons. However, when the olfactory task involves perceptually related odorants, the learning process is slower and does not induce such a reduction in the number of new neurons. Mapping newborn cells within the granule cell layer of the main olfactory bulb reveals a clustered distribution that evolves with learning as a function of odorant similarity and partly overlaps with the immediate-early gene Zif268 expression pattern. These data provide insight into the functional mechanisms underlying olfactory discrimination learning, and promote the importance of neurogenesis as a cellular basis for the restructuring of odor images in the main olfactory bulb.
This is the first mapping study of the brain activity associated with the renewal of an extinguished conditioned response. Rats were given radiolabeled fluorodeoxyglucose, a glucose analog, to map brain effects of an extinguished tone during context-dependent renewal of conditioned fear. A tone conditioned stimulus was paired with a footshock unconditioned stimulus in a first context, followed by conditioned response extinction in a second context and conditioned response renewal in a third context. Control rats were treated identically, except that tone and shock were presented pseudorandomly. Compared with control subjects, rats with conditioned response renewal had increased tone-evoked fluorodeoxyglucose uptake in the auditory system (auditory cortex, medial geniculate, inferior colliculus and lateral lemniscal nuclei), as well as somatic and visceral sensory nuclei (external cuneate, spinal trigeminal, solitary tract and vestibular nuclei). In addition, perirhinal cortex, anterior lateral hypothalamus and ventrolateral periaqueductal gray showed conditioned response renewal effects. Brain-behavior correlations indicated that the activity of the external cuneate nucleus strongly predicted the conditioned response in the renewal group. It is suggested that context-dependent fear renewal is associated with (1) tone-evoked activation of the excitatory conditioned stimulus representation in the auditory system, (2) associative activation of the unconditioned stimulus representation in somatic and visceral sensory nuclei in the absence of the unconditioned stimulus, and (3) neural activation of the perirhinal cortex, hypothalamus and periaqueductal gray. These findings support Pavlov's stimulus-substitution theory as a neural mechanism contributing to the renewal effect.
In rodent species, such as the Syrian hamster, the expression of sexual preference requires neural integration of social chemosensory signals and steroid hormone cues. Although anatomical data suggest that separate pathways within the nervous system process these two signals, the functional significance of this separation is not well understood. Specifically, within the medial amygdala, the anterior region (MEa) receives input from the olfactory bulbs and other chemosensory areas, whereas the posterodorsal region (MEpd) contains a dense population of steroid receptors and receives less substantial chemosensory input. Consequently, the MEa may subserve a primarily discriminative function, whereas the MEpd may mediate the permissive effects of sex steroids on sexual preference. To test these hypotheses, we measured preference and attraction to female and male odors in males with lesions of either the MEa or MEpd. In Experiment 1, lesions of either region eliminated opposite-sex odor preferences. Importantly, MEpd-lesioned males displayed decreased attraction toward female odors, suggesting decreased sexual motivation. In contrast, MEa-lesioned males displayed high levels of investigation of both male and female odors, suggesting an inability to categorize the relevance of the odor stimuli. In Experiment 2, we verified that both MEa- and MEpd-lesioned males could discriminate between female and male odors, thereby eliminating the possibility that the observed lack of preference reflected a sensory deficit. Taken together, these results suggest that both the MEa and MEpd are critical for the expression of opposite-sex odor preference, although they appear to mediate distinct aspects of this behavior.
Modifications of the size, shape and number of dendritic spines is thought to be an important component of activity-dependent changes of neuronal circuits, and may play an important role in the plasticity of drug addiction. The present study examined whether homeostatic increases in synaptic N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA) receptors in response to chronic ethanol exposure is associated with corresponding morphological changes in dendritic spines. Prolonged exposure of rat hippocampal cultures to either the NMDA receptor antagonist d(-)-2-amino-5-phosphono-pentanoic acid or to ethanol increased punctate staining of F-actin and the postsynaptic density protein-95 (PSD-95). The increase in dendritic F-actin occurred only with clusters that co-localized with PSD-95 clusters, indicating that these actin structures likely represent dendritic spines. The ethanol-induced increases in PSD-95 and F-actin clusters were activity-dependent and reversible. Finally, inhibition of protein palmitoylation prevented ethanol-induced increases in synaptic NMDA receptor clustering and F-actin without altering the basal clustering of either F-actin or PSD-95. These observations support a model in which chronic ethanol exposure induces homeostatic increases of NR2B-containing NMDA receptors and PSD-95 to the postsynaptic density. This in turn may provide a scaffolding platform for the subsequent recruitment of actin signaling cascades that alter actin cycling and promote spine enlargement.
In humans, hyperbaric pressure induces the high-pressure neurological syndrome (HPNS). HPNS is characterized by tremor, sleep disorders, electroencephalographic changes, and impairment of cognitive and motor performances. In animals, higher pressures result in convulsions and death. An increased N-methyl-d-aspartate receptor (NMDAR) response has been implicated with HPNS. We studied high-pressure effects on pharmacologically isolated NMDAR field excitatory postsynaptic potentials (fEPSPs). Hippocampal coronal brain slices from male Sprague-Dawley rats were prepared, constantly superfused with physiological solutions, gas-saturated at normobaric pressure and compressed up to 10.1 MPa with helium. fEPSPs were recorded from the dendritic layer of CA1 pyramidal neurones. High pressure significantly increased the single fEPSP delay, maximal initial slope, amplitude, decay time and time integral (elevated Na(+) and Ca(2+) influx) despite the known general decrease in glutamatergic synaptic release. The estimated negative and positive activation volumes (DeltaV*) for various kinetic segments of the fEPSP suggest a complex response of the receptor to pressure. The NMDAR frequency response was tested by a train of five stimuli. At 50-100 Hz, high pressure did not increase the fEPSPs' frequency-dependent depression and the train's time integral remained unchanged. At 25 Hz, pressure induced a larger frequency-dependent depression and significantly increased the time integral. Our results provide, for the first time, direct information on the isolated brain NMDAR response under hyperbaric conditions. These observations may explain some increase in the excitability of single normal glutametergic fEPSPs and their frequency responses.
Recent studies examining the neuroendocrine response pattern underlying the human sexual response cycle revealed transient activation of the sympathoadrenal system and a substantial, long-lasting increase in plasma prolactin concentrations following orgasm in men and women. Prolactin has been discussed as being part of a feedback mechanism that signals centers in the central nervous system, such as the dopaminergic system controlling sexual arousal. To further elucidate the central role of neuropeptides, biogenic monoamines and neurotransmitters in human sexual behavior, a serial cerebrospinal fluid (CSF)-sampling technique was implemented using a previously established experimental paradigm for sexual activity in a laboratory setting. In parallel with peripheral endocrine measures, lumbar CSF was drawn via an indwelling spinal catheter during the sexual response cycle in 10 healthy males and 10 age-matched controls, and analysed for prolactin, oxytocin, biogenic monoamines and/or their metabolites as well as inhibitory and excitatory neurotransmitter concentrations. Parallel to raised peripheral sympathetic activity, norepinephrine also increased in CSF during audiovisual, masturbation-induced sexual arousal and orgasm, and remained elevated for the remainder of the session (F(4,72) = 8.79, P = 0.000). In contrast, none of the other measures, in particular prolactin and dopamine or its metabolites, reflected significant alteration. In conclusion, the human sexual response cycle is characterized by an increase in sympathetic activity in plasma and CSF, and by pronounced secretion of plasma prolactin after orgasm. However, alterations in dopaminergic or peptidergic activity are not found in lumbar CSF, possibly due to local and restricted release in diencephalic and mesencephalic brain regions.
Transmembrane isoforms of adenylate cyclases (AC) integrate a wide variety of extracellular signals from neurotransmitters to morphogens and can also regulate cAMP production in response to calcium entry. Based on observations in the barrelless mouse strain, the Adcy1 gene (AC1) was involved in the segregation of binocular retinal inputs. To determine the potential role of other AC isoforms we localized the Adcy genes in the visual centres during development, using in situ hybridization. Six different AC subtypes were found in the developing retinal ganglion cell layer (RGC; AC1, AC2, AC3, AC5, AC8, and AC9), and three AC subtypes were expressed in the central brain targets, the dorsal lateral geniculate nucleus (AC1 and AC8), the ventral lateral geniculate nucleus (AC2 and AC8) and the superior colliculus (AC1, AC2, AC8). Using a genetic approach we tested the role of the calcium modulated cyclases AC1, AC5 and AC8 for the segregation retinal fibres. Ipsilateral retinal axons remained exuberant in the AC1(-/-) mice, with overlapping retinal projections from both eyes in the superior colliculus and the visual thalamus. These abnormalities were similar to those of barrelless mouse mutants. No abnormalities were detectable in the AC5(-/-) or the AC8(-/-) mice. Similar abnormalities were noted in the single AC1(-/-) and the AC1/AC8 double-knockout mice (DKO). Thus, only AC1 is required for the maturation of the retinal axon terminals whereas AC5 and AC8 are not needed. The specificity of AC1's action is linked to its cellular localization in the RGCs and to its distinctive functional profile, compared with the other cyclases expressed in the same cells.
This study explored the effects of riluzole administration on cell survival and neurite growth in adult and neonatal rat dorsal root ganglion (DRG) neurones in vitro. Neuronal survival was assessed by comparing numbers of remaining neurones in vehicle- and riluzole-treated cultures. A single dose of 0.1 microm riluzole was sufficient to promote neuronal survival in neonatal DRG cultures, whereas repeated riluzole administration was necessary in adult cultures. However, a single administration of riluzole was sufficient to induce neuritogenesis, promote neurite branching and enhance neurite outgrowth in both neonatal and adult DRG cultures. The effects of a single dose of riluzole on adult DRG neurones after peripheral nerve or dorsal root injury were also studied in vitro at 48 h. For both types of injury, riluzole enhanced neurite outgrowth in terms of number, length and branch pattern significantly more on the injured side as compared with the contralateral side. No effect was seen on cell survival. The results suggest that, in addition to its cell survival effects, riluzole has novel growth-promoting effects on sensory neurones in vitro and that riluzole may offer a new way to promote sensory afferent regeneration following peripheral injury.
The G protein-coupled pheromone receptor neurons (V1R and V2R) of the vomeronasal organ (VNO) are continually replaced throughout the lifetime of the mouse. Moreover, active signalling of V2Rs via the transient receptor potential 2(TRPC2) channel is necessary for regeneration of receptors, as the TRPC2 null mutant mouse showed a 75% reduction of V2Rs by the age of two months. Here we describe V2R mediated signalling in a neuronal line established from vomeronasal stem cells taken from postnatal female mice. Cells were immunoreactive for Galpha(o) and V2R, whereas V1R and Galpha(i) immunoreactivity could not be detected. Biological ligands (dilute urine and its protein fractions) were found to increase proliferation and survival of these neurons. Dilute mouse urine but not artificial urine also induced ERK, Akt and CREB signalling in a dose dependent way. The volatile fraction of male mouse urine alone was without effect while the fraction containing peptides (&gt; 5 kDa) also stimulated ERK and Akt phosphorylation. The ERK, Akt and CREB phosphorylation response was sensitive to pertussis toxin, confirming the involvement of V2R linked Galpha(o). Dilute mouse urine or its high molecular weight protein fraction increased survival and proliferation of these neurons. Hence, urinary pheromones, which signal important social information via mature neurons, also promote survival and proliferation of their regenerating precursors. These data show that regenerating V2Rs respond to urine and the urinary peptides by activation of the Ras-ERK and PI3-Akt pathways, which appear to be important for vomeronasal neural survival and proliferation.
Oscillatory synchronization in the beta (approximately 20 Hz) band is a common feature of human motor control, manifest at cortical and muscular levels during tonic contraction. Here we test the hypothesis that the influence of visual feedback on performance in a positional hold task is increased during bursts of beta-band synchrony in the corticospinal motor system. Healthy subjects were instructed to extend their forefinger while receiving high-gain visual feedback of finger position on a PC screen. Small step displacements of the feedback signal were triggered either by bursts of beta oscillations in scalp electroencephalogram or randomly with respect to cortical beta activity, and the resulting positional corrections expressed as a percentage of the step displacement. Corrective responses to beta and randomly triggered step changes in visual feedback were 41.7+/-4.9 and 31.5+/-6.8%, respectively (P&lt;0.05). A marked increase in the coherence in the beta band was also found between muscle activity and cortical activity during the beta-triggered condition. The results suggest that phasic elevations of beta activity in the corticospinal motor system are associated with an increase in the gain of the motor response to visual feedback during a tonic hold task. Beta activity may index a motor state in which processing relevant to the control of positional hold tasks is promoted, with behavioural consequences.
Evidence of stimulus attribute-specificity within the prefrontal cortex (PFC) suggests that different prefrontal subregions may contribute to cocaine addiction in functionally distinct ways. Thus, the present study examined the effects of lidocaine-induced inactivation of two distinct PFC subregions, the prelimbic (PL) or dorsal agranular insular (AId) cortices, on drug-seeking and drug-taking behaviors under cocaine maintenance and reinstatement testing conditions in rats trained to self-administer 1 mg/kg cocaine under a second-order schedule of drug delivery. Throughout maintenance and reinstatement phases, rats were exposed to conditioned light cues and contextual odor or sound cues. Results showed that PL inactivation during maintenance test sessions significantly reduced drug-seeking and drug-taking behaviors, and disrupted patterns of responding in rats exposed to light-sound, but not light-odor, cues. Moreover, lidocaine-induced inactivation of the PL significantly attenuated drug-seeking behavior during cue-induced and cocaine prime-induced reinstatement in rats exposed to light-sound cues only. In contrast, AId inactivation significantly attenuated cue-induced reinstatement of drug-seeking behavior in rats exposed to light-odor cues only. Drug-seeking and drug-taking behaviors in these rats were not disrupted during maintenance and cocaine prime-induced reinstatement testing regardless of the type of contextual cues used. Together, these data suggest that PL and AId subregions play separate yet overlapping roles in regulating cocaine addiction in rats in ways that are dependent on the presence or absence of cocaine and on the types of contextual cues present in the cocaine self-administration environment.
Neurogenesis in the adult mammalian hippocampus resulting in long-term persistence of new neurons with features of capacity for functional activation is recognized. Many stimuli are capable of increasing the rate of neurogenesis, including seizure activity. Whether these insults result in an increased number of new functionally active neurons over and above the baseline rate of neurogenesis is not known. The rapid electrical amygdala kindling (REAK) model of seizures isolates the effects of seizures alone in the absence of neuronal death and the resulting seizures induce expression of c-Fos in the vast majority of dentate gyrus (DG) granule cells. C57BL/6 mice were exposed to REAK then injected with bromodeoxyuridine (BrDU) to label dividing cells, then re-exposed to REAK after a delay period to allow detection of functional activation in new neurons by measurement c-Fos expression in response to seizures. Adult subgranular zone cells migrated into the DG granule cell layer (GCL), assumed a neuronal phenotype and demonstrated seizure-dependent responsiveness. Larger absolute numbers of new neurons demonstrating seizure-dependent activation were found in the GCL of previously kindled mice. Seizures are capable of increasing the number of new neurons with the capacity for functional activation laid down in the postseizure period and incorporated into seizure-activated circuitry.
The cholinergic system is crucially involved in several cognitive processes including attention, learning and memory. Muscarinic actions have profound effects on the intrinsic firing pattern of neurons. In principal neurons of the entorhinal cortex (EC), muscarinic receptors activate an intrinsic cation current that causes multiple self-sustained spiking activity, which represents a potential mechanism for transiently sustaining information about novel items. The amygdala appears to be important for experience-dependent learning by emotional arousal, and cholinergic muscarinic influences are essential for the amygdala-mediated modulation of memory. Here we show that principal neurons from the lateral nucleus of the amygdala (LA) can generate intrinsic graded persistent activity that is similar to EC layer V cells. This firing behavior is linked to muscarinic activation of a calcium-sensitive non-specific cation current and can be mimicked by stimulation of cholinergic afferents that originate from the nucleus basalis of Meynert (n. M). Moreover, we demonstrate that the projections from the n. M. are essential and sufficient for the control and modulation of graded firing activity in LA neurons. We found that activation of these cholinergic afferents (i) is required to maintain and to increase firing rates in a graded manner, and (ii) is sufficient for the graded increases of stable discharge rates even without an associated up-regulation of Ca2+. The induction of persistent activity was blocked by flufenamic acid or 2-APB and remained intact after Ca2+-store depletion with thapsigargin. The internal ability of LA neurons to generate graded persistent activity could be essential for amygdala-mediated memory operations.
In mice, the genetic background determines susceptibility to hippocampal neurodegeneration induced by the excitotoxin kainic acid (KA). If genetic background plays as significant a role in the striatum, the area most affected in Huntington's disease (HD), it is important to characterize intrinsic differences in neuronal susceptibility in mouse strains used in HD models. This study was performed to investigate whether strain differences of different HD mouse models are determinants of striatal resistance to excitotoxicity. We conducted a survey of the susceptibility of striatal neurons to neurodegeneration induced by quinolinic acid and KA in six inbred, two outbred and two F1 hybrid (resistant*vulnerable) strains. These are the same strains in which we have assessed vulnerability to KA-induced hippocampal neurodegeneration. We found significant strain differences in response to both excitotoxins and, for the most part, the strain-dependent patterns of susceptibility to quinolinic acid and KA were similar and comparable to those previously found with KA-induced hippocampal neurodegeneration. There were some incongruities, suggesting that the genetic determinants may be different for the two forms of excitotoxicity or that there are important interacting factors. For example, the F1 hybrid strains exhibited neurodegeneration similar to their vulnerable parent, indicating that the vulnerable phenotype is dominant. This is in contrast to KA-induced hippocampal neurodegeneration, where F1 hybrids exhibit the resistant phenotype. These results are also of significance with regard to the issue of region-specific vulnerability in the context of different diseases in which genetic modifiers affect age of onset and/or disease progression.
The subunit composition of N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptors affects their function under normal and pathological conditions. Functional NMDA receptors are expressed in lower motor neurons, but their subunit composition has not been defined. Here, we employed electrophysiology, quantitative PCR, and immunohistochemistry to investigate the subunit composition of NMDA receptors in postnatal motor neurons of the Wistar rat facial nucleus (FN). Whole-cell patch clamp recordings of acutely dissociated motor neurons from postnatal days 3 and 4 (P3-P4) showed that ifenprodil, a specific antagonist of the NMDA receptor 2B (NR2B) subunit, inhibited 91.62%+/-2.02% of NMDA-induced current, whereas NVP-AAM007, a specific antagonist of the NMDA receptor 2A (NR2A) subunit, inhibited much less of the current (16.69%+/-3.28%). Starting from P5, the inhibitory effects of ifenprodil and NVP-AAM007 gradually decreased and increased, respectively, such that the effect of NVP-AAM007 exceeded that of ifenprodil by P10. At P14, most of the NMDA-induced current was inhibited by NVP-AAM007 (84.59%+/-3.35%). Consistent with this, NR2B mRNA and protein were expressed highly at P3 and then gradually decreased by more than 75% by P14 in FN motor neurons, while NR1 was expressed stably over the same ages. However, NR2A mRNA and protein showed relatively constant levels between P3-P10 and decreased to 45% and 75% of the P3 level, respectively, by P14. Thus, analysis of functional NMDA receptors is critical to revealing subunit switching, which may be an important step in postnatal development of FN motor neurons.
We have reported that acute d-amphetamine increases extracellular concentrations (efflux) of neurotensin-like immunoreactivity (NT-LI) and neuropeptide Y-LI (NPY-LI) in the ventral striatum (VSTR) of freely moving rats, effects that are abolished by chronic administration of haloperidol and risperidone admixed to food pellets. In this study we further investigated the d-amphetamine effects on NT-LI and NPY-LI efflux in VSTR and their content in selected brain regions. Rats received haloperidol, risperidone or vehicle for 30days and saline or d-amphetamine either on days 22-29 and/or day 30. Seven day d-amphetamine administration decreased basal NT-LI and NPY-LI efflux in vehicle-treated rats; pretreatment with haloperidol counteracted these effects, while pretreatment with risperidone had effect only on NT-LI. Acute d-amphetamine after the seven day d-amphetamine increased NT-LI only. Pretreatment with haloperidol or risperidone abolished the effects of acute d-amphetamine on NT-LI and NPY-LI. Acute and seven day d-amphetamine increased NT-LI and NPY-LI contents in striatum; seven day d-amphetamine also increased NT-LI in frontal and occipital cortex and both NT-LI and NPY-LI in hippocampus. Our results suggest that NT and NPY are involved in both the pathophysiology and the therapeutics of schizophrenia.
A common feature of neurodegenerative disorders is acute or progressive loss of neurons due to apoptosis. The pathological isoform of the prion protein is associated with retinal apoptosis and the cellular isoform (PrPc) has been shown to mediate protection from apoptosis in cell culture and in neonatal retinal explants. Using a model of light-induced photoreceptor apoptosis, we show in vivo that the levels of PrPc expression in the retina inversely correlate with the susceptibility of photoreceptors to light damage. Dissection of apoptotic signalling cascades suggests that PrPc acts neuroprotectively downstream of AP-1 induction. Our results reveal PrP as a neuroprotective/anti-apoptotic factor in vivo and suggest that PrPc may function as a guardian of neuronal integrity.

Drosophila continues to be a model system of choice to study the genetics of aging. It has a short lifespan and small genome size, but nevertheless contains a complex organ and endocrine system that allows studying the role of conserved signal transduction pathways with sophisticated genetic tools. Oxidative stress and metabolic changes along with intersecting signaling systems Insulin Receptor (InR), Target of Rapamycin (TOR) and Jun N-terminal Kinase (JNK) have emerged as some of the major players in aging. Sleep and organ-specific aging has also been the subject of recent progress in understanding aging.

Pallidal recordings of local field potentials (LFPs) in patients with dystonia have demonstrated semi-oscillatory activity over 3-12 Hz. Although this activity has been hypothesized to contribute to dystonia, it is unclear to what extent these LFP oscillations arise in the globus pallidus interna (GPi) and are synchronous with local neuronal discharge. We therefore recorded LFPs and neuronal activity from microelectrodes inserted into the pallidum on nine sides in six awake patients with primary dystonia during functional neurosurgery. Mean normalized LFP power over 3-12 Hz was higher in GPi than globus pallidus externa. Spike triggered averages were computed, and 11 exhibited significant features in the 3-12 Hz band, indicating that the discharges of local neurons were locked to 3-12 Hz oscillations in the LFP. All but two of these STAs were in GPi. We conclude that pallidal oscillations at 3-12 Hz are maximal in GPi, the surgical target, in patients with dystonia and that they can be synchronized to activity in local neurons. This lends support to a pathophysiological relationship between LFP activity at 3-12 Hz and dystonia.
Local field potential (LFP) gamma (55-95 Hz) activity has been recorded in the vicinity of the subthalamic nucleus with both microelectrodes and macroelectrodes in patients with Parkinson's disease undergoing functional neurosurgery. Although this activity increases with movement its functional significance remains unknown. We hypothesised that elevations in local gamma activity might be associated with an increase in the capacity of individual spike trains to code information. Changes in the median firing frequency, entropy and baud were determined during spontaneous variations in the level of simultaneously recorded LFP gamma activity in a sample of 31 neurons. The latter were recorded from the zona incerta (n = 5) and subthalamic nucleus (n = 26) in 10 parkinsonian patients. Although 19% of neurons showed a decrease in firing rate, overall there was a net increase in spike frequency and baud of 18.0+/-5.5% and 16.9+/-5.3%, when periods of high gamma were compared to periods of low gamma LFP activity. In contrast, entropy dropped by only 0.8+/-0.2% across the sampled neuronal population during periods of high gamma. All net changes were significant. We conclude that overall there was a net elevation in firing rate and potential information coding capacity, assessed in terms of baud, amongst neurons during periods of elevated gamma LFP activity in the subthalamic region.
Brief exposure to excitotoxic agonists can result in substantial loss of the microtubule-associated protein MAP2 from neuronal dendrites, and accumulation in somata. A possible mechanism underling MAP2 loss is the activation of the calcium-dependent protease calpain by excessive dendritic Ca2+-loading. The present study examined mechanisms of MAP2 redistribution and loss of synaptic efficacy in the CA1 region of acutely prepared hippocampal slices. Brief NMDA exposure resulted in persistent and profound inhibition of postsynaptic potentials, and loss of MAP2 from dendritic compartments. When Ca2+ was removed during NMDA exposure, synaptic potentials recovered significantly during NMDA washout, and MAP2 loss was reduced. Calpain inhibition with MDL 28,170 (20 microM) did not prevent the loss of synaptic potentials, nor did it attenuate the initial aggregation of MAP2 into irregular dendritic swellings. However MDL 28,170 did reduce subsequent MAP2 loss from abnormal dendritic aggregates. Pre-exposure of slices to taxol (100 nM) effectively prevented microtubule depolymerization following NMDA exposure, as well as MAP2 disorganization and loss from apical dendrites. Slices treated with taxol also exhibited substantial recovery of synaptic potentials after transient NMDA stimulus. These results demonstrate a close correspondence between the maintained localization of MAP2 in apical dendrites and the recovery of postsynaptic potentials following transient NMDA exposure. In addition, it appears that rather than underlying the initial disruption of microtubule structure via MAP2 proteolysis, calpain activity instead may contribute to the degradation of irregularly aggregated MAP2 observed following microtubule depolymerization.
Glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF) is a trophic factor for peripheral organs, spinal cord, and midbrain dopamine (DA) neurons. Levels of GDNF deteriorate in the substantia nigra in Parkinson's disease (PD). A heterozygous mouse model was created to assess whether chronic reductions in this neurotrophic factor impact motor function and the nigrostriatal dopamine system during the aging process. Due to the important role GDNF plays in kidney development, kidney function and histology were assessed and were found to be normal in both wild-type (WT) and GDNF+/- mice up to 22 months of age. Further, the animals of both genotypes had similar weights throughout the experiment. Locomotor activity was assessed for male WT and GDNF+/- mice at 4-month intervals from 4 to 20 months of age. Both GDNF+/- and WT mice exhibited an age-related decline in horizontal activity, although this was found 4 months earlier in GDNF+/- mice, at 12 months of age. Comparison of young (8 month old) and aged (20 month old) GDNF+/- and WT mice on an accelerating rotarod apparatus established a deficiency for aged but not young GDNF+/- mice, while aged WT mice performed as well as young WT mice on this task. Finally, both WT and GDNF+/- mice exhibited an age-related decrease in substantia nigra TH immunostaining, which was accelerated in the GDNF+/- mice. These behavioral and histological alterations suggest that GDNF may be an important factor for maintenance of motor coordination and spontaneous activity as well as DA neuronal function during aging, and further suggest that GDNF+/- mice may serve as a model for neuroprotective or rescue studies.
Cyclin-dependent kinase 5 (CDK5), a unique member of the CDK family of cyclin-dependent kinases, is predominantly expressed in postmitotic neurons with proposed roles in both cell survival and programmed cell death. To understand how CDK5 participates in such disparate cellular outcomes, we investigated whether activation of CDK5 could mediate neuroprotection from serum deprivation by mu-opioid receptor agonist in differentiated SH-SY5Y cells and primary hippocampal neurons. We found that CDK5 kinase activity decreased following serum deprivation in differentiated SH-SY5Y cells coincident with increased cell loss and activation of caspases cascade activation, which was reversed by opioid antagonist. Overexpression of CDK5 in serum-free medium reversed activation of caspase cascade and augmented DAMGO neuroprotection. Blocking CDK5 activity by pharmacologic inhibitor, roscovitine or overexpression of dominant negative CDK5 augmented activation of cell death markers and diminished mu-opioid receptor agonist protection. Reduction in CDK5 activity corresponded to reduction in protein levels of CDK5 activator p35 during serum deprivation which was also reversed by mu-opioid receptor agonist. Phosphorylation of STAT3 at Serine 727 by CDK5 decreased during serum deprivation, and partly recovered by mu-opioid agonist. PI3K signaling pathway was not required for CDK5-mediated mu-opioid neuroprotection against serum deprivation. These findings indicate that neuroprotection by mu-opioid receptor agonist against serum deprivation is mediated by activation of CDK5 through up-regulation of p35 and phosphorylation of STAT3 by CDK5 may contribute to the neuroprotection.
Although a well-known clinical phenomenon, there still remain some questions regarding the definitions, pathophysiology and epidemiology of early and late poststroke seizures and of poststroke epilepsy. Poststroke seizures and epilepsy constitute important complications in patients surviving a stroke. Several studies of the prevalence and possible predictors of poststroke seizures and epilepsy have been undertaken during the past few decades. Unfortunately, these studies have not consistently used the established definitions. There are only few studies concerning treatment of poststroke epilepsy in the elderly, especially regarding the effect of the newer antiepileptic drugs. The aim of this article is to give an overview of the latest studies of poststroke seizures, with special emphasis on poststroke epilepsy, by presenting data on occurrence, predictors and treatment. The results from the recent studies on both poststroke seizures (early and late) and poststroke epilepsy are quite consistent. Poststroke epilepsy appears to occur in 2-4% of patients. The most convincing predictors of late poststroke seizures and epilepsy and treatment options are discussed in this review.
Atypical antipsychotics have been used to treat patients with schizophrenia for many years, but now there is increasing evidence of their utility in the treatment of mood disorders. In the past few years, several atypical agents have received regulatory approval for use in mania. The evidence shows that atypical antipsychotics are effective in the treatment of manic symptoms, either alone or in combination with traditional mood stabilizers, such as lithium and divalproex. Although emerging data indicate that atypical antipsychotics will be a promising addition to those therapies that are currently available for managing patients during the maintenance phase of bipolar illness, their potential in the long-term management of bipolar disorder remains to be fully explored. Aripiprazole is a recently released antipsychotic medication that differs from other atypical antipsychotic agents by its mode of action as a dopamine D2 partial agonist. It is administered orally and has a long half-life. Randomized studies have demonstrated the efficacy of aripiprazole compared with placebo in the treatment of acute relapse of schizophrenia and schizoaffective disorder, maintenance treatment of schizophrenia, treatment of acute mania, and prevention of manic relapse in patients who responded to the drug during a manic episode. Further studies are ongoing in bipolar and unipolar depression. Aripiprazole is generally well tolerated compared with other antipsychotic medications, although commonly reported side effects include extrapyramidal symptoms and motoric activation similar to akathisia. Further studies and postmarketing data will be helpful in providing additional information regarding the comparative safety, efficacy and tolerability of aripiprazole in the treatment of affective disorders.
Top-down mass spectrometry focuses on intact proteins, thereby avoiding loss of information accompanying 'shotgun' protocols that reduce the proteome to a collection of peptides. A suite of liquid-chromatography technologies has been developed for purification of intact integral membrane proteins in aqueous/organic solvent mixtures compatible with biological 'soft-ionization' mass spectrometry, preserving covalent structure into the gas phase. Multiply charged protein ions are fragmented in the gas phase, using either collision-activated or electron-capture dissociation, thus yielding complex spectra of sequence-dependent product ions that collectively define the original native covalent state of an intact protein. Top down offers a more detail-orientated approach to post-transcriptional and post-translational diversity allowing an enhanced insight beyond genomic translation, which has now extended into the bilayer proteome.
A number of hypotheses regarding how anti-Abeta antibodies alter amyloid deposition have been postulated, yet there is no consensus as to how Abeta immunotherapy works. We have examined the in vivo binding properties, pharmacokinetics, brain penetrance, and alterations in Abeta levels after a single peripheral dose of anti-Abeta antibodies to both wild-type (WT) and young non-Abeta depositing APP and BRI-Abeta42 mice. The rapid rise in plasma Abeta observed after antibody (Ab) administration is attributable to prolongation of the half-life of Abeta bound to the Ab. Only a miniscule fraction of Ab enters the brain, and despite dramatic increases in plasma Abeta, we find no evidence that total brain Abeta levels are significantly altered. Surprisingly, cerebral spinal fluid Abeta levels transiently rise, and when Ab:Abeta complex is directly injected into the lateral ventricles of mice, it is rapidly cleared from the brain into the plasma where it remains stable. When viewed in context of daily turnover of Abeta, these data provide a framework to evaluate proposed mechanisms of Abeta attenuation mediated by peripheral administration of an anti-Abeta monoclonal antibody (mAb) effective in passive immunization paradigm. Such quantitative data suggest that the mAbs are either indirectly enhancing clearance of Abeta or targeting a low abundance aggregation intermediate.
An expansion in the CAG repeat of the IT15 (huntingtin) gene underlies the development of Huntington's disease (HD), but the basis for the specific vulnerability of dopamine-receptive striatal neurons remains unclear. To examine the potential role of the dopamine system in the emergence of pathological conditions in HD, we generated a double mutant mouse strain with both enhanced dopamine transmission and endogenous expression of a mutant huntingtin gene. This strain was generated by crossing the dopamine transporter knock-out mouse, which exhibits a 5-fold elevation in extracellular dopamine levels in the striatum and locomotor hyperactivity, to a knock-in mouse model of HD containing 92 CAG repeats. These double mutant mice exhibited an increased stereotypic activity at 6 months of age, followed by a progressive decline of their locomotor hyperactivity. Expression of the mutated huntingtin did not alter dopamine or its metabolite levels in normal or dopamine transporter knock-out mice. However, the mutant huntingtin protein aggregated much earlier and to a greater extent in the striatum and other dopaminergic brain regions in the hyperdopaminergic mouse model of HD. Furthermore, the formation of neuropil aggregates in the striatum and other regions of hyperdopaminergic HD mice was observed at 4 months of age, well before similar events occurred in normal HD mice (12 months). These findings indicate that dopamine contributes to the deleterious effects of mutated huntingtin on striatal function, and this is accompanied by enhanced formation of huntingtin aggregates.
Since its' discovery over 20 years ago, BDNF has been shown to play a key role in neuronal survival, in promoting neuronal regeneration following injury, regulating transmitter systems and attenuating neural-immune responses. Estrogen's actions in the young and mature brain, and its role in neurodegenerative diseases in many cases overlaps with those observed for BDNF. Reduced estrogen and BDNF are observed in patients with Parkinson's disease and Alzheimer's disease, while high estrogen levels are a risk factor for development of multiple sclerosis. Estrogen receptors, which transduce the actions of estrogen, colocalize to cells that express BDNF and its receptor trkB, and estrogen further regulates the expression of this neurotrophin system. This review describes the distribution of BDNF and trkB expressing cells in the forebrain, and the roles of estrogen and the BDNF-trkB neurotrophin system in Parkinson's disease, Alzheimer's disease and multiple sclerosis.
We are examining the role of insulin-like growth factor-I (IGF-I) and downstream signal transduction pathways associated with growth factors (e.g., mitogen-activated protein kinase, MAPK) in estradiol and progesterone facilitation of female reproductive behavior in rats. Brain IGF-I receptor activity is required for the long-term, priming actions of estradiol on the female reproductive axis. Infusions of an IGF-I receptor antagonist during estradiol priming blocks induction of hypothalamic alpha(1B)-adrenergic receptors and luteinizing hormone surges, and attenuates lordosis behavior. Infusion of MAPK and phosphatidylinositol-3-kinase inhibitors inhibitors during estradiol priming completely blocks hormone-facilitated lordosis. Because progestin receptors (PRs) can be phosphorylated and activated by MAPKs, growth factor signaling pathways may also participate in progesterone facilitation of reproductive behaviors. Infusion of a MAPK inhibitor in estradiol-primed rats blocks progestin facilitation and sequential inhibition of lordosis and proceptive behaviors. Interference with MAPK signaling also inhibits behavioral responses to cGMP and a delta-opioid agonist, both of which can activate MAPK in some cells. Thus MAPK is involved in the facilitation of lordosis and proceptive behaviors, perhaps by phosphorylation of hypothalamic PRs.
Although cannabis has been used both recreationally and for medicinal purposes since ancient times, it was not until the 1990s that the receptors responsible for many of the actions of Delta(9)-tetrahydrocannabinol, the main psychoactive ingredient of cannabis, were cloned. Since then, our knowledge of the endogenous cannabinoid system, its physiology, pharmacology and therapeutic potential have expanded enormously. In the present review, the cannabinoid system is described, with particular emphasis on the mechanisms of removal and metabolism of the endocannabinoid signalling molecule anandamide. The current literature shows that cells can accumulate anandamide, and that this process can be disrupted pharmacologically, but that the nature of the mechanism(s) involved remains a matter of some debate. The main enzyme for the hydrolysis of anandamide, fatty acid amide hydrolase, is well characterized, and molecules selectively inhibiting this enzyme have potential therapeutic utility in a number of areas, in particular for the treatment of pain conditions.

An increasing number of oncolytic viruses have been developed and studied for cancer therapy. In response to needs for non-invasive monitoring and imaging of oncolytic virotherapy, several different approaches, including a positron emission tomography-based method, a method using secreted marker peptides, and optical imaging-based methods, have been reported. Among these modalities, we utilized the luciferase-based bioluminescent assay/imaging systems to determine the kinetics and dynamics of a productive viral infection. The replication cycle of herpes simplex virus type 1 (HSV-1) is punctuated by a temporal cascade of three classes of viral genes: immediate-early (IE), early (E) and late (L) genes. U(L)39- and gamma(1)34.5-deleted, replication-conditional HSV-1 mutants that express firefly luciferase under the control of the IE4/5 or strict-late gC promoters were generated. These oncolytic viruses were examined in cultured cells and a mouse tumor model. IE promoter- and strict-late promoter-mediated luciferase expression was confirmed to indicate viral infection and replication, respectively. Incorporation of a strict-late promoter-driven luciferase cassette into oncolytic HSV-1 vectors would be useful for assessing tumor oncolysis in preclinical tumor treatment studies.
Collapsin response mediator proteins (CRMPs) consist of five homologous cytosolic proteins that participate in signal transduction involved in a variety of physiological events. CRMP1 is highly expressed during brain development; however, its functions remains unclear. To gain insight into its function, we generated CRMP1(-/-) mice with a knock-in LacZ gene. No gross anatomical changes or behavioral alterations were observed. Expression of CRMP1 was examined by the expression of the knocked-in LacZ gene, in situ hybridization with riboprobes and by imunohistochemistry. CRMP1 was found to be highly expressed in the developing the cerebellum, olfactory bulbs, hypothalamus and retina. In adults, expression level was high in the olfactory bulbs and hippocampus but very low in the retina and cerebellum and undetectable in hypothalamus. To study potential roles of CRMP1, we focused on cerebellum development. CRMP1(-/-) mice showed a decrease in the number of granule cells migrating out of explants of developing cerebellum, as did treatment of the explants from normal mice with anti-CRMP1 specific antibodies. CRMP1(-/-) mice showed a decrease in granule cell proliferation and apoptosis in external granule cell layers in vivo. Adult cerebellum of CRMP1(-/-) did not show any abnormalities.
Unbiased genetic analysis of experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE) can provide insights into the pathogenesis of multiple sclerosis. To date five genome-wide scans using F2 crosses between different inbred rats have been performed with the aim of defining EAE-regulating quantitative trait loci (QTLs) as the starting point for identification of the underlying genes. We here report the first combined-cross analysis of three F2 crosses previously performed in our group. The majority of QTLs was shared between the different strain combinations and was therefore reproduced by the combined-cross analysis. Consequently, combined-cross analysis improved the power to detect QTLs with modest effects and narrowed QTL confidence intervals. The findings also demonstrate a lack of power in previous F2 crosses and encourage future use of larger populations. Moreover, the allelic states of shared QTLs could be established, thus providing critical information for narrowing QTLs and identifying the key polymorphism by subsequent haplotype analysis.
Members of the solute carrier family 25 (SLC25) are known to transport molecules over the mitochondrial membrane. In this paper we present 14 novel members of SLC25 family in human. These were provided with following gene symbols by the HGNC: SLC25A32, SLC25A33, SLC25A34, SLC25A35, SLC25A37, SLC25A38, SLC25A39, SLC25A40, SLC25A41, SLC25A42, SLC25A43, SLC25A44, SLC25A45, and SLC25A46. We also identified the orthologues for these genes in rat and mouse. Moreover, we found yeast orthologues for 9 of these genes and show that the predicted substrate binding residues are highly conserved in the human and yeast proteins. We performed a comprehensive tissue localization study for 9 of these genes on a panel of 30 rat tissues with quantitative real-time polymerse chain reaction. We detected their mRNA in a wide number of tissues, both in brain and in periphery. This study provides an overall roadmap of the repertoire of the SLC25 family in mammals, showing that there are at least 46 genes in the human genome coding for mitochondrial transporters.
Microglia are increasingly implicated as a source of non-neural regulation of postnatal neurogenesis and neuronal development. To evaluate better the contributions of microglia to neural stem cells (NSCs) of the subventricular neuraxis, we employed an adherent culture system that models the continuing proliferation and differentiation of the dissociated neuropoietic subventricular tissues. In this model, neuropoietic cells retain the ability to self-renew and form multipotent neurospheres, but progressively lose the ability to generate committed neuroblasts with continued culture. Neurogenesis in highly expanded NSCs can be rescued by coculture with microglial cells or microglia-conditioned medium, indicating that microglia provide secreted factor(s) essential for neurogenesis, but not NSC maintenance, self-renewal, or propagation. Our findings suggest an instructive role for microglial cells in contributing to postnatal neurogenesis in the largest neurogenic niche of the mammalian brain.
The recycling heparan sulfate (HS)-containing proteoglycan glypican-1 (Gpc-1) is processed by nitric oxide (NO)-catalyzed deaminative cleavage of its HS chains at N-unsubstituted glucosamines. This generates anhydromannose (anMan)-containing HS degradation products that can be detected by a specific antibody. Here we have attempted to identify the intracellular compartments where these products are formed. The anMan-positive degradation products generated constitutively in human bladder carcinoma cell line (T24) or fibroblasts appeared neither in caveolin-1-associated vesicles nor in lysosomes. In Niemann-Pick C-1 (NPC-1) fibroblasts, where deaminative degradation is abrogated, formation of anMan-positive products can be restored by ascorbate. These products colocalized with Rab7, a marker for late endosomes. When NO-catalyzed degradation of HS was depressed in mouse neuroblastoma cell line (N2a) by using 3-beta[2(diethylamino) ethoxy]androst-5-en-17-one (U18666A), both ascorbate and dehydroascorbic acid restored formation of anMan-positive products that colocalized with Rab7. In T24 cells, constitutively generated anMan-positive products colocalized with both Rab7 and Rab9, whereas Gpc-1 colocalized with Rab9, a marker for transporting endosomes. Inhibition of endosomal acidification, which blocks transfer from early (Rab5) to late (Rab7) endosomes, abrogated deaminative degradation of HS. This could also be overcome by the addition of ascorbate, which induced formation of anMan-positive degradation products that colocalized with Rab7. After (35)S-sulfate labeling, similar degradation products were recovered in Rab7-positive vesicles. We conclude that NO-catalyzed degradation of HS may begin in early endosomes but is mainly taking place in late endosomes.

The systematically varied firing features of spiral ganglion neurons provide an excellent model system for the exploration of how graded ion channel distributions can be used to organize neuronal firing across a population of neurons. Elucidating the underlying mechanisms that determine neuronal response properties requires a complete understanding of the combination of ion channels, auxiliary proteins, modulators, and second messengers that form this highly organized system in the auditory periphery. Toward this goal, we built upon previous studies of voltage-gated K+-selective ion channels (Kv), and expanded our analysis to K+-selective leak channels (KCNK), which can play a major role in setting the basic firing characteristics of spiral ganglion neurons. To begin a more comprehensive analysis of Kv and KCNK channels, a screening approach was employed. RT-PCR was utilized to examine gene expression, the major results of which were confirmed with immunocytochemistry. Initial studies validated this approach by accurately detecting voltage-dependent K+ channels that were documented previously in the spiral ganglion. Furthermore, an additional channel type within the Kv3 family, Kv3.3, was identified and further characterized. The major focus of the study, however, was to systematically examine gene expression levels of the KCNK family of K+-selective leak channels. These channel types determine the resting membrane potential which has a major impact on setting the level of neuronal excitation. TWIK-1, TASK-3, TASK-1, and TREK-1 were expressed in the spiral ganglion; TWIK-1 was specifically localized with immunocytochemistry to the neuronal somata and initial processes of spiral ganglion neurons in vitro.
A broad consensus within the neuroscience of tinnitus holds that this audiologic condition is triggered by central deafferentation, mostly due to cochlear damage. The absence of audiometrically detectable hearing loss however poses a challenge to this rather generalizing assumption. The aim of this study was therefore to scrutinize cochlear functioning in a sample of tinnitus subjects audiometrically matched to a normal hearing control group. Two tests were applied: the Threshold Equalizing Noise (TEN) test and a pitch scaling task. To perform well on both tasks relatively normal functioning of inner hair cells is a requirement. In the TEN test the tinnitus group revealed a circumscribed increment of thresholds partially overlapping with the tinnitus spectrum. Abnormal slopes were observed in the pitch scaling task which indicated that tinnitus subjects, when presented with a high-frequency stimulus, relied heavily on input derived from lower-frequency inner hair cells (off-frequency listening). In total both results argue for the presence of a deafferentation also in tinnitus subjects with audiometrically normal thresholds and therefore favour the deafferentation assumption posed by most neuroscientific theories.

It is difficult to imagine motor symptoms in psychiatry as different as hysteria and catatonia. The mechanism of hysteria is presumed to be psychogenic, while catatonia has always been considered to be among the most organic syndromes in psychiatry. Yet hysteria and catatonia have historically been regarded as allied conditions, an observation borne out by recent developments in neuroscience as well as by a growing awareness that the presentation of both conditions has changed over the years. In hysteria, the main shift has been from motor symptoms to sensory complaints such as chronic fatigue; in catatonia, the major change has been the virtual disappearance of negativistic or oppositional behaviour. It is possible that catatonia as well as hysteria may be responsive to changing cultural norms.
The procurement of new knowledge and understanding in the ever expanding discipline of cell biology continues to advance at a breakneck pace. The progress in discerning the physiology of cells and tissues in health and disease has been driven to a large extent by the continued development of new probes and imaging techniques. The recent introduction of semi-conductor quantum dots as stable, specific markers for both fluorescence light microscopy and electron microscopy, as well as a virtual treasure-trove of new fluorescent proteins, has in conjunction with newly introduced spectral imaging systems, opened vistas into the seemingly unlimited possibilities for experimental design. Although it oftentimes proves difficult to predict what the future will hold with respect to advances in disciplines such as cell biology and histochemistry, it is facile to look back on what has already occurred. In this spirit, this review will highlight some advancements made in these areas in the past 2 years.
Developmental plasticity of HPA and fear responses in rats has been proposed to be mediated by environment-dependent variation in active maternal care. Here, we review this maternal mediation hypothesis based on the postnatal manipulation literature and on our own recent research in rats. We show that developmental plasticity of HPA and fear responses in rats cannot be explained by a linear single-factor model based on environment-dependent variation in active maternal care. However, by adding environmental stress as a second factor to the model, we were able to explain the variation in HPA and fear responses induced by postnatal manipulations. In this two-factor model, active maternal care and environmental stress (as induced, e.g., by long maternal separations or maternal food restriction) exert independent, yet opposing, effects on HPA reactivity and fearfulness in the offspring. This accounts well for the finding that completely safe and stable, as well as, highly stressful maternal environments result in high HPA reactivity and fearfulness compared to moderately challenging maternal environments. Furthermore, it suggests that the downregulation of the HPA system in response to stressful maternal environments could reflect adaptive developmental plasticity based on the increasing costs of high stress reactivity with increasingly stressful conditions. By contrast, high levels of environmental stress induced by environmental adversity might constrain such adaptive plasticity, resulting in non-adaptive or even pathological outcomes. Alternatively, however, developmental plasticity of HPA and fear responses in rats might be a function of maternal HPA activation (e.g., levels of circulating maternal glucocorticoid hormones). Thus, implying a U-shaped relationship between maternal HPA activation and HPA reactivity and fearfulness in the offspring, increasing maternal HPA activation with increasing environmental adversity would explain the effects of postnatal manipulations equally well. This raises the possibility that variation in active maternal care is an epiphenomenon, rather than a causal factor in developmental plasticity of HPA and fear responses in rats. Developmental plasticity of HPA and fear responses in rats and other animals has important implications for the design of animal experiments and for the well-being of experimental animals, both of which depend on the exact underlying mechanism(s). Importantly, however, more naturalistic approaches are needed to elucidate the adaptive significance of environment-dependent variation of HPA reactivity and fearfulness in view of discriminating between effects reflecting adaptive plasticity, phenotypic mismatch and pathological outcomes, respectively.
The availability of tools for probing the genome and proteome more efficiently has allowed for the rapid discovery of novel genes and peptides that play important, previously uncharacterized roles in neuroendocrine regulation. In this review, the role of a class of neuropeptides containing the C-terminal Arg-Phe-NH(2) (RFamide) in regulating the reproductive axis will be highlighted. Neuropeptides containing the C-terminal Phe-Met-Arg-Phe-NH(2) (FMRFamide) were first identified as cardioregulatory elements in the bi-valve mollusk Macrocallista nimbosa. During the past two decades, numerous studies have shown the presence of structurally similar peptides sharing the RFamide motif across taxa. In vertebrates, RFamide peptides have pronounced influences on opiatergic regulation and neuroendocrine function. Two key peptides in this family are emerging as important regulators of the reproductive axis, kisspeptin and gonadotropin-inhibitory hormone (GnIH). Kisspeptin acts as the accelerator, directly driving gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH) neurons, whereas GnIH acts as the restraint. Recent evidence suggests that both peptides play a role in mediating the negative feedback effects of sex steroids. This review presents the hypothesis that these peptides share complementary roles by responding to internal and external stimuli with opposing actions to precisely regulate the reproductive axis.
It is still not known what underlies successful performance in goaltending. Some studies have reported that advanced cues from the shooter's body (hip, kicking leg or support leg) are most important (Savelsbergh, G. J. P., Williams, A. M., Van der Kamp, J., &amp; Ward, P. (2002). Visual search, anticipation and expertise in soccer goalkeepers. Journal of Sports Sciences, 20, 279-287; Savelsbergh, G. J. P., Williams, A. M., Van der Kamp, J., &amp; Ward, P. (2005). Anticipation and visual search behaviour in expert soccer goalkeepers. Ergonomics, 48, 1686-1697; Williams, A. M., &amp; Burwitz, L. (1993). Advanced cue utilization in soccer. In T. Reilly, J. Clarys, &amp; A. Stibbe (Eds.), Science and football II (pp. 239-243). London, England: E&amp;FN Spon), while others have found that the early tracking of the object prior to and during flight is most critical (Bard, C., &amp; Fleury, M. (1981). Considering eye movement as a predictor of attainment. In: I. M. Cockerill, &amp; W. M. MacGillvary (Eds.), Vision and Sport (pp. 28-41). Cheltenham, England: Stanley Thornes (Publishers) Ltd.). These results are similar to those found in a number of interceptive timing studies (Land, M. F., &amp; McLeod, P. (2000). From eye movements to actions: How batsmen hit the ball. Nature Neuroscience, 3, 1340-1345; Ripoll and Fleurance, 1988; Vickers, J. N., &amp; Adolphe, R. M. (1997). Gaze behaviour during a ball tracking and aiming skill. International Journal of Sports Vision, 4, 18-27). The coupled gaze and motor behavior of elite goaltenders were determined while responding to wrist shots taken from 5 m and 10 m on ice. The results showed that the goalies faced shots that were significantly different in phase durations due to distance (5 versus 10 m), but this was not a factor in making saves. Instead, the ability to stop the puck was dependent on the location, onset and duration of the final fixation/tracking gaze (or quiet eye) prior to initiating the saving action. The relative onset of quiet eye was significantly (p&lt;.001) earlier (8.6%) and the duration was longer on saves (M=80.5%; 952.3 ms) compared to goals (onset 18.86%; M=70.1%, 826.1 ms). The quiet eye was located on the puck/stick during the preparation and execution of the shot in 70.53% of all trials, or on the ice in front of the release point of the puck (25.68%) and rarely on the body of the shooter (2.1%). The results are discussed within the context of current research on goaltending with specific emphasis on the timing of critical cues and the effect of tasks constraints.
Individual pathologists deal with thousands of diagnostic biopsy and excision specimens annually. At each stage, procedures are in place to limit the possibility of human error, which could result in specimen transposition or contamination. One specimen contaminating another is usually easily identified and rarely causes diagnostic difficulty; however, when it does, the consequences can be very serious. We discuss 5 cases in which concerns over specimen identity and tissue contamination arose and the methodology by which we resolved those concerns. Polymerase chain reaction analysis of each case was carried out using a panel of 12 polymorphic microsatellite markers, specific for chromosomes 13, 18, and 21. These markers are routinely used in the molecular genetics diagnostic laboratory for rapid trisomy screening. In each case, the question of error was satisfactorily resolved. Using this approach, we prevented the real possibility of patients undergoing second invasive procedures. We suggest that this or a similar methodology become a routine part of pathology practice.
Estrogen (E2) acts in the brain to decrease blood pressure (BP) responses to psychological stress. A likely site for the effects of E2 is the hypothalamic paraventricular nucleus (PVN), an important regulator of autonomic functions. We studied the effects of E2 in the PVN on BP and heart rate (HR) responses to l-glutamate injections into the PVN of male urethane-anesthetized rats. Microinjections of l-glutamate (50 nmol) into the PVN increased BP by 14+/-2.5 mm Hg and HR by 30+/-5.6 bpm. Microinjections of E2 (0.1, 1, and 10 pmol) into the PVN 30 minutes before l-glutamate dose-dependently attenuated the pressor response by 25%, 34%, and 59%, respectively, but did not affect HR. We determined that E2 receptor (ER) beta mediates the effect of E2, because activation of ERbeta with diarylpropionitrile (50 pmol) attenuated the response by 57%, whereas activation of ERalpha with propyl-pyrazole-triol (20 pmol) had no effect. Furthermore, inhibition of ERbeta with R,R-tetrahydrochrysene (50 pmol) blocked the effect of E2, but inhibition of ERalpha with methyl-piperidino-pyrazole (1 nmol) did not. Finally, we found that the effect of E2 is mediated by NO, because the NO synthase (NOS) inhibitor, N(G)-nitro-l-arginine methyl ester (2 nmol), the neuronal NOS inhibitor, 7-nitroindazole sodium salt (0.1 pmol), and the endothelial NOS inhibitor, N5-(1-iminoethyl)-l-ornithine (200 pmol) blocked the effect of E2. The effect was partially blocked with the gamma-aminobutyric acid(A) receptor inhibitor bicuculline. Our results demonstrate that E2 in the PVN attenuates the l-glutamate-induced pressor response and that this effect is mediated by ERbeta, NO produced by neuronal NO synthase and eNOS, and partly by gamma-aminobutyric acid.





Recent neuroprosthetic work has focused on the motor cortex as a source of voluntary control signals. However, the motor cortex can be damaged in upper motor neuron degenerative diseases such as primary lateral sclerosis and amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. The possibility exists that prefrontal areas may also be used in neuroprosthetic devices. Here, we report the use of the cingulate cortex in a neuroprosthetic model. Seven rats were able to significantly modulate spiking activity in the cingulate cortex in order to receive reward. Furthermore, experiments with single neurons provide evidence that the cingulate cortex neuronal modulation is highly flexible and thus useful for a neuroprosthetic device.
Cell transplantation has been proposed to replace lost neurons in the diseased brain, and after injuries to the central nervous system (CNS). Strategies for cellular therapy in the CNS consist primarily in heterologous transplantations. Despite the CNS being an immunologically privileged site, immune rejection of intracerebral transplants remains a concern. In addition, the use of immunosuppressive drugs, like cyclosporine, is a major constraint associated with heterologous transplantations. Autologous transplantation is therefore viewed as the model of choice for cellular therapy. With the recent progress in somatic cell nuclear transfer (SCNT) research, and the confirmation that neurogenesis occurs in the adult brain and neural stem cells (NSCs) reside in the adult CNS, new opportunities for autologous transplantations are being considered for the CNS, and are promising.

Neuroblastoma is the most common extracranial solid tumor in children causing death at pre-school age, as no cure has yet been developed. We investigated the proteolytic mechanisms for apoptosis in human malignant (N-type) neuroblastoma SH-SY5Y cells following exposure to flavonoids such as apigenin (APG), (-)-epigallocatechin (EGC), (-)-epigallocatechin-3-gallate (EGCG) and genistein (GST). We found decrease in viability of SH-SY5Y cells with an increase in dose of APG, EGC, EGCG and GST. Predominantly apoptosis occurred following exposure of SH-SY5Y cells to 50 microM APG, 50 microM EGC, 50 microM EGCG and 100 microM GST for 24 hr. Apoptosis was associated with increases in intracellular free [Ca(2+)] and Bax:Bcl-2 ratio, mitochondrial release of cytochrome c and activation of caspase-9, calpain and caspase-3. Induction of apoptosis with APG and GST showed activation of caspase-12 as well. Activation of caspase-3 could cleave the inhibitor-of-caspase-activated DNase (ICAD) to release and translocate caspase-3-activated DNase (CAD) to the nucleus. Activation of caspase-8 cleaved Bid to truncated Bid (tBid) in cells treated with EGC and EGCG. EGC and EGCG induced apoptosis with caspase-8 activation and mitochondria-mediated pathway, whereas APG and GST caused apoptosis via an increase in intracellular free [Ca(2+)] with calpain activation and mitochondria-mediated pathway. Activation of different proteases for cell death was confirmed using caspase-8 inhibitor II, calpeptin (calpain inhibitor), caspase-9 inhibitor I and caspase-3 inhibitor IV. Thus, plant-derived flavonoids cause cell death with activation of proteolytic activities of calpain and caspases in SH-SY5Y cells, and therefore serve as potential therapeutic agents for controlling the growth of neuroblastoma.




After a restatement of the isolationism of psychoanalysis from allied disciplines, and an examination of some of the reasons for the diversity of schools of thought and the fragmentation of psychoanalytic knowledge, the author suggests the need to adopt principles of correspondence or external coherence along with those of hermeneutic coherence to validate psychoanalytic hypotheses. Recent developments in neurocognitive science have come to the aid of psychoanalysis in this period of crisis, resulting in the proposition of integrating both areas to form a new paradigm for the construction of the theory of the mind. This emerging paradigm tries to integrate clinical knowledge with neurocognitive science, findings from studies on the process and outcome of psychotherapy, research into the early mother-infant relationship, and developmental psychopathology. The author examines theoretical- technical models based on the concept of drives and of relationships in the light of interdisciplinary findings. He concludes that the relational model has a broad empirical base, except when the concept of drives is discredited. Interdisciplinary findings have led to the positing of the replacement of the Freudian model of drives with a model of motivational systems centred on affective processes. He draws certain conclusions which have a bearing on the technique of psychoanalytic treatment. These arise from the adoption of the new integrated paradigm.
Lobsters have numerous adaptive specializations of the olfactory system that make them especially suitable model organisms for the study of olfaction. Recent work using genomics and physiological genomics to study the lobster olfactory organ extends the advantages of their use further. A subtracted cDNA library from the mature zone of the olfactory organ and 3 physiological genomics experiments have helped identify numerous functionally interesting genes. These include specific markers of 3 cell types that previously could be discriminated only in anatomical sections, plus a marker of reactive epithelial cells at sites of cellular proliferation for both the normal ongoing replacement of olfactory tissue and the regeneration of damaged olfactory tissue. The approaches were instrumental in the discovery of a new exocrine gland, the aesthetasc tegumental gland, which is linked to grooming and the prevention of fouling of the olfactory aesthetasc setae. They also suggest a previously unknown endocrine or paracrine function performed by auxiliary cells of the olfactory aesthetasc sensory units. Other discoveries include candidates for gene products involved in olfactory transduction, presynaptic modulation of olfactory neuron axons by ionotropic receptors, and neuromodulation of both the olfactory sensory neurons and the interneurons in the olfactory lobe of the brain.
Unshelled cephalopods have a remarkable ability to alter their appearance, using textural, postural, and chromatic elements to generate a myriad of body patterns. Of the unshelled cephalopods, it is generally acknowledged that cuttlefish express the most detailed and widest range of body patterns, including static and dynamic patterns. In this paper we present data on the neuronal mechanisms underlying this amazing behavior, focusing on the neuroregulation of the chromatic elements, the chromatophore organs, in the European cuttlefish Sepia officinalis. Cephalopod chromatophore organs, including those in Sepia, are unlike those in any other animal taxa; each consists of a pigment-containing chromatophore cell that expands in response to the coordinated activation of a set of radial muscles which are directly attached to the chromatophore cell. We show that the chromatophore muscles are regulated by 2 different excitatory transmitters, glutamate and the family of FMRFamide-related peptides (FaRPs). Glutamate mediates rapid and transient chromatophore cell expansion whereas the FaRPs are responsible for slower, more sustained responses. Using retrograde dye filling, immunocytochemical and in situ hybridization techniques, we demonstrate that the cell bodies of the glutamatergic and FaRPs-containing motoneurons innervating the fin chromatophore muscles are primarily localized to the posterior chromatophore and fin lobes in the posterior subesophageal mass of the Sepia brain. Data are also presented showing that some fin chromatophore motoneurons have multiple axons in different nerve branches, which accounts for overlapping chromatophore motor fields by adjacent peripheral nerves.
The marine mollusc, Aplysia californica is a powerful experimental model in cellular and systems neuroscience. Aplysia neurons are large, colored, and located at the ganglionic surface. Because of this, many neurons can be easily identified in terms of their physiological properties, synaptic connections, and behavioral roles. Simple networks can be reconstructed in cell culture and have been widely useful for cellular and molecular biological studies of neuronal growth, synaptogenesis, and learning and memory mechanisms. Here, we show that Aplysia neurons can form truly gigantic growth cones reaching up to 630 m in diameter making them the largest growth cones ever reported in the animal kingdom. Second, using time-lapse video microscopy we have characterized the dynamics of neuronal outgrowth for 3 identified cell types (mechanosensory neurons, L7 motoneurons, and modulatory MCC neurons) representing 3 major functional classes of neurons. We show both cell-specific and neurite-specific growth characteristics and an irregular oscillatory rate of outgrowth ranging from 20 to 100 m/h. Third, we characterized the dynamics of axotomy-induced neurite outgrowth as well as extrasomatic localization of -tubulin mRNA in restricted regions of neuronal processes including growth cones and varicosities. The extrasomatically located mRNAs can be an important pool of neuronal transcripts supporting semiautonomous behavior of growth cones and localized synthesis of proteins in distinct and distant neuronal compartments. The reported data are compared with the existing literature from Lymnaea and Helisoma neurons as well as vertebrate preparations. Finally, our observations can provide an illustrated guide to complex behavior of neurons and glia in cell culture as well as their dependence upon various trophic factors and responses to neuronal injury.





Prenatal maternal stress has been shown to affect postnatal development in animals and humans. In animals, the morphology and function of the offspring's hippocampus is negatively affected by prenatal maternal stress. The present study prospectively investigated the influence of prenatal maternal stress on learning and memory of 112 children (50 boys, 62 girls, Age: M=6.7 years, SD=8.4 months), with the Test of Memory and Learning (TOMAL). Maternal stress levels were determined three times during pregnancy by self-report questionnaires. Furthermore, maternal saliva cortisol samples were used as a measure of hypothalamus-pituitary-adrenal axis functioning. Results of hierarchical multivariate regression analyses showed that maternal life events measured during the first part of pregnancy were negatively associated with the child's attention/concentration index, while controlling for overall IQ, gender, and postnatal stress. No associations were found between prenatal maternal cortisol and the offspring's learning and memory.
Patients with Alzheimer disease (AD) often exhibit psychiatric symptoms associated with cognitive impairment. The serotoninergic system may be involved in the development of depressive symptoms in AD patients, as suggested by the evidence that antidepressant drugs having the serotonin transporter as their target are effectively used to treat depressive AD patients. The aim of this study was to investigate the role of serotonin in depression, searching for association of two serotoninergic polymorphisms (T102C of serotonin receptor 5-HT2A and serotonin transporter linked polymorphic region -5-HTTLPR- of SLC6A4 gene) with depressive symptoms and considering their possible interactions with Apolipoprotein E (ApoE) and between themselves, in a sample of 208 sporadic AD patients and 116 normal controls from Italy. 5-HTTLPR and T102C are not associated with AD when separately analysed. However, we found out an interaction between the two polymorphisms in L/L and C/C genotype carriers increasing the risk for the disease (p=0.015, OR=8.048; 95% CI: 1.497-43.262). No association of the polymorphisms was detected with depression linked to AD. No interaction between 5-HTTLPR and T102C was detected in depressive AD subjects, even after stratification according to the presence of ApoE4 allele. These results suggest that the serotoninergic system may be not involved in the pathogenesis of depressive symptoms in AD patients, and it may be involved in other aspects of disease pathophysiology like cognitive symptoms and psychosis.
This paper reviews evidence supporting adaptive plasticity in muscle and cutaneous afferent reflex pathways induced by training and rehabilitative interventions. The perspective is advanced that the behavioral and functional relevance of any intervention and the reflex pathway under study should be considered when evaluating both adaptation and transfer. A cornerstone of this concept can be found in acute task-dependent reflex modulation. Because the nervous system allows the expression of a given reflex according to the motor task, an attempt to evaluate the training adaptation should also be evoked under the same conditions as training bearing in mind the functional role of the pathway under study. Within this framework, considerable evidence supports extensive adaptive plasticity in human muscle afferent pathways in the form of operant conditioning, strength training, skill training, and locomotor training or retraining. Directly comparable evidence for chronic adaptation in cutaneous reflex pathways is lacking. However, activity-dependent plasticity in cutaneous pathways is documented particularly in approaches to neurological rehabilitation. Overall, the adaptive range for human muscle afferent reflexes appears bidirectional (that is, increased or reduced amplitudes) and on the order of 25-50%. The adaptive range for cutaneous pathways is currently uncertain.
Gentamicin is well known to promote hair cell death in inner ear, but it also appears to activate opposing pathways that promote hair cell survival. In combination with others, our previous work has indicated that a K-Ras/Rac/JNK pathway is important for hair cell death and an H-Ras/Raf/MEK/Erk pathway is involved in promoting hair cell survival (Battaglia et al., Neuroscience 122(4):1025-1035, 2003). However, these data also suggested that a Ras-independent survival pathway for activation of MEK might be stimulated by gentamicin. To investigate alternatives to the Ras/Raf/MEK/Erk pathway in promoting hair cell survival, cochlear explants were exposed to gentamicin combined with several inhibitors of alternative pathways (LY294002, calphostin C, SH-6, U73122). When exposed to gentamicin with the PI3K inhibitor LY294002 (10, 50 microM), the protein kinase C (PKC) inhibitor calphostin C (50, 100 nM) or the PKB/Akt inhibitor SH-6 (5, 10 microM), hair cell damage was significantly increased compared to gentamicin alone. By Western blotting, strong PKB/Akt activation was observed in the organ of Corti following exposure to 50 microM gentamicin for 6 h. In addition, PKC activation by 12-O-tetradecanoylphorbol-13-acetate protected outer hair cells from gentamicin induced cell death. In contrast, the phospholipase C-gamma (PLCgamma) inhibitor U73122 (2, 5 microM) did not affect hair cell damage when combined with gentamicin. Also, phosphorylation of PLCgamma was not increased in the organ of Corti following gentamicin treatment, as evaluated by Western blot. The results indicate that PI3K promotes hair cell survival via its downstream targets, PKC and PKB/Akt. This suggests that both Ras-dependent and Ras-independent survival pathways are involved during gentamicin exposure. In contrast, PLCgamma activation of PKC does not appear to play a role.
The TRIM5alpha (tripartite motif 5alpha protein) has been linked to the cross-species restriction in human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1) infection of non-human cells, but the mechanism by which this occurs remains to be fully elucidated. Here we demonstrate that the capsid (CA) protein of HIV-1 is more rapidly degraded in cells expressing monkey TRIM5alpha than in cells expressing human TRIM5alpha. Other proteins encoded by Gag and Pol are not subject to TRIM5alpha-mediated accelerated degradation. The accelerated CA degradation by TRIM5alpha apparently occurs via a nonproteosomal pathway. TRIM5alpha selectively accelerates degradation of the CA population, which reached the cytosol of restrictive cells, but not the CA population, which ended into the vesicular compartment. Given that cytosolic CA represents &quot;productively&quot; entered cores, whereas vesicular CA represents &quot;nonproductively&quot; entered cores, our findings suggest that TRIM5alpha interrupts the infectious pathway of HIV-1 by acting on the incoming cytosolic CA. The mode of viral entry does not influence the accelerated degradation of cytosolic CA by TRIM5alpha. Thus, this study reveals a correlation between TRIM5alpha-mediated HIV-1 restriction and a selective degradation of cytosolic CA normally associated with productive viral entry.
A major pathological hallmark of the polyglutamine diseases is the formation of neuronal intranuclear inclusions of the disease proteins that are ubiquitinated and often associated with various transcription factors, chaperones, and proteasome components. However, how the expanded polyglutamine proteins or their aggregates elicit complex pathogenic responses in the neuronal cells is not fully understood. Here, we have demonstrated that the expression of expanded polyglutamine proteins down-regulated the NFkappaB-dependent transcriptional activity. The expression of expanded polyglutamine proteins increased the stability and the levels of IkappaB-alpha and its phosphorylated derivatives. We have also found that various NFkappaB subunits and IkappaB-alpha aberrantly interacted with the expanded polyglutamine proteins and associated with their aggregates. Finally, we have shown that several NFkappaB-dependent genes are down-regulated in the expanded polyglutamine protein-expressing cells and down-regulation of NFkappaB activity enhances expanded polyglutamine protein-induced cell death. Because the NFkappaB pathway plays a very important role in cell survival, altered regulation of this pathway in expanded polyglutamine protein-expressing cells might be linked with the disease pathogenesis.
Aggregated and highly phosphorylated tau protein is a pathological hallmark of Alzheimer's disease (AD) and other tauopathies. We identified motifs of alternating polar and apolar amino acids within the microtubule-binding repeats of tau which were interrupted by small breaking stretches. Minimal mutation of these breaking sequences yielded a unique instantly aggregating tau mutant containing longer stretches of polar/apolar amino acids without losing its microtubule-binding capacity. These modifications produced rapid aggregation and cytotoxicity with accompanying occurrence of pathologic tau phosphoepitopes (AT8, AT180, AT270, AT100, Ser(422), and PHF-1) and conformational epitopes (MC-1 and Alz50) in cells. Similar to pathological tau in the pretangle state, toxicity appeared to occur early without the requirement for extensive fibril formation. Thus, our mutant protein provides a novel platform for the investigation of the molecular mechanisms for toxicity and cellular behavior of pathologically aggregated tau proteins and the identification of its interaction partners.
The circadian clock in the suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN) is composed of thousands of oscillator neurons, each dependent on the cell-autonomous action of a defined set of circadian clock genes. Still, the major question remains how these individual oscillators are organized into a biological clock producing a coherent output able to time all the different daily changes in behavior and physiology. In the present review, the authors discuss the anatomical connections and neurotransmitters used by the SCN to control the daily rhythms in hormone release. The efferent SCN projections mainly target neurons in the medial hypothalamus surrounding the SCN. The activity of these preautonomic and neuroendocrine target neurons is controlled by differentially timed waves of, among others, vasopressin, GABA, and glutamate release from SCN terminals. Together, the data on the SCN control of neuroendocrine rhythms provide clear evidence not only that the SCN consists of phenotypically (i.e., according to neurotransmitter content) different subpopulations of neurons but also that subpopulations should be distinguished (within phenotypically similar groups of neurons) based on the acrophase of their (electrical) activity. Moreover, the specialization of the SCN may go as far as a single body structure, that is, the SCN seems to contain neurons that specifically target the liver, pineal, and adrenal.
Models of decision-making usually focus on cognitive, situational, and socio-cultural variables in accounting for human performance. However, the emotional component is rarely addressed within these models. This paper reviews evidence for the emotional aspect of decision-making and its role within a new framework of investigation, called neuroeconomics. The new approach aims to build a comprehensive theory of decision-making, through the unification of theories and methods from economics, psychology, and neuroscience. In this paper, we review these integrative research methods and their applications to issues of public health, with illustrative examples from our research on young adults' safe sex practices. This approach promises to be valuable as a comprehensively descriptive and possibly, better predictive model for construction and customization of decision support tools for health professionals and consumers.
The largest isoform of the Shc adapter protein, p66Shc, has been implicated in oxidative damage-induced apoptosis in vital organs, because mice deficient in p66Shc have a 30% increase in life span and are resistant to the lethal effects of systemically administered paraquat, a source of severe oxidative damage. In this study, we utilized siRNA directed against the CH2 domain of Shc, to reduce p66Shc, but not p52Shc nor p46Shc in retinal pigmented epithelial (RPE) cells. RPE cells deficient in p66Shc had reduced susceptibility to oxidative stress-induced apoptosis. Compared to control cells, those with reduced p66Shc had increased basal and oxidative stress-induced NF-kappaB transcriptional activity, increased levels of antioxidant enzymes, and less generation of reactive oxygen species when challenged with H(2)O(2). The increase in oxidative stress-induced NF-kappaB activity was mediated by activation of ERK. Compared to eyes injected with GFP siRNA, those injected with p66Shc siRNA showed less loss of retinal function as assessed by electroretinograms from paraquat-induced oxidative stress. These data suggest that p66Shc and molecular signals involved in its regulation provide therapeutic targets for retinal degenerations in which oxidative-damage plays a major role, including age-related macular degeneration and cone cell death in retinitis pigmentosa.
The extracellular signal-regulated protein kinase ERK1/2 is a crucial effector linking extracellular stimuli to cellular responses: upon phosphorylation ERK [also known as mitogen-activated protein kinase P42/P44 (MAPK)] concentrates in the nucleus where it activates specific programs of gene expression. Notwithstanding the importance of this process, little is known about the modalities, time course and regulation of ERK exchange between nucleus and cytoplasm in living cells. We visualized the dynamic of nuclear translocation by expressing low levels (&lt;150 nM) of fluorescently tagged ERK2 in living fibroblasts. Time-lapse imaging demonstrated that nuclear concentration can change bidirectionally with a time constant of a few minutes. The increase of nuclear concentration requires continuous MEK (also known as MAPK kinase) activity upstream of ERK and is rapidly reduced by the operation of phosphatases. We measured quantitatively the speed of ERK2 shuttling between nucleus and cytoplasm and determined that shuttling accelerated after ERK activation, becoming fast enough not to be rate-limiting for translocation. Finally, we demonstrated that ERK2 did not diffuse freely in the nucleus and that diffusion was further impeded after phosphorylation, suggesting the formation of complexes of low mobility. These results show that nucleocytoplasmic trafficking of ERK2 and its mobility are dynamically regulated in living cells.
The biological mechanisms underlying the mental retardation associated with mutation of the ARHGEF6 gene, a Rac1/Cdc42 exchange factor, are still unknown, although defects in the plasticity of synaptic networks have been postulated. We have cloned the rat ARHGEF6 gene and investigated, using a transfection approach, its involvement in spine morphogenesis and its relationship to p21-activated kinase 3 (PAK3). We found that expression of tagged ARHGEF6 in hippocampal slice cultures shows a punctate staining in dendritic spines that colocalizes with PSD95. Over-expression of ARHGEF6, of PAK3 or constitutively active PAK3 did not alter spine morphology. By contrast, knockdown of ARHGEF6 using a siRNA approach resulted in abnormalities in spine morphology similar to those reported with knockdown of PAK3. This phenotype could be rescued through co-expression of a constitutively active PAK3 protein, but not with wild-type PAK3. Together, these results indicate that ARHGEF6 is localized in dendritic spines where it contributes to regulate spine morphogenesis probably by acting through a downstream activation of PAK3. Similar mechanisms are thus likely to underlie the mental retardation induced by mutations of ARHGEF6 and PAK3.
Disturbances in GABAergic and glutamatergic neurotransmission in the thalamocortical loop are involved in absence seizures. Here, we examined potential disturbances in metabolism and interactions between neurons and glia in 5-month-old genetic absence epilepsy rats from Strasbourg (GAERS) and nonepileptic rats (NER). Animals received [1-(13)C]glucose and [1,2-(13)C]acetate, the preferential substrates of neurons and astrocytes, respectively. Extracts from cerebral cortex, thalamus, and hippocampus were analyzed by (13)C nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy. Most changes were detected in the cortex. Pyruvate metabolism was enhanced as evidenced by increases of lactate, and labeled and unlabeled alanine. Neuronal mitochondrial metabolism was also enhanced as detected by elevated amounts of N-acetylaspartate and nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide as well as increased incorporation of label from [2-(13)C]acetyl CoA into glutamate, glutamine, and aspartate. Likewise, mitochondrial metabolism in astrocytes was increased. Changes in thalamus were restricted to increased concentration and labeling of glutamine. Changes in the hippocampus were similar to those in the cortex. This increase in glutamate-glutamine metabolism in cortical neurons and astrocytes accompanied by a decreased gamma aminobyturic acid level may lead to impaired thalamic filter function. Hence, reduced sensory input to cortex could allow the occurrence of spike-and-wave discharges in the thalamocortical loop. Increased glutamatergic output from the cortex to hippocampus may be the underlying cause of improved learning in GAERS.
Recent studies have revealed that the phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (PI3-K) pathway is involved in apoptotic cell death after experimental cerebral ischemia. The serine-threonine kinase, Akt, functions in the PI3-K pathway and prevents apoptosis by phosphorylation at Ser473 after a variety of cell death stimuli. After phosphorylation, activated Akt inactivates other apoptogenic factors, including glycogen synthase kinase-3beta (GSK3beta), thereby inhibiting cell death. However, the role of Akt/GSK3beta signaling in the delayed death of hippocampal neurons in the CA1 subregion after transient global cerebral ischemia (tGCI) has not been clarified. Transient global cerebral ischemia for 5 mins was induced by bilateral common carotid artery occlusion combined with hypotension. Western blot analysis showed a significant increase in phospho-Akt (Ser473) and phospho-GSK3beta (Ser9) in the hippocampal CA1 subregion after tGCI. Immunohistochemistry showed that expression of phospho-Akt (Ser473) and phospho-GSK3beta (Ser9) was markedly increased in the vulnerable CA1 subregion, but not in the ischemic-tolerant CA3 subregion. Double staining with phospho-GSK3beta (Ser9) and terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase-mediated uridine 5'-triphosphate-biotin nick end labeling showed different cellular distributions in the CA1 subregion 3 days after tGCI. Phosphorylation of Akt and GSK3beta was prevented by LY294002, a PI3-K inhibitor, which facilitated subsequent DNA fragmentation 3 days after tGCI. Moreover, transgenic rats that overexpress copper/zinc-superoxide dismutase, which is known to be neuroprotective against delayed hippocampal CA1 injury after tGCI, had enhanced and persistent phosphorylation of both Akt and GSK3beta after tGCI. These findings suggest that activation of the Akt/GSK3beta signaling pathway may mediate survival of vulnerable hippocampal CA1 neurons after tGCI.
Hibernation is a natural model of neuroprotection and adult synaptic plasticity. NMDA receptors (NMDAR), which play key roles in excitotoxicity and synaptic plasticity, have not been characterized in a hibernating species. Tolerance to excitotoxicity and cognitive enhancement in Arctic ground squirrels (AGS, Spermophilus parryii) suggests that NMDAR expression may decrease in hibernation and increase upon arousal. NMDAR consist of at least one NMDAR1 (NR1) subunit, which is required for receptor function. Localization of NR1 reflects localization of the majority, if not all, NMDAR complexes. The purpose of this study, therefore, was to characterize the distribution of NR1 subunits in AGS central nervous system using immunohistochemistry. In addition, we compare NR1 expression in hippocampus of hibernating AGS (hAGS) and inter-bout euthermic AGS (ibeAGS) and assess changes in cell somata size using NR1 stained sections in three hippocampal sub-regions (CA1, CA3, and dentate gyrus). For the first time, we report that immunoreactivity of anti-NR1 is widely distributed throughout the central nervous system in AGS and is similar to other species. No differences exist in the expression and distribution of NR1 in hAGS and ibeAGS. However, we report a significant decrease in size of hippocampal CA1 and dentate gyrus NR1-expressing neuronal somata during hibernation torpor.
Nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (nAChRs) are pentameric ligand-gated cation channels composed of alpha and beta subunits. nAChR subunit expression is highly regulated during development. Previous studies have revealed increased expression of alpha3, alpha5, alpha7, and beta4 subunit mRNAs and alpha7 binding sites during hippocampal and cortical development. Here, we examined the expression of alpha2 subunit mRNA in rat cortex and hippocampus using highly sensitive radioactive in situ hybridization. alpha2 Subunit mRNA expression was first detected at P3 in cortex and hippocampus. During postnatal development the distribution of alpha2 subunit mRNA expression was spatially similar to the one found in adult, exhibiting highly restricted expression in scattered cells mostly in cortical layer V and retrosplenial cortex, and in scattered cells in CA1/CA3 stratum oriens and CA3 stratum radiatum. However, the expression intensity and number of alpha2 positive cells strongly increased to reach peak levels in both cortex and hippocampus at P7 and decreased thereafter to moderate to low to levels. Double in situ hybridization revealed that most, but not all, alpha2 mRNA expression was located in non-pyramidal GAD-positive cortical and hippocampal interneurons. Thus, similar to other nAChR subunits, alpha2 mRNA expression is transiently upregulated during postnatal development and nAChRs containing alpha2 subunits could regulate GABAergic activity during a critical period of network formation.
Bag 1 is a protein intimately involved in signaling pathways that regulate cell survival. Here we examined the expression profile of Bag 1 in the brain to consider issues associated with the sampling of anti-apoptotic proteins in a rat model of the human postmortem process. Following a 4h postmortem interval, we analyzed the hippocampus of rats maintained at 24 or 4 degrees C storage temperatures using immunocytochemical and Western blotting techniques. Remarkably, postmortem tissue (up to 4h) showed a significant and prominent up-regulation of Bag 1 in CA1 and CA3 subfields of the hippocampal formation. Over-expression of Bag 1, however, could only be traced down to a storage temperature of 24 degrees C. These data suggest that storage temperatures, but not postmortem intervals, significantly affect the expression profile and cellular stability of Bag 1 proteins.
The potent Parkinsonian neurotoxin 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine is known to destroy dopaminergic neurons of the basal ganglia. Its neurotoxically active metabolite, 1-methyl-4-phenyl pyridinium (MPP(+)), has been examined in the present study to verify whether administration of the neurotoxin that depletes about 70% of the striatal dopamine (DA) can cause damage to nuclear components of the cells at the terminal region, the striatum. Unilateral intrastriatal infusion of MPP(+) (100 and 200 nmol in 4 microl saline) caused a dose-dependent depletion of striatal DA (69 and 92%, respectively), as measured employing HPLC electrochemistry. It also resulted in the loss of tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) immunoreactivity in the striatum and in the perikarya at substantia nigra pars compacta (SNpc) and acetylcholinesterase histoenzymological staining in the striatum. Specific nuclear staining employing Hoechst 33342 and acridine orange revealed distorted and spindle shaped nuclei, and perinuclear positioning of nucleolus, respectively, for the former and latter dyes in several of the cell populations in the ipsilateral striatum compared to the contralateral side. Existence of a widened lateral ventricle at the side that received the neurotoxin, as well as denser cellular population, as compared to the contralateral side under transmission electron microscope evidenced general shrinkage of the striatum. Extensive damage of the nuclei was visible in the cell bodies in the treated side. These results demonstrate non-specific damage extending to the cellular groups including cholinergic neurons in addition to dopaminergic neurons in the striatum to intrastriatal administration of the Parkinsonian neurotoxin, MPP(+).
Previous research has shown orexin/hypocretin immunoreactive (orexin-ir) neurons in domesticated Galliformes. However, these findings may not be representative of other birds and these studies did not include a distribution of orexin-ir projections throughout the brain. The present study was carried out in a wild-caught passerine, the house finch, Carpodacus mexicanus, and includes a detailed description of orexin-ir neurons and their projections. Orexin A and B-ir neurons were located in a single population centered on the paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus extending into the lateral hypothalamic area, consistent with other studies in birds. Orexin A and B-ir fibers were similarly visible across the brain, with the highest density within the preoptic area, hypothalamus and thalamus. Orexin-ir projections extended from the paraventricular nucleus rostrally to the preoptic area, laterally towards the medial striatum, nidopallium, and dorsally along the lateral ventricle towards the mesopallium. Caudally, the highest densities of orexin-ir fibers were found along the third ventricle. The periaqueductal grey, substantia nigra pars compacta and the locus coeruleus also showed a high density of orexin-ir fibers. This study showed a detailed fiber distribution previously unreported in birds and showed that orexin-ir neurons were located in similar areas regardless of phylogeny or domestication in birds. The apparently conserved neural distribution of orexins suggests that these peptides play similar roles among birds. The widespread distribution of the projections in brain areas serving various roles indicates the potential involvement of these peptides in multiple behavioral and physiological functions.

Primary motor cortex (M1), a key region for voluntary motor control, has been considered a first choice as the source of neural signals to control prosthetic devices for humans with paralysis. Less is known about the potential for other areas of frontal cortex as prosthesis signal sources. The frontal cortex is widely engaged in voluntary behavior. Single-neuron recordings in monkey frontal cortex beyond M1 have readily identified activity related to planning and initiating movement direction, remembering movement instructions over delays, or mixtures of these features. Human functional imaging and lesion studies also support this role. Intraoperative mapping during deep brain stimulator placement in humans provides a unique opportunity to evaluate potential prosthesis control signals derived from nonprimary areas and to expand our understanding of frontal lobe function and its role in movement disorders. This study shows that recordings from small groups of human prefrontal/premotor cortex neurons can provide information about movement planning, production, and decision-making sufficient to decode the planned direction of movement. Thus, additional frontal areas, beyond M1, may be valuable signal sources for human neuromotor prostheses.
It is generally accepted that median sensory nerve conduction studies are more sensitive than motor nerve conduction studies in the electrodiagnostic evidence of carpal tunnel syndrome (CTS). This study was conducted to compare the sensitivities of various parameters of sensory nerve conduction studies in the diagnosis of CTS. This prospective study included 88 consecutive patients (151 hands) with CTS and 106 control subjects. CTS was diagnosed clinically by two neurologists. Median sensory nerve responses with wrist stimulation were determined. The onset and peak latencies, peak-to-peak amplitudes, negative peak duration, and area were measured. The differences between the peak and onset latencies were also calculated as a measure of waveform temporal dispersion. Among each measured parameter, values between the 2.5th and the 97.5th percentile range of the control subjects served as the normal limits. Among the 151 hands with suspected CTS, five (3.3%) had normal electrodiagnostic studies and 146 (96.7%) had at least one abnormal electrodiagnostic study. Among the 146 hands with an abnormality, 138 had abnormal onset latency, 143 had abnormal peak latency, and 88 had abnormal difference between peak and onset latency. In addition, 87 had abnormal amplitude, 70 had abnormal duration, and 59 had abnormal area. The sensitivity was 91.4% for onset latency, 94.7% for peak latency, 58.3% for difference between peak and onset latency, 57.6% for amplitude, 46.4% for duration, and 39.1% for area. Our study shows that in patients with CTS, the most sensitive sensory nerve conduction parameter is the peak latency. Studying various additional sensory nerve conduction parameters did not significantly increase the diagnostic yield.
People often remain &quot;blind&quot; to visual changes occurring during a brief interruption of the display. The processing stages responsible for such failure remain unresolved. We used event-related potentials to determine the time course of brain activity during conscious change detection versus change blindness. Participants saw two successive visual displays, each with two faces, and reported whether one of the faces changed between the first and second displays. Relative to blindness, change detection was associated with a distinct pattern of neural activity at several successive processing stages, including an enhanced occipital P1 response and a sustained frontal activity (CNV-like potential) after the first display, before the change itself. The amplitude of the N170 and P3 responses after the second visual display were also modulated by awareness of the face change. Furthermore, a unique topography of event-related potential activity was observed during correct change and correct no-change reports, but not during blindness, with a recurrent time course in the stimulus sequence and simultaneous sources in the parietal and temporo-occipital cortex. These results indicate that awareness of visual changes may depend on the attentional state subserved by coordinated neural activity in a distributed network, before the onset of the change itself.
According to the Oxford English Dictionary, intuition is &quot;the ability to understand or know something immediately, without conscious reasoning.&quot; Most people would agree that intuitive responses appear as ideas or feelings that subsequently guide our thoughts and behaviors. It is proposed that people continuously, without conscious attention, recognize patterns in the stream of sensations that impinge upon them. What exactly is being recognized is not clear yet, but we assume that people detect potential content based on only a few aspects of the input (i.e., the gist). The result is a vague perception of coherence which is not explicitly describable but instead embodied in a &quot;gut feeling&quot; or an initial guess, which subsequently biases thought and inquiry. To approach the nature of intuitive processes, we used functional magnetic resonance imaging when participants were working at a modified version of the Waterloo Gestalt Closure Task. Starting from our conceptualization that intuition involves an informed judgment in the context of discovery, we expected activation within the median orbito-frontal cortex (OFC), as this area receives input from all sensory modalities and has been shown to be crucially involved in emotionally driven decisions. Results from a direct contrast between intuitive and nonintuitive judgments, as well as from a parametric analysis, revealed the median OFC, the lateral portion of the amygdala, anterior insula, and ventral occipito-temporal regions to be activated. Based on these findings, we suggest our definition of intuition to be promising and a good starting point for future research on intuitive processes.
Various lines of evidence suggest that the striatum is implicated in cognitive flexibility. The neuropsychological evidence has, for the most part, been based on research with patients with Parkinson's disease, which is accompanied by chemical disruption of both the striatum and the prefrontal cortex. The present study examined this issue by testing patients with focal lesions of the striatum on a task measuring two forms of cognitive switching. Patients with striatal, but not frontal lobe lesions, were impaired in switching between concrete sensory stimuli. By contrast, both patient groups were unimpaired when switching between abstract task rules relative to baseline nonswitch trials. These results reveal a dissociation between two distinct forms of cognitive flexibility, providing converging evidence for a role of the striatum in flexible control functions associated with the selection of behaviorally relevant stimuli.
We performed in situ hybridization histochemistry on the monkey basal ganglia to investigate the mRNA localization of three protein kinase C substrates (GAP-43, MARCKS, and neurogranin), of which expression plays a role in structural changes in neurites and synapses. Weak hybridization signals for GAP-43 mRNA and intense signals for both MARCKS and neurogranin mRNAs were observed in the adult neostriatum. All three of the mRNAs were expressed in both substance P-positive direct pathway neurons and enkephalin-positive indirect pathway neurons. In the nucleus accumbens, the hybridization signals for the three mRNAs were weaker than those in the neostriatum. Double-label in situ hybridization histochemistry in the neostriatum revealed that GAP-43 and neurogranin mRNAs were expressed in a subset of MARCKS-positive neurons. While intense hybridization signals for MARCKS mRNA were observed in all of the other basal ganglia regions such as the globus pallidus, substantia innominata, subthalamic nucleus, and substantia nigra, intense signals for GAP-43 mRNA were restricted to the substantia innominata and substantia nigra pars compacta. No signal for neurogranin mRNA was observed in the basal ganglia regions outside the neostriatum and the nucleus accumbens. These results indicate that the protein kinase C substrates are abundant in some specific connections in cortico-basal ganglia circuits. Developmental analysis showed that the expression level in the putamen and nucleus accumbens, but not in the caudate nucleus, was higher in the infant than in the adult, suggesting that synaptic maturation in the caudate nucleus occurs earlier than that in the putamen and nucleus accumbens.
Bone morphogenetic protein-4 (BMP4) is a member of the transforming growth factor-beta (TGF-beta) superfamily and plays important roles in multiple biological events. Although BMP4 expression has been well described in the early development of the central nervous system (CNS), little information is available on its expression in the adult CNS. Therefore, we investigated BMP4 expression in the adult rat CNS by using immunohistochemistry. BMP4 is intensely expressed in most neurons and their dendrites. In addition, intense BMP4 expression was also observed in the neuropil of the gray matters where high plasticity is reported, such as the molecular layer of the cerebellum and the superficial layer of the superior colliculus. Furthermore, we found that astrocytes also express BMP4 protein. These data indicate that BMP4 is more widely expressed throughout the adult CNS than previously reported, and its continued abundant expression in the adult brain strongly supports the idea that BMP4 plays pivotal roles also in the adult brain.
To initiate a comprehensive investigation of chemosensory signal transduction downstream of odorant receptors, we identified and characterized the complete set of genes that encode G-protein alpha subunits in the genome of the malaria vector mosquito An. gambiae. Data are provided on the tissue-specific expression patterns of 10 corresponding aga-transcripts in adult mosquitoes and pre-imago developmental stages. Specific immunoreactivity in chemosensory hairs of female antennae provides evidence in support of the participation of a subset of AGalphaq isoforms in olfactory signal transduction in this mosquito. In contrast, AGalphao is localized along the flagellar axon bundle but is absent from chemosensory sensilla, which suggests that this G-protein alpha subunit does not participate in olfactory signal transduction.
The American lobster is a poikilotherm that inhabits a marine environment where temperature varies over a 25 degrees C range and depends on the winds, the tides and the seasons. To determine how cardiac performance depends on the water temperature to which the lobsters are acclimated we measured lobster heart rates in vivo. The upper limit for cardiac function in lobsters acclimated to 20 degrees C is approximately 29 degrees C, 5 degrees C warmer than that measured in lobsters acclimated to 4 degrees C. Warm acclimation also slows the lobster heart rate within the temperature range from 4 to 12 degrees C. Both effects are apparent after relatively short periods of warm acclimation (3-14 days). However, warm acclimation impairs cardiac function at cold temperatures: following several hours exposure to frigid (&lt;5 degrees C) temperatures heart rates become slow and arrhythmic in warm acclimated, but not cold acclimated, lobsters. Thus, acclimation temperature determines the thermal limits for cardiac function at both extremes of the 25 degrees C temperature range lobsters inhabit in the wild. These observations suggest that regulation of cardiac thermal tolerance by the prevailing environmental temperature protects against the possibility of cardiac failure due to thermal stress.
The densities of middle ear ossicles of golden moles (family Chrysochloridae, order Afrosoricida) were measured using the buoyancy method. The internal structure of the malleus was examined by high-resolution computed tomography, and solid-state NMR was used to determine relative phosphorus content. The malleus density of the desert golden mole Eremitalpa granti (2.44 g/cm3) was found to be higher than that reported in the literature for any other terrestrial mammal, whereas the ossicles of other golden mole species are not unusually dense. The increased density in Eremitalpa mallei is apparently related both to a relative paucity of internal vascularization and to a high level of mineralization. This high density is expected to augment inertial bone conduction, used for the detection of seismic vibrations, while limiting the skull modifications needed to accommodate the disproportionately large malleus. The mallei of the two subspecies of E. granti, E. g. granti and E. g. namibensis, were found to differ considerably from one another in both size and shape.
Gonadotropin-releasing hormone receptors (GnRHRs) are expressed in gonadotropes and several extra-pituitary sites. They are assumed to be cell surface proteins but the human (h) GnRHR lacks features favoring plasma membrane localization and receptor location varies with cell type. When expressed in mammary (MCF7) cells, cell surface hGnRHR binding was much lower than that of mouse and sheep GnRHRs (type I GnRHRs without C-terminal tails), Xenopus (X) and marmoset type II GnRHRs (type II GnRHRs with C-tails) or chimeric receptors (type I GnRHRs with added XGnRHR C-tails). hGnRHR binding was higher in alphaT4 (gonadotrope-derived) cells and was increased less by C-tail addition. Whole cell levels of tagged human, Xenopus and chimeric GnRHRs were comparable (Western blotting) and confocal microscopy revealed that the hGnRHR is primarily intracellular (distribution similar to the endoplasmic reticulum marker, calreticulin), whereas most XGnRHR is at the plasma membrane, and adding the C-tail increased cell surface hGnRHR levels. A membrane-permeant antagonist increased cell surface hGnRHR number (&gt;4-fold, t1/2 = 4 h) and also increased hGnRHR signaling and hGnRHR-mediated inhibition of proliferation. A more rapid increase in hGnRHR binding occurred when the temperature was raised from 4 to 37 degrees C (&gt;5-fold, t1/2 = 15 min) and this effect was prevented by mutation to prevent signaling. Thus, cell surface GnRHR expression depends on receptor and cell type and the hGnRHR is primarily an intracellular protein that traffics to the cell surface for signaling in MCF7 cells. Manipulations favoring such trafficking may facilitate selective targeting of extra-pituitary GnRHRs.
In signal transduction of metazoan cells, ion channels of the family of transient receptor potential (TRP) have been identified to respond to diverse external and internal stimuli, amongst them osmotic stimuli. This review will highlight findings on the TRPV subfamily, both vertebrate and invertebrate members. Out of the six mammalian TRP vanilloid (TRPV) channels, TRPV1, TRPV2, and TRPV4 were demonstrated to function in transduction of osmotic stimuli. TRPV channels have been found to function in cellular as well as systemic osmotic homeostasis in vertebrates. Invertebrate TRPV channels, five in Caenorhabditis elegans and two in Drosophila, have been shown to play a role in mechanosensation, such as hearing and proprioception in Drosophila and nose touch in C. elegans, and in the response to osmotic stimuli in C. elegans. In a striking example of evolutionary conservation of function, mammalian TRPV4 has been found to rescue osmo- and mechanosensory deficits of the TRPV mutant strain osm-9 in C. elegans, despite not more than 26% orthology of the respective proteins.
Most anurans are highly vocal but their vocalizations are stereotyped and simple with limited repertoire sizes compared with other vocal vertebrates, presumably because of the limited mechanisms for fine vocal motor control. We recently reported that the call of the concaveeared torrent frog (Amolops tormotus Fei) is an exception in its seemingly endless variety, musical warbling quality, extension of call frequency into the ultrasonic range and the prominence of subharmonics, chaos and other nonlinear features. We now show that the major spectral features of its calls, responsible for this frog's vocal diversity, can be generated by forcing pressurized air through the larynx of euthanized males. Laryngeal specializations for ultrasound appear to include very thin portions of the medial vocal ligaments and reverse sexual size dimorphism of the larynx--being smaller in males than in females. The intricate morphology of the vocal cords, which changes along their length, suggests that nonlinear phenomena probably arise from complex nonlinear oscillatory regimes of separate elastically coupled masses. Amolops is thus the first amphibian for which the intrinsic nonlinear dynamics of its larynx--a relatively simple and expedient mechanism--can account for the species' call complexity, without invoking sophisticated neuromuscular control.
The calling song of an undescribed Meconematinae katydid (Tettigoniidae) from South America consists of trains of short, separated pure-tone sound pulses at 129 kHz (the highest calling note produced by an Arthropod). Paradoxically, these extremely high-frequency sound waves are produced by a low-velocity movement of the stridulatory forewings. Sound production during a wing stroke is pulsed, but the wings do not pause in their closing, requiring that the scraper, in its travel along the file, must do so to create the pulses. We hypothesize that during scraper pauses, the cuticle behind the scraper is bent by the ongoing relative displacement of the wings, storing deformation energy. When the scraper slips free it unbends while being carried along the file and its deformation energy contributes to a more powerful, higher-rate, one-tooth one-wave sound pulse, lasting no more than a few waves at 129 000 Hz. Some other katydid species make pure-tone ultrasonic pulses. Wing velocities and carriers among these pure-tone species fall into two groups: (1) species with ultrasonic carriers below 40 kHz that have higher calling frequencies correlated with higher wing-closing velocities and higher tooth densities: for these katydids the relationship between average tooth strike rate and song frequency approaches 1:1, as in cricket escapement mechanisms; (2) a group of species with ultrasonic carriers above 40 kHz (that includes the Meconematinae): for these katydids closing wing velocities are dramatically lower and they make short trains of pulses, with intervening periods of silence greater than the duration of the pulses they separate. This signal form may be the signature of scraper-stored elastic energy.
Startle behaviors in teleost fishes are well suited for investigations of mechanisms of sensorimotor integration because the behavior is quantifiable and much of the underlying circuitry has been identified. The teleost C-start is triggered by an action potential in one of the two Mauthner (M) cells. To correlate C-start behavior with electrophysiology, extracellular recordings were obtained from the surface of the medulla oblongata in the hindbrain, close to the M-axons, in freely swimming goldfish monitored using high-speed video. The recordings included action potentials generated by the two M-axons, as well as neighboring axons in the dorsal medial longitudinal fasciculus. Axonal backfills indicated that the latter originate from identifiable reticulospinal somata in rhombomeres 2-8 and local interneurons. Diverse auditory and visual stimuli evoked behaviors with kinematics characteristic of the C-start, and the amplitude of the first component of the hindbrain field potential correlated with the C-start direction. The onset of the field potential preceded that of the simultaneously recorded trunk EMG and movement initiation by 1.08+/-0.04 and 8.13+/-0.17 ms, respectively. A subsequent longer latency field potential was predictive of a counterturn. These results indicate that characteristic features of the C-start can be extracted from the neural activity of the M-cell and a population of other reticulospinal neurons in free-swimming goldfish.
This study describes the expression patterns of P-type Na(+)/K(+)-ATPase and V-type H(+)-ATPase in the larval and adult forms of the mosquito Aedes aegypti and provides insight into their relative importance in ion transport function of key osmoregulatory organs. RT-PCR assays indicate that, at the level of the gene, both ATPases are expressed in all of the osmoregulatory tissues of larvae (midgut, Malpighian tubules, rectum and anal papillae) and adults (stomach, Malpighian tubules, anterior hindgut and rectum). Immunohistochemical studies determined that both ATPases are present in high levels in all the relevant organs, with the exception of the larval rectum (P-type Na(+)/K(+)-ATPase only). In larval gastric caeca, ATPase location corresponds to the secretory (basal P-type Na(+)/K(+)-ATPase, apical V-type H(+)-ATPase) and ion-transporting (V-type H(+)-ATPase on both membranes) regions as previously described. The two ATPases switch membrane location along the length of the larval midgut, indicating three possible regionalizations, whereas the adult stomach has uniform expression of basolateral P-type Na(+)/K(+)-ATPase and apical V-type H(+)-ATPase in each cell. In both larval and adult Malpighian tubules, the distal principal cells exhibit high expression levels of V-type H(+)-ATPase (apically and cytoplasmically) whereas P-type Na(+)/K(+)-ATPase is highly expressed in stellate cells found only in the distal two-thirds of each tubule. By contrast, the proximal principal cells express both P-type Na(+)/K(+)-ATPase (basal) and V-type H(+)-ATPase (apical). These results suggest a functional segregation along the length of the Malpighian tubules based on cell type and region. P-type Na(+)/K(+)-ATPase is the only pump apparent in the larval rectum whereas in the larval anal papillae and the adult hindgut (including the anterior hindgut and rectum with rectal pads), P-type Na(+)/K(+)-ATPase and V-type H(+)-ATPase localize to the basal and apical membranes, respectively. We discuss our findings in light of previous physiological and morphological studies and re-examine our current models of ion transport in these two developmental stages of mosquitoes that cope with disparate osmoregulatory challenges.
Fotemustine is a cytotoxic alkylating agent, belonging to the group of nitrosourea family. Its mechanism of action is similar to that of other nitrosoureas, characterized by a mono-functional/bi-functional alkylating activity. Worth of consideration is the finding that the presence of high levels of the DNA repair enzyme O6-methylguanine-DNA-methyltransferase (MGMT) in cancer cells confers drug resistance. In different clinical trials Fotemustine showed a remarkable antitumor activity as single agent, and in association with other antineoplastic compounds or treatment modalities. Moreover, its toxicity is generally considered acceptable. The drug has been employed in the treatment of metastatic melanoma, and, on the basis of its pharmacokinetic properties, in brain tumors, either primitive or metastatic. Moreover, Fotemustine shows pharmacodynamic properties similar to those of mono-functional alkylating compounds (e.g. DNA methylating drugs, such as Temozolomide), that have been recently considered for the management of acute refractory leukaemia. Therefore, it is reasonable to assume that this agent could be a good candidate to play a potential role in haematological malignancies.
As opportunities to gamble have increased during the 20th century, so has gambling research. This study used new strategies, methods, and technology to examine citation trends and the growth of knowledge in the field of gambling studies. The sample included 2,246 citations that were published between 1903 and 2003. By using multiple keywords to classify each citation into distinct topic areas, this study yielded a more comprehensive analysis than was previously available. The results reveal that gambling-related research has grown at an exponential rate. The most prevalent topics explored within gambling studies citations have been pathology, risk-taking, decision-making and addiction. Between 1999 and 2003, studies addressing epidemiology, drug abuse, comorbidity and neuroscience have become increasingly prevalent. Based on these trends and their implications, this paper provides several recommendations for both future areas of inquiry within the field of gambling studies and better classification techniques for citations within all fields of psychology.

The practice of science usually involves more than a solitary genius in a solitary room, coping with the problem of her/his life. From the second half of the 19th century onwards, scientific research, especially in the field of the Natural Sciences, has grown into a more and more complex practice, which often entangles very special needs, in terms of research objects, techniques, sources, and perspectives. A few special places, such as the Stazione Zoologica di Napoli, have represented in this period the focal points of an ever growing international scientific network, promoting independent research, exchange and diffusion of novel practices and techniques and unrestricted confrontation. The so-called &quot;Naples experience&quot; has been cited by a large number of renowned scientists of the last two centuries as a key moment in their scientific life. Here we have tried to test it against the experience of three great scientists par excellence, i.e. three Nobel laureates (T. H. Morgan, Otto Warburg, J. D. Watson). The different experiences they have had at Naples represent, in our view, three different moments of the professional life of almost every scientist. Therefore, we have chosen to present them as a phenomenology. The final section is dedicated to a survey of the Zoological Station's contribution to neurosciences, especially to the Naples experience of the Nobel Prize winner Sir Bernard Katz and his assistant Ricardo Miledi, between 1965 and 1970. Their work on the squid at Naples allowed probing and quantitative refinement of results already obtained on different animals and contributed to reinforce the long lasting neurophysiological tradition of the institute.
In 1981 the Nobel Prize for Medicine or Physiology was awarded to Roger Sperry for his work on the functional specialization of the cerebral hemispheres, and to David Hubel and Torsten Wiesel for their work on information processing in the visual system. The present paper points to some important links between the work of Sperry and that of Hubel and Wiesel and to their influences on neuroscience in the best tradition going back to Cajal.
Giuseppe Levi (1872-1965), Professor of Anatomy at the University of Turin, had broad research interests and was a pioneer of in vitro studies on cultured cells. He provided a number of contributions on the nervous system, especially on the plasticity of sensory ganglion cells. An influential and magnetic teacher and mentor, he gathered around him a large group of brilliant students. He has the peculiar primate to count among his students three Nobel laureates in Physiology or Medicine: Salvador Luria, Renato Dulbecco, and Rita Levi-Montalcini. For all three of them, the internship in Levi's laboratory provided an exceptional initial stimulus. They remained in close contact with each other and with Levi even after the 1940s when they migrated to the United States for political and racial reasons, engaging in different fields of research. Rita Levi-Montalcini, who was awarded the Nobel Prize (1986) for the discovery of Nerve Growth Factor, was stimulated and assisted in her work by Giuseppe Levi during the difficult years of World War II. With Giuseppe Levi, she pursued early studies on the relationships between neural centers and their peripheral target of innervation, and she has witnessed in her writings the enthusiasm of her mentor.
In 1932 Sherrington and Adrian were awarded the Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine &quot;for their discoveries regarding the functions of neurons&quot; and in 1944 Erlanger and Gasser were awarded the same prize &quot;for their discoveries relating to the highly differentiated functions of single nerve fibres.&quot; Sherrington made important discoveries on the reflex functions of the spinal cord, formulated the concept of the &quot;synapse,&quot; defined the principle of the &quot;final common path,&quot; studied &quot;reciprocal innervation&quot; and showed that central inhibition was an active phenomenon. He distinguished three types of receptors: extero-, intero-, and proprioceptive, studied the proprioceptive reflexes in the decerebrate animal and mapped their pathways in the spinal cord. Adrian made fundamental discoveries on the function of single nerve fibers, developed new techniques for the amplification of the weak signals and discovered that increased stimulation resulted in increased frequency of the impulses, the amplitude being unaffected. Erlanger and Gasser introduced the cathode-ray oscillograph and demonstrated the existence of three main groups of nerve fibers, A, B, and C, the conduction velocities of which were in approximately linear relationship with the fiber diameter, the A-fibers being the fastest and thickest and the C-fibers the slowest and having the finest diameter. Together the contributions by the four Laureates paved the way to modern neurophysiology.
This paper follows the form of that by Mazzarello that precedes it (Mazzarello, 2006) and presents an imaginary interview with Santiago Ramn y Cajal in December 1906. A few days earlier Cajal had been awarded the Nobel Prize for Physiology or Medicine, an award that he shared equally with Professor Camillo Golgi. Golgi had been recognized for his work as a pioneer into investigations of the nervous system, primarily on account of his discovery of the &quot;black reaction&quot; of silver chromate impregnation of whole nerve cells and their processes. Cajal had been recognized for his implementation of that method and for laying with it the foundations of what was to become modern neuroanatomical science. Paradoxically, the two awardees had been led by their researches to diametrically opposed views of the organization of the nervous system. Golgi believed in a continuous network of axons that formed the basis of all the integrative properties of the nervous system, while Cajal had provided the information that led to the formulation of the neuron doctrine that saw the nervous system as being made up of chains of discontinuous cells joined by polarized functional contacts that we now call synapses. The paper takes the form of an interview with Professor Cajal in the Grand Hotel Stockholm. His responses to questions posed by the imaginary interviewer are all taken from Cajal's own writings.
This paper presents an &quot;impossible interview&quot; to Professor Camillo Golgi, placed in time in December 1906. The Italian Professor Golgi from Pavia has been awarded the Nobel Prize for Physiology or Medicine ex aequo with the Spanish anatomist Santiago Ramn y Cajal. Both scientists have obtained the award for their work on the anatomy of the nervous system. However, they have opposite views on the mechanisms underlying nervous functions. Golgi believes that the axons stained by his &quot;black reaction&quot; form a continuous anatomical or functional network along which nervous impulses propagate. Ramn y Cajal is the paladin of the neuron theory, a hypothesis questioned by Golgi in his Nobel lecture of Tuesday, December 11. After the ceremony, an independent journalist has interviewed Professor Golgi in the Grand Hotel in Stockholm. Excerpts about his education, his main scientific discoveries, and his personal life are here given (reconstructing the &quot;impossible interview&quot; on the basis of Golgi's original writings).
The Nobel Prizes for Physiology or Medicine have included a relatively large number of awards for work in the neurosciences, or for work construed to have made a contribution to neuroscience. These are recognized in this article by brief explanations of the particular contribution that warranted this magnificent (and munificent) award. The first prizes in neuroscience were awarded five years after the initiation of the Nobel Foundation's program. Up to 2005, 28 prizes have been awarded for achievements in neuroscience to 52 individuals.
Members of the IFN regulatory factors (IRFs) family are transcriptional regulators that play essential roles in the homeostasis and function of the immune system. Recent studies indicate a direct involvement of some members of the family in the development of different subsets of dendritic cells (DC). Here, we report that IRF-1 is a potent modulator of the development and functional maturation of DC. IRF-1-deficient mice (IRF-1(-/-)) exhibited a predominance of plasmacytoid DC and a selective reduction of conventional DC, especially the CD8alpha(+) subset. IRF-1(-/-) splenic DC were markedly impaired in their ability to produce proinflammatory cytokines such as IL-12. By contrast, they expressed high levels of IL-10, TGF-beta, and the tolerogenic enzyme indoleamine 2,3 dioxygenase. As a consequence, IRF-1(-/-) DC were unable to undergo full maturation and retained plasmacytoid and tolerogenic characteristics following virus infection ex vivo and in vivo. Accordingly, DC from IRF-1(-/-) mice were less efficient in stimulating the proliferation of allogeneic T cells and instead, induced an IL-10-mediated, suppressive activity in allogeneic CD4(+)CD25(+) regulatory T cells. Together, these results indicate that IRF-1 is a key regulator of DC differentiation and maturation, exerting a variety of effects on the functional activation and tolerogenic potential of these cells.

Current evidence suggests that matrix metalloproteinases (MMPs) have a role in early atherosclerosis, plaque rupture and myocardial infarction. Polymorphisms in MMP genes have been examined for associations with atherosclerosis, but interpretation is complicated by methodological issues. This article presents a systematic review of these association studies and a meta-analysis of available data for polymorphisms where a sufficient number of studies was available. The 5A allele of the MMP3 5A/6A polymorphism was associated with acute myocardial infarction (odds ratio (OR) 1.26, 95% confidence interval (CI) 1.1 to 1.4, p&lt;0.001), suggesting its role in plaque rupture. There was no association with the functional MMP9 -1562C/T polymorphism (OR 1.11, 95% CI 1.0 to 1.3, p = 0.18). Current data provide evidence for the role of MMP3 polymorphism in plaque destabilisation, but elucidation of the role of other MMP gene variants in atherosclerosis will depend on better study design, including a larger sample size, extensive screening of individual genes with haplotype analysis and replication of studies to avoid publication bias.
The ultrastructural replication cycle of human herpesvirus 6A and 6B, both T-lymphotropic viruses, with tropism for the central nervous system, was compared by electron microscopy in the same cells, that is, in the T-lymphoblastoid cell line SupT-1 and in human astrocytes. Both HHV-6A and HHV-6B replicated efficiently in SupT-1 and formed viral particles. The tegument is the least characterized structure of the herpesviral particle and both variants were able to form intranuclear membrane compartments called tegusomes in SupT-1 where tegumentation occurred. Also, tegumentation occurred in HHV-6A infected cells in the nucleoplasm without the presence of a tegusome. This suggests that there is more than one possible route of tegumentation. Differences in the replication cycles between HHV-6A and HHV-6B were also observed in the cytoplasm. One such difference was that prominent annulate lamellae were only found in the cytoplasm of HHV-6A infected cells. In astrocytes a successful formation of viral particles was only seen with the HHV-6A variant. The HHV-6A virus life cycle in astrocytes resembled the life cycle in the T-cell line SupT-1, except that no annulate lamellae were found. Complete viral particles were found extracellularly around the astrocytes and the supernatant of infected astrocytes were able to re-infect SupT-1 cells. This suggests that HHV-6A infection in astrocytes can generate complete, viable, and infectious viral particles. The HHV-6 variants behave differently in the same type of cells and have different tropisms for astrocytes, supporting the notion that the variants might induce different diseases.
A significant proportion of human gonadotropin-releasing hormone receptors (GnRHRs) are normally retained in the endoplasmic reticulum (ER); however, nearly all rat GnRHRs are routed to the plasma membrane. When mutations are introduced into either receptor, considerably more of the proteins are recognized by the quality control system (QCS) as misfolded and retained compared with wild-type (WT) receptor, resulting in decreased signaling in the presence of agonist. Calnexin, a component of the QCS, decreased plasma membrane expression of the GnRHRs, an effect that was mediated by a physical interaction between the receptor and the calnexin. Only the human receptor showed reduced signaling because it had fewer spare receptors compared with the rat GnRHR, allowing calnexin to affect signaling. Calnexin did not affect receptor signaling when K(191) was deleted from the human WT GnRHR. Removal of this amino acid decreases receptor misfolding and increases plasma membrane expression. K(191) is not present in the rat WT GnRHR. A pharmacological chaperone that corrects GnRHR misfolding, increased expression of the human WT GnRHR in the presence of calnexin. Calnexin apparently retains misfolded GnRHRs but routes correctly folded receptors to the plasma membrane. Mutation of a calnexin protein kinase C consensus phosphorylation site promoted increased retention of the human GnRHR, suggesting that calnexin phosphorylation controls the retention mechanism. We conclude that a proportion of the human and the rat WT GnRHR appears to be retained in the ER by calnexin, an effect that decreases GnRHR signaling capacity.
Cubomedusae, or box jellyfish, have the most elaborate visual system of all cnidarians. They have 24 eyes of four morphological types, distributed on four sensory structures called rhopalia. Box jellyfish also display complex, probably visually guided behaviors such as obstacle avoidance and fast directional swimming. Here we describe the strikingly complex and partially bilaterally symmetrical nervous system found in each rhopalium of the box jellyfish, Tripedalia cystophora, and present the rhopalial neuroanatomy in an atlas-like series of drawings. Discrete populations of neurons and commissures connecting the left and the right side along with two populations of nonneuronal cells were visualized using several different histochemical staining techniques and electron microscopy. The number of rhopalial nerve cells and their overall arrangement indicates that visual processing and integration at least partly happen within the rhopalia. The larger of the two nonneuronal cell populations comprises approximately 2,000 likely undifferentiated cells and may support a rapid cell turnover in the rhopalial nervous system.
Most previous studies compared suicidal behavior in subjects with and without a history of childhood abuse, whereas less attention was paid to the comparison of suicide attempters and nonattempters among subjects reporting childhood abuse. To identify risk and protective factors against suicidal behavior, we compared suicide attempters with nonattempters among the sample of 119 depressed inpatients who reported childhood abuse. Compared with nonattempters, suicide attempters were younger, had more self-rated depression severity and suicidal ideation, higher trait aggression and more cluster B personality disorder comorbidity, less coping potential, and fewer moral objections to suicide (MOS)/religious beliefs. Logistic regression showed that more severe suicidal ideation and fewer MOS/religious beliefs were associated with suicidal acts in subjects with reported childhood abuse. Furthermore, suicidal ideation and MOS/religious beliefs were significantly inversely correlated. The results of this clinical study add support to previous reports that religious/spiritual coping could serve as an additional resource in prevention of suicidal behavior for subjects with reported childhood abuse.
Prosthetic devices may someday be used to treat lesions of the central nervous system. Similar to neural circuits, these prosthetic devices should adapt their properties over time, independent of external control. Here we describe an artificial retina, constructed in silicon using single-transistor synaptic primitives, with two forms of locally controlled adaptation: luminance adaptation and contrast gain control. Both forms of adaptation rely on local modulation of synaptic strength, thus meeting the criteria of internal control. Our device is the first to reproduce the responses of the four major ganglion cell types that drive visual cortex, producing 3600 spiking outputs in total. We demonstrate how the responses of our device's ganglion cells compare to those measured from the mammalian retina. Replicating the retina's synaptic organization in our chip made it possible to perform these computations using a hundred times less energy than a microprocessor-and to match the mammalian retina in size and weight. With this level of efficiency and autonomy, it is now possible to develop fully implantable intraocular prostheses.
The widespread application of neuronal probes for chronic recording of brain activity and functional stimulation has been slow to develop partially due to long-term biocompatibility problems with existing metallic and ceramic probes and the tissue damage caused during probe insertion. Stiff probes are easily inserted into soft brain tissue but cause astrocytic scars that become insulating sheaths between electrodes and neurons. In this communication, we explore the feasibility of a new approach to the composition and implantation of chronic electrode arrays. We demonstrate that softer polymer-based probes can be inserted into the olfactory bulb of a mouse and that slow insertion of the probes reduces astrocytic scarring. We further present the development of a micromachined shape memory polymer probe, which provides a vehicle to self-deploy an electrode at suitably slow rates and which can provide sufficient force to penetrate the brain. The deployment rate and composition of shape memory polymer probes can be tailored by polymer chemistry and actuator design. We conclude that it is feasible to fabricate shape memory polymer-based electrodes that would slowly self-implant compliant conductors into the brain, and both decrease initial trauma resulting from implantation and enhance long-term biocompatibility for long-term neuronal measurement and stimulation.
We have recently shown that aged mice with haploinsufficiencies for the neurotrophin receptors trkB, trkC or both, trkB and trkC, display reduced cell numbers in the substantia nigra and in the dentate gyrus, but not in the amygdala. Moreover, both hippocampus and amygdala contain increased numbers of degenerated axonal fragments. Consistent with this observation and the expression of trkB and trkC by midbrain dopaminergic neurons, we show now that heterozygous deletion of the trkB or/and trkC receptor genes significantly reduces catecholaminergic, tyrosine hydroxylase (TH-) positive fiber densities in the hippocampus and amygdala mainly in aged (21-23 month old) mice. In the amygdala the phenotype was restricted to the lateral and basolateral nucleus of the amygdala. In adult (6 month old) mice, reductions in catecholaminergic fiber densities were only found in the hippocampal area CA3 and the dentate gyrus of heterozygous trkB and trkB/C mice. Our observations suggest that signaling through trkB and trkC neurotrophin receptors is important for the maintenance of the catecholaminergic innervation of two limbic key regions, the hippocampus and amygdala.
Embryonic birds and mammals are capable of axon regeneration after spinal cord injury, but this ability is lost during a discrete developmental transition. We recently showed that changes within maturing neurons, as opposed to changes solely in the spinal cord environment, significantly restrict axon regeneration during development. The developmental changes within neurons that limit axon regeneration remain unclear. One gap in knowledge is the identity of the adhesive receptors that embryonic neurons use to extend axons in the spinal cord. Here we test the roles of L1/NgCAM, beta1 integrin, and cadherins, using a coculture system in which embryonic chick brainstem neurons regenerate axons into an explant of embryonic spinal cord. By in vivo and in vitro methods, we found that brainstem neurons reduce axonal expression of L1 as they mature. Disrupting either L1 or beta1 integrin function individually in our coculture system partially inhibited growth of brainstem axons in spinal cords, while disrupting cadherin function alone had no effect. However, when all three adhesive receptors were blocked simultaneously, axon growth in the spinal cord was reduced by 90%. Using immunohistochemistry and in situ hybridization we show that during the period when neurons lose their regenerative capacity they reduce expression of mRNA for N-cadherin, and reduce axonal L1/NgCAM protein through a post-transcriptional mechanism. These data show that embryonic neurons use L1/NgCAM, beta1 integrin, and cadherin receptors for axon regeneration in the embryonic spinal cord, and raise the possibility that a reduced expression of these essential receptors may contribute to the low-regenerative capacity of older neurons.

The duration of intracellular signaling is thought to be a critical component in effecting specific biological responses. This paradigm is demonstrated by growth factor activation of the extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK) signaling cascade in the rat pheochromocytoma cell line (PC12 cells). In this model, sustained ERK activation induced by nerve growth factor (NGF) results in differentiation, whereas transient ERK activation induced by epidermal growth factor (EGF) results in proliferation in these cells. Recently, the immediate early gene product c-fos has been proposed to be a sensor for ERK signaling duration in fibroblasts. In this study, we ask whether this is true for NGF and EGF stimulation of PC12 cells. We show that NGF, but not EGF, can regulate both c-fos stability and activation in an ERK-dependent manner in PC12 cells. This is achieved through ERK-dependent phosphorylation of c-fos. Interestingly, distinct sites regulate enhanced stability and transactivation of c-fos. Phosphorylation of Thr325 and Thr331 are required for maximal NGF-dependent transactivation of c-fos. In addition, a consensus ERK binding site (DEF domain) is also required for c-fos transactivation. However, stability is controlled by ERK-dependent phosphorylation of Ser374, while phosphorylation of Ser362 can induce conformational changes in protein structure. We also provide evidence that sustained ERK activation is required for proper post-translational regulation of c-fos following NGF treatment of PC12 cells. Because these ERK-dependent phosphorylations are required for proper c-fos function, and occur sequentially, we propose that c-fos is a sensor for ERK signaling duration in the neuronal-like cell line PC12.
The hippocampus is a brain region critical for learning and memory processes believed to result from long-lasting changes in the function and structure of synapses. Recent findings suggest that ATP functions as a neurotransmitter or neuromodulator in the mammalian brain, where it activates several different types of ionotropic and G protein-coupled ATP receptors that transduce calcium signals. However, the roles of specific ATP receptors in synaptic plasticity have not been established. Here we show that mice lacking the P2X3 ATP receptor (P2X3KO mice) exhibit abnormalities in hippocampal synaptic plasticity that can be restored by pharmacological modification of calcium-sensitive kinase and phosphatase activities. Calcium imaging studies revealed an attenuated calcium response to ATP in hippocampal neurons from P2X3KO mice. Basal synaptic transmission, paired-pulse facilitation and long-term potentiation are normal at synapses in hippocampal slices from P2X3KO. However, long-term depression is severely impaired at CA1, CA3 and dentate gyrus synapses. Long-term depression can be partially rescued in slices treated with a protein phosphatase 1-2 A activator or by postsynaptic inhibition of calcium/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II. Despite the deficit in hippocampal long-term depression, P2X3KO mice performed normally in water maze tests of spatial learning, suggesting that long-term depression is not critical for this type of hippocampus-dependent learning and memory.
Perinatal glucocorticoid (GC) treatment is increasingly associated with long-term disturbances in hypothalamo-pituitary-adrenocortical function. In the male rat, such treatment induces profound molecular, morphological and functional changes in the anterior pituitary gland at adulthood. To determine whether these effects are sex-specific, we have examined the effects of perinatal dexamethasone treatment on the female pituitary gland, focusing on (i) the integrity of the annexin 1 (ANXA1) dependent regulatory effects of GCs on adrenocorticotrophic hormone (ACTH) release and (ii) corticotroph and folliculo-stellate (FS) cell morphology. Dexamethasone was given to pregnant (gestational days 16-19) or lactating (days 1-7 post partum) rats via the drinking water (1 microg/ml); controls received normal drinking water. Pituitary tissue from the female offspring was examined ex vivo at adulthood (60-90 days). Both treatment regimes reduced the intracellular and cell surface ANXA1 expression, as determined by western blot analysis and quantitative immunogold electron microscopic histochemistry. In addition, they compromised the ability of dexamethasone to suppress the evoked release of ACTH from the excised tissue in vitro, a process which requires the translocation of ANXA1 from the cytoplasm to the cell surface of FS cells. Although neither treatment regime affected the number of FS cells or corticotrophs, both altered the subcellular morphology of these cells. Thus, prenatal dexamethasone treatment increased while neonatal treatment decreased FS cell size and cytoplasmic area. By contrast, corticotroph size was unaffected by either treatment, as also was the size of the secretory granules. Corticotroph granule density and margination were, however, increased markedly by the prenatal treatment, while the neonatal treatment had no effect on granule density but decreased granule margination. Thus, perinatal dexamethasone treatment exerts long-term effects on the female pituitary gland, altering gene expression, cell morphology and the ANXA1-dependent GC regulation of ACTH secretion. The changes are similar but not identical to those reported in the male.
CB(2) cannabinoid receptors exist in immune cells including macrophages. Affinity-purified antibodies against the CB(2) receptor identified a 45 kDa protein in rat brain, human tonsil and rat and mouse microglia, but not mouse N18TG2 neuroblastoma cells. Intracerebroventricular lipopolysaccharide (LPS) increased immunoreactive CB(2) receptors in brain membranes detected by Western blot. LPS increased immunodetectable CB(2) receptors in cultured RAW 264.7 macrophages, and this was partially attenuated by cyclohexamide or the protein kinase A and C inhibitors H8 and bis-indolylmaleimide. Forskolin or dibutyryl cyclic AMP increased CB(2) receptor immunoreactivity, suggesting the involvement of the cyclic AMP-protein kinase A-Cyclic AMP response element pathway in the regulation of CB(2) receptor levels.
Chronic omega-3 or omega-6 polyunsaturated fatty acid (n-3; n-6 respectively) treatment attenuated human interleukin-1beta (hIL-1beta; 5.0 microg/kg)-elicited rise of circulating ACTH levels and attenuated the sickness behavior and locomotor suppression elicited by the cytokine. Furthermore, hIL-1beta markedly elevated circulating levels of plasma IL-6, an effect attenuated by n-3, but not n-6 treatment. Such protective effects were not evident upon short-term (3 day) n-3 exposure. These results demonstrate that long-term administration of either n-3 or n-6 confers protection against several neuroendocrinological, immunological and behavioral actions of hIL-1beta challenge, although in general the effects of n-3 were more pronounced.

The study was designed to investigate the possible occurrence of &quot;wearing-off&quot; (WO) during dopamine agonist (DA) monotherapy. Sixty patients with &quot;de novo&quot; idiopathic PD were randomised into one of two DA monotherapy branches to receive oral ropinirole at 15 mg per day, or pramipexole at 2.1 mg per day. DA doses could be increased in the following two years but levodopa could not be added until the study ended. WO was assessed by self-evaluation charts confirmed by a blinded observation of a 30% or greater deterioration in the Unified Parkinson's Disease Rating Scale (UPDRS) motor score. Proc Mixed and Kaplan-Meier curves evaluated treatment variables as a function of time. T-tests were used to compare post-hoc variables reclassified according to WO occurrence. Thirty patients received ropinirole, and 30 pramipexole monotherapy. Eighteen patients (30%) experienced &quot;wearing-off&quot; 15-21 months after beginning monotherapy. No differences were observed between treatments. WO phenomena was observed 3.4+/-0.3 hours after intake of the morning or afternoon dose and consisted of UPDRS score worsening by 11.1+/-2.1 points (69-111% more than &quot;on&quot; score). Statistical evaluation gave evidence of differences between patients who experienced WO and those who did not: UPDRS motor scores obtained at admission to the study were higher (by 3.4+/-0.2 points, p=0.01 t-test) and DA doses at 6-12 months were higher in fluctuating patients. UPDRS motor scores deteriorated, however. similarly and there were no differences, in UPDRS scores recorded in ON conditions, between fluctuating and non-fluctuating patients at the end of the study. Our findings provide evidence of WO phenomena in patients with early PD receiving non-ergolinic DA monotherapy.
Axonal degeneration is a major cause of permanent disability in multiple sclerosis (MS). Recent observations from our and other laboratories suggest that sodium accumulation within compromised axons is a key, early step in the degenerative process, and hence that limiting axonal sodium influx may represent a mechanism for axonal protection in MS. Here we assess whether lamotrigine, a sodium channel-blocking agent, is effective in preventing axonal degeneration in an animal model of MS, namely chronic-relapsing experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (CR-EAE). When administered from 7 days post-inoculation, lamotrigine provided a small but significant reduction in the neurological deficit present at the termination of the experiments (averaged over three independent experiments; vehicle: 3.5+/-2.7; lamotrigine: 2.6+/-2.0, P&lt;0.05) and preserved more functional axons in the spinal cord (measured as mean compound action potential area; vehicle: 31.7 microV.ms+/-23.0; lamotrigine: 42.9+/-27.4, P&lt;0.05). Histological examination of the thoracic spinal cord (n=71) revealed that lamotrigine treatment also provided significant protection against axonal degeneration (percentage degeneration in dorsal column; vehicle: 33.5 %+/-38.5; lamotrigine: 10.4 %+/-12.5, P&lt;0.01). The findings suggest that lamotrigine may provide a novel avenue for axonal protection in MS.
Severe shortlasting headaches are rare but very disabling conditions with a major impact on the patients' quality of life. Following the IHS criteria, these headaches broadly divide themselves into those associated with autonomic symptoms, so called trigeminal autonomic cephalgias (TACs), and those with few autonomic symptoms. The trigeminal-autonomic cephalgias include cluster headache, paroxysmal hemicranias, and a syndrome called SUNCT (short lasting unilateral neuralgic cephalgias with conjunctival injection and tearing). In all of these syndromes, hemispheric head pain and cranial autonomic symptoms are prominent. The paroxysmal hemicranias have, unlike cluster headaches, a very robust response to indomethacin, leading to a notion of indomethacin-sensitive headaches. Although TACs are, in comparison with migraine, quite rare, it is nevertheless very important to consider the clinical factor that they are easy to diagnose and the treatment is very effective in most patients.
Genetic association studies offer a powerful approach to identify the multiple variants of small effect that modulate susceptibility to common, complex disease. They, however, have a poor reputation, mainly because of the consistent lack of replication of all but a few. Thousands of genetic studies have been carried out on multifactorial diseases in the past 30 years, yielding only about 50 variants that can be considered to be true positives. Although the positive studies show proof of principle, the multitude of negative studies indicate fundamental problems in the design and execution of association studies. Here, we discuss some of the more pertinent study design and data analysis issues which can affect the outcome of genetic association studies.


Recently, limbic encephalitis (LE) associated with Voltage-gated potassium channel antibody (VGKC-Ab) has been postulated as a new autoimmune disorder. Most previously reported cases of VGKC-Ab-associated LE were non-paraneoplastic, and reports of a paraneoplastic type are rare. Here we describe a 59-year-old woman with paraneoplastic VGKC-Ab-associated LE preceding the recurrence of invasive thymoma. There was a close temporal relationship between the clinical course and the changes of the VGKC-Ab titer. Unlike many of the non-paraneoplastic VGKC-Ab-associated LE cases, our cases showed the more extensive high intensity lesions on MRI and the absence of seizure and hyponatremia.
Madras motor neuron disease (MMND) and Madras motor neuron disease variant (MMNDV) have an unique geographic distribution with concentration of majority of cases in the southern states of India. They have the characteristic features of onset in young, weakness and wasting of the limbs, multiple cranial nerve palsies particularly involving the 7th, 9th to 12th and sensorineural hearing impairment. In addition, all patients with MMNDV have bilateral optic atrophy. During the past 32 years, a total of 104 patients were diagnosed to have MMND and among these 25 patients with the familial form were further evaluated. In this report, we describe the clinical features of these 25 patients diagnosed to have familial Madras motor neuron disease (FMMND) or familial Madras motor neuron disease variant (FMMNDV), belonging to 15 families hailing from southern India. There were 10 patients diagnosed to have FMMND and 15 with FMMNDV. There were 14 males and 11 females with mean age at onset of 13.0+/-6.2 years and mean duration of illness of 73.6+/-74.0 months. Notably, the occurrence of MMNDV in the familial group (15 of 25 patients) was significantly more as compared to occurrence in the group with sporadic MMND (SMMND) [12 of 79 patients] (p=0.0002).
Existing data concerning the role of the delta-chemokine fractalkine (CX3CL1) and its receptor (CX3CR1) in lentivirus-induced encephalitis are limited and controversial. We explored, by quantitative in situ hybridization and immunohistochemistry, the cell-specific changes of CX3CL1 and CX3CR1 in rhesus macaque brain during simian immunodeficiency virus (SIV) infection and antiretroviral treatment. Neuronal expression of CX3CL1 was significantly reduced in cortex and striatum of AIDS-diseased monkeys as compared with uninfected and asymptomatic SIV-infected monkeys. CX3CL1 mRNA was increased in some endothelial cells and newly induced in astrocytes and macrophages focally in areas of SIV burden and inflammatory infiltrates. In most CX3CL1-positive astrocytes and macrophages, the transcription factor NF-kappaB was translocated to the nucleus. CX3CR1 was upregulated in scattered, nodule, and giant cell-forming microglia/macrophages and mononuclear infiltrates close to CX3CL1-induced cells in the brain. Treatment of AIDS monkeys with the central nervous system-permeant 6-chloro-2',3'-dideoxyguanosine fully reversed SIV burden, productive inflammation, nuclear NF-kappaB translocation as well as focal induction of CX3CL1 in astrocytes and macrophages and downregulation in neurons. In contrast, diffuse CX3CR1-positive microgliosis and GFAP-positive astrogliosis were partially reversed by 6-chloro-2',3'-dideoxyguanosine. Thus, focally induced CX3CL1 may be a target for therapeutic intervention to limit ongoing inflammatory infiltration into brain in lentivirus infection.
The causes of the selective neurodegeneration in Parkinson disease (PD) and amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) are unknown and commonalities among these and other age-related neurodegenerative diseases continue to be sought. Morphologic, biochemical, molecular genetic, and cell/animal model studies suggest that mitochondria might be a convergence point for neurodegeneration. The functions and properties of mitochondria might render subsets of selectively vulnerable neurons intrinsically susceptible to cellular aging and stress. In PD, mutations in putative mitochondrial proteins have been identified recently and mitochondrial DNA mutations have been found in nigral neurons. In ALS, changes occur in mitochondrial respiratory chain enzymes and in mitochondrial cell death proteins, indicative of an activation of programmed cell death pathways. Mouse models are beginning to reveal possible principles governing the biology of selective neuronal vulnerability that implicate mitochondria in neuronal death processes ranging from apoptosis to necrosis. This review presents how malfunctioning mitochondria might contribute to neuronal death in PD and ALS.
This study tested whether firing rate and spike shape could be used to distinguish projection cells from interneurons in extracellular recordings of basolateral amygdala (BLA) neurons. To this end, we recorded BLA neurons in isoflurane-anesthetized animals with tungsten microelectrodes. Projection cells were identified by antidromic activation from cortical projection sites of the BLA. Although most projection cells fired spontaneously at low rates (&lt;1 Hz), an important subset fired at higher rates (up to 6.8 Hz). In fact, the distribution of firing rates in projection cells and unidentified BLA neurons overlapped extensively, even though the latter cell group presumably contains a higher proportion of interneurons. The only difference between the two distributions was a small subset (5.1%) of unidentified neurons with unusually high firing rates (9-16 Hz). Similarly, distributions of spike durations in both cell groups were indistinguishable, although most of the fast-firing neurons had spike durations at the low end of the distribution. However, we observed that spike durations depended on the exact position of the electrode with respect to the recorded cell, varying by as much as 0.7 ms. Thus neither firing rate nor spike waveform allowed for unequivocal separation of projection cells from interneurons. Nevertheless, we propose the use of two firing rate cutoffs to obtain relatively pure samples of projection cells and interneurons: &lt; or =1 Hz for projection cells and &gt; or =7 Hz for fast-spiking interneurons. Supplemented with spike-duration cutoffs of &gt; or =0.7 ms for projection cells and &lt; or =0.5 ms for interneurons, this approach should keep instances of misclassifications to a minimum.
The present study examined the activity of primate shoulder and elbow muscles using a novel reaching task. We enforced similar patterns of center-out movement while the animals countered viscous loads at their shoulder, elbow, both joints, or neither joint. Accordingly, we could examine reach-related activity during the unloaded condition and torque-related activity by comparing activity across load conditions. During unloaded reaching the upper arm muscles exhibited a bimodal distribution of preferred hand direction. Maximal reach-related activity occurred with hand movements mostly toward or away from the body. Arm muscles also exhibited a bimodal distribution of their preferred torque direction. Maximal torque-related activity typically occurred with shoulder-extension/elbow-flexion torque or shoulder-flexion/elbow-extension torque. Similar biases in reach-related and torque-related activity could be reproduced by optimizing a global measure of muscle activity. These biases were also observed in the neural activity of primary motor cortex (M1). The parallels between M1 and muscular activity demonstrate another link between motor cortical processing and the motor periphery and may reflect an optimization process performed by the sensorimotor system.
Neurons in cortical area V4 respond selectively to complex visual patterns such as curved contours and non-Cartesian gratings. Most previous experiments in V4 have measured responses to small, idiosyncratic stimulus sets and no single functional model yet accounts for all of the disparate results. We propose that one model, the spectral receptive field (SRF), can explain many observations of selectivity in V4. The SRF describes tuning in terms of the orientation and spatial frequency spectrum and can, in principle, predict the response to any visual stimulus. We estimated SRFs for neurons in V4 of awake primates by linearized reverse correlation of responses to a large set of natural images. We find that V4 neurons have large orientation and spatial frequency bandwidth and often bimodal orientation tuning. For comparison, we estimated SRFs for neurons in primary visual cortex (V1). Consistent with previous observations, we find that V1 neurons have narrower bandwidth than that of V4. To determine whether estimated SRFs can account for previous observations of selectivity, we used them to predict responses to Cartesian gratings, non-Cartesian gratings, natural images, and curved contours. Based on these predictions, we find that the majority of neurons in V1 are selective for Cartesian gratings, whereas the majority of V4 neurons are selective for non-Cartesian gratings or natural images. The SRF describes visual tuning properties with a second-order nonlinear model. These results support the hypothesis that a second-order model is sufficient to describe the general mechanisms mediating shape selectivity in area V4.
It is known that a subset of taste cells generate action potentials in response to taste stimuli. However, responsiveness of these cells to particular tastants remains unknown. In the present study, by using a newly developed extracellular recording technique, we recorded action potentials from the basolateral membrane of single receptor cells in response to taste stimuli applied apically to taste buds isolated from mouse fungiform papillae. By this method, we examined taste-cell responses to stimuli representing the four basic taste qualities (NaCl, Na saccharin, HCl, and quinine-HCl). Of 72 cells responding to taste stimuli, 48 (67%) responded to one, 22 (30%) to two, and 2 (3%) to three of four taste stimuli. The entropy value presenting the breadth of responsiveness was 0.158 +/- 0.234 (mean +/- SD), which was close to that for the nerve fibers (0.183 +/- 0.262). In addition, the proportion of taste cells predominantly sensitive to each of the four taste stimuli, and the grouping of taste cells based on hierarchical cluster analysis, were comparable with those of chorda tympani (CT) fibers. The occurrence of each class of taste cells with different taste responsiveness to the four taste stimuli was not significantly different from that of CT fibers except for classes with broad taste responsiveness. These results suggest that information derived from taste cells generating action potentials may provide the major component of taste information that is transmitted to gustatory nerve fibers.
Microstimulation within the motor regions of the spinal cord is often assumed to activate motoneurons and propriospinal neurons close to the electrode tip. However, previous work has shown that intraspinal microstimulation (ISMS) in the gray matter activates sensory afferent axons as well as alpha-motoneurons (MNs). Here we report on the recruitment of sensory afferent axons and MNs as ISMS amplitudes increased. Intraspinal microstimulation was applied through microwires implanted in the dorsal horn, intermediate region and ventral horn of the L(5)-L(7) segments of the spinal cord in four acutely decerebrated cats, two of which had been chronically spinalized. Activation of sensory axons was detected with electroneurographic recordings from dorsal roots. Activation of MNs was detected with electromyographic (EMG) recordings from hindlimb muscles. Sensory axons were nearly always activated at lower stimulus levels than MNs irrespective of the stimulating electrode location. EMG response latencies decreased as ISMS stimulus intensities increased, suggesting that MNs were first activated transsynaptically and then directly as intensity increased. ISMS elicited antidromic activity in dorsal root filaments with entry zones up to 17 mm rostral and caudal to the stimulation sites. We posit that action potentials elicited in localized terminal branches of afferents spread antidromically to all terminal branches of the afferents and transsynaptically excite MNs and interneurons far removed from the stimulation site. This may help explain how focal ISMS can activate many MNs of a muscle even though they are distributed in long thin columns.
It has been hypothesized that the primate auditory cortex is composed of at least two processing streams, one of which is believed to selectively process spatial information. To test whether spatial information is differentially encoded in different auditory cortical fields, we recorded the responses of single neurons in the auditory cortex of alert macaque monkeys to broadband noise stimuli presented from 360 degrees in azimuth at four different absolute intensities. Cortical areas tested were core areas A1 and rostral (R), caudal belt fields caudomedial and caudolateral, and more rostral belt fields middle lateral and middle medial (MM). We found that almost all neurons encountered showed some spatial tuning. However, spatial selectivity measures showed that the caudal belt fields had the sharpest spatial tuning, A1 had intermediate spatial tuning, and areas R and MM had the least spatial tuning. Although most neurons showed their best responses to contralateral space, best azimuths were observed across the entire 360 degrees of tested space. We also noted that although the responses of many neurons were significantly influenced by eye position, eye position did not systematically influence any of the spatially dependent responses that we measured. These data are consistent with the hypothesis that caudal auditory cortical fields in the primate process spatial features more accurately than the core and more rostral belt fields.
Smooth pursuit eye movements reflect the temporal dynamics of bidimensional (2D) visual motion integration. When tracking a single, tilted line, initial pursuit direction is biased toward unidimensional (1D) edge motion signals, which are orthogonal to the line orientation. Over 200 ms, tracking direction is slowly corrected to finally match the 2D object motion during steady-state pursuit. We now show that repetition of line orientation and/or motion direction does not eliminate the transient tracking direction error nor change the time course of pursuit correction. Nonetheless, multiple successive presentations of a single orientation/direction condition elicit robust anticipatory pursuit eye movements that always go in the 2D object motion direction not the 1D edge motion direction. These results demonstrate that predictive signals about target motion cannot be used for an efficient integration of ambiguous velocity signals at pursuit initiation.
Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is a neurodegenerative disease characterized by a substantial loss of motor neurons in the spinal cord, brain stem, and motor cortex. Previous evidence showed that in a mouse model of a familial form of ALS expressing high levels of the human mutated protein Cu,Zn superoxide dismutase (Gly(93)--&gt;Ala, G93A), the firing properties of single motor neurons are altered to induce neuronal hyperexcitability. To determine whether the functionality of the macroscopic voltage-dependent Na(+) currents is modified in G93A motor neurons, in the present work their physiological properties were examined. The voltage-dependent sodium channels were studied in dissociated motor neurons in culture from nontransgenic mice (Control), from transgenic mice expressing high levels of the human wild-type protein [superoxide dismutase 1 (SOD1)], and from G93A mice, using the whole cell configuration of the patch-clamp recording technique. The voltage dependency of activation and of steady-state inactivation, the kinetics of fast inactivation and slow inactivation of the voltage-dependent Na(+) channels were not modified in the mutated mice. Conversely, the recovery from fast inactivation was significantly faster in G93A motor neurons than that in Control and SOD1. The recovery from fast inactivation was still significantly faster in G93A motor neurons exposed for different times (3-48 h) and concentrations (5-500 microM) to edaravone, a free-radical scavenger. Clarification of the importance of these changes in membrane ion channel functionality may have diagnostic and therapeutic implications in the pathogenesis of ALS.
Neurons in premotor and motor cortex show preparatory activity during an instructed-delay task. It has been suggested that such activity primarily reflects visuospatial aspects of the movement, such as target location or reach direction and extent. We asked whether a more dynamic feature, movement speed, is also reflected. Two monkeys were trained to reach at different speeds (&quot;slow&quot; or &quot;fast,&quot; peak speed being approximately 50-100% higher for the latter) depending on target color. Targets were presented in seven directions and at two distances. Of 95 neurons with tuned delay-period activity, 95, 78, and 94% showed a significant influence of direction, distance, and instructed speed, respectively. Average peak modulations with respect to direction, distance and speed were 18, 10, and 11 spikes/s. Although robust, modulations of firing rate with target direction were not necessarily invariant: for 45% of neurons, the preferred direction depended significantly on target distance and/or instructed speed. We collected an additional dataset, examining in more detail the effect of target distance (5 distances from 3 to 12 cm in 2 directions). Of 41 neurons with tuned delay-period activity, 85, 83, and 98% showed a significant impact of direction, distance, and instructed speed. Statistical interactions between the effects of distance and instructed speed were common, but it was nevertheless clear that distance &quot;tuning&quot; was not in general a simple consequence of speed tuning. We conclude that delay-period preparatory activity robustly reflects a nonspatial aspect of the upcoming reach. However, it is unclear whether the recorded neural responses conform to any simple reference frame, intrinsic or extrinsic.
We investigated in vivo the characteristics of spike-frequency adaptation and the intrinsic membrane properties of an identified, looming-sensitive interneuron of the locust optic lobe, the lobula giant movement detector (LGMD). The LGMD had an input resistance of 4-5 MOmega, a membrane time constant of about 8 ms, and exhibited inward rectification and rebound spiking after hyperpolarizing current pulses. Responses to depolarizing current pulses revealed the neuron's intrinsic bursting properties and pronounced spike-frequency adaptation. The characteristics of adaptation, including its time course, the attenuation of the firing rate, the mutual dependency of these two variables, and their dependency on injected current, closely followed the predictions of a model first proposed to describe the adaptation of cat visual cortex pyramidal neurons in vivo. Our results thus validate the model in an entirely different context and suggest that it might be applicable to a wide variety of neurons across species. Spike-frequency adaptation is likely to play an important role in tuning the LGMD and in shaping the variability of its responses to visual looming stimuli.
A task force appointed by the American Board of Neuroscience Nursing conducted a role delineation study to define current practice in neuroscience nursing. The results were used to validate the content matrix for future Certified Neuroscience Registered Nurse (CNRN) examinations. The study employed a survey design for which the Nursing Intervention Classification taxonomy was the guiding theoretical framework. The eligible sample included all current CNRNs and all members of the American Association of Neuroscience Nursing. An invitation to participate in an online survey was successfully emailed to 2,462 neuroscience nurses; the survey was completed by 477 respondents. They rated the performance and importance of 175 neuroscience nursing activities. On the basis of data analysis conducted by Schroeder Measurement Technologies, Inc., the task force recommended revisions to the CNRN examination matrix to reflect current practice in neuroscience nursing.
Inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate receptors (IP(3)R) are ligand-gated intracellular Ca(2+)channels that mediate release of Ca(2+) from intracellular stores into the cytosol on activation by second messenger IP(3.). Similarly, IP(3)R mediated changes in cytosolic Ca(2+) concentrations control neuronal functions ranging from synaptic transmission to differentiation and apoptosis. IP(3)R-generated cytosolic Ca(2+) transients also control intracellular Ca(2+) release and subsequent retinal ganglion cell (RGC) physiology and pathophysiology. The distribution of IP(3)R isotypes in primary adult mouse RGC cultures was determined to identify molecular substrates of IP(3)R mediated signaling in these neurons. Immunocytochemical labeling of IP(3)Rs in retinal sections and cultured RGCs was carried out using isoform specific antibodies and was detected with fluorescence microscopy. RGCs were identified by the use of morphologic criteria and RGC-specific immunocytochemical markers, neurofilament 68 kDa, Thy 1.1, and Thy 1.2. RGC morphology and immunoreactivity to neurofilament 68 kDa and Thy 1.1 or Thy 1.2 were identified in both RGC primary cultures and tissue cryosections. RGCs showed localization on intracellular membranes with a differential distribution of IP(3)R isoforms 1, 2, and 3. IP(3)R Types 1 and 3 were detected intracellularly throughout the cell whereas Type 2 was expressed predominantly in soma. Expression of all three IP(3)Rs by RGCs indicates that all IP(3)R types potentially play a role in Ca(2+) homeostasis and Ca(2+) signaling in these cells. Differential localization of IP(3) receptor subtypes in combination with biophysical properties of IP(3)R types may be an important molecular mechanism by which RGCs organize their cytosolic Ca(2+) signals.
Previous studies indicate that brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF), through the mediation of the trkB receptor, modulates the expression of differentiated traits in basal forebrain (BF) oligodendrocytes (OLGs). Specifically, BDNF up-regulates the expression of myelin basic protein (MBP), proteolipid protein (PLP), and myelin associated glycoprotein (MAG; Du et al. [2006] Mol. Cell. Neurosci. 31:366-375). However, the signaling cascades mediating the effects of BDNF have not been defined. The current study employs biochemical and molecular biological approaches to examine the involvements of the mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) pathway, the phosphatidylinositol-3 kinase (PI3K) pathway, and the phospholipase C-gamma (PLC-gamma) pathway. Our results indicate that, in BF OLGs, BDNF activates the MAPK pathway and the PLC-gamma pathway but not the PI3K-Akt signaling cascade. By using specific inhibitors and mutated dominant negative or constitutively active forms of MAPK kinase, we demonstrate that the MAPK pathway is mediating the effects of BDNF on expression of differentiated traits in BF OLGs.
Transplantation of neural stem cells (NSC) into lesioned spinal cord offers the potential to increase regeneration by replacing lost neurons or oligodendrocytes. The majority of transplanted NSC, however, typically differentiate into astrocytes that may exacerbate glial scar formation. Here we show that blocking of ciliary neurotrophic factor (CNTF) with anti-CNTF antibodies after NSC transplant into spinal cord injury (SCI) resulted in a reduction of glial scar formation by 8 weeks. Treated animals had a wider distribution of transplanted NSC compared with the control animals. The NSC around the lesion coexpressed either nestin or markers for neurons, oligodendrocytes, or astrocytes. Approximately 20% fewer glial fibrillary acidic protein-positive/bromodeoxyuridine (BrdU)-positive cells were seen at 2, 4, and 8 weeks postgrafting, compared with the control animals. Furthermore, more CNPase(+)/BrdU(+) cells were detected in the treated group at 4 and 8 weeks. These CNPase(+) or Rip(+) mature oligodendrocytes were seen in close proximity to host corticospinal tract (CST) and 5HT(+) serotonergic axon. We also demonstrate that the number of regenerated CST fibers both at the lesion and at caudal sites in treated animals was significantly greater than that in the control animals at 8 weeks. We suggest that the blocking of CNTF at the beginning of SCI provides a more favorable environment for the differentiation of transplanted NSC and the regeneration of host axons.
Polycystin-1 (PC-1) has been identified as critical to development of the nervous system, but the significance of PC-1 expression in neurons remains undefined, and little is known of its roles outside the kidney, where mutation results in autosomal dominant polycystic kidney disease (ADPKD). In kidney, PC-1 interacts with cadherins, catenins, and its cognate calcium channel polycystin-2 (PC-2), which in turn interacts with a number of actin-regulatory proteins. Because some of the proteins that interact with PC-1 in kidney also participate in synaptic remodeling and plasticity in the hippocampus, we decided to test PC-1's potential to interact with a recently discovered type of plasticity-associated protein (homer 1a/Vesl-1S) in postnatal mouse hippocampus. Homer 1a/Vesl-1S is an activity-induced protein believed to participate in synaptic remodeling/plasticity responses to temporal lobe seizure and learning. Here we report the following. 1) PC-1 contains a homer-binding motif (PPxxF), which lies within its purported cytoplasmic domain. 2) Immunoreactivity for PC-1 (PC-1-ir) is highly colocalized with homer 1a immunoreactivity (H1a-ir) in primary cultured hippocampal neurons. 3) PC-1-ir and H1a-ir are present and appear to be colocalized in mouse hippocampus but not cortex on postnatal day 2 (P2), when higher frequencies of spontaneous activity are normal for hippocampus compared with cortex. 4) An endogenous PC-1-ir band with the correct size for the reported C-terminal G-protein-sensitive domain cleavage product of PC-1 (approximately 150 kDa) coimmunoprecipitates with endogenous homer 1/Vesl-1 proteins from mouse brain, suggesting that PC-1 can interact with homer 1/Vesl-1 proteins in postnatal hippocampal neurons.
Increasing rates of facial and cochlear nerve preservation after vestibular schwannoma surgery have been achieved in the last 30 years. However, the management of a partially or completely damaged facial nerve remains an important issue. In such a case, several immediate or delayed repair techniques have been used. On the basis of recent studies of successful end-to-side neurorrhaphy, the authors applied this technique in a patient with an anatomically preserved but partially injured facial nerve during vestibular schwannoma surgery. The authors interposed a sural nerve graft to reinforce the facial nerve whose partial anatomical continuity had been preserved. On follow-up examinations 18 months after surgery, satisfactory cosmetic results for facial nerve function were observed. The end-to-side interposed nerve graft appears to be a reasonable alternative in cases of partial facial nerve injury, and might be a future therapeutic option for other cranial nerve injuries.
Studies involving animal models of acute central nervous system (CNS) stroke and trauma strongly indicate that sex and/or hormonal status are important determinants of outcome after brain injury. The present study was undertaken to examine the ability of estradiol to protect hippocampal neurons from lateral fluid percussion brain injury. Sprague-Dawley female rats (211-285 g; n = 119) were ovariectomized, and a subset (n = 66) were implanted with 17beta-estradiol pellets to provide near physiological levels of estradiol. Animals were subjected to lateral fluid percussion brain injury or sham injury 1 week later. Activation of caspase-3 (n = 26) and TUNEL staining (n = 21) were assessed at 3 and 12 h after injury, respectively, in surviving control and estradiol-treated animals. Memory retention was examined using a Morris water maze test in a separate subset of animals (n = 43) at 8 days after injury. Activated caspase-3 and TUNEL staining were observed in the dentate hilus, granule cell layer, and CA3 regions in all injured rats, indicative of selective hippocampal cell apoptosis in the acute posttraumatic period. Estradiol did not significantly alter the number of hippocampal neurons exhibiting caspase-3 activity or TUNEL staining. Brain injury impaired cognitive ability, assessed at 1 week post-injury (p &lt; 0.001). However, estradiol at physiological levels did not significantly alter injury-induced loss of memory. These data indicate that estradiol at physiological levels does not ameliorate trauma-induced hippocampal injury or cognitive deficits in ovariectomized female rats.
Increased expression of the inducible and neuronal isoforms of nitric oxide synthase (NOS), and elevated concentrations of nitric oxide (NO) metabolites, are present within the central nervous system (CNS) following neurotrauma and are implicated in the pathogenesis of the accompanying neurologic deficits. We tested the hypothesis that elevated extracellular concentrations of NO introduced by the donor Spermine NONOate, induce reversible axonal conduction deficits in neurons of the guinea pig spinal cord. The compound action potential (CAP) and compound membrane potential (CMP) of excised ventral cord white matter were recorded before, during, and after bathing the tissue (30 min) in varying concentrations (0.25-3.0 mM) of Spermine NONOate. The principal results were a rapid onset, dose-dependent, reduction in amplitude of the CAP (p &lt; 0.05) accompanied by depolarization of the CMP during NO exposure. These effects were largely reversible on washout, at low concentration of the donor (0.5 mM), but were only partially reversed at higher concentrations. Changes in the electrophysiological properties were not evident when the donor had been a priori depleted of NO. The results extend previous reports that NO induces reversible axonal conduction deficits. They provide new evidence of dissociation of the effects of NO on CAP and CMP during washout, and after prolonged exposure to the donor. They add support to the emerging concept that immune-mediated axonal conduction failure contributes to reversible neurologic deficits following neurotrauma and aid in understanding clinical phenomena such as spinal shock and neurologic recovery.
Following contusive spinal cord injury (SCI), 50% of oligodendrocytes in the residual white matter are lost within 24 h. NG2-expressing cell proliferation is maximal 3 days after SCI, and may be the source of mature oligodendrocytes and astrocytes that chronically replace those that were lost. We studied NG2(+) cells dissociated from the 3-day injured spinal cord for comparison with those from uninjured adult and early postnatal cords. After 24 h in serum-containing medium, we performed patch clamp analysis and immunocytochemistry for NG2 in combination with nestin (progenitors), and A2B5, O4, and O1 (oligodendrocyte lineage markers). We observed an NG2(+)/A2B5-/O4-/O1- population in both adult preparations. More than double the normal number of NG2(+) cells was isolated from the injured cord, but OX42(+) microglia/macrophages were the predominant cell type after injury. Most cells isolated at P7 were NG2-/A2B5(+), whereas those from the normal adult were NG2(+)/A2B5-. NG2(+) cells after SCI displayed altered voltage-gated potassium current profiles compared to normal adult and P7 animals. Additionally, less than 25% of adult cells (normal and injured) responded to GABA and glutamate, compared to 100% of P7 cells. Our results indicate that the adult NG2(+) cell pool is antigenically and physiologically different than the early postnatal pool, and that contusive injury induces changes in adult NG2(+) cells.



Although mutations in the TP73 gene are extremely rare in human tumours, altered expression is common. In some tumours, most notably leukaemias and lymphomas, expression of TP73 is reduced, suggesting a tumour suppressor role. In contrast, TP73 is over-expressed in many other tumour types, implying that it has oncogenic functions in human tumourigenesis. These conflicting scenarios can be reconciled by the observations that the TP73 gene produces p53-like isoforms (TAp73) and anti-p53 isoforms (DeltaTAp73). Thus, loss of TAp73 or over-expression of DeltaTAp73 should each promote oncogenic transformation, and the balance of expression of the opposing isoforms is the crucial factor. The mechanisms that regulate expression of TP73 isoforms are therefore of great interest. Recent data provide evidence for interacting roles of ZEB1, p300, and a polymorphic 73 bp deletion in intron 1 of the human TP73 gene in this process. Importantly, alterations to the proposed regulatory pathway for controlling TP73 isoform expression in colorectal cancer are associated with adverse clinico-pathological characteristics. Because p73 is also associated with tumour chemosensitivity, these new findings should provide prognostic information and have the potential to guide future therapeutic decisions.
Theory and research dealing with self-regulation have focused primarily on instances of self-regulation that involve high levels of self-reflection and effortful self-control. However, intentionally trying to control one's behavior sometimes reduces the likelihood of achieving one's goals. This article examines the process of hypo-egoic self-regulation in which people relinquish deliberate, conscious control over their own behavior so that they will respond more naturally, spontaneously, or automatically. An examination of spontaneously occurring hypo-egoic states (such as flow, deindividuation, and transcendence) suggests that hypo-egoic states are characterized by lowered self-awareness and/or an increase in concrete and present-focused self-thoughts. In light of this, people may intentionally foster hypo-egoism via two pathways-(a) taking steps to reduce the proportion of time that they are self-aware (such as repeating a behavior until it is automatic or practicing meditation) or (b) increasing the concreteness of their self-thoughts (such as inducing a concrete mindset or practicing mindfulness). In this way, people may deliberately choose to regulate hypo-egoically when effortful control might be detrimental to their performance.
This article introduces the special issue of Journal of Personality on personality and self-regulation. The goal of the issue is to illustrate and inspire research that integrates personality and process-oriented accounts of self-regulation. The article begins by discussing the trait perspective on self-regulation--distinguishing between temperament and personality accounts--and the information-processing perspective. Three approaches to integrating these perspectives are then presented. These range from methodological approaches, in which constructs representing the two perspectives are examined in integrated statistical models, to conceptual approaches, in which the two perspectives are unified in a holistic theoretical model of self-regulation. The article concludes with an overview of the special issue contributions, which are organized in four sections: broad, integrative models of personality and self-regulation; models that examine the developmental origins of self-regulation and self-regulatory styles; focused programs of research that concern specific aspects or applications of self-regulation; and strategies for increasing the efficiency and effectiveness of self-regulation.
ATP-sensitive P2X(7) receptors are localized on cells of immunological origin including glial cells in the central nervous system. Activation of P2X(7) receptors leads to rapid changes in intracellular calcium concentrations, release of the proinflammatory cytokine interleukin-1beta (IL-1beta), and following prolonged agonist exposure, cytolytic plasma membrane pore formation. P2X(7) knockout mice show reduced inflammation as well as decreased nociceptive sensitivity following peripheral nerve injury. A-740003 (N-(1-{[(cyanoimino)(5-quinolinylamino) methyl] amino}-2,2-dimethylpropyl)-2-(3,4-dimethoxyphenyl)acetamide) is a novel competitive antagonist of P2X(7) receptors (IC(50) values = 40 nM for human and 18 nM for rat) as measured by agonist-stimulated changes in intracellular calcium concentrations. A-740003 showed weak or no activity (IC(50) &gt; 10 muM) at other P2 receptors and an array of other neurotransmitter and peptide receptors, ion channels, reuptake sites, and enzymes. A-740003 potently blocked agonist-evoked IL-1beta release (IC(50) = 156 nM) and pore formation (IC(50) = 92 nM) in differentiated human THP-1 cells. Systemic administration of A-740003 produced dose-dependent antinociception in a spinal nerve ligation model (ED(50) = 19 mg/kg i.p.) in the rat. A-740003 also attenuated tactile allodynia in two other models of neuropathic pain, chronic constriction injury of the sciatic nerve and vincristine-induced neuropathy. In addition, A-740003 effectively reduced thermal hyperalgesia observed following intraplantar administration of carrageenan or complete Freund's adjuvant (ED(50) = 38-54 mg/kg i.p.). A-740003 was ineffective in attenuating acute thermal nociception in normal rats and did not alter motor performance at analgesic doses. These data demonstrate that selective blockade of P2X(7) receptors in vivo produces significant antinociception in animal models of neuropathic and inflammatory pain.
Studies using mice with point mutations of GABA(A) receptor alpha subunits suggest that the sedative and anxiolytic properties of 1,4-benzodiazepines are mediated, respectively, by GABA(A) receptors bearing the alpha(1) and alpha(2) subunits. This hypothesis predicts that a compound with high efficacy at GABA(A) receptors containing the alpha(1) subunit would produce sedation, whereas an agonist acting at alpha(2) subunit-containing receptors (with low or null efficacy at alpha(1)-containing receptors) would be anxioselective. Electrophysiological studies using recombinant GABA(A) receptors expressed in Xenopus oocytes indicate that maximal potentiation of GABA-stimulated currents by the pyrazolo-[1,5-a]-pyrimidine, DOV 51892, at alpha(1)beta(2)gamma(2S) constructs of the GABA(A) receptor was significantly higher (148%) than diazepam. In contrast, DOV 51892 was considerably less efficacious and/or potent than diazepam in enhancing GABA-stimulated currents mediated by constructs containing alpha(2), alpha(3), or alpha(5) subunits. In vivo, DOV 51892 increased punished responding in the Vogel conflict test, an effect blocked by flumazenil, and increased the percentage of time spent in the open arms of the elevated plus-maze. However, DOV 51892 had no consistent effects on motor function or muscle relaxation at doses more than 1 order of magnitude greater than the minimal effective anxiolytic dose. Although the mutant mouse data predict that the high-efficacy potentiation of GABA(A1a) receptor-mediated currents by DOV 51892 would be sedating, behavioral studies demonstrate that DOV 51892 is anxioselective, indicating that GABA potentiation mediated by alpha(1) subunit-containing GABA(A) receptors may be neither the sole mechanism nor highly predictive of the sedative properties of benzodiazepine recognition site modulators.
The purpose of this study was to determine whether the selective cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) inhibitor rofecoxib [4-[4-(methylsulfonyl)phenyl]-3-phenyl-2(5H)-furanone] could effectively prevent hippocampal neuronal injury in an animal model of excitotoxic neurodegeneration. COX-2 protein levels increased between 3 and 6 h, peaked at 12 h, and declined to near baseline levels 24 h after injection of N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA; 18 nmol) into the CA1 region of the left hippocampus. Mice that were fed ad libitum a control rodent diet for 4 days before and 3 days after injection of NMDA demonstrated marked neuronal loss in the primary cell layers of the ipsilateral CA1, CA3, and dentate gyrus (50, 30, and 20% cell loss, respectively). This injury was potently and dose-dependently reduced by feeding animals a diet standardized to deliver 15 or 30 mg/kg rofecoxib per day. Neurodegeneration in the CA1 region was reduced by 30.1 +/- 5.6 and 51.5 +/- 9.0%, respectively; in the CA3 by 64.6 +/- 12.4 and 69.0 +/- 14.1%, respectively; and in the dentate gyrus by 47.8 +/- 15.2 and 58.0 +/- 18.2%, respectively. Moreover, rofecoxib chow slightly but significantly reduced injury-induced brain edema. These findings demonstrate that rofecoxib can ameliorate excitotoxic neuronal injury in vivo and, as such, may be a particularly promising pharmaceutical for the treatment of neurological diseases associated with overactivation of NMDA receptors.
The present study sought to determine the characteristics of ICI 182,780 (Faslodex) action in rat primary hippocampal neurons. We first investigated the neuroprotective efficacy of ICI 182,780 against neurodegenerative insults associated with Alzheimer's disease and related disorders. Dose-response analyses revealed that ICI 182,780, in a concentration-dependent manner, significantly promoted neuron survival following exposure to either excitotoxic glutamate (200 muM)- or beta-amyloid(1-42) (1.5 muM)-induced neurodegeneration of hippocampal neurons. At a clinically relevant concentration of 50 ng/ml, ICI 182,780 exerted nearly maximal neuroprotection against both insults with efficacy comparable with that induced by the endogenous estrogen 17beta-estradiol. Thereafter, we investigated the impact of 50 ng/ml ICI 182,780 on mechanisms of 17beta-estradiol-inducible neuronal plasticity and neuroprotection. Results of these analyses demonstrated that ICI 182,780 directly induced a series of rapid intracellular Ca(2+) concentration ([Ca(2+)](i)) oscillations in a pattern comparable with that of 17beta-estradiol. In addition, ICI 182,780 exerted dual regulation of the glutamate-induced rise in [Ca(2+)](i) identical to that induced by 17beta-estradiol. Further analyses demonstrated that ICI 182,780 induced significant activation of extracellular signal-regulated kinase 1/2 and Akt (protein kinase B) and significantly increased expression of spinophilin and Bcl-2, with efficacy comparable with neurons treated with 17beta-estradiol. Taken together, results of these in vitro analyses of ICI 182,780 provide direct evidence of an estrogenic agonist profile of ICI 182,780 action in rat hippocampal neurons. Therapeutic development of neuroselective estrogen receptor modulators that mimic ICI 182,780 is discussed with respect to the potential of safe and efficacious alternatives to estrogen therapy for the prevention of postmenopausal cognitive decline and late-onset Alzheimer's disease.
The main principle directing the development of supported dwellings for persons with long-term mental illness is that to live in the community would improve their quality of life. The aim of this study was to describe psychiatric nurses' experiences of different types of supported dwelling for persons with long-term mental illness, and their views on what they consider to be important principles to provide for in order to facilitate their social integration into the community. Nine psychiatric nurses were interviewed. A qualitative content analysis revealed 'attempting to uphold the principle, respect for the patient's right to self-determination' as the main theme, which was linked to three sub-themes: the nurses' view on their moral responsibility; the nurses' views on social norms that patients must follow in order to be accepted by their neighbours; and the nurses' views on supported dwelling of good quality. The nurses perceived that personal contact between the neighbour and the mentally ill person was one essential way to reduce fear of the mentally ill person. They viewed themselves as a link between the mentally ill person and other neighbours. Without the personal contact between the mentally ill person and the neighbours, there may be a risk that the integration will fail no matter how excellent the supported dwelling is framed.
To study dream content in patients with severe obstructive sleep apnea syndrome (OSAS) and its modification with Continuous Positive Airway Pressure (CPAP) therapy. We assessed twenty consecutive patients with severe OSAS and 17 healthy controls. Polysomnograms were recorded at baseline in patients and controls and during the CPAP titration night, 3 months after effective treatment and 2 years later in patients. Subjects were awakened 5-10 min after the beginning of the first and last rapid eye movement (REM) sleep periods and we measured percentage of dream recall, emotional content of the dream, word count, thematic units, sleep architecture and REM density. Dream recall in REM sleep was similar in patients at baseline and controls (51.5% versus 44.4% respectively; P = .421), decreased to 20% and 24.3% the first and third month CPAP nights, and increased to 39% 2 years later (P = 0.004). Violent/highly anxious dreams were only seen in patients at baseline. Word count was higher in patients than in controls. REM density was highest the first CPAP night. Severe OSAS patients recall dreams in REM sleep as often as controls, but their dreams have an increased emotional tone and are longer. Despite an increase in REM density, dream recall decreased the first months of CPAP and recovered 2 years later. Violent/highly anxious dreams disappeared with treatment. A dream recall decrease with CPAP is associated with normalization of sleep in OSAS patients.
Disrupted sleep and stress are often linked to each other, and considered as predisposing factors for psychopathologies such as depression. The depressed brain is associated with reduced serotonergic and enhanced cholinergic neurotransmission. In an earlier study, we showed that chronic sleep restriction by forced locomotion caused a gradual decrease in postsynaptic serotonin-1A receptor sensitivity, whilst chronic forced activity alone, with sufficient sleep time, did not affect receptor sensitivity. The first aim of the present study was to examine whether the sleep loss-induced change in receptor sensitivity is mediated by adrenal stress hormones. The results show that the serotonin-1A receptor desensitization is independent of adrenal hormones as it still occurs in adrenalectomized rats. The second aim of the study was to establish the effects of sleep restriction on cholinergic muscarinic receptor sensitivity. While sleep restriction affected muscarinic receptor sensitivity only slightly, forced activity significantly hypersensitized the muscarinic receptors. This hypersensitization is because of the stressful nature of the forced activity protocol as it did not occur in adrenalectomized rats. Taken together, these data confirm that sleep restriction may desensitize the serotonin-1A receptor system. This is not a generalized effect as sleep restriction did not affect the sensitivity of the muscarinic cholinergic receptor system, but the latter was hypersensitized by stress. Thus, chronic stress and sleep loss may, partly via different pathways, change the brain into a direction as it is seen in mood disorders.
The effect of sleep loss on reaction time (RT) performance varies as a function of age, with RTs of older subjects typically showing less decrement (relative to rested baseline) than those of younger subjects. In the current paper, we examined the nature of this relationship in a 7-day sleep restriction study. The number of repeated measures made it possible to model both intra-individual trajectories over days and individual differences in these trajectories. Results revealed (a) consistent individual differences in RT patterns over time after controlling for experimental design effects; (b) less cumulative RT decline among older individuals regardless of the degree of sleep restriction; and (c) consistent individual variability in performance patterns even after accounting for the effects of age.
Single-particle analysis is a structure determining method using electron microscopic (EM) images, which does not require protein crystal. In this method, projections are picked up and used to reconstruct a three-dimensional (3D) structure. When the conical tilting method is not available, the particle images are usually classified and averaged to improve the signal-to-noise ratio. The Euler angles of these average images must be posteriorically assigned to create a primary 3D model. We developed a new, fully automatic unsupervised Euler angle assignment method, which does not require an initial 3D reference and which is applicable to asymmetric molecules. In this method, the Euler angle of each average image is initially set randomly and then automatically corrected in relation to those of the other averages by iterated optimizations using the Simulated Annealing (SA) algorithm. At each iteration, the 3D structure is reconstructed based on the current Euler angles and reprojected back in the average-input directions. A modified cross-correlation between each reprojection and its corresponding original average is then calculated. The correlations are summed as a total 3D echo-correlation score to evaluate the Euler angles at this iteration. Then, one of the projections is selected, its Euler angle is changed randomly, and the score is also calculated. Based on the score change, judgment of whether to accept or reject the new angle is made using the SA algorithm, which is introduced to overcome the local minimums. After a certain number of iterations of this process, the angles of all averages converge so as to create a reliable primary 3D model. This echo-correlated 3D reconstruction with simulated annealing also has potential for wide application to general 3D reconstruction from various types of 2D images.

Behavioral and biochemical effects of low-level whole-body inhalation exposure to the chemical warfare nerve agent cyclosarin (GF) were evaluated. Sprague-Dawley rats were first trained on a variable-interval, 56-s (VI56) schedule of food reinforcement. The VI56 schedule specifies that a single lever press, following an average interval of 56 s, produces food reinforcement (i.e., a single food pellet). Subjects were then exposed to GF vapor at concentrations of 1.6-5.2 mg/m3, or air control, for 60 min. Following exposures, performance on the VI56 and acquisition and maintenance of a radial-arm maze (RAM) spatial memory task were evaluated during 55 test sessions over approximately 11 wk. GF exposures produced miosis in all subjects and other mild clinical signs of toxicity at the highest concentration. Convulsions were not observed in any subjects. GF exposures produced concentration-dependent decreases in acetylcholinesterase and butyrylcholinesterase activity. Additionally, blood assays revealed concentration-dependent levels of regenerated GF, thus verifying systemic exposure. The largest concentration of GF disrupted performance on the VI56 task. The deficit, however, resolved by the third postexposure test session. All subjects acquired, and maintained, performance on the RAM task, and no significant differences were seen as a result of GF exposure. No delayed effects from exposures were observed. These results demonstrate that, in rats, inhalation exposure to GF at levels below those producing convulsions and other severe clinical signs of toxicity may produce performance deficits on learned behaviors, but the deficits appear to not be persistent.

We have completed whole-genome scans for quantitative trait loci (QTLs) associated with acute ethanol-induced activation in the six F(2) intercrosses that can be formed from the C57BL/6J (B6), DBA/2J (D2) , BALB/cJ (C), and LP/J (LP) inbred strains. The goal was to test the hypothesis that given the relatively simple structure of the laboratory mouse genome, the same QTLs will be detected in multiple crosses which in turn will provide support for the strategy of multiple-cross mapping (MCM). QTLs with LOD scores greater than 4 were detected on Chrs 1, 2, 3, 8, 9, 13, 14, and 16. Only for the QTL on distal Chr 1 was there convincing evidence that the same or at least a very similar QTL was detected in multiple crosses. We also mapped the Chr 2 QTL directly in heterogeneous stock (HS) animals derived from the four inbred strains. At G(19) the QTL was mapped to an approximately 3-Mbp interval and this interval was associated with a haplotype block with a largely biallelic structure: B6-L:C-D2. We conclude that mapping in HS animals not only provides significantly greater QTL resolution, at least in some cases it provides significantly more information about the QTL haplotype structure.
We report a case of an adult who presented with progressive swelling in the right eye with suggestive of intracranial lesion on imaging. Histopathological revealed a lacrimal gland malignant mixed tumour.
Some categories of immigrants run an increased risk of suffering from schizophrenia Such vulnerability might be determined by virus infections, diabetes mellitus and obesity during pregnancy, racism, socio-economic disadvantage, a lack of social support/network, stressful events and alienating environments, culture shock (as in the cases of immigrants and refugees), technological dominance, lack of coping skills (wrong coping strategies), social-emotional adjustment and acculturation problems. The governments and mental health services of our civilized countries should prepare prevention and intervention programs that are geared to deal with the correlates and causes of schizophrenia in immigrants.


Neisseria meningitidis is the causative agent of epidemic meningococcal meningitis and septicaemia. Type IV pili are surface organelles that mediate a variety of functions, including adhesion, twitching motility, and competence for DNA binding and uptake in transformation. The secretin PilQ is required for type IV pilus expression at the cell surface, and forms a dodecameric cage-like macromolecular complex in the meningococcal outer membrane. PilQ-null mutants are devoid of surface pili, and prevailing evidence suggests that the PilQ complex facilitates extrusion and retraction of type IV pili across the outer membrane. Defining the orientation of the meningococcal PilQ complex in the membrane is a prerequisite for understanding the structure-function relationships of this important protein in pilus biology. In order to begin to define the topology of the PilQ complex in the outer membrane, polyhistidine insertions in N- and C-terminal regions of PilQ were constructed, and their subcellular locations examined. Notably, the insertion epitopes at residues 205 and 678 were located within the periplasm, whereas residue 656 was exposed at the outer surface of the outer membrane. Using electron microscopy with Ni-NTA gold labelling, it was demonstrated that the insertion at residue 205 within the N-terminus mapped to a site on the arm-like features of the 3D structure of the PilQ multimer. Interestingly, mutation of the same region gave rise to an increase in vancomycin permeability through the PilQ complex. The results yield novel information on the PilQ N-terminal location and function in the periplasm, and reveal a complex organization of the membrane-spanning secretin in vivo.

Secretory granules carrying fluorescent cargo proteins are widely used to study granule biogenesis, maturation, and regulated exocytosis. We fused the soluble secretory protein peptidylglycine alpha-hydroxylating monooxygenase (PHM) to green fluorescent protein (GFP) to study granule formation. When expressed in AtT-20 or GH3 cells, the PHM-GFP fusion protein partitioned from endogenous hormone (adrenocorticotropic hormone, growth hormone) into separate secretory granule pools. Both exogenous and endogenous granule proteins were stored and released in response to secretagogue. Importantly, we found that segregation of content proteins is not an artifact of overexpression nor peculiar to GFP-tagged proteins. Neither luminal acidification nor cholesterol-rich membrane microdomains play essential roles in soluble content protein segregation. Our data suggest that intrinsic biophysical properties of cargo proteins govern their differential sorting, with segregation occurring during the process of granule maturation. Proteins that can self-aggregate are likely to partition into separate granules, which can accommodate only a few thousand copies of any content protein; proteins that lack tertiary structure are more likely to distribute homogeneously into secretory granules. Therefore, a simple &quot;self-aggregation default&quot; theory may explain the little acknowledged, but commonly observed, tendency for both naturally occurring and exogenous content proteins to segregate from each other into distinct secretory granules.
Synaptotagmin I, a synaptic vesicle protein required for efficient synaptic transmission, contains a highly conserved polylysine motif necessary for function. Using Drosophila, we examined in which step of the synaptic vesicle cycle this motif functions. Polylysine motif mutants exhibited an apparent decreased Ca2+ affinity of release, and, at low Ca2+, an increased failure rate, increased facilitation, and increased augmentation, indicative of a decreased release probability. Disruption of Ca2+ binding, however, cannot account for all of the deficits in the mutants; rather, the decreased release probability is probably due to a disruption in the coupling of synaptotagmin to the release machinery. Mutants exhibited a major slowing of recovery from synaptic depression, which suggests that membrane trafficking before fusion is disrupted. The disrupted process is not endocytosis because the rate of FM 1-43 uptake was unchanged in the mutants, and the polylysine motif mutant synaptotagmin was able to rescue the synaptic vesicle depletion normally found in syt(null) mutants. Thus, the polylysine motif functions after endocytosis and before fusion. Finally, mutation of the polylysine motif inhibits the Ca2+-independent ability of synaptotagmin to accelerate SNARE (soluble N-ethylmaleimide-sensitive factor attachment protein receptor)-mediated fusion. Together, our results demonstrate that the polylysine motif is required for efficient Ca2+-independent docking and/or priming of synaptic vesicles in vivo.
During the onset and progression of atherosclerosis, the vascular smooth muscle cell (VSMC) phenotype changes from differentiated to dedifferentiated, and in some cases, this change is accompanied by osteogenic transition, resulting in vascular calcification. One characteristic of dedifferentiated VSMCs is the down-regulation of smooth muscle cell (SMC) marker gene expression. Bone morphogenetic proteins (BMPs), which are involved in the induction of osteogenic gene expression, are detected in calcified vasculature. In this study, we found that the BMP2-, BMP4-, and BMP6-induced expression of Msx transcription factors (Msx1 and Msx2) preceded the down-regulation of SMC marker expression in cultured differentiated VSMCs. Either Msx1 or Msx2 markedly reduced the myocardin-dependent promoter activities of SMC marker genes (SM22alpha and caldesmon). We further investigated interactions between Msx1 and myocardin/serum response factor (SRF)/CArG-box motif (cis element for SRF) using coimmunoprecipitation, gel-shift, and chromatin immunoprecipitation assays. Our results showed that Msx1 or Msx2 formed a ternary complex with SRF and myocardin and inhibited the binding of SRF or SRF/myocardin to the CArG-box motif, resulting in inhibition of their transcription.
Activation of microglia by LPS leads to an induction of cytokine and NO release, reduced proliferation and increased outward K(+) conductance, the latter involving the activation of Kv1.5 and Kv1.3 channels. We studied the role of these channels for microglial function using two strategies to interfere with channel expression, a Kv1.5 knockout (Kv1.5(-/-)) mouse and an antisense oligonucleotide (AO) approach. The LPS-induced NO release was reduced by AO Kv1.5 and completely absent in the Kv1.5(-/-) animal; the AO Kv1.3 had no effect. In contrast, proliferation was augmented with both, loss of Kv1.3 or Kv1.5 channel expression. After facial nerve lesion, proliferation rate was higher in Kv1.5(-/-) animals as compared to wild type. Patch clamp experiments confirmed the reduction of the LPS-induced outward current amplitude in Kv1.5(-/-) microglia as well as in Kv1.5- or Kv1.3 AO-treated cells. Our study indicates that induction of K(+) channel expression is a prerequisite for the full functional spectrum of microglial activation.
Recent studies reveal that a number of G protein-coupled receptors (GPCRs) and other proteins are expressed inefficiently at the site normally associated with their biological action. In the case of some GPCRs, large amounts of receptor (perhaps more than half) may be destroyed without ever binding ligand or even arriving at the plasma membrane. For the human GnRH receptor (GnRHR), this apparent inefficiency has evolved under strong and convergent evolutionary pressure. The result is a human GnRHR molecule that is delicately balanced between either expression at the plasma membrane (PM) or retention/degradation in the endoplasmic reticulum, an effect mediated by engagement with the cellular quality control system. This balance appears to be the reason that the human receptor, but not the rat or mouse counterpart (which are more robustly routed to the PM), is highly susceptible to single-point mutations that result in disease. A single change in net charge is sufficient to tip the balance in favor of the endoplasmic reticulum and diminish GnRHR available at the PM. The apparent paradox that results from observing convergent pressure for evolution of a receptor that is both inefficiently produced and highly susceptible to mutational disease suggests that this approach must offer a strong advantage. This review focuses on the evolved mechanisms and considers that this is an underappreciated mechanism by which the cell controls functional levels of receptors and other proteins at the posttranslational level.
Animal models in the field of addiction are considered to be among the best available models of neuropsychiatric disease. These models have undergone a number of refinements that allow deeper understanding of the circuitry involved in initiating drug seeking and relapse. Notably, the demonstrable involvement of classic corticostriatal habit circuitry and the engagement of prefrontal cortical circuits in extinction training may have relevance to the therapeutic modulation of habit circuitry and drug addiction in humans.
Sustained increases in intracellular calcium following prolonged seizures or other neurological insults have been thought to be responsible for neuronal cell death for well over two decades. For example, a seizure or a stroke can lead to excessive release of glutamate, an endogenous excitotoxin. Overactivation of receptors that interact with glutamate will raise calcium levels to stimulate a variety of signaling pathways that can impair neuronal respiration and eventually kill neurons. On the contrary, recent evidence shows that under numerous conditions calcium can prevent neurons from dying. Experimental epilepsy and ischemia models show that protection of neurons appears to depend upon the age of the animal, the amount and route of calcium elevation, timing of initial insults, and brain regions involved. This review will discuss novel findings on the protective signaling role of calcium under a wide range of pathological conditions.
Neurons, glia, and endothelial cells of the cerebral microvasculature co-exist in intimate proximity in nervous tissues, and their homeostatic interactions in health, as well as coordinated response to injury, have led to the concept that they form the basic elements of a functional neurovascular unit. During the course of normal cellular metabolism, growth, and development, each of these brain cell types secrete various species of potentially neurotoxic peptides and factors, events that increase in magnitude as brain cells age. This article reviews contemporary research on the secretory products of the three primary cell types that constitute the neurovascular unit in deep brain regions. We provide some novel in vitro data that illustrate potentially pathogenic paracrine effects within primary cells of the neurovascular unit. For example, the pro-inflammatory cytokine interleukin (IL)-1beta was found to stimulate amyloid-beta (Abeta) peptide release from human neural cells, and human brain microvessel endothelial cells exposed to transient hypoxia were found to secrete IL-1beta at concentrations known to induce Abeta42 peptide release from human neural cells. Hypoxia and excessive IL-1beta and Abeta42 abundance are typical pathogenic stress factors implicated in the initiation and development of common, chronic neurological disorders such as Alzheimer's disease. These data support the hypothesis that paracrine effects of stressed constituent cells of the neurovascular unit may contribute to &quot;spreading effects&quot; characteristic of progressive neurodegenerative disorders.
After the initial reports of free-floating cultures of neural stem cells termed neurospheres (1,2), a wide array of studies using this promising culture system emerged. In theory, this was a near-perfect system for large-scale production of neural cells for use in cell replacement therapies and to assay for and characterize neural stem cells. More than a decade later, after rigorous scrutiny and ample experimental testing of the neurosphere culture system, it has become apparent that the culture system suffers from several disadvantages, and its usefulness is limited for several applications. Nevertheless, the bulk of high-quality research produced over the last decade has also shown that under the right circumstances and for the appropriate purposes, neurospheres hold up to their initial promise. This article discusses the pros and cons of the neurosphere culture system regarding its three major applications: as an assay for neural stem cells, as a model system for neurogenesis and neural development, and for expansion of neural stem cells for transplantation purposes.
The effect of monoamine uptake inhibitor-type antidepressants on sodium channels of hippocampal neurons was investigated. Members of the tricyclic group of antidepressants are known to modify multiple targets, including sodium channels, whereas selective serotonin-reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) are regarded as highly selective compounds, and their effect on sodium channels was not investigated in detail. In this study, a representative member of each group was chosen: the tricyclic antidepressant desipramine and the SSRI fluoxetine. The drugs were roughly equipotent use-dependent inhibitors of sodium channels, with IC(50) values approximately 100 microM at -150 mV holding potential, and approximately 1 microM at -60 mV. We suggest that therapeutic concentrations of antidepressants affect neuronal information processing partly by direct, activity-dependent inhibition of sodium channels. As for the mechanism of inhibition, use-dependent inhibition by antidepressants was believed to be due to a preferential affinity to the fast-inactivated state. Using a voltage and perfusion protocol by which relative affinities to fast-versus slow-inactivated states could be assessed, we challenged this view and found that the affinity of both drugs to slowinactivated state(s) was higher. We propose a different mechanism of action for these antidepressants, in which slow rather than fast inactivation plays the dominant role. This mechanism is similar but not equivalent with the novel mechanism of usedependent sodium channel inhibition previously described by our group (Neuroscience 125:1019-1028, 2004; Neuroreport 14:1945-1949, 2003). Our results suggest that different drugs can produce use-dependent sodium channel inhibition by different mechanisms.
GABA(B) receptors are heterodimers of two subunits, GABA(B1) (GB1) and GABA(B2) (GB2). Agonists such as GABA and baclofen bind to the GB1 subunit only, whereas GB2 is essential for G protein activation. Positive allosteric modulators enhance the potency and efficacy of agonists at GABA(B) receptors and are of particular interest because they lack the sedative and muscle relaxant properties of agonists. In this study, we aimed to characterize the interaction of the positive modulator N,N'-dicyclopentyl-2-methylsulfanyl-5-nitro-pyrimidine-4,6-diamine (GS39783) with the GABA(B) receptor heterodimer. Using functional guanosine 5'-O-(3-[(35)S]thio)triphosphate binding assays, we observed positive modulation by GS39783 in different vertebrate species but not in Drosophila melanogaster. However, coexpression of D. melanogaster GB1 with rat GB2 yielded functional receptors positively modulated by GS39783. Together with data from rat/D. melanogaster GB2 subunit chimeras, this pointed to a critical role of the GB2 transmembrane region for positive modulation. We further characterized GS39783 function using point mutations. GS39783 positively modulated GABA responses but also showed considerable agonistic activity at heterodimers containing a mutant rat GB2 subunit with three amino acid substitutions in transmembrane domain VI. It was surprising that in contrast to wild-type rat GB2, this mutant subunit was also activated by GS39783 when expressed without GB1. The mutations of both G706T and A708P are necessary and sufficient for activation and identify a key region for the effect of GS39783 in the GB2 transmembrane region. Our data show that mutations of specific amino acids in GB2 can induce agonism in addition to positive modulation and facilitate GB2 activation in the absence of GB1.
The 150th birthday of Sigmund Freud has triggered widespread interest and media coverage on his unique contribution and impact on society. Recent evidence from neuroscience and advanced imaging technology has provided support for some of his major concepts including the unconscious and the key role of early life events. In this perspective, we attempt to write on his behalf an updated version of a Freudian way of thinking focused on the current high rates of obesity and depression.
A mutation in the DYT1 gene causes dominantly inherited childhood-onset primary dystonia, but intriguingly, only 30 to 40% of those who carry the mutation ever develop symptoms. We have used the unique model provided by this group of patients to investigate the hypothesis that abnormalities in brain plasticity underlie the pathophysiology of primary dystonia. We recruited 8 DYT1 gene carriers with dystonia, 6 DYT1 gene carriers without dystonia, 6 patients with sporadic primary dystonia (torticollis), and 10 healthy control subjects. Groups were age-matched. We compared the effect in these groups of subjects of repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation (rTMS) delivered to the motor cortex, by assessing changes in corticospinal excitability following rTMS. rTMS was given in the form of theta burst stimulation (TBS) using the inhibitory protocol &quot;cTBS&quot; (total of 300 pulses in 50-Hz bursts given every 5Hz). DYT1 gene carriers with dystonia and subjects with torticollis had a significantly prolonged response to rTMS in comparison with healthy subjects. In contrast, DYT1 gene carriers without dystonia had no significant response to rTMS. These data demonstrate an excessive response to an experimental &quot;plasticity probing protocol&quot; in subjects with dystonia, but a lack of response in genetically susceptible individuals who have not developed dystonia. These preliminary data suggest that the propensity to undergo plastic change may affect the development of symptoms in genetically susceptible individuals and that this may be an important mechanism in the pathogenesis of primary dystonia in general.
In this prospective study of 34 patients with Parkinson's disease, measurements of the short duration levodopa motor response have been performed in defined off states at 3 yearly intervals over a mean period of 11.4 years from the point of commencement of levodopa treatment. Twenty-two patients were still available for study; 10 had died and 2 were lost to follow-up. The levodopa motor response amplitude increases over the first 5 years of treatment, and thereafter, on and off scores worsen in parallel with conservation of the response. Patients who developed motor fluctuations within the first 5 years of treatment had, on average, a stronger response to levodopa with significantly better on phase motor function (P = 0.003). Although the proportion of &quot;midline&quot; motor disability (affecting gait, balance, and cranial motor function) increases with time, these deficits do not actually become unresponsive to levodopa. Patients who developed dementia had a significantly more rapid decline in motor function. The latest graph of serial scores for the whole cohort shows an upward curving or exponential increase in motor disability after the first decade of treatment. Applying a notional untreated disability line to this graph--an estimate of the disability that would have accrued if drugs had never been given--we suggest that the long-duration response to levodopa eventually runs down with disease progression.
Piribedil is a D2 dopamine agonist, which has been shown to improve symptoms of Parkinson's disease (PD) when combined with L-dopa. The objective of this study was to compare the efficacy of piribedil monotherapy to placebo in patients with early PD over a 7-month period. Four hundred and five early PD patients were randomized (double-blind) to piribedil (150-300 mg/day) or placebo. L-dopa open-label supplementation was permitted. Unified Parkinson Disease Rating Scale part III (UPDRS III) score as the last observation on monotherapy over 7 months was the primary outcome measure. Secondary outcomes were proportion of responders (UPDRS III improvement &gt; 30%), patients remaining on monotherapy after 7 months, UPDRS III subscores, and UPDRS II. UPDRS III improved on piribedil (-4.9 points) versus a worsening on placebo (2.6 points; estimated effect = 7.26 points; 95% CI = 5.38-9.14; P &lt; 0.0001). The proportion of responders was significantly higher for piribedil (42%) than for placebo (14%) (OR = 4.69; 95% CI = 2.82-7.80; P &lt; 0.001). Piribedil significantly improved several UPDRS III subscores. UPDRS II improved on piribedil by -1.2 points, while it deteriorated by 1.5 points on placebo (estimated effect = 2.71; 95% CI = 1.8-3.62; P &lt; 0.0001). The proportion of patients remaining on monotherapy after 7 months was greater in the piribedil group (OR = 3.72; 95% CI = 2.26-6.11; P &lt; 0.001). Safety was consistent with that reported for other dopamine agonists, gastrointestinal side effects being the most common (22% of patients in piribedil group vs. 14% on placebo). Piribedil is effective and safe as early PD therapy.
L-dopa remains the most common treatment for Parkinson's disease. However, there is considerable interest in D3/D2 receptor agonists such as the novel agent S32504, since they exert antiparkinsonian properties in the absence of dyskinesia. An important question concerns the roles of D2 vs. D3 receptors, an issue we addressed with the 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP)-lesioned nonhuman primate model of Parkinson's disease. In L-dopa-primed animals, S32504 (0.16-2.5 mg/kg p.o.) dose-dependently enhanced locomotor activity. This action was abolished by the D2 antagonist, L741,626 (2.5 mg/kg), but potentiated by the D3 antagonist, S33084 (0.63 mg/kg). Both antagonists were inactive alone. In drug-naive animals, a maximally effective dose of S32504 (2.5 mg/kg p.o.) displayed pronounced antiparkinsonian properties from the third day of administration, and its actions were expressed rapidly and durably. Thus, on day 33, antiparkinsonian properties of S32504 were apparent within 5 minutes and present for &gt; 4 hours. Moreover, they were associated with neither wearing off nor significant dyskinesia. In conclusion, the novel D3/D2 agonist S32504 may offer advantages over L-dopa in the treatment of newly diagnosed parkinsonian patients. Its actions are expressed primarily by activation of D2, not D3, receptors.
Parkinson's disease (PD) and related disorders are subcortical degenerations targeting the nigrostriatal dopaminergic system and basal ganglia. Traditionally, MRI has been used to detect structural and positron emission tomography and single emission computed tomography functional neurochemical and metabolic changes associated with these disorders. Recently, advances in diffusion-weighted MRI, ultrasonography, and radiotracer-based imaging have yielded greater sensitivity for revealing structural change and allowed detection of changes in brain dopamine levels after levodopa and during behavioral tasks. This review focuses on these recent advances in neuroimaging technology and their use for the diagnosis and assessment of PD and other parkinsonian disorders.
Disease specific quality of life was measured in the Leeds Multiple Sclerosis (MS) Treatment Programme (n = 210) using the self-report Leeds MS Quality of Life (LMSQoL) scale. The results showed a significant and sustained increase in quality of life associated with 'disease modifying' treatment. This contrasts with the Expanded Disability Status Scores (EDSS), which showed no measurable improvement. An increase in the LMSQoL score did not correlate with baseline age, disease duration, disability or number of prior relapses. There was no significant difference in treatment effect between relapsing-remitting and secondary progressive MS patients, or between patients receiving different products. However, patients with a poor quality of life at baseline showed the most benefit from treatment. Those who had their treatment stopped due to progression, side-effects or lack of effect had significantly lower LMSQoL scores on treatment. In this study, the LMSQoL scale was responsive to change and was easy to administer in a clinical setting.
We studied two extended families in which not only multiple sclerosis (MS) segregates, but also approximately 18% of the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) investigated blood relatives have 'MS immunopathic trait', an oligoclonal CSF immunopathy similar to that seen in MS, but with no neurological symptoms. Both families fit a genetic model for autosomal dominant inheritance for MS immunopathic trait, although with reduced penetrance in family A. In order to identify genetic factors of importance for the development of MS immunopathic trait, we performed a genome scan using the CHLC/Weber Screening Set (ver 6A), with 285 successful markers, to test the hypothesis that a single gene is causing the MS immunopathic trait in these families. Using a parametric method, we identified regions with suggestive linkage at chromosome 6q12 with a LOD-score of 2.4, putative linkage with LOD-score 1.5 at chromosome 6p21 (HLA region), putative linkage at chromosome 12q24 with a LOD-score of 1.7 and suggestive linkage at chromosome 19q13.2 with a LOD-score of 1.8. The LOD-score at chromosome 19q13.2 increased to 2.2 when only family A was analysed. In family A, all MS patients and two of five individuals with MS immunopathic trait had HLA DRB1*(15) and in family B, all blood relatives had the rare HLA type DRB1*0103, which is associated with other autoimmune diseases. We suggest that DRB1*0103 is a necessary but not sufficient condition for the susceptibility for MS immunopathic trait in this family.
Stiff-person syndrome (SPS) is a disorder characterized by progressive muscle rigidity with superimposed painful muscle spasms and gait impairment due to continuous motor activity. Evidence has accumulated in favor of SPS representing an autoimmune, predominantly encephalomyelopathic disorder resulting from B-cell-mediated clonal production of autoantibodies against presynaptic inhibitory epitopes on the enzyme glutamic acid decarboxylase (GAD) and the synaptic membrane protein amphiphysin. Recognition of the clinical spectrum of SPS is important, particularly the upper-limb, cervical, and cranial nerve involvement that occurs in paraneoplastic variants. The correlation between antibody levels and severity of disease offers evidence for a pathogenic role for the anti-GAD and anti-amphiphysin autoantibodies. The scarcity of neuropathological correlates stand in sharp contrast with the severity of the disability in affected individuals and suggests that functional impairment of inhibitory circuits without structural damage is sufficient to develop the full clinical spectrum of SPS. The rarity of this condition limits the feasibility of controlled clinical trials in the treatment of SPS, but the available evidence suggest that drugs that increase cortical and spinal inhibition such as benzodiazepines and drugs that provide immune modulation such as intravenous immunoglobulin, plasmapheresis, and prednisone are effective treatments.

Sensory systems are thought to use an internal copy of motor commands to determine which sensations are caused by the self versus the world. A new paper proves that an identified pathway performs this function for eye movements.
Cannabinoids impair hippocampus-dependent memory in both humans and animals, but the network mechanisms responsible for this effect are unknown. Here we show that the cannabinoids Delta(9)-tetrahydrocannabinol and CP55940 decreased the power of theta, gamma and ripple oscillations in the hippocampus of head-restrained and freely moving rats. These effects were blocked by a CB1 antagonist. The decrease in theta power correlated with memory impairment in a hippocampus-dependent task. By simultaneously recording from large populations of single units, we found that CP55940 severely disrupted the temporal coordination of cell assemblies in short time windows (&lt;100 ms) yet only marginally affected population firing rates of pyramidal cells and interneurons. The decreased power of local field potential oscillations correlated with reduced temporal synchrony but not with firing rate changes. We hypothesize that reduced spike timing coordination and the associated impairment of physiological oscillations are responsible for cannabinoid-induced memory deficits.
Bace1 is an endopeptidase that cleaves the amyloid precursor protein at the beta-secretase site. Apart from this cleavage, the functional importance of Bace1 in other physiological events is unknown. We show here that Bace1 regulates the process of myelination and myelin sheath thickness in the central and peripheral nerves. In Bace1-null mice, the process of myelination was delayed and myelin thickness was markedly reduced, indicating that genetic deletion of Bace1 causes hypomyelination. Bace1-null mice also showed altered neurological behaviors such as elevated pain sensitivity and reduced grip strength. Further mechanistic studies showed an altered neuregulin-Akt signaling pathway in Bace1-null mice. Full-length neuregulin-1 was increased and its cleavage product was decreased in the CNS of Bace1-null mice. Furthermore, phosphorylated Akt was also reduced. Based upon these and previous studies, we postulate that neuronally enriched Bace1 cleaves neuregulin-1 and that processed neuregulin-1 regulates myelination by means of phosphorylation of Akt in myelin-forming cells.
An influential concept in contemporary computational neuroscience is the reward prediction error hypothesis of phasic dopaminergic function. It maintains that midbrain dopaminergic neurons signal the occurrence of unpredicted reward, which is used in appetitive learning to reinforce existing actions that most often lead to reward. However, the availability of limited afferent sensory processing and the precise timing of dopaminergic signals suggest that they might instead have a central role in identifying which aspects of context and behavioural output are crucial in causing unpredicted events.
Atlases of the human brain have an important impact on neuroscience. The emergence of ever more sophisticated imaging techniques, brain mapping methods and analytical strategies has the potential to revolutionize the concept of the brain atlas. Atlases can now combine data describing multiple aspects of brain structure or function at different scales from different subjects, yielding a truly integrative and comprehensive description of this organ. These integrative approaches have provided significant impetus for the human brain mapping initiatives, and have important applications in health and disease.
Multiple sclerosis (MS) is the most common cause of neurological disability in young adults. Recent studies have implicated specific sodium channel isoforms as having an important role in several aspects of the pathophysiology of MS, including the restoration of impulse conduction after demyelination, axonal degeneration and the mistuning of Purkinje neurons that leads to cerebellar dysfunction. By manipulating the activity of these channels or their expression, it might be possible to develop new therapeutic approaches that will prevent or limit disability in MS.
A class of small, non-coding transcripts called microRNAs (miRNAs) that provide a crucial and pervasive layer of post-transcriptional gene regulation has recently emerged and become the focus of intense research. miRNAs are abundant in the nervous system, where they have key roles in development and are likely to be important mediators of plasticity. A highly conserved pathway of miRNA biogenesis is closely linked to the transport and translatability of mRNAs in neurons. Although there are nearly 500 known human miRNA sequences, each of only approximately 21 nucleotides, which bind to multiple mRNA targets, the accurate prediction of miRNA targets seems to lie just beyond our grasp. Nevertheless, the identification of such targets promises to provide new insights into many facets of neuronal function.
Desensitization is a universal feature of ligand-gated ion channels. Using the crystal structure of the GluR2 L483Y mutant channel as a guide, we attempted to build non-desensitizing kainate-subtype glutamate receptors. Success was achieved for GluR5, GluR6 and GluR7 with intermolecular disulfide cross-links but not by engineering the dimer interface. Crystallographic analysis of the GluR6 Y490C L752C dimer revealed relaxation from the active conformation, which functional studies reveal is not sufficient to trigger desensitization. The equivalent non-desensitizing cross-linked GluR2 mutant retained weak sensitivity to a positive allosteric modulator, which had no effect on GluR2 L483Y. These results establish that the active conformation of AMPA and kainate receptors is conserved and further show that their desensitization requires dimer rearrangements, that subtle structural differences account for their diverse functional properties and that the ligand-binding core dimer is a powerful regulator of ion-channel activity.
'Grid cells' in the dorsocaudal medial entorhinal cortex (dMEC) are activated when a rat is located at any of the vertices of a grid of equilateral triangles covering the environment. dMEC grid cells have different frequencies and phase offsets. However, cells in the dentate gyrus (DG) and hippocampal area CA3 of the rodent typically display place fields, where individual cells are active over only a single portion of the space. In a model of the hippocampus, we have shown that the connectivity from the entorhinal cortex to the dentate granule cells could allow the dentate granule cells to operate as a competitive network to recode their inputs to produce sparse orthogonal representations, and this includes spatial pattern separation. In this paper we show that the same computational hypothesis can account for the mapping of EC grid cells to dentate place cells. We show that the learning in the competitive network is an important part of the way in which the mapping can be achieved. We further show that incorporation of a short term memory trace into the associative learning can help to produce the relatively broad place fields found in the hippocampus.
A key issue is how networks in the brain learn to perform path integration, that is update a represented position using a velocity signal. Using head direction cells as an example, we show that a competitive network could self-organize to learn to respond to combinations of head direction and angular head rotation velocity. These combination cells can then be used to drive a continuous attractor network to the next head direction based on the incoming rotation signal. An associative synaptic modification rule with a short term memory trace enables preceding combination cell activity during training to be associated with the next position in the continuous attractor network. The network accounts for the presence of neurons found in the brain that respond to combinations of head direction and angular head rotation velocity. Analogous networks in the hippocampal system could self-organize to perform path integration of place and spatial view representations.
An outstanding problem in computational neuroscience is how to use population density function (PDF) methods to model neural networks with realistic synaptic kinetics in a computationally efficient manner. We explore an application of two-dimensional (2-D) PDF methods to simulating electrical activity in networks of excitatory integrate-and-fire neurons. We formulate a pair of coupled partial differential-integral equations describing the evolution of PDFs for neurons in non-refractory and refractory pools. The population firing rate is given by the total flux of probability across the threshold voltage. We use an operator-splitting method to reduce computation time. We report on speed and accuracy of PDF results and compare them to those from direct, Monte-Carlo simulations. We compute temporal frequency response functions for the transduction from the rate of postsynaptic input to population firing rate, and examine its dependence on background synaptic input rate. The behaviors in the1-D and 2-D cases--corresponding to instantaneous and non-instantaneous synaptic kinetics, respectively--differ markedly from those for a somewhat different transduction: from injected current input to population firing rate output (Brunel et al. 2001; Fourcaud &amp; Brunel 2002). We extend our method by adding inhibitory input, consider a 3-D to 2-D dimension reduction method, demonstrate its limitations, and suggest directions for future study.
Extensive animal studies indicate that the neuromodulator norepinephrine plays an important role in specific aspects of vigilance, attention and learning, putatively serving as a neural interrupt or reset function. The activity of norepinephrine-releasing neurons in the locus coeruleus during attentional tasks is modulated not only by the animal's level of engagement and the sensory inputs, but also by temporally rich aspects of internal decision-making processes. Here, we propose that it is unexpected changes in the world within the context of a task that activate the noradrenergic interrupt signal. We quantify this idea in a Bayesian model of a well-studied visual discrimination task, demonstrating that the model captures a rich repertoire of noradrenergic responses at the sub-second temporal resolution.
It is known that any dichotomy of {-1, 1}n can be learned (separated) with a higher-order neuron (polynomial function) with 2n inputs (monomials). In general, less than 2n monomials are sufficient to solve a given dichotomy. In spite of the efforts to develop algorithms for finding solutions with fewer monomials, there have been relatively fewer studies investigating maximum density (Pi(n)), the minimum number of monomials that would suffice to separate an arbitrary dichotomy of {-1, 1}n . This article derives a theoretical (upper) bound for this quantity, superseding previously known bounds. The main theorem here states that for any binary classification problem in {-1, 1}n (n &gt; 1), one can always find a polynomial function solution with 2n -2n/4 or fewer monomials. In particular, any dichotomy of {-1, 1}n can be learned by a higher-order neuron with a fan-in of 2n -2n/4 or less. With this result, for the first time, a deterministic ratio bound independent of n is established as Pi(n)/2n &lt; or = 0 75. The main theorem is constructive, so it provides a deterministic algorithm for achieving the theoretical result. The study presented provides the basic mathematical tools and forms the basis for further analyses that may have implications for neural computation mechanisms employed in the cerebral cortex.
We examined the blood-brain barrier (BBB) function in methylazoxymethanol acetate (MAM)-treated rats, a model of human developmental brain malformations. We found aberrant vessels morphology and serum albumin leakage in the heterotopic (malformed) hippocampus; these changes were associated with a significant increase in endothelial P-glycoprotein (P-gp) expression. Seizures exacerbated BBB leakage and greatly augmented P-gp expression in vessels and additionally in perivascular/parenchymal astrocytes. The effects of seizures were observed to a much larger extent in malformed than in normal brain tissue. The intrinsic changes in BBB function in MAM-exposed rats were associated with increased blood-to-brain penetration of ondansetron, a P-gp substrate. However, a marked reduction in drug brain levels was provoked by seizures, and this effect was reversed by selective blockade of P-gp activity with tariquidar. Changes in BBB function may critically contribute to determine the brain uptake and distribution of P-gp substrates in epileptic tissue associated with developmental malformations.
Previously, uridine pro-drug 2',3',5'-tri-O-acetyluridine (PN401) was shown to be protective in the mitochondrial complex II inhibitor 3-nitropropionic acid model of Huntington's disease (HD). In this study, PN401 increased survival and improved motor function on the rotarod in both R6/2 and N171-82Q polyglutamine repeat mouse models of HD. PN401 significantly decreased neurodegeneration in both the piriform cortex and striatum although PN401 decreased huntingtin protein aggregates only in the striatum. Cortical and striatal brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) protein levels were reduced in the +/- compared to the -/- N171-82Q mice and PN401 treatment significantly increased cortical BDNF in both +/- and -/- mice, but PN401 did not affect striatal BDNF. These results suggest that PN401 may have beneficial effects in the treatment of neurodegenerative diseases such as HD.
The aim of this study was to determine whether a combination of olfactory ensheathing cell (OEC) graft with the administration of FK506, two experimental approaches that have been previously reported to exert protective/regenerative effects after spinal cord injury, promotes synergic restorative effects after complete or partial spinal cord injuries. In partial spinal cord injury, combination of an OEC graft and FK506 reduced functional deficits evaluated by the BBB score, motor-evoked potentials (MEPs) and H reflex tests, diminished cavitation, astrogliosis and increased sparing/regeneration of raphespinal fibers compared to untreated and single-treatment groups of rats. After complete spinal cord transection, the combined treatment significantly improved functional outcomes, promoted axonal regeneration caudal to the lesion, and diminished astrogliosis compared only to non-transplanted animals. Slightly, but non-significant, better functional and histological results were found in OEC-grafted animals treated with FK506 than in those given saline after spinal cord transection. Nevertheless, the combined treatment increased the percentage of rats that recovered MEPs and promoted a significant reduction in astrogliosis. In conclusion, this study demonstrates that OEC grafts combined with FK506 promote additive repair of spinal cord injuries to those exerted by single treatments, the effect being more remarkable when the spinal cord is partially lesioned.
Five patients with chronic aphasia underwent functional imaging using magnetoencephalography (MEG) before and after constraint-induced language therapy (CILT). Patients who responded well to CILT exhibited a greater degree of late MEG activation in posterior language areas of the left hemisphere and homotopic areas of the right hemisphere prior to therapy than those who did not respond well. Response to CILT, however, was positively correlated with the degree of pre-therapy MEG activity within posterior areas of the right hemisphere only on an individual basis.
In the present in situ hybridization and immunocytochemical studies in the mouse central nervous system (CNS), a strong expression of spastin mRNA and protein was found in Purkinje cells and dentate nucleus in the cerebellum, in hippocampal principal cells and hilar neurons, in amygdala, substantia nigra, striatum, in the motor nuclei of the cranial nerves and in different layers of the cerebral cortex except piriform and entorhinal cortices where only neurons in layer II were strongly stained. Spastin protein and mRNA were weakly expressed in most of the thalamic nuclei. In selected human brain regions such as the cerebral cortex, cerebellum, hippocampus, amygdala, substania nigra and striatum, similar results were obtained. Electron microscopy showed spastin immunopositive staining in the cytoplasma, dendrites, axon terminals and nucleus. In the mouse pilocarpine model of status epilepticus and subsequent temporal lobe epilepsy, spastin expression disappeared in hilar neurons as early as at 2h during pilocarpine induced status epilepticus, and never recovered. At 7 days and 2 months after pilocarpine induced status epilepticus, spastin expression was down-regulated in granule cells in the dentate gyrus, but induced expression was found in reactive astrocytes. The demonstration of widespread distribution of spastin in functionally different brain regions in the present study may provide neuroanatomical basis to explain why different neurological, psychological disorders and cognitive impairment occur in patients with spastin mutation. Down-regulation or loss of spastin expression in hilar neurons may be related to their degeneration and may therefore initiate epileptogenetic events, leading to temporal lobe epilepsy.
A sequence for the fast acquisition of T1 weighted structural brain images with whole brain coverage and isotropic resolution of 1mm is presented. It is based on MDEFT with a FLASH-EPI hybrid readout. Several techniques for artefact suppression are implemented, like echo time shifting, asymmetric k-space sampling, and navigator echo acquisition. It is shown experimentally that the hybrid MDEFT sequence with a total duration of 8min yields approximately the same signal-to-noise and contrast-to-noise ratios as a 12min standard MDEFT sequence based on a FLASH readout. Further experiments show that echo time shifting suppresses artefacts in the vicinity of the scalp and in areas suffering from field inhomogeneities and that the concept of asymmetric k-space sampling reduces the susceptibility to head movement.

We report two patients of diabetic nonketotic hyperosmolar state presenting acutely with &quot;self-limiting hemichorea - hemiballismus&quot; and &quot;generalized convulsive status epilepticus&quot;. CT scan in both the patients revealed a hyperdense nonenhancing basal ganglia. Magnetic resonance imaging brain of patient 1 showed it to be hyperintense on T1W image and iso-hyper intense on T2W image, minimally enhancing with contrast injection.
We describe a 60-year-old woman with &quot;probable&quot; sporadic Creutzfeldt-Jacob disease (CJD) who manifested with two months history of rapidly progressive dementia and abnormal behavior, speech and gait abnormality, excessive sleepiness and myoclonic jerks. Scalp EEG showed diffuse slowing of background activity to delta range and triphasic sharp wave complexes occurring periodically twice in one-second interval. Magnetic resonance Imaging (MRI) of brain revealed high signal intensity on T2 weighted image (T2WI) and fluid attenuated inversion recovery sequences in the caudate and putamen bilaterally. Diffusion weighted images showed bilateral symmetric hyperintense signals in the caudate and putamen. The role of MRI in the diagnosis of CJD is discussed.


In this study, a series of tests exploring long-term verbal memory (the Short Story Test), attention (a modified version of Attentional Matrices and the Trail Making Test) and frontal functions (a modified version of the Frontal Assessment Battery) have been standardised on an Italian population of 283 children aged 5-14. Raw scores for each test have been adjusted for a series of variables (child's age, years of parents' education, handedness, gender) and transformed in equivalent scores enabling direct comparison across measures. This study was promoted by LICE (the Italian League Against Epilepsy) in order to provide Italian instruments standardised on the developmental age population and to study some of the most frequently impaired cognitive functions in epilepsy.
CART peptide is a peptidergic neurotransmitter that is expressed in brain regions involved in critical biological processes such as feeding and stress, and in areas associated with drug reward and abuse including the dopamine-rich nucleus accumbens (NAcc), which can be considered part of the basal ganglia. Because CART has been shown to colocalize with substance P, a marker of the basal ganglia direct pathway, we now test for colocalization with other markers of the direct pathway to determine if CART colocalizes with dynorphin and dopamine D1 receptors. In the NAcc, CART peptide immunoreactivity (IR) was colocalized with prodynorphin-IR in neurons. Approximately 80.1% of CART-IR cells colocalized with prodynorphin-IR, while only 27.6% of prodynorphin-IR neurons contained CART-IR, suggesting that CART cells are a subset of dynorphin cells. In contrast, only about 25% of CART-IR cell bodies demonstrated dopamine D1 receptor-IR. Because dynorphin and D1 receptors are markers for the basal ganglia direct pathway, from the NAcc to the basal ganglia output nuclei, and because CART significantly colocalizes with these markers, some CART neurons are part of the direct pathway or some comparable pathway in the accumbens. The presence of CART in NAcc neurons and the fact that NAcc projection neurons have extensive local collaterals suggest that CART may have effects in both terminal and cell body regions of the accumbens and may therefore affect information processing in the NAcc by modulating accumbal neurons.
Ethanol (EtOH) is known to alter neuronal physiology, but much less is known about the actions of this drug on glial function. To this end, we examined acute effects of ethanol on resting and voltage-activated membrane currents in striatal astrocytes using rat brain slices. Ten minutes exposure to 50mM EtOH reduced slope conductance by 20%, increased input resistance by 25% and decreased capacitance by 38% but did not affect resting membrane potential. Current generated by a hyperpolarizing pulse was inhibited in a concentration dependent manner in passive astrocytes, while no significant EtOH effect was observed in complex astrocytes or neurons. The EtOH effect was blocked when intracellular KCl was replaced with CsCl, but not during chelation of intracellular calcium with BAPTA. During blockage of gap junction coupling with high intracellular CaCl(2) or extracellular carbenoxolone the EtOH effect persisted but was reduced. Interestingly, EtOH effects were largely irreversible when gap junctions were open, but were fully reversible when gap junctions were closed. Ethanol also reduced the spread to other cells of Lucifer Yellow dye from individual glia filled via the patch pipette. These data suggest that EtOH inhibits a calcium-insensitive potassium channel, most likely a passive potassium channel, but also affects gap junction coupling in a way that is sustained after ethanol withdrawal. Astrocytes play a critical role in brain potassium homeostasis, and therefore EtOH effects on astrocytic function could influence neuronal activity.
Antipsychotic drugs have been used effectively for the treatment of schizophrenia symptoms, but they are often associated with metabolic side effects such as weight gain and endocrine disruptions. To investigate the possible mechanisms of antipsychotic-induced metabolic effects, we studied the impact of chronic administration of a typical antipsychotic drug (haloperidol) and an atypical antipsychotic (risperidone) to male rats on food intake, body weight, adiposity, and the circulating concentrations of hormones and metabolites that can influence energy homeostasis. Chronic (28days) haloperidol administration had no effect on food intake, weight gain or adiposity in male rats, whereas risperidone treatment resulted in a transient reduction in food intake and significantly reduced body weight gain compared to vehicle-treated control rats. Whereas neither antipsychotic had any effect on serum lipid profiles, glucose tolerance or the circulating concentrations of hormones controlled by the hypothalamo-pituitary-thyroid (free T4), -adrenal (corticosterone), -somatotropic (IGF-1), or -gonadotropic axes (testosterone), haloperidol increased circulating insulin levels and risperidone increased serum glucagon levels. This finding suggests that haloperidol or risperidone induce distinct metabolic effects. Since metabolic disorders such as obesity and type 2 diabetes mellitus represent serious health issues, understanding antipsychotic-induced endocrine and metabolic effects may ultimately allow better control of these side effects.
Few studies have attempted direct cognitive remediation of attention deficits in attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD). The present study investigated the efficacy of periodic non-informative alerting cues for improving sustaining attention in ADHD. This technique is known to improve sustained attention in right frontal injury patients and may be effective in ADHD, given that this disorder has also been linked with right frontal dysfunction. Fifteen children with ADHD and 15 matched controls completed four blocks of a modified version of the Sustained Attention to Response Task (SART). Eight random non-contingent alerts were introduced on two of these blocks as a cue for participants to adopt a more supervisory stance to their performance. While the alerting cues did not alter the total number of commission errors committed by ADHD children over a task block, they did produce a significant short-term reduction in commission errors in the period immediately following an alerting cue. Our data demonstrate that sustained attention performance can be enhanced in children with ADHD using a simple cognitive training strategy. Methods from the field of cognitive rehabilitation may be viably applied to the remediation of attention deficits in ADHD.


The goal of the present study was to develop and validate an animal model of unlimited access to intravenous heroin self-administration combined with responding for food and water to characterize the transition to drug dependence. Male Wistar rats were allowed to lever press for heroin (60 microg/kg/0.1 ml infusion/s; fixed ratio 1; 20-s time out) and nosepoke for food and water in consecutive, daily 23-h sessions. Daily heroin intake increased over days, reaching significance by Day 14. Drug-taking increased across the circadian cycle, reflected as increases in both the nocturnal peak and diurnal nadir of heroin intake. Changes in the circadian pattern of food intake and meal patterning preceded and paralleled the changes in heroin intake. By Day 7, the circadian amplitude of feeding was blunted. Nocturnal intake decreased because rats consumed smaller and briefer meals. Diurnal intake increased due to increased meal frequency, whereas total daily food intake decreased. To control for time or experience in the self-administration boxes as a possible confound, rats with saline (no drug) tethers were tested and did not display significant changes in food intake pattern. Body weight gain slowed slightly in heroin rats relative to saline controls. Separate groups of rats revealed that significant physical dependence as measured by physical signs of opiate withdrawal following a naloxone injection (1.0 mg/kg, subcutaneous (s.c.)) was reached by Day 14. Significant increases in heroin intake could be produced using low doses of naloxone (0.003-0.03 mg/kg, s.c.) on days 28-31 of heroin access. After 6 weeks of heroin self-administration, rats injected with buprenorphine (0, 0.01, 0.04, and 0.2 mg/kg, s.c.) showed a dose-dependent reduction in heroin intake. Changes in the pattern of drug and food intake in the present unlimited heroin access model may serve as independent motivational markers for the transition to a drug-dependent state.
The ability of cocaine to produce lasting neural adaptations in mesocorticolimbic brain regions is thought to promote drug seeking and facilitate addiction in humans. The Ras-controlled Raf-MEK-ERK protein kinase signaling cascade has been implicated in the behavioral and neurobiological actions of cocaine in animals. However, these pharmacological studies have not been able to determine the specific role of the two predominant isoforms of ERK (ERK1 and ERK2) in these processes. We report here that deletion of the ERK1 isoform, which leads to increased ERK2 stimulus-dependent signaling, facilitates the development of cocaine-induced psychomotor sensitization and the acquisition of a cocaine conditioned place preference. Conversely, pharmacological blockade of ERK signaling attenuates the development of psychomotor sensitization to cocaine. Finally, cocaine-evoked gene expression in mesocorticolimbic brain regions is potentiated in ERK1-deficient mice. Thus, alterations in ERK signaling influence both the neurobiological impact of cocaine and its ability to produce enduring forms of drug experience-dependent behavioral plasticity. Our results suggest that enhanced ERK2 signaling following repeated drug exposure may facilitate the development of forms of cocaine-induced plasticity that contribute to addiction.
We investigated axosomatic synapses of anterior horn cells of transgenic (TG) mice expressing mutant P301L human tau and non-transgenic (NTG) mice using electron microscopic methods to demonstrate the relationship between neurofibrillary tangles (NFTs) and synaptic alterations. Animals aged 3.5-8.5 months were used because at this age many motor neurons in TG mice have NFTs. We measured the perimeter of anterior horn cell perikarya, the number of boutons and total length of boutons in contact with the neuronal perikarya from the micrographs of NFT and non-NFT-bearing neurons. We also calculated the proportion of the perimeter covered by boutons, density of boutons and mean size of boutons. The density of synaptic boutons in contact with NFT-bearing neurons was significantly decreased compared to non-NFT-bearing neurons. These findings suggest that synaptic reduction occurs during neurofibrillary degeneration and is probably associated with NFT. In addition, synaptic boutons were detached from NFT-bearing neurons with the resulting space occupied by astrocytic processes, suggesting that astrocytes may be involved in the observed synaptic alterations.
In the search for anisotropies that might contribute to a directional preference of direction-selective (DS) retinal ganglion cells (RGCs), we studied the distributions of AMPA receptor subtypes GluR1, GluR2/3, and GluR4 upon the dendritic arbors of DS RGCs of the rabbit with antibody immunocytochemistry. DS RGCs were injected with Lucifer yellow and the cells were identified by their characteristic morphology. The double-labeled images of dendrites and receptors were visualized by confocal microscopy and were reconstructed from high-resolution confocal images. We found no evidence of asymmetry in any of the AMPA receptor subunits examined upon the dendritic arbors of both On and Off layers of DS RGCs. The present results indicate that direction selectivity appears to lie in presynaptic pattern.
Reflex blinking provides a useful experimental tool for various functional studies on the peripheral and central nervous system, yet the neuronal circuitry underlying this reflex is not precisely known. In the present study, we investigated as to whether neurons in the reticular formation and rostral cervical spinal cord (C1) may be involved in the blink reflex in rats. To this end we investigated c-Fos expression in these areas following supraorbital nerve stimulation combined with retrograde tracing of gold conjugated horse radish peroxidase (Gold-HRP) from the superior colliculus. We observed many double labeled neurons in the parvocellular reticular nucleus, medullary reticular formation, and laminae IV and V of C1. Thus, these brain regions contain neurons that may be involved in blink reflexes as well as eye movements, because they both can be activated following peri-orbital stimulation and project to the superior colliculus. Consequently, we suggest that the medullary reticular formation and C1 region play a central role in the coordination of eye and eyelid movements during reflex blinking.
Myasthenia gravis can be induced in mice by injecting the extracellular domain of rat muscle-specific kinase (MuSK), a transmembrane receptor tyrosine kinase involved in agrin signaling at the neuromuscular junction. About 5-10% of human myasthenia gravis patients have autoantibodies against MuSK. Here we have examined mouse neuromuscular junctions following MuSK immunization in two groups of muscles that can be distinguished on the basis of the timing of neuromuscular synaptogenesis and their response to perturbation of agrin signaling. We used confocal microscopy to characterize the distribution and expression of nicotinic acetylcoline receptors and of two presynaptic makers, neurofilament protein and synaptophysin. We observed disruption of neuromuscular junctions in all muscles examined in this model of myasthenia gravis. However delayed-synapsing muscles, including the diaphragm, sternomastoid and tibialis posterior, were significantly more severely affected than fast-synapsing muscles, including the intercostal, adductor longus and tibialis anterior. These results suggest a basis for the differential susceptibility of muscles in different classes of myasthenia gravis patients, including patients with autoantibodies against MuSK.
The effect of spinal cord injury (SCI) on the expression levels and distribution of water channel aquaporin 4 (AQP4) has not been studied. We have found AQP4 in gray and white matter astrocytes in both uninjured and injured rat spinal cords. AQP4 was detected in astrocytic processes that were tightly surrounding neurons and blood vessels, but more robustly in glia limitans externa and interna, which were forming an interface between spinal cord parenchyma and cerebrospinal fluid (CSF). Such spatial distribution of AQP4 suggests a critical role that astrocytes expressing AQP4 play in the transport of water from blood/CSF to spinal cord parenchyma and vice versa. SCI induced biphasic changes in astrocytic AQP4 levels, including its early down-regulation and subsequent persistent up-regulation. However, changes in AQP4 expression did not correlate well with the onset and magnitude of astrocytic activation, when measured as changes in GFAP expression levels. It appears that reactive astrocytes began expressing increased levels of AQP4 after migrating to the wound area (thoracic region) two weeks after SCI, and AQP4 remained significantly elevated for months after SCI. We also showed that increased levels of AQP4 spread away from the lesion site to cervical and lumbar segments, but only in chronically injured spinal cords. Although overall AQP4 expression levels increased in chronically-injured spinal cords, AQP4 immunolabeling in astrocytic processes forming glia limitans externa was decreased, which may indicate impaired water transport through glia limitans externa. Finally, we also showed that SCI-induced changes in AQP4 protein levels correlate, both temporally and spatially, with persistent increases in water content in acutely and chronically injured spinal cords. Although correlative, this finding suggests a possible link between AQP4 and impaired water transport/edema/syringomyelia in contused spinal cords.
The molecular basis of high versus low frequency hearing loss and the differences in the sensitivity of outer hair cells depending on their cochlear localization are currently not understood. Here we demonstrate the existence of two different outer hair cell phenotypes along the cochlear axis. Outer hair cells in low frequency regions exhibit early sensitivity for loss of Ca(v)1.3 (alpha1 subunit 1.3 forming the class D L-type voltage-gated Ca(2+) channel), while high frequency regions display a progressive susceptibility for loss of the Ca(2+)-activated large conductance K(+) (BK) channel. Despite deafness, young Ca(v)1.3-deficient mice displayed distortion-product otoacoustic emissions (DPOAEs), indicating functional outer hair cells in the higher frequency range of the cochlea. Considering that DPOAEs are also found in the human deafness syndrome DFNB9 caused by mutations in the synaptic vesicle protein otoferlin, we tested the expression of otoferlin in outer hair cells. Surprisingly, otoferlin showed a distinct tonotopic expression pattern at both the mRNA and protein level. Otoferlin-expressing, Ca(v)1.3 deletion-sensitive outer hair cells in the low frequency range could be clearly separated from otoferlin-negative, BK deletion-sensitive outer hair cells in the high frequency range. In addition, BK deletion led to a higher noise vulnerability in low frequency regions, which are normally unaffected by the BK deletion alone, suggesting that BK currents are involved in survival mechanisms of outer hair cells under noise conditions. Our findings propose new mechanisms and candidate genes for explaining high and low frequency hearing loss.
GABA and glutamate, the main transmitters in the basal ganglia, exert their effects through ionotropic and metabotropic receptors. The dynamic activation of these receptors in response to released neurotransmitter depends, among other factors, on their precise localization in relation to corresponding synapses. The use of high resolution quantitative electron microscope immunocytochemical techniques has provided in-depth description of the subcellular and subsynaptic localization of these receptors in the CNS. In this article, we review recent findings on the ultrastructural localization of GABA and glutamate receptors and transporters in monkey and rat basal ganglia, at synaptic, extrasynaptic and presynaptic sites. The anatomical evidence supports numerous potential locations for receptor-neurotransmitter interactions, and raises important questions regarding mechanisms of activation and function of synaptic versus extrasynaptic receptors in the basal ganglia.
The transcription factor Sox11 is expressed at high levels in developing sensory neurons and injured adult neurons but little is known about its transcriptional targets and function. In this study we examined the role of Sox11 using Neuro2a neuroblastoma cells and cultured mouse dorsal root ganglia (DRG) neurons. Results show Sox11 has an essential role in regulation of neuron survival and neurite outgrowth in Neuro2a cells and primary sensory neurons. Neuro2a cells increase expression of Sox11 as they differentiate in culture. Following addition of 20 microM retinoic acid (RA), a stimulus for differentiation that enhances neurite growth and differentiation, Sox11 level rises. RNAi-mediated knockdown of Sox11 in RA-differentiated Neuro2a cells caused a decrease in neurite growth and an increase in the percent of apoptotic cells. RNA expression analysis showed that Sox11 knockdown modulated the level of mRNAs encoding several genes related to cell survival and death. Further validation in the Neuro2a model showed Sox11 knockdown increased expression of the pro-apoptotic gene BNIP3 (BclII interacting protein 1 NIP3) and decreased expression of the anti-apoptotic gene TANK (TNF receptor-associated factor family member-associated NFkappaB activator). Cultured primary DRG neurons also express Sox11 and treatment with Sox11 small interfering RNA (siRNA) caused a significant decrease in neurite growth and branching and a decrease in mRNA encoding actin-related protein complex 3 (Arpc3), an actin organizing protein that may be involved in axon growth. The percent of apoptotic neurons also increased in cultures of DRG neurons treated with Sox11 siRNA. Similar to Neuro2a cells, a decrease in TANK gene expression occurred, suggesting at least some overlap in Sox11 transcriptional targets in Neuro2a and DRG neurons. These data are consistent with a central role for Sox11 in regulating events that promote neurite growth and neuron survival.
Objective. Can quantitative electroencephalography (EEG) predict the conversion from mild cognitive impairment (MCI) to Alzheimer's disease (AD)? Methods. Sixty-nine subjects fulfilling criteria for MCI were enrolled; cortical connectivity (spectral coherence) and (low resolution brain electromagnetic tomography) sources of EEG rhythms (delta=2-4 Hz; theta=4-8 Hz; alpha 1=8-10.5 Hz; alpha 2=10.5-13 Hz: beta 1=13-20 Hz; beta 2=20-30 Hz; and gamma=30-40) were evaluated at baseline (time of MCI diagnosis) and follow up (about 14 months later). At follow-up, 45 subjects were still MCI (MCI Stable) and 24 subjects were converted to AD (MCI Converted). Results. At baseline, fronto-parietal midline coherence as well as delta (temporal), theta (parietal, occipital and temporal), and alpha 1 (central, parietal, occipital, temporal, limbic) sources were stronger in MCI Converted than stable subjects (P&lt;0.05). Cox regression modeling showed low midline coherence and weak temporal source associated with 10% annual rate AD conversion, while this rate increased up to 40% and 60% when strong temporal delta source and high midline gamma coherence were observed respectively. Interpretation. Low-cost and diffuse computerized EEG techniques are able to statistically predict MCI to AD conversion.
This study examined the relationship between expression of neurotrophin-3 (NT-3) and the ingrowth of cholinergic axonal projections in cerebral cortex. Patterns of expression of NT-3 (defined by beta-galactosidase reporter expression in heterozygous offspring of transgenic NT-3(lacZneo/+) mice) revealed that limbic cortical regions (including frontal, cingulate, and insular cortex, as well as the dentate gyrus) express NT-3 and that these cortical regions receive early and relatively dense cholinergic axons (stained for acetylcholinesterase, AChE). Using the dentate gyrus as a model system, studies revealed that expression of the NT-3 reporter parallels, and precedes by approximately 2 days, the ingrowth of AChE positive cholinergic axons. Studies of forebrain organotypic slice cultures demonstrate that basal forebrain-derived cholinergic axons extend into cortical regions in a pattern that mimics the pattern of expression of the NT-3 reporter. Similarly, chimeric co-cultures, combining wild type septum with a slice of hippocampus from heterozygous NT-3(lacZneo/+) mice, demonstrate that cholinergic axons grow into regions of the dentate gyrus that express the NT-3 reporter. Hemisphere slice cultures made from NT-3 knockout mice reveal cholinergic axonal growth into cortex, but these axons do not form the regional pattern characteristic of slice cultures made from wild type or heterozygous NT-3(lacZneo/+) mice. Further, chimeric co-cultures made using slices of wild type septum combined with slices of hippocampus from NT-3 knockout mice demonstrate robust cholinergic axonal growth into the hippocampus, but the cholinergic axons do not form the characteristic preterminal pattern associated with the dentate gyrus. Slice cultures from limbic cortical tissue from the NT-3 null mice do not display exaggerated levels of cell death. In aggregate, these data support the hypothesis that expression of NT-3 by cortical neurons serves to attract basal forebrain cholinergic projections to their target cells in cerebral cortex.
The posterior parietal cortex (PPC) plays an integral role in visuospatial attention. Evidence suggests that neuronal activity in the PPC predicts the allocation of attention to stimuli. The present experiment tested the hypothesis that in rats performing a sustained attention task, the detection of signals, as opposed to missed signals, is associated with increased PPC unit activity. Single unit activity was recorded from the PPC of rats and analyzed individually and as a population vector for each recording session. A population of single units (28/111) showed significant activation evoked by signals on trials resulting in correct performance (hits). A smaller population of neurons (three/111) was activated on trials in which signals were not detected by the animals (misses). Analysis of populations of simultaneously recorded neurons indicated increased activation predicting signal detection; no population of neurons was activated on trials in which the animal incorrectly pressed the hit lever following nonsignals. The increased, hit-predicting activity was not modulated by signal duration or the presence of a visual distractor, although the distractor reduced the number of trials in which hit-predicting activity and subsequent correct detection occurred. These findings indicate that attentional signal processing in the PPC integrates successful detection of signals.
The activation of the subfornical organ (SFO), a circumventricular organ, induces water intake and vasopressin release. Since central administrations of galanin (GAL) suppress water intake and vasopressin release, GAL may inhibit the neural activity of SFO neurons. In the present study, we investigated effects of GAL on the SFO using molecular biological, electrophysiological and anatomical techniques. Reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction analysis demonstrated the presence in the SFO of rats of the mRNAs for each of the three known GAL receptor subtypes (GalR1, GalR2 and GalR3). In extracellular recordings in SFO slice preparations, GAL dose-dependently inhibited the neural activity of cells from a number of recording sites. Many GAL-sensitive SFO neurons showed excitatory responses to angiotensin II (ANGII). The GalR1 agonist M617 inhibited the activity of SFO neurons, whereas the GalR2 and GalR3 agonist GAL(2-11) had almost no effect. In patch-clamp recordings, GAL induced an outward current in SFO neurons without influencing synaptic currents. An immunoelectron microscopic study revealed the existence of GAL-containing synaptic vesicles in the SFO. These results suggest that the SFO has neural inputs involving GAL. The response to GAL is inhibitory, mediated at least in part by GalR1 and provides a plausible explanation for the opposite effects of ANGII and GAL seen in vivo on water intake and vasopressin release.
Brief hypoxia differentially regulates the activities of Ca(2+)-activated K(+) channels (K(Ca)) in a variety of cell types. We investigated the effects of hypoxia (&lt;2% O(2)) on K(Ca) channel currents and on the activities of cytochrome P450 2C11 epoxygenase (CYP epoxygenase) in cultured rat hippocampal astrocytes. Exposure of astrocytes to hypoxia enhanced macroscopic outward K(Ca) current, increased the open state probability (NPo) of 71 pS and 161 pS single-channel K(Ca) currents in cell-attached patches, but failed to increase the NPo of both the 71 pS and 161 pS K(Ca) channel currents recorded from excised inside-out patches. The hypoxia-induced enhancement of macroscopic K(Ca) current was attenuated by pretreatment with tetraethylammonium (TEA, 1 mM) or during recording using low-Ca(2+) external bath solution. Exposure of astrocytes to hypoxia was associated with generation of superoxide as detected by staining of cells with the intracellular superoxide detection probe hydroethidine (HE), attenuation of the hypoxia-induced activation of unitary K(Ca) channel currents by superoxide dismutation with tempol, and as quantitated by high-pressure liquid chromatography/fluorescence assay using HE as a probe. In cultured astrocytes in which endogenous CYP epoxygenase activity has been inhibited with either miconazole or N-methylsulfonyl-6-(2-propargyloxyphenyl) hexanamide (MSPPOH) hypoxia failed to increase the NPo of both the 71 pS and 161 pS K(Ca) currents and generation of superoxide. Hypoxia increased the level of P450 epoxygenase protein and production of epoxyeicosatrienoic acids (EETs) from cultured astrocytes, as determined by immunohistochemical staining and LC/MS analysis, respectively. Exogenous 11,12-EET increased the NPo of both the 71 pS and 161 pS K(Ca) single-channel currents only in cell-attached but not in excised inside-out patches of cultured astrocytes. These findings indicate that hypoxia enhances the activities of two types of unitary K(Ca) currents in astrocytes by a mechanism that appears to involve CYP epoxygenase-dependent generation of superoxide and increased production or release of EETs.
Superoxide produced by the enzyme nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate (NADPH) oxidase mediates crucial intracellular signaling cascades in the medial nucleus of the solitary tract (mNTS), a brain region populated by catecholaminergic neurons, as well as astroglia that play an important role in autonomic function. The mechanisms mediating NADPH oxidase (phagocyte oxidase) activity in the neural regulation of cardiovascular processes are incompletely understood, however the subcellular localization of superoxide produced by the enzyme is likely to be an important regulatory factor. We used immunogold electron microscopy to determine the phenotypic and subcellular localization of the NADPH oxidase subunits p47(phox), gp91(phox,) and p22(phox) in the mNTS in rats. The mNTS contains a large population of neurons that synthesize catecholamines. Significantly, catecholaminergic signaling can be modulated by redox reactions. Therefore, the relationship of NADPH oxidase subunit labeled neurons or glia with respect to catecholaminergic neurons was also determined by dual labeling for the superoxide producing enzyme and tyrosine hydroxylase (TH), the rate-limiting enzyme in catecholamine biosynthesis. In the mNTS, NADPH oxidase subunits were present primarily in somatodendritic processes and astrocytes, some of which also contained TH, or were contacted by TH-labeled axons, respectively. Immunogold quantification of NADPH oxidase subunit localization showed that p47(phox) and gp91(phox) were present on the surface membrane, as well as vesicular organelles characteristic of calcium storing smooth endoplasmic reticula in dendritic and astroglial processes. These results indicate that NADPH oxidase assembly and consequent superoxide formation are likely to occur near the plasmalemma, as well as on vesicular organelles associated with intracellular calcium storage within mNTS neurons and glia. Thus, NADPH oxidase-derived superoxide may participate in intracellular signaling pathways linked to calcium regulation in diverse mNTS cell types. Moreover, NADPH oxidase-derived superoxide in neurons and glia may directly or indirectly modulate catecholaminergic neuron activity in the mNTS.
Recent data support an important role for calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) in deep tissue nociceptive processing. Using real-time reverse transcriptase polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR), radioimmunoassay, immunohistochemistry and behavioral testing, we studied the early time course of CGRP mRNA and protein expression as well as nociceptive behavior following muscle inflammation. A rapid and significant increase in CGRP mRNA occurred in the mandibular division (V3) of the ipsilateral trigeminal ganglion at 30 minutes, 4 and 24 h after the injection of complete Freund's adjuvant as an inflammatory agent into rat masseter muscle. No change in mRNA occurred in the ipsilateral ophthalmic and maxillary divisions (V1/V2) or in the contralateral V3. The levels of immunoreactive calcitonin gene-related peptide (iCGRP) in the ipsilateral V3 significantly increased at 1, 4 and 24 h following muscle inflammation. In contrast, no change occurred in iCGRP levels in either the ipsilateral V1/V2 or contralateral V3. When saline was injected into the masseter muscle, the levels of mRNA or iCGRP did not change in the ipsilateral V3 suggesting that the biochemical changes are specific to CFA-induced muscle inflammation. The number of muscle afferent neurons immunoreactive for CGRP was significantly reduced compared with control at 1, 4 and 24 h in the ipsilateral but not in the contralateral trigeminal ganglion following inflammation. This decrease in the ipsilateral ganglion may indicate a loss of intrasomatic CGRP as a result of increased axonal transport away from the neuronal cell body and/or release of CGRP. Behavioral testing showed a reduction in head withdrawal thresholds bilaterally from 30 min through 24 h following muscle inflammation. Thus upregulation of CGRP mRNA and iCGRP levels are temporally related to the development of inflammation and lowered pain thresholds. The present data support the hypothesis that CGRP is upregulated during deep tissue inflammation and suggest that gene transcription is involved in this upregulation.
In the CNS, l-serine (l-Ser) plays an essential role in neuronal survival by evoking a variety of biological responses in glial cells. Initially, we examined whether glutamate, hydrogen peroxide (H(2)O(2)), interleukin-1 (IL-1) beta, and sodium nitroprusside (SNP) induce the secretion of l-Ser in astrocytes isolated from Wistar Kyoto rats (WKY). The secretion of l-Ser was significantly induced with glutamate and SNP in cultured astrocytes. Next, to gain insight into the involvement of l-Ser in glutamate-induced neuroprotection, we compared the secretion of l-Ser in astrocytes isolated from stroke-prone spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHRSP) and normotensive rats, WKY. We also examined the mRNA expression of the enzyme that produces l-Ser, 3-phosphoglycerate dehydrogenase (PHGDH), and a neural amino acid transporter, ASCT1, in the cultured astrocytes. A dose-dependent study of glutamate in astrocytes of SHRSP indicated differences in the secretion of l-Ser, and gene expression of PHGDH and ASCT1, compared with levels in the WKY astrocytes. We demonstrated that both the secretion and the gene expression were significantly attenuated in glutamate-treated astrocytes from SHRSP. Cerebral ischemia in SHRSP induced a massive efflux of glutamate, causing delayed neuronal death in region CA1 of the hippocampus. The results suggest that the attenuated secretion of l-Ser in astrocytes is involved in neuronal vulnerability and survival in SHRSP during the production of glutamate, as the secretion of l-Ser, which is stimulated by glutamate, is closely related to the protective effect against glutamate-mediated neurotoxicity. We conclude that glutamate and SNP up-regulate the secretion of l-Ser in primary astrocytes. Secretion of l-Ser is regulated in astrocytes in response to glutamate and nitric oxide and may correspond to the level of l-Ser needed for neuronal survival during brain insults such as ischemic stroke in SHRSP.
Dopamine (DA) is produced in numerous brain areas and influences a wide variety of social behaviors, but very few data are available to establish the socially-relevant response properties of most DA populations, which comprise eight cell groups numbered A8-A15. Anatomically, these DA populations are evolutionarily conserved, and all have been identified in both birds and mammals. We now report the Fos responses of tyrosine hydroxylase-immunoreactive (TH-ir; putatively dopaminergic) neurons in the A8-A15 cell groups of male zebra finches following exposure to a control condition or one of six different social stimuli: a heterospecific male, conspecific male, fighting in a mate competition paradigm (which includes both male and female stimuli), a courtship interaction without physical contact, a courtship interaction with physical contact but no mounting, and a courtship interaction with mounting. We found that the DA cell groups exhibit distinctive profiles of responsiveness to social stimuli. Fos induction in A8, A9, A10 and midbrain A11 neurons increased significantly in response to a variety of conspecific stimuli, but not heterospecific stimuli. In contrast, Fos induction in the preoptic A14 neurons was observed specifically in response to sexual interactions, and Fos induction in hypothalamic A11 neurons appears to primarily reflect the performance of courtship singing. Infundibular A12 neurons, which may be involved in stress-related processes, showed the highest level of TH+Fos colocalization in control subjects. This colocalization decreased in response to all conspecific stimuli except fighting, and did not decrease following exposure to a heterospecific male.
Cortical amyloid-beta (Abeta) deposition is considered essential in Alzheimer's disease (AD) and is also detectable in nondemented individuals with pathologic aging (PA). The present work presents a detailed analysis of the Abeta composition in various plaque types from human AD and PA cases, compared with plaque Abeta isolated from PS2APP mice. To determine minute amounts of Abeta from 30 to 50 laser-dissected amyloid deposits, we used a highly sensitive mass spectrometry procedure after restriction protease lysyl endopeptidase (Lys-C) digestion. This approach allowed the analysis of the amino-terminus and, including a novel ionization modifier, for the first time the carboxy-terminus of Abeta at a detection limit of approximately 200 fmol. In addition, full length Abeta 40/42 and pyroglutamate 3-42 were analyzed using a highly sensitive urea-based Western blot procedure. Generally, Abeta fragments were less accessible in human deposits, indicative of more posttranslational modifications. Thioflavine S positive cored plaques in AD were found to contain predominantly Abeta 42, whereas thioflavine S positive compact plaques and vascular amyloid consist mostly of Abeta 40. Diffuse plaques from AD and PA, as well as from PS2APP mice are composed predominantly of Abeta 1-42. Despite biochemical similarities in human and PS2APP mice, immuno-electron microscopy revealed an extensive extracellular matrix associated with Abeta fibrils in AD, specifically in diffuse plaques. Amino-terminal truncations of Abeta, especially pyroglutamate 3-40/42, are more frequently found in human plaques. In cored plaques we measured an increase of N-terminal truncations of approximately 20% between Braak stages IV to VI. In contrast, diffuse plaques of AD and PA cases, show consistently only low levels of amino-terminal truncations. Our data support the concept that diffuse plaques represent initial Abeta deposits but indicate a structural difference for Abeta depositions in human AD compared with PS2APP mice already at the stage of diffuse plaque formation.
Chronic stress in rats has been shown to impair learning and memory, and precipitate several affective disorders like depression and anxiety. The mechanisms involved in these stress-induced disorders and the possible reversal are poorly understood, thus limiting the number of drugs available for their treatment. Our earlier studies suggest cholinergic dysfunction as the underlying cause in the behavioral deficits following stress. Muscarinic cholinergic agonist, oxotremorine is demonstrated to have a beneficial effect in reversing brain injury-induced behavioral dysfunction. In this study, we have evaluated the effect of oxotremorine treatment on chronic restraint stress-induced cognitive deficits. Rats were subjected to restraint stress (6 h/day) for 21 days followed by oxotremorine treatment for 10 days. Spatial learning and memory was assessed in a partially baited eight-arm radial maze task. Stressed rats exhibited impairment in performance, with decreased percentage of correct choices and an increase in the number of reference memory errors (RMEs). Oxotremorine treatment (0.1 or 0.2 mg/kg, i.p.) to stressed rats resulted in a significant increase in the percent correct choices and a decrease in the number of RMEs compared with stress as well as the stress+vehicle-treated groups. In the retention test, oxotremorine treated rats committed less RMEs compared with the stress group. Chronic restraint stress decreased acetylcholinesterase (AChE) activity in the hippocampus, frontal cortex and septum, which was reversed by both the doses of oxotremorine. Further, oxotremorine treatment also restored the norepinephrine levels in the hippocampus and frontal cortex. Thus, this study demonstrates the potential of cholinergic muscarinic agonists and the involvement of both cholinergic and noradrenergic systems in the reversal of stress-induced learning and memory deficits.
In the adult CNS, GABA is the predominant inhibitory neurotransmitter, mediating the hyperpolarization of membrane potential and regulating the glutamatergic activity. In the immature CNS, on the other hand, GABA mediates depolarization and is involved in controlling morphogenesis. This developmental shift in GABA actions from depolarization to hyperpolarization occurs as a result of decreasing the intracellular chloride ion (Cl(-)) concentration ([Cl(-)](i)) which is regulated by the potassium (K(+))-Cl(-) co-transporter 2 (KCC2). To clarify the time-course of changes in the GABA actions during development, we examined the developmental localization of the KCC2 in the granule cells of the postnatal mouse cerebellum using specific antibodies against KCC2. The granule cell precursors and migrating granule cells were devoid of immunoreactivity against KCC2 antibodies. At postnatal day 3 (P3), the KCC2-immunolabeling was negative in the internal granular layer, although synaptophysin-positive mossy fiber terminals were detected. At P5, we first detected the KCC2-immunolabeling at the somata of granule cells and their dendrites before granule cells received inhibitory input from Golgi cells. Almost all KCC2-positive dendrites (more than 98%) attached to and formed synapses with mossy fiber terminals. As development proceeded, the number of KCC2-positive granule cells increased, and all granule cells became positive by P21. These results suggested that GABAergic transmission on granule cells might shift from excitation to inhibition after the synapse formation, and the excitatory synapse-formation and related factors might be the triggers for the expression and localization of the KCC2 in the granule cells. Furthermore, it was also suggested that formation of the GABAergic synapses and GABAergic transmission were not necessary for the KCC2-expression in the mouse cerebellar granule cells in vivo.
Pharmacological, lesion and single-unit recording techniques in several animal species have identified a region of the pontine reticular formation (subcoeruleus, SubC) just ventral to the locus coeruleus as critically involved in the generation of rapid-eye-movement (REM) sleep. However, the intrinsic membrane properties and responses of SubC neurons to neurotransmitters important in REM sleep control, such as acetylcholine and orexins/hypocretins, have not previously been examined in any animal species and thus were targeted in this study. We obtained whole-cell patch-clamp recordings from visually identified SubC neurons in rat brain slices in vitro. Two groups of large neurons (mean diameter 30 and 27 mum) were tentatively identified as cholinergic (rostral SubC) and noradrenergic (caudal SubC) neurons. SubC reticular neurons (non-cholinergic, non-noradrenergic) showed a medium-sized depolarizing sag during hyperpolarizing current pulses and often had a rebound depolarization (low-threshold spike, LTS). During depolarizing current pulses they exhibited little adaptation and fired maximally at 30-90 Hz. Those SubC reticular neurons excited by carbachol (n=27) fired spontaneously at 6 Hz, often exhibited a moderately sized LTS, and varied widely in size (17-42 mum). Carbachol-inhibited SubC reticular neurons were medium-sized (15-25 mum) and constituted two groups. The larger group (n=22) was silent at rest and possessed a prominent LTS and associated one to four action potentials. The second, smaller group (n=8) had a delayed return to baseline at the offset of hyperpolarizing pulses. Orexins excited both carbachol excited and carbachol inhibited SubC reticular neurons. SubC reticular neurons had intrinsic membrane properties and responses to carbachol similar to those described for other reticular neurons but a larger number of carbachol inhibited neurons were found (&gt;50%), the majority of which demonstrated a prominent LTS and may correspond to pontine-geniculate-occipital burst neurons. Some or all carbachol-excited neurons are presumably REM-on neurons.
Men are typically reported to have higher pain thresholds than women. Gonadal hormones, particularly testosterone for males, may contribute to this effect. This study tested whether changes in the male hormonal milieu early or late in development alter the inflammatory pain induced by carrageenan (CARR, 3%, intraarticular). Male rats were either gonadectomized or sham gonadectomized neonatally. Once adults, the same rats underwent either sham surgery or gonadectomy, and received a testosterone or oil implant. After baseline testing two weeks later, animals were tested in response to mechanical and thermal stimulation following CARR-induced inflammation and injection of saline, 1 mg/kg, or 5 mg/kg morphine. Hormone alterations did not affect baseline responses, but CARR induced mechanical and thermal hyperalgesia in the injured limb. Gonadectomy in adult males injected with saline enhanced inflammation-induced sensitivity to mechanical but not thermal stimulation and the effect was reversed by testosterone. After inflammation, saline-treated males gonadectomized neonatally displayed lower mechanical threshold than control sham animals but this effect was not reversed by testosterone. Both doses of morphine increased mechanical and thermal thresholds. However, compared with the control group, 1 mg/kg morphine was equally effective in reducing mechanical hyperalgesia among groups of animals gonadectomized as adults, but less effective in males gonadectomized neonatally. The results suggest that in males: 1. the antihyperalgesic effect of testosterone (or its metabolites) in CARR-induced inflammation is established during development and maintained by circulating levels of testosterone in adulthood; 2. the nociception-related interaction between the opioid and gonadal systems influences the sensitivity to mechanical stimuli and is likely established during the period of sexual differentiation.
The projections of the substantia nigra pars compacta (SNc) to the reticular thalamic nucleus (RTn) were assessed by measuring dopamine content and counting tyrosine hydroxylase positive (TH (+)) cells in rats with unilateral lesions induced by 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA), and by using a fluorescent tract-tracing technique in rats without lesions. Injection of 6-OHDA in the RTn reduced dopamine content and the number of TH (+) cells in the SNc by about 50%. Branching of SNc was suggested by the finding that 6-OHDA deposited in the RTn significantly reduced dopamine in the striatum and globus pallidus. Moreover, injections of 6-OHDA into either the striatum or the globus pallidus significantly reduced dopamine content in the RTn. Fluorescent tracers injected into the RTn labeled TH (+) cells in the SNc. A high proportion of these TH (+) cells was double labeled when tracers were also injected into either the globus pallidus or striatum. Other experiments showed that systemic injection of apomorphine or methamphetamine induced turning behavior in rats with local deposits of 6-OHDA in either the RTn or the studied basal ganglia nuclei. The extensive dopaminergic branching suggests that the abnormal motor behavior of rats with 6-OHDA deposits in the RTn may be caused by dopaminergic denervation of more than one structure. The fact that lesion of a single dopaminergic neuron can reduce dopamine transmission in more than one structure is probably important in generating the manifestations of Parkinson's disease.
Monocular deprivation (MD) during a critical period of visual development triggers a rapid remodeling of cortical responses in favor of the open eye. We have previously shown that this process is enhanced by sleep and is inhibited when the sleeping cortex is reversibly inactivated. A related but distinct form of cortical plasticity is evoked when the originally deprived eye (ODE) is reopened, and the non-deprived eye is closed during the critical period (reverse monocular deprivation (RMD)). Recent studies suggest that different mechanisms regulate the initial loss of deprived eye responses following MD and the recovery of deprived eye responses following RMD. In this study we investigated whether sleep also enhances RMD plasticity in critical period cats. Using polysomnography combined with microelectrode recordings and intrinsic signal optical imaging in visual cortex we show that sleep does not enhance the recovery of ODE responses following RMD. These findings add to the growing evidence that different forms of plasticity in vivo are regulated by distinct mechanisms and that sleep has divergent roles upon different types of experience-dependent cortical plasticity.
In the present report, we investigated the association between the sustained activation of Src family tyrosine kinases (primarily Src kinase) with the biphasic phosphorylation of extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK) induced by ischemia in the rat hippocampal CA3/dentate gyrus subfield. Post-ischemia reperfusion resulted in the phosphorylation of ERK in a Ras-dependent manner; down-regulation of NMDA receptors or Src family protein kinases by ketamine or 4-amino-5-(4-chlorophenyl)-7-(t-butyl) pyrazolo[3,4-d] pyrimidine (PP2) potently antagonized the activation of ERK, indicating that NMDA receptors and Src family tyrosine kinases are essential for the up-regulation of ERK activity following ischemic stimuli. Additionally, an ischemia-induced association between RKIP and Raf-1 resulted in the inhibition of the ERK signaling cascade through an inhibition of Src-mediated Raf-1 phosphorylation at Tyr340/341 residues. This ischemia-induced inhibition of ERK was not associated with other downstream pathways involving Raf-1 phosphorylation at Ser 259 elicited by protein kinase B (Akt). Dissociation of Raf-1 from RKIP by 24 h reperfusion or (4S)-3-[(E)-but-2-enoyl]-4-benzyl-2-oxazolidinone (locostatin) influenced the second phase of ERK activation elicited by the Src-Raf cassette. We propose that, following ischemia, the Src family tyrosine kinases are critical for modulation of the Ras/Raf/MEK/ERK cascade, in which RKIP is involved in biphasic phosphorylation of ERK via a blockade of Src-Raf cascades.
Separate experiments found that activation of N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA) receptors or increased acetylcholine (ACh) efflux in the rat dorsomedial striatum is critical for learning when conditions require a shift in strategies. Increasing evidence indicates that NMDA receptor activity affects cholinergic efflux in the basal ganglia. The present studies determined whether NMDA receptor blockade in the dorsomedial striatum with dl-2-amino-5-phosphonopentanoic acid (AP-5) affects dorsomedial striatal ACh output in a resting condition, as well as during response reversal learning. Experiment 1 investigated the effects of AP-5 (12.5, 25 or 50 muM) infused into the dorsomedial striatum on ACh output in a resting condition. AP-5 infusion at 25 and 50 muM led to a 20% and 40% decrease in dorsomedial striatal ACh output, respectively. AP-5 (12.5 muM) infusion did not change dorsomedial striatal ACh output from basal levels. Experiment 2 determined whether dorsomedial striatal ACh efflux increases during response reversal learning and whether AP-5, at a dose that does not affect basal levels, modifies response reversal learning and ACh efflux. Following acquisition of a response discrimination, rats had microdialysis probes bilaterally inserted into the dorsomedial striatum prior to the reversal learning test. After baseline samples, rats received a response reversal learning test for 30 min. Control rats rapidly improved in the reversal learning session while simultaneously exhibiting an approximately 40% increase in ACh output compared with baseline levels. AP-5 (12.5 muM) treatment during testing significantly impaired response reversal learning while concomitantly blocking an increase in ACh output. These findings suggest that NMDA receptor activation in the dorsomedial striatum may facilitate a shift in response patterns, in part, by increasing ACh efflux.
The presence of adrenocorticotropin (ACTH) containing cells and melanocortin (MC) receptors has been reported in the nucleus tractus solitarius (NTS) of the rat. The importance of the NTS in the regulation of cardiovascular function is also well established. Based on these reports, it was hypothesized that ACTH acting within the NTS may modulate the central regulation of cardiovascular function. To test this hypothesis, cardiovascular effects of ACTH in the NTS were investigated in intact urethane-anesthetized and unanesthetized decerebrate, artificially ventilated, adult male Wistar rats. Microinjections of ACTH (0, 0.5, 1, 2, and 4 mM) into the medial subnucleus of NTS (mNTS) elicited decreases in mean arterial pressure (MAP; 0+/-0, 24.4+/-3.5, 35.7+/-4.3, 44.5+/-5.8 and 53.7+/-5.6 mm Hg, respectively) and heart rate (HR; 0+/-0, 25.7+/-5.3, 35.5+/-6.4, 47.5+/-12.1 and 55.0+/-5.6 beats/min, respectively). The onset and duration of the responses to microinjections of ACTH (0.5-4 mM) were 5-10 s and 45-120 s, respectively. Control microinjections of artificial cerebrospinal fluid (aCSF) did not elicit any response. The volume of all microinjections was 100 nl. The concentrations of ACTH that elicited depressor and bradycardic responses when microinjected into the mNTS (e.g. 1 or 2 mM, 100 nl), did not elicit a response when injected i.v. (n=5) or i.c.v. (n=2) indicating that there was no leakage of the drug from the injection site in the mNTS. Microinjections of MC3/4 receptor antagonists (acetyl-[Nle(4), Asp(5), d-2-Nal(7), Lys(10)]-cyclo-alpha-MSH amide, fragments 4-10 (SHU9119) and agouti-related protein (83-132) amide) into the mNTS blocked the responses to ACTH. Microinjections of ACTH (2 mM) into the mNTS decreased efferent greater splanchnic nerve activity. Bilateral vagotomy significantly attenuated ACTH-induced bradycardia. These results indicated that: 1) microinjections of ACTH into the mNTS elicited depressor and bradycardic responses, 2) these responses were mediated via MC3/4 receptors, 3) the depressor effects were mediated via a decrease in the activity of the sympathetic nervous system, and 4) the bradycardic responses were vagally mediated.
Proteolysis of apolipoprotein E (apoE) may be involved in the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease (AD). We previously identified aspartic protease(s) as possibly contributing to the proteolysis of apoE in human brain homogenates. The current study used biochemical and immunohistochemical methods to examine whether cathepsin D (catD) and cathepsin E (catE), candidate aspartic proteases, may be involved in apoE proteolysis. CatD was found to proteolyze both lipid-free recombinant full-length human apoE and lipidated human plasma full-length apoE (apoE4/dipalmitoylphosphatidylcholine-reconstituted discs). CatE was found to proteolyze lipid-free recombinant human apoE to a much greater extent than lipidated apoE. This proteolysis, as well as proteolysis of human apoE added to brain homogenates from apoE-deficient mice, was inhibited by pepstatin A (an aspartic protease inhibitor), but not by phenylmethanesulfonyl fluoride (a serine protease inhibitor). The major apoE fragment obtained with catD included the receptor-binding domain and had an apparent molecular weight similar to that found in human brain homogenates. There was little immunoreactivity for catE in AD brain tissue sections. In contrast, qualitative and quantitative analyses of immunostained sections of the frontal cortex revealed that catD and apoE are colocalized in a subset of predominantly dense-core neuritic plaques and in some neurofibrillary tangles. A positive correlation was observed between estimated duration of illness and the percentage of apoE-positive plaques that were also catD-positive. These results suggest that aspartic proteases, catD in particular, may be involved in proteolysis of apoE and perhaps contribute to the generation of apoE fragments previously implicated in AD pathology.
Activation of protein kinase C (PKC) after robust stimulation is necessary for vesicle pool replenishment in secretory cells. Here we studied the contribution of a prominent downstream PKC target, Munc18-1, to this process in bovine chromaffin cells. In these cells, both activation of endogenous PKC and overexpressing of Munc18-1 promote vesicle pool replenishment after an extensive stimulation. In order to study the physiological relevance of PKC-dependent Munc18-1 phosphorylation, we generated two Munc18-1 phospho-mutants; one that mimics a constitutively PKC-phosphorylated Munc18-1 (i.e. a phosphomimetic mutant; Munc18-1(S313D)) and a second that cannot be PKC-phosphorylated (Munc18-1(3A)). Overexpression of Munc18-1(3A) caused a significant decrease in vesicle pool replenishment following a depleting stimulation, while Munc18-1(S313D) caused a significant increase in vesicle pool replenishment. These findings suggested that the phosphorylation of Munc18-1 by PKC potentiates vesicle pool replenishment. This hypothesis was further strengthened by the finding that overexpression of wild type Munc18-1 in the presence of a PKC inhibitor caused a significant reduction in vesicle pool replenishment, similar to that observed with Munc18-1(3A). Moreover, overexpression of Munc18-1(S313D) in the presence of the PKC inhibitor partly alleviated this attenuation, elucidating Munc18-1's unique contribution to vesicle pool replenishment. Finally, we demonstrate that Munc18-1 promotes vesicle docking in a phosphorylation-independent manner. This is deduced from the findings that both the wild type and the two Munc18-1 phospho-mutants enhanced docking to the same extent in bovine chromaffin cells. We conclude that Munc18-1 facilitates docking in a PKC phosphorylation-independent manner, and that its phosphorylation by PKC potentiates vesicle pool replenishment following a depleting stimulation, at a post-docking stage.
This study examines the interaction between two types of synesthesia: ordinal linguistic personification (OLP; the involuntary association of animate qualities such as gender/personality to linguistic units such as letters/numbers/days) and grapheme-color synesthesia (the involuntary association of colors to letters and/or numbers). By examining both variants in the same individual we aim to: (a) show that features of different synesthetic variants interact in cognitive tasks, (b) provide a cognitive model of this interaction, and (c) constrain models of the underlying neurological roots of this connectivity. Studies have shown inhibition in Stroop-type tasks for naming font colors that clash with synesthetic colors (e.g. slower naming of green font for synesthetically red letters). We show that Stroop-type slow-down occurs only when incongruent colors come from other letters with matching (but not mis-matching) gender (experiment 2). We also measure the speed of OLP gender judgments (e.g. a=female; experiment 1) and show that response times are slowed by incongruent colors from other letters with mis-matching (but not matching) genders. Our studies suggest that synesthetic variants interact and that their concurrents can become implicitly connected without mediation from inducing stimuli. We interpret these findings in light of recent developmental data showing protracted heterochronous neuronal development in humans, which continues through adolescence in parietal, frontal and perisylvian areas.
The primary visual pathway in albino mammals is characterized by an increased decussation of retinal ganglion cell axons at the optic chiasm and an enhanced contralateral projection to the dorsal lateral geniculate nucleus. In contrast to the primary visual pathway, little is known about the organization of retinal input to most nuclei of the subcortical visual system in albino mammals. The subcortical visual system is a large group of retinorecipient nuclei in the diencephalon and mesencephalon. These areas mediate a range of behaviors that include both circadian and acute responses to light. We used a congenic strain of albino and pigmented rats with a mutation at the c locus for albinism (Fischer 344-c/+; LaVail MM, Lawson NR (1986) Development of a congenic strain of pigmented and albino rats for light damage studies. Exp Eye Res 43:867-869) to quantitatively assess the effects of albinism on retinal projections to a number of subcortical visual nuclei including the ventral lateral hypothalamus (VLH), ventral lateral preoptic area (VLPO), olivary pretectal nucleus (OPN), posterior limitans (PLi), commissural pretectal area (CPA), intergeniculate leaflet (IGL), ventral lateral geniculate nucleus (vLGN) and superior colliculus (SC). Following eye injections of the neuroanatomical tracer cholera toxin-beta, the distribution of anterogradely transported label was measured. The retinal projection to the contralateral VLH, PLi, CPA and IGL was enhanced in albino rats. No significant differences were found between albino and pigmented rats in retinal input to the VLPO, OPN and vLGN. These findings raise the possibility that enhanced retinofugal projections to subcortical visual nuclei in albinos may underlie some light-mediated behaviors that differ between albino and pigmented mammals.
We have investigated the channel structural determinants that underlie the difference in gating properties of Cav3.1 and Cav3.3 T-type channels, by creating a series of chimeric channel constructs in which the major transmembrane domains were swapped. The chimeras were then expressed in tsA-201 cells and subjected to whole cell patch clamp analysis. Our data reveal that domains I and IV are major determinants of the half-activation potential. Substitution of domain IV was the most important determinant of activation time constant and time constant for recovery from inactivation, with domains I and II mediating a smaller role. In contrast, the carboxy terminal region did not appear to be involved. Determinants of the time constant for inactivation could not be localized to a specific transmembrane domain, but the concomitant substitution of domains I+IV was able to partially confer the inactivation kinetics among the two wild type channels. Our data indicate that the domain IV region mediates an important role in T-type channel activation, whereas multiple channel structural determinants appear to control T-type channel inactivation.
Ezrin is a member of the ERM (ezrin-radixin-moesin) family of membrane-cytoskeletal linking proteins. ERM proteins are involved in a wide variety of cellular functions including cell motility, signal transduction, cell-cell interaction and cell-matrix recognition. A recent in situ hybridization study showed that the mRNA encoding ezrin is expressed in neurogenic regions of the mature brain including the subventricular zone (SVZ) and rostral migratory stream (RMS); however, the specific cell types expressing ezrin and their relationship to migrating and proliferating cells in these regions have not been characterized previously. In this study, we used immunocytochemistry to perform double labeling with a variety of cell-type specific markers to characterize the expression of ezrin in the SVZ and RMS of adult mice. Ezrin was expressed at high levels in both the SVZ and RMS where ezrin-immunopositive processes formed a trabecular network surrounding the proliferating and migrating cells. Ezrin-positive cells co-labeled with the glial makers S100beta and GFAP (glial fibrillary acidic protein), but only minimally with the early neuronal markers beta III tubulin and polysialylated form of neural cell adhesion molecule 1 (PSA-NCAM), indicating that ezrin was expressed primarily in the glial tube cells. Ezrin positive cells also expressed beta-catenin, a membrane-complex protein previously implicated in the regulation of stem-cell proliferation and neuronal migration. Glial tube cells act as both precursors of, and a physical channel for, migrating neuroblasts. Bi-directional signals between glial tube cells and migrating neuroblasts have been shown to regulate the rates of both proliferation of the precursor cells and migration of the newly generated neuroblasts. Our finding that ezrin and beta-catenin are both present at the cell membrane of the glial tube cells suggests that these proteins may be involved in those signaling processes.
This study used the anterograde transport of biotinylated dextran amine (BDA) to identify the course and terminal distribution of projections from the dorsal raphe nucleus (DRN) to the vestibular nuclei in rats. After iontophoretic injection of BDA into the medial and lateral regions of DRN, anterogradely labeled fibers descend within the medial longitudinal fasciculus and the ventricular fiber plexus to terminate within two discrete regions of the vestibular nuclear complex. One terminal field was located primarily ipsilateral to the injection site and involved rostrodorsal aspects of the vestibular nuclei, including superior vestibular nucleus and rostral portions of the medial vestibular nucleus (MVN) and lateral vestibular nucleus (LVN). The other terminal field involved caudoventral aspects of both ipsilateral and contralateral MVN and LVN and was less heavily innervated. These findings confirm that the vestibular nuclei are targeted by a regionally-selective projection from the DRN. The segregation of DRN terminals into anatomically distinct fields indicates that the DRN-vestibular nucleus projections are organized to selectively modulate processing within specific functional domains of the vestibular nuclear complex. In particular, these terminal fields may be organized to modulate vestibular regions involved in eye movement-related velocity storage, coordination of vestibular and affective responses, and the bilateral coordination of horizontal eye movement reflexes.
Rodent homologues of two candidate dyslexia susceptibility genes, Kiaa0319 and Dcdc2, have been shown to play roles in neuronal migration in developing cerebral neocortex. This functional role is consistent with the hypothesis that dyslexia susceptibility is increased by interference with normal neural development. In this study we report that in utero RNA interference against the rat homolog of another candidate dyslexia susceptibility gene, DYX1C1, disrupts neuronal migration in developing neocortex. The disruption of migration can be rescued by concurrent overexpression of DYX1C1, indicating that the impairment is not due to off-target effects. Transfection of C- and N-terminal truncations of DYX1C1 shows that the C-terminal TPR domains determine DYX1C1 intracellular localization to cytoplasm and nucleus. RNAi rescue experiments using truncated versions of DYX1C1 further indicate that the C-terminus of DYX1C1 is necessary and sufficient to DYX1C1's function in migration. In conclusion, DYX1C1, similar to two other candidate dyslexia susceptibility genes, functions in neuronal migration in rat neocortex.
Atypical antipsychotic drugs, such as olanzapine, have been reported to activate the locus coeruleus (LC) and lead to acute expression of the Fos-like immediate early gene (IEG) protein in the LC and medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC). Stimuli that activate the LC have been reported to increase expression of tyrosine hydroxylase (TH), the rate-limiting enzyme in catecholamine synthesis. However, the effects of chronic treatment with olanzapine on IEG expression and the dose-dependence of the effects of olanzapine on IEG and TH expression are not known. Thus, we examined Fos-like, c-Jun, activating transcription factor 2 (ATF-2), early growth response 1 (Egr-1), early growth response 2 (Egr-2), and TH immunoreactivity expression in the LC and mPFC in rats receiving 2, 4, 8, or 15 mg/kg/day olanzapine by s.c. osmotic minipump for 4 h, 1 week, 2 weeks, or 4 weeks. ATF-2 expression was up-regulated at all treatment durations, while Egr-1 and Egr-2 were down-regulated in both the LC and mPFC. Fos-like expression was up-regulated through 2 weeks, but not 4 weeks, in both the LC and mPFC. C-Jun expression was up-regulated for 4 weeks in the LC and for 2 weeks, but not 4 weeks, in the mPFC. At all doses, there were rapid and sustained increases in TH immunoreactivity in the LC, but only delayed increases in the mPFC. These data indicate that olanzapine has rapid effects on IEG in the LC and mPFC, many of which are sustained through four weeks of treatment. Further, these data indicate that the delayed increase in TH expression in the mPFC parallels, and may play an important role in, the increased efficacy of olanzapine that emerges over time in humans.
Anatomical connections of the insular cortex suggest its involvement in cognition, emotion, memory, and behavioral manifestation. However, there have been few neurophysiological studies on the insular cortex in primates, in relation to such higher cognitive functions. In the present study, neural activity was recorded from the monkey insular cortex during performance of a delayed-response delayed-reward go/nogo task. In this task, visual stimuli indicating go or nogo responses associated with reward (reward trials) and with no reward (no-reward trials) were presented after eye fixation. In the reward trials, the monkey was required to release a button during presentation of the 2nd visual stimuli after a delay period (delay 1). Then, a juice reward was delivered after another delay (delay 2). The results indicated that the neurons responding in each epoch of the task were topographically localized within the insular cortex, consistent with the previous anatomical studies indicating topographical distributions of afferent inputs from other subcortical and cortical sensory areas. Furthermore, some insular neurons 1) nonspecifically responded to the visual cues and during fixation; 2) responded to the visual cues predicting reward and during the delay period before reward delivery; 3) responded differentially in go/nogo trials during the delay 2; and 4) responded around button manipulation. The observed patterns of insular-neuron responses and the correspondence of their topographical localization to those in previous anatomical studies suggest that the insular cortex is involved in attention- and reward-related functions and might monitor and integrate activities of other brain regions during cognition and behavioral manifestation.
We investigated the contribution of peripheral 5-HT2A or 5-HT3 receptors to Fos expression in the trigeminal spinal nucleus (VSP) following acute masseter muscle injury in male rats with or without temporomandibular joint (TMJ) inflammation persisting for 7 days. TMJ inflammation was evoked by an injection of complete Freund's adjuvant (CFA). Two hours after formalin injection into the masseter muscle produced Fos-like immunoreactivity (Fos-LI) in several regions of the VSP and upper cervical spinal cord (C2), such as ventrolateral (vl) area of the trigeminal subnucleus caudalis (Vc)/subnucleus interpolaris (Vi) transition (vl-Vi/Vc), paratrigeminal nucleus (dPa5), middle portion of the Vc (mid-Vc) and Vc/C2 transition (Vc/C2) regions in both groups. Significant increases in the number of Fos-LI were observed in these areas in CFA group compared with non-CFA group. TMJ inflammation alone did not induce a significant level of Fos-LI in the VSP. In order to assess the effect of antagonizing 5-HT2A or 5-HT3 receptors on formalin-induced Fos-LI, rats were pre-treated with local (masseter muscle) administration of ketanserin or tropisetron (0.01, 0.1 mg/rat) 20 min prior to formalin injection. In CFA group, these antagonists given locally reduced the Fos-LI response in the laminae I-II at the mid-Vc and Vc/C2 regions. These antagonists reduced the Fos-LI response in the dPa5, but not in the vl-Vi/Vc region. The Fos-LI response was not affected by i.v. administration of ketanserin (0.01, 0.1 mg/rat) or tropisetron (0.01 mg/rat). In non-CFA group, these antagonists given locally did not reduce the Fos-LI response. These results suggest that peripheral 5-HT2A and 5-HT3 receptors contribute to nociceptive processing in the masseter muscle in TMJ inflammatory conditions.
Spinal cord stimulation (SCS) is an established treatment for chronic neuropathic pain. However, in recent studies conflicting results regarding the effect of SCS were noted in a selected group of patients suffering from complex regional pain syndrome and mechanical allodynia. In the present study we investigated the pain relieving effect of SCS in a rat experimental model of neuropathic pain as related to the severity of mechanical allodynia. Adult male rats (n=45) were submitted to a unilateral sciatic nerve ligation. The level of allodynia was tested using the withdrawal response to tactile stimuli with the von Frey test. A portion of these rats developed marked tactile hypersensitivity in the nerve-lesioned paw (von Frey test), similar to &quot;tactile allodynia&quot; observed after nerve injury in humans. Prior to SCS treatment the rats were subdivided into three groups based on the level of allodynia: mild, moderate and severe. All allodynic rats were treated with SCS (n=27) for 30 min (f=50 Hz; pulse width 0.2 ms and stimulation at 2/3 of motor threshold) at 16 days post-injury. Our data demonstrate a differential effect of SCS related to the severity of the mechanical allodynia. SCS leads to a faster and better pain relief in mildly allodynic rats as compared with the more severely allodynic rats. Thus, we suggest that the selection and subdivision of patient groups similar to those defined in our experimental setting (mild, moderate and severe allodynic) may provide better pre-treatment prediction of possible therapeutic benefits of SCS.
To explore the ventral medial prefrontal cortex (vMPFC) involvement in behavioral and autonomic fear-conditioned responses to context, vMPFC synaptic transmission was temporarily inhibited by bilateral microinjections of 200 nL of the nonselective synapse blocker CoCl(2) (1 mM). Behavioral activity (freezing, motor activity and rearing) as well as evoked cardiovascular responses (arterial pressure and heart rate) was analyzed. Rats were pre-exposed to the footshock chamber (context) and shock stimulus was used unconditioned stimulus. During re-exposure to context, conditioned rats spent 80% of the session in freezing while non-conditioned rats (no shock group) spent less than 15% of the session time in freezing. Conditioned rats had significantly lower activity scores than non-conditioned animals. Exposure to context increased mean arterial pressure (MAP) and heart rate (HR) of both groups. MAP and HR of the conditioned animals were markedly increased and remained at a high and stable level, whereas MAP and HR increases in non-conditioned animals were less pronounced and declined during the session. CoCl(2) microinjected in the vMPFC significantly reduced freezing and attenuated MAP and HR increase of the conditioned group. Cobalt-induced vMPFC inhibition also significantly reduced MAP and HR increase observed in non-conditioned animals, without any behavioral changes. The effect of vMPFC acute ablation on MAP and HR did not seem to be specific to the fear response because they were also evident in non-conditioned animals. The results indicate that vMPFC integrity is crucial for expression of fear-conditioned responses to context, such as freezing and cardiovascular changes, suggesting that fear-conditioned responses to context involve cortical processing prior to amygdalar output. They also indicate a cardiovascular response observed during re-exposure of non-conditioned rats to the context is completely dependent on vMPFC integrity.
In amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) there is a selective degeneration of motor neurons leading to muscle paralysis and death. The mechanism underlying cell demise in ALS is not fully understood, but involves the activation of different proteolytic enzymes, including the caspase family of cysteine proteases. We have here studied whether other proteases, such as the cathepsins, residing in lysosomes, and the cathepsin inhibitors, cystatinB and -C are changed in ALS. The expression and protein levels of the cathepsinB, -L and -D all increased in the spinal cord in ALS mice, carrying the mutant copper/zinc superoxide dismutase (SOD1) gene. At the cellular level, cathepsinB and -L were present in ventral motor neurons in controls, but in the ALS mice cathepsinB was also expressed by glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) positive astrocytes. The distribution of the aspartic protease, cathepsinD also changed in ALS with a loss of the lysosomal staining in motor neurons. Inhibition of caspases by means of X-chromosome-linked inhibitor of apoptosis protein (XIAP) overexpression did not inhibit cleavage of cathepsinD in ALS mice, suggesting a caspase-independent pathway. Expression of cystatinB and -C increased slightly in the ALS spinal cords. Immunostaining showed that in ALS, cystatinC was present in motor neurons and in GFAP positive astrocytes. CystatinB that is a neuroprotective factor decreased in motor neurons in ALS but was expressed by activated microglial cells. The observed changes in the levels and distributions of cathepsinD and cystatinB and-C indicate a role of these proteins in the degeneration of motor neurons in ALS.
Activation of Akt/protein kinase B has been recently reported to play an important role in ischemic tolerance. We here demonstrate that the decreased protein expression and phosphorylation of phosphatase and tensin homolog deleted from chromosome 10 (PTEN) underlie the increased Akt-Ser-473 phosphorylation in the hippocampal CA1 subfield in ischemic preconditioning (IPC). Co-immunoprecipitation analysis reveals that Akt physically interacts with Rac1, a small Rho family GTPase required for mixed lineage kinase 3 (MLK3) autophosphorylation, and both this interaction and Rac1-Ser-71 phosphorylation induced by Akt are promoted in preconditioned rats. In addition, we show that Akt activation results in the disassembly of the plenty of SH3s (POSH)-MLK3-Rac1 signaling complex and down-regulation of the activation of MLK3/c-Jun N-terminal kinase (JNK) pathway. Akt activation results in decreased serine phosphorylation of 14-3-3, a cytoplasmic anchor of Bax, and prevents ischemia-induced mitochondrial translocation of Bax, release of cytochrome c, and activation of caspase-3. The expression of Fas ligand is also decreased in the CA1 region. Akt activation protects against apoptotic neuronal death as shown in TUNEL staining following IPC. Intracerebral infusion of LY294002 before IPC reverses the increase in Akt phosphorylation and the decrease in JNK signaling activation, as well as the neuroprotective action of IPC. Our results suggest that activation of pro-apoptotic MLK3/JNK3 cascade can be suppressed through activating anti-apoptotic phosphoinositide 3-kinase/Akt pathway induced by a sublethal ischemic insult, which provides a functional link between Akt and the JNK family of stress-activated kinases in ischemic tolerance.
Two vestibular pathways converge at the uvula-nodulus to modulate the discharge of Purkinje cell complex and simple spikes (CSs and SSs). In the mouse, vestibular primary afferent mossy fibers originate from each of the end organs of the ipsilateral labyrinth and terminate in the granule cell layers of folia 9c-10. Vestibular climbing fiber projections originate from the contralateral beta-nucleus and dorsomedial cell column (dmcc) and terminate directly on Purkinje cells. CSs and SSs could be regulated independently or they could be co-dependent. Here we examine how the discharges of CSs and SSs are modulated by sinusoidal and static roll-tilt in the uvula-nodulus of mice anesthetized with either chloralose-urethane or ketamine-xylazine. All vestibularly-driven CSs and SSs were sensitive to static roll-tilt. None were sensitive to horizontal vestibular stimulation. CSs were modulated in phase with ipsilateral roll-tilt. SSs were modulated out of phase. Spontaneous discharges of CSs were followed by a pause in SSs. Phase leads of CSs and SSs with respect to sinusoidal roll-tilt were advanced by ketamine-xylazine anesthesia relative to chloralose-urethane anesthesia by approximately 45 degrees. The antiphasic modulation of CSs and SSs was independent of anesthetic. Chloralose-urethane, but not ketamine-xylazine, induced spontaneous oscillations of CSs and SSs in 16% of Purkinje cells. Optimal planes of CSs in folia 9c-10 Purkinje cells were organized topographically into sagittal zones whose widths were approximately 400 microm. Purkinje cells with optimal planes in the posterior quadrant of the ipsilateral hemi-field were located in a medial zone. Purkinje cells with optimal planes in the anterior quadrant of the ipsilateral hemi-field were located in a lateral zone. The CS-associated pause in SSs establishes a vector-specific SS output. The amplitude of SS modulation may depend on parallel fiber-mediated signals to Purkinje cells as well as on the state of cerebellar interneurons.
Schizophrenia is thought to be associated with abnormalities during neurodevelopment although those disturbances usually remain silent until puberty; suggesting that postnatal brain maturation precipitates the emergence of psychosis. In an attempt to model neurodevelopmental defects in the rat, brain cellular proliferation was briefly interrupted with methylazoxymethanol (MAM) during late gestation at embryonic day 17 (E17). The litters were explored at pre- and post-puberty and compared with E17 saline-injected rats. We measured spontaneous and provoked locomotion, working memory test, social interaction, and prepulse inhibition (PPI). As compared with the saline-exposed rats, the E17 MAM-exposed rats exhibited spontaneous hyperactivity that emerged only after puberty. At adulthood, they also exhibited hypersensitivity to the locomotor activating effects of a mild stress and a glutamatergic N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor antagonist (MK-801), as well as PPI deficits whereas before puberty no perturbations were observed. In addition, spatial working memory did not undergo the normal peri-pubertal maturation seen in the sham rats. Social interaction deficits were observed in MAM rats, at both pre- and post-puberty. Our study further confirms that transient prenatal disruption of neurogenesis by MAM at E17 is a valid behavioral model for schizophrenia as it is able to reproduce some fundamental features of schizophrenia with respect to both phenomenology and temporal pattern of the onset of symptoms and deficits.
The loss of dopamine in idiopathic or animal models of Parkinson's disease induces synchronized low-frequency oscillatory burst-firing in subthalamic nucleus neurones. We sought to establish whether these firing patterns observed in vivo were preserved in slices taken from dopamine-depleted animals, thus establishing a role for the isolated subthalamic-globus pallidus complex in generating the pathological activity. Mice treated with 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP) showed significant reductions of over 90% in levels of dopamine as measured in striatum by high pressure liquid chromatography. Likewise, significant reductions in tyrosine hydroxylase immunostaining within the striatum (&gt;90%) and tyrosine hydroxylase positive cell numbers (65%) in substantia nigra were observed. Compared with slices from intact mice, neurones in slices from MPTP-lesioned mice fired significantly more slowly (mean rate of 4.2 Hz, cf. 7.2 Hz in control) and more irregularly (mean coefficient of variation of inter-spike interval of 94.4%, cf. 37.9% in control). Application of ionotropic glutamate receptor antagonists 6-cyano-7-nitroquinoxaline-2,3-dione (CNQX) and 2-amino-5-phosphonopentanoic acid (AP5) and the GABA(A) receptor antagonist picrotoxin caused no change in firing pattern. Bath application of dopamine significantly increased cell firing rate and regularized the pattern of activity in cells from slices from both MPTP-treated and control animals. Although the absolute change was more modest in control slices, the maximum dopamine effect in the two groups was comparable. Indeed, when taking into account the basal firing rate, no differences in the sensitivity to dopamine were observed between these two cohorts. Furthermore, pairs of subthalamic nucleus cells showed no correlated activity in slices from either control (21 pairs) or MPTP-treated animals (20 pairs). These results indicate that the isolated but interconnected subthalamic-globus pallidus network is not itself sufficient to generate the aberrant firing patterns in dopamine-depleted animals. More likely, inputs from other regions, such as the cortex, are needed to generate pathological oscillatory activity.
Intradermal capsaicin injection produces immediate spontaneous pain behaviors, and a secondary mechanical hypersensitivity (SMH) that is employed in the clinic as a model potentially predictive of human neuropathic pain. Presently, we have characterized capsaicin-induced SMH in rats, and compared pharmacological actions of standard analgesics in this and two nerve injury models, the L5/L6 spinal nerve ligation (SNL) and sciatic nerve chronic constriction injury (CCI) models. Intraplantar capsaicin produced dose-related SMH (enhanced paw withdrawal response to von Frey monofilament stimulation at an area away from injection site) that lasted for over 4 h. While pretreatment with a potent selective transient receptor potential vanilloid receptor-1 (TRPV1) antagonist A-425619 (1-isoquinolin-5-yl-3-(4-trifluoromethyl-benzyl)-urea) prevented development of acute nocifensive (flinching) behavior immediately following capsaicin injection (ED(50)=4.9 mg/kg), the compound failed to attenuate the SMH when administered 2 h following capsaicin (10 microg/10 microl). Additional standard analgesics were also tested 3 h following intraplantar capsaicin in the SMH model. Comparison of their potencies in attenuating mechanical hypersensitivity in capsaicin, SNL and CCI models revealed similar ED(50)s for morphine (2.3 mg/kg, 1.6 mg/kg and 3.2 mg/kg, respectively), gabapentin (33.1 mg/kg, 33.9 mg/kg and 26.3 mg/kg, respectively) and lamotrigine (9.1 mg/kg, 8.9 mg/kg and 15.5 mg/kg, respectively). Duloxetine produced 50-65% effect at the highest tested dose (50 mg/kg), whereas the highest tested doses of morphine (10 mg/kg), gabapentin (85.5 mg/kg) and lamotrigine (30 mg/kg) all produced &gt;70% efficacy in capsaicin SMH, SNL and CCI models. In contrast, celecoxib and ibuprofen showed weak effects in all three models. All standard analgesics generally had weak efficacy in attenuating capsaicin-induced immediate acute flinching behavior when administered before capsaicin. These results provide further support to the suggestions that distinct pharmacological mechanisms underlie capsaicin-induced acute nocifensive and SMH behaviors, and certain neuronal mechanisms underlying neuropathic pain states are also contributory to capsaicin-induced SMH.
Recently identified cellular and molecular correlates of stress-induced plasticity suggest a putative link between neuronal remodeling in the amygdala and the development of anxiety-like behavior. Rodent models of immobilization stress, applied for 10 consecutive days, have been reported to enhance anxiety, and also cause dendritic elongation and spine formation in the basolateral amygdala (BLA). Paradoxically, longer exposure to stress, which is also anxiogenic, fails to affect key molecular markers of neuronal remodeling in the BLA. This has raised the possibility of homeostatic mechanisms being triggered by more prolonged stress that could potentially dampen the morphological effects of stress in the BLA. Therefore, we examined the cellular and behavioral impact of increasing the duration of stress in rats. We find that prolonged immobilization stress (PIS), spanning 21 days, caused significant enhancement in dendritic arborization of spiny BLA neurons. Spine density was also enhanced along these elongated dendrites in response to PIS. Finally, this striking increase in synaptic connectivity was accompanied by enhanced anxiety-like behavior in the elevated plus-maze. Thus, we did not detect any obvious morphological correlate of adaptive changes within the BLA that may have been activated by prolonged and repeated application of the same stressor for 21 days. These findings add to accumulating evidence that structural encoding of aversive experiences, through enhanced availability of postsynaptic dendritic surface and synaptic inputs on principal neurons of the BLA, may contribute to the affective symptoms of stress disorders.
The encoding of photoperiodic information ensues in terms of the daily profile in the expression of cyclic AMP (cAMP)-inducible genes such as the arylalkylamine N-acetyltransferase (AA-NAT) gene that encodes the rate-limiting enzyme in melatonin formation. In the present study, we compared the influence of the photoperiodic history on the cAMP-inducible genes AA-NAT, inducible cyclic AMP early repressor (ICER), fos-related antigen-2 (FRA-2), mitogen-activated protein kinase phosphatase-1 (MKP-1), nerve growth factor inducible gene-A (NGFI-A) and nerve growth factor inducible gene-B (NGFI-B) in the pineal gland of rats. For this purpose, we monitored the daily profiles of each gene in the same pineal gland under a long (light/dark 16:8) and a short (light/dark 8:16) photoperiod by measuring the respective mRNA amounts by real-time polymerase chain reaction analysis. We found that, for all genes under investigation, the duration of increased nocturnal expression is lengthened and, in relation to light onset, the nocturnal rise is earlier under the long photoperiod (light/dark 16:8). Furthermore, with the exception of ICER, all other cAMP-inducible genes tend to display higher maximum expression under light/dark 8:16 than under light/dark 16:8. Photoperiod-dependent changes persist for all of the cAMP-inducible genes when the rats are kept for two cycles under constant darkness. Therefore, all cAMP-inducible genes are also influenced by the photoperiod of prior entrained cycles. Our study indicates that, despite differences regarding the expressional control and the temporal phasing of the daily profile, cAMP-inducible genes are uniformly influenced by photoperiodic history in the rat pineal gland.
Chromaffin cells of the adrenal medulla represent a primary output of the sympathetic nervous system. Their electrical stimulation evokes the fusion of large dense core granules with the cell membrane and the exocytic release of multiple transmitter molecules into the circulation. There the transmitters contribute to the regulation of basic metabolism of the organism. Under physiological activity, granule fusion and transmitter release are limited by activity-dependent Ca(2+) influx, entering through multiple isoforms of voltage-gated calcium channels. In this study we utilize perforated-patch voltage-clamp recordings and depolarize mouse chromaffin cells in situ with action potential-like waveforms to mimic physiological firing. We measure calcium influx through specific isoforms and measure cell capacitance as an index of granule fusion. Combining these approaches we calculate specific stimulus-secretion efficiencies for L-type, N-type, P/Q-type and R-type calcium channels under varied physiological activity levels. Current influx through all channel subtypes exhibited an activity-dependent depression. As expected P/Q-type channels, while responsible for modest Ca(2+) influx, are tightly coupled to catecholamine secretion under all conditions. We further find that stimulation designed to match sympathetic input under the acute stress response recruits L-type channels to a state of enhanced stimulus-secretion efficiency. N- and R-type channels do not undergo activity-dependent recruitment and remain loosely coupled to the secretion. Thus, only L-type channels exhibit activity-dependent changes in their stimulus-secretion function under physiological stimulation. Lastly, we show that treatment with the beta-adrenergic agonist, isoproterenol, specifically blocks the increase in the stimulus-secretion function of L-type channels. Thus, increased cell firing specifically enhances stimulus-secretion coupling of L-type Ca(2+) channels in chromaffin cells in situ. This mechanism is regulated by an adrenergic signaling pathway.
Magnetoencephalography (MEG) is a noninvasive neuroimaging method for detecting, analyzing, and interpreting the magnetic field generated by the electrical activity in the brain. Modern hardware can capture the MEG signal at hundreds of points around the head in a snapshot lasting only a fraction of a millisecond. The sensitivity of modern hardware is high enough to permit the extraction of a clean signal generated by the brain well above the noise level of the MEG hardware. It is possible to identify signatures of superficial and often deep generators in the raw MEG signal, even in snapshots of data. In a more quantitative way, tomographic images of the electrical current density in the brain can be extracted from each snapshot of MEG signal, providing a direct correlate of coherent collective neuronal activity. A number of recent studies have scrutinized brain function in the new spatiotemporal window that real-time tomographic analysis of MEG signals has opened. The results have allowed the variability in a single area to be seen in the context of activity in other areas and background rhythmic activity. In this view, normal brain function is seen as a cascade of extremely fast events and the unfolding of specialized processes, segregated in space and time and organized into well-defined stages of processing.
Hedonic &quot;liking&quot; for sensory pleasures is an important aspect of reward, and excessive 'liking' of particular rewards might contribute to excessive consumption and to disorders such as obesity. The present review aims to summarize recent advances in the identification of brain substrates for food 'liking' with a focus on opioid hot spots in the nucleus accumbens and ventral pallidum. Drug microinjection studies have shown that opioids in both areas amplify the 'liking' of sweet taste rewards. Modern neuroscience tools such as Fos plume mapping have further identified hedonic hot spots within the accumbens and pallidum, where opioids are especially tuned to magnify 'liking' of food rewards. Hedonic hot spots in different brain structures may interact with each other within the larger functional circuitry that interconnects them. Better understanding of how brain hedonic hot spots increase the positive affective impact of natural sensory pleasures will help characterize the neural mechanisms potentially involved in 'liking' for many rewards.
The notion that a good night of sleep improves memory is widely accepted by the general public. Among sleep scientists, however, the idea has been hotly debated for decades. In this review, the authors consider current evidence for and against the hypothesis that sleep facilitates memory consolidation and promotes plastic changes in the brain. They find that despite a steady accumulation of positive findings over the past decade, the precise role of sleep in memory and brain plasticity remains elusive. This impasse may be resolved by more integrated approaches that combine behavioral and neurophysiological measurements in well-described in vivo models of synaptic plasticity.
Friedrich-Christian Rosenthal was a prominent German anatomist and surgeon. He was born in Greifswald, Germany on June 3, 1780. In his time, he was best known for his work on the olfactory system and ichthyology. However, his late work also led to his description of the eponymous canal in the cochlea and basal cerebral vein. After an itinerant academic, military, and professional career, he died of tuberculosis in Greifswald on December 5, 1829, working to the end on an unfinished treatise on the anatomy of the brain and cranial nerves.

Neurotoxins represent unique chemical tools, providing a means to 1) gain insight into cellular mechanisms of apopotosis and necrosis, 2) achieve a morphological template for studies otherwise unattainable, 3) specifically produce a singular phenotype of denervation, and 4) provide the starting point to delve into processes and mechanisms of nerve regeneration and sprouting. There are many other notable uses of neurotoxins in neuroscience research, and ever more being discovered each year. The objective of this review paper is to highlight the broad areas of neuroscience in which neurotoxins and neurotoxicity mechanism come into play. This shifts the focus away from neurotoxins per se, and onto the major problems under study today. Neurotoxins broadly defined are used to explore neurodegenerative disorders, psychiatric disorders and substance use disorders. Neurotoxic mechanisms relating to protein aggregates are indigenous to Alzheimer disease, Parkinson's disease. NeuroAIDS is a disorder in which microglia and macrophages have enormous import. The gap between the immune system and nervous system has been bridged, as neuroinflammation is now considered to be part of the neurodegenerative process. Related mechanisms now arise in the process of neurogenesis. Accordingly, the entire spectrum of neuroscience is within the purview of neurotoxins and neurotoxicity mechanisms. Highlights on discoveries in the areas noted, and on selective neurotoxins, are included, mainly from the past 2 to 3 years.
The developing brain is highly sensitive to methylmercury (MeHg). Still, the initial changes in cell proliferation that may contribute to long-term MeHg effects are largely undefined. Our previous studies with growth factors indicate that acute alterations of the G1/S-phase transition can permanently affect cell numbers and organ size. Therefore, we determined whether an environmental toxicant could also impact brain development with rapid (6-7h) effects on DNA synthesis and cell cycle machinery in neuronal precursors. In vivo studies in newborn rat hippocampus and cerebellum, two regions of postnatal neurogenesis, were followed by in vitro analysis of two precursor models, cortical and cerebellar cells, focusing on the proteins that regulate the G1/S transition. In postnatal day 7 (P7) pups, a single subcutaneous injection of MeHg (3microg/g) acutely (7h) decreased DNA synthesis in the hippocampus by 40% and produced long-term (2 weeks) reductions in total cell number, estimated by DNA quantification. Surprisingly, cerebellar granule cells were resistant to MeHg effects in vivo at comparable tissue concentrations, suggesting region-specific differences in precursor populations. In vitro, MeHg altered proliferation and cell viability, with DNA synthesis selectively inhibited at an early timepoint (6h) corresponding to our in vivo observations. Considering that G1/S regulators are targets of exogenous signals, we used a well-defined cortical cell model to examine MeHg effects on relevant cyclin-dependent kinases (CDK) and CDK inhibitors. At 6h, MeHg decreased by 75% levels of cyclin E, a cell cycle regulator with roles in proliferation and apoptosis, without altering p57, p27, or CDK2 nor levels of activated caspase 3. In aggregate, our observations identify the G1/S transition as an early target of MeHg toxicity and raise the possibility that cyclin E degradation contributes to both decreased proliferation and eventual cell death.
Gestational exposure to environmental contaminants such as 2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD) poses a significant threat to normal growth and differentiation of the developing brain. To characterize the impact of gestational TCDD exposure on subsequent cortical function, pregnant Long Evans rats were exposed to a single acute dose (100 or 700ng/kg b.w. via gavage) on gestational day 15. This dosing regimen had no significant effect on birth index. After the TCDD-exposed animals were born and reached maturity, neural activity was recorded under urethane anesthesia from neurons in primary somatic sensory cortex. Spontaneous activity was reduced by approximately 50% in barrel cortex compared to corn oil vehicle controls. The magnitude of neuronal response to sensory (whisker) stimuli also was significantly reduced, and responses did not achieve control levels at any stimulus intensity. The greatest deficit was in the short latency component of the cortical responses. These decrements in cortical responsiveness were present in young F1 generation TCDD-exposed animals and persisted for up to 180 days. Because glutamate receptors are crucial to the evoked responses and show developmental regulation, selected iontotropic glutamate receptor subunits (NMDA NR2A+NR2B and GluR1) were profiled for RNA levels in the cortex of F1 generation rats. The expression of NR2B (NMDA receptor) and GluR1 (AMPA receptor) subunits was significantly reduced in the TCDD-exposed F1 generation animals compared to vehicle controls. The results indicate that gestational TCDD exposure results in cortical deficits that are paralled by diminished expression of certain NMDA and AMPA receptor subunits at a time when synapses are being formed for the first time in cortex.
Cisplatin has been in use for 40 years, primarily for treatment of ovarian and testicular cancer. Oxaliplatin is the only effective treatment for metastatic colorectal cancer. Neurotoxicity occurs in up to 30% of patients and is dose-limiting for both drugs. The neuropathy is characterized by selective sensory loss in the extremities. Cisplatin treatment is associated with high levels of Pt-DNA binding and apoptosis of dorsal root ganglion (DRG) neurons. In this study, we directly compared the effects of oxaliplatin on DRG in vitro. Compared with cisplatin, oxaliplatin formed fewer Pt-DNA adducts following 6, 12, 24, and 48h (0.007ng Pt/mug DNA, 0.012ng/microg, 0.011ng/microg, 0.011ng/microg versus 0.014ng/microg, 0.022ng/microg, 0.041ng/microg, 0.030ng/microg), respectively. These findings closely correlated with data on cell survival where equimolar concentrations of oxaliplatin induced less cell death than cisplatin. Oxaliplatin-induced DRG death was associated with the morphological characteristics of apoptosis defined by 4'-6-diamidino-2-phenylindole and annexin/propidium iodide staining. Death was completely inhibited by the caspase inhibitor z-VAD-fmk. Our results demonstrate that both compounds cause apoptosis of DRG neurons but compared to cisplatin, oxaliplatin forms fewer Pt-DNA adducts and is less neurotoxic to DRG neurons in vitro.



Co-registered optical coherence tomography (OCT) and video microscopy of the rat somatosensory cortex were acquired simultaneously through a thinned skull during forepaw electrical stimulation. Fractional signal change measured by OCT revealed a functional signal time course corresponding to the hemodynamic signal measurement made with video microscopy. OCT can provide high-resolution, cross-sectional images of functional neurovascular activation and may offer a new tool for basic neuroscience research in the important rat cerebral cortex model.
The search for traces of past and present life is a complex and multidisciplinary research activity involving several scientific heritages and a specific industrial ability for planetary exploration. Laben was established in 1958 to design and manufacture electronic instruments for research in nuclear physics. In the mid 2004 the company was merged with Alenia Spazio. It is now part of Alcatel Alenia Space, a French Italian joint venture. Alcatel Alenia Space Italia SpA is a Finmeccanica Company. Currently the plant of Vimodrone provides a wide heritage in life science oriented to space application. The experience in Space Life Science is consolidated in the following research areas: (1) Physiology: Mouse models related to studies on human physiology Human neuroscience research and dosimetry (2) Animal Adaptation and Behaviour: mice behaviour related to stabling stress (3) Developmental Biology: aquatic microorganisms cultivation (4) Cell culture &amp; Biotechnology: Protein crystal growth General purpose Multiwell Next Biotechnology studies and development: Bio reactor, mainly oriented to tissue engineering Microsensor for tissue control (organ replacement) Multiwell for adherent cell culture or for automated biosensor based on cell culture Experiment Container for organic systems Experiment Container for small animals Instrumentation based on fluorescent Biosensors Sensors for Life science experiments for Biopan capsule and Space Vehicle Ray Shielding Materials Random Positioning Machine specialisation (Support ground equipment) The biological features of this heritage is at disposal for the exobiology multi science. The involvement of industries, from the beginning of the exobiology projects, allows a cost effective technologies closed loop development between Research Centres, Principal Investigators and industry.
Converging information on medical issues, motor ability, and cognitive outcomes is essential when addressing long-term clinical management in children with holoprosencephaly. This study considered whether adding more informative structural indices to classic holoprosencephaly categories would increase prediction of cognitive outcomes. Forty-two children with holoprosencephaly were examined to determine the association of deep gray nuclei abnormalities with cognitive abilities and the effect of motor skill deficits on cognitive performance. Additionally, a cognitive profile was described using the Carter Neurocognitive Assessment, an experimental diagnostic instrument designed specifically for young children with severe neurodevelopmental dysfunction. Findings indicated that nonseparation of the deep gray nuclei was significantly associated with the cognitive construct of vocal communication, but not with the cognitive constructs of social awareness, visual attention, or auditory comprehension. Importantly, motor skill deficits did not significantly affect performance on the Carter Neurocognitive Assessment. This study is the first investigation to provide a descriptive overview of specific cognitive skills in this group of children. The results also strongly suggest that this feature of the brain's structure does not predict all aspects of neurodevelopmental function. These findings contribute a critical component to the growing body of knowledge regarding the medical and clinical outcomes of children with holoprosencephaly.
Previous studies suggested that electroacupuncture (EA) can suppress opioid dependence by the release of endogenous opioid peptides. To explore the site of action and the receptors involved, we tried to inject highly specific agonists for mu-, delta- and kappa-opioid receptors into the CNS to test whether it can suppress morphine-induced conditioned place preference (CPP) in the rat. Male Sprague-Dawley rats were trained with 4 mg/kg morphine, i.p. for 4 days to establish the CPP model. This CPP can be prevented by (a) i.p. injection of 3 mg/kg dose of morphine, (b) intracerebroventricular (i.c.v.) injection of micrograms doses of the selective mu-opioid receptor agonist DAMGO, delta-agonist DPDPE or kappa-agonist U-50,488H or (c) microinjection of DAMGO, DPDPE or U50488H into the shell of the nucleus accumbens (NAc). The results suggest that the release of endogenous mu-, delta- and kappa-opioid agonists in the NAc shell may play a role for EA suppression of opiate addiction.
beta-Lactotensin (beta-LT) is a bioactive peptide derived from bovine milk beta-lactoglobulin and is a natural ligand for neurotensin receptors. We examined the effect of beta-LT on restraint stress and fear memory in mice. Mice subjected to acute restraint stress exhibited a decreased number of head-dips and increased head-dip latency compared to non-stressed controls in the hole-board test, reflecting increased stress-induced behaviors. However, prior administration of beta-LT improved the behaviors caused by stress. The anti-stress effect of beta-LT was blocked by levocabastine, a neurotensin receptor subtype 2 (NTR2) antagonist. In the fear-conditioning test, the duration of freezing responses by cued fear conditioning was significantly reduced in mice administered beta-LT compared with control mice. These results suggest that beta-LT has an anti-stress effect and promotes the extinction of fear memory, which may be mediated by NTR2.
Knockout and pharmacological studies demonstrated that the activation of delta opioid peptide (DOP) receptors produces antidepressant-like effects in rodents. Here we report the results obtained with the novel DOP ligand H-Dmt-Tic-NH-CH(2)-Bid (UFP-502). UFP-502 bound with high affinity (pK(i) 9.43) to recombinant DOP receptors displaying moderate selectivity over MOP and KOP. In CHO(hDOP) [(35)S]GTPgammaS binding and mouse vas deferens experiments, UFP-502 behaved as a potent (pEC(50) 10.09 and 10.70, respectively) full agonist. In these preparations, naloxone, naltrindole and N,N(CH(3))(2)Dmt-Tic-OH showed similar pA(2) values against UFP-502 and DPDPE and the same rank order of potency. In vivo in mice, UFP-502 mimicked DPDPE actions, producing a significant reduction of immobility time after intracerebroventricular administration in the forced swimming test and a clear antinociceptive effect after intrathecal injection in the tail withdrawal assay. However, while the effects of DPDPE were fully prevented by naltrindole those evoked by UFP-502 were unaffected (tail withdrawal assay) or only partially reversed (forced swimming test). In conclusion, UFP-502 represents a novel and useful chemical template for the design of selective agonists for the DOP receptor.
The effects of sustained leptin action locally in the hypothalamus on the functional link between fat accrual and insulin secretion after chronic high fat diet (HFD) consumption in leptin-deficient ob/ob mice, and on the post-prandial insulin response in rats consuming regular chow diet (RCD), was examined in this study. A single intracerebroventricular (icv) injection of recombinant adeno-associated virus vector encoding leptin gene (rAAV-lep) enhanced hypothalamic leptin-transgene expression in ob/ob mice consuming RCD and suppressed the time-related weight gain and fat accumulation concomitant with abrogation of hyperinsulinemia and enhanced glucose tolerance. This increased hypothalamic leptin-transgene expression continued to impose insulinopenia and increased glucose tolerance but was ineffective in suppressing weight gain and fat accumulation after these mice were switched to chronic HFD consumption. A similar icv rAAV-lep pretreatment in rats consuming RCD markedly attenuated the post-prandial rise in insulin release concomitant with suppressed weight and fat depots. These results show for the first time that a sustained hypothalamic leptin action can stably clamp pancreatic insulin secretion independent of the status of fat accrual engendered by diets of varying caloric enrichment. Thus, the efficacy of increased leptin afferent signaling in the hypothalamus to persistently restrain pancreatic insulin release and insulin resistance can be explored as an adjunct therapeutic modality to alleviate pathophysiological derrangements that confer type 2 diabetes.
Psychotherapeutic outpatients (10 men, 20 women) were tested with the Inner Images of Parental Figures. Each subject imagined first his mother and then his father. Questions were asked about size, look, and spatial and emotional distance of the imagined parent. The patient was then asked to describe the personality of each parent by underlining at least 20 of 85 adjectives in a list called Family Climate Scale. This originally consisted of four factors, Closeness, Spontaneity, Distance, and Chaos, but the two administered were Factor I (positive traits) and Factor II (negative traits). Emotional distance correlated positively with Factor I and negatively with Factor II. For the maternal figure there was a correlation with distance in metres and Factor I scores. The Inner Images of Parental Figures may be a valuable complement in psychotherapy, mapping out emotional relations between patients and their parents.
The purpose of this study was to investigate the effects of imagining favorable or unfavorable foods on the amplitude of EGG recordings. 40 subjects were assigned to Favorable food and Unfavorable food groups in which they were asked to imagine eating a list of favorable foods or unfavorable foods. Subjects sat in a chair for 16 min, of baseline measurement prior to the 16 min. of food imagining. Electrogastrographic (EGG) activities were recorded continuously throughout. Using Fast Fourier Transform analysis, the spectral power of EGG activity of 3 cycles per minute (cpm) was calculated, and the ratios of EGG 3 cpm spectral power for the period of food imagining and baseline were obtained. The EGG amplitude at 3 cpm during imagining eating a list of unfavorable food was significantly lower than that of the baseline period and the EGG ratio between the food-imagining and baseline periods was significantly lower in the Unfavorable group than in the Favorable food group. It appears that imagining eating unfavorable food significantly inhibited gastric motility as indexed by decreased power of EGG activities at 3 cpm.
After formation of the giga-seal, the membrane patch can be stimulated by hydrostatic or osmotic pressure gradients applied across the patch. This feature led to the discovery of stretch-sensitive or mechanosensitive (MS) channels, which are now known to be ubiquitously expressed in cells representative of all the living kingdoms. In addition to mechanosensation, MS channels have been implicated in many basic cell functions, including regulation of cell volume, shape, and motility. The successful cloning, overexpression, and crystallization of bacterial MS channel proteins combined with patch clamp and modeling studies have provided atomic insight into the working of these nanomachines. In particular, studies of MS channels have revealed new understanding of how the lipid bilayer modulates membrane protein function. Three major membrane protein families, transient receptor potential, 2 pore domain K(+), and the epithelial Na(+) channels, have been shown to form MS channels in animal cells, and their polymodal activation embrace fields far beyond mechanosensitivity. The discovery of new drugs highly selective for MS channels (&quot;mechanopharmaceutics&quot;) and the demonstration of MS channel involvement in several major human diseases (&quot;mechanochannelopathies&quot;) provide added motivation for devising new techniques and approaches for studying MS channels.
This review focuses on the use of imaging techniques to record electrical signaling in the fine processes of neurons such as dendrites and axons. Voltage imaging began with the use and development of externally applied voltage-sensitive dyes. With the introduction of internally applied dyes and advances in detection technology, it is now possible to record supra-threshold action potential responses, as well as sub-threshold synaptic potentials, in fine neuronal processes including dendritic spines. The development of genetically coded sensors, as well as variants of laser scanning microscopy such as second harmonic generation, offers promise for further advances in this field. Through the use and further development of these methods, optical imaging of membrane potential will continue to be a valuable tool for investigators wishing to explore the electrical events underlying single neuronal computation.
T-type channels are transient low-voltage-activated (LVA) Ca(2+) channels that control Ca(2+) entry in excitable cells during small depolarizations around resting potential. Studies in the past 20 years focused on the biophysical, physiological, and molecular characterization of T-type channels in most tissues. This led to a well-defined picture of the functional role of LVA channels in controlling low-threshold spikes, oscillatory cell activity, muscle contraction, hormone release, cell growth and differentiation. So far, little attention has been devoted to the role of T-type channels in transmitter release, which mainly involves channel types belonging to the high-voltage-activated (HVA) Ca(2+) channel family. However, evidence is accumulating in favor of a unique participation of T-type channels in fast transmitter release. Clear data are now reported in reciprocal synapses of the retina and olfactory bulb, synaptic contacts between primary afferent and second order nociceptive neurons, rhythmic inhibitory interneurons of invertebrates and clonal cell lines transfected with recombinant alpha(1) channel subunits. T-type channels also regulate the large dense-core vesicle release of neuroendocrine cells where Ca(2+) dependence, rate of vesicle release, and size of readily releasable pool appear comparable to those associated to HVA channels. This suggests that when sufficiently expressed and properly located near the release zones, T-type channels can trigger fast low-threshold secretion. In this study, we will review the main findings that assign a specific task to T-type channels in fast exocytosis, discussing their possible involvement in the control of the Ca(2+)-dependent processes regulating exocytosis like vesicle depletion and vesicle recycling.
In this article we discuss the experimental advantages that the vibrissal motor system offers for analysis of motor control and the specializations of this system related to the unique characteristics of whisker movements. Whisker movements are often rhythmic, fast, and bilateral. Movements of individual whiskers have simple characteristics, whereas, movements of the entire vibrissae array are complex and sophisticated. In the last few years, powerful methods for high precision tracking of whisker movements have become available. The whisker musculature is arranged to permit forward movements of individual whiskers and consists-depending on the species-mainly or exclusively of fast contracting, fast fatigable muscle fibers. Whisker motor neurons are located in the lateral facial nucleus and their cellular properties might contribute to the rhythmicity of whisking. Numerous structures provide input to the lateral facial nucleus, the most mysterious and important one being the putative central pattern generator (CPG). Although recent studies identified candidate structures for the CPG, the precise identity and the functional organization of this structure remains uncertain. The vibrissa motor cortex (VMC) is the largest motor representation in the rodent brain, and recent work has clarified its localization, subdivisions, cytoarchitectonics, and connectivity. Single-cell stimulation experiments in VMC allow determining the cellular basis of cortical motor control with unprecedented precision. The functional significance of whisker movements remains to be determined.
Mice selectively bred for divergent sensitivity to the locomotor stimulant effects of ethanol (FAST and SLOW) also differ in their locomotor response to morphine. The GABA(B) receptor has been implicated in the mediation of locomotor stimulation to both ethanol and morphine, and a reduction in ethanol-induced stimulation has been found with the GABA(B) receptor agonist baclofen in FAST mice. We hypothesized that GABA(B) receptor activation would also attenuate the locomotor stimulant responses to morphine in these mice. In order to test this hypothesis, baclofen was administered to FAST-1 and FAST-2 mice 15 min prior to morphine, and activity was recorded for 30 min. Baclofen attenuated stimulation to 32 mg/kg morphine in FAST-1 mice, but only at a dose that also reduced saline activity. There was no stimulant response to 32 mg/kg morphine in FAST-2 mice, or to 16 mg/kg or 48 mg/kg morphine in FAST-1 mice, but the combination of baclofen with these morphine doses accentuated locomotor activity. Therefore, it appears that GABA(B) receptor activation is not a common mechanism for the locomotor stimulant responses to ethanol and morphine in FAST mice; however, these data suggest that GABA(B) receptor activation may instead enhance some of the behavioral effects of morphine.
Inhibitors of the enzyme fatty acid amide hydrolase (FAAH), the principal enzyme involved in the metabolism of the endogenous cannabinoid anandamide, have potential utility in the treatment of disorders including inflammation and inflammatory pain. The carbamate compound URB597 (3'-carbamoyl-biphenyl-3-yl-cyclohexylcarbamate) potently and selectively inhibits FAAH by forming a covalent bond with a key serine residue of the enzyme. Little is known as to the pH dependency of this inhibition. Using a preincubation time of 10min, URB597 inhibited rat brain anandamide hydrolysis with pI(50) values of 7.19+/-0.02 and 7.75+/-0.06 at pH 6 and 8, respectively. The inhibition was time-dependent, and second order rate constants of approximately 0.15x10(6)M(-1)min(-1) (pH 6) and approximately 1.2x10(6)M(-1)min(-1) (pH 8) could be estimated. In intact C6 glioma cells and using a preincubation time of 10min, URB597 inhibited the hydrolysis of 250nM [(3)H]AEA hydrolysis with pI(50) values of 5.58+/-0.07 and 6.45+/-0.07 at extracellular pH values of 6 and 8, respectively. Since tissue pH is affected by inflammation, these data would suggest that the pH selectivity of the inhibition can contribute to the potency of the compound in vivo.
Central nervous system (CNS) drug discovery in the post-genomic era is rapidly evolving. Older empirical methods are giving way to newer technologies that include bioinformatics, structural biology, genetics, and modern computational approaches. In the search for new medical therapies, and in particular treatments for disorders of the central nervous system, there has been increasing recognition that identification of a single biological target is unlikely to be a recipe for success; a broad perspective is required. Systems biology is one such approach, and has been increasingly recognized as a very important area of research, as it places specific molecular targets within a context of overall biochemical action. Understanding the complex interactions between the components within a given biological system that lead to modifications in output, such as changes in behavior or development, may be important avenues of discovery to identify new therapies. One avenue to drug discovery that holds tremendous potential is the use of model genetic organisms such as the fruit fly, Drosophila melanogaster. The similarity between mode of drug action, behavior, and gene response in D. melanogaster and mammalian systems, combined with the power of genetics, have recently made the fly a very attractive system to study fundamental neuropharmacological processes relevant to human diseases. The promise that the use of model organisms such as the fly offers is speed, high throughput, and dramatically reduced overall costs that together should result in an enhanced rate of discovery.
A number of neuronal functions, including synaptic plasticity, depend on proper regulation of synaptic proteins, many of which can be rapidly regulated by phosphorylation. Neuronal activity controls the function of these synaptic proteins by exquisitely regulating the balance of various protein kinase and protein phosphatase activity. Recent understanding of synaptic plasticity mechanisms underscores important roles that these synaptic phosphoproteins play in regulating both pre- and post-synaptic functions. This review will focus on key postsynaptic phosphoproteins that have been implicated to play a role in synaptic plasticity.
Sleep disorders are more prevalent in women than in men. Sex hormones modulate sleep-wake behaviors and mood and may contribute to heightened risk across the life cycle of women. Sleep disorders may have a unique expression in women, emerging throughout their reproductive life cycle. These conditions require careful treatment strategy to manage medical, hormonal, and behavioral contributing factors to poor sleep efficiency and impaired quality of life. This review focuses on clinical evidence for sleep disorders in women and discusses existing evidence of risk factors and treatment options for insomnia and sleep-disordered breathing in women.
Sleep is a vital, highly organized process regulated by complex systems of neuronal networks and neurotransmitters. Sleep plays an important role in the regulation of central nervous system and body physiologic functions. Sleep architecture changes with age and is easily susceptible to external and internal disruption. Reduction or disruption of sleep can affect numerous functions varying from thermoregulation to learning and memory during the waking state.

Objective: This study investigated the therapeutic potential of initiating treatment of generalized anxiety disorder (GAD) with alprazolam orally disintegrating tablets (ODT) in combination with an SSRI or SNRI, compared with SSRI/SNRI monotherapy.Design: Subjects were randomized to eight weeks open-label treatment with alprazolam ODT (4 weeks treatment followed by a 3- to 4-week taper) combined with an SSRI or SNRI, or treatment with SSRI/SNRI alone.Setting: The study was conducted at 43 primary care and 22 psychiatric practices under naturalistic conditions.Participants: Subjects  18 years of age with a primary diagnosis of GAD.Measurements: The primary efficacy measure was time to response, a 50-percent decrease from baseline in Hamilton Rating Scale for Anxiety (HAM-A) total score. Secondary variables included HAM-A total and sub-factor scores, and the Clinical Global Impression of Improvement (CGI-I) and Patient Global Impression (PGI) scales.Results: The intent-to-treat population included 129 subjects. Discontinuation due to adverse events occurred in one subject in each group. There was no statistical difference between groups in the primary efficacy variable of time to response on the HAM-A. Combination treatment with alprazolam ODT and SSRI/SNRI was associated with statistically significant advantages on prespecified secondary variables including earlier improvement in the HAM-A total score and insomnia item and responses on the CGI-I and PGI scales.Conclusion: Combination treatment did not differ from monotherapy on time to response but was associated with more rapid improvement in insomnia and global secondary measures.
The purpose of the present paper was to develop a cognitive training program for patients with obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD) and evaluate its effectiveness. Nine 60-min sessions focusing on the improvement of organizational strategies were given to 15 patients with OCD over a period of 5 weeks. The control group consisted of 15 age- and sex-matched patients also with OCD. The Rey-Osterrieth Complex Figure Test and Korean-California Verbal Learning Test were administered before and after cognitive training. Clinical symptoms were assessed with the Yale-Brown Obsessive-Compulsive Scale. The memory function in the treatment group improved and their clinical symptoms were alleviated after training, compared to those of the control group. Cognitive training of OCD patients not only improved their memory function, but also alleviated their clinical symptoms. Therefore, cognitive training, focusing on the improvement of organizational strategies, could be an effective treatment modality for patients with OCD.
Several functional neuroimaging studies have implicated the cerebellar vermis in post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD), but there have been no structural neuroimaging studies of this brain structure in PTSD. We utilized magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) with manual tracing to quantify the volumes of three divisions of the mid-sagittal vermis, and their total, within an identical, co-twin control design that employed Vietnam veterans discordant for combat exposure in Vietnam. Each structure's volume was significantly correlated between twins, indicating a partial familial determination: for anterior superior vermis, r=0.73; for posterior superior vermis, r=0.47; for inferior posterior vermis, r=0.51; and for total vermis, r=0.57. There were no significant differences between the PTSD and non-PTSD veterans for any vermis volume, and no significant main effects or interactions when their non-combat-exposed co-twins were added to the analyses. Thus, the results do not support the structural abnormality of cerebellar vermis in combat-related PTSD.
The aim was to test the dopamine hypothesis of schizophrenia in a further analysis of D(2)-like dopamine binding using the radioligand [(11)C]raclopride and high resolution 3-dimensional (3D) PET. Eighteen drug-naive patients with schizophrenia and seventeen control subjects were examined. The D(2) binding potential (BP) in the putamen, the caudate and the thalamus was calculated using the simplified reference tissue model. The volume of regions of interest was controlled for by MRI. Symptoms were rated with the Positive and Negative Syndrome Scale for Schizophrenia (PANSS). No significant group differences were found for D(2) BP in the putamen or in the caudate and there was no significant hemispheric difference for any region. In the right thalamus the D(2) BP was significantly lower in patients as compared to control subjects, whereas a numerical difference did not reach statistical significance for the left thalamus. There was no significant correlation between D(2) BP and total PANSS score in any region. There was a highly significant age effect in the caudate and in the putamen, but not in the thalamus. In this relatively large PET study of exclusively drug-naive schizophrenic patients, a lower D(2) BP in the right thalamus was found in the patient group. This finding is in agreement with two previous studies in Sweden and in Japan using the high-affinity radioligand [(11)C]FLB 457 and provide further support for a role of dopamine in the thalamus related to the pathophysiology of schizophrenia.
This multi-voxel, phosphorus magnetic resonance spectroscopy ((31)P MRS) study examined the prefrontal cortex (PFC), basal ganglia (BG) and superior temporal (ST) region in 10 children with attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) and 15 healthy controls. ADHD patients had lower PFC and BG phosphomonoester (PME) levels compared to healthy children. No differences were noted in the ST. These deficits in membrane phospholipid (MPL) precursor levels suggest reduced mass of cellular MPLs due to a possible underdevelopment of neuronal processes and synapses in ADHD.
Precise rules for locating the anatomical boundaries of the dorsolateral prefrontal cortex (DLPFC) or its subdivisions, i.e., superior, inferior and middle frontal gyri (SFG, IFG and MFG) on magnetic resonance images (MRI), have not been defined. The present study describes the inter-rater reliability of manual segmentation of the SFG, IFG and MFG using guidelines based on sulcal-gyral anatomical boundaries as well as the cytoarchitectonic features of the sub-regions of the prefrontal cortex (PFC). Variations in the application of these guidelines in different subjects to account for normal sulcal variability were developed using the atlas of Ono et al. (Ono, M., Kubik, S., Abernathey, C.D., 1990. Atlas of the Cerebral Sulci. Georg Thieme Verlag, New York). Based on previous cytoarchitectonic studies, the coronal plane of the anterior termination of olfactory sulcus (ATOS) was used as a landmark for delimiting the boundary between the frontal pole (FP) and the frontal gyri. The left hemisphere gray-matter volumes of the SFG, IFG and MFG were determined using a set of 10 MRIs (5 normal and 5 schizophrenia subjects) by two trained raters independently. The intra-class correlation coefficients (ICC) for the SFG, IFG and MFG volumes by the two raters were 0.97, 0.94 and 0.93, respectively. Thus, we describe a reliable method of parcellating the SFG, IFG and MFG, which constitute the DLPFC, a brain region involved in a variety of neuropsychiatric conditions.
The cause of premenstrual dysphoric disorder (PMDD) is largely unknown. It has been hypothesized that normal ovarian function triggers PMDD-related biochemical events within the brain and that serotonin plays an important role. In the present study, positron emission tomography (PET) and [carbonyl-(11)C]WAY-100635 were used to examine serotonin 5-HT(1A) receptors in a control group of women and in a group of women with PMDD. Two PET examinations were performed in each subject, one before (follicular phase) and one after ovulation (luteal phase). Each subject's menstrual cycle was confirmed by ultrasonography of the ovaries as well as with hormone levels in blood and urine. The 5-HT(1A) binding potential was measured in six regions of interest and calculated according to the simplified reference tissue model. In the raphe nuclei, the 5-HT(1A) binding potential changed from the follicular to the luteal phase of the menstrual cycle in asymptomatic controls. In women with PMDD, the observed change between phases was significantly smaller. The results are in concordance with previously reported challenge studies of 5-HT(1A) receptor-mediated effects indicating different serotonergic responses between women with PMDD and controls. The study principally provides new support, in vivo, for a serotonergic dysregulation in women with PMDD.
To study different aspects of regional pre-synaptic brain (123)I-beta-CIT uptake on serotonin and dopamine re-uptake sites in drug-free suicide attempters in comparison with age- and sex matched control subjects, single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) measurements were analysed for regional serotonin re-uptake (5HTT) and dopamine re-uptake (DAT) capacity (binding potential, BP()) after i.v. (123)I-beta-CIT administration. All suicide attempters were examined concerning seriousness of the attempt, and DSM-IV diagnosis. Both suicide attempters and control subjects were tested for psychotropic drugs, and completed the Marke-Nyman Temperament (MNT) test, including solidity (level of impulsiveness/initiative) and validity (level of mental energy). We found no significant difference between suicide attempters and control subjects concerning the regional levels of 5HTT BP() or DAT BP(). However, in suicide attempters, but not controls, we found significant regional correlations between MNT variables and SPECT results. We interpret the discrepant findings in suicide attempters and control subjects to be due to a disability of the suicide attempters to regulate their serotonin and dopamine levels, e.g. in response to external stress.






Observing an action activates the same representations as does the actual performance of the action. Here we show for the first time that the action system can also be activated in the complete absence of action perception. When the participants had to identify the faces of famous athletes, the responses were influenced by their similarity to the motor skills of the athletes. Thus, the motor skills of the viewed athletes were retrieved automatically during person identification and had a direct influence on the action system of the observer. However, our results also indicated that motor behaviours that are implicit characteristics of other people are represented differently from when actions are directly observed. That is, unlike the facilitatory effects reported when actions were seen, the embodiment of the motor behaviour that is not concurrently perceived gave rise to contrast effects where responses similar to the behaviour of the athletes were inhibited.
Clinical irradiation of the brain induces hippocampus-dependent cognitive impairments in some but not all individuals, suggesting the involvement of genetic risk factors. Deficiency of apolipoprotein E (APOE), which is important for the metabolism and redistribution of lipoproteins and cholesterol, increases behavioral impairments after irradiation, supporting a protective role for APOE against radiation-induced cognitive injury. Compared to APOE3, APOE4 increases while APOE2 decreases the risk of developing age-related cognitive decline and Alzheimer's disease, particularly in women. To determine the potential effects of APOE isoform and sex on radiation-induced cognitive impairments, we irradiated 2-month-old male and female APOE2, APOE3 and APOE4 mice and assessed their cognitive performance 3 months later. When hippocampus-dependent spatial learning and memory were assessed in the water maze, sham-irradiated female APOE2, APOE3 and APOE4 and irradiated female APOE2 mice showed spatial memory retention, but irradiated female APOE3 and APOE4 mice did not. Compared to sham-irradiated female APOE4 mice, irradiated female APOE4 mice also required more trials to reach criterion in the hippocampus-dependent passive avoidance test. Radiation had no effects on water maze or passive avoidance learning and memory of male APOE2, APOE3 or APOE4 mice, indicating that the effects of radiation on cognitive performance are dependent on sex- and APOE isoform.
The paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus (PVN) integrates multiple inputs via projections from arginine vasopressin (AVP)- and oxytocin (OXT)-containing neurons to the brain stem and spinal cord as well as regulates respiratory and cardiovascular stress-related responses, which also affect airway function. In the present study, we used immunocytochemistry and the retrograde transneuronal tracer, Bartha strain of pseudorabies virus expressing green fluorescent protein (PRV-GFP), to localize AVP- and OXT-producing neurons that project to airway-related vagal preganglionic neurons (AVPNs) innervating intrapulmonary airways. PRV-GFP was microinjected into the upper right lung lobe, and after 4 days survival, hypothalamic tissue sections were processed for co-expression of PRV-GFP and AVP or PRV-GFP and OXT. In addition, in a separate group of five rats, Phaseolus vulgaris leucoagglutinin (PHAL), an anterograde tracer, was injected unilaterally into the PVN and cholera toxin beta subunit was microinjected into the tracheal wall. Analysis of five successfully infected animals showed that 14% of PRV-GFP labeled neurons express AVP traits and 18% of transneuronally-labeled neurons contain OXT. Furthermore, the identified AVPNs innervating extrathoracic trachea receive axon terminals of the PVN neurons. The results indicate that AVP- and OXT-producing PVN cells, via direct projections to the AVPNs, could modulate cholinergic outflow to the airways, as a part of overall changes in response to stress.

We studied whether a small capsular incision alone, or combined with meniscectomy could induce early osteoarthritic changes in the rabbit knee. Thirty-one rabbits were operated on with a capsular incision in the left knee and meniscectomy in the right knee. Another 12 rabbits were used as controls. The rabbits were killed 3, 6 and 12 weeks after surgery. Osteoarthritic changes in the articular cartilage were evaluated by the modified Mankin score. The subchondral bone was evaluated by scintimetry ((99m)Tc-HDP) and semiquantitative grading of histological changes. Osteogenic protein (OP-1) in its mature and pro-form was examined by immunohistochemistry. Both a capsular incision and meniscectomy induced articular cartilage fibrillation and increased bone metabolic activity during the initial weeks after surgery. Capsular incision led to lesser changes than meniscectomy. Mature OP-1 was elevated, and its pro-form reduced, in meniscectomized knees. A similar pattern was observed in knees with capsular incision. Already 3 weeks after surgery, the articular cartilage and subchondral bone showed typical signs of early osteoarthritis (OA), and a reparative response was suggested by increased intensity of OP-1 staining. As these signs were also found in knees with capsular incision only, it appears that trauma-related factors such as increased bleeding and inflammation are critical for the development of OA.
Using microautoradiography ex vivo we tested the effect of forced running on a roller drum for 3 h on the nuclear incorporation of [5-(3)H uridine] in mouse brain. Specific neuron types with increased nuclear labelling included primary motor cortex layer 5 nerve cells with nuclei greater than 12 microm (+38%) and large neuron nuclei in putamen (+58%). Mice running for 45 min do not show any change in the labelling of nerve cell nuclei compared with mice moving freely in the cage. The [(3)H]uridine uptake in other cell types, e.g. other neurons in cortical layer 5, neurons in sensory cortex and in the other cell layers in motor cortex, were not different from control mice. We conclude that RNA synthesis is normally low in adult mouse brain, but that physical exercise stimulates RNA synthesis in specific populations of large neurons in the motor system.
The aim was to evaluate whether occupational therapy interventions in acute care could improve the elderly patient's perception of ability to manage at home after discharge. A pilot study was performed, including 22 patients in the experimental group and 19 in the control group. Occupational therapy interventions were conducted in the experimental group concerning personal care, information, prescription of assistive devices, planning of discharge, and reporting to primary care or community care. The control group was given no occupational therapy interventions. Structured interviews were performed on discharge and at a follow-up in about 14 weeks after discharge. The two groups were comparable concerning gender, age, days of care, and diagnoses. Patients in the experimental group scored lower on mental health and were more anxious on discharge. However, there was no difference between the groups in managing at home after discharge. Patients in the control group had greater need of further contacts with healthcare after discharge. Due to the small sample interpretations must be made with caution. The findings indicate that occupational therapy interventions in acute care might have a positive effect from the perspective of the elderly patient. These results need to be confirmed in a larger study.
Dysphoria is an integral part of the symptomatology of a variety of clinical states, though there is little empirical data available on the qualitative and quantitative aspects of this phenomenon. The purpose of the study was to administer alphamethyl paratyrosine (AMPT), a catecholamine depleting agent as a chemical probe to induce dysphoria, and document the ensuing changes in mental status. AMPT (4-5 g/day) was administered to a group of medication-free schizophrenic patients (n=13) over a 48 hour period, and changes in their mental status were monitored at 12 hour intervals with the Profile of Mood States (POMS), Addiction Research Center Inventory (ARCI), Drug Attitude Inventory (DAI) and other standardized rating scales. All of the subjects experienced dysphoric responses of variable severity. The profile of changes included blunted pleasure responsivity, clouded thinking, loss of motivation and lowered vigilance. Subtle subjective changes were experienced soon after the first dose of AMPT and the dysphoria steadily worsened, resulting in social withdrawal and personal distress. Subjective responses were the earliest to manifest, followed by akathisia, akinesia and rigidity. We conclude that AMPT induced dopamine depletion is a safe, rapid, reliable and reversible method of studying dysphoric states in humans. The technique is helpful in examining the phenomenology of dysphoria, the temporal relationship between subjective and behavioural consequences of dopamine depletion, and the role of dopamine in mediating subtle aspects of pleasure responsivity, which is in turn crucial to the understanding of treatment non-adherence in schizophrenia and the origins of comorbid substance abuse.
Recent studies have proposed that difficulty with accessing the lexical-semantic memory store may underpin some of the specific linguistic problems associated with formal thought disorder (FTD). We examined the consistency of name retrieval as an indicator of the ability to access lexical-semantic knowledge in patients with and without marked FTD to see if problems are specific to the former or common to schizophrenic patients in general. A graded naming test was administered on two separate occasions 8-16 weeks apart to 48 participants in three groups: 16 schizophrenic patients with high ratings of FTD, 16 schizophrenic patients with low ratings of FTD and 16 healthy controls. We compared the groups for naming consistency across time and the relationship between naming consistency and specific symptoms of FTD. Both patient groups had impaired naming and this was significantly greater in high than low FTD patients. The high FTD patients showed a profile that differed from both low FTD patients and healthy controls insofar as their naming was inconsistent across time, characteristic of an access disorder. Specifically, the FTD symptoms of derailment, tangentality and incoherence were related to the ability to access the lexical-semantic store. In conclusion, most patients with schizophrenia show an impaired semantic memory store. Nevertheless, FTD is associated with additional lexical-semantic difficulties that are quantitatively different to those seen in patients without FTD, and which may reflect disorganized semantic access.

Abnormality in neurodevelopment is one of the most robust hypotheses on the etiology of schizophrenia and has found substantial support from brain imaging and genetic studies. Neurodevelopmental processes involve several signaling pathways, including the Notch, but little is known at present regarding their possible involvement in schizophrenia. In the present study we investigated the link of non-synonymous variants of five genes of the Notch pathway (NOTCH2, NOTCH3, JAGGED2, ASCL1 and NUMBL) to schizophrenia in a group of 200 Brazilian patients and 200-paired controls. Also, we replicated the association of the NUMBL variant, our most promising finding, in an unrelated set of 684 Danish patients and controls. When the Brazilian and Danish cohorts were merged, a total of 1084 subjects, we found the allele 18 CAG of NUMBL (p=0.003, x2=8.88, OR=1.30, 95% CI 1.09-1.56) as well as the 18/18 CAG genotype (p=0.002, x2=9.46, OR=1.46, 95% CI 1.15-1.87) to be associated with schizophrenia. The consistency of this finding in two independent and unrelated populations reinforces the veracity of this association.
Previous studies have shown that schizophrenia patients display a left-lateralized reduction in cortical folding of the paracingulate cortex, although the functional significance of this anomaly is unclear. We examined the influence of paracingulate sulcus (PCS) asymmetries on cognitive performance in 37 male schizophrenia patients and 43 male controls. Across both groups, a leftward PCS asymmetry was associated with better spatial working memory performance than either a rightward asymmetric or symmetric folding pattern. This suggests that prior reports of impaired performance on such tasks in schizophrenia may be partly explained by the reduced frequency of a leftward PCS asymmetry in this population.

After having been in routine use for about half a century, neonatal EEG is currently facing unprecedented challenges in assessing and monitoring brain function during intensive care of preterm babies. It has therefore become increasingly important to understand the neurophysiological processes underlying EEG activity, as well as to identify those features of brain activity that are essential for brain development. By integrating the existing literature from basic neuroscience to neonatal EEG, the present review proposes a simple, neurophysiologically and neuroanatomically based framework for neonatal EEG interpretation. This is composed of two developmental trajectories: one related to discrete spontaneous activity transients (SAT) and the other to the ongoing, apparently oscillatory EEG activity. This framework can readily be applied to clinical use. It may open novel avenues to automated analysis in EEG monitoring and, moreover, it may facilitate genuine translational research.
In order to provide accurate prognosis and developmental intervention to newborns, new methods of assessing cerebral functions are needed. The non-invasive technique of functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) can be considered as the leading technique for functional exploration of the infant's brain. Several studies have previously applied fMRI in both healthy and diseased newborns with different sensory and cognitive tasks. In this chapter, the methodological issues that are proper to the use of fMRI in the newborn are detailed. In addition, an overview of the major findings of previous fMRI studies is provided, with a focus on notable differences from those in adult subjects. More specifically, the functional responses and the localization of cortical activations in healthy and diseased newborns are discussed. We expect a rapid expansion of this field and the establishment of fMRI as a valid clinical diagnostic tool in the newborn.





Facial expressions of emotion represent a stimulus set widely used to assess a broad range of psychological processes. However, a consideration of systematic differences between expression categories, other than differences relating to characteristics of the expressions themselves, has remained largely unaddressed. By collecting experience rankings in a large sample of undergraduates, we observed that the amount of reported experience individuals have had with different facial expressions of emotion systematically differed between all expression categories. These findings shed light on the potential for identifying confounds inherent to comparing some stimulus categories and, in this case, may aid in the interpretation of observed between-expression category findings.
The field of social neuroscience has grown dramatically in recent years and certain social responses have become amenable to mechanistic investigations. Toward that end, there has been remarkable progress in determining mechanisms for a simple sexual behavior, lordosis behavior. This work has proven that specific hormone-dependent biochemical reactions in specific parts of the mammalian brain regulate a biologically important behavior. On one hand, this sex behavior depends on underlying mechanisms of CNS arousal. On the other hand, it serves as a prototypical social behavior. The same sex hormones and the genes that encode their receptors as are involved in lordosis, also affect social recognition. Here we review evidence for a micronet of genes promoting social recognition in mice and discuss their biological roles.
The ability to create and enjoy music is a universal human trait and plays an important role in the daily life of most cultures. Music has a unique ability to trigger memories, awaken emotions and to intensify our social experiences. We do not need to be trained in music performance or appreciation to be able to reap its benefits-already as infants, we relate to it spontaneously and effortlessly. There has been a recent surge in neuroimaging investigations of the neural basis of musical experience, but the way in which the abstract shapes and patterns of musical sound can have such profound meaning to us remains elusive. Here we review recent neuroimaging evidence and suggest that music, like language, involves an intimate coupling between the perception and production of hierarchically organized sequential information, the structure of which has the ability to communicate meaning and emotion. We propose that these aspects of musical experience may be mediated by the human mirror neuron system.
When subjects are required to reason about someone's false belief, a consistent pattern of brain regions are recruited including the medial prefrontal cortex, medial precuneus and bilateral temporo-parietal junction. Previous group analyses suggest that the two medial regions, but not the lateral regions, are also recruited when subjects engage in self-reflection. The current study directly compared the results of the 'false belief' and 'self' tasks in individual subjects. Consistent with previous reports, the medial prefrontal and medial precuneus regions recruited by the two tasks significantly overlap in individual subjects, although there was also evidence for non-overlapping voxels in medial regions. The temporo-parietal regions are only recruited for the 'theory of mind' task. Six possible models of the relationship between theory of mind, self-reflection and autobiographical memory, all consistent with both neurobiological and developmental evidence to date, are discussed.
A common feature of the antisocial, rule-breaking behavior that is central to criminal, violent and psychopathic individuals is the failure to follow moral guidelines. This review summarizes key findings from brain imaging research on both antisocial behavior and moral reasoning, and integrates these findings into a neural moral model of antisocial behavior. Key areas found to be functionally or structurally impaired in antisocial populations include dorsal and ventral regions of the prefrontal cortex (PFC), amygdala, hippocampus, angular gyrus, anterior cingulate and temporal cortex. Regions most commonly activated in moral judgment tasks consist of the polar/medial and ventral PFC, amygdala, angular gyrus and posterior cingulate. It is hypothesized that the rule-breaking behavior common to antisocial, violent and psychopathic individuals is in part due to impairments in some of the structures (dorsal and ventral PFC, amygdala and angular gyrus) subserving moral cognition and emotion. Impairments to the emotional component that comprises the feeling of what is moral is viewed as the primary deficit in antisocials, although some disruption to the cognitive and cognitive-emotional components of morality (particularly self-referential thinking and emotion regulation) cannot be ruled out. While this neurobiological predisposition is likely only one of several biosocial processes involved in the etiology of antisocial behavior, it raises significant moral issues for the legal system and neuroethics.
Autism and Williams syndrome are genetically based neurodevelopmental disorders that present strikingly different social phenotypes. Autism involves fundamental impairments in social reciprocity and communication, whereas people with Williams syndrome are highly sociable and engaging. This article reviews the behavioral and neuroimaging literature that has explored the neurocognitive mechanisms that underlie these contrasting social phenotypes, focusing on studies of face processing. The article concludes with a discussion of how the social phenotypes of both syndromes may be characterized by impaired connectivity between the amygdala and other critical regions in the 'social brain'.


Regeneration of cells in the central nervous system is a process that might be affected during neurological disease and trauma. Because nitric oxide (NO) and its derivatives are powerful mediators in the inflammatory cascade, we have investigated the effects of pathophysiological concentrations of NO on neurogenesis, gliogenesis, and the expression of proneural genes in primary adult neural stem cell cultures. After exposure to NO, neurogenesis was downregulated, and this corresponded to decreased expression of the proneural gene neurogenin-2 and beta-III-tubulin. The decreased ability to generate neurons was also found to be transmitted to the progeny of the cells. NO exposure was instead beneficial for astroglial differentiation, which was confirmed by increased activation of the Janus tyrosine kinase/signal transducer and activator of transcription transduction pathway. Our findings reveal a new role for NO during neuroinflammatory conditions, whereby its proastroglial fate-determining effect on neural stem cells might directly influence the neuroregenerative process.
Recent results have shown the ability of bone marrow cells to migrate in the brain and to acquire neuronal or glial characteristics. In vitro, bone marrow-derived MSCs can be induced by chemical compounds to express markers of these lineages. In an effort to set up a mouse model of such differentiation, we addressed the neuronal potentiality of mouse MSCs (mMSCs) that we recently purified. These cells expressed nestin, a specific marker of neural progenitors. Under differentiating conditions, mMSCs display a distinct neuronal shape and express neuronal markers NF-L (neurofilament-light, or neurofilament 70 kDa) and class III beta-tubulin. Moreover, differentiated mMSCs acquire neuron-like functions characterized by a cytosolic calcium rise in response to various specific neuronal activators. Finally, we further demonstrated for the first time that clonal mMSCs and their progeny are competent to differentiate along the neuronal pathway, demonstrating that these bone marrow-derived stem cells share characteristics of widely multipotent stem cells unrestricted to mesenchymal differentiation pathways.
Neuronal progenitor cells (NPCs) play an important role in potential regenerative therapeutic strategies for neurodegenerative diseases, such as Parkinson disease. However, survival of transplanted cells is, as yet, limited, and the identification of grafted cells in situ remains difficult. The use of NPCs could be more effective with regard to a better survival and maturation when transfected with one or more neurotrophic factors. Therefore, we investigated the possibility of transfecting mesencephalic neuronal progenitors with different constructs carrying neurotrophic factors or the expression reporters enhanced green fluorescence protein (EGFP) and red fluorescent protein (DsRed). Different techniques for transfection were compared, and the highest transfection rate of up to 47% was achieved by nucleofection. Mesencephalic neuronal progenitors survived the transfection procedure; 6 hours after transfection, viability was approximately 40%, and the transfected cells differentiated into, for example, tyrosine hydroxylase-positive neurons. Within the group of transfected cells, many progenitors and several neurons were found. To provide the progenitor cells with a neurotrophic factor, different isoforms of fibroblast growth factor-2 were introduced. To follow the behavior of the transfected cells in vitro, functional tests such as the cell viability assay (water-soluble tetrazolium salt assay [WST-1]) and the cell proliferation assay (5-bromo-2'-deoxyuridine-enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay) were performed. In addition, these transfected NPCs were viable after transplantation, expressed tyrosine hydroxylase in vivo, and could easily be detected within the host striatum because of their EGFP expression. This study shows that genetic modification of neural progenitors could provide attractive perspectives for new therapeutic concepts in neurodegenerative diseases.
This commentary documents the increased number of stem cell-related research reports recently published in the cell transplantation field in the journal Cell Transplantation. The journal covers a wide range of issues in cell-based therapy and regenerative medicine and is attracting clinical and preclinical articles from around the world. It thereby complements and extends the basic coverage of stem cell physiology reported in Stem Cells and Development. Sections in Cell Transplantation cover neuroscience, diabetes, hepatocytes, bone, muscle, cartilage, skin, vessels, and other tissues, as well as tissue engineering that employs novel methods with stem cells. Clearly, the continued use of biomedical engineering will depend heavily on stem cells, and these two journals are well positioned to provide comprehensive coverage of these developments.
Bernhard von Gudden, psychiatrist to the Royal House of Bavaria (1824-1886), had studied ocular torsion by means of self-observation in the mirror and with the help of after-images for his dissertation of 1848, but later turned to experimental neuroanatomy. Several findings are connected with his name, among them the transverse peduncular tract, part of the accessory optic system. August Forel, Emil Kraepelin and Franz Nissl belonged to his Munich school that took neuroanatomical research as a guiding principle for scientific psychiatry.

The purpose of the present study was to investigate basic methodological issues related to the usage of an examination stress protocol in studies of psychoneuroendocrinology. In the present study, 57 undergraduate students served as participants. All subjects provided salivary samples and completed psychological inventories during a low examination stress period and again during a high examination stress period. Salivary samples were analyzed for cortisol. Three major findings were observed. First, the examination stress protocol proved to be an effective trigger of elevations in both psychological measures of stress and in cortisol levels. Second, sex differences were observed in cortisol levels, such that males showed an elevation in cortisol during the high examination stress session whereas females did not. Finally, no significant correlations were observed between elevations in psychological measures of stress and elevations in cortisol levels. These findings suggest that the examination stress protocol used in the present study effectively elevated both psychological stress and cortisol levels. Furthermore, these findings suggest that there are biological differences in how males and females respond to stress. Finally, no evidence was found to suggest a relationship between psychological and hormonal levels of stress. Together, these findings suggest the need to better define and consider the implications of both the specific measures of stress being used and individual differences in the subject samples in psychoendocrine studies.
There is now compelling evidence, coming both from animal and human studies that an early exposure to undernutrition is frequently associated with low birth weight and programs HPA axis alterations throughout the lifespan. Although animal models have reported conflicting findings arising from differences in experimental paradigms and species, they have clearly demonstrated that such programming not only affects the brain but also the pituitary corticotrophs and the adrenal cortex. In fetuses, maternal undernutrition reduces HPA axis function and implicates a reduction of placental 11beta-HSD2 activity and a greater transplacental transfer of glucocorticoids (GRs). In young adults, usually only fine HPA axis alterations were observed, whereas in older ones, maternal undernutrition was frequently associated with chronic hyperactivity of this neuroendocrine axis. In humans, evidence of HPA axis dysregulation in people who were small at birth has recently emerged. Thus, we suggest that such alterations in adults may be implicated in the aetiology of several disorders related to the metabolic syndrome as well as to immune or inflammatory diseases. To reverse such programming, recent experimental reports have shown that postnatal environmental interventions, dietary modifications and the use of agents modulating the epigenomic state could partly restore physiological functions and thus open new therapeutic strategies.




Adenosine A1 and A2A receptors mediate distinct cardiovascular components of defense reactions that are ascribed, in part, to opposing actions within the nucleus tractus solitarius. To assess the cellular sites of relevance to these actions, we examined the light and electron microscopic immunolabeling of adenosine A1 and A2A receptors in the rat dorsomedial nucleus of the solitary tract at the level of the area postrema (dmNTS-AP), a region crucial for cardiovascular regulation involving vagal baroreceptor afferents. Immunoreactivity for each receptor was independently localized to distinct segments of plasma membranes and endomembranes in somatodendritic, axonal, and glial profiles. The dendritic labeling for each receptor also was detected within and near asymmetric, excitatory-type synapses. Of all peroxidase labeled profiles exclusive of somata, approximately 58% were A1- and 39% were A2A-labeled dendrites. Dendrites and astrocytic glia were the profiles that most often expressed both subtypes of adenosine receptors. The axonal labeling for A2A receptors was seen mainly in unmyelinated axons, whereas the A1 receptors were prominently localized within axon terminals. These terminals often formed single or multisynaptic excitatory-type junctions or single symmetric synapses on dendrites, a few of which expressed A1 and A2A receptors. These results provide the first ultrastructural evidence that A1 and A2A receptors have distributions conductive to their dual involvement in modulating the output of single neurons and glial function in the dmNTS-AP, where the predominate presynaptic effects of adenosine are mediated through A1 receptors.
The objective of this pilot study was to test the feasibility of using home health monitors to administer standardized measures for depression and pain in a Veterans Affairs (VA) patient population. Five patients were recruited from a larger study of collaborative depression care, and were asked to use Viterion 100 Telehealth monitors to transmit depression (Patient Health Questionnaire-9) and pain severity (SF36-V bodily pain items) scores on a weekly basis for 24 weeks. Information was received and reviewed by a nurse care manager, who recommended treatment changes as appropriate. The care manager occasionally followed up reports of changes in symptom severity with phone calls; in one case, she called to inquire why a patient was not submitting data. Overall, four patients were able to use the monitors successfully and frequently. Patient satisfaction was high: 5 of 5 reported that they would use monitors again, and 3 of 5 preferred monitors to phone or mail for completing questionnaires. Patients expressed no concerns about privacy. The data allowed tracking of the longitudinal interrelationship between depression and pain severity. However, the monitors were limited in their ability to display questionnaire items, and the system could neither directly compute measure scores nor transfer data to patient medical records. These results suggest that with modifications, home health monitoring shows promise for monitoring symptom severity for a variety of medical and mental health conditions, for either clinical or research purposes.
We present an individual-based, spatial implementation of an existing two-locus population genetic model of niche construction. Our analysis reveals that, across a broad range of conditions, niche-construction traits can drive themselves to fixation by simultaneously generating selection that favours 'recipient' trait alleles and linkage disequilibrium between niche-construction and recipient trait alleles. The effect of spatiality is key, since it is the local, resource-mediated interaction between recipient and niche-constructing loci which gives rise to gene linkage. Spatial clustering effects point to a possible mechanism by which an initially rare recipient trait whose selection depends on niche construction could establish in an otherwise hostile environment. The same mechanism could also lead to the spread of an established niche-constructing colony. Similar phenomena are observed in the spatial modelling of two species 'engineering webs'. Here, the activities of two niche-constructing species can combine to drive a particular recipient trait to fixation, or in certain circumstances, maintain the presence of polymorphisms through the preservation of otherwise deleterious alleles. This may have some relevance to ecosystem stability and the maintenance of genetic variation, where the frequencies of key resources are affected by the niche-constructing activities of more than one species. Our model suggests that the stability of multi-species webs in natural populations may increase as the complexity of species-environment interactions increases.
Diabetes mellitus is a degenerative disease that has deleterious effects on male reproductive function, possibly through an increase in oxidative stress. This study was conducted in order to clarify the mechanisms by which oxidative stress influences animal models for both type 1 (streptozotocin-treated rats, STZ) and type 2 (Goto-Kakizaki (GK) rats) diabetes. We determined the extent of lipid peroxidation, protein oxidation, lactate levels, adenine nucleotides, adenylate energy charge and the activity of glutathione peroxidase, glutathione reductase and lactate dehydrogenase, in isolated testicular cells of control and diabetic rats. We have also correlated these parameters with sperm count and motility. Sperm concentration and motility were decreased in STZ-treated rats. ATP levels were lower in rats treated with STZ for 3 months, in contrast to GK and rats treated with STZ for 1 month, suggesting an adaptative response. STZ-treated rats showed increased lipid peroxidation after 1 week and 3 months of treatment. Glutathione reductase (G-red) activity was found to be higher in GK rats. Glutathione peroxidase activity was lower in GK and rats treated with STZ for 1 month, which is in accordance with the proposal of functional recovery in these animals. We conclude that hyperglycemia has an adverse effect in sperm concentration and motility via changes in energy production and free radical management. Furthermore, both animal models, particularly GK rats and rats treated with STZ for 1 month, present some metabolic adaptations, increasing the efficiency of mitochondrial ATP production, in order to circumvent the deleterious effects promoted by the disease.
This study investigated the personality and clinical correlates of asceticism in 154 anorectic patients. Multiple linear regression models showed that asceticism was related to angry temperament, high control over anger, perfectionism, maturity fears, and number of vomiting episodes per week. These results suggest that the self-discipline and hypercontrol of anorectic patients are related to a temperament prone to angry feelings in subjects with a fear of becoming adult and with a trait of pathologic perfectionism.
Two major non-invasive techniques in cognitive neuroscience, electroencephalography (EEG) and functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI), have complementary advantages with regard to their spatial and temporal resolution. Recent hardware and software developments have made it feasible to acquire EEG and fMRI data simultaneously. We emphasize the potential of simultaneous EEG and fMRI recordings to pursue new strategies in cognitive neuroimaging. Specifically, we propose that, by exploiting the combined spatiotemporal resolution of the methods, the integration of EEG and fMRI recordings on a single-trial level enables the rich temporal dynamics of information processing to be characterized within spatially well-defined neural networks.
Recent experiments indicate the need for revision of a model of spatial memory consisting of viewpoint-specific representations, egocentric spatial updating and a geometric module for reorientation. Instead, it appears that both egocentric and allocentric representations exist in parallel, and combine to support behavior according to the task. Current research indicates complementary roles for these representations, with increasing dependence on allocentric representations with the amount of movement between presentation and retrieval, the number of objects remembered, and the size, familiarity and intrinsic structure of the environment. Identifying the neuronal mechanisms and functional roles of each type of representation, and of their interactions, promises to provide a framework for investigation of the organization of human memory more generally.
How do bilingual (or multilingual) persons keep different languages apart and switch between them as needs arise? Crinion et al. have used an ingenious method to dissociate brain regions sensitive to word meaning from those sensitive to the combination of meaning and language. This work should stimulate further research examining the role of subcortical areas in language processing and in context-appropriate language production.
In eukaryotic organisms, ID proteins are key regulators of development when they function to preserve the stem cell state and prevent lineage determination. By fueling several key features of tumor progression (deregulated proliferation, invasiveness, angiogenesis and metastasis), ID proteins contribute to multiple steps of tumorigenesis. Through oncogenic processes that lead to their aberrant activation in tumors, ID proteins transfer the phenotypic traits of embryonic stem cells to cancer cells. However, ID proteins have recently emerged as highly specialized factors in post-mitotic neurons. The elevated expression of ID proteins arrests neurons in the axon growth mode and prevents cessation of axonal elongation. Here, we discuss how unique properties of ID proteins in cancer cells and neurons pave the way to unexpected therapeutic opportunities.
The nature of addiction is often debated along moral versus biological lines. However, recent advances in neuroscience offer insights that might help bridge the gap between these opposing views. Current evidence shows that most drugs of abuse exert their initial reinforcing effects by inducing dopamine surges in limbic regions, affecting other neurotransmitter systems and leading to characteristic plastic adaptations. Importantly, there seem to be intimate relationships between the circuits disrupted by abused drugs and those that underlie self-control. Significant changes can be detected in circuits implicated in reward, motivation and/or drive, salience attribution, inhibitory control and memory consolidation. Therefore, addiction treatments should attempt to reduce the rewarding properties of drugs while enhancing those of alternative reinforcers, inhibit conditioned memories and strengthen cognitive control. We posit that the time has come to recognize that the process of addiction erodes the same neural scaffolds that enable self-control and appropriate decision making.
It has recently been recognized that the entorhinal cortex has a crucial role in spatial representation and navigation. How the position of an animal is computed within the entorhinal circuitry remains to be determined, but the architectural organization of this brain area might provide some clues. Here, we review three organizational principles--recurrent connectivity, interlaminar connectivity and modular organization--and propose how each of them might contribute to the emergence and maintenance of positional representations in entorhinal neural networks.
Normal aging is often accompanied by impairments in forming new memories, and studies of aging rodents have revealed structural and functional changes to the hippocampus that might point to the mechanisms behind such memory loss. In this article, we synthesize recent neurobiological and neurophysiological findings into a model of the information-processing circuit of the aging hippocampus. The key point of the model is that small concurrent changes during aging strengthen the auto-associative network of the CA3 subregion at the cost of processing new information coming in from the entorhinal cortex. As a result of such reorganization in aged memory-impaired individuals, information that is already stored would become the dominant pattern of the hippocampus to the detriment of the ability to encode new information.
The current article describes the creation and composition of the PennTwins Cohort and provides details on the demographic characteristics of the sample. The PennTwins Cohort was developed using a population-based method of ascertainment and currently has 9401 28- to 47-year-old twins, including 2225 confirmed twin pairs and 4951 twins whose co-twins have not yet registered. Zygosity data have been used to identify 919 monozygotic, 634 same-sex dizygotic, and 445 opposite-sex dizygotic pairs. GeoCode data on gender, age, and certain demographic characteristics were obtained for the addresses of all twins who were mailed invitations to be part of the cohort. Analysis of the available data show only very small differences between twins who are currently part of the PennTwins Cohort and potential twins who either did not respond to recruitment or who could not be located. Similarly, only very small demographic differences exist between twins from complete pairs and twins whose co-twins are not yet registered, and there are no differences across zygosity. Thus, despite a relatively low overall response rate (12% of all twins born in Pennsylvania from 1959-1978), there is no evidence that the sample differs in any meaningful respect from the larger population.
The primary aim of the Michigan State University Twin Registry (MSUTR) is to examine developmental differences in genetic, environmental, and neurobiological influences on internalizing and externalizing symptoms, with disordered eating and antisocial behavior representing particular areas of interest. Twin participants span several developmental stages (i.e., childhood, adolescence, and young adulthood). Assessments include comprehensive, multi-informant measures of psychiatric and behavioral phenotypes, buccal swab and salivary DNA samples, assays of adolescent and adult steroid hormone levels (e.g., estradiol, progesterone, testosterone, cortisol), and videotaped parent-child interactions of child and adolescent twin families. To date, we have collected data on over 1000 twins, with additional data collections underway. This article provides an overview of the newly developed MSUTR and describes current and future research directions.
The N170 event-related potential component is currently under investigation for its role in face identity processing. Using a location-matching paradigm, in which face identity is task irrelevant, we observed a progressive decrease in N170 amplitude to multiple repetitions of upright faces presented at unattended locations. In contrast, we did not observe N170 habituation for repeat presentations of inverted faces. The findings suggest that the N170 repetition effects reflect early face identity processes that are part of familiarity acquisition of new faces.
Although motion parallax is closely associated with observer head movement, the underlying neural mechanism appears to rely on a pursuit-like eye movement signal to disambiguate perceived depth sign from the ambiguous retinal motion information [Naji, J. J., &amp; Freeman, T. C. A. (2004). Perceiving depth order during pursuit eye movement. Vision Research, 44, 3025-3034; Nawrot, M. (2003). Eye movements provide the extra-retinal signal required for the perception of depth from motion parallax. Vision Research, 43, 1553-1562]. Here, we outline the evidence for a pursuit signal in motion parallax and propose a simple neural network model for how the pursuit theory of motion parallax might function within the visual system. The first experiment demonstrates the crucial role that an extra-retinal pursuit signal plays in the unambiguous perception of depth from motion parallax. The second experiment demonstrates that identical head movements can generate opposite depth percepts, and even ambiguous percepts, when the pursuit signal is altered. The pursuit theory of motion parallax provides a parsimonious explanation for all of these observations.
What are the visual causes, rather than mere correlates, of attentional selection and how do they compare to each other during natural vision? To address these questions, we first strung together semantically unrelated dynamic scenes into MTV-style video clips, and performed eye tracking experiments with human observers. We then quantified predictions of saccade target selection based on seven bottom-up models, including intensity variance, orientation contrast, intensity contrast, color contrast, flicker contrast, motion contrast, and integrated saliency. On average, all tested models predicted saccade target selection well above chance. Dynamic models were particularly predictive of saccades that were most likely bottom-up driven-initiated shortly after scene onsets, leading to maximal inter-observer similarity. Static models showed mixed results in these circumstances, with intensity variance and orientation contrast featuring particularly weak prediction accuracy (lower than their own average, and approximately 4 times lower than dynamic models). These results indicate that dynamic visual cues play a dominant causal role in attracting attention. In comparison, some static visual cues play a weaker causal role, while other static cues are not causal at all, and may instead reflect top-down causes.



Reduced brain glucose availability evokes an integrated constellation of responses that protect and restore the brain's glucose supply. These include increased food intake, adrenal medullary secretion, corticosterone secretion and suppression of estrous cycles. Our research has focused on mechanisms and neural circuitry underlying these systemic glucoregulatory responses. Using microinjection techniques, we found that localized glucoprivation of hindbrain but not hypothalamic sites, elicited key glucoregulatory responses, indicating that glucoreceptor cells controlling these responses are located in the hindbrain. Selective destruction of hindbrain catecholamine neurons using the retrogradely transported immunotoxin, anti-dopamine beta-hydroxylase conjugated to saporin (DSAP), revealed that spinally-projecting epinephrine (E) or norepinephrine (NE) neurons are required for the adrenal medullary response to glucoprivation, while E/NE neurons with hypothalamic projections are required for feeding, corticosterone and reproductive responses. We also found that E/NE neurons are required for both consummatory and appetitive phases of glucoprivic feeding, suggesting that multilevel collateral projections of these neurons coordinate various components of the behavioral response. Epinephrine or NE neurons co-expressing neuropeptide Y (NPY) may be the neuronal phenotype required for glucoprivic feeding: they increase NPY mRNA expression in response to glucoprivation and are nearly eliminated by DSAP injections that abolish glucoprivic feeding. In contrast, lesion of arcuate nucleus NPY neurons, using the toxin, NPY-saporin, does not impair glucoprivic feeding or hyperglycemic responses. Thus, hindbrain E/NE neurons orchestrate multiple concurrent glucoregulatory responses. Specific catecholamine phenotypes may mediate the individual components of the overall response. Glucoreceptive control of these neurons resides within the hindbrain.
Over the past thirty years many of different methods have been developed that use markers to track or image the activity of the neurons within the central networks that control ingestive behaviors. The ultimate goal of these experiments is to identify the location of neurons that participate in the response to an identified stimulus, and more widely to define the structure and function of the networks that control specific aspects of ingestive behavior. Some of these markers depend upon the rapid accumulation of proteins, while others reflect altered energy metabolism as neurons change their firing rates. These methods are widely used in behavioral neuroscience, but the way results are interpreted within the context of defining neural networks is constrained by how we answer the following questions. How well can the structure of the behavior be documented? What do we know about the processes that lead to the accumulation of the marker? What is the function of the marker within the neuron? How closely in time does the marker accumulation track the stimulus? How long does the marker persist after the stimulus is removed? We will review how these questions can be addressed with regard to ingestive and related behaviors. We will also discuss the importance of plotting the location of labeled cells using standardized atlases to facilitate the presentation and comparison of data between experiments and laboratories. Finally, we emphasize the importance of comprehensive and accurate mapping for using newly emerging technologies in neuroinfomatics.
The concept of reward is central to psychology, but remains a cipher for neuroscience. Considerable evidence implicates dopamine in the process of reward and much of the data derives from the nucleus accumbens. Gustatory stimuli are widely used for animal studies of reward, but the connections between the taste and reward systems are unknown. In a series of experiments, our laboratory has addressed this issue using functional neurochemistry and neuroanatomy. First, using microdialysis probes, we demonstrated that sapid sucrose releases dopamine in the nucleus accumbens. The effect is dependent on oral stimulation and concentration. We subsequently determined that this response was independent of the thalamocortical gustatory system, but substantially blunted by damage to the parabrachial limbic taste projection. Further experiments using c-fos histochemistry confirmed that the limbic pathway was the prime carrier for the gustatory afferent activity that drives accumbens dopamine release.
A previous neuroimaging study has indicated that the visual dorsal stream may contribute to accurate reading of mirror-reversed words. However, the role of the visual ventral stream in the learning of mirror reading skill remains ambiguous. In the present fMRI study, we investigated learning-related changes in brain activation in the visual ventral stream in a mirror reading task. Subjects participated in three successive runs of the mirror reading task, in each of which they were asked to read mirror-reversed words and normal words as accurately and as quickly as possible. The behavioral data for the mirror reading condition showed significant improvement in reaction time but not in performance accuracy across the three runs. The activation data showed different learning-associated patterns related to the right and left visual ventral streams. On the right side, activity related to the reading of mirror stimuli was significantly greater than that related to normal stimuli in the first run only, whereas on the left side it was greater in all runs. Additional correlation analysis between response time data and percentage signal changes only in the mirror reading condition showed significant correlation on the right visual ventral stream in the first run only, whereas that on the left visual ventral stream was found only in the third run. The dissociable response between the right and left visual ventral streams may reflect learning-related changes in reading strategy and may be critical in improving the speed of reading mirror-reversed words.
This article examined neural time course differences in the processing of emotional pictures in European and Asian individuals. Event-related potentials (ERPs) were recorded in 15 French and 15 Japanese volunteers during the presentation of neutral and emotional pictures in their own country. ERPs were analyzed by means of spatio-temporal Principal Component Analysis (PCA) and allow to evaluate cultural influences on emotional processing along three temporal windows: 105 to 140 ms, 176 to 230 ms and 255 to 455 ms. Main results highlight that (1) early ERP components coded emotional charge but were not modulated by cultural background, (2) later components showed a significant decrease of amplitudes at parieto-occipital areas for Japanese participants compared to French ones in emotional condition. These findings suggest that, in both populations, similar neurocognitive processes are involved in the early stage of the emotional stimuli processing and effects observed on later components may reflect a poorer engagement of parietal areas, known to be involved in emotional arousal dimension. Considering that cognitive judgments were similar in both populations, electrophysiological findings suggest that cultural influences on later stage of emotional processing could be related to the known lower level of emotionally expressive behavior in Japanese than in Caucasians.
Simple reaction times (RTs) constitute an important source of information and tool in human and animal psychophysics, in cognitive neuroscience, and in the clinic. We measure simple RTs to auditory stimuli, in a high signal rate vigilance design, to examine the possibility that simple RT may be used as a tool to study mechanisms of temporal summation at absolute threshold. By means of catch trials, we monitor the subjects' tendencies to produce false alarms, that is reactions not controlled by the reaction stimulus. Here we examine the possibility that a model of a race between a stimulus-controlled reaction process and a false alarm process can account for the numbers as well as for the timing of early and late RTs on stimulus trials in our experiments. We show that the responses in both tails of our empirical RT distributions on stimulus trials are indeed correctly predicted by the race model and can be considered false alarms. This suggests that the race model might also provide a reasonable description of the way in which false alarms and stimulus-controlled reactions combine when they overlap in time. We examine the magnitudes of the estimated effects of false alarms on several parameters of the RT distributions by application of the race model. The analyses reveal that the effects not only vary with false alarm rate but also with stimulus parameters. Our data suggest that the race model may provide a theoretically reasonable and easy means of correcting for false alarms in simple RT paradigms and thus may constitute a useful alternative to the common practice of truncation.
Understanding how humans differ from other animals, as well as how we are like them, requires comparative investigations. For the purpose of documenting the distinctive features of humans, the most informative research involves comparing humans to our closest relatives-the chimpanzees and other great apes. Psychology and anthropology have maintained a tradition of empirical comparative research on human specializations of cognition. The neurosciences, by contrast, have been dominated by the model-animal research paradigm, which presupposes the commonality of &quot;basic&quot; features of brain organization across species and discourages serious treatment of species differences. As a result, the neurosciences have made little progress in understanding human brain specializations. Recent developments in neuroimaging, genomics, and other non-invasive techniques make it possible to directly compare humans and nonhuman species at levels of organization that were previously inaccessible, offering the hope of gaining a better understanding of the species-specific features of the human brain. This hope will be dashed, however, if chimpanzees and other great ape species become unavailable for even non-invasive research.
Scientific and popular lore have promulgated a connection between emotion and the limbic forebrain. However, there are a variety of structures that are considered limbic, and disagreement as to what is meant by &quot;emotion&quot;. This essay traces the initial studies upon which the connection between emotion and the limbic forebrain was based and how subsequent experimental evidence led to confusion both with regard to brain systems and to the behaviors examined. In the process of sorting out the bases of the confusion the following rough outlines are sketched: 1) Motivation and emotion need to be distinguished. 2) Motivation and emotion are processed by the basal ganglia; motivation by the striatum and related structures, emotion by limbic basal ganglia: the amygdala and related structures. 3) The striatum processes activation of readiness, both behavioral and perceptual; the amygdala processes arousal, an intensive dimension that varies from interest to panic. 4) Activation of readiness deals with &quot;what to do?&quot; Arousal deals with novelty, with &quot;what is it?&quot; 5) Thus both motivation and emotion are the proactive aspects of representations, of memory: motivation, an activation of readiness; emotion, a processing of novelty, a departure from the familiar. 6) The hippocampal-cingulate circuit deals with efficiently relating emotion and motivation by establishing dispositions, attitudes. 7) The prefrontal cortex fine-tunes motivation, emotion and attitude when choices among complex or ambiguous circumstances are made.
Inherited erythromelalgia/erythermalgia (IEM) is a neuropathy characterized by pain and redness of the extremities that is triggered by warmth. IEM has been associated with missense mutations of the voltage-gated sodium channel Na(V)1.7, which is preferentially expressed in most nociceptive dorsal root ganglia (DRGs) and sympathetic ganglion neurons. Several mutations occur in cytoplasmic linkers of Na(V)1.7, with only two mutations in segment 4 (S4) and S6 of domain I. We report here a simplex case with an alanine 863 substitution by proline (A863P) in S5 of domain II of Na(V)1.7. The functional effect of A863P was investigated by voltage-clamp analysis in human embryonic kidney 293 cells and by current-clamp analysis to determine the effects of A863P on firing properties of small DRG neurons. Activation of mutant channels was shifted by -8 mV, whereas steady-state fast inactivation was shifted by +10 mV, compared with wild-type (WT) channels. There was a marked decrease in the rate of deactivation of mutant channels, and currents elicited by slow ramp depolarizations were 12 times larger than for WT. These results suggested that A863P could render DRG neurons hyperexcitable. We tested this hypothesis by studying properties of rat DRG neurons transfected with either A863P or WT channels. A863P depolarized resting potential of DRG neurons by +6 mV compared with WT channels, reduced the threshold for triggering single action potentials to 63% of that for WT channels, and increased firing frequency of neurons when stimulated with suprathreshold stimuli. Thus, A863P mutant channels produce hyperexcitability in DRG neurons, which contributes to the pathophysiology of IEM.
Synaptotagmin-1, the Ca2+ sensor for fast neurotransmitter release, was proposed to function by Ca2+-dependent phospholipid binding and/or by Ca2+-dependent soluble N-ethylmaleimide-sensitive factor attachment protein receptor (SNARE) complex binding. Extensive in vivo data support the first hypothesis, but testing the second hypothesis has been difficult because no synaptotagmin-1 mutation is known that selectively interferes with SNARE complex binding. Using knock-in mice that carry aspartate-to-asparagine substitutions in a Ca2+-binding site of synaptotagmin-1 (the D232N or D238N substitutions), we now show that the D232N mutation dramatically increases Ca2+-dependent SNARE complex binding by native synaptotagmin-1, but leaves phospholipid binding unchanged. In contrast, the adjacent D238N mutation does not significantly affect SNARE complex binding, but decreases phospholipid binding. Electrophysiological recordings revealed that the D232N mutation increased Ca2+-triggered release, whereas the D238N mutation decreased release. These data establish that fast vesicle exocytosis is driven by a dual Ca2+-dependent activity of synaptotagmin-1, namely Ca2+-dependent binding both to SNARE complexes and to phospholipids.
The auditory hair cell resting potential is critical for proper translation of acoustic signals to the CNS, because it determines their filtering properties, their ability to respond to stimuli of both polarities, and, because the hair cell drives afferent firing rates, the resting potential dictates spontaneous transmitter release. In turtle auditory hair cells, the filtering properties are established by the interactions between BK calcium-activated potassium channels and an L-type calcium channel (electrical resonance). However, both theoretical and in vitro recordings indicate that a third conductance is required to set the resting potential to a point on the I(Ca) and I(BK) activation curves in which filtering is optimized like that found in vivo. Present data elucidate a novel mechanism, likely universal among hair cells, in which mechanoelectric transduction (MET) and its calcium-dependent adaptation provide the depolarizing current to establish the hair cell resting potential. First, mechanical block of the MET current hyperpolarized the membrane potential, resulting in broadband asymmetrical resonance. Second, altering steady-state adaptation by altering the [Ca2+] bathing the hair bundle changed the MET current at rest, the magnitude of which resulted in membrane potential changes that encompassed the best resonant voltage. The Ca2+ sensitivity of adaptation allowed for the first physiological estimate of endolymphatic Ca2+ near the MET channel (56 +/- 11 microM), a value similar to bulk endolymph levels. These effects of MET current on resting potential were independently confirmed using a theoretical model of electrical resonance that included the steady-state MET conductance.
Hippocampal firing patterns during behavior are reactivated during rest and subsequent slow-wave sleep. These reactivations occur during transient local field potential (LFP) events, termed sharp waves. Theories of hippocampal processing suggest that sharp waves arise from strengthened plasticity, and that the strengthened plasticity depends on repeated cofiring of pyramidal cells. We tested these predictions by recording neural ensembles and LFPs from rats running tasks requiring different levels of behavioral repetition. The number of sharp waves emitted increased during sessions with more regular behaviors. Reactivation became more similar to behavioral firing patterns across the session. This enhanced reactivation also depended on the regularity of the behavior. Additional studies in CA3 and CA1 found that the number of sharp waves emitted also increased in CA3 recordings as well as CA1, but that the time courses were different between the two structures.
Although exercise is known to promote mental health, a satisfactory understanding of the mechanism underlying this phenomenon has not yet been achieved. A new mechanism is proposed that is based on established concepts in cognitive psychology and the neurosciences as well as recent empirical work on the functional neuroanatomy of higher mental processes. Building on the fundamental principle that processing in the brain is competitive and the fact that the brain has finite metabolic resources, the transient hypofrontality hypothesis suggests that during exercise the extensive neural activation required to run motor patterns, assimilate sensory inputs, and coordinate autonomic regulation results in a concomitant transient decrease of neural activity in brain structures, such as the prefrontal cortex, that are not pertinent to performing the exercise. An exercise-induced state of frontal hypofunction can provide a coherent account of the influences of exercise on emotion and cognition. The new hypothesis is proposed primarily on the strength of its heuristic value, as it suggests several new avenues of research.
The present study aims at exploring the relationship between content-related aspects of delusions and hallucinations in schizophrenia and the basic domains of cognition, controlling for the other clinical and demographic variables that could produce bias in the interpretation of the results. Seventy stable schizophrenic patients were evaluated through psychiatric assessment and a neuropsychological battery including tests on attention, memory, perceptual-motor speed and executive functions. We found that the severity of negative symptoms was strongly correlated with poor performance in almost all domains of cognitive functions, while only the attentional deficit was correlated with positive symptoms. The relationships between different cognitive domains and specific types of delusions and hallucinations showed that thought insertion, guilt, grandiose, religious and somatic delusions were associated with impairment in different cognitive functions (verbal and visual memory, attention and executive functions). Voices arguing and tactile hallucinations were correlated to delay-recall memory function. Our results suggest that no specific cognitive pattern is associated with typical-content delusions and hallucinations. On the basis of our findings, cognitive impairments associated with delusions and hallucinations, as measured by our battery, seem not to play a central role in the genesis and the maintenance of these symptoms, suggesting a more complex model of pathogenesis.

Amblyopia results in a severe loss of positional information and in the ability to accurately enumerate objects (V. Sharma, D. M. Levi, &amp; S. A. Klein, 2000). In this study, we asked whether amblyopia also disrupts the ability to track a near-threshold change in the trajectory of a single target amongst multiple similar potential targets. In the first experiment, we examined the precision for detecting a deviation in the linear motion trajectory of a dot by measuring deviation thresholds as a function of the number of moving trajectories (T). As in normal observers, we found that in both eyes of amblyopes, threshold increases steeply as T increases from 1 to 4. Surprisingly, for T = 1-4, thresholds were essentially identical in both eyes of the amblyopes and were similar to those of normal observers. In a second experiment, we measured the precision for detecting a deviation in the orientation of a static, bilinear &quot;trajectory&quot; by again measuring deviation thresholds (i.e., angle discrimination) as a function of the number of oriented line &quot;trajectories&quot; (T). Relative to the nonamblyopic eye, amblyopes show a marked threshold elevation for a static target when T = 1. However, thresholds increased with T with approximately the same slope as in their preferred eye and in the eyes of the normal controls. We conclude that while amblyopia disrupts static angle discrimination, amblyopic dynamic deviation detection thresholds are normal or very nearly so.
We assessed the safety and efficacy of orally administered CC chemokine receptor 1 (CCR1) antagonist in 105 patients with relapsing/remitting MS (RRMS) in a 16-week, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial. The primary endpoint was the cumulative number of newly active lesions on serial MRI scans. Other MRI, immunologic, and clinical outcomes were also explored. No significant treatment difference was observed for any tested MRI variable. CCR1 does not contribute to initial leukocyte infiltration in RRMS.









Rett syndrome (RTT), a postnatal neurodevelopmental disorder, is caused by mutations in the methyl-CpG-binding protein 2 (MECP2) gene. Children with RTT display cognitive and motor abnormalities as well as autistic features. We studied mice bearing a truncated Mecp2 allele (Mecp2(308/Y) mice) and found evidence of increased anxiety-like behavior and an abnormal stress response as evidenced by elevated serum corticosterone levels. We found increased corticotropin-releasing hormone (Crh) gene expression in the paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus, the central amygdala, and the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis. Finally, we discovered that MeCP2 binds the Crh promoter, which is enriched for methylated CpG dinucleotides. In contrast, the MeCP2(308) protein was not detected at the Crh promoter. This study identifies Crh as a target of MeCP2 and implicates Crh overexpression in the development of specific features of the Mecp2(308/Y) mouse, thereby providing opportunities for clinical investigation and therapeutic intervention in RTT.

The syntheses and photophysical characterization of ZP9, 2-{2-chloro-6-hydroxy-3-oxo-5-[(2-{[pyridin-2-ylmethyl-(1H-pyrrol-2-ylmethyl)amino]methyl}phenylamino)methyl]-3H-xanthen-9-yl}benzoic acid, and ZP10, 2-{2-chloro-6-hydroxy-5-[(2-{[(1-methyl-1H-pyrrol-2-ylmethyl)pyridin-2-ylmethylamino]methyl}phenylamino)methyl]-3-oxo-3H-xanthen-9-yl}benzoic acid, two asymmetrically derivatized fluorescein-based dyes, are described. These sensors each contain an aniline-based ligand moiety functionalized with a pyridyl-amine-pyrrole group and have dissociation constants for Zn(II) in the sub-micromolar (ZP9) and low-micromolar (ZP10) range, which we define as &quot;midrange&quot;. They give approximately 12- (ZP9) and approximately 7-fold (ZP10) fluorescence turn-on immediately following Zn(II) addition at neutral pH and exhibit improved selectivity for Zn(II) compared to the di-(2-picolyl)amine-based Zinpyr (ZP) sensors. Confocal microscopy studies indicate that such asymmetrical fluorescein-based probes are cell permeable and Zn(II) responsive in vivo.
Cholinergic degeneration occurs in several neurodegenerative diseases. To investigate whether normal aging causes selective neurodegeneration, we compared counts of cholinergic neurons in the medial septum/vertical limb of the diagonal band and pedunculopontine and laterodorsal tegmental nuclei of the brainstem in young and aged Long-Evans rats characterized for their spatial learning ability in the Morris water maze. A subset of aged rats (aged-unimpaired) learned the spatial learning task as young rats, whereas another group (age-impaired) showed poorer learning than young animals. In the medial septum/diagonal band, there was a significant loss (-23%, P &lt; 0.02) of cholinergic neurons in aged-impaired animals compared with young subjects. In the brainstem, there were no significant differences in cholinergic cell number in any group. This selective loss of cholinergic neurons may, in part, account for the cognitive deficits observed in aging and, considering previous findings in this model, may be related to oxidative stress.
The cross-language identity effect refers to the benefit of processing a translation distractor in the cross-language picture-word interference task. The first event-related-potential evidence for this effect was obtained in a picture-naming priming task using Chinese-English bilinguals of languages with distinct scripts. The results indicated that parallel activation of both languages is a universal phenomenon in bilingual speech production. Furthermore, the present study revealed that the temporal course and magnitude of activation of the nontarget language during target language production was modulated by the relative proficiency in the two languages.
To evaluate the roles of complement in kainic acid (KA)-induced neuronal damages, the immunohistochemical localization of the complement protein C3 was examined in rat hippocampus after systemic KA injection. The immunoreactivity for C3 was found in glial cells in control rats, and such glial cells were increased in number after KA injection. Our confocal study showed that C3-positive glial cells were microglia. Three to seven days after KA, C3 immunoreactivity appeared in CA1 and CA3 pyramidal neurons. Double staining for C3 combined with the terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase-mediated dUTP nick end labelling showed that occurrence of C3 immunoreactivity in neurons coincided well with that of DNA fragmentation. Western blot analysis and RT-PCR experiments suggested local synthesis of C3 by brain cells. Our results suggest that C3 contributes greatly to neuronal death after systemic KA administration, and that microglia and neurons are the local source of C3 in KA-induced brain injury.
Cullin-5 (Cul-5), a member of the cullin gene family of scaffold proteins of E3 ubiquitin-ligase complexes, has a role in proteolysis and cell cycle regulation. We recently demonstrated that cul-5 mRNA is ubiquitously expressed in the central nervous system. The present study used quantitative real time polymerase chain reaction and western blotting to measure changes in cul-5 mRNA and Cul-5 protein expression, respectively, in the injured CNS in response to traumatic brain injury (TBI). cul-5 mRNA levels were significantly decreased in the ipsilateral rat cerebral cortex on Days 1 and 7, but not on Day 3 following TBI. In the ipsilateral hippocampus, cul-5 mRNA was significantly reduced on Day 1 after TBI. Cul-5 protein levels were significantly decreased in the ipsilateral rat cerebral cortex on Days 1-7 post-TBI while levels were significantly lower in the ipsilateral hippocampus on Days 3-7 post-TBI. Since Cul-5 is ubiquitously expressed in eukaryotic cells and is linked to proteasome-mediated protein degradation, it may have a role in CNS cell fate determination under conditions of traumatic stress.
A growing body of functional imaging studies suggests that human depression and anxiety symptoms are associated with functional abnormalities in the circuitry formed by the rostral anterior cingulate cortex (rACC) and its direct limbic and paralimbic connections. In rodents however, the role of the rACC (rCG1/rCG2) remains unknown in depression-related behaviours and elusive in acute anxiety. In order to address this, we specifically lesioned the rat rCG1/rCG2, and assessed the behavioural outcome using a modified forced swim test (FST) and the elevated plus maze (EPM), tests for depression and anxiety related behaviours respectively. Lesions of the rostral anterior cingulate cortex significantly increased the time spent immobile in the FST without affecting climbing or swimming performances, suggesting a pro-depressant effect. On the contrary, none of the parameters measured in the EPM was affected by the lesion. These data point to an involvement of the rCG1/rCG2 in depression-related coping behaviours.
Pregnancy and motherhood are life-altering events that result in a number of hormonal, neural and behavioral changes in the mother. Motherhood has been shown to influence spatial learning and memory performance of the mother. In turn new research has shown that reproductive experience (number of times pregnant and mothered) plays a significant role on spatial learning and memory performance. How long these changes persist after weaning and the role of pregnancy and/or mothering on these changes have yet to be fully investigated. The present study aimed to determine whether enhanced spatial working and/or reference memory in the mother is evident long after weaning and whether these effects are due, in part, to pregnancy or 'mothering' alone. Five groups of age-matched rats: multiparous, primiparous, nulliparous, pregnant-only and sensitized rats were tested approximately 1 month after weaning/pup-exposure, or 55 days after birth, on the spatial working/reference version of the radial arm maze. Results show that regardless of error type (reference or working memory errors), primiparous rats make fewer errors compared to multi- and nulli-parous rats, with a trend to enhanced memory compared to sensitized rats. In addition, pregnant-only rats completed the task on significantly fewer days than primiparous, multiparous, nulliparous and sensitized rats. Clearly the combination of first pregnancy and first mothering experience has a significant impact on hippocampus-dependent learning and memory performance in the mother.
Recent evidence suggest that encoding of spatial information based on extended surfaces may differ from encoding based on discrete arrays of local elements. Here we investigated the use of these different frames of reference in domestic chicks. Chicks were trained to search for food hidden under sawdust in the center of the floor of a square-shaped landmark array, with its center in coincidence with the center of a square-shaped enclosure. Displacement of the array to a corner caused a shift of searching behavior toward the array, the search activity spanning between the center of the arena and the center of the array. After changing distances between landmarks, chicks still searched in the central area. Asymmetries were apparent in chicks tested in monocular conditions, with left-eyed chicks being more affected by the overall enclosure and right-eyed chicks by local landmarks. These results suggest that chicks can use both distances from extended surfaces and local information provided by the landmarks of the array to orient in space. However, chicks do not seem to perceive the array as a whole configuration, rather they tend to rely only on single landmarks to locate the goal.
In a series of three experiments, simple reaction time (RT) was characterized with respect to a variable preparatory interval (PI) in order to investigate the relationship between interval timing and RT. In Experiment 1, it was shown that RT decreases as a function of PI and that this effect varies with amount of training. In Experiment 2, RT was shown to increase during probe trials that used a novel 6.25s PI, suggesting that the specific durations of the PIs encoded during initial training contribute to the PI effect on RT. In Experiment 3, 100 microg/kg i.p. of raclopride proportionally slowed RT as a function of the PI. These results are discussed within the context of neuropsychological models of interval timing and support an underlying role for cortico-striatal dopaminergic function in temporal processing and simple RT measurements.
Posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD) is the fourth most common psychiatric disorder. It is associated with cardiovascular disorders and irritable bowel syndrome (IBS). Besides stressful life-events, a prior history of gastrointestinal infection is a predisposing factor for the development of IBS. Only a proportion of persons exposed to traumatic events develop PTSD. Several factors, like genetic predisposition, stressor intensity, cognitive appraisal mechanisms and coping processes influence the likelihood of developing PTSD after exposure to a trauma. We used a single session of footshocks in rats, an animal model with a high degree of validity for PTSD, to study whether transient colonic inflammation alters local and distal visceral sensitivity, and whether reactivity to the open-field (low (LA) or high (HA) active) predicts long-term stress-induced behavioural and cardiovascular sensitisation and altered visceral pain sensitivity. A distention series and noise challenge were given 2 weeks after foot-shocks, followed by a transient colonic inflammation period and a second distention series and noise challenge 4 weeks after foot-shocks. During exposure to noise, both before and after inflammation, footshocked rats showed increased immobility compared to controls, which was significantly greater in LA rats than in HA rats. LA preshocked rats also showed a greater blood pressure response to the noise test, but this only became evident in the second noise-test. Neither footshocks nor colonic inflammation affected duodenal pain sensitivity. The results provide additional evidence for long-lasting cardiovascular hyperresponsivity after a stressful event and indicate that its degree is predicted by personality traits or coping style.
Schwann cells play an important role in peripheral nerve regeneration. Upon nerve injury, Schwann cells are activated and produce various proinflammatory cytokines and chemokines, resulting in the recruitment of macrophages and the phagocytosis of myelin debris. However, it is unclear how nerve injury induces Schwann cell activation. Recently, it was reported that necrotic cells induce immune cell activation via toll-like receptors (TLRs). This suggests that the TLRs expressed on Schwann cells may recognize nerve injury by binding to the endogenous ligands secreted by the damaged nerve, thereby inducing Schwann cell activation. To explore such a possibility, we stimulated rat Schwann cells with necrotic neuronal cells (NNC). The stimulation of Schwann cells with NNC induced the expression of various inflammatory mediators, including TNF-alpha and iNOS. Studies on the NNC-mediated intracellular signaling pathways revealed that p38 and JNK are involved in the NNC-mediated Schwann cell activation. In addition, NNC-induced proinflammatory gene expression was reduced in mouse Schwann cells derived from TLR2 or TLR3 knockout mice. In summary, these results suggest that necrotic neuronal cells induce inflammatory Schwann cell activation via TLR2 and TLR3, which might be involved in Wallerian degeneration upon peripheral nerve injury.
Membrane docking and fusion in neurons is a highly regulated process requiring the participation of a large number of SNAREs (soluble N-ethylmaleimide sensitive factor attachment protein receptors) and SNARE-interacting proteins. We found that mammalian Class C Vps protein complex associated specifically with nSec-1/Munc18-a, and syntaxin 1A both in vivo and in vitro. In contrast, VAMP2 and SNAP-25, other neuronal core complex proteins, did not interact. When co-transfected with the human growth hormone (hGH) reporter gene, mammalian Class C Vps proteins enhanced Ca2+-dependent exocytosis, which was abolished by the Ca2+-channel blocker nifedipine. In hippocampal primary cultures, the lentivirus-mediated overexpression of hVps18 increased asynchronous spontaneous synaptic release without changing mEPSCs. These results indicate that mammalian Class C Vps proteins are involved in the regulation of membrane docking and fusion through an interaction with neuronal specific SNARE molecules, nSec-1/Munc18-a and syntaxin 1A.
Isoaspartate formation in extracellular matrix proteins, by aspartate isomerization or asparagine deamidation, is generally viewed as a degradation reaction occurring in vivo during tissue aging. For instance, non-enzymatic isoaspartate formation at RGD-integrin binding sites causes loss of cell adhesion sites, which in turn can be enzymatically &quot;repaired&quot; to RGD by protein-l-isoAsp-O-methyltransferase. We show here that isoaspartate formation is also a mechanism for extracellular matrix activation. In particular, we show that deamidation of Asn263 at the Asn-Gly-Arg (NGR) site in fibronectin N-terminal region generates an alpha(v)beta3-integrin binding site containing the L-isoDGR sequence, which is enzymatically &quot;deactivated&quot; to DGR by protein-L-isoAsp-O-methyltransferase. Furthermore, rapid NGR-to-isoDGR sequence transition in fibronectin fragments generates alpha(v)beta3 antagonists (named &quot;isonectins&quot;) that competitively bind RGD binding sites and inhibit endothelial cell adhesion, proliferation, and tumor growth. Time-dependent generation of isoDGR may represent a sort of molecular clock for activating latent integrin binding sites in proteins.
Signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 (STAT3) can be stimulated by several G(s)-coupled receptors, but the precise mechanism of action has not yet been elucidated. We therefore examined the ability of Galpha(s)Q226L (Galpha(s)QL), a constitutively active mutant of Galpha(s), to stimulate STAT3 Tyr705 and Ser727 phosphorylations in human embryonic kidney 293 cells. Apart from Galpha(s)QL, the stimulation of Galpha(s) by cholera toxin or beta2-adrenergic receptor and the activation of adenylyl cyclase by forskolin, (Sp)-cAMP, or dibutyryl-cAMP all promoted both STAT3 Tyr705 and Ser727 phosphorylations. Moreover, the removal of Galpha(s) by RNA interference significantly reduced the beta2-adrenergic receptor-mediated STAT3 phosphorylations, denoting its capacity to regulate STAT3 activation by a G protein-coupled receptor. The possible downstream signaling molecules involved were assessed by using specific inhibitors and dominant negative mutants. Induction of STAT3 Tyr705 and Ser727 phosphorylations by Galpha(s)QL was suppressed by inhibition of protein kinase A, Janus kinase 2/3, Rac1, c-Jun N-terminal kinase (JNK), or phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase, and a similar profile was observed in response to beta2-adrenergic receptor stimulation. In contrast to the Galpha16-mediated regulation of STAT3 in HEK 293 cells (Lo, R. K., Cheung, H., and Wong, Y. H. (2003) J. Biol. Chem. 278, 52154-52165), the Galpha(s)-mediated responses, including STAT3-driven luciferase activation, were resistant to inhibition of phospholipase Cbeta. Surprisingly, Galpha(s)-mediated phosphorylation at Tyr705, but not at Ser727, was resistant to inhibition of c-Src, Raf-1, and MEK1/2 as well as to the expression of dominant negative Ras. Therefore, as with other Galpha-mediated activations of STAT3, the stimulatory signal arising from Galpha(s) is transduced via multiple signaling pathways. However, unlike the mechanisms employed by Galpha(i) and Galpha(14/16), Galpha(s) distinctively requires protein kinase A, JNK, and phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase for STAT3 activation.
The Nav1.7 sodium channel is preferentially expressed in most nociceptive dorsal root ganglion neurons and in sympathetic neurons. Inherited erythromelalgia (IEM, also known as erythermalgia), an autosomal dominant neuropathy characterized by burning pain in the extremities in response to mild warmth, has been linked to mutations in Nav1.7. Recently, a substitution of Ser-241 by threonine (S241T) in the domain I S4-S5 linker of Nav1.7 was identified in a family with IEM. To investigate the possible causative role of this mutation in the pathophysiology of IEM, we used whole-cell voltage-clamp analysis to study the effects of S241T on Nav1.7 gating in HEK293 cells. We found a hyperpolarizing shift of activation midpoint by 8.4 mV, an accelerated time to peak, slowing of deactivation, and an increase in the current in response to small, slow depolarizations. Additionally, S241T produced an enhancement of slow inactivation, shifting the midpoint by -12.3 mV. Because serine and threonine have similar biochemical properties, the S241T substitution suggested that the size of the side chain at this position affected channel gating. To test this hypothesis, we investigated the effect of S241A and S241L substitutions on the gating properties of Nav1.7. Although S241A did not alter the properties of the channel, S241L mimicked the effects of S241T. We conclude that the linker between S4 and S5 in domain I of Nav1.7 modulates gating of this channel, and that a larger side chain at position 241 interferes with its gating mechanisms.
Developing oligodendrocytes (OLs) are highly vulnerable to glutamate excitotoxicity. Although OL excitotoxicity is mainly mediated by alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazole propionate (AMPA) receptors (AMPARs) and is Ca2+-dependent, the molecular basis for AMPAR-mediated Ca2+ influx in OLs remains largely unclear. Ca2+ permeability of AMPARs is inversely correlated with the abundance of the AMPAR subunit glutamate receptor 2 (GluR2). Here we report that GluR2-containing and GluR2-lacking AMPARs are co-expressed in individual OLs and that a subset of AMPARs on each OL are Ca2+-permeable and mediate OL excitotoxicity. Virus-mediated overexpression of GluR2 reduces OL excitotoxicity, whereas expression of its unedited form GluR2(Q) enhances the excitotoxicity. These findings indicate that GluR2 critically controls OL excitotoxicity. During OL excitotoxicity, the transcriptional factor cAMP-response element-binding protein (CREB) is transiently phosphorylated and subsequently down-regulated. Virus-mediated expression of a constitutively active form of CREB, both in cultured OLs in vitro and in developing cerebral white matter in vivo, up-regulates GluR2, inhibits Ca2+ permeability, and protects OLs from excitotoxicity. Overall, these data suggest that targeting GluR2-lacking AMPARs or CREB may be a useful strategy for treating nervous system disorders associated with OL excitotoxicity.



Brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) is a potent modulator of hippocampal synaptic plasticity. Previously, we found that one of the targets of BDNF modulation is NR2B-containing NMDA receptors. Furthermore, exposure to the trophin rapidly increases NMDA receptor activity and enhances tyrosine phosphorylation of NR2B in cortical and hippocampal postsynaptic densities (PSDs), potentially linking receptor phosphorylation to synaptic plasticity. To define the specific NR2B residue(s) regulated by BDNF, we focused on tyrosine 1472, phosphorylation of which increases after LTP. BDNF rapidly increased phosphorylation in cortical PSDs. The tyrosine kinase Fyn is critical since BDNF-dependent phosphorylation was abolished in Fyn knockout mice. Single-channel patch clamp recordings showed that Fyn is required for the increase in NMDA receptor activity elicited by BDNF. Collectively, our results suggest that BDNF enhances phosphorylation of NR2B tyrosine 1472 through activation of Fyn, leading to alteration of NMDA receptor activity and increased synaptic transmission.
In adult female rats, estrogen receptor (ER) activation, particularly of ERbeta, promotes hippocampal neurogenesis. We previously reported that extranuclear ERbeta immunoreactivity (ir) in adult rats is on cellular profiles in or near the granule cell layer, which is the location of newly generated cells. During development, cells in or near the granule cell layer transiently express high levels of estrogen binding and nuclear ERs. Thus, we sought to determine if extranuclear ERbeta is in newly generated cells in adult and neonatal rat dentate gyrus. Sections from the dentate gyrus of adult proestrus or postnatal day 7 and 14 female rats were dual-labeled for ERbeta and the new-cell marker doublecortin (DCX) and examined by electron microscopy. DCX-containing neurons were found in the subgranular hilus in adult rats and were more widespread throughout the granule cell layer and hilus of neonatal rats. In both adults and neonatal rats, ERbeta immunoreactivity was found in a subset of DCX-labeled neurons. Electron microscopic examination of the adult dentate gyrus revealed that most perikarya with DCX-ir had the morphological characteristics of granule cells, although a few resembled interneurons. Dendrites with DCX-ir also were observed. In both adults and neonates, DCX-labeled neuronal perikarya and dendrites contained ERbeta-ir; ERbeta-ir usually was aggregated near the plasma membrane, mitochondria or endoplasmic reticula. ERbeta-ir was in glial profiles that apposed DCX-labeled perikarya and dendrites. These findings are consistent with data showing that estrogens can exert non-genomic effects directly and indirectly on newly generated cells in neonatal and adult rat dentate gyrus.
The aim of this fMRI study was to investigate and compare the neural mechanisms of selective attention during two different operationalizations of competition between task-relevant and task-irrelevant information: Stroop-incongruity and oddballs. For this purpose, we employed a Stroop-like oddball task in which subjects responded to the font size of presented word stimuli. Stroop-incongruity was created by (response-)incongruent word information while oddballs comprised low-frequency events in a task-irrelevant, unattended dimension. Thereby, in order to elucidate the influence of processing domain from which competition emanates, oddball conditions were created in two different attribute dimensions, color and word meaning. Either oddball condition was expected to evoke an orienting response, which participants would have to override in order to maintain adequate performance. Incongruent Stroop trials were expected to produce Stroop-interference so that subjects would have to override the predominant tendency to read and respond to word meaning. All competition conditions exhibited significantly prolonged reaction times compared to control trials, demonstrating that our experimental manipulation was indeed effective. fMRI data analyses delineated two discriminative components of competition: one component mainly related to motor preparation and another, primarily attentional component. Regarding the first, Stroop-interference increased activation mainly in regions implicated in motor control or response preparation. Regarding the second, Word-oddballs increased activation in a frontoparietal &quot;attention network&quot;. Furthermore, Word-oddballs and Color-oddballs exhibited striking activation overlap mainly in prefrontal regions but also in posterior processing areas. Here, the data emphasized a prominent role of posterior lateral PFC in implementing top-down attentional control.
In guinea pig retina, immunostaining reveals a dual gradient of opsins: cones expressing opsin sensitive to medium wavelengths (M) predominate in the upper retina, whereas cones expressing opsin sensitive to shorter wavelengths (S) predominate in the lower retina. Whether these gradients correspond to functional gradients in postreceptoral neurons is essentially unknown. Using monochromatic flashes, we measured the relative weights with which M, S, and rod signals contribute to horizontal cell responses. For a background that produced 4.76 log10 photoisomerizations per rod per second (Rh*/rod/s), mean weights in superior retina were 52% (M), 2% (S), and 46% (rod). Mean weights in inferior retina were 9% (M), 50% (S), and 41% (rod). In superior retina, cone opsin weights agreed quantitatively with relative pigment density estimates from immunostaining. In inferior retina, cone opsin weights agreed qualitatively with relative pigment density estimates, but quantitative comparison was impossible because individual cones coexpress both opsins to varying and unquantifiable degrees. We further characterized the functional gradients in horizontal and brisk-transient ganglion cells using flickering stimuli produced by various mixtures of blue and green primary lights. Cone weights for both cell types resembled those obtained for horizontal cells using monochromatic flashes. Because the brisk-transient ganglion cell is thought to mediate behavioral detection of luminance contrast, our results are consistent with the hypothesis that the dual gradient of cone opsins assists achromatic contrast detection against different spectral backgrounds. In our preparation, rod responses did not completely saturate, even at background light levels typical of outdoor sunlight (5.14 log10 Rh*/rod/s).
Fibroblast growth factor receptors (Fgfr) comprise a widely expressed family of developmental regulators implicated in oligodendrocyte (OL) maturation of the CNS. Fgfr2 is expressed by OLs in myelinated fiber tracks. In vitro, Fgfr2 is highly upregulated during OL terminal differentiation, and its activation leads to enhanced growth of OL processes and the formation of myelin-like membranes. To investigate the in vivo function of Fgfr2 signaling by myelinating glial cells, we inactivated the floxed Fgfr2 gene in mice that coexpress Cre recombinase (cre) as a knock-in gene into the OL-specific 2',3'-cyclic nucleotide phosphodiesterase (Cnp1) locus. Surprisingly, no obvious defects were detected in brain development of these conditional mutants, including the number of OLs, the onset and extent of myelination, the ultrastructure of myelin, and the expression level of myelin proteins. However, unexpectedly, a subset of these conditional Fgfr2 knock-out mice that are homozygous for cre and therefore are also Cnp1 null, displayed a dramatic hyperactive behavior starting at approximately 2 weeks of age. This hyperactivity was abolished by treatment with dopamine receptor antagonists or catecholamine biosynthesis inhibitors, suggesting that the symptoms involve a dysregulation of the dopaminergic system. Although the molecular mechanisms are presently unknown, this novel mouse model of hyperactivity demonstrates the potential involvement of OLs in neuropsychiatric disorders, as well as the nonpredictable role of genetic interactions in the behavioral phenotype of mice.
Dopamine (DA) modulates neuronal activity in the prefrontal cortex (PFC) and is necessary for optimal cognitive function. Dopamine transmission in the PFC is also important for the behavioral adaptations produced by repeated exposure to cocaine. Therefore, we investigated the effects of repeated cocaine treatment followed by withdrawal (2-4 weeks) on the responsivity of cortical cells to electrical stimulation of the ventral tegmental area (VTA) and to systemic administration of DA D1 or D2 receptor antagonists. Cortical cells in cocaine- and saline-treated animals exhibited a similar decrease in excitability after the administration of D1 receptor antagonists. In contrast, cortical neurons from cocaine-treated rats exhibited a lack of D2-mediated regulation relative to saline rats. Furthermore, in contrast to saline-treated animals, VTA stimulation did not increase cortical excitability in the cocaine group. These data suggest that withdrawal from repeated cocaine administration elicits some long-term neuroadaptations in the PFC, including (1) reduced D2-mediated regulation of cortical excitability, (2) reduced responsivity of cortical cells to phasic increases in DA, and (3) a trend toward an overall decrease in excitability of PFC neurons.
Glutamatergic excitatory neurotransmission is dependent on glutamate release from presynaptic vesicles loaded by three members of the solute carrier family, Slc17a6-8, which function as vesicular glutamate transporters (VGLUTs). Here, we show that VGLUT2 (Slc17a6) is required for life ex utero. Vglut2 null mutant mice die immediately after birth because of the absence of respiratory behavior. Investigations at embryonic stages revealed that neural circuits in the location of the pre-Btzinger (PBC) inspiratory rhythm generator failed to become active. However, neurons with bursting pacemaker properties and anatomical integrity of the PBC area were preserved. Vesicles at asymmetric synapses were fewer and malformed in the Vglut2 null mutant hindbrain, probably causing the complete disruption of AMPA/kainate receptor-mediated synaptic activity in mutant PBC cells. The functional deficit results from an inability of PBC neurons to achieve synchronous activation. In contrast to respiratory rhythm generation, the locomotor central pattern generator of Vglut2 null mutant mice displayed normal rhythmic and coordinated activity, suggesting differences in their operating principles. Hence, the present study identifies VGLUT2-mediated signaling as an obligatory component of the developing respiratory rhythm generator.
The basal ganglia and cerebellum are considered to play a role in timing, although their differential roles in timing remain unclear. It has been proposed that the timing of short milliseconds-range intervals involves the cerebellum, whereas longer seconds-range intervals engage the basal ganglia (Ivry, 1996). We tested this hypothesis using positron emission tomography to measure regional cerebral blood flow in eight right-handed males during estimation and reproduction of long and short intervals. Subjects performed three tasks: (1) reproduction of a short 500 ms interval, (2) reproduction of a long 2 s interval, and (3) a control simple reaction time (RT) task. We compared the two time reproduction tasks with the control RT task to investigate activity associated with temporal processing once additional cognitive, motor, or sensory processing was controlled. We found foci in the left substantia nigra and the left lateral premotor cortex to be significantly more activated in the time reproduction tasks than the control RT task. The left caudate nucleus and right cerebellum were more active in the short relative to the long interval, whereas greater activation of the right putamen and right cerebellum occurred in the long rather than the short interval. These results suggest that the basal ganglia and the cerebellum are engaged by reproduction of both long and short intervals but play different roles. The fundamental role of the substantia nigra in temporal processing is discussed in relation to previous animal lesion studies and evidence for the modulating influence of dopamine on temporal processing.
The hypothesis that Nogo-A (Reticulon 4A) and Nogo-66 receptor (NgR1) limit adult CNS axonal growth after injury is supported by both in vitro experiments and in vivo pharmacological studies. However, genetic assessment of the role of Nogo-A in corticospinal tract (CST) axons after spinal cord dorsal hemisection has yielded conflicting results. CST regeneration is detected in homozygous nogo-ab(trap/trap) mice, but not in nogo-ab(atg/atg) mice. CST regeneration is also present after pharmacological NgR blockade, but not in ngr1(-/-) mice. To assess the nogo-ab(atg) and ngr1-null alleles for other axon growth phenotypes, we created unilateral pyramidotomies and monitored the uninjured CST. There is robust pyramidotomy-induced growth of nogo-ab(atg/atg) and ngr1(-/-) CST axons into denervated cervical gray matter. This fiber growth correlates with recovery of fine motor skill in the affected forelimb. Thus nogo-ab and ngr1 play a modulated role in limiting CNS axonal growth across a spectrum of different tracts in various lesion models.
The majority of mature excitatory synapses in the CNS are found on dendritic spines and contain AMPA- and NMDA-type glutamate receptors apposed to presynaptic specializations. EphB receptor tyrosine kinase signaling has been implicated in both NMDA-type glutamate receptor clustering and dendritic spine formation, but it remains unclear whether EphB plays a broader role in presynaptic and postsynaptic development. Here, we find that EphB2 is involved in organizing excitatory synapses through the independent activities of particular EphB2 protein domains. We demonstrate that EphB2 controls AMPA-type glutamate receptor localization through PDZ (postsynaptic density-95/Discs large/zona occludens-1) binding domain interactions and triggers presynaptic differentiation via its ephrin binding domain. Knockdown of EphB2 in dissociated neurons results in decreased functional synaptic inputs, spines, and presynaptic specializations. Mice lacking EphB1-EphB3 have reduced numbers of synapses, and defects are rescued with postnatal reexpression of EphB2 in single neurons in brain slice. These results demonstrate that EphB2 acts to control the organization of specific classes of mature glutamatergic synapses.
Homeostatic signaling systems are thought to interface with the mechanisms of neural plasticity to achieve stable yet flexible neural circuitry. However, the time course, molecular design, and implementation of homeostatic signaling remain poorly defined. Here we demonstrate that a homeostatic increase in presynaptic neurotransmitter release can be induced within minutes following postsynaptic glutamate receptor blockade. The rapid induction of synaptic homeostasis is independent of new protein synthesis and does not require evoked neurotransmission, indicating that a change in the efficacy of spontaneous quantal release events is sufficient to trigger the induction of synaptic homeostasis. Finally, both the rapid induction and the sustained expression of synaptic homeostasis are blocked by mutations that disrupt the pore-forming subunit of the presynaptic Ca(V)2.1 calcium channel encoded by cacophony. These data confirm the presynaptic expression of synaptic homeostasis and implicate presynaptic Ca(V)2.1 in a homeostatic retrograde signaling system.
Voltage-activated potassium (K(v)) channels contain a central pore domain that is partially surrounded by four voltage-sensing domains. Recent X-ray structures suggest that the two domains lack extensive protein-protein contacts within presumed transmembrane regions, but whether this is the case for functional channels embedded in lipid membranes remains to be tested. We investigated domain interactions in the Shaker K(v) channel by systematically mutating the pore domain and assessing tolerance by examining channel maturation, S4 gating charge movement, and channel opening. When mapped onto the X-ray structure of the K(v)1.2 channel the large number of permissive mutations support the notion of relatively independent domains, consistent with crystallographic studies. Inspection of the maps also identifies portions of the interface where residues are sensitive to mutation, an external cluster where mutations hinder voltage sensor activation, and an internal cluster where domain interactions between S4 and S5 helices from adjacent subunits appear crucial for the concerted opening transition.
Son of sevenless (Sos) is a dual specificity guanine nucleotide exchange factor (GEF) that regulates both Ras and Rho family GTPases and thus is uniquely poised to integrate signals that affect both gene expression and cytoskeletal reorganization. Here, using genetics, biochemistry, and cell biology, we demonstrate that Sos is recruited to the plasma membrane, where it forms a ternary complex with the Roundabout receptor and the SH3-SH2 adaptor protein Dreadlocks (Dock) to regulate Rac-dependent cytoskeletal rearrangement in response to the Slit ligand. Intriguingly, the Ras and Rac-GEF activities of Sos can be uncoupled during Robo-mediated axon repulsion; Sos axon guidance function depends on its Rac-GEF activity, but not its Ras-GEF activity. These results provide in vivo evidence that the Ras and RhoGEF domains of Sos are separable signaling modules and support a model in which Robo recruits Sos to the membrane via Dock to activate Rac during midline repulsion.
Experience-dependent plasticity is a prominent feature of the mammalian visual cortex. Although such neural changes are most evident during development, adult cortical circuits can be modified by a variety of manipulations, such as perceptual learning and visual deprivation. Elucidating the underlying mechanisms at the cellular and synaptic levels is an essential step in understanding neural plasticity in the mature animal. Although developmental and adult plasticity share many common features, notable differences may be attributed to developmental cortical changes at multiple levels. These range from shifts in the molecular profiles of cortical neurons to changes in the spatiotemporal dynamics of network activity. In this review, we will discuss recent progress and remaining challenges in understanding adult visual plasticity, focusing on the primary visual cortex.
A new study of congenitally blind participants has provided important insights into the neuronal mechanisms of brain reorganization after injury, with implications for our knowledge of other cross-modal phenomena, such as synaesthesia, and for the generation of qualia.

This study investigated the effect of the gamma-aminobutyric acid(B) (GABA(B)) receptor agonist, baclofen, on alcohol deprivation effect (the transient increase in alcohol intake occurring after a period of alcohol abstinence) in Sardinian alcohol-preferring (sP) rats exposed to 4 bottles containing water and 10%, 20%, and 30% (v/v) alcohol, respectively. Acute administration of baclofen (1 mg/kg, i.p.) suppressed both aspects of alcohol deprivation effect: the extra-intake of alcohol and the selection of the highest concentrated alcohol solution. These results suggest that the GABA(B) receptor is part of the neural substrate mediating alcohol deprivation in sP rats.
Periodate-oxidized 2',3'-dialdehyde ATP (oxidized ATP) has been used extensively as a selective antagonist at P2X(7) receptors, although P2X(7)-independent actions on pro-inflammatory cytokine release have also been reported. Because P2X(7) receptors in astrocytes have been suggested as potential targets of anti-inflammatory drug therapy, we examined the effect of oxidized ATP on beta-actin expression and superoxide production of RBA-2 type-2 astrocytes known to possess P2X(7) receptors. Oxidized ATP per se decreased beta-actin expression time and dose dependently. Treatment with oxidized ATP for 8 h caused an approximately 50% decrease in beta-actin expression whereas other P2 receptor antagonists, brilliant blue G (BBG), suramin and pyridoxal phosphate-6-azophenyl-2',4'-disulfonic acid (PPADS), were not effective. In addition, oxidized ATP per se decreased the intracellular superoxide concentration, whereas ATP and the P2X(7) receptor-selective agonist 3'-O-(4-benzoylbenzoyl)adenosine 5'-triphosphate (BzATP) stimulated intracellular superoxide production, an effect inhibited by oxidized ATP. In addition, oxidized ATP neither affected cellular viability nor affected interleukin-1beta, converting enzyme (ICE)-like protease activity in these astrocytes. To further elucidate the mechanism, the effects of oxidized ATP on intracellular superoxide concentration and beta-actin expression were examined in a P2X(7) receptor-negative astrocyte cell line, IA-1g1. Oxidized ATP-induced a time-dependent decrease in intracellular superoxide concentration whereas oxidized ATP had no effect on beta-actin expression. Nevertheless, oxidized ATP altered f-actin cytoskeleton arrangement in IA-1g1 astrocytes. Taken together, these results indicate that oxidized ATP per se caused a cell specific decrease in beta-actin expression in RBA-2 type-2 astrocytes. In addition, oxidized ATP decreased intracellular superoxide concentrations and altered f-actin cytoskeleton arrangement in both P2X(7) receptor-positive and -negative astrocytes. Thus, we conclude from these results that the effects of oxidized ATP on actin and superoxide are mediated through mechanisms that are at least in part, independent of P2X(7) receptors.
Comparisons of gene expression between human and non-human primate brains have identified hundreds of differentially expressed genes, yet translating these lists into key functional distinctions between species has proved difficult. Here we provide a more integrated view of human brain evolution by examining the large-scale organization of gene coexpression networks in human and chimpanzee brains. We identify modules of coexpressed genes that correspond to discrete brain regions and quantify their conservation between the species. Module conservation in cerebral cortex is significantly weaker than module conservation in subcortical brain regions, revealing a striking gradient that parallels known evolutionary hierarchies. We introduce a method for identifying species-specific network connections and demonstrate how differential network connectivity can be used to identify key drivers of evolutionary change. By integrating our results with comparative genomic sequence data and estimates of protein sequence divergence rates, we confirm a number of network predictions and validate these findings. Our results provide insights into the molecular bases of primate brain organization and demonstrate the general utility of weighted gene coexpression network analysis.
In some individuals, fearful experiences (e.g., combat) yield persistent and debilitating psychological disturbances, including posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD). Early intervention (e.g., debriefing) after psychological trauma is widely practiced and argued to be an effective strategy for limiting subsequent psychopathology, although there has been considerable debate on this point. Here we show in an animal model of traumatic fear that early intervention shortly after an aversive experience yields poor long-term fear reduction. Extinction trials administered minutes after aversive fear conditioning in rats suppressed fear acutely, but fear suppression was not maintained the next day. In contrast, delivering extinction trials 1 day after fear conditioning produced an enduring suppression of fear memory. We further show that the recent experience of an aversive event, not the timing of the extinction intervention per se, inhibits the development of long-term fear extinction. These results reveal that the level of fear present at the time of intervention is a critical factor in the efficacy of extinction. Importantly, our work suggests that early intervention may not yield optimal outcomes in reducing posttraumatic stress, particularly after severe trauma.
Brain cytokine mRNA levels are impacted by systemic cytokines. For example, systemic interleukin-1beta (IL1beta) increases brain IL1beta mRNA; subdiaphragmatic vagotomy blocks this effect. To localize which brain regions respond to intraperitoneal cytokines, we measured mRNA levels in selected brain regions for a variety of cytokines and growth factors, IL1beta, TNFalpha, interleukin-6 (IL-6), interleukin-10 (IL10), nerve growth factor (NGF) and brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF). Relative to saline administration, IL1beta increased IL1beta, TNFalpha and IL6 mRNAs in the nucleus tractus solitarius (NTS), hypothalamus, hippocampus and somatosensory cortex (SSctx), but did not induce any changes in IL10. TNFalpha also increased TNFalpha and IL1beta mRNAs in the hypothalamus, hippocampus and SSctx. TNFalpha increased TNFalpha, IL1beta and IL10 mRNAs in the NTS, but did not induce any changes in IL-6 mRNA. In the amygdala, IL1beta enhanced IL6 mRNA and TNFalpha increased IL1beta mRNAs. In the insular cortex, IL1beta enhanced IL6 mRNA and TNFalpha increased IL1beta mRNA. TNFalpha administration increased NGF mRNA in the SSctx but decreased NGF and BDNF mRNA levels in the insular cortex. Both IL1beta and TNFalpha decreased BDNF mRNA in the amygdala. We also verified the IL1beta-induced increases in TNFalpha mRNA within the NTS using in situ hybridization. These results support the hypothesis that somnogenic doses of IL1beta and TNFalpha enhance their own mRNA levels as well as affect mRNA levels for other sleep-promoting substances.
In Parkinson disease (PD), the subthalamic nucleus (STN) becomes hyperactive (disinhibited), which is reported to cause excitotoxic damage to midbrain dopaminergic neurons. Here, we examined whether silencing of the hyperactive STN by chronic bilateral deep brain stimulation (DBS) increased the survival of midbrain dopaminergic neurons in a rat model of PD. High-precision design-based stereologic examination of the total number of neurons and tyrosine tydroxylase (TH) immunoreactive neurons in the substantia nigra pars compacta revealed that STN DBS resulted in a significant survival of these neurons. These data provide the first evidence in vivo that bilateral STN DBS is useful for protecting midbrain dopaminergic neurons from cell death in PD.
Neuropeptide Y (NPY), a 36-amino-acid peptide, mediates biological effects by activating Y1, Y2, Y5, and y6 receptors. NPY neurons innervate many brain regions, including the hypothalamus, where NPY is involved in regulation of a broad range of homeostatic functions. We examined, by immunohistochemistry with tyramide signal amplification, the expression of the NPY Y2 receptor (Y2R) in the mouse brain with a newly developed rabbit polyclonal antibody. Y2R immunoreactivity was specific with its absence in Y2R knockout (KO) mice and in adjacent sections following preadsorption with the immunogenic peptide (10(-5) M). Y2R-positive processes were located in many brain regions, including the olfactory bulb, some cortical areas, septum, basal forebrain, nucleus accumbens, amygdala, hippocampus, hypothalamus, substantia nigra compacta, locus coeruleus, and solitary tract nucleus. However, colchicine treatment was needed to detect Y2R-like immunoreactivity in cell bodies in many, but not all, areas. The densest distributions of cell bodies were located in the septum basal forebrain, including the bed nucleus, and amygdala, with lower density in the anterior olfactory nucleus, nucleus accumbens, caudal striatum, CA1, CA2, and CA3 hippocampal fields, preoptic nuclei lateral hypothalamus, and A13 DA cells. The widespread distribution of Y2R-positive cell bodies and fibers suggests that NPY signaling through the Y2R is common in the mouse brain. Localization of the Y2R suggests that it is mostly presynaptic, a view supported by its frequent absence in cell bodies in the normal mouse and its dramatic increase in cell bodies of colchicine-treated mice.
Cannabinoids are antinociceptive in animal models of acute, tissue injury-, and nerve injury-induced nociception. This review examines the biology of endogenous cannabinoids (endocannabinoids) and behavioral, neurophysiological, and neuroanatomical evidence supporting the notion that cannabinoids play a role in pain modulation. Behavioral pharmacological approaches, in conjunction with the identification and quantification of endocannabinoids through the use of liquid and gas chromatography mass spectrometry, have provided insight into the functional roles of endocannabinoids in pain modulation. Here we examine the distribution of cannabinoid receptors and endocannabinoid-hydrolyzing enzymes within pain modulatory circuits together with behavioral, neurochemical, and neurophysiological studies that suggest a role for endocannabinoid signaling in pain modulation. This review will provide a comprehensive evaluation of the roles of the endocannabinoids 2-arachidonoylglycerol and anandamide in stress-induced analgesia. These findings provide a functional framework with which to understand the roles of endocannabinoids in nociceptive processing at the supraspinal level.
DNA fragmentation factors (DFF) form protein complexes consisting of nuclease DFF40/CAD and inhibitory chaperon DFF45/ICAD. Although activated caspase-3 has been shown to cleave DFF complexes with the release of active DFF40 and DNA fragmentation, the organ-specific mechanisms of DFF turnover during liver injury accompanied by massive apoptosis are unclear. In this study, we investigated hepatic profile of DFF40-immunopositive proteins in two models of liver injury in rats: acute ischemia/reperfusion (I/R) and chronic alcohol administration. We show that DFF40-like proteins occur in intact rat liver mainly as a 52kDa protein. Hepatic I/R-induced caspase-3 activation and a time-dependent accumulation of DFF40-positive protein fragments (40 and 20kDa), most likely via specific caspase-3 cleavage as evidenced by in vitro digestion of intact liver tissue with recombinant caspase-3. In addition, immunoprecipitation with DFF40 followed by Western blot with active caspase-3 antibody revealed the presence of active caspase-3 in DFF40-immunopositive 20kDa proteins. Chronic alcohol administration in rats also resulted in a dose-dependent fragmentation of DFF40 proteins similar to I/R injury. Collectively, these data demonstrate that DFF40 immunopositive proteins exist in the liver as distinct, tissue-specific molecular forms that may be processed by caspase-3 during both acute and chronic liver injury.
SCP-1, n-[alpha-(benzisothiazol-3(2ho-ona,1-dioxide-2yl)-acetyl]-p-aminophenol (100 nmol), when intrathecally injected, suppressed tactile allodynia and thermal hyperalgesia in a rat neuropathic pain model. The tactile allodynia suppression lasted for at least 4h and SCP-M1 (100 nmol), the main metabolite of SCP-1, displayed similar suppression as SCP-1, but shorter latency, indicating SCP-M1 may be the bioactive component of SCP-1. Acetaminophen was less potent than SCP-1 and SCP-M1. To study mechanisms underlying SCP-1 action, we recorded voltage-gated Ca(2+) channel currents in acutely isolated dorsal root ganglion neurons using the whole-cell patch-clamp technique. SCP-1 and SCP-M1 inhibited non-L-type calcium channel currents up to 23.0+/-2.3% and 23.1+/-3.5%, respectively, at a depolarized pulse to -10 mV from a holding potential of -80 mV. Acetaminophen only induced 6.8+/-1.0% inhibition. The results suggest SCP-1 possesses anti-nociceptive activity in the rat model involving calcium channel blocking properties.
Cysteinyl leukotrienes (including LTC(4), LTD(4), and LTE(4)), potent inflammatory mediators, can induce brain-blood barrier (BBB) disruption and brain edema. These reactions are mediated by their receptors, CysLT(1) and CysLT(2) receptors. On the other hand, aquaporin 4 (AQP4) primarily modulates brain water homeostasis and edema after various injuries. Here, we aimed to determine whether AQP4 is involved in LTD(4)-induced brain edema. LTD(4) (1ng in 0.5mul PBS) microinjection into the cortex increased endogenous IgG exudation (BBB disruption) and water content (brain edema), and enhanced AQP4 expression in mouse brain. The selective CysLT(1) receptor antagonist pranlukast inhibited the IgG exudation, but not the increased water content and AQP4 expression induced by LTD(4). In the cultured rat astrocytes, LTD(4) (10(-9)-10(-7)M, for 24h) similarly enhanced AQP4 expression. The enhanced AQP4 expression was inhibited by Bay u9773, a non-selective CysLT(1)/CysLT(2) receptor antagonist, but not by pranlukast. LTD(4) (10(-9)-10(-7)M) also induced the mRNA expression of CysLT(2) (not CysLT(1)) receptor in astrocytes. These results indicate that LTD(4) modulates brain edema; CysLT(1) receptor mediates vasogenic edema while CysLT(2) receptor may mediate cytotoxic edema via up-regulating AQP4 expression.
Synaptic vesicles mediate the release of neurotransmitters at nerve terminals. In this issue of Cell, Takamori et al. (2006) analyze the lipid and protein components of synaptic vesicles, providing the most comprehensive description of synaptic vesicles to date.
Numerous cytoplasmic adaptor proteins, including JIP1, FE65, and X11alpha, affect amyloid precursor protein (APP) processing and Abeta production. Dab1 is another adaptor protein that interacts with APP as well as with members of the apoE receptor family. We examined the effect of Dab1 on APP and apoEr2 processing in transfected cells and primary neurons. Dab1 interacted with APP and apoEr2 and increased levels of their secreted extracellular domains and their cytoplasmic C-terminal fragments. These effects depended on the NPXY domains of APP and apoEr2 and on the phosphotyrosine binding domain of Dab1 but did not depend on phosphorylation of Dab1. Dab1 decreased the levels of APP beta-C-terminal fragment and secreted Abeta. Full-length Dab1 or its phosphotyrosine binding domain alone increased surface levels of APP, as determined by surface protein biotinylation and live cell staining. A ligand for apoEr2, the extracellular matrix protein Reelin, significantly increased the interaction of apoEr2 with Dab1. Surprisingly, we also found that Reelin treatment significantly increased the interaction of APP and Dab1. Moreover, Reelin treatment increased cleavage of APP and apoEr2 and decreased production of the beta-C-terminal fragment of APP and Abeta. Together, these data suggest that Dab1 alters trafficking and processing of APP and apoEr2, and this effect is influenced by extracellular ligands.
Tropomyosin is a coiled-coil protein that binds head-to-tail along the length of actin filaments in eukaryotic cells, stabilizing them and providing protection from severing proteins. Tropomyosin cooperatively regulates actin's interaction with myosin and mediates the Ca2+ -dependent regulation of contraction by troponin in striated muscles. The N-terminal and C-terminal ends are critical functional determinants that form an &quot;overlap complex&quot;. Here we report the solution NMR structure of an overlap complex formed of model peptides. In the complex, the chains of the C-terminal coiled coil spread apart to allow insertion of 11 residues of the N-terminal coiled coil into the resulting cleft. The plane of the N-terminal coiled coil is rotated 90 degrees relative to the plane of the C terminus. A consequence of the geometry is that the orientation of postulated periodic actin binding sites on the coiled-coil surface is retained from one molecule to the next along the actin filament when the overlap complex is modeled into the X-ray structure of tropomyosin determined at 7 Angstroms. Nuclear relaxation NMR data reveal flexibility of the junction, which may function to optimize binding along the helical actin filament and to allow mobility of tropomyosin on the filament surface as it switches between regulatory states.
We previously reported that treatment and withdrawal from cocaine increases: (1) 5-HT2A receptor-mediated neuroendocrine responses, and (2) Galphaq and Galpha11 G-protein levels in the hypothalamic paraventricular nucleus (PVN) at 48 h post-treatment. This study investigates changes in the initial 24 h of withdrawal to discern whether 5-HT2A receptor supersensitivity is due to cocaine treatment or is induced during the withdrawal period. We report here increases in 5-HT2A receptor-mediated neuroendocrine responses only 12 or 24 h post-treatment, but not during the initial 4 h withdrawal period. Levels of membrane- or cytosol-associated Galphaq or Galpha11 proteins in PVN are not altered during the first 24 h of withdrawal. However, the density of 125I-(-)-1-(2,5 dimethoxy-4-iodophenyl)-2-amino-propane HCl (DOI)-labeled high-affinity 5-HT2A receptors in PVN increased 35% in rats withdrawn from cocaine for 24 h. These findings demonstrate that cocaine-induced increases in 5-HT2A receptor function in PVN represents a withdrawal-induced phenomena that: (1) is likely attributed to increased G-protein coupled/high-affinity conformational state of the 5-HT2A receptor, and (2) occurs in the absence of changes in the levels of associated G proteins during the first 24 h.
Opioid signaling in the nucleus accumbens (NAcc) regulates feeding behavior, having particularly strong effects on consumption of highly palatable foods. Since macronutrient content may contribute to palatability, it is uncertain whether opioid regulation of food consumption is based primarily on its macronutrient content or its flavor per se. In order to isolate the effect of flavor, we manipulated opioid signaling in the NAcc in rats and quantified consumption of differently flavored but nutritionally identical pellets. When pellets of either flavor were presented alone, microinjection of d-Ala(2),N,Me-Phe(4),Gly-ol(5)-enkephalin (DAMGO (a mu opioid receptor (MOP) agonist)) into the NAcc increased consumption of pellets of both flavors equally. When both flavors of pellets were presented simultaneously, however, DAMGO in the NAcc selectively increased, while naltrexone (a non-selective opioid antagonist) in the NAcc selectively decreased, consumption of the more preferred flavor. Systemic naltrexone injection had no flavor specific effects, decreasing consumption of both flavors equally. Non-selective inactivation of NAcc neurons by local microinjection of muscimol (a GABA(A) agonist) increased consumption of both the more- and less-preferred flavors equally. These results indicate that opioid signaling directly regulates a subset of NAcc neurons that can selectively enhance consumption of preferred palatable foods based exclusively on flavor cues.
Prenatal exposures to a variety of infections have been associated with an increased incidence of schizophrenia. We have reported that a single injection of the synthetic cytokine releaser PolyI:C to pregnant mice produced offspring that exhibited multiple schizophrenia-related behavioral deficits in adulthood. Here, we characterized the effect of maternal inflammation during fetal brain development on adult limbic morphology and expression of GABAA-receptors. The PolyI:C treatment did not induce morphological abnormalities but resulted in a significant increase in GABAA receptor subunit alpha2 immunoreactivity (IR) in the ventral dentate gyrus and basolateral amygdala in adult treated compared to control subjects. Correlative analyses between the a2 subunit IR in the ventral dentate gyrus and the performance in the prepulse inhibition paradigm revealed a significant correlation in controls that was however absent in the pathological condition. These results suggest that prenatal immune activation-induced disturbances of early brain development result in profound alterations in the limbic expression of GABAA receptors that may underlie the schizophrenia-related behavioral deficits in the adult mice.
The diencephalon is the most complex area of the vertebrate brain, being particularly complex in amniotes. It has been suggested that diencephalic regionalization partially depends on local signaling mediated by sonic hedgehog (Shh). However, since the Shh gene is expressed in both the diencephalic basal plate and the zona limitans intrathalamica (ZLI), it is still unclear which of these tissues exerts morphogenetic influence on thalamic regionalization. In the present study using chick and quail embryos, we have found that although Shh from the ZLI and the basal plate induces ectopic expression of diencephalic genes in the posterior prosencephalic alar plate, only Shh originating from the ZLI can induce ectopic gene expression in the anterior alar plate, indicating that the ZLI exerts specific activity in the anterior epithelium. By introducing microbarriers between the diencephalic alar neuroepithelium and either the ZLI or the basal plate, we generated local loss of Shh expression in the ZLI, leading to alterations in molecular regionalization and subsequently, in the nuclear organization of the alar diencephalic derivatives on both sides of the ZLI. We thus demonstrate in vivo that basal signals are required to induce Shh expression in the ZLI and that Shh from the ZLI plays a pivotal role in regionalizing the alar diencephalon. The structural phenotype of Shh abolition in the ZLI consisted of a progressive pattern of alterations in diencephalic organization which were associated with the observed gradient effects in the molecular regionalization of the diencephalon. We conclude that the ZLI is a secondary organizer which exerts its morphogenetic activity through Shh.
The primary objective of this study was to determine whether circulating factors gain direct access to and affect the activity of vagal afferent cell bodies in the nodose ganglia and glossopharyngeal afferents cell bodies in the petrosal ganglia, of the rat. We found that the occipital and internal carotid arteries provided the sole blood supply to the nodose ganglia, and that i.v. injections of the tracer, Basic Blue 9, elicited strong cytoplasmic staining in vagal and glossopharyngeal afferent cell bodies that was prevented by prior ligation of the occipital but not the internal carotid arteries. We also found that occipital artery injections of 5-HT elicited pronounced dose-dependent reductions in heart rate and diastolic arterial blood pressure that were (1) virtually abolished after application of the local anesthetic, procaine, to the ipsilateral nodose and petrosal ganglia, (2) markedly attenuated after transection of the ipsilateral vagus between the nodose ganglion and brain and virtually abolished after subsequent transection of the ipsilateral glossopharyngeal nerve between the petrosal ganglion and the brain, (3) augmented after ipsilateral transection of the aortic depressor and carotid sinus nerves, and (4) augmented after transection of all ipsilateral glossopharyngeal and vagal afferent nerves except for vagal cardiopulmonary afferents. These findings suggest that blood-borne 5-HT in the occipital artery gains direct access to and activates the cell bodies of vagal cardiopulmonary afferents of the rat and glossopharyngeal afferents of undetermined modalities.
Occipital artery (OA) injections of 5-HT elicit pronounced reductions in heart rate and mean arterial blood pressure (MAP) in urethane-anesthetized rats by activation of vagal afferent cell bodies in the ipsilateral nodose ganglion. In contrast, internal carotid artery (ICA) and i.v. injections elicit similar cardiovascular responses by activation of peripheral vagal afferent terminals. The aim of this study was to examine the roles of 5-HT3 and 5-HT2 receptors in the 5-HT-induced activation of vagal afferent cell bodies and peripheral afferent terminals in urethane-anesthetized rats. OA, ICA and i.v. injections of 5-HT elicited dose-dependent reductions in heart rate and MAP that were virtually abolished after i.v. administration of the 5-HT3 receptor antagonists, MDL 7222 or ICS 205-930. The responses elicited by the OA injections of 5-HT were markedly diminished after i.v. injection of the 5-HT2 receptor antagonists, xylamidine or ketanserin, whereas the responses elicited by i.v. or ICA injections of 5-HT were not affected. The present findings suggest that (1) 5-HT3 and 5-HT2 receptor antagonists gain ready access to nodose ganglion cells upon i.v. administration, and (2) functional 5-HT3 and 5-HT2 receptors exist on the cell bodies of vagal afferent neurons mediating the cardiovascular responses elicited by OA injections of 5-HT. These findings also support a wealth of evidence that 5-HT3 receptors exist on the peripheral terminals of vagal afferents, and although they do not discount the possibility that 5-HT2 receptors exist on peripheral vagal afferent terminals, it appears that activation of these receptors does not have pronounced effects on 5-HT3 receptor activity on terminals that mediate the hemodynamic responses to 5-HT.
6-Hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA), a neurotoxic substrate of the dopamine transporter (DAT), is widely used in Parkinson's disease models. However, the molecular mechanisms underlying 6-OHDA's selectivity for dopamine neurons and the injurious sequelae that it triggers are not well understood. We tested whether ectopic expression of DAT induces sensitivity to 6-OHDA in non-dopaminergic rat cortical neurons and evaluated the contribution of voltage-dependent potassium channel (Kv)-dependent apoptosis to the toxicity of this compound in rat cortical and midbrain dopamine neurons. Cortical neurons expressing DAT accumulated dopamine and were highly vulnerable to 6-OHDA. Pharmacological inhibition of DAT completely blocked this toxicity. We also observed a p38-dependent Kv current surge in DAT-expressing cortical neurons exposed to 6-OHDA, and p38 antagonists and Kv channel blockers were neuroprotective in this model. Thus, DAT-mediated uptake of 6-OHDA recruited the oxidant-induced Kv channel dependent cell death pathway present in cortical neurons. Finally, we report that 6-OHDA also increased Kv currents in cultured midbrain dopamine neurons and this toxicity was blocked with Kv channel antagonists. We conclude that native DAT expression accounts for the dopamine neuron specific toxicity of 6-OHDA. Following uptake, 6-OHDA triggers the oxidant-associated Kv channel-dependent cell death pathway that is conserved in non-dopaminergic cortical neurons and midbrain dopamine neurons.
Glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF) promotes the growth and survival of enteric neurons, but the mechanisms involved are poorly understood. GDNF is known to promote the survival of enteric neurons through activation of the PI3-Kinase/Akt signaling pathway. We investigated the role of glycogen synthase kinase-3beta (GSK-3beta) in enteric neuronal survival, and the ability of GDNF to regulate the activity of GSK-3beta using primary rat embryonic enteric neurons. GDNF, through activation of the PI3-kinase pathway enhanced the phosphorylation of GSK-3beta at its N-terminal serine-9 residue, and promoted the association of GSK-3beta with 14-3-3. Transfection of a constitutively active S9A-GSK-3beta mutant prevented the survival effects of GDNF, whereas a dominant negative GSK-3beta construct prevented GDNF withdrawal-induced cell death. Increased GSK-3beta activity was associated with an increase in tau phosphorylation. Thus, GDNF promotes enteric neuronal survival by modulating GSK-3beta and its downstream target tau. Inhibitors of GSK-3beta activity may have therapeutic potential in improving enteric neuronal survival.
Glutamate excitotoxicity has been suggested to play a role in amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, since overstimulation of post-synaptic glutamate receptors by accumulated extracellular glutamate leads to motoneuron cell death. It is however unclear as to why some groups of motoneurons degenerate in this disease while other groups remain relatively intact even during terminal stages of the disease. Our previous studies in the rat showed differential expression of group I metabotropic glutamate receptors in motoneurons at low and high risk of degeneration in amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. Here we have extended this study to normal human brains. In situ hybridization showed that transcripts of both metabotropic glutamate receptor (mGluR) 1 and mGluR5 were expressed in motoneurons in both the resistant motor nucleus III and the vulnerable motor nucleus XII. Immunolabeling of mGluR1alpha and mGluR5 was found in both motoneurons and glia-like cells in all the motor nuclei and the ventral horn of the cervical spinal cord studied. Quantitative analysis of optical density measurements showed higher levels of mGluR1alpha protein expression but lower levels of mGluR5 protein expression in the vulnerable motoneuron pool (VII, XII and spinal cord) than in the resistant motoneuron pool (III, IV and VI). This differential expression of group I metabotropic glutamate receptor proteins within vulnerable motoneuron pools may predispose these neurons to degeneration as seen in amyotrophic lateral sclerosis.
The short-term plasticity of synaptic transmission has usually been related to neurotransmitter release-dependent processes. In this work, we describe a calcium- and release-independent augmentation of the fiber volley (FVA) that appears during stimulation of the Wistar rat commissural/Schaffer collateral afferents at 10-Hz. Among the possible mechanisms involved in this phenomenon, an increment in sodium channel density or the facilitation of recovery from inactivation does not seem to be responsible for this effect since the depolarization rate of the somatic action potentials (APs) of CA3 pyramidal cells decreases during the 10-Hz stimulation. On the other hand, an increase in the synchronization of the APs can be observed during the very first pulses of the 10-Hz tetanus. However, the major part of the FVA occurs with any increase in synchronization of AP firing. Finally, a strong increase in the firing probability, with kinetics similar to that observed with the FVA, appears at 10-Hz stimulation when APs are induced at threshold intensities. This hyperexcitability seems to be mediated by a residual depolarization that persists for more than 100 ms after the AP. The nature of this post-spike depolarization is uncertain since it persists in the absence of extracellular calcium and was not blocked by the application of phenytoin (100 microM), and this excludes the implication of either calcium or sodium-persistent currents. Additionally, the increase of the stimulation strength did not alter this depolarization, which suggests that the presumed extracellular potassium accumulation produced after the synchronic stimulation of APs is not involved in the depolarization. Interestingly, the slow post-depolarization induced by both supra- and subthreshold pulses is well fitted by a single exponential decay with similar time constants, an indication that the tail depolarization may represent passive discharge of the membrane following an incomplete repolarization of the AP.
Curiosity surrounding the physiological relevance of neural insulin signaling has gradually developed since the discovery that nervous tissue contains both the hormone and its receptor. Similar to other receptor tyrosine kinases, ligand interaction with the insulin receptor (IR) activates a variety of intracellular signaling pathways, particularly those relevant to cellular survival. Consequently, one explanation for the presence of the insulin pathway in the brain may involve participation in the response to neuronal injury. To investigate this possibility, the present study began by examining the effect of oxygen-glucose deprivation (OGD), a well-characterized in vitro model of ischemia, on ligand-binding, surface expression, and function of the IR in cultured rat neurons that were prepared under serum-free conditions. Reduced insulin-binding was observed following OGD, although surface expression of the receptor was not altered. However, OGD did significantly decrease the ability of insulin to stimulate phosphorylation of the transmembrane IR beta-subunit, without affecting protein expression of this subunit. Subsequent experiments focused on the manner in which pharmacologically manipulating IR function affected neuronal viability after OGD. Application of the IR sensitizer metformin moderately improved neuronal viability, while the specific IR tyrosine kinase inhibitor tyrphostin A47 was able to dramatically decrease viability; both compounds acted without affecting IR surface expression. Our study suggests that not only does the IR appear to play an important role in neuronal survival, but also that neurons may actively maintain IRs on the cell surface to compensate for the OGD-induced decrease in the ability of insulin to phosphorylate its receptor.
Protein kinases of the microtubule affinity-regulating kinase (MARK) family were originally discovered because of their ability to phosphorylate tau protein and related microtubule-associated proteins (MAPs), and their role in the establishment of cell polarity in different contexts. Recent papers have indicated that microtubule affinity-regulating kinase 4 (MARK4) is a gene that is finely regulated at transcriptional level and expressed in two spliced isoforms called MARK4L and MARK4S. We here describe the characterization of the mouse orthologue of the human MARK4 gene. Interestingly, MARK4S is predominantly expressed in the brain, whereas MARK4L shows lower transcript levels in this organ. Using MARK4 antibodies specific for each isoform, we found that both isoforms have an identical expression pattern in the mouse CNS, and are present in a number of neuronal populations. We also found that human microtubule affinity-regulating kinase 4S (hMARK4S), whose expression is not detectable in human neural progenitor cells (HNPCs) and NTera2 (NT2) cells, is up-regulated in both cell systems from the very early stages of neuronal differentiation. This indicates that neuronal commitment is marked by MARK4S up-regulation. In conclusion, this study provides the first direct evidence suggesting that MARK4 is a neuron-specific marker in the CNS, and the up-regulation of MARK4S during neuronal differentiation suggests that it plays a specialized role in neurons.
A subgroup of dorsal root ganglion (DRG) neurons responds to noxious heat with an influx of cations carried by specific ion channels such as the transient receptor potential channel of the vanilloid receptor type, subtype 1 (TRPV1). Application of capsaicin induces a reversible facilitation of these currents. This facilitation could be an interaction of two agonists at their common receptor or be caused by an influx of calcium ions into the cell. Calcium influx into the cell can activate protein kinases such as the extracellular signal-related protein kinase (ERK) pathway. This study explored the kinetics, calcium-dependency and intracellular signals following application of capsaicin and leading to facilitation of heat-induced currents (Iheat) in rat DRG neurons. Application of 0.5 microM capsaicin caused a 2.65-fold increase of Iheat within 2 s, which was significantly correlated to a small capsaicin-induced current. Intracellular application of 1,2-bis(2-aminophenoxy)ethane-N,N,N',N'-tetraacetic acid (BAPTA), a fast calcium chelator, did not change capsaicin-induced currents or Iheat itself, but inhibited facilitation of Iheat by capsaicin. ERK is activated by calcium influx and membrane depolarization via the mitogen-activated protein kinase/extracellular signal-related protein kinase kinase (MEK). Application of the MEK inhibitor U0126 also inhibited facilitation of Iheat by capsaicin. We conclude that the MEK/ERK cascade is an intracellular signaling pathway playing a vital role in the regulation of nociceptive neurons' sensitivity. The very fast kinetics (less than two seconds) are only explainable with a membrane-attached or at least membrane-near localization of these kinases.
During postnatal development, ascending and descending auditory inputs converge to form fibrodendritic layers within the central nucleus of the inferior colliculus (IC). Before the onset of hearing, specific combinations of inputs segregate into bands separated by interband spaces. These bands may define functional zones within the IC. Previous studies in our laboratory have shown that unilateral or bilateral cochlear ablation at postnatal day 2 (P2) disrupts the development of afferent bands from the dorsal nucleus of the lateral lemniscus (DNLL) to the IC. These results suggest that spontaneous activity propagated from the cochlea is required for the segregation of afferent bands within the developing IC. To test if spontaneous activity from the cochlea also may be required to maintain segregated bands of DNLL input, we performed cochlear ablations in rat pups at P9, after DNLL bands already are established. All animals were killed at P12 and glass pins coated with carbocyanine dye, DiI (1,1'-dioctodecyl-3,3,3',3'-tetramethylindocarbocyanine perchlorate), subsequently were placed in the commissure of Probst to label the crossed projections from both DNLLs. When compared with surgical controls, experimental results showed a similar pattern of DNLL bands in the IC contralateral to the ablated cochlea, but a disruption of DNLL bands in the IC ipsilateral to the cochlear ablation. The present results suggest that cochlear ablation after DNLL bands have formed may affect the maintenance of banded DNLL projections within the central nucleus of the IC.
Pituitary adenylate cyclase-activating polypeptide (PACAP) and the proopiomelanocortin (POMC)-derived peptide alpha-melanocyte-stimulating hormone (alpha-MSH) both regulate multiple neuroendocrine functions and feeding behavior. Two subtypes of PACAP receptor mRNAs, pituitary adenylate cyclase-activating polypeptide-specific receptor (PAC1-R) and pituitary adenylate cyclase-activating polypeptide/vasoactive intestinal polypeptide mutual receptor (VPAC2-R), are actively expressed in the arcuate nucleus of the hypothalamus, where POMC cell bodies are located. This observation led us to investigate the possible regulatory action of PACAP on rat POMC neurons. Double-labeling in situ hybridization histochemistry revealed that approximately 50% of POMC-producing neurons express PAC1-R and/or VPAC2-R mRNAs. The proportion of POMC neurons that also contain PAC1-R mRNA was homogeneous along the rostro-caudal axis of the arcuate nucleus while POMC-positive cell bodies expressing the VPAC2-R subtype were more abundant in the rostral region. Incubation of mediobasal hypothalamic explants with PACAP (10(-7) M; 30 min) increased POMC mRNA expression, and this effect was blocked by PACAP6-38 (10(-6) M). In contrast, incubation with vasoactive intestinal polypeptide (10(-7) M) did not affect POMC mRNA level. Incubation of hypothalamic fragments with PACAP (10(-7) M) caused a significant increase in alpha-MSH content in the tissue and in the incubation medium. Altogether, the present results reveal that exogenous PACAP, acting probably through PAC1-R, regulates the activity of POMC neurons in the rat hypothalamus. These data suggest that the effects of PACAP on the gonadotropin-releasing hormone neuroendocrine axis and the regulation of feeding behavior may be mediated, at least in part, through modulation of POMC neurons.
Inhibitory avoidance (IA) learning relies on the formation of an association between stepping down from a platform present in a certain context (conditioned stimulus; CS) with an aversive unconditioned stimulus (US; i.e. a footshock). A single CS-US pairing establishes a robust long-term memory expressed as an increase in step-down latency at testing. However, repeated retrieval of the avoidance response in the absence of the US induces extinction of IA memory. That is, recurring presentation of the CS alone results in a new learning indicating that the CS no longer predicts the US. Although the signaling pathways involved in the consolidation of IA and other fear-motivated memories have been profusely studied, little is known about the molecular requirements of fear memory extinction. Here we report that, as happens with its consolidation, extinction of IA long-term memory requires activity of the p38 subfamily of mitogen-activated protein kinases (MAPK) in the CA1 region of the dorsal hippocampus. Moreover, we found that inhibition of hippocampal p38MAPK blocked memory reacquisition after extinction without affecting either the increase in IA memory retention induced by a second training session or animal's locomotor/exploratory activity and anxiety state.
Recent studies indicate that the deposition of beta-amyloid (Abeta) is related in the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease (AD), but the underlying mechanism is still not clear. The abnormal interactions of Abeta with metal ions such as copper are implicated in the process of Abeta deposition and oxidative stress in AD brains. In the present study, we established a new AD model, using which we found that copper triggered the Abeta neurotoxicity in SH-SY5Y cells overexpressing the Swedish mutant form of human APP (APPsw) in a concentration dependent manner. Fermented papaya preparation (FPP) has shown high free radical scavenging ability in vivo and in vitro. FPP post-treatment increased cell viability and decreased the intracellular [Ca2+]i, reactive oxygen species (ROS) generation such as hydroxyl free radical and superoxide anion and nitric oxide (NO) accumulation in the cell. Our results also show that FPP prevents the cell apoptosis through bax/bcl-2 sensitive pathway.
Several studies have suggested that acid-sensing ion channel 2 (ASIC2) plays a role in mechanoperception and acid sensing in the peripheral nervous system. We examined the expression and distribution of ASIC2 in the rat dorsal root ganglion, the co-localization of ASIC2 with tropomyosin-related kinase (trk) receptors, and the effects of axotomy on ASIC2 expression. ASIC2 immunoreactivity was observed in both neurons and satellite cells. ASIC2-positive neurons accounted for 16.5 +/- 2.4% of the total neurons in normal dorsal root ganglion. Most ASIC2-positive neurons were medium-to-large neurons and were labeled with neurofilament 200 kD (NF200). Within these neurons, ASIC2 was not evenly distributed throughout the cytoplasm, but rather was accumulated prominently in the cytoplasm adjacent to the axon hillock and axonal process. We next examined the co-localization of ASIC2 with trk receptors. trkA was expressed in few ASIC2-positive neurons, and trkB and trkC were observed in 85.2% and 53.4% of ASIC2-positive neurons, respectively, while only 6.9% of ASIC2-positive neurons were co-localized with trkC alone. Peripheral axotomy markedly reduced ASIC2 expression in the axotomized dorsal root ganglion neurons. On the other hand, intense ASIC2 staining was observed in satellite cells. These results show that ASIC2 is expressed in the distinct neurochemical population of sensory neurons as well as satellite cells, and that peripheral axotomy induced marked reductions in ASIC2 in neurons.
The most well-documented synaptic rearrangement associated with temporal lobe epilepsy is mossy fiber sprouting (MFS). MFS is a pronounced expansion of granule cell mossy fiber axons into the inner dentate molecular layer. The recurrent excitatory network formed by MFS is hypothesized to play a critical role in epileptogenesis, which is the transformation of the normal brain into one that is prone to recurrent spontaneous seizures. While many studies have focused on the functional consequences of MFS, relatively few have investigated the molecular mechanisms underlying the increased propensity of mossy fibers to invade the inner molecular layer. We hypothesized that changes in two components of the extracellular matrix, hyaluronan and its primary receptor, CD44, contribute to MFS. Hyaluronan contributes to laminar-specificity in the hippocampus and increases in hyaluronan and CD44 are associated with temporal lobe epilepsy. We tested our hypothesis in an in vitro model of MFS using a combination of histological and biochemical approaches. Application of kainic acid (KA) to organotypic hippocampal slice cultures induced robust MFS into the inner dentate molecular layer compared with vehicle-treated controls. Degradation of hyaluronan with hyaluronidase significantly reduced but did not eliminate KA-induced MFS, suggesting that hyaluronan played a permissive role in MFS, but that loss of hyaluronan signaling alone was not sufficient to block mossy fiber reorganization. Comparison of CD44 expression with MFS revealed that when CD44 expression in the molecular layers was high, MFS was minimal and when CD44 expression/function was reduced following KA treatment or with function blocking antibodies, MFS was increased. The time course of KA-induced reductions in CD44 expression was identical to the temporal progression of KA-induced MFS reported previously in hippocampal slice cultures, suggesting that reduced CD44 expression may help promote MFS. Understanding the molecular mechanisms underlying MFS may lead to therapeutic interventions that limit epileptogenesis.
This study examined the nestin immunoexpression and its specific cellular localization in the developing retina of rats and investigated its putative changes in an altered environment. At postnatal day 0, nestin immunoexpression was detected in radially oriented cells considered to be neural progenitors that were glutamine synthetase (GS) negative. With age, it was localized in differentiating and differentiated GS positive Mller glial cells. Nestin expression was down-regulated as maturation proceeded, so that by 12 weeks, it was almost completely diminished as confirmed also by real time-polymerase chain reaction analysis. Nestin expression along with that of glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) was induced and upregulated in mature Mller glial cells following optic nerve transection. It is suggested that both nestin and GFAP may be useful biomarkers in retinal injuries. In view of their cytoskeletal nature, the marked expression of nestin and GFAP may provide a structural support for the framework of retina which would be disrupted as a result of loss of neurons in optic nerve lesion. It may also be neuronal protective taking into consideration the close spatial and functional links between Mller glial cells and the axotomized ganglion cells.
Cannabinoid receptor agonists have been demonstrated to inhibit medullary and spinal cord dorsal horn nociceptive neurons. The effect of cannabinoids on thermoreceptive specific neurons in the spinal or medullary dorsal horn remains unknown. In the present study, single-unit recordings from the rat medullary dorsal horn were performed to examine the effect of a cannabinoid receptor agonists on cold-specific lamina I spinothalamic tract neurons. The cannabinoid CB1/CB2 receptor agonist, WIN 55,212-2 (WIN-2), was locally applied to the medullary dorsal horn and the neuronal activity evoked by cooling the receptive field was recorded. WIN-2 (1 microg/microl and 2 microg/microl) significantly attenuated cold-evoked activity. Co-administration of the CB1 receptor antagonist SR 141716 with WIN-2 did not affect cold-evoked activity. These results demonstrate a potential mechanism by which cannabinoids produce hypothermia, and also suggest that cannabinoids may affect non-noxious thermal discrimination.
Contexts play an important role in controlling the expression of extinguished behaviors. We used an ABA renewal design to study the neural correlates, and role of D1 dopamine receptors, in contextual control over extinguished instrumental responding. Rats were trained to respond for a sucrose reward in one context (A). Responding was then extinguished in the same (A) or different (B) context. Rats were tested for responding in the original training context (A). Return to the original training context after extinction (group ABA) was associated with a return of responding. Three distinct patterns of Fos induction were detected on test: 1) ABA renewal was associated with selective increases in c-Fos protein induction in basolateral amygdala, ventral accumbens shell, and lateral hypothalamus (but not in orexin- or melanin-concentrating hormone (MCH)-hypothalamic neurons); 2) being placed in the same context as extinction training (AAA or ABB) was associated with a selective decrease in c-Fos induction in rostral agranular insular cortex; 3) being placed in any context on test was associated with the up-regulation of c-Fos induction in anterior cingulate, dorsomedial accumbens shell, accumbens core, lateral septum, and substantia nigra. The return of responding in ABA renewal was prevented by pre-treatment with the D1 dopamine receptor antagonist SCH23390 (10 microg/kg; s.c.). SCH23390 also suppressed basal and renewal-associated c-Fos protein induction throughout accumbens, and, selectively suppressed renewal-associated c-Fos induction in lateral hypothalamus. These results suggest that renewal of extinguished responding for a sucrose reward depends on a distributed neural circuit involving basolateral amygdala, ventral accumbens shell, and lateral hypothalamus. D1 dopamine receptors within this circuit are essential for renewal. The results also suggest that rostral agranular insular cortex may play an important role in suppressing reward-seeking after extinction training.
Substance P (SP) and calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP), released from capsaicin-sensitive sensory nerves induce local neurogenic inflammation, while somatostatin exerts systemic anti-inflammatory actions. The aim of the present study was to investigate the release of pituitary adenylate cyclase activating polypeptide-38 (PACAP-38) and its effects on sensory neuropeptide release in vitro and acute neurogenic ear swelling in vivo. Capsaicin (10(-6) M) or electrical field stimulation (EFS; 40 V, 0.1 ms, 10 Hz, 120 s; 1200 impulses)-induced release of PACAP-38, SP, CGRP and somatostatin from isolated rat tracheae was measured with radioimmunoassay. Mustard oil-induced neurogenic inflammation in the mouse ear was determined with a micrometer and in the rat hind paw skin by the Evans Blue leakage technique. Capsaicin and EFS evoked 27% and more than twofold elevation of PACAP-38 release respectively, compared with the prestimulated basal values from isolated trachea preparation. Exogenously administered PACAP-38 (20-2000 nM) diminished both capsaicin- and EFS-evoked sensory neuropeptide release in a concentration-dependent manner. The maximal inhibitory effects of PACAP on capsaicin-induced substance P, CGRP and somatostatin release amounted to 75.4%, 73.3% and 90.0%, while EFS-evoked release of these peptides was 80.03%, 87.7% and 67.7%. In case of capsaicin stimulation the EC50 values for substance P, CGRP and somatostatin were 82.9 nM, 60.1 nM and 66.9 nM, respectively. When EFS was performed, these corresponding EC50 data were 92.1 nM, 67.8 nM and 20.9 nM. PACAP-38 (10, 100 and 1000 microg/kg i.p. in 200 microl volume) inhibited neurogenic ear swelling in the mouse. Furthermore, 100 microg/kg i.p. PACAP also significantly diminished mustard oil-evoked plasma protein extravasation in the rat skin. These results suggest that PACAP-38 is released from the stimulated peripheral terminals of capsaicin-sensitive afferents and it is able to inhibit the outflow of sensory neuropeptides. Based on this mechanism of action PACAP is also able to effectively diminish/abolish neurogenic inflammatory response in vivo after systemic administration.
The medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC) modulates neurovegetative and behavioral responses, being involved in memory, attention, motivational and executive processes. There is evidence indicating that mPFC modulates cardiovascular correlates of behavioral responses to stressful stimuli. Acute restraint is an unavoidable stress situation that evokes marked and sustained cardiovascular changes, characterized by elevated blood pressure (BP) and intense heart rate (HR) increase. We presently report effects of mPFC pharmacological manipulations on BP and HR responses evoked by acute restraint in rats. Bilateral microinjection of 200 nl of the unspecific synaptic blocker CoCl2 (1 mM) in the mPFC prelimbic area (PL) increased HR response to acute restraint, without significant effect on the BP response. This result indicates that PL synaptic mechanisms have an inhibitory influence on restraint-evoked HR changes. Injections of the non-selective glutamatergic receptor antagonist kynurenic acid (0.02 M) or the selective N-methyl-d-aspartic acid (NMDA) receptor glutamatergic antagonist (LY235959) (0.02 M) caused effects similar to cobalt, suggesting that local glutamatergic neurotransmission and NMDA receptors mediate the PL inhibitory influence on restraint-related HR responses. Pretreatment with the non-non-N-methyl-D-aspartic acid glutamatergic antagonist glutamatergic antagonist glutamatergic receptor antagonist NBQX (0.02 M) did not affect restraint-related cardiovascular responses, reinforcing the idea that NMDA receptors mediate PL-related inhibitory influence. Pretreatment with the glutamatergic-receptor antagonists did not affect baseline BP or HR values. I.v. pretreatment with the quaternary ammonium anticholinergic drug homatropine methyl bromide (0.2 mg/kg) also increased the restraint-related HR response to values similar to those observed after treatment with kynurenic acid or LY235959, thus, suggesting that PL inhibitory influence on restraint-evoked heart rate increase could be related to increased parasympathetic activity. This dose of homatropine had no significant effects on baseline BP or HR values. Results suggest a PL inhibitory influence on restraint-evoked HR increase. They also indicate that local NMDA receptors involved in parasympathetic activation mediate PL inhibitory influence on restraint-evoked HR increase.
The neurosteroid allopregnanolone (ALLO) or 3alpha-OH-5alpha-pregnane-20-one interacts with the GABA type A receptor chloride ion channel complex and enhances the effect of GABA. Animal and human studies suggest that ALLO plays an important role in several disorders including premenstrual syndrome, anxiety, and memory impairment. In contrast to ALLO, steroids with a hydroxy group in the 3beta position usually exert a reducing effect and have recently attracted interest due to their suggested role in counteracting the negative action of ALLO. In this study, five different 3beta-steroids were tested for their ability to modulate GABA-mediated chloride ion uptake in the absence and presence of ALLO in rat brain microsacs preparations. In addition, the effects of the 3beta-steroids and their interaction with ALLO were investigated by patch-clamp recordings of spontaneous inhibitory postsynaptic currents (sIPSCs) in rat hypothalamic neurons from the medial preoptic nucleus (MPN). All tested 3beta-steroids reduced the ALLO-enhanced GABA response in cerebral cortex, in hippocampus and in MPN. In cerebellum, only one had this effect. However, in the absence of ALLO, two of the 3beta-steroids potentiated GABA-evoked chloride ion uptake and prolonged the sIPSCs decay time, whereas the others had little or no effect. Therefore, it is possible that at least some 3beta-steroids can act as positive GABA(A) receptor modulators as well as negative modulators depending on whether or not ALLO is present. Finally, these results suggest that the 3beta-steroids could be of interest as pharmacological agents that could counteract the negative effects of ALLO.
Previous reports have identified greater sensitivity to the locomotor-stimulating, sensitizing, and reinforcing effects of amphetamine in inbred C57BL/6J mice relative to inbred DBA/2J mice. The dopamine D3 receptor (D3R) plays an inhibitory role in the regulation of rodent locomotor activity, and exerts inhibitory opposition to D1 receptor (D1R)-mediated signaling. Based on these observations, we investigated D3R expression and D3R-mediated locomotor-inhibitory function, as well as D1R binding and D1R-mediated locomotor-stimulating function, in C57BL/6J and DBA/2J mice. C57BL/6J mice exhibited lower D3R binding density (-32%) in the ventral striatum (nucleus accumbens/islands of Calleja), lower D3R mRNA expression (-26%) in the substantia nigra/ventral tegmentum, and greater D3R mRNA expression (+40%) in the hippocampus, relative to DBA/2J mice. There were no strain differences in DR3 mRNA expression in the ventral striatum or prefrontal cortex, nor were there differences in D1R binding in the ventral striatum. Behaviorally, C57BL/6J mice were less sensitive to the locomotor-inhibitory effect of the D3R agonist PD128907 (10 microg/kg), and more sensitive to the locomotor-stimulating effects of novelty, amphetamine (1 mg/kg), and the D1R-like agonist +/- -1-phenyl-2,3,4,5-tetrahydro-(1H)-3-benzazepine-7,8,-diol hydrochloride (SKF38393) (5-20 mg/kg) than DBA/2J mice. While the selective D3R antagonist N-(4-[4-{2,3-dichlorphenyl}-1 piperazinyl]butyl)-2-fluorenylcarboxamide (NGB 2904) (0.01-1.0 mg/kg) augmented novelty-, amphetamine-, and SKF38393-induced locomotor activity in DBA/2J mice, it reduced novelty-induced locomotor activity in C57BL/6J mice. Collectively, these results demonstrate that C57BL/6J mice exhibit less D3R-mediated inhibitory function relative to DBA/2J mice, and suggest that reduced D3R-mediated inhibitory function may contribute to heightened sensitivity to the locomotor-stimulating effects of amphetamine in the C57BL/6J mouse strain. Furthermore, these data demonstrate that comparisons between C57BL/6J and DBA/2J mouse strains provide a model for elucidating the molecular determinants of genetic influence on D3R function.
Hemiballism (HB) is a quite rare disorder, generally secondary to stroke, neoplasms or demyelinating plaques, classically considered as almost pathognomonic of a lesion in the subthalamic nucleus (STN). This alteration causes involuntary movements in the chorea-ballism spectrum. One theory is that the output nuclei of the basal ganglia are overinhibited in HB, while little is known about the physiological state of the striatum, the major input structure of the basal ganglia. In the present study, we recorded spontaneous and miniature excitatory and inhibitory postsynaptic currents (sEPSCs, mEPSCs, sIPSCs, mIPSCs) from projection neurons of the striatum of experimental HB. We found a selective reduction of striatal sEPSC and mEPSC frequency following chemical lesion of the STN of the rat, suggesting that reduced synaptic excitation of the input structure of the basal ganglia represents a physiological correlate of HB.
Different subtypes of voltage-dependent calcium channels (VDCCs) generate various types of calcium currents that play important role in neurotransmitter release, membrane excitability, calcium transients and gene expression. Well-established differences in the physiological properties and variable sensitivity of hippocampal GABAergic inhibitory neurons to excitotoxic insults suggest that the calcium homeostasis, thus VDCC subunits expression pattern is likely different in subclasses of inhibitory cells. Using double-immunohistochemistry, here we report that in mice: 1) Cav2.1 and Cav3.1 subunits are expressed in almost all inhibitory neurons; 2) subunits responsible for the L-type calcium current (Cav1.2 and Cav1.3) are infrequently co-localized with calretinin inhibitory cell marker while Cav1.3 subunit, at least in part, tends to compensate for the low expression of Cav1.2 subunit in parvalbumin-, metabotropic glutamate receptor 1alpha- and somatostatin-immunopositive inhibitory neurons; 3) Cav2.2 subunit is expressed in the majority of inhibitory neurons except in calbindin-reactive inhibitory cells; 4) Cav2.3 subunit is expressed in the vast majority of the inhibitory cells except in parvalbumin- and calretinin-immunoreactive neurons where the proportion of expression of this subunit is considerably lower. These data indicate that VDCC subunits are differentially expressed in hippocampal GABAergic interneurons, which could explain the diversity in their electrophysiological properties, the existence of synaptic plasticity in certain inhibitory neurons and their vulnerability to stressful stimuli.
Models of the saccadic system differ in several respects including the signals fed back to their comparators, as well as the location and identity of the units that could serve as comparators. Some models place the comparator in the superior colliculus while others assign this role to the reticular formation. To test the plausibility of reticular models we stimulated electrically efferent fibers of the superior colliculus (SC) of alert cats along their course through the pons, in the predorsal bundle (PDB). Our data demonstrate that electrical stimulation of the PDB evokes saccades, even with stimuli of relatively low frequency (100 Hz), which are often accompanied by slow drifts. The velocity and latency of saccades are influenced by the intensity and frequency of stimulation while their amplitude depends on the intensity of stimulation and the initial position of the eyes. The dynamics of evoked saccades are comparable to those of natural, self-generated saccades of the cat and to those evoked in response to the electrical stimulation of the SC. We also show that PDB-evoked saccades are not abolished by lesions of the SC and that therefore antidromic activation of the SC is not needed for their generation. Our data clearly demonstrate that the burst generator of the horizontal saccadic system is located downstream of the SC. If it is configured as a local loop controller, as assumed by most models of the saccadic system, our data also demonstrate that its comparator is located beyond the decussation of SC efferent fibers, in the pons.
Structure-activity relationships were investigated on the tricyclic dihydropyridine (DHP) KATP openers 9-(3-bromo-4-fluorophenyl)-5,9-dihydro-3H,4H-2,6-dioxa-4-azacyclopenta[b]naphthalene-1,8-dione (6) and 10-(3-bromo-4-fluorophenyl)-9,10-dihydro-1H,8H-2,7-dioxa-9-azaanthracene-4,5-dione (65). Substitution off the core of the DHP, absolute stereochemistry, and aromatic substitution were evaluated for KATP channel activity using Ltk- cells stably transfected with the Kir6.2/SUR2B exon 17- splice variant and in an electrically stimulated pig bladder strip assay. A select group of compounds was evaluated for in vitro inhibition of spontaneous bladder contractions. Several compounds were found to have the unique characteristic of partial efficacy in both the cell-based and electrically stimulated bladder strip assays but full efficacy in inhibiting spontaneous bladder strip contractions. For compound 23b, this profile was mirrored in vivo where it was fully efficacious in inhibiting spontaneous myogenic bladder contractions but only partially able to reduce neurogenically mediated reflex bladder contractions.
Adenosine kinase (AK) is an enzyme responsible for converting endogenous adenosine (ADO) to adenosine monophosphate (AMP) in an adenosine triphosphate- (ATP-) dependent manner. The structure of AK consists of two domains, the first a large alpha/beta Rossmann-like nucleotide binding domain that forms the ATP binding site, and a smaller mixed alpha/beta domain, which, in combination with the larger domain, forms the ADO binding site and the site of phosphoryl transfer. AK inhibitors have been under investigation as antinociceptive, antiinflammatory, and anticonvulsant as well as antiinfective agents. In this work, we report the structures of AK in complex with two classes of inhibitors: the first, ADO-like, and the second, a novel alkynylpyrimidine series. The two classes of structures, which contain structurally similar substituents, reveal distinct binding modes in which the AK structure accommodates the inhibitor classes by a 30 degrees rotation of the small domain relative to the large domain. This change in binding mode stabilizes an open and a closed intermediate structural state and provide structural insight into the transition required for catalysis. This results in a significant rearrangement of both the protein active site and the orientation of the alkynylpyrimidine ligand when compared to the observed orientation of nucleosidic inhibitors or substrates.
The emerging picture of taste coding at the periphery is one of elegant simplicity. Contrary to what was generally believed, it is now clear that distinct cell types expressing unique receptors are tuned to detect each of the five basic tastes: sweet, sour, bitter, salty and umami. Importantly, receptor cells for each taste quality function as dedicated sensors wired to elicit stereotypic responses.
Each of our movements activates our own sensory receptors, and therefore keeping track of self-movement is a necessary part of analysing sensory input. One way in which the brain keeps track of self-movement is by monitoring an internal copy, or corollary discharge, of motor commands. This concept could explain why we perceive a stable visual world despite our frequent quick, or saccadic, eye movements: corollary discharge about each saccade would permit the visual system to ignore saccade-induced visual changes. The critical missing link has been the connection between corollary discharge and visual processing. Here we show that such a link is formed by a corollary discharge from the thalamus that targets the frontal cortex. In the thalamus, neurons in the mediodorsal nucleus relay a corollary discharge of saccades from the midbrain superior colliculus to the cortical frontal eye field. In the frontal eye field, neurons use corollary discharge to shift their visual receptive fields spatially before saccades. We tested the hypothesis that these two components-a pathway for corollary discharge and neurons with shifting receptive fields-form a circuit in which the corollary discharge drives the shift. First we showed that the known spatial and temporal properties of the corollary discharge predict the dynamic changes in spatial visual processing of cortical neurons when saccades are made. Then we moved from this correlation to causation by isolating single cortical neurons and showing that their spatial visual processing is impaired when corollary discharge from the thalamus is interrupted. Thus the visual processing of frontal neurons is spatiotemporally matched with, and functionally dependent on, corollary discharge input from the thalamus. These experiments establish the first link between corollary discharge and visual processing, delineate a brain circuit that is well suited for mediating visual stability, and provide a framework for studying corollary discharge in other sensory systems.

Dhyana-Yoga is a Sanskrit word for the ancient discipline of meditation, as a means to Samadhi or enlightenment. Samadhi is a self-absorptive, adaptive state with realization of one's being in harmony with reality. It is unitive, undifferentiated, reality-consciousness, an essential being, which can only be experienced by spontaneous intuition and self-understanding. Modern neuroscience can help us to better understand Dhyana-Yoga. This article discusses topics including brain-mind-reality, consciousness, attention, emotional intelligence, sense of self, meditative mind, and meditative brain. A new hypothesis is proposed for a better understanding of the meditative mind. Meditation is an art of being serene and alert in the present moment, instead of constantly struggling to change or to become. It is an art of efficient management of attentional energy with total engagement (poornata, presence, mindfulness) or disengagement (shunyata, silence, emptiness). In both states, there is an experience of spontaneous unity with no sense of situational interactive self or personal time. It is a simultaneous, participatory consciousness rather than a dualistic, sequential attentiveness. There is a natural sense of well being with self-understanding, spontaneous joy, serenity, freedom, and self-fulfillment. It is where the ultimate pursuit of happiness and the search for meaning of life resolve. One realizes the truth of one's harmonious being in nature and nature in oneself. It is being alive at its fullest, when each conscious moment becomes a dynamic process of discovery and continuous learning of the ever-new unfolding reality.
Benzodiazepines are known as &quot;acquisition-impairing&quot; molecules, and their effects on anterograde memory processes are well described. In contrast, the impact of benzodiazepines on retrograde memory and, more particularly, on retrieval processes, is only marginally studied. This mini-review provides an overlook of the main studies evidencing an effect of benzodiazepines on retrograde memory, both in humans and animals, with special emphasis on retrieval processes. The conditions for the emergence of the benzodiazepine-induced retrieval impairments are also discussed.


A new class of potent NK3R antagonists based on the N',2-diphenylquinoline-4-carbohydrazide core is described. In an ex vivo assay in gerbil, the lead compound 2g occupies receptors within the CNS following oral dosing (Occ(90) 30 mg/kg po; plasma Occ(90) 0.95 microM) and has good selectivity and promising PK properties.
Introduction of selected amine containing side chains into the 3-position of N',2-diphenylquinoline-4-carbohydrazide based NK3 antagonists abolishes unwanted hPXR activation. Introduction of a fluorine at the 8-position is necessary to minimize unwanted hI(Kr) affinity and a piperazine N-tert-butyl group is necessary for metabolic stability. The lead compound (8m) occupies receptors within the CNS following oral dosing (Occ(90) 7 mg/kg po; plasma Occ(90) 0.4 microM) and has good selectivity and excellent PK properties.

Signals from target tissues play critical roles in the functional differentiation of neuronal cells, and in their subsequent adaptations to peripheral changes in the adult. Sensory neurons in the dorsal root ganglia (DRG) provide an excellent model system for the study of signals that regulate the development of neuronal diversity. DRG have been well characterized and contain both neurons that convey information from muscles about limb position, as well as other neurons that provide sensations from skin about pain information. Sensory neurons involved in pain sensation can be distinguished physiologically and antigenically, and one hallmark characteristic is that these neurons contain neuropeptides important for their functions. The transforming growth factor (TGF) beta family member activin A has recently been implicated in neural development and response to injury. During sensory neuron development, peripheral target tissues containing activin or activin itself can regulate pain neuropeptide expression. Long after development has ceased, skin target tissues retain the capacity to signal neurons about changes or injury, to functionally refine synapses. This review focuses on the role of activin as a target-derived differentiative factor in neural development that has additional roles in response to cutaneous injuries in the adult.

&quot;Hemichannels&quot; are defined as the halves of gap junction channels (also termed connexons) that are contributed by one cell; &quot;hemichannels&quot; are considered to be functional if they are open in nonjunctional membranes in the absence of pairing with partners from adjacent cells. Several recent reviews have summarized the blossoming literature regarding functional &quot;hemichannels&quot;, in some cases encyclopedically. However, most of these previous reviews have been written with the assumption that all data reporting &quot;hemichannel&quot; involvement really have studied phenomena in which connexons actually form the permeability or conductance pathway. In this review, we have taken a slightly different approach. We review the concept of &quot;hemichannels&quot;, summarize properties that might be expected of half gap junctions and evaluate the extent to which the properties of presumptive &quot;hemichannels&quot; match expectations. Then we consider functions attributed to hemichannels, provide an overview of other channel types that might fulfill similar roles and provide sets of criteria that might be applied to verify involvement of connexin hemichannels in cell and tissue function. One firm conclusion is reached. The study of hemichannels is technically challenging and fraught with opportunities for misinterpretation, so that future studies must apply rigorous standards for detection of hemichannel expression and function. At the same time there are reasons to expect surprises, including the possibility that some time honored techniques for studying gap junctions may prove unsuitable for detecting hemichannels. We advise hemichannel researchers to proceed with caution and an open mind.
Among seven members of P2X ionotropic receptors activated by extracellular ATP, the P2X(7) subtype is unique in that it can function as a cation channel, a nonselective pore, or even a signaling complex coupled with multiple downstream components. Several roles of P2X(7) receptors have been described in CNS cells in the past decade, including release of cytokines and transmitters, modulation of presynaptic transmitter release, and activation of multiple signaling pathways. The finding that P2X(7) pores may directly mediate efflux of cytosolic glutamate, GABA, and ATP in glial cells is particularly interesting, as it provides a novel mechanism of glial transmitter release that may play important roles not only in physiological intercellular communication but also in pathological neural injury.
Several lines of evidence indicate that the elaborated calcium signals and the occurrence of calcium waves in astrocytes provide these cells with a specific form of excitability. The identification of the cellular and molecular steps involved in the triggering and transmission of Ca(2+) waves between astrocytes resulted in the identification of two pathways mediating this form of intercellular communication. One of them involves the direct communication between the cytosols of two adjoining cells through gap junction channels, while the other depends upon the release of &quot;gliotransmitters&quot; that activates membrane receptors on neighboring cells. In this review we summarize evidence in favor of these two mechanisms of Ca(2+) wave transmission and we discuss that they may not be mutually exclusive, but are likely to work in conjunction to coordinate the activity of a group of cells. To address a key question regarding the functional consequences following the passage of a Ca(2+) wave, we list, in this review, some of the potential intracellular targets of these Ca(2+) transients in astrocytes, and discuss the functional consequences of the activation of these targets for the interactions that astrocytes maintain with themselves and with other cellular partners, including those at the glial/vasculature interface and at perisynaptic sites where astrocytic processes tightly interact with neurons.
Astrocytes can release a variety of transmitters, including glutamate and ATP, in response to stimuli that induce increases in intracellular Ca(2+) levels. This release occurs via a regulated, exocytotic pathway. As evidence of this, astrocytes express protein components of the vesicular secretory apparatus, including synaptobrevin 2, syntaxin, and SNAP-23. Additionally, astrocytes possess vesicular organelles, the essential morphological elements required for regulated Ca(2+)-dependent transmitter release. The location of specific exocytotic sites on these cells, however, remains to be unequivocally determined.
In this review we summarize mechanisms of Ca(2+) signaling in microglial cells and the impact of Ca(2+) signaling and Ca(2+) levels on microglial function. So far, Ca(2+) signaling has been only characterized in cultured microglia and thus these data refer rather to activated microglia as observed in pathology when compared with the resting form found under physiological conditions. Purinergic receptors are the most prominently expressed ligand-gated Ca(2+)-permeable channels in microglia and control several microglial functions such as cytokine release in a Ca(2+)-dependent fashion. A large variety of metabotropic receptors are linked to Ca(2+) release from intracellular stores. Depletion of these intracellular stores triggers a capacitative Ca(2+) entry. While microglia are already in an activated state in culture, they can be further activated, for example, by exposure to bacterial endotoxin. This activation leads to a chronic increase of [Ca(2+)](i) and this Ca(2+) increase is a prerequisite for the release of nitric oxide and cytokines. Moreover, several factors (TNFalpha, IL-1beta, and IFN-gamma) regulate resting [Ca(2+)](i) levels.
This article reviews calcium signaling in three specialized types of glial cells: Mller cells of the retina, Bergmann glial cells of the cerebellum, and radial glial cells of the developing cortex. Mller cells generate spontaneous and neuronal activity-evoked increases in Ca(2+). Neuron to Mller cell signaling is mediated by neuronal release of ATP and activation of glial P2Y receptors. Mller cells, in turn, modulate neuronal excitability and mediate vasomotor responses. Bergmann glial cells also generate spontaneous and activity-evoked Ca(2+) increases. Neuron to Bergmann glia signaling is mediated by neuronal release of nitric oxide, noradrenaline, and glutamate. In Bergmann glia, Ca(2+) increases control the structural and functional interactions between these cells and Purkinje cell synapses. In the ventricular zone of the developing cortex, radial glial cells generate spontaneous Ca(2+) increases that propagate as Ca(2+) waves through clusters of neighboring glial cells. These Ca(2+) increases control cell proliferation and neurogenesis.
Intracranial aneurysm is probably a complex disease with both genetic and non-genetic or environmental risk factors contributing to the etiology of the disease. A disruption of the extracellular matrix (ECM) of the arterial wall is a likely factor in the pathogenesis of intracranial aneurysms. We analyzed 44 potential candidate genes involved in the maintenance of the integrity of the ECM in 382 Dutch Caucasian patients with intracranial aneurysms and 609 Dutch Caucasian controls for 384 tag single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) using the GoldenGate assay on an Illumina BeadStation 500 GX. We identified SNPs that were associated with intracranial aneurysms (P&lt;0.01) in six of these 44 genes: serpine1 (SERPINE1, P=0.0008), transforming growth factor beta induced (TGFBI, P=0.0026), perlecan (HSPG2, P=0.0044), fibronectin (FN1, P=0.0069), fibrillin 2 (FBN2, P=0.0077) and alpha 1 type IV collagen (COL4A1, P=0.0087). In a second independent cohort of 310 Dutch Caucasian intracranial aneurysm patients and 336 Dutch Caucasian controls, the association for the HSPG2 gene [combined odds ratio (OR) 1.33, 95% confidence interval (CI) 1.13-1.57, P=6 x 10(-4)] was replicated. The population attributable risk (PAR) for this SNP is 19%. Combining the two cohorts still showed association for the SERPINE1 (combined OR 1.27, 95% CI 1.07-1.50, P=0.004, PAR 6%), FBN2 (combined OR 1.37, 95% CI 1.07-1.75, P=0.01, PAR 3%) and COL4A1 (combined OR 1.22, 95% CI 1.05-1.42, P=0.007, PAR 7%) genes. These PARs are likely to be overestimates as they are calculated from the joint analyses combining stages 1 and 2 of our association study. Our findings indicate that variation in genes involved in the maintenance of the integrity of the ECM of the arterial wall plays a role in susceptibility to intracranial aneurysms. These findings further support our hypothesis that diminished maintenance of the ECM of the arterial wall is important in the development of intracranial aneurysms.
Rare sequence variants may be important in understanding the biology of common diseases, but clearly establishing their association with disease is often difficult. Association studies of such variants are becoming increasingly common as large-scale sequence analysis of candidate genes has become feasible. A recent report suggested SLITRK1 (Slit and Trk-like 1) as a candidate gene for Tourette Syndrome (TS). The statistical evidence for this suggestion came from association analyses of a rare 3'-UTR variant, var321, which was observed in two patients but not observed in more than 2000 controls. We genotyped 307 Costa Rican and 515 Ashkenazi individuals (TS probands and their parents) and observed var321 in five independent Ashkenazi parents, two of whom did not transmit this variant to their affected child. Furthermore, we identified var321 in one subject from an Ashkenazi control sample. Our findings do not support the previously reported association and suggest that var321 is overrepresented among Ashkenazi Jews compared with other populations of European origin. The results further suggest that overrepresentation of rare variants in a specific ethnic group may complicate the interpretation of association analyses of such variants, highlighting the particular importance of precisely matching case and control populations for association analyses of rare variants.
Several single-span membrane proteins are cleaved within their transmembrane domains (TMDs) by intramembrane-cleaving proteases, although the structure of the active site executing intramembrane cleavage remains unknown. Here we use the substituted cysteine accessibility method to examine the structure of presenilin-1, a catalytic subunit of gamma-secretase, involved in amyloid beta protein generation in Alzheimer's disease and Notch signaling. We show that TMD6 and TMD7 of presenilin-1 contribute to the formation of a hydrophilic pore within the membrane. Residues at the luminal portion of TMD6 are predicted to form a subsite for substrate or inhibitor binding on the alpha-helix facing a hydrophilic milieu, whereas those around the GxGD catalytic motif within TMD7 are highly water accessible, suggesting formation of a hydrophilic structure within the pore. Collectively, our data suggest that the active site of gamma-secretase resides in a catalytic pore filled with water within the lipid bilayer and is tapered around the catalytic aspartates.
Classically, mossy fiber and climbing fiber terminals are regarded as having very different spatial distributions in the cerebellar cortex. However, previous anatomical studies have not studied these two major cerebellar inputs with sufficient resolution to confirm this assumption. Here, we examine the detailed pattern of collateralization of both types of cerebellar afferent using small injections of the bidirectional tracer cholera toxin b subunit into the posterior cerebellum. The cortical and zonal location of these injections was characterized by mapping climbing fiber field potentials, the distribution of retrogradely labeled olivary neurons, and the intrinsic zebrin pattern of Purkinje cells. Labeled climbing fiber collaterals were distributed as longitudinal strips and were always accompanied by clusters of labeled mossy fiber rosettes in the subjacent granular layer. Two- and three-dimensional reconstructions and quantitative analysis showed that mossy fibers also collateralized to other stripe-like regions usually below Purkinje cells with the same zebrin-positive or zebrin-negative characteristics as that of the injection site and associated climbing fiber collaterals. The distribution of retrogradely labeled neurons in two major sources of mossy fibers, the lateral reticular and basilar pontine nuclei, revealed interlobular and some interzonal differences. These data indicate that nonadjacent cerebellar zones, sharing the same climbing fiber input and zebrin identity, also share a common mossy fiber input. Other cerebellar cortical regions that receive collaterals from the same mossy fibers usually also have the same zebrin signature. Together with the distribution of neurons in precerebellar centers, the findings suggest a revision of the modular hypothesis for information processing in the cerebellar cortex.
Despite the increasing research on placebos in recent times, little is known about the nocebo effect, a phenomenon that is opposite to the placebo effect and whereby expectations of symptom worsening play a crucial role. By studying experimental ischemic arm pain in healthy volunteers and by using a neuropharmacological approach, we found that verbally induced nocebo hyperalgesia was associated to hyperactivity of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis, as assessed by means of adrenocorticotropic hormone and cortisol plasma concentrations. Both nocebo hyperalgesia and HPA hyperactivity were antagonized by the benzodiazepine diazepam, suggesting that anxiety played a major role in these effects. The administration of the mixed cholecystokinin (CCK) type-A/B receptor antagonist proglumide blocked nocebo hyperalgesia completely but had no effect on HPA hyperactivity, which suggests a specific involvement of CCK in the hyperalgesic but not in the anxiety component of the nocebo effect. Importantly, both diazepam and proglumide did not show analgesic properties on basal pain, because they acted only on the nocebo-induced pain increase. These data indicate a close relationship between anxiety and nocebo hyperalgesia, in which the CCKergic systems play a key role in anxiety-induced hyperalgesia. These results, together with previous findings showing that placebo analgesia is mediated by endogenous opioids, suggest that the analgesic placebo/hyperalgesic nocebo phenomenon may involve the opposite activation of endogenous opioidergic and CCKergic systems.
The p75 neurotrophin receptor (p75NTR) has been implicated in diverse neuronal responses, including survival, cell death, myelination, and inhibition of regeneration. However, the role of p75NTR in neuropathic pain, for which there is currently no effective therapy, has not been explored. Here, we report that the pharmacological blockade of p75NTR in primary sensory neurons reversed neuropathic pain after nerve injury. Nerve injury increased the expression and axonal transport of p75NTR and phosphorylation of TrkA in the uninjured primary afferents. Functional inhibition of p75NTR suppressed injury-induced neuropathic pain and decreased the phosphorylation of TrkA and p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase, and the induction of transient receptor potential channels in dorsal root ganglion (DRG) neurons. Our results show that p75NTR induced in undamaged DRG neurons facilitates TrkA signaling and contributes to heat and cold hyperalgesia.
The piriform (or primary olfactory) cortex is a trilaminar structure that is the first cortical destination of olfactory information, receiving monosynaptic input from the olfactory bulb. Here, we show that the main input layer of the piriform cortex, layer II, is dominated by two classes of principal neurons, superficial pyramidal (SP) and semilunar (SL) cells, with strikingly different properties. Action potentials in SP cells are followed by a Ni2+-sensitive afterdepolarization that promotes burst firing, whereas SL cells fire nonbursting action potentials that are followed by a powerful afterhyperpolarization. Synaptic inputs from the olfactory bulb onto SP cells exhibit prominent paired-pulse facilitation, which is attributable to residual presynaptic Ca2+ and a low probability of neurotransmitter release. In contrast, the same inputs onto SL cells do not facilitate. These distinctive synaptic and firing properties cause SP and SL cells to respond differently to in vivo-like bursts of afferent stimulation: SP cells tend to fire bursts of output action potentials at a higher frequency than the input, whereas SL cells tend to fire at a lower frequency than the input. When connected together in the canonical circuit of the piriform cortex, SP and SL cells transform the pattern of synaptic inputs they receive from the olfactory bulb, dispersing the firing rate and latency of output action potentials to an extent that depends on the strength of the input. Thus, the presence of two types of principal cells in layer II of the piriform cortex may underlie coding strategies used for the representation of odors.
Accumulation of amyloid beta protein (Abeta) aggregates is hypothesized to trigger a pathological cascade that causes Alzheimer's disease (AD). Active or passive immunizations targeting Abeta are therefore of great interest as potential therapeutic strategies. We have evaluated the use of recombinant anti-Abeta single-chain variable fragments (scFvs) as a potentially safer form of anti-Abeta immunotherapy. We have generated and characterized three anti-Abeta scFvs that recognize Abeta 1-16, Abeta x-40, or Abeta x-42. To achieve widespread brain delivery, constructs expressing these anti-Abeta scFvs were packaged into adeno-associated virus (AAV) vectors and injected into the ventricles of postnatal day 0 (P0) amyloid precursor protein CRND8-transgenic mice. Intracranial delivery of AAV to neonatal mice resulted in widespread neuronal delivery. In situ expression of each of the anti-Abeta scFvs after intracerebroventricular AAV serotype 1 delivery to P0 pups decreased Abeta deposition by 25-50%. These data suggest that intracranial anti-Abeta scFv expression is an effective strategy to attenuate amyloid deposition. As opposed to transgenic approaches, these studies also establish a &quot;somatic brain transgenic&quot; paradigm to rapidly and cost-effectively evaluate potential modifiers of AD-like pathology in AD mouse models.
Long-term depression (LTD) at the corticostriatal synapse is postsynaptically induced but presynaptically expressed, the depression being a result of retrograde endocannabinoid signaling that activates presynaptic cannabinoid CB1 receptors and reduces the probability of glutamate release. To study the role of protein synthesis in striatal LTD, we used a striatum-only preparation in which the presynaptic cell body is cut off, leaving intact only its axons, whose terminals synapse on medium spiny neurons. LTD (duration &gt;150 min) was induced in this preparation, thus providing evidence that transcription in the presynaptic cell nucleus is not necessary for this form of plasticity. The maintenance of striatal LTD, however, was blocked by bath application of protein translation inhibitors but not by the same inhibitors loaded into the postsynaptic cell. These results suggest that local translation is critical for the expression of striatal LTD, distinguishing this form of mammalian synaptic plasticity from other forms that require postsynaptic protein synthesis. Possible roles of axonal or glial translation in striatal LTD are considered.
In this study, p75NTREXONIII knockout mice were used as immune-naive hosts to produce functional antibodies to human p75NTR. Three monoclonal antibodies were produced and named MLR1, MLR2 and MLR3, and isotyped as IgG1, IgG2a and IgG2a, respectively. MLR1 and MLR2 bound to human p75NTR with higher affinity than the well-characterized ME20.4 in ELISA and also recognized p75NTR present on neurons in both rat and mouse. MLR1 and MLR2 bound to nerves known to express p75NTR following injection into Balb/C mice but not p75NTREXONIII knockout mice, indicating the antibodies are directed against the ligand binding extracellular region absent in knockout mice. Both MLR1 and MLR2 partially blocked NGF induced cell death in a mouse cell-line that expresses p75NTR but not TrKA. Importantly, intracerebroventricular injections indicated MLR2 was internalized within the cell bodies of mouse basal forebrain neurons, further demonstrating that this antibody is biologically active.
It is sometimes useful in electrophysiological recordings to try various micropipette profiles in order to determine which tip works best in a given experiment. A pipette puller can be used to pull very sharp or blunt pipettes, and to fire polish tips for whole cell patch recordings. Broken tip pipettes can be &quot;bumped&quot; to an acceptable tip diameter under a microscope. However, it may be difficult to rationalize the purchase of a commercial beveling machine simply to test whether beveled pipettes are best for recording intracellularly from the cell types of interest. Presented here are methods that use a surplus computer hard drive to reproducibly dry bevel glass micropipettes. Compared to sharp or broken tip electrodes, pipettes dry beveled with this simple system are superior for making intracellular recordings from cichlid Mauthner neurons. Preliminary data obtained with this inexpensive apparatus may allow investigators to successfully justify the purchase of a commercial beveler.
In this study, we describe a new rapid and versatile method to determine the BrdU content of DNA in brain tissues dissected from BrdU-treated rats. Different to already existing BrdU ELISAs the method is suitable for the assessment of BrdU incorporation in ex vivo experiments as it is based on the analysis of tissue extracts instead of immobilized cells. The method comprises the preparation of DNA extracts from dissected tissues, the immobilization of BrdU-containing DNA with an anti-BrdU antibody and quantification of the incorporated BrdU by a peroxidase-conjugated anti-BrdU antibody. Validating the new assay in vitro, we found a clear-cut dependency of the ELISA signal from the time SKNSH neuroblastoma cells had been exposed to BrdU. Parallel studies with existing ELISAs and a parallel immunocytochemical determination of BrdU positive cells revealed comparable results. In vivo experiments showed a virtually linear relationship between the BrdU immunoreactivity in the hippocampus and the time rats have been exposed to BrdU. Repeating the determination of the BrdU content of the same set of tissue samples revealed reproducible relative differences of the ELISA signals. This was true for protocols using purified DNA as well as crude DNA extracts. For the sensitivity and reproducibility of the method heat denaturation of the DNA prior to the analysis in the ELISA was crucial. In rats treated with electroconvulsion the BrdU content of the hippocampus, determined by the new ELISA, was increased to 225% of controls. In a parallel immunohistochemical study, the number of BrdU positive cells was comparably increased to 251% of controls. The assay thus provides a rapid method to detect changes of cell proliferation in dissected brain tissues and other proliferative tissues. With appropriate protocols, the assay may also be used to assess the generation of particular cell types like neurons in neurogenic areas.
The purpose of this study was to adapt a universal language for human movement, Laban Movement Analysis (LMA), to capture the kinematic and non-kinematic aspects of movement in a reach-for-food task by subjects whose movements had been affected by stroke. Two control subjects, one stroke subject with internal capsule damage, and one subject with right posterior parietal stroke were video recorded while performing the reaching task. The movements of limb advancement, grasping the food, and limb withdrawal to place the food in the mouth, were notated using LMA. A scale, the Expressive Reaching Scale (ERS), was derived from the notation. All subjects completed the task; however, the stroke subjects displayed abnormalities in both the kinematic and non-kinematic aspects of movements during reaching with either limb. The most extensive impairments were in the contralateral-to-stroke limb and were most severe in the subject with internal capsule damage. The ERS rating scale may be a useful diagnosis and assessment tool.
Neural stem cells reside in defined areas of the adult mammalian brain, including the dentate gyrus of the hippocampus. Rat neural stem/progenitor cells (NSPCs) isolated from this region retain their multipotency in vitro and in vivo after grafting into the adult brain. Recent studies have shown that endogenous or grafted NSPCs are activated after an injury and migrate toward lesioned areas. In these areas, reactive astrocytes are present and secrete numerous molecules and growth factors; however, it is not currently known whether reactive astrocytes can influence the lineage selection of NSPCs. We investigated whether reactive astrocytes could affect the differentiation, proliferation, and survival of adult NSPCs by modelling astrogliosis in vitro, using mechanical lesion of primary astrocytes. Initially, it was found that conditioned medium from lesioned astrocytes induced astrocytic differentiation of NSPCs without affecting neuronal or oligodendrocytic differentiation. In addition, NSPCs in coculture with lesioned astrocytes also displayed increased astrocytic differentiation and some of these NSPC-derived astrocytes participated in glial scar formation in vitro. When proliferation and survival of NSPCs were analyzed, no differential effects were observed between lesioned and nonlesioned astrocytes. To investigate the molecular mechanisms of the astrocyte-inducing activity, the expression of two potent inducers of astroglial differentiation, ciliary neurotrophic factor and leukemia inhibitory factor, was analyzed by Western blot and shown to be up-regulated in conditioned medium from lesioned astrocytes. These results demonstrate that lesioned astrocytes can induce astroglial differentiation of NSPCs and provide a mechanism for astroglial differentiation of these cells following brain injury.
We reported previously that onset of oligodendrocyte precursor cell (OPC) differentiation is accompanied by an increase in intracellular pH (pH(i)). We show that OPC differentiation is dependent primarily on a permissive pH(i) value. The highest differentiation levels were observed for pH(i) values around 7.15 and inhibition of differentiation was observed at slightly more acidic or alkaline values. Clamping the pH(i) of OPCs at 7.15 caused a transient activation of ERK1/2 that was not observed at more acidic or alkaline values. Furthermore, inhibition of ERK activation with the UO126 compound totally prevented OPC differentiation in response to pH(i) shift. These results indicate that pH(i), acting through the ERK1/2 pathway, is a key determinant for oligodendrocyte differentiation. We also show that this pH(i) pathway is involved in the process of retinoic acid-induced OPC differentiation.
Recent studies have shown that ethyl pyruvate (EP) acts as an anti-inflammatory molecule in several cell lines including RAW264.7 macrophages. However, the potential therapeutic value of EP for the treatment of the pathologic brain has not been investigated fully. In the present study, we examined whether EP has a beneficial effect on KA-induced neuronal cell death. Intracerebroventricular (i.c.v.) injection of 0.94 nmol (0.2 mug) of KA produced typical neuronal cell death in the CA1 and CA3 pyramidal layers of the hippocampus, and the systemic administration of EP significantly attenuated KA-induced neuronal cell death in these regions. Ethyl pyruvate was found to exert a protective effect when it was injected as late as 12 hr after KA-injection. Moreover, this EP-induced neuroprotection was accompanied by reduced levels of reactive gliosis and COX-2, IL-1beta, and TNF-alpha in the hippocampus. In addition, in passive avoidance tests, KA-induced memory impairment was improved markedly by EP. These results suggest that EP has a therapeutic potential for suppressing KA-induced pathogenesis in the brain.
The transmission of light responses to retinal ganglion cells is regulated by inhibitory input from amacrine cells to bipolar cell (BC) synaptic terminals. GABA(A) and GABA(C) receptors in BC terminals mediate currents with different kinetics and are likely to have distinct functions in limiting BC output; however, the synaptic properties and localization of the receptors are currently poorly understood. By recording endogenous GABA receptor currents directly from BC terminals in goldfish retinal slices, I show that spontaneous GABA release activates rapid GABA(A) receptor miniature inhibitory postsynaptic currents (mIPSCs) (predominant decay time constant (tau(decay)), 1.0 ms) in addition to a tonic GABA(C) receptor current. The GABA(C) receptor antagonist (1,2,5,6-tetrahydropyridin-4-yl)methylphosphinic acid (TPMPA) has no effect on the amplitude or kinetics of the rapid GABA(A) mIPSCs. In addition, inhibition of the GAT-1 GABA transporter, which strongly regulates GABA(C) receptor currents in BC terminals, fails to reveal a GABA(C) component in the mIPSCs. These data suggest that GABA(A) and GABA(C) receptors are highly unlikely to be synaptically colocalized. Using non-stationary noise analysis of the mIPSCs, I estimate that GABA(A) receptors in BC terminals have a single-channel conductance (gamma) of 17 pS and that an average of just seven receptors mediates a quantal event. From noise analysis of the tonic current, GABA(C) receptor gamma is estimated to be 4 pS. Identified GABA(C) receptor mIPSCs exhibit a slow decay (tau(decay), 54 ms) and are mediated by approximately 42 receptors. The distinct properties and localization of synaptic GABA(A) and GABA(C) receptors in BC terminals are likely to facilitate their specific roles in regulating the transmission of light responses in the retina.
Epac is an acronym for the exchange proteins activated directly by cyclic AMP, a family of cAMP-regulated guanine nucleotide exchange factors (cAMPGEFs) that mediate protein kinase A (PKA)-independent signal transduction properties of the second messenger cAMP. Two variants of Epac exist (Epac1 and Epac2), both of which couple cAMP production to the activation of Rap, a small molecular weight GTPase of the Ras family. By activating Rap in an Epac-mediated manner, cAMP influences diverse cellular processes that include integrin-mediated cell adhesion, vascular endothelial cell barrier formation, and cardiac myocyte gap junction formation. Recently, the identification of previously unrecognized physiological processes regulated by Epac has been made possible by the development of Epac-selective cyclic AMP analogues (ESCAs). These cell-permeant analogues of cAMP activate both Epac1 and Epac2, whereas they fail to activate PKA when used at low concentrations. ESCAs such as 8-pCPT-2'-O-Me-cAMP and 8-pMeOPT-2'-O-Me-cAMP are reported to alter Na(+), K(+), Ca(2+) and Cl(-) channel function, intracellular [Ca(2+)], and Na(+)-H(+) transporter activity in multiple cell types. Moreover, new studies examining the actions of ESCAs on neurons, pancreatic beta cells, pituitary cells and sperm demonstrate a major role for Epac in the stimulation of exocytosis by cAMP. This topical review provides an update concerning novel PKA-independent features of cAMP signal transduction that are likely to be Epac-mediated. Emphasized is the emerging role of Epac in the cAMP-dependent regulation of ion channel function, intracellular Ca(2+) signalling, ion transporter activity and exocytosis.
There is increasing evidence that synapse function depends on interactions with glial cells, namely astrocytes. Studies on specific neurons of the central nervous system (CNS) indicated that glial signals also control synapse development, but it remained unclear whether this is a general principle that applies to other neuronal cell types. To address this question, we developed new methods to immunoisolate neurons from different brain regions of postnatal mice and to culture them in a chemically defined medium. Electrophysiological recordings and immunocytochemical staining revealed vigorous synaptogenesis in hippocampal and cerebellar neurons, but not in retinal ganglion cells (RGCs) in the absence of glial cells. Co-culture with glia promoted synapse formation in RGCs as indicated by a strong increase in the incidence and frequency of action potential-independent miniature synaptic currents, but showed no such effects in hippocampal or cerebellar neurons. On the other hand, glial signals promoted the efficacy of excitatory synapses in all regions as indicated by an increase in the size of spontaneous synaptic events in cerebellar cultures and of miniature synaptic currents in hippocampal neurons and RGCs. Inhibitory synaptic currents remained largely unaffected by glia. Our results indicate that in the mammalian CNS, the way that glial signals promote the development of excitatory synapses depends on the type of neuron.
Whole-body responses evoked by bone-conducted sound, a stimulus known to activate vestibular afferents, were recorded in standing subjects deprived of vision. With the head facing forward, unilateral mastoid vibration (500 Hz, 2 s, 136 dB force level) produced an oblique body sway with a consistent lateral component away from the stimulated ear and an average forward component. The side of stimulation had a powerful influence on the direction but not the magnitude of sway. Individuals' mean response directions were significantly clustered between subjects, as well as within subjects for 12 of 16 subjects when tested on five occasions. Single trial analysis did not reveal any habituation of the response. To investigate whether muscle spindle activation might be responsible for the response, vibration was applied directly over posterior and anterior neck muscles and tendons. This generally produced responses that were smaller and with different direction characteristics than with mastoid vibration. In contrast, stimulation over the temporal fossa produced responses similar in magnitude and direction to mastoid stimulation. When the head was turned in yaw to face in different directions the sway response changed direction by the same amount but with no change in magnitude, suggesting response organization in a craniocentric reference frame. Whole-body sway evoked by 500 Hz vibration delivered over sites close to the ear is thus likely to represent a vestibular-evoked balance response. When compared with sway responses evoked by 500 Hz vibration of the left temporal fossa, responses to 1 mA left cathodal galvanic vestibular stimulation were of similar magnitude, yet significantly different in direction, suggesting differences in the end organ afferents activated by these two stimuli. This may enable investigation of previously inaccessible aspects of vestibular function in intact freely behaving human subjects.
Electrophysiological recordings of propagated compound action potentials (CAPs) and axonal Ca(2+) measurements using confocal microscopy were used to study the interplay between AMPA receptors and intracellullar Ca(2+) stores in rat spinal dorsal columns subjected to in vitro combined oxygen and glucose deprivation (OGD). Removal of Ca(2+) or Na(+) from the perfusate was protective after 30 but not 60 min of OGD. TTX was ineffective with either exposure, consistent with its modest effect on ischaemic depolarization. In contrast, AMPA antagonists were very protective, even after 60 min of OGD where 0Ca(2+) + EGTA perfusate was ineffective. Similarly, blocking ryanodine receptor-mediated Ca(2+) mobilization from internal stores (0Ca(2+) + nimodipine or 0Ca(2+) + ryanodine), or inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate (IP(3))-dependent Ca(2+) release (block of group 1 metabotropic glutamate receptors with 1-aminoindan-1,5-dicarboxylic acid, inhibition of phospholipase C with U73122 or IP(3) receptor block with 2APB; each in 0Ca(2+)) were each very protective, with the combination resulting in virtually complete functional recovery after 1 h OGD (97 +/- 32% CAP recovery versus 4 +/- 6% in artificial cerebrospinal fluid). AMPA induced a rise in Ca(2+) concentration in normoxic axons, which was greatly reduced by blocking ryanodine receptors. Our data therefore suggest a novel and surprisingly complex interplay between AMPA receptors and Ca(2+) mobilization from intracellular Ca(2+) stores. We propose that AMPA receptors may not only allow Ca(2+) influx from the extracellular space, but may also significantly influence Ca(2+) release from intra-axonal Ca(2+) stores. In dorsal column axons, AMPA receptor-dependent mechanisms appear to exert a greater influence than voltage-gated Na(+) channels on functional outcome following OGD.
Patients with spasticity typically present with an increased muscle tone that is at least partly caused by an exaggerated stretch reflex. However, intrinsic changes in the skeletal muscles, such as altered mechanical properties of the extracellular matrix or the cytoskeleton, have been reported in response to spasticity and could contribute to hypertonia, although the underlying mechanisms are poorly understood. Here we examined the vastus lateralis muscles from spinal cord-injured patients with spasticity (n = 7) for their passive mechanical properties at three different levels of structural organization, in comparison to healthy controls (n = 7). We also assessed spasticity-related alterations in muscle protein expression and muscle ultrastructure. At the whole-muscle level in vivo, we observed increased passive tension (PT) in some spasticity patients particularly at long muscle lengths, unrelated to stretch reflex activation. At the single-fibre level, elevated PT was found in cells expressing fast myosin heavy chain (MyHC) isoforms, especially MyHC-IIx, but not in those expressing slow MyHC. Type IIx fibres were present in higher than normal proportions in spastic muscles, whereas type I fibres were proportionately reduced. At the level of the isolated myofibril, however, there were no differences in PT between patients and controls. The molecular size of the giant protein titin, a main contributor to PT, was unchanged in spasticity, as was the titin : MyHC ratio and the relative desmin content. Electron microscopy revealed extensive ultrastructural changes in spastic muscles, especially expanded connective tissue, but also decreased mitochondrial volume fraction and appearance of intracellular amorphous material. Results strongly suggest that the global passive muscle stiffening in spasticity patients is caused to some degree by elevated PT of the skeletal muscles themselves. We conclude that this increased PT component arises not only from extracellular matrix remodelling, but also from structural and functional adaptations inside the muscle cells, which alter their passive mechanical properties in response to spasticity in a fibre type-dependent manner.
We recently showed that the activity of cerebellar Golgi cells can be powerfully modulated by stimulation of peripheral afferents, in a pattern different to local Purkinje cells. Here we have examined the pathways underlying these responses. Graded electrical stimulation of muscle and cutaneous nerves revealed that long-lasting depressions and short-lasting excitations of Golgi cells were evoked by stimulation of cutaneous nerves at stimulus intensities that activated large mechanoreceptive afferents, and grew as additional afferents were recruited. In contrast, none of the neurones responded to stimulation of muscle nerves at intensities that activated group I afferents, although about half responded with long-lasting depressions, but not excitations, to stimuli that recruited group II and III afferents. Selective lesions of the spinal dorsal columns did not affect either of these types of response. After lesions of one lateral funiculus in the lumbar cord the responses evoked by stimulation of the hindlimb contralateral to the lesion were reduced or abolished, leaving responses evoked by ipsilateral hindlimb afferents unaltered. Since both ipsi- and contralateral afferents generate responses in Golgi cells, the convergence from the two sides must occur supraspinally. It is difficult to reconcile these properties with any of the direct spinocerebellar pathways or spinoreticulocerebellar pathways that have been described. Instead, it is likely that the responses are evoked via the multimodal 'wide dynamic range' neurones of the anterolateral system. Golgi cell activity may thus be powerfully enhanced or depressed during arousal via the anterolateral system.
We investigated the effects of PACAP treatment, and endogenous PACAP deficiency, on infarct volume, neurological function, and the cerebrocortical transcriptional response in a mouse model of stroke, middle cerebral artery occlusion (MCAO). PACAP-38 administered i.v. or i.c.v. 1 h after MCAO significantly reduced infarct volume, and ameliorated functional motor deficits measured 24 h later in wild-type mice. Infarct volumes and neurological deficits (walking faults) were both greater in PACAP-deficient than in wild-type mice, but treatment with PACAP reduced lesion volume and neurological deficits in PACAP-deficient mice to the same level of improvement as in wild-type mice. A 35,546-clone mouse cDNA microarray was used to investigate cortical transcriptional changes associated with cerebral ischemia in wild-type and PACAP-deficient mice, and with PACAP treatment after MCAO in wild-type mice. 229 known (named) transcripts were increased (228) or decreased (1) in abundance at least 50% following cerebral ischemia in wild-type mice. 49 transcripts were significantly up-regulated only at 1 h post-MCAO (acute response transcripts), 142 were up-regulated only at 24 h post-MCAO (delayed response transcripts) and 37 transcripts were up-regulated at both times (sustained response transcripts). More than half of these are transcripts not previously reported to be altered in ischemia. A larger percentage of genes up-regulated at 24 hr than at 1 hr required endogenous PACAP, suggesting a more prominent role for PACAP in later response to injury than in the initial response. This is consistent with a neuroprotective role for PACAP in late response to injury, i.e., even when administered 1 hr or more after MCAO. Putative injury effector transcripts regulated by PACAP include beta-actin, midline 2, and metallothionein 1. Potential neuroprotective transcripts include several demonstrated to be PACAP-regulated in other contexts. Prominent among these were transcripts encoding the PACAP-regulated gene Ier3, and the neuropeptides enkephalin, substance P (tachykinin 1), and neurotensin.
We previously reported that rat oligodendrocyte progenitors (OLP) express receptors for the pituitary adenylyl cyclase-activating peptide (PACAP) in vivo and in vitro. Addition of PACAP to cultured OLP triggered a potent elevation in intracellular cAMP contents, a dose-dependent stimulation of proliferation, and a delay in myelinogenesis (Lee M, Lelievre V, Zhao P, Torres M, Rodriguez W, Byun JY, Doshi S, Ioffe Y, Gupta G, de los Monteros AE, de Vellis J, Waschek J. Pituitary adenylyl cyclase-activating polypeptide stimulates DNA synthesis but delays maturation of oligodendrocyte progenitors. J Neurosci. 2001 21:3849-59.). In an attempt to understand how PACAP might interact with growth factors known to stimulate OLP proliferation, we investigated PACAP actions on OLP proliferation in the presence of Fibroblast Growth Factor-2 (FGF-2) and PDGF. Multiple PACAP receptor subtype mRNAs and splice variants were detected in these cultures. PACAP by itself potently stimulated OLP proliferation and enhanced the ability of FGF-2 to stimulate DNA synthesis. In contrast, this peptide strongly antagonized the mitogenic effects of PDGF in association with a reduction of PDGFalpha receptor gene expression. Additionally, we investigated the interaction of PACAP with the morphogenetic factor sonic hedgehog (Shh), which recently was shown to be crucial for oligodendrocyte generation. OLP cultures were found to express mRNAs for both ptc1 (Shh receptor) and gli1 (Shh target gene) and responded to Shh treatment with an increase in proliferation. PACAP antagonized the ability of Shh to stimulate OLP proliferation. Moreover, transcriptional targets of Shh signaling were also reduced by this treatment, suggesting that PACAP directly antagonized Shh signaling. These studies reveal complex in vitro interactions of PACAP with other factors involved in OLP development.




We describe clinical and genetic analysis of a family with spinocerebellar ataxia 17 (SCA17) presenting with a Huntington disease-like (HDL) syndrome. Clinically diagnosed, HD is genetically heterogeneous. Differential diagnosis includes SCA17. However, SCA17 HDL presentation has been observed only sporadically or in solitary individuals within a family. HDL phenotypic homogeneity in SCA17 has not been described. SCA17 can present with a HDL syndrome in multiple family members.
We prospectively recorded CSF opening pressure in 242 adults who had a lumbar puncture with concomitant measurement of weight and height. The 95% reference interval for lumbar CSF opening pressure was 10 to 25 cm CSF. Body mass index had a small but clinically insignificant influence on CSF opening pressure.

Rosai-Dorfman disease is associated with a histiocytic infiltration of lymphoid tissue, but may also involve the orbit, nasopharynx, respiratory pathways, gastrointestinal tract, endocrine glands (particularly the thyroid), bone, and skin. Neurologic manifestations are rare, occurring in 4% of one series, and the diagnosis is often not made until pathology is available. Using data from two cases, we present the clinical manifestations, pathology, and treatment, and review the literature regarding the ocular and neurologic manifestations. Finally, we discuss the optimum management of this disorder.


Reactive astrocytes in neurotrauma, stroke, or neurodegeneration are thought to undergo cellular hypertrophy, based on their morphological appearance revealed by immunohistochemical detection of glial fibrillary acidic protein, vimentin, or nestin, all of them forming intermediate filaments, a part of the cytoskeleton. Here, we used a recently established dye-filling method to reveal the full three-dimensional shape of astrocytes assessing the morphology of reactive astrocytes in two neurotrauma models. Both in the denervated hippocampal region and the lesioned cerebral cortex, reactive astrocytes increased the thickness of their main cellular processes but did not extend to occupy a greater volume of tissue than nonreactive astrocytes. Despite this hypertrophy of glial fibrillary acidic protein-containing cellular processes, interdigitation between adjacent hippocampal astrocytes remained minimal. This work helps to redefine the century-old concept of hypertrophy of reactive astrocytes.
Previous research has shown that birds and primates have a rich repertoire of behavioral and cognitive skills, but the mechanisms underlying these abilities are not well understood. A common hypothesis is that these adaptations are mediated by an efficient long-term memory, allowing animals to remember specific external events and associate appropriate behaviors to these events. Because earlier studies have not sufficiently challenged memory capacity in animals, our comparative research examined with equivalent procedures the size and mechanisms of long-term memory in baboons and pigeons. Findings revealed very large, but different, capacities in both species to learn and remember picture-response associations. Pigeons could maximally memorize between 800 and 1,200 picture-response associations before reaching the limit of their performance. In contrast, baboons minimally memorized 3,500-5,000 items and had not reached their limit after more than 3 years of testing. No differences were detected in how these associations were retained or otherwise processed by these species. These results demonstrate that pigeons and monkeys have sufficient memory resources to develop memory-based exemplar or feature learning strategies in many test situations. They further suggest that the evolution of cognition and behavior importantly may have involved the gradual enlargement of the long-term memory capacities of the brain.
The unique profiles of gene expression dictate distinct cellular identity. How these profiles are established during development is not clear. Here we report that the mutant motionless (mot), identified in a genetic screen for mutations that affect neuronal development in zebrafish, displays deficits of monoaminergic neurons and cranial sensory ganglia, whereas expression of the pan-neuronal marker Hu is largely unperturbed; GABAergic and subsets of cranial motor neurons do not appear to be deficient. Positional cloning reveals that mot encodes Med12, a component of the evolutionarily conserved Mediator complex, whose in vivo function is not well understood in vertebrates. mot/med12 transcripts are enriched in the embryonic brain and appear distinct from two other Mediator components Med17 and Med21. Delivery of human med12 RNA into zebrafish restores normality to the mot mutant and, strikingly, leads to premature neuronal differentiation and an increased production of monoaminergic neuronal subtypes in WT. Further investigation reveals that mot/med12 is necessary to regulate, and when overexpressed is capable of increasing, the expression of distinct neuronal determination genes, including zash1a and lim1, and serves as an in vivo cofactor for Sox9 in this process. Together, our analyses reveal a regulatory role of Mot/Med12 in vertebrate neuronal development.
Polymorphisms in the complement factor H gene (CFH) are associated with a significantly increased risk for, or protection against, the development of age-related macular degeneration (AMD). The most documented risk-conferring single-nucleotide polymorphism results in a tyrosine-to-histidine substitution at position 402 (Y402H) of the CFH protein. In this work, we examined the ocular distributions and relative abundance of CFH, several CFH-binding proteins, and abundant serum proteins in the retinal pigmented epithelium (RPE), Bruch's membrane, and choroid (RPE-choroid) in CFH homozygotes possessing either the &quot;at-risk&quot; 402HH or &quot;normal&quot; 402YY variants. Although CFH immunoreactivity is high in the choroid and in drusen, no differences in CFH-labeling patterns between genotypes are apparent. In contrast, at-risk individuals have significantly higher levels of the CFH-binding protein, C-reactive protein (CRP), in the choroidal stroma. Immunoblots confirm that at-risk individuals have approximately 2.5-fold higher levels of CRP in the RPE-choroid; no significant differences in the levels of CFH or other serum proteins are detected. Similarly, we find no differences in CFH transcription levels in the RPE-choroid nor evidence for local ocular CRP transcription. Increased levels of CRP in the choroid may reflect a state of chronic inflammation that is a by-product of attenuated CFH complement-inhibitory activity in those who possess the CFH at-risk allele. Because the CRP-binding site in CFH lies within the domain containing the Y402H polymorphism, it is also possible that the AMD risk-conferring allele alters the binding properties of CFH, thereby leading to choroidal CRP deposition, contributing to AMD pathogenesis.
Vestibular efferents have a common origin with the motoneurons of the facial nerve. In adults they share a number of common features, such as the same transmitter. Here we show using retrograde transport and immunohistochemistry, that the vestibular efferents, like facial motoneurons, contain peripherin. This supports the suggestion that peripherin-positive fibers at the apex of the cristae ampullaris are efferents.
Interleukin 10 (IL-10) is an important anti-inflammatory cytokine produced in response to neuroinflammation and might be involved in modulating the progression of Alzheimer's disease (AD) through inhibiting the action of pro-inflammatory cytokines. We have used immunohistochemistry, Western blotting, real time-PCR (RT-PCR) on frontal (BA 6/24) and temporal (BA 20-22) neocortex and hippocampus from AD and control brains as well as genetic association analysis to address the possible involvement of IL-10 in AD. Expression of IL-10 in AD and control brains at both protein and mRNA levels were detected. However, the level of expression, particularly of IL-10 protein, varied considerably in individual brains and we did not find a significant difference between AD and controls. Using direct sequencing we examined five single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) (-3538, -1354, -1087, -824, -597) and two microsatellites (IL-10-G, IL-10-R) in the promoter region of the IL-10 gene. None of the identified SNPs were found to be associated with AD either individually or as haplotypes. Levels of IL-10 protein and gene expression examined also did not appear to be related to AD. Despite this being a relatively small sample, these data suggest that IL-10 does not play a major role in the development of AD.

The subiculum has a central position between the hippocampus proper and entorhinal and other cortices, as well as a range of subcortical structures. The functional role of subiculum within the hippocampal formation circuit remains largely unexplored and a theoretical and experimental consensus on its functions has yet to emerge. Presented here is a simple and speculative model of the functions of the subiculum, based partly on anatomical, behavioural and neurophysiological considerations. The model suggests, firstly, that the subiculum acts to amplify hippocampal output, given the prominent bursting behaviour of its neurons and, secondly, that there is a dorso-ventral segregation of function within the subiculum. The dorsal component appears principally concerned with the processing of information about space, movement and memory, whereas the ventral component appears to play a major regulatory role in the inhibition of the HPA axis.

This paper summarises the picture of the subiculum presented by Gray and McNaughton [Gray JA, McNaughton N. The neuropsychology of anxiety: an enquiry into the functions of the septo-hippocampal system. Oxford: Oxford University Press; 2000]. It is a key node in their &quot;Behavioural Inhibition System&quot; and, as such, is embedded within a hierarchy of structures controlling anxiety that is in parallel with a separate hierarchy controlling fear. It can nonetheless be viewed as operating in a fairly simple manner. It receives information about available goals from areas that plan motor action. This is filtered by earlier elements of the essentially unidirectional hippocampal circuit that essentially block familiar and unimportant information while passing to the subiculum important information. The function of the subiculum is to compare and integrate this goal information and produce output when conflict between incompatible goals is detected. This output prevents execution of the responses that would address the conflicting goals, increases the valence of affectively negative stimuli and associations and releases external exploration and internal rumination intended to resolve the conflict. These subicular outputs are held to be computationally simple but to have complex consequences both because of the complexity of the target areas and because, in many cases, processing is recursive. It can involve multiple passages of essentially the same information round loops such as the circuit of Papez--each pass refining the solution to the original problem of conflicting goals.
This paper summarizes published as well as yet unpublished data on the organization of the subiculum. Because of the complex three-dimensional structure of the hippocampus, all traditional planes of sectioning will result in sections that at some point or another do not cut through the hippocampus at an angle that is perpendicular to its long axis; particular focus therefore is on data using the so-called extended preparation. On the basis of our yet fragmented insights in the intrinsic network, as well as the known organization of major efferents and afferents, we propose that the subiculum is organized as a matrix of columnar modules along the transverse axis showing partial laminar connectivity. Although many pieces of the large-scale puzzle on the subicular neuronal network as part of an input-output network for the hippocampus are still missing, it appears that subicular organization is different from that known for CA1. This indicates that major functional differences between CA1 and the subiculum are to be expected.
Head direction cells are described in the presubiculum of the macaque, used as a model of what is likely to be present in humans. The firing rate of these cells is a function of the head direction of the monkey, with a response that is typically 10-100 times larger to the optimal as compared to the opposite head direction. The mean half-amplitude width of the tuning of the cells was 76 degrees . The response of head direction cells in the presubiculum was not influenced by the place where the monkey was, by the 'spatial view' observed by the monkey, and also the position of the eyes in the head. The cells maintained their tuning for periods of at least several minutes when the view details were obscured or the room was darkened. This representation of head direction could be useful together with the hippocampal spatial view cells and whole body motion cells in primates in such memory and spatial functions as episodic memory and path integration. Discrete and continuous attractor networks can be combined so that they contain both object and spatial information, and thus provide a model of episodic memory. Self-organizing continuous attractor neural networks that can perform path integration from velocity signals (e.g. head direction from head rotational velocity, and place from whole body motion) are described. The role of the subiculum in the backprojection pathways from the hippocampus to the neocortex in a quantitative model of the recall of memories from the hippocampus is described.
The objective of the study was to evaluate differentiation of human bone marrow mesenchymal stem cells into true or pseudo neurons after treating with chemical induction medium in vitro. The morphological changes were assessed using interference contrast microscopy. Immunocytochemistry and Western blotting were performed using neuronal markers. Further evaluation was conducted with proteomic profiling, DNA microarray analysis and the whole-cell patch clamp test. After three hours of treatment with chemical induction medium, nearly three-fourths of the hMSCs changed to cells with a neuronal phenotype. The results of immunocytochemistry and Western blotting showed a high expression of neuronal markers in these cells at 3 h which decreased at 24 h. The proteomics analysis showed no change of proteins related to neuronal differentiation. DNA microarray showed downregulation of neuron related genes. The patch clamp test was unable to demonstrate any similarity to true neurons. Our findings suggest that neuron-like cells derived from chemical induction of hMSCs are not the genuine neurons as they resemble true neurons phenotypically but are different in genotypic and electrophysiological characteristics.
GGAs (Golgi-localizing, gamma-adaptin ear domain homology, ADP-ribosylation factor (ARF)-binding proteins), constitute a family of monomeric adaptor proteins and are associated with protein trafficking from the trans-Golgi network to endosomes. Here, we show that GGA3 is monoubiquitylated by a RING-H2 type-ubiquitin ligase hVPS18 (human homologue of vacuolar protein sorting 18). By in vitro ubiquitylation assays, we have identified lysine 258 in the GAT domain as a major ubiquitylation site that resides adjacent to the ubiquitin-binding site. The ubiquitylation is abolished by a mutation in either the GAT domain or ubiquitin that disrupts the GAT-ubiquitin interaction, indicating that the ubiquitin binding is a prerequisite for the ubiquitylation. Furthermore, the GAT domain ubiquitylated by hVPS18 no longer binds to ubiquitin, indicating that ubiquitylation negatively regulates the ubiquitin-binding ability of the GAT domain. These results suggest that the ubiquitin binding and ubiquitylation of GGA3-GAT domain are mutually inseparable through a ubiquitin ligase activity of hVPS18.
Alcohol can severely damage the developing brain, and neuronal loss is a critical component of this injury. Thus, identification of molecular factors that ameliorate alcohol-induced neuronal loss is of great importance. Previous in vitro work has demonstrated that nitric oxide (NO) protects neurons against alcohol toxicity. We tested the hypothesis that neonatal mice carrying a null mutation for neuronal nitric oxide synthase (nNOS), the enzyme that synthesizes NO in neurons, have an increased vulnerability to alcohol-induced neuronal loss in the neocortex and hippocampus. Wildtype mice and nNOS-/- mice received ethanol (0.0, 2.2, 3.3, or 4.4 g/kg) daily over postnatal days (P) 4-9 and were sacrificed on P10. The number of hippocampal CA1 and CA3 pyramidal cells, dentate gyrus granule cells, and neocortical neurons were determined using stereological methods. Alcohol pharmacokinetics did not differ between wildtype and nNOS-/- strains. Alcohol induced dose-dependent reductions in all four neuronal populations, and the losses were substantially more severe in the nNOS-/- mice than in wildtype. Furthermore, the threshold dose of alcohol to induce cell death was lower in the nNOS-/- mice than in the wildtype mice for all neuronal populations. While nNOS deficiency worsened alcohol-induced neuronal losses, the magnitude of this exacerbation varied among brain regions and depended on alcohol dose. These results demonstrate that nNOS deficiency decreases the ability of developing neurons in vivo to survive the toxic effects of alcohol and strengthen the hypothesis that NO exerts a neuroprotective effect against alcohol toxicity in the developing brain.
To identify structures that determine the 90 degree orientation of thin espalier dendritic trees of Purkinje cells with respect to parallel fibers (axonal neurite bundles of granule cells) in the cerebellar cortex, we designed five types of two-dimensional and three-dimensional cell and tissue cultures of cerebella from postnatal mice and analyzed the orientation of Purkinje cell dendrites with respect to neurite bundles and astrocyte fibers by immunofluorescence double or triple staining. We cultured dissociated cerebellar cells on micropatterned substrates and preformed neurite bundles of a microexplant culture two-dimensionally and in matrix gels three-dimensionally. Dendrites, but not axons, of Purkinje cells extended toward the neurites of granule cells and oriented at right angles two-dimensionally to aligned neurite bundles in the three cultures. In a more organized explant proper of the microexplant culture, Purkinje cell dendrites extended toward thin aligned neurite bundles not only consistently at right angles but also two-dimensionally. However, in the &quot;organotypic microexplant culture,&quot; in which three-dimensionally aligned thick neurite bundles mimicking parallel fibers were produced, Purkinje cell dendrites often oriented perpendicular to the thick bundles three-dimensionally. Astrocytes were abundant in all cultures, and there was no definite correlation between the presence of and orientation to Purkinje cell dendrites, although their fibers were frequently associated in parallel with dendrites in the organotypic microexplant culture. Therefore, Purkinje cells may grow their dendrites to the newly produced neurite bundles of parallel fibers in the cerebellar cortex and be oriented at right angles three-dimensionally mainly via &quot;perpendicular contact guidance.&quot;

Studies were conducted to elucidate co-receptor spectrum and function of the inflammatory receptor, CMKLR1/ChemR23, which was recently identified as the receptor for the cystatin-like chemoattractant, TIG2, also named chemerin. An infection model was applied based on stably transfected NP-2.CD4 host cells expressing various co-receptor constructs and exposed to panels of HIV-1, HIV-2 and SIV primary isolates. In a panel of 27 HIV-1 isolates tested, 12 isolates could use CMKLR1/ChemR23. As expected from a relatively high sequence homology with the extracellular domains of CCR3, HIV-1 isolates showing R3 tropism were particularly efficient in using CMKLR1/ChemR23. In addition, 5 out of 7 HIV-2 isolates and 13 out of 15 SIV (SMM-3 origin) used CMKLR1/ChemR23, in accordance with the previously documented ability of these isolates to use several co-receptors. In order to define important extracellular epitopes for the viral interaction, a hybrid receptor model was applied. This was based on the fact that the rat receptor, although structurally very similar to the human orthologue, was inefficient as viral co-receptor. When the rat receptor was &quot;humanized&quot; to include regions unique to the human receptor (N-terminus or second extracellular loop), exposure to HIV-1, HIV-2 and SIV isolates resulted in infection. The relative importance of the two critical receptor regions differed between HIV-1/HIV-2 on the one hand and SIV on the other. The results strongly support that the chemerin receptor, in the presence of CD4, functions as a &quot;minor co-receptor&quot; promoting infection by these classes of viruses.

Alzheimer's disease is the most common cause of dementia in the elderly, and manifests as progressive cognitive decline and profound neuronal loss. The principal neuropathological hallmarks of Alzheimer's disease are the senile plaques and the neurofibrillary tangles. The senile plaques are surrounded by activated microglia, which are largely responsible for the proinflammatory environment within the diseased brain. Microglia are the resident innate immune cells in the brain. In response to contact with fibrillar beta-amyloid, microglia secrete a diverse array of proinflammatory molecules. Evidence suggests that oxidative stress emanating from activated microglia contribute to the neuronal loss characteristic of this disease. The source of fibrillar beta-amyloid induced reactive oxygen species is primarily the microglial nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate (NADPH) oxidase. The NADPH oxidase is a multicomponent enzyme complex that, upon activation, produces the highly reactive free radical superoxide. The cascade of intracellular signaling events leading to NADPH oxidase assembly and the subsequent release of superoxide in fibrillar beta-amyloid stimulated microglia has recently been elucidated. The induction of reactive oxygen species, as well as nitric oxide, from activated microglia can enhance the production of more potent free radicals such as peroxynitrite. The formation of peroxynitrite causes protein oxidation, lipid peroxidation and DNA damage, which ultimately lead to neuronal cell death. The elimination of beta-amyloid-induced oxidative damage through the inhibition of the NADPH oxidase represents an attractive therapeutic target for the treatment of Alzheimer's disease.
Homeostatic plasticity may compensate for Hebbian forms of synaptic plasticity, such as long-term potentiation (LTP) and depression (LTD), by scaling neuronal output without changing the relative strength of individual synapses. This delicate balance between neuronal output and distributed synaptic weight may be necessary for maintaining efficient encoding of information across neuronal networks. Here, we demonstrate that Arc/Arg3.1, an immediate-early gene (IEG) that is rapidly induced by neuronal activity associated with information encoding in the brain, mediates homeostatic synaptic scaling of AMPA type glutamate receptors (AMPARs) via its ability to activate a novel and selective AMPAR endocytic pathway. High levels of Arc/Arg3.1 block the homeostatic increases in AMPAR function induced by chronic neuronal inactivity. Conversely, loss of Arc/Arg3.1 results in increased AMPAR function and abolishes homeostatic scaling of AMPARs. These observations, together with evidence that Arc/Arg3.1 is required for memory consolidation, reveal the importance of Arc/Arg3.1's dynamic expression as it exerts continuous and precise control over synaptic strength and cellular excitability.
Arc/Arg3.1 is an immediate-early gene whose mRNA is rapidly transcribed and targeted to dendrites of neurons as they engage in information processing and storage. Moreover, Arc/Arg3.1 is known to be required for durable forms of synaptic plasticity and learning. Despite these intriguing links to plasticity, Arc/Arg3.1's molecular function remains enigmatic. Here, we demonstrate that Arc/Arg3.1 protein interacts with dynamin and specific isoforms of endophilin to enhance receptor endocytosis. Arc/Arg3.1 selectively modulates trafficking of AMPA-type glutamate receptors (AMPARs) in neurons by accelerating endocytosis and reducing surface expression. The Arc/Arg3.1-endocytosis pathway appears to regulate basal AMPAR levels since Arc/Arg3.1 KO neurons exhibit markedly reduced endocytosis and increased steady-state surface levels. These findings reveal a novel molecular pathway that is regulated by Arc/Arg3.1 and likely contributes to late-phase synaptic plasticity and memory consolidation.
In patients with medullary thyroid carcinoma (MTC) and type 2A multiple endocrine neoplasia (MEN2A), mutations of cysteine residues in the extracellular juxtamembrane region of the RET receptor tyrosine kinase cause the formation of covalent receptor dimers linked by intermolecular disulfide bonds between unpaired cysteines, followed by oncogenic activation of the RET kinase. The close proximity to the plasma membrane of the affected cysteine residues prompted us to investigate the possible role of the transmembrane (TM) domain of RET (RET-TM) in receptor-receptor interactions underlying dimer formation. Strong self-association of the RET-TM was observed in a biological membrane. Mutagenesis studies indicated the involvement of the evolutionary conserved residues Ser-649 and Ser-653 in RET-TM oligomerization. Unexpectedly, RET-TM interactions were also abrogated in the A639G/A641R double mutant, first identified in a sporadic case of MTC. In agreement with this, no transforming activity could be detected in full-length RET carrying the A639G and A641R mutations, which remained fully responsive to glial cell-line-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF) stimulation. When introduced in the context of C634R - a cysteine replacement that is prevalent in MEN2A cases - the A639G/A641R mutations significantly reduced dimer formation and transforming activity in this otherwise highly oncogenic RET variant. These data suggest that a strong propensity to self-association in the RET-TM underlies - and may be required for - dimer formation and oncogenic activation of juxtamembrane cysteine mutants of RET, and explains the close proximity to the plasma membrane of cysteine residues implicated in MEN2A and MTC syndromes.
In decerebrated, nonanesthetized cats, we made intracellular whole-cell recordings and extracellular cell-attached recordings from granule cells in the cerebellar C3 zone. Spontaneous EPSPs had large, relatively constant peak amplitudes, whereas IPSPs were small and did not appear to contribute substantially to synaptic integration at a short time scale. In many cases, the EPSPs of individual mossy fiber synapses appeared to be separable by their peak amplitudes. A substantial proportion of our granule cells had small receptive fields on the forelimb skin. Skin stimulation evoked explosive responses in which the constituent EPSPs were analyzed. In the rising phase of the response, our analyses indicated a participation of three to four different mossy fiber synapses, corresponding to the total number of mossy fiber afferents. The cutaneous receptive fields of the driven EPSPs overlapped, indicating an absence of convergence of mossy fibers activated from different receptive fields. Also in granule cells activated by joint movements did we find indications that different afferents were driven by the same type of input. Regardless of input type, the temporal patterns of granule cell spike activity, both spontaneous and evoked, appeared to primarily follow the activity in the presynaptic mossy fibers, although much of the nonsynchronized mossy fiber input was filtered out. In contrast to the prevailing theories of granule cell function, our results suggest a function of granule cells as signal-to-noise enhancing threshold elements, rather than as sparse coding pattern discriminators or temporal pattern generators.
A variety of studies in the visual system demonstrate that coarse spatial features are processed before those of fine detail. This aspect of visual processing is assumed to originate in striate cortex, where single cells exhibit a refinement of spatial frequency tuning over the duration of their response. However, in early visual pathways, well known temporal differences are present between center and surround components of receptive fields. Specifically, response latency of the receptive field center is relatively shorter than that of the surround. This spatiotemporal inseparability could provide the basis of coarse-to-fine dynamics in early and subsequent visual areas. We have investigated this possibility with three separate approaches. First, we predict spatial-frequency tuning dynamics from the spatiotemporal receptive fields of 118 cells in the lateral geniculate nucleus (LGN). Second, we compare these linear predictions to measurements of tuning dynamics obtained with a subspace reverse correlation technique. We find that tuning evolves dramatically in thalamic cells, and that tuning changes are generally consistent with the temporal differences between spatiotemporal receptive field components. Third, we use a model to examine how different sources of dynamic input from early visual pathways can affect tuning in cortical cells. We identify two mechanisms capable of producing substantial dynamics at the cortical level: (1) the center-surround delay in individual LGN neurons, and (2) convergent input from multiple cells with different receptive field sizes and response latencies. Overall, our simulations suggest that coarse-to-fine tuning in the visual cortex can be generated completely by a feedforward process.
Different cerebellar phenotypes are generated according to a precise spatiotemporal schedule, in which projection neurons precede local interneurons. Glutamatergic neurons develop from the rhombic lip, whereas GABAergic neurons originate from the ventricular neuroepithelium. Progenitors in these germinal layers are committed toward specific phenotypes already at early ontogenetic stages. GABAergic interneurons are thought to derive from a subset of ventricular zone cells, which migrate in the white matter and proliferate up to postnatal life. During this period, different interneuron categories are produced according to an inside-out sequence, from the deep nuclei to the molecular layer (we show here that nuclear interneurons are also born during late embryonic and early postnatal days, after glutamatergic and GABAergic projection neurons). To ask whether distinct interneuron phenotypes share common precursors or derive from multiple fate-restricted progenitors, we examined the behavior of embryonic and postnatal rat cerebellar cells heterotopically/heterochronically transplanted to syngenic hosts. In all conditions, donor cells achieved a high degree of integration in the cerebellar cortex and deep nuclei and acquired GABAergic interneuron phenotypes appropriate for the host age and engraftment site. Therefore, contrary to other cerebellar types, which derive from dedicated precursors, GABAergic interneurons are produced by a common pool of progenitors, which maintain their full developmental potentialities up to late ontogenetic stages and adopt mature identities in response to local instructive cues. In this way, the numbers and types of inhibitory interneurons can be set by spatiotemporally patterned signals to match the functional requirements of developing cerebellar circuits.
Ion channels reside in a sea of phospholipids. During normal fluctuations in membrane potential and periods of modulation, lipids that directly associate with channel proteins influence gating by incompletely understood mechanisms. In one model, M(1)-muscarinic receptors (M(1)Rs) may inhibit both Ca(2+) (L- and N-) and K(+) (M-) currents by losing a putative interaction between channels and phosphatidylinositol-4,5-bisphosphate (PIP(2)). However, we found previously that M(1)R inhibition of N-current in superior cervical ganglion (SCG) neurons requires loss of PIP(2) and generation of a free fatty acid, probably arachidonic acid (AA) by phospholipase A(2) (PLA(2)). It is not known whether PLA(2) activity and AA also participate in L- and M-current modulation in SCG neurons. To test whether PLA(2) plays a similar role in M(1)R inhibition of L- and M-currents, we used several experimental approaches and found unanticipated divergent signaling. First, blocking resynthesis of PIP(2) minimized M-current recovery from inhibition, whereas L-current recovered normally. Second, L-current inhibition required group IVa PLA(2) [cytoplasmic PLA(2) (cPLA(2))], whereas M-current did not. Western blot and imaging studies confirmed acute activation of cPLA(2) by muscarinic stimulation. Third, in type IIa PLA(2) [secreted (sPLA(2))](-/-)/cPLA(2)(-/-) double-knock-out SCG neurons, muscarinic inhibition of L-current decreased. In contrast, M-current inhibition remained unaffected but recovery was impaired. Our results indicate that L-current is inhibited by a pathway previously shown to control M-current over-recovery after washout of muscarinic agonist. Our findings support a model of M(1)R-meditated channel modulation that broadens rather than restricts the roles of phospholipids and fatty acids in regulating ion channel activity.
During embryogenesis, the lateral cortical stream (LCS) emerges from the corticostriatal border (CSB), the boundary between the developing cerebral cortex and striatum. The LCS is comprised of a mix of pallial- and subpallial-derived neural progenitor cells that migrate to the developing structures of the basal telencephalon, most notably the piriform cortex and amygdala. Using a combination of in vitro and in vivo approaches, we analyzed the timing, composition, migratory modes, origin, and requirement of the homeodomain-containing transcription factor Gsh2 (genomic screened homeobox 2) in the development of this prominent migratory stream. We reveal that Pax6 (paired box gene 6)-positive pallial-derived and Dlx2 (distal-less homeobox 2)-positive subpallial-derived subpopulations of LCS cells are generated in distinct temporal windows during embryogenesis. Furthermore, our data indicate the CSB border not only is comprised of separate populations of pallial- and subpallial-derived progenitors that contribute to the LCS but also a subpopulation of cells coexpressing Pax6 and Dlx2. Moreover, despite migrating along a route outlined by a cascade of radial glia, the Dlx2-positive population appears to migrate primarily in an apparent chain-like manner, with LCS migratory cells being generated locally at the CSB with little contribution from other subpallial structures such as the medial, lateral, or caudal ganglionic eminences. We further demonstrate that the generation of the LCS is dependent on the homeodomain-containing gene Gsh2, revealing a novel requirement for Gsh2 in telencephalic development.
Plasticity of vision mediated through binocular interactions has been reported in mammals only during a &quot;critical&quot; period in juvenile life, wherein monocular deprivation (MD) causes an enduring loss of visual acuity (amblyopia) selectively through the deprived eye. Here, we report a different form of interocular plasticity of vision in adult mice in which MD leads to an enhancement of the optokinetic response (OKR) selectively through the nondeprived eye. Over 5 d of MD, the spatial frequency sensitivity of the OKR increased gradually, reaching a plateau of approximately 36% above pre-deprivation baseline. Eye opening initiated a gradual decline, but sensitivity was maintained above pre-deprivation baseline for 5-6 d. Enhanced function was restricted to the monocular visual field, notwithstanding the dependence of the plasticity on binocular interactions. Activity in visual cortex ipsilateral to the deprived eye was necessary for the characteristic induction of the enhancement, and activity in visual cortex contralateral to the deprived eye was necessary for its maintenance after MD. The plasticity also displayed distinct learning-like properties: Active testing experience was required to attain maximal enhancement and for enhancement to persist after MD, and the duration of enhanced sensitivity after MD was extended by increasing the length of MD, and by repeating MD. These data show that the adult mouse visual system maintains a form of experience-dependent plasticity in which the visual cortex can modulate the normal function of subcortical visual pathways.
Practice makes perfect, but the neural substrates of trial-to-trial learning in motor tasks remain unclear. There is some evidence that the basal ganglia process feedback-related information to modify learning in essentially cognitive tasks , but the evidence that these key motor structures are involved in offline feedback-related improvement of performance in motor tasks is paradoxically limited. Lesion studies in adult zebra finches suggest that the avian basal ganglia are involved in the transmission or production of an error signal during song . However, patients with Huntington's disease, in which there is prominent basal ganglia dysfunction, are not impaired in error-dependent modulation of future trial performance . By directly recording from the subthalamic nucleus in patients with Parkinson's disease, we demonstrate that this nucleus processes error in trial performance at short latency. Local evoked activity is greatest in response to smallest errors and influences the programming of subsequent movements. Accordingly, motor parameters are least likely to change after the greatest evoked responses so that accurately performed trials tend to precede other accurate trials. This relationship is disrupted by electrical stimulation of the nucleus at high frequency. Thus, the human subthalamic nucleus is involved in feedback-based learning.

Improgan is a non-opioid analgesic which does not act at known histamine or cannabinoid receptors. Because improgan antinociception is blocked by low doses of a cannabinoid CB1 antagonist, the present experiments determined if development of cannabinoid tolerance in mice would alter improgan antinociception. Twice-daily injections of Delta9-tetrahydrocannabinol (THC, 10 mg/kg, s.c.) for 3.5 days induced 47-54% and 42-56% reductions in cannabinoid (WIN 55,212-2, 20 microg, i.c.v.) and improgan (30 microg, i.c.v.) antinociception, respectively, as compared with responses from vehicle-treated groups. Because improgan lacks cannabinoid-like side effects in rats, and does not act directly on cannabinoid CB1 receptors, the finding that development of cannabinoid tolerance reduces improgan antinociception suggests that this drug may release endocannabinoids, or activate novel cannabinoid sites. Either possibility offers the potential for developing new types of analgesics.
Infectious diseases are practically represented by models with multiple states and complex transition rules corresponding to, for example, birth, death, infection, recovery, disease progression, and quarantine. In addition, networks underlying infection events are often much more complex than described by meanfield equations or regular lattices. In models with simple transition rules such as the SIS and SIR models, heterogeneous contact rates are known to decrease epidemic thresholds. We analyse steady states of various multi-state disease propagation models with heterogeneous contact rates. In many models, heterogeneity simply decreases epidemic thresholds. However, in models with competing pathogens and mutation, coexistence of different pathogens for small infection rates requires network-independent conditions in addition to heterogeneity in contact rates. Furthermore, models without spontaneous neighbor-independent state transitions, such as cyclically competing species, do not show heterogeneity effects.
Inflammatory myopathies (IM) are acquired diseases of skeletal muscle comprising dermatomyositis (DM), polymyositis (PM), and inclusion-body myositis (IBM). Immunosuppressive therapies, usually beneficial for DM and PM, are poorly effective in IBM. We report the isolation and characterization of mesoangioblasts, vessel-associated stem cells, from diagnostic muscle biopsies of IM. The number of cells isolated, proliferation rate and lifespan, markers expression, and ability to differentiate into smooth muscle do not differ among normal and IM mesoangioblasts. At variance with normal, DM and PM mesoangioblasts, cells isolated from IBM, fail to differentiate into skeletal myotubes. These data correlate with lack in connective tissue of IBM muscle of alkaline phosphatase (ALP)-positive cells, conversely dramatically increased in PM and DM. A myogenic inhibitory basic helix-loop-helix factor B3 is highly expressed in IBM mesoangioblasts. Indeed, silencing this gene or overexpressing MyoD rescues the myogenic defect of IBM mesoangioblasts, opening novel cell-based therapeutic strategies for this crippling disorder.
Muscle activity contributes to muscle development and function largely by means of regulated gene expression. Many genes crucial to neuromuscular synapse formation, such as MuSK and nAChRs, are induced before muscle innervation or after muscle denervation, and this induction requires expression of the E-box binding, basic helix-loop-helix muscle-specific transcription factor, myogenin (Mgn). The mechanism by which muscle activity is coupled to gene expression is poorly defined. Here we report that inhibition of histone deacetylase (HDAC) activity attenuates the induction of activity-regulated genes in aneural myotubes and adult denervated muscle. The effect of HDAC inhibitors requires new protein synthesis, suggesting HDACs may regulate the expression of a Mgn transcriptional repressor. We identified Dach2 as a Mgn transcriptional repressor whose expression is dramatically reduced in an HDAC-dependent manner in developing aneural myotubes or adult denervated muscle. Dach2 overexpression in denervated muscle suppressed Mgn, nAChR, and MuSK gene induction, whereas Dach2 knockdown induced Mgn gene expression in innervated muscle and relieved Mgn promoter inhibition by HDAC inhibitors. Thus, a HDAC-Dach2-myogenin signaling pathway has been identified to decode nerve activity and control muscle gene expression in developing and adult skeletal muscle.
Polysialic acid (PSA), a large cell-surface carbohydrate that regulates cell interactions, is used during vertebrate development to promote precursor cell migration and axon path-finding. The induction of PSA expression in damaged adult CNS tissues could help them to rebuild by creating conditions permissive for architectural remodeling. This possibility has been explored in two contexts, the regeneration of axons and the recruitment of endogenous neural precursors to a lesion. Glial scars that form at CNS injury sites block axon regeneration. It has been found that transfection of scar astrocytes by a viral vector encoding polysialyltransferase leads to sustained expression of high levels of PSA. With this treatment, a substantial portion of severed corticospinal tract axon processes were able to grow through a spinal injury site. In the studies of precursor cell migration to a cortical lesion, it was found that induced PSA expression in a path extending from the subventricular zone to a lesion near the cortical surface increased recruitment of BrdU/nestin-positive cells along the path and into the injury site. These displaced precursors were able to differentiate in a regionally appropriate manner. These findings suggest that induced PSA expression can be used as a strategy for promoting tissue repair involving both replacement of cells and rebuilding of neural connections.
To examine the neural basis of route knowledge by which one can reach one's destination, we recorded the activity of 580 neurons in the monkey medial parietal region (MPR) while monkeys actively navigated through a virtual environment. One hundred eighty of these neurons (31%) showed significant responses to the monkeys' movements in the virtual environment. Of these responsive neurons, 77% (139/180) showed responses associated with a specific movement at a specific location (navigation neurons), 8% (14/180) showed responses associated with a specific movement (movement-selective neurons), and the remaining 27 neurons (15%) were nonselective. We found navigation neurons whose responses to the same movement at the same location were modulated depending on the route that the monkey was currently taking, that is, in a route-selective manner (32 of 59 tested neurons among 139 navigation neurons, route-selective navigation neurons). The reversible inactivation of MPR neurons by muscimol resulted in a monkey becoming lost during the navigation task trial. These results suggest that MPR plays a critical role in route-based navigation by integrating location information and self-movement information.

Spontaneous discharge of basal ganglia neurons is often analyzed with time- or frequency-domain methods. However, it has been shown that sequences of inter-spike interval series are not fully described by such linear procedures. We therefore carried out a characterization of the nonlinear features of spontaneous discharge of neurons in the primate basal ganglia. We studied the spontaneous activity of neurons in the subthalamic nucleus (22 cells), as well as neurons in the external and internal pallidal segments (53 and 39 cells, respectively), recorded with standard extracellular recording methods in two awake Rhesus monkeys. As a measure of the statistical irregularity of neuronal discharge, we compared the approximate entropy of inter-spike interval sequences with that of shuffled representations of the same data. In all three basal ganglia structures, approximately 95% of the original data showed lower approximate entropy values than the shuffled data, suggesting a temporal organization in the original sequence. Fano factor analysis confirmed the presence of a temporal organization of inter-spike interval sequences, and indicated the presence of self-similarity in the great majority of them. In addition, Hurst exponent analysis showed that the inter-spike interval series are persistent. Hurst exponents often differ between short and long scaling ranges. Subsequent principal component analyses allowed us to identify three distinct patterns of the temporal evolution of inter-spike interval sequences in the phase space. These types were found in varying distributions in all three nuclei. Our analyses demonstrate that the discharge of most neurons in the basal ganglia of awake monkeys has nonlinear features that may be important for information coding in the basal ganglia.
Recent discoveries have revealed that glutamatergic neurotransmission in the central nervous system is mediated by a dynamic interplay between neurons and astrocytes. To enhance our understanding of this process, the study of extracellular glutamate is crucial. At present, microdialysis is the most frequently used analytical technique to monitor extracellular glutamate levels directly in the brain. However, the neuronal and physiological origin of the detected glutamate levels is questioned as they do not fulfil the classical release criteria for exocytotic release, such as calcium dependency or response to the sodium channel blocker tetrodotoxine (TTX). It is hypothesized that an analytical technique with a higher spatial and temporal resolution is required. Glutamate microsensors provide a promising analytical solution to meet this requirement. In the present study, we applied a 10 micro m diameter hydrogel-coated glutamate microsensor to monitor extracellular glutamate levels in the striatum of anesthetized rats. To explore the potential of the microsensor, different pharmacological agents were injected in the vicinity of the sensor at an approximate distance of 100 micro m. It was observed that KCl, exogenous glutamate, kainate and the reuptake inhibitor DL-threo-beta-benzyloxyaspartate (DL-TBOA) increased the extracellular glutamate levels significantly. TTX decreased the basal extracellular glutamate levels approximately 90%, which indicates that the microsensor is capable of detecting neuronally derived glutamate. This is one of the first studies in which a microsensor is applied in vivo on a routine base, and it is concluded that microsensor research can contribute significantly to improve our understanding of the physiology of glutamatergic neurotransmission in the brain.
We investigated, during the first postnatal week, a voltage-gated sodium current (INa) transiently expressed in neonatal utricular hair cells in rats raised in hypergravity. Its electrophysiological properties did not differ significantly from those recorded from rats raised in normal gravity, but a delay was observed in their developmental expression. In normal gravity conditions, INa expression is maximal at postnatal days 1-2, conferring on the hair cells the ability to fire action potentials, and is down-regulated during the first postnatal week, whereas in hypergravity conditions, the down-regulation is delayed by 4 days. This is the first demonstration showing that development under enhanced gravity affects the transient excitability phase that characterizes neonate utricular hair cells, by delaying a critical period of vestibular development.
Apolipoprotein E-epsilon4 is the main known genetic risk factor for Alzheimer's disease. Functional abnormalities in the parietal cortex have been reported for Alzheimer's disease patients and also for those at risk. Hence, a critical question is whether measurements of parietal cortex integrity may predict negative outcome among at-risk persons. We studied nondemented apolipoprotein E-epsilon4 carriers and found a significant relationship between parietal blood-oxygen-level-dependent functional magnetic resonance imaging response during a word categorization task and subsequent episodic memory performance. Thus, the results show that parietal cortex alterations predict memory decline in nondemented apolipoprotein E-epsilon4 carriers, and hence likely progression to Alzheimer's disease.
The small G protein RhoA and its downstream effector Rho-kinase/ROCK2 play an important role in regulation of various vasculature cellular functions. Nitric oxide (NO) produced by endothelial NO synthase (eNOS) is an important mediator of vascular homeostasis and cerebral blood flow. Using the human endothelial cell line HUVEC, the present study investigated the role of RhoA and Rho-kinase in endothelial eNOS protein expression under hypoxic conditions as an in vitro model of ischemia. RhoA protein levels in HUVEC were low under normoxic conditions, but were significantly increased after 5h of hypoxia. Endothelial Rho-kinase expression was not detected until after 3h of hypoxia; such expression remained significantly increased after 5h. On the other hand, endothelial eNOS expression was similar after 3h of hypoxia, but was significantly decreased after 5h. The hypoxia-induced decrease in eNOS expression was significantly enhanced by expression of the constitutively active form of RhoA and significantly inhibited by suppression of RhoA expression by small interfering RNA. The hypoxia-induced decrease in eNOS expression was significantly inhibited when endogenous Rho-kinase activation was inhibited by Rho-binding domain expression. Furthermore, the hypoxia-induced decrease in eNOS expression was significantly enhanced by expression of the constitutively active form of Rho-kinase. Since expression and activation of RhoA and Rho-kinase inhibit eNOS expression in endothelial cells, attempts to down-regulate RhoA and Rho-kinase by multiple drugs, such as statins or Rho-kinase inhibitors, might provide endothelial and cardiovascular benefits through upregulation of eNOS.
Exercise exerts antidepressant effects in humans and rodent models of affective disorders. These effects may be mediated by the upregulation of endogenous factors that exert antidepressant actions. The physiological functions and behavioral actions of the neuropeptide galanin (GAL) suggest antidepressant activity. Previous studies have shown that various modes of exercise elevate GAL gene expression in the locus coeruleus (LC) in rats. The present experiments examined the interaction between voluntary exercise and antidepressant pharmacotherapy. Male Sprague-Dawley rats were provided access to activity wheels (exercise condition) or inoperative wheels (sedentary condition) for 28 days. Rats in each group were injected with clomipramine (10mg/kg/day) or vehicle throughout this period (for 3 weeks). Prepro-GAL mRNA in the LC was measured by in situ hybridization histochemistry. Exercise and clomipramine treatment significantly elevated GAL gene expression, though prepro-GAL mRNA levels in rats receiving both interventions did not differ from sedentary controls that received vehicle. Prepro-GAL mRNA levels were significantly correlated with running distance. The results further implicate a role for GAL in the antidepressant effects of exercise and pharmacotherapy, though the mechanisms through which these treatments influence GAL gene expression appear to differ significantly.
Previous studies have shown that administration of nicotinamide (Vitamin B(3)) in animal models of traumatic brain injury (TBI) and ischemia significantly reduced the size of infarction or injury and improved functional recovery. The present study evaluated the ability of nicotinamide to provide acute neuroprotection and edema reduction following TBI. Groups of rats were assigned to nicotinamide (500mg/kg) or saline (1.0ml/kg) treatment conditions and received contusion injuries or sham surgeries. Drug treatment was administered 15min following injury. Brains were harvested 24h later and either processed for histology or water content. Frozen sections were stained with the degenerating neuron stain (Fluoro-Jade B) (FJ) and cell counts were performed at the site of injury. Additional brains were processed for water content (a measure of injury-induced edema). Results of this study showed that administration of nicotinamide following TBI significantly reduced the number of FJ(+) neurons in the injured cortex compared to saline-treated animals. Examination of the water content of the brains also revealed that administration of nicotinamide significantly attenuated the amount of water compared to saline-treated animals in the injured cortex. These results indicate that nicotinamide administration significantly reduced neuronal death and attenuated cerebral edema following injury. The current findings suggest that nicotinamide significantly modulates acute pathophysiological processes following injury and that this may account for its beneficial effects on recovery of function following injury.
Dopaminergic human neuroblastoma SH-SY5Y cells were stably transformed to increase expression of alpha-synuclein, a Parkinson's disease-related protein. Transformed cells were more resistant to oxidative insults, showing a cytoprotective role of alpha-synuclein. The expression of redox chaperonins (DJ-1, HSP70, and 14-3-3) was evaluated by Western blotting. Expression of alpha-synuclein reduced HSP70 levels even in the presence of dopamine, with a twofold increase of DJ-1 in the absence of oxidants. DJ-1 is significantly reduced by dopamine, and even more by dopamine and Cu(II). Increased alpha-synuclein expression did not affect 14-3-3, although dopamine increased its level by 60% in wild-type cells. alpha-Synuclein not only upregulated DJ-1, but also shifted all DJ-1 forms to a single spot at pI=5.7 not observed in wild-type cells. Dopamine gradually restored the distribution of DJ-1 forms to a situation similar to wild-type cells, with the form at pI=6.1 progressively enriched under oxidative conditions.
Dr. Mircea Steriade passed away at age 82. In this obituary I briefly describe some of the most important achievements of his remarkable life and I express deepest sympathies to his family members, collaborators and trainees.
Neuronal gap junctions are abundant in both outer and inner plexiform layers of the mammalian retina. In the inner plexiform layer (IPL), ultrastructurally-identified gap junctions were reported primarily in the functionally-defined and anatomically-distinct ON sublamina, with few reported in the OFF sublamina. We used freeze-fracture replica immunogold labeling and confocal microscopy to quantitatively analyze the morphologies and distributions of neuronal gap junctions in the IPL of adult rat and mouse retina. Under &quot;baseline&quot; conditions (photopic illumination/general anesthesia), 649 neuronal gap junctions immunogold-labeled for connexin36 were identified in rat IPL, of which 375 were photomapped to OFF vs. ON sublaminae. In contrast to previous reports, the volume-density of gap junctions was equally abundant in both sublaminae. Five distinctive morphologies of gap junctions were identified: conventional crystalline and non-crystalline &quot;plaques&quot; (71% and 3%), plus unusual &quot;string&quot; (14%), &quot;ribbon&quot; (7%) and &quot;reticular&quot; (2%) forms. Plaque and reticular gap junctions were distributed throughout the IPL. However, string and ribbon gap junctions were restricted to the OFF sublamina, where they represented 48% of gap junctions in that layer. In string and ribbon junctions, curvilinear strands of connexons were dispersed over 5 to 20 times the area of conventional plaques having equal numbers of connexons. To define morphologies of gap junctions under different light-adaptation conditions, we examined an additional 1150 gap junctions from rats and mice prepared after 30 min of photopic, mesopic and scotopic illumination, with and without general anesthesia. Under these conditions, string and ribbon gap junctions remained abundant in the OFF sublamina and absent in the ON sublamina. Abundant gap junctions in the OFF sublamina of these two rodents with rod-dominant retinas revealed previously-undescribed but extensive pathways for inter-neuronal communication; and the wide dispersion of connexons in string and ribbon gap junctions suggests unique structural features of gap junctional coupling in the OFF vs. ON sublamina.
Autoradiography analysis of D1, D2 and D3 dopamine receptors and in situ hybridization analysis of mRNA for dopamine and cAMP regulated phosphoprotein of 32 kDa (DARPP-32) were performed in brains of nave Roman high avoidance (RHA) and Roman low avoidance (RLA) inbred rats. These strains, genetically selected for high (RHA) or extremely low (RLA) active avoidance acquisition in the two-way shuttle box, differ in indices of dopaminergic activity along with sensation/novelty and substance-seeking behavioral profiles. The present study shows no differences in D2 receptor binding between the two strains. In contrast, the D1 and D3 receptor binding in the nucleus accumbens was higher in RHA-I rats, whereas RLA-I rats show higher D3 binding in the Calleja islands. Together with previous evidence showing behavioral and presynaptic differences related to the dopamine system, the present results suggest a higher dopaminergic tone at the nucleus accumbens shell in RHA-I rats. Besides, the comparison of the expression pattern of DARPP-32 mRNA with that of dopamine receptor binding revealed a mismatch in some amygdala nuclei. In some cortical structures (prelimbic and cingulate cortices, the dentate gyrus) as well as in the central amygdala, RHA-I rats showed higher DARPP-32 mRNA expression than RLA-I rats. Hence, RHA-I and RLA-I rats may be a useful tool to identify dopamine-related mechanisms that predispose to drug and alcohol dependence.
Fish CNS neurons can repair their axons following nerve injury, whereas mammalian CNS neurons cannot regenerate, and become apoptotic within 1-2 weeks after the nerve lesion. One explanation for these differences is that one, or several molecules are upregulated in fish CNS neurons during nerve regeneration, and this same molecule is downregulated in mammalian CNS neurons before the development of apoptosis caused by nerve injury. A molecule satisfying these criteria might successfully rescue and repair the mammalian CNS neurons. In this study, we looked for such a candidate molecule from goldfish retinas. Transglutaminase derived from goldfish retina (TG(R)) was characterized as a regenerating molecule after optic nerve injury. A full-length cDNA for TG(R) was isolated from the goldfish retinal cDNA library prepared from axotomized retinas. Levels of TG(R) mRNA and protein increased only in the retinal ganglion cells (RGCs) between 10 and 40 days after optic nerve transection. Recombinant TG(R) protein enhanced neurite outgrowth from adult fish RGCs in culture. Specific interference RNA and antibodies for TG(R) inhibited neurite outgrowth both in vitro and in vivo. In contrast, the level of TG(R) protein decreased in rat RGCs within 1-3 days after nerve injury. Furthermore, the addition of recombinant TG(R) to retinal cultures induced striking neurite outgrowth from adult rat RGCs. These molecular and cellular data strongly suggest that TG(R) promotes axonal elongation at the surface of injured RGCs after optic nerve injury.
Members of various transport protein families including ATP-binding cassette transporters and solute carriers were shown to be expressed in brain capillaries, choroid plexus, astrocytes or neurons, controlling drug and metabolite distribution to and from the brain. However, data are currently very limited on how the expression of these transport systems is affected by damage to the brain such as stroke. Therefore we studied the expression of four selected transporters, P-glycoprotein (Mdr1a/b; Abcb1a/b), Mrp5 (Abcc5), Bcrp (Abcg2), and Oatp2 (Slc21a5) in a rat model for stroke. Transporter expression was analyzed by real-time polymerase chain reaction in the periinfarcted region and protein localization and cellular phenotyping were done by immunohistochemistry and confocal immunofluorescence microscopy. After stroke, P-glycoprotein staining was detected in endothelial cells of disintegrated capillaries and by day 14 in newly generated blood vessels. There was no significant difference, however, in the Mdr1a mRNA amount in the periinfarcted region compared with the contralateral site. For Bcrp, a significant mRNA up-regulation was observed from days 3-14. This up-regulation was followed by the protein as confirmed by quantitative immunohistochemistry. Oatp2, located in the vascular endothelium, was also up-regulated at day 14. For Mrp5, an up-regulation was observed in neurons in the periinfarcted region (day 14). In conclusion, after stroke the transport proteins were up-regulated with a maximum at day 14, a time point that coincides with behavioral recuperation. The study further suggests Bcrp as a pronounced marker for the regenerative process and a possible functional role of Mrp5 in surviving neurons.
Nestin is an intermediate filament protein serving as a marker for neuroprogenitor and stem cells. Here we report that a cluster of previously unrecognized nestin immunoreactive (nestin-ir) neurons was located in the medial septum-diagonal band of Broca (MS-DBB) of the basal forebrain in adult rats. Nestin-ir neurons were exclusively located in the MS-DBB and intermingled with choline acetyltransferase-ir (ChAT-ir), parvalbumin-ir (PV-ir), or nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate (NADPH)-diaphorase reactive (NADPHd-reactive) neurons. However, there was no colocalization between nestin-ir and PV-ir in single neurons in MS-DBB; only about 35% of nestin-ir neurons were ChAT-ir, and 8%-12% of nestin-ir neurons were NADPHd-reactive. Morphologically, nestin-ir neurons showed a larger size of somata than that of ChAT-ir or PV-ir neurons and the distribution of nestin-ir neurons spread across the rostro-caudal extent of the MS-DBB. Moreover, retrograde tracing revealed that a significant portion of these nestin-ir neurons projected to the thalamus and hippocampus. These results, for the first time, provide strong evidence that there exists a cluster of previously unrecognized nestin-ir neurons in MS-DBB of the basal forebrain in adult rats and that these nestin-ir neurons are distinguishable from ChAT-ir, PV-ir, and NADPHd-reactive neurons.
Signaling through G-protein-coupled receptors is modulated by a family of regulator of G protein signaling (RGS) proteins that have been implicated in several neurological and psychiatric disorders. Defining the detailed expression patterns and developmental regulation of RGS proteins has been hampered by an absence of antibodies useful for mapping. We have utilized bacterial artificial chromosome (BAC) methods to create transgenic mice that express GFP under the control of endogenous regulator of G-protein signaling 4 (RGS4) enhancer elements. This report focuses on expression patterns in the developing and mature cerebral cortex. Based on reporter distribution, RGS4 is expressed by birth in neurons across all cortical domains, but in different patterns that suggest region- and layer-specific regulation. Peak expression typically occurs before puberty, with complex down-regulation by adulthood. Deep and superficial neurons, in particular, vary in their patterns across developmental age and region and, in primary sensory cortices, layer IV neurons exhibit low or no expression of the GFP reporter. These data suggest that altering RGS4 function will produce a complex neuronal phenotype with cell- and subdomain-specificity in the cerebral cortex.
The neurons of the lateral hypothalamus that contain hypocretin/orexin (hcrt/orx) are thought to promote arousal through the excitatory action they exert on the multiple areas to which they project within the CNS. We show here that the hcrt/orx peptides can also exert a strong action on the amygdala, a structure known for its implication in emotional aspects of behavior. Indeed, the hcrt/orx peptides, applied in acute rat brain slices, excite a specific class of &quot;low threshold burst&quot; neurons in the central medial (CeM) nucleus which is considered as a major output of the amygdala. These excitatory effects are postsynaptic, mediated by Hcrt2/OX2 receptors and result from the closure of a potassium conductance. They occur on a class of neurons that are also excited by vasopressin acting through V1a receptors. These results suggest that the hcrt/orx system can act through the amygdala to augment arousal and evoke the autonomic and behavioral responses associated with fear, stress or emotion.
The midbrain is essential for prepulse inhibition (PPI) of the startle reflex, but the exact neural circuits for PPI are not yet determined. Electrical stimulation of the superior colliculus (SC) or pedunculopontine tegmentum was used to characterize the neurons and pathways that mediate PPI and the activation of startle that also occurs at higher currents in the same sites. Startle was inhibited by prepulses in most, but not all SC sites, with the lowest intensity sites in intermediate layers of SC. PPI latencies in SC sites were 4-6 ms longer than in inferior colliculus, intercollicular nucleus or pedunculopontine sites. Contrary to previous serial models, there must be two parallel midbrain pathways for PPI, a faster auditory pathway from inferior colliculus to pedunculopontine tegmentum, and a slower multimodal SC output for PPI. Double-pulse stimulation of SC sites shows that PPI results from direct stimulation of neurons with moderate refractory periods (0.4-1.0 ms), similar to SC neurons that mediate contraversive turning responses. By contrast, startle activation occurring at higher currents in all SC sites (even sites where PPI could not be elicited) results from stimulation of very short refractory period neurons (0.3-0.5 ms) and very long refractory period neurons (1.0-2.0 ms), with startle inhibition often found from 0.5-1.0 ms. Startle activation appears to result from stimulation of short refractory period neurons in deep SC layers that mediate fear-potentiated startle, plus long refractory period substrates in more dorsal SC sites.
The raphe nucleus has a variety of physiological functions, including emotion, regulation of skeletal muscle motoneurons, spinal transmission of nociceptive signals, sleep, respiration, gastric motility, and cardiovascular function. Recent evidence has shown that centrally administered serotonin has modulatory effects on micturition function, and that decreased brain serotonin might underlie depression and an overactive bladder. We applied high-frequency stimulation (HFS; 0.2-ms duration, 100 Hz) in the raphe nucleus and the adjacent midline area in 20 supracollicular decerebrate cats, which mostly elicited inhibition of the micturition reflex. The effective amplitude of the electrical stimulation for evoking inhibitory responses was less than 50 muA. We also examined single neuronal activities in the raphe nucleus in response to isovolumetric spontaneous micturition reflexes. In total, 79 neurons were recorded in the raphe nucleus that were related to urinary storage/micturition cycles. Of the neurons recorded, the most common were tonic storage neurons (48%), followed by tonic micturition neurons (28%), phasic storage neurons (18%), and phasic micturition neurons (6%). In addition to the tonic/phasic as well as storage/micturition classification, the neurons showed diverse discharge patterns: augmenting, constant and decrementing, with the constant discharge pattern being most common. Among neurons in the raphe nucleus, the neurons with a decrementing discharge pattern were concentrated in the rostral portion, whereas the augmenting and constant neurons existed diffusely. The storage and micturition neurons were intermingled in the rostral portion, whereas they were separate in the caudal portion. In conclusion, the results of the present study indicate that HFS of the raphe area inhibits the micturition reflex and that there are micturition-related neuronal firings in the raphe area in cats, suggesting that the raphe nucleus is involved in neural control of micturition.
Neuroinflammation is reliably associated with the pathogenesis of a number of neurodegenerative diseases, and can be detected by the presence of activated microglia. Neuroinflammation can be induced by chronic lipopolysaccharide (LPS) infusion into the 4th ventricle of the rat resulting in region-selective microglia activation and impaired hippocampal-dependent memory. Furthermore, this treatment results in altered behaviorally-induced expression of the immediate early gene Arc, indicating altered network activity. LPS is known to activate microglia directly, leading to increased glutamate release, and in enhanced N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA) -dependent signaling. Taken together, the foregoing suggests that decreasing NMDA receptor activation during early stages of chronic neuroinflammation should reduce a) microglia activation, b) overexpression of Arc, and c) spatial memory deficits. Memantine, a low to moderate affinity open channel uncompetitive NMDA receptor antagonist, at low doses was used here to test these hypotheses. Rats were chronically infused into the 4th ventricle for 28 days with LPS alone, vehicle alone (via osmotic minipump) or LPS and memantine (10 mg/kg/day memantine s.c.). The results reported here demonstrate that memantine reduces OX6-immunolabeling for activated microglia, spares resident microglia, returns Arc (activity-regulated cytoskeletal associated protein, protein) -expressing neuronal populations to control levels (as revealed by Arc immunolabeling and fluorescence in situ hybridization), and ameliorates the spatial memory impairments produced by LPS alone. These data indicate that memantine therapy at low doses, recreating plasma levels similar to those of therapeutic doses in human, acts in part through its ability to reduce the effects of neuroinflammation, resulting in normal gene expression patterns and spatial learning. Combined, these findings suggest that low, therapeutically relevant doses of memantine delivered early in the development of neuroinflammation-influenced diseases may confer neural and cognitive protection.
Perineuronal nets (PNs) are lattice-like condensations of the extracellular matrix (ECM) that envelop synapses and decorate the surface of subsets of neurons in the CNS. Previous work has suggested that, despite the fact that PNs themselves are not visualized until later in development, some PN component molecules are expressed in the rodent CNS even before synaptogenesis. In the adult mammalian brain, monoclonal antibody Cat-315 recognizes a glycoform of aggrecan, a major component of PNs. In primary cortical cultures, a Cat-315-reactive chondroitin sulfate proteoglycan (CSPG) is also expressed on neuronal surfaces and is secreted into culture media as early as 24 h after plating. In this study, we show that in primary cortical cultures, the Cat-315 CSPG detected in early neural development is expressed in extrasynaptic sites prior to synapse formation. This suggests that ECM components in the CNS, as in the neuromuscular junction (NMJ), may prepattern neuronal surfaces prior to innervation. We further show that while the Cat-315-reactive carbohydrate decorates aggrecan in the adult, it decorates a different CSPG in the developing CNS. Using receptor protein tyrosine phosphatase beta (RPTPbeta/protein tyrosine phosphatase zeta) knock-out mice and immunoprecipitation techniques, we demonstrate here that in the developing rodent brain Cat-315 recognizes RPTPbeta isoforms. Our further examination of the Cat-315 epitope suggests that it is an O-mannose linked epitope in the HNK-1 family. The presence of the Cat-315 reactive carbohydrate on different PN components--RPTPbeta and aggrecan--at different stages of synapse development suggests a potential role for this neuron-specific carbohydrate motif in synaptogenesis.
A large family of regulator of G protein signaling (RGS) proteins modulates signaling through G-protein-coupled receptors. Previous studies have implicated RGS4 as a vulnerability gene in schizophrenia. To begin to understand structure-function relationships, we have utilized bacterial artificial chromosome (BAC) methods to create transgenic mice that express green fluorescent protein (GFP) under the control of endogenous RGS4 enhancer elements, circumventing the lack of suitable antibodies for analysis of dynamic patterns of expression. This report follows from the accompanying mapping paper in cerebral cortex, with a focus on developmental and mature expression patterns in subcortical telencephalic, diencephalic and brainstem areas. Based on reporter distribution, the data suggest that alterations in RGS4 function will engender a complex phenotype of increased and decreased neuronal output, with developmental, regional, and cellular specificity.
Pax6, a member of the highly conserved developmental Pax gene family, plays a crucial role in early eye development and continues to be expressed in adult retinal ganglion cells (RGCs). Here we have used Western blots and immunohistochemistry to investigate the expression of Pax6 in the formation and refinement of topographic projections during optic nerve regeneration in zebrafish and lizard. In zebrafish with natural (12-h light/dark cycle) illumination, Pax6 expression in RGCs was decreased during axon outgrowth and increased during the restoration of the retinotectal map. Rearing fish in stroboscopic illumination to prevent retinotopic refinement resulted in a prolonged decrease in Pax6 levels; return to natural light conditions resulted in map refinement and restoration of normal Pax6 levels. In lizard, RGC axons spontaneously regenerate but remain in a persistent state of regrowth and do not restore topography; visual training during regeneration, however, allows a stabilization of connections and return of topography. Pax6 was persistently decreased in untrained animals but remained increased in trained ones. In both species, changes in expression were not due to cell division or cell death. The results suggest that decreased Pax6 expression is permissive for axon regeneration and extensive searching, while higher levels of Pax6 are associated with restoration of topography.
During development, several genes that specify neuronal subtype identity are expressed in distinct dorsoventral domains of the spinal cord and hindbrain. Cadherin-7 (Cad7), a member of the cadherin family of adhesion molecules, is expressed by radial glia in a dorsal domain of the spinal cord basal plate in chicken. To study the regulation of the Cad7 gene, we ectopically expressed two known dorsoventral patterning genes, Shh and Pax7, in the caudal neural tube and in two brain regions at different stages of development by in vivo electroporation. Results showed that Shh regulated the expression of Cad7 by radial glia in a concentration-dependent manner. Shh induced or repressed the expression of Cad7, at low and high concentrations, respectively. Furthermore, Pax7 inhibited the expression of Cad7. These results are compatible with a role of Shh and Pax7 in regulating endogenous Cad7 expression during spinal cord and hindbrain development. Our data show, for the first time, that Shh can regulate the expression not only of other gene regulatory factors, but also of Cad7, a morphoregulatory molecule that plays a role in axon elongation and neural circuit formation.
Cholinergic and GABAergic neurons in the medial septal/vertical limb of the diagonal band of Broca (MS/vDB) area project to the hippocampus and constitute the septohippocampal pathway, which has been implicated in learning and memory. There is also evidence for extrinsic and intrinsic glutamatergic neurons in the MS/vDB, which by regulating septohippocampal neurons can influence hippocampal functions. The potential role of glutamatergic N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptors within the MS/vDB for spatial and emotional learning was studied using the water maze and step-through passive avoidance (PA) tasks, which are both hippocampal-dependent. Blockade of septal NMDA receptors by infusion of the competitive NMDA receptor antagonist D-(-)-2-amino-5-phosphonopentanoic acid (D-AP5) (0.3-5 microg/rat), infused 15 min prior to training, impaired spatial learning and memory at the 5 microg dose of D-AP5, while doses of 0.3 and 1 microg per rat had no effect. The impairment in spatial learning appears not to be caused by sensorimotor or motivational disturbances, or anxiogenic-like behavior. Thus, d-AP5-treated rats were not impaired in swim performance or visuospatial abilities and spent more time in the open arms of the elevated plus-maze. In the PA task, intraseptal D-AP5 infused 15 min before training impaired retention as examined 24 h after training. This impairment was observed already at the 0.3 microg dose, suggesting that NMDA receptors within the MS/vDB may be more important for emotional than spatial memory. In summary, the present data indicate that changes in septal glutamate transmission and NMDA receptor activity can influence activity-dependent synaptic plasticity in the hippocampus and thereby learning and memory.
AMPA-type glutamate receptor (GluR) channels provide fast excitatory synaptic transmission in the CNS, but mediate also cytotoxic insults. It could be shown that AMPA-type GluR channel-mediated chronic excitotoxicity leads to an increased intracellular calcium concentration and plays an important role in neurodegenerative diseases like for example amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS). As calcium is an important mediator of various processes in the cell and calcium signals have to be very precise in the temporospatial resolution, excessive intracellular calcium increases can seriously impair cell function. It is still unclear if AMPA-type receptors can directly interact with the intracellular calcium homeostasis or if other mechanisms are involved in this process. The objective of this study was therefore to investigate the calcium homeostasis in rat motoneurons under physiological stimulation of AMPA-type GluR channels using calcium imaging techniques and patch-clamp recordings simultaneously. It was found that spontaneous excitatory postsynaptic currents of cultured motoneurons did not elicit significant intracellular calcium transients. Large intracellular calcium transients occurred only when preceding fast sodium currents were observed. Pharmacological experiments showed that activation of AMPA-type GluR channels during synaptic transmission has a great functional impact on the calcium homeostasis in motoneurons as all kinds of activity was completely blocked by application of the selective kainate- and AMPA-type GluR channel blocker 6-cyano-7-nitroquinoxaline-2,3-dione (CNQX). Furthermore we suggest from our experiments that calcium transients of several hundred milliseconds' duration result from release of calcium from the endoplasmic reticulum via activation of ryanodine receptors (calcium-induced calcium release, CICR). Our results help to understand the regulatory function of AMPA-type GluR channels in the intracellular calcium homeostasis which is known to be disturbed in neurodegenerative diseases.
Hereditary creatine transporter deficiency causes brain damage, despite the brain having the enzymes to synthesize creatine. Such damage occurring despite an endogenous synthesis is not easily explained. This condition is incurable, because creatine may not be delivered to the brain without its transporter. Creatine-derived compounds that crossed the blood-brain barrier in a transporter-independent fashion would be useful in the therapy of hereditary creatine transporter deficiency, and possibly also in neuroprotection against brain anoxia or ischemia. We tested the double hypothesis that: (1) the creatine carrier is needed to make creatine cross the plasma membrane of brain cells and (2) creatine-derived molecules may cross this plasma membrane independently of the creatine carrier. In in vitro mouse hippocampal slices, incubation with creatine increased creatine and phosphocreatine content of the tissue. Inhibition of the creatine transporter with 3-guanidinopropionic acid (GPA) dose-dependently prevented this increase. Incubation with creatine benzyl ester (CrOBzl) or phosphocreatine-Mg-complex acetate (PCr-Mg-CPLX) increased tissue creatine content, not phosphocreatine. This increase was not prevented by GPA. Thus, the creatine transporter is required for creatine uptake through the plasma membrane. Since there is a strong indication that creatine in the brain is mainly synthesized by glial cells and transferred to neurons, this might explain why hereditary transporter deficiency is attended by severe brain damage despite the possibility of an endogenous synthesis. CrOBzl and PCr-Mg-CPLX cross the plasma membrane in a transporter-independent way, and might be useful in the therapy of hereditary creatine transporter deficiency. They may also prove useful in the therapy of brain anoxia or ischemia.
A recent epidemiological study suggested that higher caffeine intake over decades reduces the risk of Alzheimer's disease (AD). The present study sought to determine any long-term protective effects of dietary caffeine intake in a controlled longitudinal study involving AD transgenic mice. Caffeine (an adenosine receptor antagonist) was added to the drinking water of amyloid precursor protein, Swedish mutation (APPsw) transgenic (Tg) mice between 4 and 9 months of age, with behavioral testing done during the final 6 weeks of treatment. The average daily intake of caffeine per mouse (1.5 mg) was the human equivalent of 500 mg caffeine, the amount typically found in five cups of coffee per day. Across multiple cognitive tasks of spatial learning/reference memory, working memory, and recognition/identification, Tg mice given caffeine performed significantly better than Tg control mice and similar to non-transgenic controls. In both behaviorally-tested and aged Tg mice, long-term caffeine administration resulted in lower hippocampal beta-amyloid (Abeta) levels. Expression of both Presenilin 1 (PS1) and beta-secretase (BACE) was reduced in caffeine-treated Tg mice, indicating decreased Abeta production as a likely mechanism of caffeine's cognitive protection. The ability of caffeine to reduce Abeta production was confirmed in SweAPP N2a neuronal cultures, wherein concentration-dependent decreases in both Abeta1-40 and Abeta1-42 were observed. Although adenosine A(1) or A(2A) receptor densities in cortex or hippocampus were not affected by caffeine treatment, brain adenosine levels in Tg mice were restored back to normal by dietary caffeine and could be involved in the cognitive protection provided by caffeine. Our data demonstrate that moderate daily intake of caffeine may delay or reduce the risk of AD.
The ventrolateral funiculus (VLF) in the spinal cord contains important ascending and descending pathways related to locomotion and interlimb coordination. The primary purpose of this descriptive study was to investigate the distribution of inter-enlargement pathways in the adult rat spinal cord with an emphasis on the VLF. We made discrete unilateral injections of Fluoro-Gold (FG) into the right VLF at thoracic segment (T) 9, and either unilateral or bilateral injections of Fluoro-Ruby (FR) into the intermediate gray matter at the cervical (C) 5-6, C7-8, or lumbar (L) 2 segmental levels. Inter-enlargement neurons with ascending axons in the right VLF were found bilaterally in laminae VII and VIII throughout the rostral lumbar spinal cord (L1-L3) and predominantly contralaterally in the caudal lumbosacral (L4-S1) spinal cord. Following left unilateral FR injections at C5-6 or C7-8 and right unilateral VLF injections of FG at T9, very few double-labeled neurons could be found anywhere in the lumbar spinal cord. Similar injections of FR at L2 revealed an almost symmetrical bilateral distribution of double-labeled neurons throughout the cervical spinal cord (C1-8). These results describe ascending and descending pathways within the spinal cord that interconnect the two enlargements and involve both commissural and ipsilateral interneurons. The majority of inter-enlargement neurons had axons within the VLF at T9. These observations support the hypothesis that the VLF contains long ascending and descending axons with propriospinal inter-enlargement, commissural and ipsilateral connections that are anatomically well-suited to mediate interlimb coordination.
The effect of single or repeated restraint stress on several signal molecules in the hypothalamus was studied in ICR mice. Single restraint stress was induced for 30, 60, and 120 min. A repeated restraint stress was induced for 2 h daily during four consecutive days, and then induced in the same time course on the fifth day. In the immunoblot assay, we observed that the signal molecules c-Fos, phosphorylated extracellular cell-regulated protein kinase (pERK), phosphorylated calcium/calmodulin dependent protein kinase II (pCaMKII) and phosphorylated cyclic-AMP response element binding protein (pCREB) in the hypothalamus were increased by single restraint, and the increased c-Fos and pERK levels were attenuated by repeated restraint stress. However, pCaMKII and pCREB levels were increased by both single and repeated restraint stress. We also observed in the immunohistochemistry study that immunoreactivities (IR) of these signal molecules were changed in paraventricular (PVN) and arcuate nuclei (ArcN) of the hypothalamus in accordance with immunoblot results. Furthermore, in confocal immunofluorescence, the pCaMKII and pCREB up-regulated by repeated restraint stress were co-localized within many neurons of PVN and ArcN. In addition, we found that c-Fos and pCaMKII IR in locus coeruleus (LC) were increased by single restraint, and were attenuated by repeated restraint stress. However, the pERK and pCREB IR were increased by both single and repeated restraint stress. The confocal study revealed that pERK and pCREB up-regulated by repeated restraint stress were co-localized within many neurons of LC. Our results suggest that single and repeated restraint stress differentially triggers the induction and phosphorylation of several signal molecules in the PVN, ArcN, and LC. In addition, single and repeated stress stimuli elicited the brain-region specific changes of signal molecules examined. Furthermore, the upstream signal molecule activating CREB may be also brain-region specific, especially in repeated stress stimuli.
T-type calcium channel isoforms are expressed in a multitude of tissues and have a key role in a variety of physiological processes. To fully appreciate the physiological role of distinct channel isoforms it is essential to determine their kinetic properties under physiologically relevant conditions. We therefore characterized the gating behavior of expressed rat voltage-dependent calcium channels (Ca(v)) 3.1, Ca(v)3.2, and Ca(v)3.3, as well as human Ca(v)3.3 at 21 degrees C and 37 degrees C in saline that approximates physiological conditions. Exposure to 37 degrees C caused significant increases in the rates of activation, inactivation, and recovery from inactivation, increased the current amplitudes, and induced a hyperpolarizing shift of half-activation for Ca(v)3.1 and Ca(v)3.2. At 37 degrees C the half-inactivation showed a hyperpolarizing shift for Ca(v)3.1 and Ca(v)3.2 and human Ca(v)3.3, but not rat Ca(v)3.3. The observed changes in the kinetics were significant but not identical for the three isoforms, showing that the ability of T-type channels to conduct calcium varies with both channel isoform and temperature.
Chronic stress induced neuronal changes that may have consequences for subsequent stress responses. For example, chronic stress in rats rearranges dendritic branching patterns and disturbs the phosphorylation of extracellular-regulated kinase 1 and 2 (ERK) 1/2 throughout the limbic system. Stress-induced psychopathology occurs more often in women, however, most of studies have been done in male rats. Therefore, we studied the effect of stress in female rats. Other studies show that estradiol can modulate neuronal plasticity and might protect against stress-induced aberrations. To investigate the role of estradiol in stress responses we manipulated the hormone levels. Ovariectomized rats were cyclically treated with vehicle or with 17beta-estradiol-benzoate (1x in 4 days, 10 microg/250 g, s.c.) and subjected to either acute (3 days) or chronic (22 days) stress. In ovariectomized rats, the number of c-Fos positive cells in the infralimbic and prelimbic cortex of the prefrontal cortex and in the medial and basolateral amygdala was increased after acute stress. Moreover, acute stress reduced the number of phosphorylated ERK1/2 positive neurons in the prefrontal cortex of ovariectomized rats. Chronic stress, on the other hand, abolished normal patterns of c-Fos immunoreactivity in the prefrontal cortex and amygdala and increased the prefrontocortical phosphorylation of ERK1/2 in ovariectomized rats. Cyclic estradiol treatment preserved the neuronal reactivity in the infralimbic cortex after chronic stress and prevented sustained accumulation of phosphorylated ERK1/2. Therefore, cyclic estradiol administration apparently preserves the integrity of signal transduction cascades in limbic structures, which may protect against the harmful consequences of recurrent stress.
We previously reported that a methanolic extract of Coptis japonica, which is a well-known traditional oriental medicine, inhibits morphine-induced conditioned place preference (CPP) in mice. Berberine is a major component of Coptis japonica extract, and it has been established that the adverse effects of morphine on the brain involve dopamine (DA) receptors. However, to our knowledge, no study has investigated the inhibitory effects of berberine on morphine-induced locomotor sensitization and analgesic tolerance in mice. Here, we investigated the effects of berberine on morphine-induced locomotor sensitization and on the development of analgesic tolerance. Furthermore, we examined the effects of berberine treatment on N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor channel activity expressed in Xenopus laevis oocytes. Berberine was found to completely block both morphine-induced locomotor sensitization and analgesic tolerance, and reduce D(1) and NMDA receptor bindings in the cortex. Moreover, berberine markedly inhibited NMDA current in Xenopus laevis oocytes expressing NMDA receptor subunits. Our results suggest that the inhibitory effects of berberine on morphine-induced locomotor sensitization and analgesic tolerance are closely related to the modulation of D1 and NMDA receptors, and that berberine should be viewed as a potential novel means of attenuating morphine-induced sensitization and analgesic tolerance.
Animals made dependent via an ethanol (ETOH) -containing liquid diet (6% v/v) for 14 days were subjected to a contextual fear conditioning paradigm 3 days after the last consumption day. After conditioning, rats were subjected to four extinction trials by exposing the animals to the conditioned context and their freezing was evaluated for each trial. Immediately after the first extinction trial, animals were injected with D-cycloserine (DCS) 5 mg/kg i.p., a dose that did not influence the extinction in control rats. Spontaneous recovery of learned fear was tested seven days after the last extinction trial. The following day, animals were subjected to a reacquisition or a reinstatement procedure and their freezing responses evaluated 24 h later. The present study shows that: 1. discontinuation from chronic ETOH administration facilitated the formation of a new fear memory concomitant with a marked resistance to being extinguished, 2. administration of DCS (5 mg/kg) facilitated the extinction process only in ETOH withdrawn rats, 3. both reinstatement and reacquisition procedures restored the increased freezing in ETOH withdrawn animals after extinction, 4. DCS administered immediately after the first extinction trial prevented the increase in freezing following both reacquisition and reinstatement. The enhanced sensitivity to the facilitatory effect of DCS in ETOH withdrawn animals may be mediated by adaptive changes in N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor provoked by ETOH dependence.
Overexpression of alpha-synuclein causes familial Parkinson's disease and abnormal aggregates of the protein are present in sporadic cases of the disease. We have examined the behavioral effects of direct and indirect dopaminergic agonists in transgenic mice expressing human alpha-synuclein under the Thy-1 promoter (Thy1-aSyn, alpha-synuclein overexpressor), which exhibit progressive impairments in behavioral tests sensitive to nigrostriatal dopamine dysfunction. Male Thy1-aSyn and wild-type mice received vehicle, benserazide/L-DOPA (25 mg/kg, i.p.), high (2 mg/kg, s.c.) and low doses (0.125, 0.25, 0.5 mg/kg, s.c.) of apomorphine, and amphetamine (5 mg/kg, i.p.), beginning at 3 months of age, and were tested on the challenging beam, spontaneous activity, pole test, and gait. l-DOPA had a paradoxical effect and worsened the deficits in Thy1-aSyn mice compared with controls, whereas the high dose of apomorphine only produced few deficits above those already present in Thy1-aSyn. In contrast to wild-type mice, Thy1-aSyn mice did not show amphetamine-induced stereotypies. The results indicate that chronic overexpression of alpha-synuclein led to abnormal pharmacological responses in mice.
Sex-related differences in the sensitivity to pain and in the response to analgesics have been reported including higher perceptual responses to experimentally induced pain and the higher prevalence of many pain syndromes in women compared with men. This study examines whether alpha2-adrenoceptor-mediated antinociceptive effects are reduced by estrogen which could account for the sex-related differences in pain perception and modulation. Clonidine, an alpha2-adrenoceptor agonist, has been shown to inhibit noxious stimulus-evoked nociceptive behavior as well as the responses of nociceptive neurons in the medullary dorsal horn. Intracisternal microinjection of clonidine (7 microg/5 microl) through the implanted PE-10 cannulae dorsal to the trigeminal region in male, ovariectomized (OVX), and diestrous (DiE) Sprague-Dawley rats produced a strong antinociceptive effect on N-methyl-D-aspartic acid (NMDA)-induced nociceptive scratching behavior and heat-induced face withdrawal nociceptive tests. However, it failed to produce any inhibition in the estradiol-treated ovariectomized (OVX+E) group regardless of the dose of estradiol (1, 10 or 100 microg/100 microl sesame oil) or in the proestrous (ProE) group. Further, clonidine produced dose-dependent effects in male and OVX groups but not in the OVX+E group on the NMDA-induced nociceptive behavior. Finally, the effect of clonidine was reversed by yohimbine, an alpha2-adrenoceptor antagonist, in male and OVX groups on thermal nociceptive test. These results lead us to conclude that activation of alpha2-adrenoceptors produces sex-specific, estrogen dependent modulation of nociception in the trigeminal region of the rat. A decreased alpha2-adrenoceptor-mediated inhibition could be one of the factors responsible for the higher prevalence of pain syndromes in females.
Interleukin-31 receptor A (IL-31RA) is a newly identified type I cytokine receptor, that is related to gp130, the common receptor of the interleukin (IL) -6 family cytokines. Recent studies have shown that IL-31RA forms a functional receptor complex for IL-31 together with the beta subunit of oncostatin M receptor (OSMRbeta). However, little is known about the target cells of IL-31 because it remains unclear which types of cells express IL-31RA. In our previous reports, we demonstrated that OSMRbeta is expressed in a subset of small-sized nociceptive neurons of adult dorsal root ganglia (DRGs). In the present study, we investigated the IL-31RA expression in the adult and developing DRGs. From a northern blot analysis and in situ hybridization histochemistry, IL-31RA mRNA was found to be expressed in the adult DRGs. According to reverse-transcriptase polymerase chain reaction, IL-31RA mRNA was detected in the DRGs and trigeminal ganglia, while no expression of IL-31RA mRNA was observed in the CNS. Double immunofluorescence staining revealed IL-31RA to be expressed in a subset of small-sized neurons, all of which colocalized with OSMRbeta. In addition, the expression of IL-31 RA was detected in afferent fibers in the spinal cord and the dermis of the skin. We also found that the developmental expression pattern of IL-31RA was different from that of OSMRbeta; IL31RA-positive neurons in DRGs first appeared at postnatal day (PN) 10 and reached the adult level at PN14, whereas OSMRbeta-positive neurons were observed at PN0 for the first time. We previously demonstrated OSMRbeta-expressing neurons to decrease, however, they were not found to disappear in oncostatin M (OSM) -deficient mice. These findings suggest that IL-31 and OSM may thus have redundant functions in the development of OSMRbeta-expressing neurons.
The ionotropic GABA(C) receptor, formed by GABA rho subunits, is known to be modulated by a variety of endogenous compounds, as well as by changes in pH. In this study, we explore the proton sensitivity of the GABA rho subunits cloned from the perch retina, and report a novel action of high pH on the homomeric receptor formed by one of the GABA rho subunits, the perch-rho(1B) subunit. Raising extracellular pH to 9.5 significantly accelerated GABA deactivation responses elicited from oocytes expressing the perch-rho(1B) subunit, and reduced its sensitivity to GABA. The change in the kinetics of the GABA-offset response occurred without altering the maximum response amplitude, and the reduced GABA sensitivity was independent of membrane potential. Although acidification of the extracellular solution also accelerated GABA deactivation for all other GABA rho receptors examined in this study, the effects of high pH were unique to the homomeric receptor formed by the perch-rho(1B) subunit. In addition, we found that, unlike the effects on the response to the naturally occurring full agonist GABA, the responses elicited by partial agonists (imidazole-4-acetic acid (I4AA) and beta-alanine) in the presence of the high pH solution showed a significant reduction in the maximum response amplitude. When considered in terms of a model describing the activation of GABA(C) receptors, in which pH can potentially affect either the binding affinity or the rate of channel closure, the results were consistent with the view that external alkalization reduces the gating efficiency of the receptor. To identify the proton sensitive domain(s) of the perch-rho(1B) receptor, chimeras were constructed by domain swapping with other perch-rho subunits. Analysis of the pH sensitivities of the various chimeric receptors revealed that the alkaline-sensitive residues are located in the N-terminal region of the perch-rho(1B) subunit.
Neuronal death associated with cerebral ischemia and hypoglycemia is related to increased release of excitatory amino acids (EAA) and energy failure. The intrahippocampal administration of the glycolysis inhibitor, iodoacetate (IOA), induces the accumulation of EAA and neuronal death. We have investigated by microdialysis the role of exocytosis, glutamate transporters and volume-sensitive organic anion channel (VSOAC) on IOA-induced EAA release. Results show that the early component of EAA release is inhibited by riluzole, a voltage-dependent sodium channel blocker, and by the VSOAC blocker, tamoxifen, while the early and late components are blocked by the glutamate transport inhibitors, L-trans-pyrrolidine 2,4-dicarboxylate (PDC) and DL-threo-beta-benzyloxyaspartate (DL-TBOA); and by the VSOAC blocker 4,4'-dinitrostilbene-2,2'-disulfonic acid (DNDS). Riluzole, DL-TBOA and tamoxifen did not prevent IOA-induced neuronal death, while PDC and DNDS did. The VSOAC blockers 5-nitro-2-(3-phenylpropyl-amino) benzoic acid (NPPB) and phloretin had no effect either on EAA efflux or neuronal damage. Results suggest that acute inhibition of glycolytic metabolism promotes the accumulation of EAA by exocytosis, impairment or reverse action of glutamate transporters and activation of a DNDS-sensitive mechanism. The latest is substantially involved in the triggering of neuronal death. To our knowledge, this is the first study to show protection of neuronal death by DNDS in an in vivo model of neuronal damage, associated with deficient energy metabolism and EAA release, two conditions involved in some pathological states such as ischemia and hypoglycemia.
To better understand the function of the Wnt pathway in the developing telencephalon, we analyzed neocortical development in low density lipoprotein receptor-related protein (LRP) 6 mutants. LRP6 mutant mice are hypomorphic for the canonical Wnt signaling pathway and have hypoplasia of the developing neocortex. While early telencephalic morphogenesis is largely intact in these mice, probably due to compensation by LRP5, the mutant mice develop a dramatically thinner cortical plate. There is a prominent reduction of neurogenesis leading to a thin cortical plate. Reduced proliferation late in gestation probably also contributes to the hypoplasia. Although there are marked decreases in the numbers of layer 6 and layers 2-4 neurons all laminar identities are generated and there is no evidence of compensatory increases in layer 5 neurons. In addition, LRP6 mutants have partial penetrance of a complex of cortical dysmorphologies resembling those found in patients with developmental forms of epilepsy and mental retardation. These include ventricular and marginal zone heterotopias and cobblestone lissencephaly. This analysis demonstrates that canonical Wnt signaling is required for a diverse array of developmental processes in the neocortex in addition to the previously known roles in regulating precursor proliferation and patterning.
Acetyl-L-carnitine is a natural molecule widely distributed in vertebrate and invertebrate nervous system. It is known to have significant effects on neuronal activity playing a role as neuroprotective and anti-nociceptive agent, as well as neuromodulatory factor. About its capability of affecting learning processes the available data are controversial. In the present study, we utilized the simplified model system of the leech Hirudo medicinalis to analyze the effects of acetyl-L-carnitine, assessing whether and how it might affect elementary forms of nonassociative learning processes. In leeches with the head ganglion disconnected from the first segmental ganglion, repetitive application of weak electrical shocks onto the caudal portion of the body wall induces habituation of swim induction whereas brush strokes on the dorsal skin produces sensitization or dishabituation when the nociceptive stimulus is delivered on previously habituated animals. Herein, the effects of different concentrations of acetyl-L-carnitine (2 mM - 0.05 mM) have been tested at different times on both sensitization and dishabituation. The results show that a single treatment of acetyl-L-carnitine blocked the onset of sensitization in a dose- and time-dependent manner. In fact, the most effective concentration able to block this process was 2 mM, which induced its major effects 11 days after the treatment, whereas 0.05 mM was unable to affect the sensitization process at all considered time points. On the contrary, acetyl-L-carnitine did not completely abolish dishabituation at the tested concentrations and at every time point. Finally, acetyl-L-carnitine also impaired the habituation of swim induction, but only 11 days after treatment.
GABA mediates inhibitory effects in neurons of the ventral part of the oral pontine reticular nucleus (vRPO). Evidence increasingly suggests that GABA plays an important role in the modulation of rapid eye movement (REM) sleep generation in the cat vRPO. Here, we investigate the anatomical substrate of this modulation using GABA immunocytochemistry. Immunoperoxidase labeling revealed a few small GABA-immunoreactive cell bodies scattered throughout the vRPO. The numerical densities of all vRPO synapses and the GABA-immunoreactive synapses were estimated, at the electron microscopical level, by using a combination of the physical disector and the post-embedding immunogold techniques. We estimated that 30% of all vRPO synaptic terminals were immunoreactive to GABA. Our findings support the hypothesis that vRPO neuron activity is significantly controlled by inhibitory GABAergic terminals that directly target somata and the different parts of the dendritic tree, including distal regions. GABAergic input could inhibit vRPO REM sleep-inducing neurons during other states of the sleep-wakefulness cycle such as wakefulness or non-REM sleep.

Smoking during pregnancy poses a potential risk to unborn children. The present study examined the long-term effects of early nicotine exposure on the number of pyramidal and granule cells in the hippocampus, and Purkinje cells in the cerebellar vermis. The loss of neurons is the most severe form of brain injury with significant functional implications. In this study, rats were exposed to nicotine during either the prenatal (PRE) period or both the prenatal and early postnatal (PERI) period. It was hypothesized that nicotine treatment would result in long-term decreases in neuronal numbers, and that PERI treatment would be more detrimental to these cell populations than the PRE treatment. The results showed that neither PRE nor PERI nicotine exposure reduces the numbers of pyramidal, granule or Purkinje cells. Neither the regions where these cells reside, nor the cell densities were affected by nicotine. Although no significant cell loss was observed, the current nicotine exposure regimens may lead to alterations in cellular functions or cytoarchitectures. The present results in conjunction with previous reports showing significant cell loss from nicotine exposure during the brain growth spurt suggest that &quot;patch-like&quot; nicotine exposure during prenatal period may alter the sensitivity or the responsiveness of the developing brain to the injurious effects of nicotine during the most vulnerable stage of brain development - the brain growth spurt. Furthermore, the current stereology cell counting results are not in agreement with some reports in the literature, and this discrepancy may simply be a function of different cell counting techniques used.


An umbilical CSF fistula following a ventriculoperitoneal shunt is an extremely rare complication. We report a 28-year-old man who presented with leak of clear fluid from the umbilicus, one month after a ventriculo-peritoneal shunt revision. Shuntogram revealed communication between umbilicus and abdominal end of the catheter. He was managed successfully with shunt exteriorization, antimeningitic treatment, and later shunt re-insertion.
Non-enzymatic glycation of peripheral nerve extracellular matrix (ECM) may contribute to the development of diabetic distal sensory neuropathy (DNP). We investigated the relative importance of glycation of collagen types I and IV, laminin and fibronectin in DNP-related impairment in peripheral nerve regeneration. Dorsal root ganglia (DRGs) from young adult mice were embedded in collagen type I modified by 10% substitution with normal or glycated forms of the proteins and incubated for 3 days. Outgrowth of axons and migration of cells into the ECM were quantified. Mean length of growing axons was significantly reduced by glycation of laminin and collagen type IV. The sum of lengths of all axons from each DRG was greatly reduced with glycated laminin, collagen types IV and I. Glycation of fibronectin had no effect on axonal growth. The number of migrating cells was not affected by glycation. We conclude that non-enzymatic glycation of laminin and collagen types IV and I (in decreasing order) impairs peripheral nerve regeneration in vitro.





We describe MR spectroscopy in 2 patients with frontal sinus mucoceles that showed a dominant metabolite peak at 2.0-ppm chemical shift, simulating N-acetylaspartate (NAA) of normal neuronal tissue. In vitro analysis of postsurgical mucocele samples confirmed that the signal at 2.0 ppm was arising from the methyl moiety of an N-acetyl compound. This is probably caused by N-acetylgalactosamine or N-acetylglucosamine, which are glycoproteins found in normal respiratory mucus produced by the paranasal sinus epithelium.
Control of cerebral vasculature differs from that of systemic vessels outside the blood-brain barrier. The hypothesis that the endothelium modulates vasomotion via direct myoendothelial coupling was investigated in a small vessel of the cerebral circulation. In the primary branch of the rat basilar artery, membrane potential, diameter, and calcium dynamics associated with vasomotion were examined using selective inhibitors of endothelial function in intact and endothelium-denuded arteries. Vessel anatomy, protein, and mRNA expression were studied using conventional electron microscopy high-resolution ultrastructural and confocal immunohistochemistry and quantitative PCR. Membrane potential oscillations were present in both endothelial cells and smooth muscle cells (SMCs), and these preceded rhythmical contractions during which adjacent SMC intracellular calcium concentration ([Ca(2+)](i)) waves were synchronized. Endothelium removal abolished vasomotion and desynchronized adjacent smooth muscle cell [Ca(2+)](i) waves. N(G)-nitro-l-arginine methyl ester (10 microM) did not mimic this effect, and dibutyryl cGMP (300 muM) failed to resynchronize [Ca(2+)](i) waves in endothelium-denuded arteries. Combined charybdotoxin and apamin abolished vasomotion and depolarized and constricted vessels, even in absence of endothelium. Separately, (37,43)Gap27 and (40)Gap27 abolished vasomotion. Extensive myoendothelial gap junctions (3 per endothelial cell) composed of connexins 37 and 40 connected the endothelial cell and SMC layers. Synchronized vasomotion in rat basilar artery is endothelium dependent, with [Ca(2+)](i) waves generated within SMCs being coordinated by electrical coupling via myoendothelial gap junctions.
A major pathway by which cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) is removed from the cranium is transport through the cribriform plate in association with the olfactory nerves. CSF is then absorbed into lymphatics located in the submucosa of the olfactory epithelium (olfactory turbinates). In an attempt to provide a quantitative measure of this transport, 125I-human serum albumin (HSA) was injected into the lateral ventricles of adult Fisher 344 rats. The animals were killed at 10, 20, 30, 40, and 60 min after injection, and tissue samples, including blood (from heart puncture), skeletal muscle, spleen, liver, kidney, and tail were excised for radioactive assessment. The remains were frozen. To sample the olfactory turbinates, angled coronal tissue sections anterior to the cribriform plate were prepared from the frozen heads. The average concentration of 125I-HSA was higher in the middle olfactory turbinates than in any other tissue with peak concentrations achieved 30 min after injection. At this point, the recoveries of injected tracer (percent injected dose/g tissue) were 9.4% middle turbinates, 1.6% blood, 0.04% skeletal muscle, 0.2% spleen, 0.3% liver, 0.3% kidney, and 0.09% tail. The current belief that arachnoid projections are responsible for CSF drainage fails to explain some important issues related to the pathogenesis of CSF disorders. The rapid movement of the CSF tracer into the olfactory turbinates further supports a role for lymphatics in CSF absorption and provides the basis of a method to investigate the novel concept that diseases associated with the CSF system may involve impaired lymphatic CSF transport.
The search for the principles of unified psychotherapy is an important stage in the advancement of the field. Converging evidence from various streams of clinical science allows the identification of some of the major domains of human functioning, adaptation, and dysfunction. These principles, supported by animal modeling, neuroscience, and developmental psychopathology, along with new theoretical constructs, are demonstrating that human functioning is best conceptualized as holistic and highly interrelated at all domain levels of the total ecological system. Incorporating these findings with evidence accrued over the past century of psychotherapy practice and study allows psychologists to begin to explore the development of a unified system of psychotherapy that is rooted in the clinical sciences. One such attempt to develop a unified framework is presented as a starting point. ((c) 2006 APA, all rights reserved).
Presents the citation for Seth D. Pollak, who received the Award for Distinguished Scientific Early Career Contributions to Psychology (developmental psychology) &quot;for his research on the mechanisms of emotional development using an innovative combination of methods from psychophysics, neuroscience, and behavioral endocrinology.&quot; A brief profile and a selected bibliography accompany the citation. ((c) 2006 APA, all rights reserved).
Eponyms have played a very significant linguistic role in technical and scientific terminology. They are an important feature of language that have contributed for a long time to engraving in history the names of those researchers who have devoted their lives to scientific discovery. In the field of medical terminology, they are an asset, although their semantic effectiveness has constituted a long-standing debate. We will analyze how language contributes to the advance of science and technology and the current position of eponyms in the health sciences. Eponymy in neuroscience has been used for a long time as a way to identify and recognize scientific issues, such as diseases, syndromes, methods, processes, substances, organs, and parts of organs as a way to honor those who, in a certain way, contributed to the progress of science. However, sometimes those honors do not correspond to the real contributors, thus receiving a nondeserved acknowledgment. Another problem with eponymic references is the lack of information about the matter in hand, because eponyms do not provide any clear information leading to the identification of the situation under study, as they are not reasonably descriptive. The aim of this article is to encourage the use of descriptive terms instead of eponyms and to establish a system of scientific nomenclature to consolidate the use of the language as a means of conveying scientific information among experts.
The recent identification of a common genetic variant (LRRK2 G2385R) which is associated with a two-fold increased risk of sporadic Parkinson's Disease (PD) in two independent Chinese populations in Singapore and Taiwan has generated considerable excitement. Thus far, this variant appears specific for the Asian population, emphasising further that ethnic-specific effects should be considered in genetic association studies. Cautious optimism is advised as we await more scientific studies and clarification if this risk variant is specific to ethnic Chinese race. Our in-vitro studies suggest the Gly2385Arg variant is biologically relevant and it might act through pro-apoptotic mechanisms, especially under cellular stresses. This may provide a partial explanation why some carriers develop the disease while others do not. The presence of other epigenetic factors, gene-gene and gene-environmental interaction could modulate the phenotype expression. Further validation of these findings would be needed to confirm this variant as the single most important common genetic risk factor in ethnic Chinese and/or Asian PD patients. The identification of the LRRK2 Gly2385Arg variant could potentially facilitate the development of clinical, bioimaging, genetic and biological biomarkers, useful in the monitoring and neuroprotective therapy in asymptomatic individuals.
Neurogenesis occurs in the adult brain, and neural stem cells (NSCs) reside in the adult central nervous system (CNS). In the adult brain, newly generated neuronal cells would originate from a population of glial cells with stem cells properties, and be involved in processes such as learning and memory, depression, and in regenerative attempts in the diseased brain and after injuries. In human, a recent study reported no evidence of migrating neural progenitor cells along the subventricular zone (SVZ) to the olfactory bulb (OB), contrary to other species, highlighting the particularity of adult neurogenesis in human. Though the origin and contribution of newly generated neuronal cells to CNS pathophysiology remain to be fully understood, the discovery that NSCs reside in the adult CNS force us to re-evaluate our knowledge and understanding of brain functioning, and suggest that the adult CNS may be amenable to repair. In this manuscript,we will review the recent data, debates and controversies on the identification, origin and function of newly generated neuronal cells in the adult brain, in human and in other species. We will discuss their contribution and significance to CNS pathophysiology, and for cellular therapy.
Estrogen plays key regulatory roles in a variety of biological actions besides its classic function as a sex hormone. Recently, estrogen has been linked to neurodegenerative diseases including Alzheimer's disease (AD) and Parkinson's disease (PD). Several lines of evidence support the notion that brain estrogen exerts neuroprotective effects against various types of neurotoxicity in different cellular and animal models. Despite some controversies, estrogen replacement therapy (ERT) at an early stage, especially when given prior to menopause, has been shown to reduce the risk of AD in postmenopausal women. In addition, multiple lines of evidence have proven the neuroprotective effects of estrogen, such as enhancing neurotrophin signaling and synaptic activities pertinent to memory functions and protecting neurons against oxidative injuries and beta-amyloid toxicity; the latter is widely accepted as the prime culprit known to trigger the pathogenesis of AD. Here we will summarize our findings that estrogen decreased generation and secretion of beta-amyloid peptides in cultured cells and primary neurons and that administration of estrogen in estrogen-deprived mice reversed the elevated levels of brain Abeta. We will also discuss the molecular and cellular mechanisms underlying estrogen's effects on Abeta metabolism, which is highlighted by our demonstration that estrogen increases intracellular trafficking of beta-amyloid precursor protein (betaAPP) and hence reduces maximal Abeta generation within the trans-Golgi network (TGN), a subcellular compartment in which APP is known to be cleaved by the secretase enzymes to generate Abeta.
Annexin 1 (ANXA1) was originally identified as a mediator of the anti-inflammatory actions of glucocorticoids (GCs) in the host defense system. Subsequent work confirmed and extended these findings and also showed that the protein fulfills a wider brief and serves as a signaling intermediate in a number of systems. ANXA1 thus contributes to the regulation of processes as diverse as cell migration, cell growth and differentiation, apoptosis, vesicle fusion, lipid metabolism, and cytokine expression. Here we consider the role of ANXA1 in the neuroendocrine system, particularly the hypothalamo-pituitary-adrenocortical (HPA) axis. Evidence is presented that ANXA1 plays a critical role in effecting the negative feedback effects of GCs on the release of corticotrophin (ACTH) and its hypothalamic-releasing hormones and that it is particularly pertinent to the early-onset actions of the steroids that are mediated via a nongenomic mechanism. The paracrine/juxtacrine mode of ANXA1 action is discussed in detail, with particular reference to the significance of the secondary processing of ANXA1, the processes that control the intracellular and transmembrane trafficking of the protein of the molecule and the mechanism of ANXA1 action on its target cells. In addition, the role of ANXA1 in the perinatal programming of the HPA axis is discussed.
Alzheimer's disease (AD) is accompanied by progressive memory loss and decline in general cognitive abilities. Neuropathological hallmarks include amyloid plaque formation, neurofibrillary tangles, and neuronal and synaptic loss. To improve research models in AD, we have characterized several aspects of the primary rat neuronal cell culture model, which relate directly to the study of neuroexocytosis, neuronal plasticity, and amyloidosis. We have attempted to isolate and assess the neuronal enrichment of a primary cortical cell culture by morphological and molecular techniques, following progress of these cultured cells for up to 18 days in culture to identify the optimum timeframe for the manipulation and data collection in these cells. We observed maximum neuronal differentiation around day 15, which was in decline by day 18, thus, the critical window for manipulations in these cultures seems to be between days 12-15. The substantial increase in neuritic length and density was apparent at very early time points and peaked at day 15. In parallel to morphological assessments, we measured levels of a group of selected neuronally important proteins, including cytoskeletal and synaptic proteins. Change in the levels of cell-associated APP and synaptophysin were not as dramatic as that of SNAP-25 or secreted APP. Notably, this increased differentiation is accompanied by a dramatic increase in levels of SNAP-25 protein, which peaked at day 15 and declined thereafter. These results suggest that this neuronal population contains quantifiable presynaptic terminals. Thus, the establishment and molecular characterization of this neuronal model would have many implications in neuroscience research including synaptic differentiation and neuronal plasticity and for the evaluation of pharmacological interventions in the disease process.
There is now widespread agreement that small size at birth is associated with an increased risk of the metabolic syndrome (glucose intolerance, high blood pressure, and dyslipidemia) and related pathologies, including cardiovascular disease in later life. Evidence is emerging that suggests that programming of hormonal systems in response to an adverse fetal environment may be one of the mechanisms underlying these long-term consequences of growth restriction in early life. In particular, alterations in neuroendocrine responses to stress may be important. Recent research suggests that increased adrenocortical and sympathoadrenal responses are associated with small size at birth. Epidemiological studies show that such physiological alterations in these neuroendocrine systems may have potent effects on risk of cardiovascular disease through their influence on risk factors, such as plasma glucose and lipid concentrations and blood pressure.



The central nervous system (CNS) presents both challenges and opportunities to researchers of redox biochemistry. The CNS is sensitive to oxidative damage during aging or disease; excellent transgenic models of specific neurodegenerative diseases have been created that reproduce oxidative stress components of the corresponding human disorder. Mouse models of familial amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) based on overexpressed mutant human Cu, Zn-superoxide dismutase (SOD1) are cases in point. These animals experience predictably staged, age-dependent motor neuron degeneration with profound cellular and biochemical damage to nerve fibers and spinal cord tissue. Severe protein and lipid oxidation occurs in these animals, apparently as an indirect consequence of protein aggregation or cytopathic protein-protein interactions, as opposed to aberrant redox catalysis by the mutant enzyme. Recent studies of G93A-SOD1 mice and rats suggest that oxidative damage is part of an unmitigated neuroinflammatory reaction, possibly arising in combination from mitochondrial dysfunction plus pathophysiologic activation of both astrocytes and microglia. Lesions to redox signal-transduction pathways in mutant SOD1+ glial cells may stimulate broad-spectrum upregulation of proinflammatory genes, including arachidonic acid-metabolizing enzymes [e.g., cyclooxygenase-II (COX-II) and 5-lipoxygenase (5LOX)]; nitric oxide synthase (NOS) isoforms; cytokines (particularly tumor necrosis factor alpha, TNF-alpha); chemokines; and immunoglobulin Fc receptors (FcgammaRs). The integration of these processes creates a paracrine milieu inconsistent with healthy neural function. This review summarizes what has been learned to date from studies of mutant SOD1 transgenic animals and demonstrates that the G93A-SOD1 mouse in particular is a robust laboratory for the study of neuroinflammation and redox biochemistry.
Huntington's disease (HD) is a devastating neurodegenerative disorder characterized by the progressive development of involuntary choreiform movements, cognitive impairment, neuropsychiatric symptoms, and premature death. These phenotypes reflect neuronal dysfunction and ultimately death in selected brain regions, the striatum and cerebral cortex being principal targets. The genetic mutation responsible for the HD phenotype is known, and its protein product, mutant huntingtin (mhtt), identified. HD is one of several &quot;triplet repeat&quot; diseases, in which abnormal expansions in trinucleotide repeat domains lead to elongated polyglutamine stretches in the affected gene's protein product. Mutant htt-mediated toxicity in the brain disrupts a number of vital cellular processes in the course of disease progression, including energy metabolism, gene transcription, clathrin-dependent endocytosis, intraneuronal trafficking, and postsynaptic signaling, but the crucial initiation mechanism induced by mhtt is still unclear. A large body of evidence, however, supports an early and critical involvement of defects in mitochondrial function and CNS energy metabolism in the disease trigger. Thus, downstream death-effector mechanisms, including excitotoxicity, apoptosis, and oxidative damage, have been implicated in the mechanism of selective neuronal damage in HD. Here we review the current evidence supporting a role for oxidative damage in the etiology of neuronal damage and degeneration in HD.
Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a neurodegenerative disease characterized by gradual cognitive decline, impairments in speech and language, and dysfunction in the sensorimotor systems, culminating in complete reliance on nursing care. Oxidative stress, caused by an imbalance in the pro-oxidant/antioxidant mechanisms in the body, has been implicated in AD pathogenesis, as in many other age-associated diseases such as atherosclerosis, Parkinson disease, and amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. Although the hormones estrogen, progesterone, testosterone, and luteinizing hormone are best known for their roles in reproduction, many studies show these hormones have other roles, including neuroprotection. Changes in the levels of these hormones that occur in reproductive senescence are hypothesized to increase risk of AD, as a result of reduced protection against oxidative insults. The Abeta peptide, overproduction of which is thought to be a key pathogenic event in the development of AD, is neurotoxic, most likely due to its ability to promote oxidative stress. The reproductive hormones are known to influence Abeta metabolism, and this review discusses the beneficial and detrimental effects these hormones have on Abeta production and oxidative stress, and their relevance in potential AD therapies.
When subjected to excessive oxidative stress, neurons may respond adaptively to overcome the stress, or they may activate a programmed cell death pathway called apoptosis. Apoptosis is characterized by alterations in mitochondria and the endoplasmic reticulum and activation of cysteine proteases called caspases. Increasing evidence suggests that apoptotic biochemical cascades are involved in the dysfunction and death of neurons in neurodegenerative disorders such as Alzheimer's, Parkinson, and Huntington's diseases. Studies of normal aging, of genetic mutations that cause disease, and of environmental factors that affect disease risk are revealing cellular and molecular alterations that may cause excessive oxidative stress and trigger neuronal apoptosis. Accumulation of self-aggregating proteins such as amyloid beta-peptide, tau, alpha-synuclein, and huntingtin may be involved in apoptosis both upstream and downstream of oxidative stress. Membrane-associated oxidative stress resulting in perturbed lipid metabolism and disruption of cellular calcium homeostasis may trigger apoptosis in several different neurodegenerative disorders. Counteracting neurodegenerative processes are an array of mechanisms including neurotrophic factor signaling, antioxidant enzymes, protein chaperones, antiapoptotic proteins, and ionostatic systems. Emerging findings suggest that the resistance of neurons to death during aging can be enhanced by modifications of diet and lifestyle.
DJ-1 plays an important role in oxidative stress, and is involved in various neurodegenerative diseases. Accumulating evidence suggests a central role for oxidative stress in multiple sclerosis (MS). The aim of this study was to examine whether changes occur in DJ-1 expression in an animal model of MS, experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE). We found upregulation of DJ-1 mRNA and protein expression levels in EAE and a correlation between disease severity and increased DJ-1 levels. Although DJ-1 isoforms were more alkaline in controls, in EAE, a shift was noted toward acidic isoforms. ROS induced by SIN-I exposure led to an increase in DJ-1 mRNA and protein levels in human glioma U-87 cells. Immunocytochemical staining demonstrated that DJ-1 is present both in the cytoplasm and the nuclei of these cells. This is the first report of modulation of DJ-1 expression in EAE. Upregulation of DJ-1 was noted in EAE, and similar results were observed in glioma cells exposed to ROS. In view of the accumulating evidence on the central role of oxidative stress in MS, and the importance of DJ-1 in oxidative stress management by the CNS, we believe that DJ-1 will be found to have a central role in MS.
Purines are extracellular nucleotides that have long-term effects on keratinocyte proliferation, differentiation and death through P2Y(1), P2Y(2), P2X(5) and P2X(7) receptors. This study examined changes in expression of these P2 receptors on lower leg epidermal keratinocytes in control and chronic venous insufficiency (CVI) states. Lower limb skin biopsies from CVI (CEAP classification 4a and 4b) and control skin were immunostained for the above P2 receptor subtypes and epidermal area was calculated. Our results with CVI show an increase in P2Y(1) and P2Y(2) receptor expression in basal and spinosal layers of the epidermis and an increase of P2X(5) receptors mainly in the spinosal layer and extending further into the stratum granulosum. In contrast, P2X(7) receptors were reduced in the stratum corneum in CVI. In conclusion, a thinner epidermis was found in CVI, which might be the result of the changes in expression of P2Y and P2X receptors on keratinocytes: that is, increased proliferation via P2Y(1) and P2Y(2) receptors and reduced P2X(7) receptor-mediated cell death opposed by a dominant decrease in cell numbers as a result of increased P2X(5) receptor-mediated differentiation (which is in effect antiproliferative). Thus, increased keratinocyte P2X(5) receptor activity may, in part, be accountable for epidermal thinning in CVI.




The study of sex differences in the onset, progression and symptoms of Parkinson's disease, in humans, has led to mixed results. In this study, we used a unilateral 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA) lesion animal model of Parkinson's disease, to address whether there are sex differences in the composition of the movements used during vertical exploration within a confined cylinder. Tyrosine hydroxylase staining and apomorphine induced rotation were used to confirm lesion magnitude. There were no sex differences or lesion effects in the frequency of occurrence of a vertical bout or the average time spent vertical. Both male and female 6-OHDA animals exhibited equal impairments in the use of the forelimbs during vertical exploration. 6-OHDA males, as compared to 6-OHDA females, however, had a significant reduction in the use of their hindlimbs. An analysis of hindlimb step direction revealed that while sham females were more likely to step forward, sham males were more likely to step backwards during a vertical bout. This sex difference was no longer present in the 6-OHDA animals. Finally, 6-OHDA males were significantly more likely to place their dorsal surface in contact with the wall of the cylinder to maintain an upright posture during a vertical bout than animals in any other condition. These results demonstrate that the use of a confined cylinder task is appropriate for the kinematic analysis of sex differences in vertical behaviour and show that there are sex differences in motor behaviour in an animal model of human Parkinson's disease.
Posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD) is the fourth most common psychiatric disorder. It is associated with somatic complaints like pain problems. Only a proportion of persons exposed to traumatic events develop PTSD. Several factors, like genetic predisposition, stressor intensity, cognitive appraisal mechanisms and coping processes influence the likelihood of developing PTSD after exposure to a trauma. We used a single session of footshocks in rats, an animal model with a high degree of validity for PTSD, to study whether individual behavioural traits predict long-term stress-induced sensitisation of behavioural responsivity and somatic pain sensitivity and therefore can act as a vulnerability factor. Rats were selected for low (LA) and high (HA) open-field locomotor reactivity and then underwent a single session of footshocks. Two to 5 weeks after footshocks, behavioural sensitisation was investigated using a noise challenge, an electrified prod challenge and a forced swim test. Somatic pain sensitivity was measured using a tail-immersion test. During exposure to noise in a novel cage, footshocked rats showed increased immobility compared to controls, which was significantly greater in LA than in HA rats. Footshocked rats showed increased burying in the electrified prod challenge and no effect was found in the forced swim test. Footshocks caused hyperalgesia in LA rats, but hypoalgesia in HA rats. We conclude that low open-field locomotor reactivity predicts the degree of stress-induced behavioural sensitisation and the direction of altered somatic pain sensitivity, suggesting that an anxiety-prone personality or passive coping style may increase the risk of developing stress-related psychosomatic disorders.
Stress and drug-associated cues can trigger drug desire and relapse in abstinent cocaine users. Although the role of these two factors in relapse is well documented, it remains unclear as to whether an interaction between stress and drug-associated cues can lead to an enhancement in cocaine-seeking behavior. Here, we assessed the effects of the anxiogenic alpha2-noradrenergic receptor antagonist, yohimbine, on reinstatement of cocaine-seeking in rats either in the presence or absence of cocaine-associated cues. Yohimbine pretreatment in the absence of cocaine-associated cues or cues by themselves reliably reinstated responding on the previously cocaine-paired lever (3-4 times higher than extinction levels). However, animals showed greatly potentiated responding if yohimbine preceded cue-induced reinstatement (10-13 times higher than extinction levels, or 3-5 times over cues or yohimbine alone). While cocaine self-administration produced a significant increase in plasma corticosterone, plasma corticosterone levels did not show a clear relationship to cocaine-paired lever responding during cue and/or yohimbine-induced reinstatement. These results demonstrate that exposure to drug-paired cues during a stressful state can greatly potentiate cocaine-seeking and suggest that future treatment interventions should target multiple modalities.
In the present study, the effects of acute administration of nicotine, as well as nicotinic and muscarinic acetylcholine receptor antagonists, on the expression of morphine-induced conditioned place preference, have been investigated in male Swiss-Webster mice. Animals received different doses of morphine 5 days after surgical cannulation in the lateral ventricle. Subcutaneous injections of morphine (2-5 mg/kg) in mouse produced place preference in a dose-dependent manner. Furthermore, both intraperitoneal (0.0006-0.1 mg/kg) and intracerebroventricular (0.007-25 ng) nicotine administration significantly reduced the expression of morphine-induced place preference, in a dose-dependent manner. Nicotine, however, was effective over narrow ultra-low dose ranges (0.0012, 0.0025, 0.005 and 0.01 mg/kg; intraperitoneal) and (0.03, 0.1, 0.3 and 0.6 ng/mouse; intracerebroventricular). In addition, locomotor activity was reduced when higher doses of nicotine [both intraperitoneal (0.02, 0.03 and 0.1 mg/kg) and intracerebroventricular (10 and 24 ng/mouse)] were used. Nicotine alone, however, did not cause motivational effects. Intracerebroventricular injection of hexamethonium (0.03, 0.1 and 0.3 mug/mouse; 10 min before nicotine) diminished the effects of nicotine on morphine-induced conditioned place preference. This effect could neither be obtained by intraperitoneal administration of hexamethonium (1, 5 and 10 mg/kg; 30 min before nicotine), nor be reproduced after either intracerebroventricular or intraperitoneal injection of atropine (a muscarinic receptor antagonist). The antagonists, themselves, did not show any motivational effects when used alone and were unable to affect the expression of morphine-induced conditioned place preference. It appears that ultra-low doses of nicotine can reduce the expression of morphine-induced place preference, and that central nicotinic acetylcholine receptors play a role in this regard.
Adolescent alcohol abusers display subtle attention impairments. This study used a two-choice reaction time task to examine the effects of ethanol on sustained attention following adult or adolescent exposure. Sprague-Dawley rats were exposed to ethanol vapor for 14 days starting on postnatal day 30 (adolescence) or 60-64 (adulthood) and were then trained to perform the two-choice reaction time task. Ethanol exposure resulted in blood ethanol levels averaging 215 mg/dl. Behavior following adult ethanol exposure was characterized by increased accuracy and omissions during the two-choice reaction time task, reduced fixed ratio lever pressing, and reductions in the highest fixed ratio completed on a progressive ratio schedule. Adolescent ethanol exposure transiently increased two-choice reaction time accuracy and slightly reduced fixed ratio lever presses. Improved accuracy was unexpected, but might be related to ethanol-induced increases in central nervous system arousal and/or mild behavioral perseveration. Increased omissions, reduced lever pressing, and reductions in the highest fixed ratios completed most likely reflect decreased 'motivation to work' and index generalized anhedonia. This study is the first to demonstrate that rats exposed to ethanol during adulthood are more sensitive to the effects of ethanol on sustained attention than rats exposed to ethanol during adolescence and to ethanol-induced anhedonia, as indexed by two-choice reaction time performance.
Long-term use of antiepileptic drugs is common in the treatment of epilepsy. Clinical reports exist of cognitive impairment attributed to antiepileptic drugs. Hence, this study evaluates the effect of chronic administration of one antiepileptic drug, ethosuximide, on spatial and fear learning and memory in nonepileptic rats. High performance liquid chromatography with electrochemical detection was used for quantification of glutamate, glycine, taurine, gamma-aminobutyric acid, dopamine, and serotonin in the frontal cortex and hippocampus to elucidate the neurobiological basis of the effect of ethosuximide on learning and memory. We found that 21 days of ethosuximide treatment produced negative effects on fear memory (passive avoidance) at all doses (100, 200 and 250 mg/kg body weight), but had no effect on spatial learning (T-maze). Fear memory impairment was associated with decreased hippocampal dopamine levels. Ethosuximide (at all doses) had a minimal effect on the GABAergic and glutamatergic systems in all brain regions studied, with the exception of elevated levels of gamma-aminobutyric acid in the frontal cortex with the 250 mg/kg body weight dose. We have shown that long-term administration of ethosuximide adversely affects fear memory, but does not affect spatial learning and memory.
Throughput is a corrected response rate measure giving the number of successes per unit of discretionary time. It is a simple but general index applicable to psychomotor, behavioral, and cognitive tasks in which response times are measured. This measure has several attractive features: (1) It allows comparisons to be made across various tasks in which speed and accuracy are meaningful and measurable, independently of temporal differences in hardware, software, and procedures; (2) under conditions in which both speed and accuracy decline (or improve), throughput will be a more sensitive index of performance than either alone will be; and (3) in those tasks in which the speed-accuracy trade-off phenomenon operates, throughput will tend to be relatively less variable than either component alone will be. The measure allows both behavioral and information-processing interpretations of data and may be useful as a simple composite index, a measure of effectiveness or of cognitive efficiency [corrected] in studies investigating performance degradation or enhancement.
I present a proposal for a laboratory practice to generate and analyze data from a saturation equilibrium binding experiment addressed to advanced undergraduate students. [(3) H]Quinuclidinyl benzilate is a nonselective muscarinic ligand with very high affinity and very low nonspecific binding to brain membranes, which contain a high density of muscarinic receptors. These features allow the instructor to devote especial emphasis to evaluate ligand depletion, and therefore, stress the subtle but fundamental difference between total (added) ligand and free ligand concentration at equilibrium.
Neurotransmitter release at chemical synapses occurs when synaptic vesicles fuse to the presynaptic membrane at a specialized site termed the active zone. The depolarization-induced fusion is highly dependent on calcium ions, and, correspondingly, the transmission characteristics of synapses are thought to be influenced by the spatial arrangement of voltage-gated calcium channels with respect to vesicle release sites. Here, we review the involvement of the Drosophila Bruchpilot (BRP) protein in active zone assembly, a process that is required for the clustering of presynaptic calcium channels to ensure efficient vesicle release.
Ca2+ influx through the NMDA (N-methyl-D-aspartate) subtype of ionotropic glutamate receptors plays a Jekyll and Hyde role in the mammalian central nervous system. While it mediates excitotoxic death triggered by stroke and other acute trauma, there is growing evidence that physiological levels of NMDA receptor activity promote survival. Understanding the mechanisms that underlie these opposing effects may lead to strategies to selectively block pro-death signalling, which could have considerable clinical benefits.
Kainate receptors are composed of several subunits and splice variants, but the relevance of this diversity is still not well understood. The subunits and splice variants show great divergence in their C-terminal cytoplasmic tail region, which has been identified as a region of interaction with a number of protein partners. Differential trafficking of kainate receptors to neuronal compartments is likely to rely on interactions with distinct subsets of protein partners. This review summarizes our knowledge of the regulation of trafficking of kainate receptors and focuses on the identification and characterization of functions of interacting partners.
Nicotinic ACh (acetylcholine) and 5-HT3 (5-hydroxytryptamine type-3) receptors are cation-selective ion channels of the Cys-loop transmitter-gated ion channel superfamily. Numerous lines of evidence indicate that the channel lining domain of such receptors is formed by the alpha-helical M2 domain (second transmembrane domain) contributed by each of five subunits present within the receptor complex. Specific amino acid residues within the M2 domain have accordingly been demonstrated to influence both single-channel conductance (gamma) and ion selectivity. However, it is now clear from work performed on the homomeric 5-HT3A receptor, heteromeric 5-HT3A/5-HT3B receptor and 5-HT3A/5-HT3B receptor subunit chimaeric constructs that an additional major determinant of gamma resides within a cytoplasmic domain of the receptor termed the MA-stretch (membrane-associated stretch). The MA-stretch, within the M3-M4 loop, is not traditionally thought to be implicated in ion permeation and selection. Here, we describe how such observations extend to a representative neuronal nicotinic ACh receptor composed of alpha4 and beta2 subunits and, by inference, probably other members of the Cys-loop family. In addition, we will attempt to interpret our results within the context of a recently developed atomic scale model of the nicotinic ACh receptor of Torpedo marmorata (marbled electric ray).
Maintaining the correct balance in neuronal activation is of paramount importance to normal brain function. Imbalances due to changes in excitation or inhibition can lead to a variety of disorders ranging from the clinically extreme (e.g. epilepsy) to the more subtle (e.g. anxiety). In the brain, the most common inhibitory synapses are regulated by GABAA (gamma-aminobutyric acid type A) receptors, a role commensurate with their importance as therapeutic targets. Remarkably, we still know relatively little about GABAA receptor biogenesis. Receptors are constructed as pentameric ion channels, with alpha and beta subunits being the minimal requirement, and the incorporation of a gamma subunit being necessary for benzodiazepine modulation and synaptic targeting. Insights have been provided by the discovery of several specific assembly signals within different GABAA receptor subunits. Moreover, a number of recent studies on GABAA receptor mutations associated with epilepsy have further enhanced our understanding of GABAA receptor biogenesis, structure and function.
Intraneuronal inclusion bodies are key pathological features of most age-related neurodegenerative disorders including Parkinson's disease and Alzheimer's disease. These inclusions are commonly characterized both by the presence of ubiquitinated proteins and the sequestration of components of the UPS (ubiquitin-proteasome system). Unfortunately, as we age, the efficiency of the UPS declines, suggesting that the presence of ubiquitinated proteins and UPS components in inclusions may reflect unsuccessful attempts by the (failing) UPS to remove the aggregating proteins. Whether the physical presence of inclusions causes cell death or, conversely, whether they are non-toxic and their presence reflects a cellular protective mechanism remains highly controversial. Animal and in vitro model systems that allow detailed characterization of the inclusions and their effects on the cell have been developed by us and others. Identification of the mechanisms involved in inclusion formation is already aiding the development of novel therapeutic strategies to prevent or alleviate aggregate-associated neurodegenerative diseases.
Neuronal homoeostasis requires a constant balance between biosynthetic and catabolic processes. Eukaryotic cells primarily use two distinct mechanisms for degradation: the proteasome and autophagy of aggregates by the lysosomes. We focused on the UPS (ubiquitin-proteasome system). As a result of molecular misreading, misframed UBB (ubiquitin B) (UBB+1) is generated. UBB+1 accumulates in the neuritic plaques and neurofibrillary tangles in all patients with AD (Alzheimer's disease) and in the neuronal and glial hallmarks of other tauopathies and in polyglutamine diseases such as Huntington's disease. UBB+1 is not present in synucleinopathies such as Parkinson's disease. We showed that UBB+1 causes UPS dysfunction, aggregation and apoptotic cell death. UBB+1 is also present in non-neurological cells, hepatocytes of the diseased liver and in muscles during inclusion body myositis. Other frequently occurring (age-related) diseases such as Type 2 (non-insulin-dependent) diabetes mellitus are currently under investigation. These findings point to the importance of the UPS in diseases and open new avenues for target identification of the main players of the UPS. Treatment of these diseases with tools (e.g. viral RNA interference constructs) to intervene with specific targets is the next step.
Exocytosis is a highly ordered vesicle trafficking pathway that targets proteins to the plasma membrane for membrane addition or secretion. Research over the years has discovered many proteins that participate at various stages in the mammalian exocytotic pathway. At the early stage of exocytosis, co-atomer proteins and their respective adaptors and GTPases have been shown to play a role in the sorting and incorporation of proteins into secretory vesicles. At the final stage of exocytosis, SNAREs (soluble N-ethylmaleimide-sensitive fusion protein attachment protein receptor) and SNARE-associated proteins are believed to mediate the fusion of secretory vesicles at the plasma membrane. There are multiple events that may occur between the budding of secretory vesicles from the Golgi and the fusion of these vesicles at the plasma membrane. The most obvious and best-known event is the transport of secretory vesicles from Golgi to the vicinity of the plasma membrane via microtubules and their associated motors. At the vicinity of the plasma membrane, however, it is not clear how vesicles finally dock and fuse with the plasma membrane. Identification of proteins involved in these events should provide important insights into the mechanisms of this little known stage of the exocytotic pathway. Currently, a protein complex, known as the sec6/8 or the exocyst complex, has been implicated to play a role at this late stage of exocytosis.
The Herpes Simplex Virus thymidine kinase (HSV-tk) suicide gene/ganciclovir (GCV) approach has been used for the treatment of a variety of cancers. The purpose of the present study was to evaluate the cytotoxic effect of ganciclovir in oral squamous cancer cells, previously transfected with HSV-tk gene delivered by transferrin-associated complexes (Tf-lipoplexes), as well as to investigate the mechanisms involved in the bystander effect and in the process of cell death. The delivery of HSV-tk gene to the oral cancer cells, HSC-3 and SCC-7, mediated by Tf-lipoplexes followed by ganciclovir treatment resulted in essentially 100% cytotoxicity, the observed toxic effect being dependent both on GCV dose and incubation time. Cell death was shown to occur mainly by an apoptotic process. Different experimental approaches demonstrated that the observed cytotoxicity was mainly due to diffusion of the toxic agent into neighbouring, non-transfected cells, via gap junctions. Preliminary in vivo studies in a murine model for oral squamous cell carcinoma have shown a significant inhibition of tumor growth upon injection of Tf-lipoplexes carrying HSV-tk followed by intraperitonal injection of GCV, as compared to controls.
One of the pathological hallmarks of ALS is the presence of axonal spheroids and perikaryal accumulations/aggregations comprised of the neuronal intermediate filament proteins, neurofilaments and peripherin. These abnormalities represent a point of convergence of both familial and sporadic forms of the disease and understanding their formation may reveal shared pathways in what is otherwise considered a highly heterogeneous disorder. Here we provide a review of the basic biology of neurofilaments and peripherin and the evidence linking them with ALS disease pathogenesis.
Most secretory cells undergoing calcium-regulated exocytosis in response to cell surface receptor stimulation display a dense subplasmalemmal actin network, which is remodeled during the exocytotic process. This review summarizes new insights into the role of the cortical actin cytoskeleton in exocytosis. Many earlier findings support the actin-physical-barrier model whereby transient depolymerization of cortical actin filaments permits vesicles to gain access to their appropriate docking and fusion sites at the plasma membrane. On the other hand, data from our laboratory and others now indicate that actin polymerization also plays a positive role in the exocytotic process. Here, we discuss the potential functions attributed to the actin cytoskeleton at each major step of the exocytotic process, including recruitment, docking and fusion of secretory granules with the plasma membrane. Moreover, we present actin-binding proteins, which are likely to link actin organization to calcium signals along the exocytotic pathway. The results cited in this review are derived primarily from investigations of the adrenal medullary chromaffin cell, a cell model that is since many years a source of information concerning the molecular machinery underlying exocytosis.
The cause(s) of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is not fully understood in the vast majority of cases and the mechanisms involved in motor neuron degeneration are multi-factorial and complex. There is substantial evidence to support the hypothesis that oxidative stress is one mechanism by which motor neuron death occurs. This theory becomes more persuasive with the discovery that mutation of the anti-oxidant enzyme, superoxide dismutase 1 (SOD1), causes disease in a significant minority of cases. However, the precise mechanism(s) by which mutant SOD1 leads to motor neuron degeneration have not been defined with certainty, and trials of anti-oxidant therapies have been disappointing. Here, we review the evidence implicating oxidative stress in ALS pathogenesis, discuss how oxidative stress may affect and be affected by other proposed mechanisms of neurodegeneration, and review the trials of various anti-oxidants as potential therapies for ALS.
Alpha-conotoxins (alpha-CTxs) are small peptides that are competitive inhibitors of nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (nAChRs) and have been used to study the kinetics of nAChRs. Alpha-CTx MII, from the venom of Conus magus, has been shown to potently block both rat alpha3beta2 and rat chimeric alpha6/alpha3beta2beta3 cloned nAChRs expressed in Xenopus oocytes. Tetramethylrhodamine (TMR), Bodipy FL, Alexa Fluor 488, and terbium chelates (TbCh) are fluorescent molecules that can be reacted with the N-terminus of the conopeptide to produce fluorescent conjugates. TMR and Bodipy FL were individually conjugated to alpha-CTx MII using different succinimidyl ester amine labeling reactions resulting in the formation of carboxamide conjugates. Alexa Fluor 488 succinimidyl ester conjugation reaction yielded low amounts of conjugate. TbCh was also individually reacted with the N-terminus of MII using the isothiocyanate conjugation reaction resulting in the formation of a thiourea conjugate. The conjugates were purified using reverse-phase high-pressure liquid chromatography (RP-HPLC) and their masses verified by matrix-assisted laser desorption-ionization with time-of-flight mass spectroscopy (MALDI-TOF MS). When tested on target nAChRs expressed in Xenopus oocytes, TMR-MII, Bodipy FL-MII, and TbCh-MII potently blocked the response to acetylcholine with slow off-rate kinetics. These fluorescent conjugates can be used to localize specific subtypes of neuronal nAChRs or ligand-binding sites within receptors in various tissue preparations; additionally, they may also be used to study conformational changes in receptors using fluorescence or lanthanide-based resonance energy transfer.


The complement system is a central player of the innate immune system. Activation of the complement system protects the host against pathogens. However, uncontrolled synthesis can be detrimental to host. This concise review summarizes the current understanding of the mechanism(s) of complement activation, the mechanism of C3 regulation, and the role of complement in human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) pathogenesis with emphasis on the cross-talk between HIV and complement system in NeuroAIDS and HIV-associated nephropathy (HIVAN).
In this work, protein-glutathione mixed disulfide formation in human red blood cells (RBCs) was evaluated in vitro by using the thiol-specific reagent diamide. We investigated what mechanism could lead to S-glutathionylation of membrane skeletal proteins, what are the main target proteins, and the correlation between protein S-glutathionylation and RBC hemolysis. Diamide caused a decrease in the reduced form of glutathione (GSH), which was accompanied by an increase in the basal level of glutathione disulfide (GSSG) and in S-glutathionylation of protein 4.2 and spectrin. The increase in membrane skeletal protein S-glutathionylation was correlated with a lower susceptibility of RBCs to osmotic hemolysis, suggesting that S-glutathionylation of protein 4.2 and spectrin could contribute to regulate RBC membrane stability.



The time-scale of hippocampal involvement in supporting episodic memory remains a keenly debated topic, with disagreement over whether its role is temporary or permanent. Recently, there has been interest in how navigation by hippocampally-compromised patients in environments learned long ago speaks to this issue. However, identifying patients with damage that is primarily hippocampal, control subjects matched for navigation experience, and testing their in situ navigation, present substantial problems. We met these challenges by using a highly accurate and interactive virtual reality simulation of central London (UK) to assess the navigation ability of a licensed London taxi driver who had sustained bilateral hippocampal damage. In this test, patient TT and matched control taxi drivers drove a virtual London taxi along the streets they had first learned 40 years before. We found that the hippocampus is not required for general orientation in the city either in first person or survey perspectives, detailed topographical knowledge of landmarks and their spatial relationships, or even for active navigation along some routes. However, in his navigation TT was very reliant on main artery or 'A' roads, and became lost when navigation depended instead on non-A roads. We conclude that the hippocampus in humans is necessary for facilitating navigation in places learned long ago, particularly where complex large-scale spaces are concerned, and successful navigation requires access to detailed spatial representations.
Frontotemporal lobar degeneration (FTLD) refers to a focal, non-Alzheimer form of cerebral degeneration that encompasses the distinct clinical syndromes of frontotemporal dementia (FTD), progressive non-fluent aphasia (PNFA) and semantic dementia. Some patients show tau-based pathological changes and in familial cases mutations have been identified in the microtubule-associated protein tau gene (MAPT) on chromosome 17q21. However, many cases are tau-negative, showing instead ubiquitin-immunoreactive (UBQ-ir) neuronal cytoplasmic inclusions and neurites, and in some familial cases UBQ-ir neuronal intranuclear inclusions of a lentiform appearance. Very recently, mutations have been identified in familial cases in the progranulin (PGRN) gene, also on chromosome 17q21. Clinical, pathological and molecular diversity within FTLD highlights the importance of careful examination of clinical-pathological-genetic relationships. This paper reports, for the first time, a clinico-pathological investigation of two FTLD families with PGRN mutations, and compares the clinical characteristics with those of patients studied in the department with MAPT mutations. The clinical profile associated with PGRN mutations constituted, in some patients, a prototypical picture of FTD and in others one of PNFA, both profiles occurring within the same family. Patients with PGRN mutations exhibited phonological deficits, whereas in patients with MAPT mutations language abnormalities, when present in addition to the prominent behavioural disorder, take the form of semantic disturbance. The findings provide compelling evidence for the link between FTD and PNFA, while raising the possibility of identifiable clinical differences between FTLD patients with MAPT and PGRN mutations.
Recent studies have suggested an important relationship linking cytokines, immunity and aggressive behavior. Clinical reports describe increasing levels of hostility, anger, and irritability in patients who receive cytokine immunotherapy, and there are reports of a positive correlation between cytokine levels and aggressive behavior in non-patient populations. On the basis of these reports and others describing the presence or actions of different cytokines in regions of the brain associated with aggressive behavior, our laboratory embarked upon a program of research designed to identify and characterize the role of IL-1 and IL-2 in the hypothalamus and midbrain periaqueductal gray (PAG)--two regions functionally linked through reciprocal anatomical connections--in the regulation of feline defensive rage. A paradigm involved cytokine microinjections into either medial hypothalamus and elicitation of defensive rage behavior from the PAG or vice versa. These studies have revealed that both cytokines have potent effects in modulating defensive rage behavior. With respect to IL-1, this cytokine facilitates defensive rage when microinjected into either the medial hypothalamus or PAG and these potentiating effects are mediated through 5-HT2 receptors. In contrast, the effects of IL-2 are dependent upon the anatomical locus. IL-2 microinjected into the medial hypothalamus suppresses defensive rage and this suppression is mediated through GABA(A) receptors, while microinjections of IL-2 in the PAG potentiate defensive rage, in which these effects are mediated through NK-1 receptors. Present research is designed to further delineate the roles of cytokines in aggressive behavior and to begin to unravel the possible signaling pathways involved this process.
Peripheral immune activation results in physiological and behavioral responses including changes in the level of behavioral arousal. One mechanism through which immune activation can influence these responses is via actions on brainstem neuromodulatory systems, including serotonergic systems. To investigate the effects of peripheral immune activation on serotonergic systems and behavior, and the potential role of prostanoids in mediating these effects, we compared the effects of intraperitoneal injections of lipopolysaccharide (LPS), in the presence or absence of the cyclooxygenase inhibitor indomethacin, on total plasma L-tryptophan concentrations, Fos expression in subdivisions of the brainstem raphe complex, and home cage behaviors. Peripheral LPS administration had no effect on total plasma L-tryptophan concentrations but increased Fos expression in serotonergic neurons selectively within the interfascicular (DRI) and ventrolateral (DRVL) subdivisions of the dorsal raphe nucleus 4 h following treatment; pretreatment with indomethacin blocked the LPS-induced increases in Fos expression within the DRI and DRVL. Peripheral LPS administration decreased measures of behavioral arousal including locomotion, rearing, climbing, and self-grooming; LPS administration had no effect on these behaviors in mice pretreated with indomethacin. The indomethacin-sensitive effects of LPS on Fos expression in the DRI may be due to selective activation of Type II serotonergic neurons which are largely restricted to the DRI region and have unique afferent regulatory mechanisms and behavioral correlates. Further studies of the effects of peripheral immune activation on DRI serotonergic systems may lead to a better understanding of the relationships among immune function, serotonergic systems, and behavior.




While learning and memory are related, they are distinct processes each with different forms of expression and underlying molecular mechanisms. An invertebrate model system, Lymnaea stagnalis, is used to study memory formation of a non-declarative memory. We have done so because: (1) We have discovered the neural circuit that mediates an interesting and tractable behaviour; (2) This behaviour can be operantly conditioned and intermediate-term and long-term memory can be demonstrated; and (3) It is possible to demonstrate that a single neuron in the model system is a necessary site of memory formation. This article reviews how Lymnaea has been used in the study of behavioural and molecular mechanisms underlying consolidation, reconsolidation, extinction and forgetting.
Major findings from the past 55 years of psychological treatment research indicate that 3 questions are now pivotal to continued practice-relevant progress: What is the nature of the problem(s) to be treated? What are the causal change mechanisms of efficacious psychological treatments? Can more efficient and broadly effective psychological treatments be developed? Contemporary cognitive, affective, and behavioural neurosciences offer particularly promising resources for psychological treatment research that can help accelerate progress regarding these questions. This article explains why the questions are pivotal and presents neuroscience findings to illustrate how progress can be made on each one and for diverse problems and disorders such as major depression, posttraumatic stress disorder, obsessive-compulsive disorder, drug addiction, and regulation of negative affect.
Homeless youth present significant challenges both to youth workers and policy-makers seeking to develop better prevention and intervention strategies. This article discusses the compelling need for researchers and policy-makers to make efforts to work collaboratively to develop improved social policy informed by research findings.
Amyloid precursor protein (APP) and amyloid precursor-like proteins 1 and 2 (APLP1 and APLP2) are members of a large gene family. Although APP is known to be the source of the beta-amyloid peptides involved in the development of Alzheimer's disease, the normal functions of APP, APLP1 and APLP2 in cells are poorly understood. In this study, we carried out gene silencing analysis by means of RNA interference with synthetic small interfering RNA duplexes targeting the App, Aplp1 and Aplp2 genes in Neuro2a (N2a) cells, a mouse neuroblastoma cell line. The results demonstrated that cell viability and neurite outgrowth of N2a cells undergoing knockdown of Aplp1 were significantly reduced, compared with N2a cells undergoing knockdown of either App or Aplp2.
Expression of the viral protein R, Vpr, of HIV-1 affects many biological events in host cells including cell cycle progression, and modulates HIV-1 gene transcription. Earlier studies implicating the cellular protein p21(WAF1) (p21) in regulation of HIV-1 transcription, led us to investigate the functional and physical interaction of Vpr and p21. Our results show that Vpr modestly activated HIV-LTR in cells lacking p21 gene. Here, we describe the mechanisms by which p21 and Vpr leading to stimulation of HIV-1 transcription. Data from the protein-protein interaction experiments revealed the ability of Vpr, p21 and p300 to form a complex. Further, we show that, Vpr interacts with the N- and the C-terminal domains of p21. Furthermore, in cells expressing Vpr, p21 localizes to both the cytoplasm and the nucleus. Interestingly, expression of Vpr alleviates p21-mediated inhibition of cell departure from G1 phase. Expression of a mutant Vpr, with arginine 73 altered to serine, did not affect the ability of p21 to cause cells arrest or its sub-cellular localization. These observations reveal a new cellular partner for Vpr, and provide a new therapeutic avenue for controlling HIV-1 expression.
Recent work has uncovered a functional link between polycystin-1 (PC1), the protein affected in autosomal-dominant polycystic kidney disease (ADPKD) and tuberin, the protein affected in tuberous sclerosis complex (TSC). These data suggest that PC1 functions by inducing the formation of a complex with tuberin and the Ser/Thr kinase mTOR thereby inhibiting mTOR activity. In normal, adult kidney, mTOR is inactive. However, it is activated in response to insults and required for proliferative and hyperthrophic repair processes. We propose a model in which the PC1-tuberin-mTOR complex functions to sense renal insults, possibly by ciliary mechanotransduction, and regulates the activity of mTOR to trigger a formal repair program. In ADPKD, defects in PC1 would lead to constitutive activation of mTOR, and the affected cells would be engaged in a permanent state of futile repair leading to the formation and growth of renal cysts. The mTOR inhibitor rapamycin has proven highly effective in preventing and even reversing cyst growth in rodent models of polycystic kidney disease resulting in preservation of renal function. mTOR inhibitors, already in clinical use as immunosuppressants, may therefore be promising for future therapeutic approaches for ADPKD.
Autophagic and proteasomal proteolysis are two major pathways for degradation of cellular constituents. Current models suggest that autophagy is responsible for the nonselective bulk degradation of long-lived proteins and organelles while the proteasome specifically degrades short-lived proteins including misfolded proteins caused by the absence of Hsp90 function. Here, we show that the IkappaB kinase (IKK), an essential activator of NF-kappaB, is selectively degraded by autophagy when Hsp90 is inhibited by geldanamycin (GA), a specific Hsp90 inhibitor showing highly effective anti-tumor activity. We find that in this case inactivation of ubiquitination or proteasome fails to block IKK degradation. However, inhibition of autophagy by an autophagy inhibitor or knockout of Atg5, a key component of the autophagy pathway, significantly rescues IKK from GA-induced degradation. These findings provide the first evidence that an Hsp90 client may be degraded by a mechanism different from the proteasome pathway and establish a molecular link among Hsp90, NF-kappaB and autophagy.
Rho GTPases are molecular switches involved in the regulation of many cellular processes. This review summarizes work examining how stimulation of receptor tyrosine kinases (RTKs) leads to the activation of Rho guanine nucleotide exchange factors (GEFs) and their Rho GTPase substrates. The collective findings strongly suggest that RTK signaling to Rho proteins is a general signal transduction mechanism, like RTK mediated activation of phosphatidyl inositol 3-kinase, phospholipase Cgamma, and the mitogen activated protein kinase (MAPK) pathway. More than half of the 58 known human RTKs activate at least one Rho family member. Likewise, 16 Rho GEFs directly interact with and/or are phosphorylated by a RTK. The specificity of receptor tyrosine kinase/Rho GEF signaling seems to be somewhat promiscuous. There several cases where multiple RTKs activate the same Rho GEF and where a single RTK can activate multiple Rho GEFs. Expression analysis indicates that the average human tissue contains transcripts for 33 RTKs, 34 Rho GEFs, and 14 Rho GTPases with each tissue containing a unique complement of these proteins. Given the promiscuity of RTKs for Rho GEFs, Rho GEFs for Rho GTPases, and the large number of these proteins expressed in cells, a complex combinatorial network of proteins in these families may contribute to coding specific signals and cell responses from RTKs.

Synapses are the key elements for signal transduction and plasticity in the brain. For a better understanding of the functional signal cascades underlying synaptic transmission, a quantitative morphological analysis of the pre- and postsynaptic structures that represent morphological correlates for synaptic transmission is important. In particular, realistic values of the number, distribution, and geometry of synaptic contacts and the organization of the pool of synaptic vesicles provide important constraints for realistic models and numerical simulations of those parameters of synaptic transmission that, at present, are still not accessible to experiment. Although all synapses are composed of almost the same structural elements, the composition of these elements within a given synapse and the microcircuit in which they are embedded are the deciding factors determining its function. One possible way to analyze these structures is by computer-assisted three-dimensional reconstructions of synapses and their subsequent quantitative analysis based on ultrathin serial sections. The present review summarizes and discusses the morphology of five central excitatory synapses that are quantitatively well described: (1) a giant synapse, the so-called Calyx of Held, in the medial nucleus of the trapezoid body in the auditory brain stem, (2) the mossy fiber terminal establishing synapses with multiple cerebellar granule cell dendrites, (3) the mossy fiber bouton in the hippocampus predominantly terminating on proximal dendrites of CA3 pyramidal neurons, (4) the climbing fiber-Purkinje cell synapse in the cerebellum, and (5) cortical input synapses on the basal dendrites of layer 5 pyramidal cells. The detailed morphological description of these synaptic structures may help to define the morphological correlates of the functional parameters of synaptic transmission, such as the readily releasable pool of synaptic vesicles, of release, and of the variability of quantal size and might therefore explain the existing differences in the function between individual synapses embedded in different microcircuits.
Gap-junction-dependent neuronal communication is widespread in the developing brain, and the prevalence of gap-junctional coupling is well correlated with specific developmental events. We summarize here our current knowledge of the contribution of gap junctions to brain development and propose that they carry out this role by taking advantage of the full complement of their functional properties. Thus, hemichannel activation may represent a key step in the initiation of Ca(2+) waves that coordinate cell cycle events during early prenatal neurogenesis, whereas both hemichannels and/or gap junctions may control the division and migration of cohorts of precursor cells during late prenatal neurogenesis. Finally, the recent discovery that pannexins, a novel group of proteins prominently expressed in the brain, are able to form both hemichannels and gap-junction channels suggests that we need to seek more than just connexins with respect to these junctions.
The glutamatergic synapses of developing neuromuscular junctions (NMJ) of Drosophila larvae are readily accessible, morphologically simple, and physiologically well-characterized. They therefore have a long and highly successful tradition as a model system for the discovery of genetic and molecular mechanisms of target recognition, synaptogenesis, NMJ development, and synaptic plasticity. However, since the development and the activity-dependent refinement of NMJs are concurrent processes, they cannot easily be separated by the widely applied genetic manipulations that mostly have chronic effects. Recent studies have therefore begun systematically to incorporate larval foraging behavior into the physiological and genetic analysis of NMJ function in order to analyze potential experience-dependent changes of glutamatergic transmission. These studies have revealed that recent crawling experience is a potent modulator of glutamatergic transmission at NMJs, because high crawling activities result after an initial lag-phase in several subsequent phases of experience-dependent synaptic potentiation. Depending on the time window of occurrence, four distinct phases of experience-dependent potentiation have been defined. These phases of potentiation can be followed from their initial induction (phase-I) up to the morphological consolidation (phase-III/IV) of previously established functional changes (phase-II). This therefore establishes, for the first time, a temporal hierarchy of mechanisms involved in the use-dependent modification of glutamatergic synapses.
Kainate receptors form a family of ionotropic glutamate receptors that appear to play a special role in the regulation of the activity of synaptic networks. This review first describes briefly the molecular and pharmacological properties of native and recombinant kainate receptors. It then attempts to outline the general principles that appear to govern the function of kainate receptors in the activity of synaptic networks under physiological conditions. It subsequently describes the way that kainate receptors are involved in synaptic integration, synaptic plasticity, the regulation of neurotransmitter release and the control of neuronal excitability, and the manner in which they might play an important role in synaptogenesis and synaptic maturation. These functions require the proper subcellular localization of kainate receptors in specific functional domains of the neuron, necessitating complex cellular and molecular trafficking events. We show that our comprehension of these mechanisms is just starting to emerge. Finally, this review presents evidence that implicates kainate receptors in pathophysiological conditions such as epilepsy, excitotoxicity and pain, and that shows that these receptors represent promising therapeutic targets.
The 5-HT(3) receptor is a ligand-gated ion channel activated by serotonin (5-HT). Although originally identified in the peripheral nervous system, the 5-HT(3) receptor is also ubiquitously expressed in the central nervous system. Sites of expression include several brain stem nuclei and higher cortical areas such as the amygdala, hippocampus, and cortex. On the subcellular level, both presynaptic and postsynaptic 5-HT(3) receptors can be found. Presynaptic 5-HT(3) receptors are involved in mediating or modulating neurotransmitter release. Postsynaptic 5-HT(3) receptors are preferentially expressed on interneurons. In view of this specific expression pattern and of the well-established role of 5-HT as a neurotransmitter shaping development, we speculate that 5-HT(3) receptors play a role in the formation and function of cortical circuits.
Whereas the regenerative nature of action potential conduction in axons has been known since the late 1940s, neuronal dendrites have been considered as passive cables transferring incoming synaptic activity to the soma. The relatively recent discovery that neuronal dendrites contain active conductances has revolutionized our view of information processing in neurons. In many neuronal cell types, sodium action potentials initiated at the axon initial segment can back-propagate actively into the dendrite thereby serving, for the dendrite, as an indicator of the output activity of the neuron. In addition, the dendrites themselves can initiate action-potential-like regenerative responses, so-called dendritic spikes, that are mediated either by the activation of sodium, calcium, and/or N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor channels. Here, we review the recent experimental and theoretical evidence for a role of regenerative dendritic activity in information processing within neurons and, especially, in activity-dependent synaptic plasticity.
Deciphering the function of synaptic release sites is central to understanding neuronal communication. Here, we review studies of the lamprey giant reticulospinal synapse, a model that can be used to dissect synaptic vesicle trafficking at single release sites. The presynaptic axon is large and contains active zones that are spatially separated from each other. During activity, synaptic vesicle membrane is shuttled between the active zone and the periactive zone at which endocytosis occurs. Recent studies have shown that the periactive zone contains an actin-rich cytomatrix that expands during synaptic activity. This cytomatrix has been implicated in multiple functions that include (1) activity-dependent trafficking of proteins between the synaptic vesicle cluster and the periactive zone, (2) synaptic vesicle endocytosis, and (3) the movement of newly formed synaptic vesicles to the vesicle cluster. The actin cytomatrix thus provides a link between the active zone and the periactive zone; this link appears to be critical for sustained cycling of synaptic vesicles.
The renin-angiotensin system (RAS) is one of the best-studied enzyme-neuropeptide systems in the brain and can serve as a model for the action of peptides on neuronal function in general. It is now well established that the brain has its own intrinsic RAS with all its components present in the central nervous system. The RAS generates a family of bioactive angiotensin peptides with variable biological and neurobiological activities. These include angiotensin-(1-8) [Ang II], angiotensin-(3-8) [Ang IV], and angiotensin-(1-7) [Ang-(1-7)]. These neuroactive forms of angiotensin act through specific receptors. Only Ang II acts through two different high-specific receptors, termed AT1 and AT2. Neuronal AT1 receptors mediate the stimulatory actions of Ang II on blood pressure, water and salt intake, and the secretion of vasopressin. In contrast, neuronal AT2 receptors have been implicated in the stimulation of apoptosis and as being antagonistic to AT1 receptors. Among the many potential effects mediated by stimulation of AT2 are neuronal regeneration after injury and the inhibition of pathological growth. Ang-(1-7) mediates its antihypertensive effects by stimulating the synthesis and release of vasodilator prostaglandins and nitric oxide and by potentiating the hypotensive effects of bradykinin. New data concerning the roles of Ang IV and Ang-(1-7) in cognition also support the existence of complex site-specific interactions between multiple angiotensins and multiple receptors in the mediation of important central functions of the RAS. Thus, the RAS of the brain is involved not only in the regulation of blood pressure, but also in the modulation of multiple additional functions in the brain, including processes of sensory information, learning, and memory, and the regulation of emotional responses.
The aim of this study was to compare acupuncture, relaxation training and physical training in the treatment of chronic tension-type headache (CTTH). The study comprised 90 consecutive patients with CTTH who were randomly allocated to acupuncture, relaxation training or physical training. Headache intensity, headache-free days and headache-free periods were registered using a visual analogue scale and a headache diary. The measurements were made 4 weeks before, immediately after, and 3 and 6 months after the treatment period. Immediately after the last treatment, the number of headache-free periods and of headache-free days was higher in the relaxation group compared with the acupuncture group. There were no other significant differences between the groups at any time point. The clinical implications of our findings are that relaxation training induced the most pronounced effects directly after the treatment period, compared with acupuncture and physical training.
In the episodic retrieval (ER) domain, activations in right dorsolateral prefrontal cortex (DLPFC) are often attributed to postretrieval monitoring. Yet, right DLPFC activations are also frequently found during nonmemory tasks. To investigate the role of this region across different cognitive functions, we directly compared brain activity during ER and visual perception (VP) using event-related functional magnetic resonance imaging. In the ER task, participants decided whether words were old or new, whereas in the VP task, they decided which of the two colored screen areas was larger. In both tasks, each decision was followed by a confidence rating. The main finding was that right DLPFC (Brodmann area 46/10) activity was greater for low- than for high-confidence decisions in both tasks, demonstrating a general role in decision making. Even when reaction times (RTs) were included in the model, confidence remained the significant predictor of activity, suggesting that right DLPFC is involved in discontinuous evaluation rather than in continuous monitoring. In contrast, activity in anterior cingulate cortex was not only greater for low-confidence decisions but also increased with RT, reflecting a role in continuous conflict monitoring. Overall, the results demonstrate how direct cross-function comparisons clarify the generality and specificity of the functions of various brain regions.
We examined interactions between frontal, striatal, and hippocampal systems during a rule-learning task. Nineteen healthy young adults solved multiple rule-learning problems requiring hypothesis testing while functional magnetic resonance images were obtained. Activity in the head of the caudate peaked early after the beginning of each problem and then dropped rapidly. In contrast, activity in prefrontal cortex areas reached peak values later. These results are in accordance with theories suggesting that the striatum identifies the behavioral context necessary for the frontal lobe to select an appropriate strategy. Striatal and hippocampal systems showed antagonistic patterns of activity: Activation in the anterior hippocampus decreased, whereas caudate activity increased. Good learners showed higher activity in the body and tail of the caudate than poor learners, whereas learning success correlated negatively with activity in the hippocampus. Activation in the head of the caudate correlated negatively with hippocampal activation, indicating a potential mechanism for hippocampal activity reduction.
Bisensory redundant targets are processed faster than the respective unisensory target stimuli alone as evidenced by substantially faster reaction times (RTs). This multisensory RT facilitation has been interpreted as an expression of integrative processing between the different sensory modalities. However, the neuronal mechanisms underlying the RT facilitation effect are not well understood. Oscillatory responses in the beta frequency range (13-30 Hz) have been related to sensory-motor processing. Here, we investigated whether modulation of beta responses might also underlie the faster RTs seen for multisensory stimuli. Using high-density electrical mapping, we explored the association between early (50-170 ms) multisensory processing in the evoked beta response and RTs recorded during a simple RT task. Subjects were instructed to indicate the appearance of any stimulus in a stream of auditory-alone (A), visual-alone (V), and multisensory (AV) stimuli by a button press. Beta responses were analyzed using Morlet wavelet transformations. Multisensory interactions were found over frontal, occipital, central, and sensory-motor regions. Critically, beta activity correlated with mean RTs over all stimulus types. Significant negative correlations were found for frontal, occipital, and sensory-motor scalp regions. We conclude that the association between oscillatory beta activity and integrative multisensory processing is directly linked to multisensory RT facilitation effects.
There is a growing appreciation for the role of sniffing in the formation of the olfactory percept. With this in mind, monitoring and measurement of sniffing is an important aspect of olfactory experiments. There are several methods for measuring human sniffs concurrent with odor delivery in olfactory experiments. Here, we set out to compare the temporal sensitivity and power of these different methods by applying them all simultaneously with an olfactory task. We discuss the advantages and disadvantages of each method and conclude in recommending the use of a nasal cannula linked to a pressure sensor whenever possible.

Immunization of genetically susceptible strains of mice with heterologous type II collagen leads to the induction of a self-limiting polyarthritis that begins to subside around 10 days after onset of clinical disease. The aims of this study were to compare pro- and anti-inflammatory cytokine expression in the joints during the course of arthritis in order to identify cytokines involved in spontaneous remission of arthritis. DBA/1 mice were immunized with type II collagen and an immunohistochemical analysis of expression of proinflammatory cytokines [tumour necrosis factor (TNF)-alpha, interleukin (IL)-1beta and IL-6] and anti-inflammatory cytokines [IL-10, IL-1ra, transforming growth factor (TGF)-beta1, TGF-beta2 and TGF-beta3] in joints was carried out over the course of the disease. Both pro- and anti-inflammatory cytokines were found to be expressed in early arthritis. However, around 10 days after onset of arthritis, the level of expression of proinflammatory cytokines declined while the level of expression of anti-inflammatory cytokines, particularly TGF-beta1 and TGF-beta2, increased. Surprisingly, TNF-alpha continued to be expressed at low levels during the period of disease remission (30 days after onset). Blockade of TNF-alpha during the period of disease remission had no effect on TGF-beta expression. This study confirms that the level of inflammation in arthritis correlates strongly with the balance of pro- and anti-inflammatory cytokine expression in the joints. Of the anti-inflammatory cytokines studied, TGF-beta1 and TGF-beta2 predominate during the time of disease remission, suggesting that these cytokines are involved in regulating disease activity.
Tardive syndromes are characterized by abnormal involuntary movements that occur after prolonged exposure to drugs that block dopamine receptors. The prevalence and incidence of tardive syndromes are much higher in elderly individuals, and the number of elderly patients receiving antipsychotics has been increasing. This article summarizes the clinical phenomenology, pathophysiology, epidemiology, and treatment of these disorders in elderly individuals.
A substantial body of evidence has accumulated regarding the efficacy and safety of neurosurgery for Parkinson's disease, essential tremor, and dystonia. Surgery for movement disorders (thalamotomy, pallidotomy, and subthalamic nucleotomy or subthalamotomy) was largely ablative (lesion-based). Given the safety and anatomy-preservation advantage, long-term electrical stimulation of these same targets (thalamus, globus pallidus, and subthalamic nucleus) is discussed as the treatment of choice. High-frequency deep brain stimulation procedures replicate the effects of ablative interventions, but do not require making a destructive brain lesion. This article outlines patient eligibility for surgery, targeting techniques, intraoperative findings, and potential complications and discusses the outcomes expected for each of the major interventions for which clinical trial data are available.



Microneurography is a method using metal microelectrodes to investigate directly identified neural traffic in myelinated as well as unmyelinated efferent and afferent nerves leading to and coming from muscle and skin in human peripheral nerves in situ. The present paper reviews how this technique has been used in clinical neurophysiology to elucidate the neural mechanisms of autonomic regulation, motor control and sensory functions in humans under physiological and pathological conditions. Microneurography is particularly important to investigate efferent and afferent neural traffic in unmyelinated C fibers. The recording of efferent discharges in postganglionic sympathetic C efferent fibers innervating muscle and skin (muscle sympathetic nerve activity; MSNA and skin sympathetic nerve activity; SSNA) provides direct information about neural control of autonomic effector organs including blood vessels and sweat glands. Sympathetic microneurography has become a potent tool to reveal neural functions and dysfunctions concerning blood pressure control and thermoregulation. This recording has been used not only in wake conditions but also in sleep to investigate changes in sympathetic neural traffic during sleep and sleep-related events such as sleep apnea. The same recording was also successfully carried out by astronauts during spaceflight. Recordings of afferent discharges from muscle mechanoreceptors have been used to understand the mechanisms of motor control. Muscle spindle afferent information is particularly important for the control of fine precise movements. It may also play important roles to predict behavior outcomes during learning of a motor task. Recordings of discharges in myelinated afferent fibers from skin mechanoreceptors have provided not only objective information about mechanoreceptive cutaneous sensation but also the roles of these signals in fine motor control. Unmyelinated mechanoreceptive afferent discharges from hairy skin seem to be important to convey cutaneous sensation to the central structures related to emotion. Recordings of afferent discharges in thin myelinated and unmyelinated fibers from nociceptors in muscle and skin have been used to provide information concerning pain. Recordings of afferent discharges of different types of cutaneous C-nociceptors identified by marking method have become an important tool to reveal the neural mechanisms of cutaneous sensations such as an itch. No direct microneurographic evidence has been so far proved regarding the effects of sympathoexcitation on sensitization of muscle and skin sensory receptors at least in healthy humans.

To date, the pharmaceutical industry has placed a considerable amount of interest in the discovery of drug targets and diagnostics. One of the most challenging areas of drug discovery today is the search for novel receptor-ligand pairs. Nuclear receptors comprise a large superfamily of ligand-dependent transcription factors that regulate the expression of genes critical for a variety of biological processes, including development, growth, differentiation, and homeostasis. Orphan nuclear receptors, for which the ligands are not yet identified, represent the most ancient component of the nuclear receptor superfamily. Orphan nuclear receptors not only offer a unique system to uncover novel signaling pathways that impact human health, but also provide excellent targets of drug discoveries for a variety of human diseases. This review highlights advances made on ligand identification for orphan nuclear receptors using transgenic mouse models, cell-based screening, direct binding, structure-based assays, and computer-aided virtual screening. With rapid advances in combinatorial chemistry and high throughput screening, along with other modern technologies, this field promises a bountiful harvest.
There is little research on characteristics related to course and prognosis of early-onset psychosis. The present article aims to advance our knowledge of this disorder for the purpose of proper diagnosis and treatment. It focuses on premorbid and prodromal characteristics, treatment history, symptoms and classifications, and differences between subgroups with affective and schizophrenic psychosis. A chart review was constructed to study a group of 129 subjects (12-18 years) with psychotic symptoms referred to the University Medical Center in Utrecht. The group was characterized by early-but nonspecific-treatment, developmental problems (mostly social), and clear prodromal symptoms. Drug abuse, depressive symptoms, and suicidal behavior were also frequent. Male sex, a relatively long prodromal phase, school problems, and drug abuse were more indicative of the schizophrenic subgroup. Introversion was characteristic for boys with schizophrenia. Classifications, however, were not stable. These findings suggest that early recognition of psychosis can be enhanced in health and youth care facilities. Careful examination of the prodromal phase seems helpful to differentiate between schizophrenic and affective psychosis.

Number processing can evoke spatial representations and cause lateralized attention shifts. The article by Wood et al. suggests interesting considerations about the mental space of numbers by pointing to a difference between physical and numerical space processing. We read Wood et al.'s findings in a perspective that takes into consideration a currently debated issue, that is the relation between Simon and SNARC effects. By pointing to a difference between peripheral onsets and numerical targets, indeed, their finding suggests that the hypothesis of a complete overlap between Simon and SNARC effects is less plausible than a partial overlap hypothesis.
Rapid vision loss and explosive inflammation are devastating consequences of Bacillus endophthalmitis that have not been well defined. We therefore analyzed the evolution of intraocular inflammation and loss of retinal architecture and function during experimental Bacillus endophthalmitis. Mice were intravitreally injected with 100 CFU of B. cereus, and eyes were analyzed for bacterial growth, retinal function, architectural changes and retinal cellular stress, inflammatory cytokines, and infiltrating cells. Retinal electrophysiologic and structural changes began as early as 4 to 6 hr postinfection. Significant declines in retinal function paralleled the loss of retinal architecture. Glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) was detected in retina, indicating potential stress. Polymorphonuclear leukocyte (PMN) infiltration into the vitreous began as early as 4 hr postinfection, coinciding with a significant increase in TNF-alpha in the eye. These results indicated that acute inflammation and detrimental architectural and electrophysiologic changes in the retina began earlier than once thought, suggesting that therapeutic intervention should be given at the earliest possible time to avoid vision loss during Bacillus endophthalmitis.

A decade after the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approved intravenous tissue plasminogen activator for treatment of acute ischemic stroke, the public health impact of this treatment on stroke outcome remains limited. The extremely small time window for treatment and very low recanalization rates in large artery strokes are its major shortcomings. Endovascular therapies for the treatment of acute stroke have rapidly evolved during this time period and may overcome these limitations. FDA approval of the Mechanical Embolus Removal in Cerebral Ischemia (MERCI) concentric retriever in August 2004 for the treatment of occluded brain arteries has spurred trials of newer devices for mechanical thrombolysis in acute stroke. At present, there are two major National Institutes of Health-sponsored randomized controlled trials testing endovascular treatments in acute stroke. In this article, we provide an experience-guided review of the current approach to the endovascular treatment of acute ischemic stroke and current evidence for various strategies. We first emphasize the key aspects of patient selection, including the increasingly central role of perfusion/diffusion imaging. The technical aspects of chemical, mechanical, ultrasound-based, and multimodal approaches are provided along with the authors' own experiences. Most of the endovascular modalities tested in clinical trials show recanalization rates in the range of 50% to 65%. However, no one modality is clearly superior. In practice, multimodal treatment strategy is often employed to achieve rapid recanalization of occluded cerebral vessels and minimize chances of hemorrhage. This may become the standard of care in the future.






Photolysis of &quot;caged&quot; compounds is a technique for releasing biologically active compounds in which the timing, rate, and spatial profile of release are controlled by light. Issues relating to the delivery of light for single-photon photolysis are presented. Specific discussions include the theories relating to how light interacts with biological tissue to produce scattering and phototoxicity, as well as the issues involved in choosing the appropriate light source. Several approaches and optical designs are presented for delivering the output of a laser to a microscopic specimen. The criteria for choosing an approach are presented. The commercial sources for the parts needed to build a photolysis system are also provided. This unit will be particularly useful for investigators interested in single-photon photolysis of caged neurotransmitters in brain slices.
Lentiviral vectors have emerged over the last decade as powerful, reliable and safe tools for stable gene transfer in a wide variety of mammalian cells. Unlike other vectors derived from oncoretroviruses, they allow for stable gene delivery into most nondividing primary cells, including neurons. This is why LVs are becoming the most useful and promising tools in the field of neuroscience, not only for research, but also for future gene and cell therapy approaches. Lentivectors (LVs) derived from HIV-1 have gradually evolved to display many desirable features aimed at increasing both their safety and their versatility. These latest designs are reviewed in this unit. This unit also describes protocols for production and titration of LVs that can be implemented in a research laboratory setting, with an emphasis on standardization to improve transposability of results between laboratories.


During segmentation (somitogenesis) in vertebrate embryos, somites form in a rostral-to-caudal sequence according to a species-specific rhythm called the somitogenesis clock. The expression of genes participating in somitogenesis oscillates in the presomitic mesoderm (PSM) in time with this clock. We previously reported that the Dact1 gene (aka Dpr1/Frd1/ThyEx3), which encodes a Dishevelled-binding intracellular regulator of Wnt signaling, is prominently expressed in the PSM as well as in a caudal-rostral gradient across the somites of mouse embryos. This observation led us to examine whether Dact1 expression oscillates in the PSM. We have found that Dact1 PSM expression does indeed oscillate in time with the somitogenesis clock. Consistent with its known signaling functions and with the &quot;clock and wavefront&quot; model of signal regulation during somitogenesis, the oscillation of Dact1 occurs in phase with the Wnt signaling component Axin2, and out of phase with the Notch signaling component Lfng.
Head-cocking of 15 infant marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) was scored from Day 1 to 60 of postnatal life, the growth period with overproduction of interneuronal synapses. Head-cocking was scored during four 30 min intervals daily, including angle of head-cocking and objects being fixated. Mean age of onset of head-cocking was Day 13 (+/-1.3) and frequency increased to a fixed rate by Day 24-29, at the time of maturation of the foveal representation in layer 6 of the visual cortex, thus lending further support to the importance of head-cocking to visual processing. The most common distance of objects fixated during head-cocking was up to .5 m. Angle of head-cocking increased with age, and some asymmetry of direction was noted. Fewer head-cocking events occurred in the morning than in the afternoon. We also scored anogenital licking of offspring. Head-cocking occurred at higher levels in marmosets receiving more anogenital licking. As this was associated positively with increased exploration, head-cocking may be regarded as an exploratory behavior.
Multiple dimensions of adolescents' connectedness with their families were investigated among 489 9th-grade students (M = 14.86 years) from families with Mexican, Chinese, and European backgrounds. Participants reported on various aspects of their family relationships and completed diary checklists of daily behaviors for a 2-week period. Adolescents from European backgrounds reported levels of family identification and dyadic closeness with parents similar to or greater than those reported by their peers. For adolescents from Mexican and Chinese backgrounds, particularly those from immigrant families, family connectedness included a stronger emphasis on family obligation and assistance. The extent to which family demographic variables, including parental level of education and residence in a single-parent family, accounted for group differences was examined.
In this paper, I review some recent submissions to Developmental Science that advance our understanding of psychological development. More and more submissions to the journal explore the origins of knowledge and, for psychological knowledge, such origins are multiple. Here I consider the contribution of mechanisms such as contingency detection, gaze following and gaze monitoring, social referencing and joint attention to emergent psychological understanding. I also consider infant understanding of goal-directed action, and the intimate connection between language acquisition and psychological development. The centrality of intention-reading skills to both language and social cognition is highlighted.
This paper investigates the ability of infants to attend to continuous stimulus variables and how this capacity relates to the representation of number. We examined the change in area needed by 6-month-old infants to detect a difference in the size of a single element (Elmo face). Infants successfully discriminated a 1:4, 1:3 and 1:2 change in the area of the Elmo face but failed to discriminate a 2:3 change. In addition, the novelty preference was linearly related to the ratio difference between the novel and familiar area. Results suggest that Weber's Law holds for area discriminations in infancy and also reveal that at 6 months of age infants are equally sensitive to number, time and area.
At the peripheral neuromuscular junction (NMJ), a significant number of nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (AChRs) recycle back into the postsynaptic membrane after internalization to intermingle with not-yet-internalized ;pre-existing' AChRs. However, the way in which these receptor pools are maintained and regulated at the NMJ in living animals remains unknown. Here, we demonstrate that recycled receptors in functional synapses are removed approximately four times faster than pre-existing receptors, and that most removed recycled receptors are replaced by new recycled ones. In denervated NMJs, the recycling of AChRs is significantly depressed and their removal rate increased, whereas direct muscle stimulation prevents their loss. Furthermore, we show that protein tyrosine phosphatase inhibitors cause the selective accumulation of recycled AChRs in the peri-synaptic membrane without affecting the pre-existing AChR pool. The inhibition of serine/threonine phosphatases, however, has no effect on AChR recycling. These data show that recycled receptors are remarkably dynamic, and suggest a potential role for tyrosine dephosphorylation in the insertion and maintenance of recycled AChRs at the postsynaptic membrane. These findings may provide insights into long-term recycling processes at less accessible synapses in the central nervous system in vivo.
P21 activated kinases (PAKs) are major downstream effectors of rac-related small GTPases that regulate various cellular processes. We have identified the new PAK gene max-2 in a screen for mutants disrupted in UNC-6/netrin-mediated commissural axon guidance. There are three Caenorhabditis elegans PAKs. We find that each C. elegans PAK represents a distinct group previously identified in other species. Here we examine their roles in the postembryonic migration of the P cell neuroblasts and the axon guidance of the ventral cord commissural motoneurons (VCCMNs). We find that the two PAKs, max-2 and pak-1, are redundantly required for P cell migration and function with UNC-73/Trio and the rac GTPases (CED-10 and MIG-2). During axon guidance of the VCCMNs, PAK-1 also acts with the rac GTPases, CED-10 and MIG-2, and is completely redundant with MAX-2. Interestingly, we find that unlike MAX-2 activity during P cell migration, for motoneuron axon guidance max-2 is also required in parallel to this PAK-1 pathway, independent of rac GTPase signaling. Finally, we provide evidence that MAX-2 functions downstream of the UNC-6/netrin receptor UNC-5 during axon repulsion and is an integral part of its signaling.
Type 2 diabetes is a common metabolic disease with a rising global prevalence. It is associated with slowly progressive end-organ damage in the eyes and kidneys, but also in the brain. The latter complication is often referred to as &quot;diabetic encephalopathy&quot; and is characterized by mild to moderate impairments in cognitive functioning. It is also associated with an increased risk of dementia. To date, its pathogenetic mechanisms are largely unclear. Cognitive impairments in patients with type 2 diabetes have been associated both with vascular risk factors, such as hypertension and dyslipidemia, and with diabetes-related factors, such as glycemic control, duration of the disease and treatment modality. Studies that address these associations generally focus on statistical (in)dependence of certain risk factors in the association between type 2 diabetes and cognitive decline rather than the causality of the association, which, from a mechanistic point of view, is more relevant. In this review we describe the association between type 2 diabetes and cognitive dysfunction and dementia. Furthermore, potential determinants of impaired cognition in type 2 diabetes are addressed both from the perspective of statistical associations and from a mechanistic point of view.
To explore possible relations between maltreatment in childhood and subsequent eating disorders in adult life, 107 consecutive adult psychiatric female outpatients were screened for eating disorders. They also completed questionnaires about harassment by adults and bullying by peers in childhood. The Childhood Trauma Questionnaire measured childhood abuse by parents or other adults, and the Parental Bonding Instrument captured parental coldness and overprotection. Bullying by peers was measured by an inventory used in schools. Outpatients who met the criteria for bulimia nervosa reported far more bullying by peers, more coldness and overprotection from fathers, and more childhood emotional, physical and sexual abuse. The findings suggest associations between childhood maltreatment, especially bullying by peers, and bulimia nervosa.
Orphanin FQ/nociceptin (OFQ/N), the most recently identified endogenous opioid peptide, stimulates prolactin secretion in both male and female rats. OFQ/N, however, did not elicit this stimulatory effect through the mu-, delta-, or kappa-opiate receptor subtype. The role OFQ/N plays in prolactin regulation under physiological conditions and its mechanism of action are not known. The purpose of these studies was to determine the physiological significance and pharmacological specificity of the prolactin secretory response to OFQ/N. In addition, the role of the tuberoinfundibular dopaminergic (TIDA) neurons in mediating this response was examined. Opioid receptor-like-1 (ORL-1) receptors were blocked by pretreatment with compound B (Comp B), a purported OFQ/N antagonist, or receptor synthesis was disrupted by pretreatment with ORL-1 receptor antisense oligonucleotides. The prolactin secretory response to OFQ/N administration in diestrous females was measured. Furthermore, the suckling-induced prolactin response was also determined after Comp B pretreatment. TIDA neuronal activity was quantified in diestrous female rats to determine whether OFQ/N stimulates prolactin release by inhibiting TIDA neurons. OFQ/N significantly inhibited the TIDA neurons by 1 min, preceding the prolactin secretory response. Both Comp B and antisense pretreatment blocked the stimulatory effects of OFQ/N on prolactin release, and Comp B abolished the suckling-induced prolactin response. These studies indicate that OFQ/N is a potent stimulus for prolactin secretion in female rats and that it mediates this effect by rapid and transient inhibition of TIDA neuronal activity. Furthermore, OFQ/N plays a physiologically significant role in the regulation of prolactin secretion during lactation, and it mediates its effects via actions at the ORL-1 receptor subtype.
Species differences have been reported for the nighttime regulation of arylalkylamine N-acetyltransferase (AA-NAT), the melatonin rhythm-generating enzyme. In particular, de novo synthesis of stimulatory transcription factors is required for Aa-nat transcription in the Syrian hamster but not in the rat pineal gland. The present work investigated the contribution of phosphorylated cAMP-responsive element-binding protein, c-FOS, c-JUN, and JUN-B in the regulation of Aa-nat transcription in Syrian hamsters compared with rats. The nighttime pattern of cAMP-responsive element-binding protein phosphorylation and regulation by norepinephrine observed in the Syrian hamster was similar to those reported in the rat. On the contrary, strong divergences in c-FOS, c-JUN, and JUN-B expression were observed between both species. In Syrian hamster, predominant expression of c-FOS and c-JUN was observed at the beginning of night, whereas a predominant expression of c-JUN and JUN-B was observed in the late night in rat. The early peak of c-FOS and c-JUN, known to form a stimulatory transcription dimer, suggests that they are involved in the nighttime stimulation of Aa-nat transcription. Indeed, early-night administration of a protein synthesis inhibitor (cycloheximide) markedly decreased AA-NAT mRNA levels in Syrian hamster. In the rat, high levels of JUN-B and c-JUN, constituting an inhibitory transcription dimer, are probably involved in the late-night inhibition of Aa-nat transcription. Early-night administration of cycloheximide actually increased AA-NAT mRNA levels toward the late night. Therefore, composition and timing of the pineal activator protein-1 complexes differ between rat and Syrian hamster and may be an activator (Syrian hamster) or an inhibitor (rat) of Aa-nat transcription.
Neuropeptide Y (NPY) is a key regulator of energy homeostasis and is implicated in the development of obesity and type 2 diabetes. Whereas it is known that hypothalamic administration of exogenous NPY peptides leads to increased body weight gain, hyperphagia, and many hormonal and metabolic changes characteristic of an obesity syndrome, the Y receptor(s) mediating these effects is disputed and unclear. To investigate the role of different Y receptors in the NPY-induced obesity syndrome, we used recombinant adeno-associated viral vector to overexpress NPY in mice deficient of selective single or multiple Y receptors (including Y1, Y2, and Y4). Results from this study demonstrated that long-term hypothalamic overexpression of NPY lead to marked hyperphagia, hypogonadism, body weight gain, enhanced adipose tissue accumulation, hyperinsulinemia, and other hormonal changes characteristic of an obesity syndrome. NPY-induced hyperphagia, hypogonadism, and obesity syndrome persisted in all genotypes studied (Y1(-/-), Y2(-/-), Y2Y4(-/-), and Y1Y2Y4(-/-) mice). However, triple deletion of Y1, Y2, and Y4 receptors prevented NPY-induced hyperinsulinemia. These findings suggest that Y1, Y2, and Y4 receptors under this condition are not crucially involved in NPY's hyperphagic, hypogonadal, and obesogenic effects, but they are responsible for the central regulation of circulating insulin levels by NPY.
We have investigated if propranolol, a non-selective -blocker present in sewage effluents, affects heart rate in rainbow trout. During a 48h exposure to a very high concentration of propranolol (70.9g/L) no effects on heart rate were found. After a subsequent intravenous injection of propranolol, heart rate remained unaffected in pre-exposed fish but was significantly lowered in nave fish. Other studies have reported effects on the reproduction of fish by propranolol dissolved in water at much lower concentrations. The present study suggests that physiological systems under homeostatic control, like heart rate, may not be particularly sensitive despite being direct targets.
We investigated the electrophysiological effects of high-frequency anterior thalamic deep brain stimulation using intracerebral mesial and lateral temporal depth electrodes in a patient with intractable focal epilepsy. Monopolar and bipolar stimulation delivered to the thalamic anterior nucleus using the programmable ITREL II stimulation device led to a significant decrease of cross power spectral density and a nonsignificant decrease of coherence in ipsilateral hippocampal structures. No such effect was found in lateral temporal or contralateral sites. The hippocampal inhibition was clearly related to the voltage (&gt; or =7 V) and frequency (&gt; or =70 Hz) of the thalamic stimulus and occurred with a delay of approximately 60 s after stimulus onset.

There is increasing interest about the possible involvement of the sympathetic nervous system (SNS) in initiation and maintenance of chronic muscle pain syndromes of different aetiology. Epidemiological data show that stresses of different nature, e.g. work-related, psychosocial, etc., typically characterised by SNS activation, may be a co-factor in the development of the pain syndrome and/or negatively affect its time course. In spite of their clear traumatic origin, whiplash associated disorders (WAD) appear to share many common features with other chronic pain syndromes affecting the musculo-skeletal system. These features do not only include symptoms, like type of pain or sensory and motor dysfunctions, but possibly also some of the pathophysiological mechanisms that may concur to establish the chronic pain syndrome. This review focuses on WAD, particular emphasis being devoted to sensorimotor symptoms, and on the actions exerted by the sympathetic system at muscle level. Besides its well-known action on muscle blood flow, the SNS is able to affect the contractility of muscle fibres, to modulate the proprioceptive information arising from the muscle spindle receptors and, under certain conditions, to modulate nociceptive information. Furthermore, the activity of the SNS itself is in turn affected by muscle conditions, such as its current state of activity, fatigue and pain signals originating in the muscle. The possible involvement of the SNS in the development of WAD is discussed in light of the several positive feedback loops in which it is implicated.
Destruction of the occipital cortex presumably leads to permanent blindness in the contralateral visual field. Residual abilities to respond to visual stimuli in the blind field without consciously experiencing them have, however, been described in cortically blind patients and are termed 'blindsight'. Although the neuronal basis of blindsight remains unknown, possible neuronal correlates have been proposed based on the nature of the residual vision observed. The most prominent but still controversial hypothesis postulates the involvement of the superior colliculi in blindsight. Here we demonstrate, using a computer-based reaction time test in a group of hemispherectomized subjects, that human 'attention-blindsight' can be measured for achromatic stimuli but disappears for stimuli that solely activate S-cones. Given that primate data have shown that the superior colliculi lacks input from S-cones, our results lend strong support to the hypothesis that 'attention-blindsight' is mediated through a collicular pathway. The contribution of a direct geniculo-extrastriate-koniocellular projection was ruled out by testing hemispherectomized subjects in whom a whole hemisphere has been removed or disconnected for the treatment of epilepsy. A direct retino-pulvinar-cortical connection is also unlikely as the pulvinar nucleus is known to receive input from S-cones as well as from L/M-cone-driven colour-opponent ganglion cells.
Climbing activity, the gradual increase of neural discharge rate across a delay, has been suggested to play a crucial role in interval timing. However, most previous studies demonstrated climbing activity only in conjunction with tasks that involved a passive tracking of the passage of time, but that did not necessitate to actively time an event, e.g. a motor response. To demonstrate the significance of climbing activity for action timing, we trained pigeons in a self-control task requiring either immediate responding to a key after the onset of a light cue ('rapid-response' trials), or waiting for a fixed interval after cue presentation before responding to the key ('wait' trials). The cue also indicated whether a correctly timed response would be rewarded with a large or a small reward. Single-cell recordings in the Nidopallium caudolaterale, the avian prefrontal cortex, revealed that some neurons showed climbing activity between cue onset and response. Their increase in firing rate was flatter and reached the peak later in wait compared with rapid-response trials. An error analysis confirmed that, relative to correct responses, premature responses were accompanied by steeper, and tardy responses by flatter ramps. In addition, the climbing discharge pattern was modulated by the amount of the anticipated reward, suggesting that timing is an intrinsic property of neurons encoding other task-related information. These results demonstrate the behavioural and motivational significance of climbing activity in prospective information encoding. Our study supports a recent paradigm shift in our understanding of the vertebrate brain evolution, and it provides further evidence for the similarity between the mammalian cortex and the avian pallium.
Neuroanatomical evidence indicates that the lateral pallium (LP) of ray-finned fishes could be homologous to the hippocampus of mammals and birds. Recent studies have found that hippocampus of mammals and birds is critical for learning geometric properties of space. In this work, we studied the effects of lesions to the lateral pallium of goldfish on the encoding of geometric spatial information. Goldfish with telencephalic lesions were trained to search for a goal in a rectangular-shaped arena containing one different wall that served as the only distinctive environmental feature. Although fish with lateral pallium lesions learned the task even faster than sham and medial pallium (MP)-lesioned animals, subsequent probe trials showed that they were insensitive to geometric information. Sham and medial pallium-lesioned animals could use both geometric and feature information to locate the goal. By contrast, fish with lateral palium lesions relied exclusively on the feature information provided by the wall of a different colour. These results indicate that lesions to the lateral pallium of goldfish, like hippocampal lesions in mammals and birds, selectively impair the encoding of geometric spatial information of environmental space. Thus, the forebrain structures of teleost fish that are neuroanatomically equivalent to the mammalian and avian hippocampus also share a central role in supporting spatial cognition. Present results suggest that the presence of a hippocampal-dependent memory system implicated in the processing of geometric spatial information is an ancient feature of the vertebrate forebrain that has been conserved during the divergent evolution of different vertebrate groups.
The granule cell layer of the cerebellar hemispheres contains a patchy and noncontinuous map of the body surface, consisting of a complex mosaic of multiple perioral tactile representations. Previous physiological studies have shown that cerebrocerebellar mossy fibre projections, conveyed through the pontine nuclei, are mapped in registration with peripheral tactile projections to the cerebellum. In contrast to the fractured cerebellar map, the primary somatosensory cortex (SI) is somatotopically organized. To understand better the map transformation occurring in cerebrocerebellar pathways, we injected axonal tracers in electrophysiologically defined locations in Sprague-Dawley rat folium crus IIa, and mapped the distribution of retrogradely labelled neurons within the pontine nuclei using three-dimensional (3-D) reconstructions. Tracer injections within the large central upper lip patch in crus IIa-labelled neurons located centrally in the pontine nuclei, primarily contralateral to the injected side. Larger injections (covering multiple crus IIa perioral representations) resulted in labelling extending only slightly beyond this region, with a higher density and more ipsilaterally labelled neurons. Combined axonal tracer injections in upper lip representations in SI and crus IIa, revealed a close spatial correspondence between the cerebropontine terminal fields and the crus IIa projecting neurons. Finally, comparisons with previously published three-dimensional distributions of pontine neurons labelled following tracer injections in face receiving regions in the paramedian lobule (downloaded from http://www.rbwb.org) revealed similar correspondence. The present data support the coherent topographical organization of cerebro-ponto-cerebellar networks previously suggested from physiological studies. We discuss the present findings in the context of transformations from cerebral somatotopic to cerebellar fractured tactile representations.
Neuronal networks originating in the hypothalamic arcuate nucleus play fundamental roles in the control of energy balance. Neuropeptide Y (NPY)-producing neurons in the arcuate nucleus stimulate food intake, whereas arcuate nucleus neurons that release the proopiomelanocortin (POMC)-derived peptide alpha-melanocyte-stimulating hormone (alpha-MSH) potently reduce food intake. Relatively little attention has been focused on classical neurotransmitters in regulation of food intake. Here, we have investigated the potential presence of acetylcholine (ACh) in NPY- and POMC-containing neuronal populations of the arcuate nucleus. Antisera to proteins required for cholinergic neurotransmission, including choline acetyltransferase (ChAT) and the vesicular acetylcholine transporter (VAChT), were employed in double-labeling immunohistochemical experiments. In colchicine-treated rats, ChAT- and VAChT-immunopositive cell bodies were located in the ventral aspect of the arcuate nucleus. ChAT and VAChT immunoreactivities were demonstrated in alpha-MSH- and cocaine- and amphetamine-regulated transcript (CART)-containing cell bodies of the arcuate nucleus, whereas cell bodies containing NPY or agouti-related peptide (AGRP) were distinct from VAChT-immunoreactive neuronal perikarya. VAChT immunoreactivity was also present in a large number of alpha-MSH-containing nerve fiber varicosities throughout the central nervous system. In the commissural part of the nucleus tractus solitarius, no alpha-MSH-containing cell bodies were found to have ChAT or VAChT immunoreactivity. The presence of markers for cholinergic neurotransmission in a subpopulation of hypothalamic POMC/CART neurons suggests co-release of ACh with peptides derived from the POMC precursor and CART. The results indicate a role for ACh in control of energy balance, mediating the effects of peripheral hormones such as leptin and insulin.
This article is a markedly condensed summary of a longer report [Resource allocation to brain research in Europe (RABRE), part 2] that is simultaneously published on line: (i) as supplementary material linked to this European Journal of Neuroscience article (http://www.blackwell-synergy.com/loi/ejn) and (ii) on the website of the European Brain Council (http://www.europeanbraincouncil.org/publications). We have recently shown that brain diseases account for 35% of the overall disease burden and cost European society almost euro 400 billion per year (a billion is understood to mean one thousand million throughout this report). The aim of the present study was to estimate funding for brain research in Europe and the cost-benefit of further investments in this area of research. The assessment of funding included public sources (governmental agencies plus charities) and industry funding. The assessment of publicly financed research support for brain research was based on a comprehensive survey, and industry investment in brain research was assessed based on published data on pharmaceutical development. The total funding of brain research in Europe was estimated at euro 4.1 billion in 2005, of which public grants amounted to &lt; euro 900 million. Thus, industry funding accounted for 79%. Although cancer only incurred 50% of the cost of brain diseases in 2005, public grants for cancer research were almost twice as high as the public financial support of brain research. US-based funding of brain research was almost four times higher than European funding. We assessed the cost-benefit of further investment in brain research using different methods. They all showed that increased investment in brain research is likely to be highly cost-effective. We conclude that European spending on brain research, particularly public spending, is low compared to other fields of research and to the US, and that increased investment in brain research seems warranted.
Social isolation from weaning affects hippocampal structure and function in the rat. The intrinsic dynamic instability of the cytoskeletal microtubular system is essential for neuronal development and organization. Accordingly, the present paper investigated the effects of social isolation on hippocampal levels of alpha-tubulin isoforms associated with microtubule dynamics, the dendritic marker MAP-2 and alterations in locomotor activity and recognition memory. Male Lister Hooded rats (postnatal day 25-28) were housed either in groups or singly (isolated animals) for 30 days. Locomotor activity in a novel arena and novel object recognition were monitored in activity boxes. The hippocampus was dissected out 18 h after the novel object recognition task. Levels of alpha-tubulin isoforms and MAP-2 were analysed using Western blots. The experiments were conducted in duplicate, using two batches of rats obtained from different suppliers. Isolated animals were hyperactive and showed recognition memory deficits in the novel object recognition task. These behavioural alterations were accompanied by specific alterations in hippocampal alpha-tubulin isoforms and decreased MAP-2 expression. The results confirm that rearing rats in isolation produces hyperactivity and cognitive deficits. The behavioural alterations were accompanied by hippocampal cytoskeletal changes consistent with microtubule stabilization, and by decreased MAP-2 expression. These findings are indicative of an abnormal development of synaptic connections and/or reductions in neuronal cell number. The developmental structural abnormalities in the hippocampus may contribute to the cognitive impairments which result from isolation rearing in rats.
Dopamine cytotoxicity is thought to contribute towards the selective loss of substantia nigra pars compacta dopamine neurons and disease progression in Parkinson's disease. However, the long-term toxicity of dopamine in vivo has not previously been established. The vesicular monoamine transporter 2 (VMAT2) sequesters monoamines into synaptic vesicles, a process that, in addition to being important in normal transmission, may also act to keep intracellular levels of monoamine neurotransmitters below potentially toxic thresholds. The homozygous VMAT2-hypomorphic mouse has an insertion in the VMAT2 gene (Slc18a2). Consequently, VMAT2-deficient mice (VD(-/-)) have an approximately 95% reduction in VMAT2 expression and an equivalent level of dopamine depletion in the striatum which results in moderate motor impairment. Here, we show that L-DOPA induces locomotor hyperactivity in VD(-/-) mice and reverses the deficit in motor coordination and balance as tested with the rotarod. We report that evidence for cytosolic accumulation of dopamine in substantia nigra neurons in these mice is two-fold: firstly, there is reduced phosphorylation of tyrosine hydroxylase at the residue associated with catechol feedback inhibition; and, secondly, there are increased rates of dopamine turnover at 6, 12 and 24 months of age. These animals exhibit a progressive decline in striatal monoamine levels and rotarod performance with increasing age. However, despite these data, there was no loss of nigral dopamine neurons as estimated by quantification of tyrosine hydroxylase-immunoreactive cells in the substantia nigra pars compacta of old VD(-/-) mice (24-month-old), implying that these age-dependent manifestations may be due to senescence alone.
The relationship between localized changes in brain activity and metabolism, and the blood oxygenation level-dependent (BOLD) signal used in functional magnetic resonance imaging studies is not fully understood. One source of complexity is that stimulus-elicited changes in the BOLD signal arise both from changes in oxygen consumption due to increases in activity and purely 'haemodynamic' changes such as increases in cerebral blood flow. It is well established that robust cortical haemodynamic changes can be elicited by increasing the concentration of inspired CO(2) (inducing hypercapnia) and it is widely believed that these haemodynamic changes occur without significant effects upon neural activity or cortical metabolism. Hypercapnia is therefore commonly used as a calibration condition in functional magnetic resonance imaging studies to enable estimation of oxidative metabolism from subsequent stimulus-evoked functional magnetic resonance imaging BOLD signal changes. However, there is little research that has investigated in detail the effects of hypercapnia upon all components of the haemodynamic response (changes in cerebral blood flow, volume and oxygenation) in addition to recording neural activity. In awake animals, we used optical and electrophysiological techniques to measure cortical haemodynamic and field potential responses to hypercapnia (60 s, 5% CO(2)). The main findings are that firstly, in the awake rat, the temporal structure of the haemodynamic response to hypercapnia differs from that reported previously in anaesthetized preparations in that the response is more rapid. Secondly, there is evidence that hypercapnia alters ongoing neural activity in awake rats by inducing periods of cortical desynchronization and this may be associated with changes in oxidative metabolism.
There is increasing evidence that the responses of single units in the mammalian cochlear nucleus can be altered by the presentation of contralateral stimuli, although the functional significance of this binaural responsiveness is unknown. To further our understanding of this phenomenon we recorded single-unit (n = 110) response maps from the cochlear nucleus (ventral and dorsal divisions) of the anaesthetized guinea pig in response to presentation of ipsilateral and contralateral pure tones. Many neurones showed no evidence of input from the contralateral ear (n = 41) but other neurones from both ventral and dorsal cochlear nucleus showed clear evidence of contralateral inhibitory input (n = 61). Inhibitory response patterns were divided into two groups. In 36 neurones, contralateral tone-evoked inhibition was closely aligned with the ipsilateral excitatory response map (+/- 0.33 octaves) often extending to low stimulus levels. In 25 neurones, higher threshold contralateral inhibitory responses were found, mostly centred at frequencies greater than 0.33 octaves below the ipsilateral excitation. A few neurones (n = 8) exhibited responses consistent with excitatory input from the contralateral ear, which was closely aligned with the ipsilateral excitation, and were found exclusively in the dorsal cochlear nucleus. The latency of the contralateral interaction was, on average, longer than the ipsilateral latency. Interaural level difference curves are similar to other reports from the cochlear nucleus. Our results are consistent with the idea that contralateral interactions arise from a variety of direct and indirect neuronal projections.
Recent studies have shown that the precursor of brain-derived neurotrophic factor (pro-BDNF) activates p75NTR with high affinity to induce apoptosis. Here we show that pro-BDNF is transported anterogradely and retrogradely in sensory neurons of adult rats. After a crush injury of sciatic nerves, dorsal roots or dorsal column in adult Sprague-Dawley rats, the immunoreactivity for pro-BDNF accumulated at both the proximal and distal segments. The accumulation reached a maximum at 24 h after injury. Western blot analysis also revealed pro-BDNF in sciatic nerve segments proximal and distal to the ligature and in the spinal cord. Biotinylated or Alexa-488-labelled pro-BDNF injected into sciatic nerve was internalized and transported both retrogradely and anterogradely within sensory neurons. These results demonstrate that pro-BDNF is anterogradely and retrogradely transported in sensory neurons, suggesting that endogenous pro-BDNF may be released and play important functions.


We investigated the interaction between anticipation of positive and negative affective images and visual evoked magnetic fields (VEF). Participants (n = 13) were presented emotionally positive or negative images under different anticipatory conditions, and their subsequent brain responses were recorded by magnetoencephalography (MEG). In the Affective Cue conditions, the cue stimulus indicated the emotional valence of the image, which followed 2 s later. In the Null Cue conditions, the cue stimulus did not include any information about the valence of the image. In the No Cue conditions, the affective image was suddenly presented, without a cue stimulus. The VEF amplitude for the negative image in the Affective Cue condition was smaller than that of the positive image in the Affective Cue condition and that of the negative image in the Null Cue condition. This result suggests that anticipation of the valence of affective images modulates the processes of the visual cortex.
In order to investigate the functional specificity of the dorsal and ventral visual processing steams we used transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) to briefly disrupt one or the other while subjects performed three tasks, involving discrimination of colour or shape or relative position. TMS was delivered over right posterior parietal cortex (PPC) or right lateral occipital (LO) cortex, regions known to have visuo-spatial and object processing properties respectively. LO but not PPC stimulation had a significant effect on reaction time when subjects were asked to make a discrimination of relative shape. PPC stimulation had a significant effect when subjects were asked to discriminate relative position of the same shapes. Stimulation of LO also lengthened reaction times on the position task. There were no effects of stimulation at either site on colour discrimination. Results are discussed within the framework of how the dorsal stream and ventral stream are dissociated following their damage in neurological patients and possible ways in which they may interact in the normal brain.
The visual system of the cat is considered to be organized in both a serial and parallel manner. Studies of visual onset latencies generally suggest that parallel processing occurs throughout the dorsal stream. These studies are at odds with the proposed hierarchies of visual areas based on termination patterns of cortico-cortical projections. In previous studies, a variety of stimuli have been used to compute latencies, and this is problematic as latencies are known to depend on stimulus parameters. This could explain the discrepancy between latency and neuroanatomical based studies. Therefore, the first aim of the present study was to determine whether latencies increased along the hierarchy of visual areas when the same stimuli are used. In addition, the effect of stimulus complexity was assessed. Visual onset latencies were calculated for area 17, PMLS, AMLS, and AEV neurons. Latencies were also computed from neurons in the lateral posterior (LP)-pulvinar complex given the importance of this extrageniculate complex in cortical intercommunication. Latency distributions from all regions overlapped substantially, and no significant difference was present, regardless of the type of stimulus used. The onset latencies in the LP-pulvinar complex were comparable to those seen in cortical areas. The data suggest that the initial processing of information in the visual system is parallel, despite the presence of a neuroanatomical hierarchy. Simultaneous response onsets among cortical areas and the LP-pulvinar suggest that the latter is more than a simple relay station for information headed to cortex. The data are consistent with proposals of the LP-pulvinar as a center for the integration and distribution of information from/to multiple cortical areas.
Many of our actions are influenced by the social context. Traditional approach attributes the influence of the social context to arousal state changes in a socially promotive way. The ideomotor approach, which postulates common coding between perceived events and intended actions, uses a conceptual scheme of ideomotor compatibility to explain self-other interaction. In this study, we recorded reaction times (RTs) and event-related potentials in a Go/NoGo task with stimulus-response (S-R) compatibility arrangement to examine how the social context affects self-other interaction. Although the social facilitation theory predicted that RTs would be faster when acting together with audience rather than acting alone, the ideomotor theory predicted S-R compatibility effects only for the joint condition. The results revealed S-R compatibility on the RTs, lateralized readiness potential of the Go trials, and P3 of the NoGo trials in the joint condition, which were in line with the predictions of the ideomotor theory. Owing to the anticipation of other's actions, self and other's actions are internally and unintentionally coded at the representational level and their functional equivalency can be realized through a common coding framework between perception and action systems. Social facilitation theory was not supported, because we found no significant data differences depending on the setting.
Ocular torsion in response to a static tilt of a visual stimulus has been, and still remains in doubt. Furthermore, the possible underlying mechanism is not well understood. The authors' hypothesize that if the torsional response is related to the vestibular otolith system, then a visual stimulus with spatial clues important for maintaining body posture will induce a larger torsional response as compared to a stimulus lacking spatial information. Eye movements were recorded objectively in 15 healthy individuals using a 3D video oculography system. Three visual stimuli were used. In two tests, an identical photographic image of a city scene with spatial clues relevant for body posture were used, with the only difference being a square periphery in one stimulus (test 1) and a circular periphery in the other (test 2). The third stimulus (test 3) consisted of yellow rectangles on a black background with no natural spatial information. The scenes were tilted in 15 degrees steps from 0 degrees to 45 degrees in CCW and CW direction, and each position were held static for 15 s. All visual scene tilts induced a compensatory torsional response, which increased with stimuli angle. The stimuli with spatial clues induced more torsion compared to the stimulus without spatial clues. No difference was found when analysing the peripheral contour effect or direction of stimulus tilt. The present results support the hypothesis of an origin in the otolith system for the torsional response found to a static tilted visual scene.
We investigated the properties of the neural response to transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) applied over the human primary motor cortex. Consistent with our previous findings, single pulses of TMS induce a characteristic negative deflection at 45 ms (N45) and a transient oscillation in the beta frequency-range (15-30 Hz), as measured using electroencephalograpy (EEG). Here we show the relative specificity of the beta oscillation and the N45; both are stronger when elicited by stimulation applied over the primary motor cortex, as compared with stimulation over the dorsal premotor cortex. We also provide a quantitative analysis of the beta responses to single pulses of TMS and show that the responses are highly phaselocked to the TMS pulses within single subjects; this phaselocking is similar from subject to subject. A single pulse of TMS applied over the primary motor cortex thus appears to reset the ongoing oscillations of the neurons, bringing them transiently into synchrony. Finally, we examine the effect of local or distal modulation of the excitability of the primary motor cortex on the beta oscillation and the N45 in response to single-pulse TMS. We applied low-frequency subthreshold repetitive TMS either over the primary motor cortex (local modulation) or, on a separate day, over the dorsal premotor cortex (distal modulation). The modulation was evaluated with single suprathreshold test pulses of TMS applied over the primary motor cortex before and after the subthreshold low-frequency rTMS. We recorded the EEG response throughout the testing session, i.e. to both the subthreshold and the suprathreshold pulses. After repetitive TMS applied over the primary motor cortex, but not the dorsal premotor cortex, the amplitude of the N45 in response to suprathreshold pulses tended to decrease (not significant), and subsequently increased (significant); neither type of repetitive TMS affected the amplitude of the beta oscillation. We conclude that (1) the N45 depends on circuits intrinsic to the primary motor cortex; (2) the beta oscillation is specific to stimulation of the primary motor cortex, but is not affected by modulation of either cortical area and; (3) the beta oscillatory response to pulses of TMS arises from resetting of ongoing oscillations rather than their induction.
The principal goal of our study is to gain an insight into the coordinative structure of a complex body movement. As a first step, this paper describes the activity of multiple skeletal muscles associated with the drawing-like movements that resemble the Jet, performed by skilled ballet dancers. The EMG activity of 18 muscles of the trunk, pelvis, and both legs was recorded when dancers standing on the left leg moved the toe of the right leg forward and backward along a straight line. A major finding is that the EMG activity of all right muscles, despite their functional and anatomical diversity, was minimised not only at the initial, vertical position but also in the reversal phase of movement when the moving leg was maximally deviated from the vertical position. In other words, the activity was minimal when torques of the weights of limb segments were minimal as well as when these torques were maximal. In contrast, in the static task when the maximally deviated leg position was maintained, there was substantial tonic activation of leg muscles, an activity that was necessary to balance these torques. The result is consistent with the hypothesis that movements of the body result from centrally induced changes in the muscle recruitment thresholds influencing the referent configuration of the body. The existence of minima in the overall EMG activity of skeletal muscles is not the only prediction of the referent configuration hypothesis. An immediate consequence of the hypothesis is that, in movements of the limb, the EMG patterns should be a direction-dependent phenomenon known as &quot;directional tuning&quot; of muscles. In combination with the principle of minimal interaction of neuromuscular system, the referent configuration hypothesis offers a dynamic approach to the problems of how control levels may guide multi-muscle and multi-joint systems without redundancy problems.
We report here on experiments aimed to characterise the molecular basis of the interactions between muscle-specific ankyrin1 isoforms localized on the sarcoplasmic reticulum and obscurin a protein associated with the contractile apparatus. A novel small muscle-specific ankyrin isoform, ank1.9 was identified that, similarly to the known ank1.5 isoform, was able to bind to obscurin in yeast two-hybrid assay and in pull-down experiments. Two distinct binding sites in the C-terminus of obscurin were found to mediate binding with ank1.5 and ank1.9. Interactions between ank1.5 and ank1.9 with recombinant proteins containing one or two of the binding sites of obscurin were confirmed by expressing recombinant proteins in NIH3T3 cells. In cultured myotubes, ank1.5 and ank1.9 colocalized with endogenous obscurin at the M-band region. In contrast with evidence of efficient binding between small ank1 isoforms and obscurin, in vitro interaction studies and transfection experiments in myotubes indicated that small ank1 isoforms do not efficiently interact with titin. Altogether, these results support a role of obscurin in mediating the subcellular localization of small ank1 isoforms in striated muscle cells. Given that the localization of small muscle-specific ank1 isoforms mirrors that of obscurin, we propose that obscurin and small ank1 isoforms may form stable interactions that may be relevant to connect the sarcoplasmic reticulum and the contractile apparatus in skeletal muscle cells.
Periocular injections of the polyamine analog CGC-11144 three times a week causes regression of choroidal neovascularization. This regimen was selected to maximize chances of success for proof of concept, but is not ideal for clinical application. In this study we explored other regimens for periocular delivery of CGC-11144, and 2 other polyamine analogs, CGC-11047 and CGC-11093. A single periocular injection of 200 microg of CGC-11144, 2 mg of CGC-11047, or 1.5 mg of CGC-11093 caused significant suppression and regression of laser-induced choroidal neovascularization. An injection of 2 mg of CGC-11047 or 1.5 mg of CGC-11093 one or two weeks before, but not 3 weeks before, rupture of Bruch's membrane also caused significant suppression. Periocular injection of polyamine analogs also caused strong inhibition of retinal or subretinal neovascularization in mice with oxygen-induced ischemic retinopathy or Rhodopsin promoter/VEGF transgenic mice, respectively. These data suggest that periocular injection of one of 3 different polyamine analogs inhibits retinal or choroidal neovascularization and a single injection provides inhibitory activity for at least 2 to 3 weeks, which could provide the basis for a feasible treatment regimen for clinical trials.

Young rats display an accelerated rate of locomotor recovery after contusive spinal cord injury (SCI) compared to adults subjected to a similar standardized injury. We examined possible differences in the responses to SCI at the injury site and in the distal cord that might contribute to this rapid recovery. P14-15 rats were studied at 1, 3, 5, 7, and 28 days after injury at T8 produced with a weight drop device (10 g x 2.5 cm). We used immunohistochemistry to investigate distal plasticity of serotonergic and noradrenergic pathways that have been shown to modulate locomotion. After SCI, pups exhibited an expected decrease in monoaminergic innervation of the lumbosacral cord, consistent with partial loss of these descending pathways. Unlike published results for the adult, we found no evidence of partial reinnervation with time after injury. On the other hand, oligodendrocytes at and near the lesion epicenter of the young rats appeared unexpectedly resilient to the insult. No evidence of oligodendrocyte loss in spared white matter was detected at 24 h after injury, as compared to the 50% loss reported in adults. Rather, there was a significant increase in the density of oligodendrocytes by 5 days after injury that was associated with a dramatic upregulation of markers for glial progenitor cells after pup SCI. Our results suggest that an altered glial response near the injury epicenter as compared to that in adults is likely to contribute to the more rapid rate of recovery in hindlimb locomotor function in young rats after SCI.
The retrograde axonal transport mechanism of motor neurons has been exploited to deliver the gene encoding Glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF) into the central nervous system to provide trophic support following injury. A nonviral gene delivery system, consisting of a monoclonal antibody (MC192) that binds the neurotrophic receptor, p75(NTR), coupled to poly-L-lysine, was constructed and used to deliver the gene via a receptor-mediated mechanism. The MC192-poly-l-lysine/pGDNF complex was injected into the hind limb of newborn rats to allow gene expression within motor neurons prior to sciatic nerve transection. In adult rats, the gene delivery complex was administrated in gel foam placed on a transected hypoglossal nerve. We show that the delivered construct is internalized following binding to p75(NTR) and is transported into the brain and spinal cord, bypassing the blood-brain barrier. The presence of the GDNF transgene and its transcript could be detected for up to 8 weeks in spinal cord and brain stem. Expression of the GDNF protein rescued 38% of the targeted motor neurons 1 week postinjury in newborn rats while the survival rate in control group was below 12%. In adult rats, neuronal death induced by axotomy was almost completely reversed by the introduction of the transgene (95 +/- 3%). Thus, the significant functional outcomes of this novel gene delivery system are demonstrated both in postnatal and adult motor neurons.
Monocyte chemoattractant protein-1 is produced by Schwann cells during Wallerian degeneration of a peripheral nerve and contributes to a selective accumulation of macrophages in the degenerating segment. An in vitro preparation has been developed to analyze the molecules from axons and non-neuronal cells in nerves that stimulate an increased production of monocyte chemoattractant protein-1 mRNA by Schwann cells. For this purpose, Schwann cells obtained from neonatal rats were maintained in culture, exposed to putative molecular stimuli and analyzed for their content of monocyte chemoattractant protein-1 mRNA. Under basal conditions, the concentration of monocyte chemoattractant protein-1 in Schwann cells was low. Freeze-killed fragments or homogenates of nerve (or brain) but not viable nerve or freeze-killed muscle were effective in inducing monocyte chemoattractant protein-1 mRNA. The inductive activity was abolished by heating. Results of dialysis of supernatants of nerve homogenates indicate that a protein or proteins of 1-10 kDa were capable of stimulating synthesis of monocyte chemoattractant protein-1 by Schwann cells. Also, the activity in nerve homogenates was partially inhibited by antibodies to Toll-like receptor-4. The observations suggest that a non-secreted protein is released from disintegrating axons to initiate the innate immune response that characterizes Wallerian degeneration.
Microtubule-stabilizing and -destabilizing proteins play a crucial role in regulating the dynamic instability of microtubules during neuronal development and synaptic transmission. The microtubule-destabilizing protein SCG10 is a neuron-specific protein implicated in neurite outgrowth. The SCG10 protein is significantly reduced in mature neurons, suggesting that its expression is developmentally regulated. In contrast, the microtubule-stabilizing protein tau is expressed in mature neurons and its function is essential for the maintenance of neuronal polarity and neuronal survival. Thus, the establishment and maintenance of neuronal polarity may down-regulate the protein level/function of SCG10. In this report, we show that treatment of PC12 cells and neuroblastoma cells with the microtubule-stabilizing drug Taxol induced a rapid degradation of the SCG10 protein. Consistently, overexpression of tau protein in neuroblastoma cells also induced a reduction in SCG10 protein levels. Calpain inhibitor MDL-28170, but not caspase inhibitors, blocked a significant decrease in SCG10 protein levels. Collectively, these results indicate that tau overexpression and Taxol treatment induced a calpain-dependent degradation of the microtubule-destabilizing protein SCG10. The results provide evidence for the existence of an intracellular mechanism involved in the regulation of SCG10 upon microtubule stabilization.
We previously demonstrated that the tetraspanin protein CD81 is up-regulated by astrocytes and microglia after traumatic spinal cord injury in rats and that CD81 is involved in adhesion and proliferation of cultured astrocytes and microglia. Since these reactive glial cells contribute to secondary damage and glial scar formation, we studied the effect of local administration of an anti-CD81 antibody in experimental spinal cord injury. Adult rats were subjected to a moderate spinal cord contusion injury and treated for 2 weeks with different doses of the anti-CD81 antibody AMP1 (0.5-5 microg/h) or non-immune IgG (5.0 microg/h). A technique was developed to infuse the antibodies directly into the lesion site via an intraspinal cannula connected to a pump. Functional recovery was monitored during 8 postoperative weeks by means of the Basso, Beattie and Bresnahan (BBB) locomotor rating scale, the BBB subscore and Grid-walk test. At the end of the study, quantitative histology was performed to assess tissue sparing. Our data showed that by itself cannulation of the lesion site resulted in minimal functional and histological impairments. Application of 0.5 microg/h AMP1 resulted in a marked functional recovery (BBB 2 points; Grid-walk 30% less errors compared to control). This recovery was accompanied by an 18% increase in tissue sparing at the lesion epicentre. No gross histological changes in glial scarring were apparent. Our data demonstrate beneficial effects of an anti-CD81 antibody on functional recovery in spinal cord injured rats and suggest that this effect is mediated through a reduction in secondary tissue loss.
Infusion of pentagastrin (20 microg kg(-1) h(-1), i.v.) for 10 min evokes protein output but no overt fluid secretion from the parotid gland of the rat, as revealed by increased protein concentration in a subsequent wash-out flow of saliva in response to a bolus injection of methacholine (5 microg kg(-1), i.v.) 10 min later. Using this experimental set-up, the contribution of nitric oxide (NO) generation to the protein and amylase response evoked by pentagastrin was investigated. Neither the neuronal type NO synthase inhibitor N(omega)-propyl-L-arginine (N-PLA; 30 mg kg(-1), i.v.) nor the non-selective NO synthase inhibitor L-NAME (30 mg kg(-1), i.v.) as such affected the methacholine-evoked volume response or the outputs of protein and amylase. However, when preceeded by the pentagastrin infusion, the expected increases in concentrations of protein (145%) and amylase activity (127%) of the methacholine-evoked response (compared to a pre-infusion methacholine response) were reduced to 68 and 74%, respectively, in the presence of N-PLA, and to 70 and 63%, respectively, in the presence of L-NAME. Thus, NO generation resulting from the activity of the neuronal type NO synthase, most probably of parenchymal origin, plays an important role in the pentagastrin-induced protein and amylase secretion of the rat parotid gland.
In this review, we draw on literature from both animal and human neurophysiological studies to consider the neurochemical mechanisms underlying attention-deficit/ hyperactivity disorder (ADHD). Psychophysiological and neuropsychological research is used to propose possible etiological endophenotypes of ADHD. These are conceptualized as patients with distinct cortical-arousal, information-processing or maturational abnormalities, or a combination thereof, and how the endophenotypes can be used to help drug development and optimize treatment and management. To illustrate, the paper focuses on neuro- and psychophysiological evidence that suggests cholinergic mechanisms may underlie specific information-processing abnormalities that occur in ADHD. The clinical implications for a cholinergic hypothesis of ADHD are considered, along with its possible implications for treatment and pharmacological development.
Unlike other medical disciplines psychiatry can be characterized by the special importance of subjective experience. Since subjective experience is tied to First-Person-Perspective and investigation of the brain is possible only in Third-Person-Perspective, the question how subjective experience can be linked to neuronal processes is raised in psychiatry. We suggest a novel methodological approach, First-Person-Neuroscience where subjective experience can be linked directly and systematically to neuronal processes. Due to complexity of the structures and contents of subjective experience, localization in specific brain regions seems inappropriate. Instead, the interplay and coordination of neuronal activity across several brain regions, so-called neuronal integration, should be considered in First-Person-Neuroscience. This is illustrated by two principles of neuronal integration, top-down modulation and reciprocal modulation, whose abnormal function can be related to subjective experience of patients with catatonia and depression. It is concluded that First-Person-Neuroscience can contribute to reveal abnormal brain function in psychiatric disorders and ultimately to development of diagnostic and therapeutic markers.


Both transforming growth factor-beta1 (TGF-beta1) and nitric oxide synthase-2 (NOS-2) are upregulated under various neuropathological states. Evidence suggests that TGF-beta1 can either attenuate or augment NOS-2 expression, with the prevailing effect dependent on the experimental paradigm employed and the cell-type under study. The purpose of the present study was to determine the effect of TGF-beta1 on astrocytic NOS-2 expression. In purified astrocyte cultures, TGF-beta1 alone did not induce NOS-2 or NO production. However, NO production induced by lipopolysaccharide (LPS) plus IFNgamma was enhanced by TGF-beta1 in a concentration-dependent manner between 10 and 1,000 pg/mL. The presence of IFNgamma was not necessary for this effect to occur, as TGF-beta1 enhanced NO production induced by LPS in a similar fashion. In cultures stimulated with LPS plus IFNgamma, the enhancement of NO production by TGF-beta1 was associated with a corresponding increase in NOS-2 mRNA and protein expression. Interestingly, immunocytochemical assessment of NOS-2 protein expression demonstrated that TGF-beta1 augmented astrocytic NO production, specifically by increasing the pool of astrocytes capable of expressing NOS-2 induced by either LPS (approximately threefold) or LPS plus IFNgamma (approximately sevenfold). In a broader sense, our results suggest that TGF-beta1 recruits a latent population of astrocytes to respond to stimulation by pro-inflammatory mediators.
Occipital neuralgia is a pain syndrome which may usually be induced by spasms of the cervical muscles or trauma to the greater or lesser occipital nerves. We report a patient with occipital neuralgia followed by facial herpes lesion. A 74-year-old male experienced sudden-onset severe headache in the occipital area. The pain was localized to the distribution of the right side of the greater occipital nerve, and palpation of the right greater occipital nerve reproduces the pain. He was diagnosed with occipital neuralgia according to ICHD-II criteria. A few days later, the occipital pain was followed by reddening of the skin and the appearance, of varying size, of vesicles on the right side of his face (the maxillary nerve and the mandibular nerve region). This was diagnosed as herpes zoster. This case represents a combination of facial herpes lesions and pain in the C2 and C3 regions. The pain syndromes can be confusing, and the classic herpes zoster infection should be considered even when no skin lesions are established.


In many organs, different protein kinase C (PKC) isoforms are expressed in specific cell types, suggesting that the different PKCs have cell-specific roles, and also that drugs acting on a particular PKC may have effects on the whole organ that are distinguishable from drugs that target other isoforms. Previous studies of the guinea-pig and mouse intestine indicate that there are cell-specific expressions of PKC isoforms in neurons, muscle and the interstitial cells of Cajal. In the present study we have investigated the expression of different PKCs in human intestine. Immunohistochemical studies showed that the forms that are prominent in human enteric neurons are PKCs gamma and epsilon and in muscle the dominant form is PKCdelta. Neurons were weakly stained for PKCbetaI. These observations parallel findings in guinea-pig and mouse, except that in human PKCgamma-IR was not present in the same types of neurons that express it in the guinea-pig. Enteric glial cells were strongly immunoreactive for PKCalpha, which is also the major isoform in enteric glial cells of guinea-pig. In human and guinea-pig, glial cells also express PKCbetaI. Spindle-shaped cells in the mucosa were immunoreactive for PKCalpha and PKCgamma and in the muscle layers similar cells had PKCgamma-IR and PKCtheta-IR. The spindle-shaped cells were similar in morphology to interstitial cells of Cajal. Western analysis and RT-PCR confirmed the presence of the PKC isoform proteins and mRNA in the tissue. We conclude that there is cell-type specific expression of different PKCs in enteric neurons and intestinal muscle in human tissue, and that there are strong similarities in patterns of expression between laboratory animals and human, but some clear differences are also observed.

Social relationships are essential for maintaining human mental health, yet little is known about the brain mechanisms involved in the development and maintenance of social bonds. Animal models are powerful tools for investigating the neurobiological mechanisms regulating the cognitive processes leading to the development of social relationships and for potentially extending our understanding of the human condition. In this review, we discuss the roles of the neuropeptides oxytocin and vasopressin in the regulation of social bonding as well as related social behaviors which culminate in the formation of social relationships in animal models. The formation of social bonds is a hierarchical process involving social motivation and approach, the processing of social stimuli and formation of social memories, and the social attachment itself. Oxytocin and vasopressin have been implicated in each of these processes. Specifically, these peptides facilitate social affiliation and parental nurturing behavior, are essential for social recognition in rodents, and are involved in the formation of selective mother-infant bonds in sheep and pair bonds in monogamous voles. The convergence of evidence from these animal studies makes oxytocin and vasopressin attractive candidates for the neural modulation of human social relationships as well as potential therapeutic targets for the treatment of psychiatric disorders associated with disruptions in social behavior, including autism.
Animal studies point to the role of two neuropeptides-oxytocin and vasopressin-in the regulation of affiliative behaviors including mating, pair-bond formation, maternal/parenting behavior, and attachment. These findings may have important implications for understanding and treating clinical disorders marked by social deficits and/or disrupted attachment. This review focuses on advances made to date in the effort to forge links between basic and clinical research in the area of neuropeptides and social behavior. The literature on oxytocin and its involvement in stress response, affiliation, and prosocial behavior is reviewed, and the implications of these findings for such disorders as autism as well as other social and stress-related disorders including social phobia, post-traumatic stress disorder, and some personality disorders are considered. Finally, unresolved issues and directions for future research are discussed.
Social conflict models have been proposed as a powerful way to investigate basic questions of how brain and behavior are altered by social experience. Social defeat, in particular, appears to be a major stressor for most species, and in humans, this stressor is thought to play an important role in the onset of a variety of psychiatric disorders including depression and post-traumatic stress disorder. Aggressive experience, on the other hand, may promote disorders involving inappropriate aggression and violence. Current research using animal models of social conflict involves multiple levels of analysis from genetic and molecular to systems and overt behavior. This review briefly examines a variety of these animal models of social conflict in order to assess whether they are useful for advancing our understanding of how experience can shape brain and behavior and for translating this information so that we have the potential to improve the quality of life of individuals with mental illness and behavioral disorders.
Cell cycle progression and thus proper cell number is essential for normal development of organs and organisms. Craniofacial tissues including the secondary palate are vulnerable to disruption of cell cycle progression and proliferation by many chemicals including mycotoxin, secalonic acid D (SAD), glucocorticoids, retinoic acid and 2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzodioxin. Induction of cleft palate (CP) by SAD in mice occurs from a reduction in the size of developing palatal shelves. This is associated with an inhibition of proliferation of murine and human embryonic palatal mesenchymal (MEPM and HEPM) cells as well as a G1/S block of cell cycle. In murine embryonic palates and HEPM cells, SAD inhibited G1/S-phase-specific cyclin-dependent kinase (CDK)2 activity, reduced the level of cyclin E and increased the level of the CDK2 inhibitor, p21. These results, together with those from other laboratories, suggest that common cell cycle protein targets (biomarkers), relevant to the pathogenesis of CP by multiple chemical exposures, that can form the basis for the diagnosis and the development of preventive strategies, are likely to exist.
Huntington's disease (HD) is a neurodegenerative disorder caused by a CAG-repeat expansion in the huntingtin (IT15) gene. The striatum is one of the regions most affected by neurodegeneration, resulting in the loss of the medium-sized spiny neurons. Traditionally, the large cholinergic striatal interneurons are believed to be spared. Recent studies demonstrate that neuronal dysfunction without cell death also plays an important role in early and mid-stages of the disease. Here, we report that cholinergic transmission is affected in a HD transgenic mouse model (R6/1) and in tissues from HD patients. Stereological analysis shows no loss of cholinergic neurons in the striatum or septum in R6/1 mice. In contrast, the levels of mRNA and protein for vesicular acetylcholine transporter (VAChT) and choline acetyltransferase (ChAT) are decreased in the striatum and cortex, and acetylcholine esterase activity is lowered in the striatum of R6/1 mice already at young ages. Accordingly, VAChT is also reduced in striatal tissue from patients with HD. The decrease of VAChT in the patient samples studied is restricted to the striatum and does not occur in the hippocampus or the spinal cord. The expression and localization of REST/NRSF, a transcriptional regulator for the VAChT and ChAT genes, are not altered in cholinergic neurons. We show that the R6/1 mice exhibit severe deficits in learning and reference memory. Taken together, our data show that the cholinergic system is dysfunctional in R6/1 and HD patients. Consequently, they provide a rationale for testing of pro-cholinergic drugs in this disease.

Relapsing fever (RF) is a spirochetal infection characterized by relapses of a febrile illness and spirochetemia due to the sequential appearance and disappearance of isogenic serotypes in the blood. The only difference between isogenic serotypes is the variable major outer membrane lipoprotein. In the absence of specific antibody, established serotypes cause persistent infection. Studies in our laboratory indicate that another consequence of serotype switching in RF is a change in neuroinvasiveness. As the next step to elucidate this phenomenon, we studied the interaction of the neurotropic Oz1 strain of the RF agent Borrelia turicatae with the cerebral microcirculation. During persistent infection of antibody-deficient mice, we found that serotype 1 entered the brain in larger numbers and caused more severe cerebral microgliosis than isogenic serotype 2. Microscopic examination revealed binding of B. turicatae to brain microvascular endothelial cells in vivo. In vitro we found that B. turicatae associated with brain microvascular endothelial cells (BMEC) significantly more than with fibroblasts or arachnoidal cells. The binding was completely eliminated by pretreatment of BMEC with proteinase K. Using transwell chambers with BMEC barriers, we found that serotype 1 crossed into the lower compartment significantly better than serotype 2. Heat killing significantly reduced BMEC crossing but not binding. We concluded that the interaction of B. turicatae with the cerebral microcirculation involves both binding and crossing brain microvascular endothelial cells, with significant differences among isogenic serotypes.
The ubiquitously expressed serine/threonine-specific protein phosphatase 2A (PP2A) is prominent in brain where it serves a wide range of functions under both physiological and pathological conditions. PP2A holoenzymes are composed of a catalytic subunit and a tightly complexed scaffolding subunit. This core enzyme associates with regulatory subunits of the B/PR55, B'/PR56/PR61, B''/PR72 and B'''/PR93/PR110 families. We previously determined distribution and expression levels of the four members of the B/PR55 family in brain, as dysregulation of this subunit family has been specifically implicated in neurodegenerative disorders including Alzheimer's disease. In the present study, we used cell lines widely used in neuroscience research to determine levels of the four PR55 isoforms by qRT-PCR under different experimental conditions. We show that PR55alpha mRNA levels are highest in both HEK293 cells and SH-SY5Y neuroblastoma cells whereas PR55beta levels are lowest. Stepwise neuronal differentiation of SH-SY5Y cells causes the selective upregulation of PR55beta, and to some extent PR55gamma and PR55delta, but not PR55alpha mRNAs. In agreement with the qRT-PCR analysis, neuronal differentiation does not alter PR55alpha protein levels, whereas interestingly, PR55beta and PR55gamma protein levels are reduced when compared to undifferentiated cells. Our data point at specific roles for distinct regulatory B/PR55 subunits of PP2A in neuron-like cells with PR55alpha being the major isoform.


The rate at which individuals are capable of processing information is considered a sensitive indicator of brain dysfunction, particularly among clinical populations whose neurocognitive impairments generally are considered relatively mild in nature. Assessment of information processing speed often is confounded, however, by comorbid impairments in other constructs of neurocognition, including attentional capacity, visuospatial perception, language, immediate memory, and motor speed/coordination. This investigation examined the effect of controlling for various potential confounders on the strength of associations among several potential measures of information processing speed. Participants were 64 patients diagnosed with clinically definite multiple sclerosis. Analysis indicated consistent significant and positive associations among measures of processing speed, which generally persisted despite simultaneous statistical control of potential confounding factors. Results imply that examined confounding variables are similarly related to the measures of processing speed. Therefore, any of the measures of information processing speed considered in this study may be used as a proxy for the more direct measure of this construct derived from the Sternberg Memory Scanning Test.
To investigate the neuronal losses of hens' spinal cords in the model of organophosphate-induced delayed neuropathy (OPIDN) and to analyze the impact of apoptosis on the pathogenesis of OPIDN. Adult hens were challenged with triorthocresyl phosphate (TOCP) at a single dose (750 mg/kg). Neuronal losses in the 3rd lumbar spinal cord (L3) were assessed by light-microscopy and electron-microscopy methods at different days post exposure, respectively. The typical OPIDN signs were seen in the TOCP-exposed hens at about 9th day. The number of large nerve cells declined gradually. And these cells were verified as neurons by immunostained with neuronal marker NeuN. The expression of FasL reached proximal at about 9th day, decreased from 14th day. Neurons in TOCP exposed groups displayed degenerative morphologies in electronic microscopy. Some neurons showed apoptotic-like ultrastructure profiles at 5th day. The nuclear membrane was complete with chromatin condensed to the margins of nuclear membrane like a crescent-shaped body. Mitochondria morphologic changes appeared early (5 d) following exposure to TOCP, and developed in a time-dependent fashion. Apoptosis might be involved in the development of OPIDN, and play a role in the pathogenesis of OPIDN.
Impulsiveness and self-control are two antagonistic choice patterns. Whereas impulsive decisions can be exemplified by the preference for a small, immediate over a large, delayed reward, self-control can be characterised as the opposite preference order. This review focuses on current developments in investigating the neuroscience of impulsiveness and self-control, with particular emphasis on the neuroanatomy, psychopharmacology, and electrophysiology of this class of decision making. The role of the avian forebrain in representing and processing temporal reward discounting - a chief psychological mechanism responsible for producing impulsiveness - is especially highlighted. In addition to its role in impulsive decision making, the avian forebrain also appears to be involved in processing the key functions required for action- and self-control. In particular, recent electrophysiological studies indicate that single forebrain neurons reflect aspects of response omission strategy and the temporal scheduling of response withholding when execution of action needs to be controlled. In conclusion, the significant advances in this field of research may help to explain neuropathologies that are characterised by exaggerated impulsivity, or lack of self-control, as for instance attention deficit disorders, frontal lobe syndrome, drug addiction, or pathological gambling.
Drug-related cues have been shown to take effects on behavioral performance and physiological parameters such as event-related brain potentials (ERPs). In the present study we obtained EEG data during a modified Stroop task and during a color matching task using smoking related and neutral words (nicotine Stroop) in smokers and non-smoking controls. We assumed that in smokers smoking-related word meanings would interfere with color matching, and that this should be reflected in an ERP activation pattern comparable to that induced by the Stroop task. In smokers and non-smokers the classic Stroop-related interference effect of longer reaction times in the incongruent condition could be observed. This interference effect in both groups was related to a late posterio-central relative negativity and a right frontal relative positivity in the incongruent compared to the congruent condition. The behavioral data in the color matching task (nicotine Stroop) derived from both groups did not show a comparable interference effect related to the use of drug-related words. However, in smokers the smoking-related words elicited ERP activation patterns comparable to those evoked by the Stroop interference task. The ERP results are discussed as possibly reflecting a modulation of color processing of smoking-related words in smokers. The results imply an interference, but also attention enhancing, effect of smoking-related words in smokers, which maybe associated with addiction memory and enhanced sensitivity for drug-cues. Therefore, the addiction memory driven interference effect might be counteracted by performance enhancement induced by the same nicotine cues.

Conceptually, the irritable bowel syndrome (IBS) has been considered a brain-gut functional disorder, but this paradigm is under serious challenge. There is increasing evidence that organic disease of the gastrointestinal tract can be identified in subsets of patients who fulfil the Rome criteria for IBS. Evidence for subtle inflammatory bowel disease, serotonin dysregulation, bacterial overgrowth and central dysregulation continue to accumulate. The underlying causes of IBS remain to be adequately identified, but postinfectious IBS is a clear-cut entity. Furthermore, a genetic contribution to IBS also seems likely. Diagnosis continues to be based on the symptom profile and the absence of alarm features. A heightened awareness of coeliac disease masquerading as IBS is becoming accepted. Management remains largely based on symptomatic rather than on disease-modifying therapy, but this is likely to change in the near future. Here, recent advances in the pathophysiology and management of IBS are considered.
